460

UNITED STATES V. DENVER PAC. RAILWAY CO.

Fifthly. "Expenses

of land department."

[Sup. Ct.

This item is not

allowable.
Sixthly. "Interest on funded debt prior to government lien."
For the reasons expressed in the case of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, this item is not allowable, though the interest annually accruing on the first-mortgage bonds issued
upon the first 393-5 miles of the road is payable out of the net
earnings before the five per cent due the government.

Seventhly. "Fifty per cent government earnings withheld."
This, as explained in the previous opinion, is not allowable to
be charged as an expense.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause ordered to be remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. DENVER PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
The Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company is not liable for the debt
incurred by the Kansas Pacific Railway Company on account of subsidy
bonds; and although it is bound to perform the government service stipulated
by the Pacific Railroad acts at the rates therein prescribed, and is subject to
their provisions, so far as they are applicable to it, no part of the compensation due it for such service can be retained by the 'United States.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

:The Attorney-aeneral and Hr.Joseph K. He Cammon for the
appellant.

Xr.John P. Usher and Hr. S. I. Sanderson, contra.
Mit. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision in this case is controlled by United States v.

Kansas Pacific Bailway Company, supra, p. 465. By virtue of
the act of March 3, 1869 (15 Stat. 324), the latter company,
under the name of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, was "authorized to contract with the Denver
Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company, a corporation existing
under the laws of the Territory of Colorado, for the construc-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. DENVER PAC. RILWAY G0o.

461

tion, operation, and maintenance of that part of its line of railroad and telegraph between Denver City and its point of connection with the Union Pacific Railroad, which point shall be
at Cheyenne, and to adopt the road-bed already graded by said
Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company as said line,
and to grant to said- Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph
Company the perpetual use of its right of way and depot grounds,
Oand to transfer to it all the rights and privileges, subject to all
the obligations, pertaining to said'part of its line."
By the same act it was further enacted as follows: 2. And be it further enacted, that the said Union Pacific
Railway Company, Eastern Division, shall extend its railroad and
telegraph to a connection at the city of Denver, so as to form with
that part of its line herein authorized to be constructed, operated,
and maintained by the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph
Company, a continuous line of railroad. and telegraph from Kansas
City, by way of Denver,, to Cheyenne."
" SECT.

"SECT. 3. And be it further enacted, that said companies are

hereby authorized to mortgage their respective portions of said
road, as herein defined, for an amount not exceeding $832,000 per
mile, to enable them respectively to borrow money to construct the
same; and that each of said companies shall receive patents to the
alternate sections of land along their respective lines of road, as
herein defined, in like manner and within the same limits as is provided by law in the case of lands granted to the Union Pacific
Railway Company, Eastern Division: -Provided,that neither of
the companies hereinbefore mentioned shall be entitled to subsidy,
in United States bonds under provisions of this act."
The arrangement which was thus provided for and authorized, having been made between the two companies, and each
having constructed its particular portion of the road, the government claims that the subsidy bonds granted to the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company upon the first 398-i miles of its
road, are a lien upon the whole line to Cheyenne, no matter
who built it, if built under the authority and powers given
to that company; and that five per cent of the net earnings of the entire line are applicable to the payment of said
bonds.

462

UNITED STATES v. DENVER PAC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

In United States v. Kansas Pacific Railway Company (supra,
p. 455), we held that the lien of the bonds referred to only
extends to the road in respect of which they were granted, and
not to the extension of it west of the one hundredth meridian.
Of course, that decision controls the present case.
Other reasons might be assigfhed why the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company is not liable to pay the five per
cent in question, but it is unnecessary to adduce them. The"
company is bound, of course, to perform the government service
stipulated for by the sixth section of the act of 1862, being paid
therefor at the rates therein prescribed; and is bound by such
other provisions of the act of 1862 and the various supplementary and amendatory acts, as are applicable to it.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE.- At a subsequent day of the term, Mn. JUSTWen BRADLEY remarked:
Since delivering the opinion in this case, our attention has been called to the fact
that, whilst affirming generally the judgment of the court below, we did not expressly pass upon the question of the right set up by the government to retain one
half of the amount of compensation due from it to the claimant for the transportation of mails and other public property. This point was not overlooked in
rendering our judgment in the case. We cannot conceive on what principle the
retention can be claimed, since the object of retaining the compensation for such
services, or any portion thereof, as expressed in the sixth section of the act of
1862, was to apply the -nount so retained to the debt due to the government for
subsidy bonds granted to the companies that should receive the same. But the
claimants in this case received no such bonds, and we decided that neither the
company, nor its railroad or property, is liable in any way for the payment of
any debt incurred for such bonds received by the Kansas Pacific Railway Company. Consequently there is no room for the application of the right of retention in this case, and the judgment of the Court of Claims was properly rendered
for the whole amount of such compensation due.

