BURT V. PANJAUD.

[Sup. Ct.

BURT v. PANJAUD.
1. An error committed in overruling an objection to a juror as legally disqualified is cured, where it appears affirmatively that he was not a member of
the panel which tried the case, and it does not appear that by his exclusion
therefrom the party's right of challenge was abridged.
2. A person offered as a juror is not compelled to disclose under oath his guilt
of a crime which would work his disqualification. If he declines to answer,
the objecting party must prove such disqualification by other evidence.
2. In ejeetment, or trespass quare clausum fregit, actual possession of the land
by the plaintiff, or his receipt of rent therefor, prior to his eviction, is
prima facie evidence of title, on which he can recover against a mere
trespasser.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. H. Bisbee, Jr., for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. James X. Baker, contra.
MIR. JUSTIOE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of St. John's County, Florida, by Maria M. Panjaud, to
recover the possession of two lots or parcels of land in the city
of St. Augustine. The suit was subsequently removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. The defendant set up no
title whatever to the lots, nor, as far as the record shows, did
he even rely upon the Statute of Limitations, although he bad
been in possession of the demanded premises for several years
before the commencement of the suit. Judgment was rendered against him, and he sued out this writ of error.
A bill of exceptions presents the errors we are called upon
to examine.
It appears that, before the jury was sworn to try the case,
one of the panel, Henry Holmes, was sworn on his voire dire,
and was asked whether or not he had aided or abetted the late
rebellion againstthe United States, when. he was told by the
presiding judge that it was optional with him whether he
would answer the question or not; and said Holmes declined
to answer. The defendant excepted to this ruling, and then

Oct. 1878.]

BURT V. PANJAUD.

moved that Holmes be excluded for cause, which the court
overruled, and defendant excepted again.
It appears affirmatively that Holmes was not sworn as one
of the jury, and no reason is given for it.
1. We are of opinion that, since Holmes did not sit on the
jury, no harm was done to defendant. The object of both
motions was to exclude him as one incompetent to sit. It is
immaterial to the defendant how this 'vas brought about. It
is possible that if defendant had shown affirmatively that he
was excluded by reason of his peremptory challenge, and that
in doing so the exercise of his right of peremptory challenge
had been abridged, the result might be otherwise. It is sufficient to say that the record does not show that he was on the
jury, but in fact that he was not, or that in getting rid of him
any right of defendant was abridged or lost.
2. But we are further of opinion that a juror is no more
than a witness obliged to disclose on oath his guilt of any
crime, or of any act which would disgrace him, in order to test
his qualification as a juror. The question asked him, if answered in the affirmative, would have admitted his guilt of the
crime of treason. Whether pardoned by a general amnesty or
not pardoned, we think the crime was one which he could not
be required to disclose in this manner. Nor would this ruling
deprive the party of his right of challenge. Like a conviction
for felony, or any other disqualifying circumstance, the challenger was at liberty to prove it by any other competent
testimony.
He did not offer to do this, and as the juror's incompetency
was not proved, the court was not bound to exclude him.
All the other exceptions relate to the insufficiency of plain.
tiff's title to recover, it being conceded that defendant showed
none in himself.
It is true that plaintiff does not trace her title to any
acknowledged source. But as to lot 4, she produces a deed
from M. C. Mordecai and Thomas Kerr, dated April 30, 1845,
conveying the lot to her; and she proves by a competent witness that there were two houses on this lot, and that she lived
in one or both of them from 1845 to 1847, and that one Solonoa, as agent for plaintiff, returned this property for taxes

BURT V. PANJAUD.

[Sup. Ct.

and paid the taxes from 1857 to 1860, and that the two houses
were occupied.
As regards the other lot of ground, no written evidence of
title is proved, but the tax-collector states that the same Mr.
Solonoa, professing to act for plaintiff, paid the taxes on this
lot as on the other, and that witness leased this lot from him,
professing to act as agent of plaintiff.
On this evidence the court instructed the jury in several
forms, that if they believed the plaintiff had possession of the
lots in suit at the times mentioned, that the presumption was
that she retained possession by herself or tenants until ousted
by defendant, and that her removal from the city of St. Augustine was not necessarily an abandonment of this possession;
and if her possession had continued for seven years, it was
sufficient to enable her to recover against a trespasser or one
showing no right to enter.
We think there was sufficient evidence as to both lots of
plaintiff's possession under claim of ownership. The deed
from Mordecai and Kerr, with her actual residence on lot 4,
and payment of taxes, was clearly sufficient to establish such
possession. So, also, as regards the other lots, the witness
who paid the rent was her tenant? The payment of the rent
to a man who professed to act as her agent bound the tenant
to her as such, and he could not have disputed her title. It
was her possession. This was corroborated by the payment of
taxes and the absence of any proof of abandonment or loss of
possession prior to defendant's tortious entry. It was sufficient for the jury, in the absence of any pretence of right by
defendant.
This principle is so well settled in the law of ejectment and
trespass quare clausumfregit, as to need no citation of authority. It will be found laid down by Mr. Greenleaf in 2 Greenl.
Evid., sect. 311, that either actual possession of the premises or
receipt of rent is prima facie evidence of title in fee; also
sects. 618, 618 a. See also ffutckison v. Perley, 4 Cal. 33;
Nagle v. l.assey, 9 id. 426.
There are no other assignments of error worthy of notice,
and we see no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

