TRANSPORTATION

LINE V. COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

they should pay "on the amount of indebtedness on bond account." This was made a condition of the sale; and they so
agreed, and they agreed to nothing else. This contract is binding upon both parties, and cannot be changed without their
mutual consent. The language of the act is too clear to admit
of doubt. In a statute "where the intent is plain, nothing is
left to construction."
United States v. Fister,2 Cranch, 386.
There is no complaint that payment upon the bonds outstanding has not been regularly made.
We have no doubt as to the merits of the bill. We think
the objection of misjoinder was also well taken. The case was
purely ancillary in its character. The receiver represented the
court which appointed him and the trustees of the internal
improvement fund. Vose and Wagner claimed to own a part
of the outstanding bonds. But that gave them no standing
place in the.litigation. As well might every other holder of
any of the bonds, however small the amount, or how numerous
such holders might be, have been made co-complainants with
the receiver, as Vose and Wagner. The presence of the latter
as such parties was unwarranted, and if permitted, and the
suit had gone on, would have incumbered the record unnecessarily and have led to confusion.
The demurrer was properly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

TRATSPOnTATION LmTE v. COOPER.
A canal-boat laden with coal for transportation, having on board the master,
with his family, is not a "barge carrying passengers," within the meaning of
sect. 4492 of the Revised Statutes, which requires that such a barge, while in
tow of a steamer, shall be provided with "fire-buckets, axes, life-preservers,
and yawls."

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
This suit was brought under the provisions of the statute of
New York, in the Supreme Court of that State, by Hobart
Cooper, as administrator of his wife, to recover damages for
her death, caused by a collision in the port of New York,

Oct. 1878.]

TRANSPORTATION

LINE V. COOPER.

between a schooner, which was in tow of the tug " J. N.
Parker," and a canal-boat loaded with coal, whereof he was
master, having on board his wife and children, and which with
other boats was in tow of the steam-tug "U. S. Grant." The
Eastern Transportation Line owning one tug, and J. J. Austin
the other, were the defendants. Cooper, in the court below,
had a judgment against them. The Eastern Transportation
Line alone appealed to the general term. The judgment was
affirmed there, and subsequently on appeal by the Court of
Appeals. This writ of error was then sued out.
One of the errors assigned is that the court charged the jury
that "there is no law requiring that a canal-boat which is not
used for the purpose of transporting passengers should be provided with life-preservers or life-boats, or any paraphernalia of
that kind." The other errors are grounded upon exceptions to
the charge, which relate to questions not arising under any act
of Congress.
The defendant in error moved to dismiss the writ for want
of jurisdiction, and united therewith, under the amended sixth
rule, a motion to affirm the judgment below.
Mr. William Stanley in support of the motion.
Mr. B. D. Benedict, contra.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE announced the judgment of
the court.
The only Federal question presented in this case is one upon
which we are not inclined to hear an argument. A canal-boat
laden with coal for transportation, having on board the wife
and children of the captain, is not "a barge carrying passengers," within the meaning of sect. 4492, Rev. Stat., which
requires such a barge, while in tow of a steamer, to be provided
with "fire-buckets, axes, life-preservers, and yawls." The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm is granted.
Judgment affirmed.

