Oct. 1878.]

O

ARTELL v. TILGHMAN.

HARTELL

v.

TLGHmAN.

1. A suit between citizens of the same State cannot be sustained in the Circuit
Court as arising under the patent laws of the United States, where the defendant admits the validity and his use of the plaintiff's letters-patent, and a
subsisting contract is shown governing the rights of the parties in the use
of the invention.
2. Relief in such a suit is founded on the contract, and not on those laws.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William Henry Bawle and Mr. H. -D. Connolly for the
appellants.
The court below had no jurisdiction. The parties were all
citizens of the same State. The suit was founded upon a
contract between them, and did not arise under a statute of the
United States. Wilson v. Sandford, 10 How. 99; Hartshorn
v. -Day,19 id. 211; Slemmer's Appeal, 58 Pa. St. 164; Blanchard v. Sprague, 1 Cliff. 288; Goodyear v. Day, 1 Blatcbf.
565; Merserole v. Union Paper Collar Co., 6 id. 856; Goodyear v. Union India-rubber Co., 4 id. 63; Burr v. Gregory,
2 Paine, 426; Hill v. Whitcomb, 1 Holmes, 317; Pulte v. -Derby,
5 McLean, 328; Curtis, Patents, sect. 496.
When the defendant's original use of a machine or a process
for which letters-patent have been granted to another is unlawful, he is prima facie an infringer, and the Federal jurisdictiQn attaches to prevent a violation of a right secured by
the laws of the United States. But where such use is lawful,
he is prima facie not an infringer, and that jurisdiction does
not attach. The rights involved rest solely upon contract, and
it is only when a breach of it is shown that the continued exercise of them can be enjoined.
JiTr. George Harding, contra.
The bill is founded on letters-patent. The relief sought is an
injunction, a discovery, and an account, and not the rescission,
the enforcement, or the construction of a contract of license.
The court below therefore bad jurisdiction. Brooks v. Stolley, 3 McLean, 523; Woodworth v. Weed, 1 Blatchf. 165; Wilson

HARTELL V. TL3HIMAN.

[Sup. 0t.

v. Sherman, id. 538; Woodworth v. Cook, 2 id. 160; Wilson v.
Sanford, 10 How. 99; Pulte v. Der)y, 5 McLean, 336; Day v.
lfartshorn, 3 Fish. 32; Goodyear v. Congress _?ubber Company,
3 Blatchf. 453; Tudson v. Union Rubber Company, 4 id. 66;
-Bloomer v. Gilpin, 4 Fish. 54; Blanchard v. Sprague, 1 Cliff.
288; lerserole v. Union Paper Collar Co., 3 Fish. 483; Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205; Nagic Ruffle Company v. Elm City
Company, 13 Blatchf. 157.
MR. JuSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in which Tilghman, the
appellee, describes himself in his bill as a citizen of that State,
and the defendants as citizens of the same State. It thus appears affirmatively that, if the court had jurisdiction of the
case, it was for some other reason than the citizenship of the
parties; and it is argued by appellants that there is no such
other ground for the jurisdiction.
The counsel for appellee, however, insists that it is "a case
arising under the patent laws of the United States," and
therefore cognizable in the circuit courts of the United States,
on account of the subject-matter of the suit.
Subdivision 9 of section 629 of the Revised Statutes, which
section is devoted to a definition of the powers of that court,
gives it original jurisdiction " of all suits at law or in equity
arising under the patent or copyright laws of the United
States."
This section of the revision is founded on section 55 of the
act of July 8, 1870, which declares that all actions, suits, controversies, and cases arising under the patent laws of the
United States "shall be originally cognizable, as well at law
as in equity, in the circuit courts of the United States ;" and
that those courts shall have power to grant injunctions according to the course and principles of courts of equity, to
prevent the violation of any right secured by patent, on such
terms as the court may deem reasonable; and on a decree for
infringement complainant shall be entitled, in addition to
profits, to the damages he has sustained thereby. The language of the act of 1836 is substantially the same, except as

Oct. 1878.]

HARTELL v. TILGHMAN.

to the damages to be recovered. We are, therefore, to decide
whether this suit is one arising under the patent laws of the
United States, within the meaning of the clause we have
cited.
If a man owning a tract of land, his title to which is a
patent from the United States, should sell or lease that land,
and a controversy should arise between him and his vendee or
lessee as to their rights in the premises, it could not be said
that any suit brought by the vendor to assert his rights was
a suit arising under the land laws of the United States; and
this would be beyond question if the defendant, admitting the
title of plaintiff to the land, should make no other defence
than such as was founded in rights derived from plaintiff by
contract. That is the case before us, with the variance that
plaintiff's title is to a patent for an invention instead of a
patent for land.
His bill begins by a statement that he is the original inventer and patentee of a process for cutting and engraving
stone, glass, metal, and other hard substances. It is the one
known as the sand-blast process.
He then sets out what we understand to be a contract with
defendants for the use by the latter of his invention. He
declares that defendants paid him a considerable sum for the
machines necessary in the use of the invention, and also paid
him the royalty which he asked, for several months, for the
use of the process, which he claims to be the thing secured
to him by patent. He alleges that after this defendants refused to do certain other things which he charges to have
been a part of the contract, and thereupon he forbade them
further to use his patent process, and now charges them as
infringers.
The defendants admit the validity of plaintiff's patent.
They admit the use of it and their liability to him for its use
under the contract. They set out in a' plea the contract as
they understand it, and the tender of all that is due to plaintiff
under it, and their readiness to perform it.
What is there here arising under the patent laws of the
United States? What controversy that requires for its decision a reference to those laws or a construction of them?

HARTELL v. TILGHISAN.

[Sup. Ot.

There is no denial of the force or validity of plaintiff's patent,
nor of his right to the monopoly which it gives him, except
as he has parted with that right by contract.
The complainant's view of the case is that there was a
verbal agreement that he should prepare and put up in defendants' workshop ready for use such parts of the machinery as
were of special use in his invention, for which defendants were
to pay him at all events. That after this was done defendants
should take a license for the use of his invention; that this
license was to be the same in its terms as that given to all
other persons who used the process, and among these were the
right on the part of the patentee to visit the works of the defendants at all times, as well as to inspect their books, with a
view to ascertain the amount of work done on which royalty
was due. Also, that once every year the complainant had a
right to fix the tariff of rates to be paid by defendants, by
increasing it if he so determined, with no other limitation than
that the increase of rates should apply equally to all licensees
of the patent.
It is established by evidence of which there is no contradiction that complainant did furnish and put in place the
machines, for which defendants paid him $649. That complainant also furnished a schedule of the rates of royalty to be
paid on the different kinds of work to which the patented process was to apply, and that defendants made monthly returns
and monthly payments according to this schedule, which were
received by plaintiff without objection. That besides the
machinery purchased of plaintiff, the defendants had expended
about $3,000 in erecting a blower for the use of the sand-blast
of complainant's process.
At this stage of the affair complainant tendered to defendants two blank forms of license to be signed by both parties,
containing the two conditions we have mentioned. After some
fruitless negotiations, defendants refused to sign these papers,
and complainant thereupon, as we have said, forbade them to
use the process, and on their disregard of this admonition
brought his bill in chancery for an injunction, and for an
account of profits and additional damages.
The argument of counsel is that defendants, having refused

Oct. 1878.]

O ARTELL v. TILGHMAN.

to sign the papers tendered thein, are without license or other
authority to use his invention, and are naked infringers of his
rights under the acts of.Congress.
The defendants say that they never agreed to accept a license
with the conditions we have mentioned in them; that they
never agreed to permit complainant's agents to inspect all the
processes of their own works, some of which were valuable
secrets, nor, after they had expended thousands of dbllars in
preparations for the use of his process, to place themselves
under his arbitrary control as to the prices they should pay for
the use of his invention. And they say that when the machines
were in full operation and paid for, and the schedule of rates
had been furnished by complainant and accepted by them, the
contract was complete, and needed no such written a'greement
as the one tendered them for signature.
Such were the pleadings and the principal conceded, facts on
which the court was called to act, and we pause here to consider the question of jurisdiction on the case thus stated.
Burr v. Gregory (2 Paine, 426), one of the earliest cases on
this subject, was a bill to procure a decree that the assignment
of .a patent by Burnap to Gregory was to the extent of threefifteenths for the benefit of complainant, Burr, and to have a
conveyance executed accordingly. Mr. Justice Thompson said
that if the validity of the patent or of the assignment could be
drawn in question, the Circuit Court might have jurisdiction.
But as it was a matter which grew out of the contract, and
there was no averment of citizenship, the amount prayed for,
growing out of the profits, did not vary the case so as to give
jurisdiction. This decision was made before the act of 1836,
but is indicative of the sound doctrine that controversies arising
out of contracts concerning patent-rights did not necessarily
belong to the Federal courts.
The next case in chronological order was founded on the act
of 1886, the language of which, as we have seen, was on this
point preserved in the act of, 1870, and -is embodied in the
Revised Statutes. It is the only authoritative construction of
the statute on that point made by this court, except Littlefield v. Perry (21 Wall. 205), which is in accord with it, and
we think it covers the case under consideration. We refer to

HARTELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Wilson v. Sanford (10 How. 99), and the opinion was delivered
by Mr. Chief Justice Taney.
The complainant was assignee of the Woodward planingmachine patent, and had licensed the defendants to use one
machine upon payment of $1,400, of which $250 was paid
down, and notes payable in nine, twelve, eighteen, and twentyfour months given for the remainder. This license contained
a provision that if either of the notes was not punctually paid
at maturity, all the rights under the license ceased and reverted
to "Wilson, who became reinvested in the same manner as if
the license had never been made." Upon failure to pay the
first two notes, Wilson brought his bill, charging that notwithstanding this, the defendants were using the machine, and
thus infringing his patent. He prayed an injunction, an account, &c.
The bill was dismissed in the court below, and on appeal
to this court the appeal was dismissed because the amount in
controversy did not exceed $2,000. If, however, it had been
a case arising under the patent laws of the United States, no
sum was necessary to give jurisdiction.
The precise question, therefore, to be decided was whether
the suit arose under the patent laws of the United States; and
the Chief Justice, after reciting the clause in the act of 1836
which gives the circuit courts jurisdiction in all such cases,
proceeds to discuss that question in this manner: " The peculiar pivilege," he says, "given to this class of cases was
intended to secure uniformity of decision in the construction of
the act of Congress in relation to patents. Now, the dispute
in this case does not arise under any act of Congress, nor does
the decision depend upon the construction of any law in relation to patents. It arises out of the contract stated in the
bill, and there is no act of Congress providing for or regulating
contracts of this kind. The rights of the parties depend altogether upon common-law and equity principles. The object of
the bill is to have this contract set aside and declared to be
forfeited; and the prayer is, ' that the appellant's reinvestiture
of title to the license granted to the appellees, by reason of the
forfeiture of the contract, may be sanctioned by the court,'
and for an injunction. But the injunction he asks for is to

Oct. 1878.]

HARTELL V. TILGHMAN.

be the consequence of the decree of the court sanctioning the
forfeiture. He alleges no ground for an injunction, unless the
contract is set aside. And if the case made in the bill was a
fit one for relief in equity, it is very clear that whether the
contract ought to be declared forfeited or not in a court of
chancery depended altogether upon the rules and principles
of equity, and in no degree whatever upon any act of Congress
concerning patent-rights. And whenever a contract is made
in relation to them, which is not provided for and regulated
by Congress, th parties, if any dispute arises, stand upon the
same ground with other litigants as to the right of appeal."
Let us see how closely these remarks and the case to which
they related apply to the present case. In that case a contract
was made under which the defendant entered on the use of the
invention. This is also true of the case before us. In that
case it is charged that an act to be performed by the defendant and licensee under the contract was not performed, to wit,
payment of the notes. In the case before us it is alleged in
like manner that the defendants failed to perform part of the
contract, to wit, to sign a license.
In that case the complainant asserted, as in this, that all
right under the contract had ceased, and he was remitted to
his original rights under the patent, and could, therefore, sue
in the Federal court under the statute; but the court held this
to be erroneous, and that the rights of the parties depended on
the contract and not on the statute. Why does not the same
rule apply to the present case? Wilson's case was stronger
than Tilghman's case, for two reasons:1. Because the contract was all in writing, and there was
no dispute about its meaning. Here it was in parol, and there
is not only dispute about its meaning, but the rights of the
parties depend almost wholly upon the points in dispute, which
have no relation to the patent laws of the United States.
2. In Wilson's case there was an express provision in writing
that a failure to pay any note when due forfeited the license
and reinvested Wilson with all his original rights. No such
provision is set up in the contract between Tilghman and the
defendants.
In this case, as in that, the defendants had bought the machine

AIARTELL v. TJLG MAN.

[Sup. Ot.

and paid for it and used it. In this case, as in that, the right
to its further use depended upon the contract, and was to be
determined by its construction and effect. In this, as in that,
the case, in Judge Taney's language, "does not arise under an
act of Congress, nor does the decision depend upon the construction of any law in relation to patents. The rights of
the parties depend altogether upon common-law and equity
principles."
In Goodyear v. Union India-rubber Company (4 Blatchf. 63),
where the licensees had neglected for three years to pay the
royalty which they had agreed to pay, and refused to permit
their books to be inspected, and where one of the prayers of
the bill was that until they had so accounted and paid the royalty due they should be enjoined from the use of the invention,
Judge Ingersoll held that the bill stated no case arising under
the patent laws of the United States, but did not make a case
for relief on the contract. Judge Blatchford stated the doctrine
still more strongly in lIferserole et al. v. Union Paper Collar Co.,
6 id. 356.
In the case of Blanchard v. Sprague (1 Cliff. 288), decided
by Mr. Justice Clifford in 1859, he said: " No dispute arises
in the case under any act of Congress, nor does the decision
depend in any respect on any law of Congress in relation to
patents. On the contrary, it arises entirely out of the agreement, express or implied, for a license, and the rights of the
parties depend altogether upon the ordinary rules of law ...
*What the complainant really claims is that he terminated or
revoked the license under the agreement which previously
existed between the parties, by giving the notice, and that the
respondent subsequently continued the use of the machine
without any stipulation as to the rate of tariff." How precisely descriptive of the case under consideration, in which
Tilghman, claiming that lie has terminated at his own option
the arrangement under which the defendants had been operating, can now sue in the Federal court for an infringement
in violation of the acts of Congress. In the case mentioned
Judge Clifford held otherwise.
To the same purport is Hill v. Wliteomb, decided by Judge
Shepley, and reported in 1 Holmes, 317.

Oct. 1878.]

HARTELL v. TILGHMA.N.

It may be conceded that the case of Brooks v. Stolly (3 McLean, 523), decided by Mr. Justice McLean on the circuit
prior to the act of 1836, is, in some respects, opposed to the
authorities we have cited. But in them it stands alone, and is
not supported by the better reason.
We may be asked, if we concede the complainant's statement
of the verbal agreement to be correct, what remedy has he on
it? The answer is very easy. He can establish his royalty
once every year, and sue at law and recover every month or
every year for what is due. If he desires to assert his right
of examining the works of the defendants, he can, in a proper
case made, compel them to submit to this examination. If
he desires to enforce the agreement for executing a written
contract of license, he can bring a suit in equity for specific
performance, and with or without that specific relief ask the
court to enjoin them from using the patented process until
they execute the agreement and comply with its requirements.
All these and perhaps other remedies are open to him to enforce the contract. He may also file a bill in chancery to have
it annulled or set aside because of the difficulties placed in the
way of its fair execution by the defendants.
Not content, however, with all these remedies, the complainant assumes that he has, under the condition of things he has
proved, the right in himself to abandon the contract, to treat it
as a nullity, and to charge the defendants as infringers, liable
as trespassers under the act of Congress to pay both profits
and damages.
The analogy of an action of ejectment to recover possession
of land in cases of a broken contract of sale is referred to.
The analogy, however, is imperfect and deceptive. That
action is one at law, depending on the existence of the strict
legal title to land in plaintiff, and the doctrine that the right
of possession follows the title. It is a peculiar action, founded
on a peculiar doctrine limited to real estate, and liable to be
defeated in equity by a bill for specific performance and an
injunction.
In the case of a patent, plaintiff does not recover any specific
property, real or personal. He recovers damages or compensation for the use of his monopoly; and if he has made a bargain

HARTELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

with the defendant, his right to rescind or annul it must depend
on all the equitable circumstances of the case.
Here, where he has sold and received a considerable sum for a
machine of no use for any other purpose; where the defendants
have spent several thousand dollars on other machinery, which is
also valueless except in connection with the use of this process;
where defendants have paid and plaintiff received for many
months the royalty which plaintiff established, and are still
ready and willing to continue payment; and where the contract
being in parol the parties differ about one or two of its minor
terms,- we do not agree that either party can of his own volition declare the contract rescinded, and proceed precisely as if
nothing had been done under it. If it is to be rescinded, it can
be done only by a mutual agreement, or by the decree of a
court of justice. If either party disregards it, it can be specifically enforced against him, or damages can be recovered for its
violation. But until so rescinded or set aside, it is a subsisting
agreement, which, whatever it is, or may be shown to be, must
govern the rights of these parties in the use of complainant's
process, and must be the foundation of any relief given by a
court of equity.
Such a case is not cognizable in a court of the United States
by reason of its subject-matter, and as the parties could not
sustain such a suit in the Circuit Court by reason of citizenship, this bill should have been dismissed.
The decree of that court will, therefore, be reversed, with
directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not hear the argument nor take

any part in the decision of the case.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, with whom concurred MR. CHIEF
and MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, dissenting.

JUSTICE WAITE

I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case. I cannot
see the slightest room for doubt as to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. The suit is a bill in equity, which sets up
letters-patent issued to the complainant for a new and useful
improvement in cutting and engraving stone, metal, and glass;

Oct. 1878.]

HARTELL

v.

TILGHMAN.

and complains that the defendants are infringing said patent
by using the said process without any license therefor, and
praying an injunction, and decree for profits and damages. The
bill also states the fact that negotiations had passed'between
the complainant and the defendants for a license to use the
said invention, but that the defendants had failed to comply
with the conditions, and hence had no right to continue the
use; but persisted in doing so. This is the substance of the
bill. It is a clear case, it seems to me, "arising under the patent laws of the United States," and is therefore properly cognizable by the Circuit Court of the United States under sect.
629, art. 9, and sects. 4919 and 4921 of the Revised Statutes,
and the laws from which that article and those sections were
compiled. The cause of action, or ground of relief, is the infringement of the patent. The plaintiff chooses to place himself
on that ground alone. By doing so he runs the risk of any
defence which would show a right to use the invention, whether
license from himself, invalidity of the patent, non-infringement,
or any other proper defence to a suit on a patent. He states
in his bill, as he had a right to do by the rules of equity pleading, what the supposed defence would be, and answers it. This
anticipation of the defence does not change the nature of the
suit in the least. Perhaps he need not have anticipated the
defence, but might have left the defendants to develop it in
their answer. Certainly in that case the character of the defence would not have ousted the court of its jurisdiction. If a
cause of action is cognizable by .the United States court, the
defendant cannot oust that jurisdiction by his defence to the
action. He may defeat the action, but he cannot destroy
the jurisdiction.
It will not do to say that the remedy of the complainant
was a bill for a specific performance of the parol agreement
that the defendants would take a license. Perhaps he had such
a remedy. But he did not choose to pursue it. He waived it
by suing as for an infringement. He chose to take the responsibility of having a right to put an end to the agreement without juridical aid. Having done this, his only remedy was to sue
on the patent as for an infringement. He certainly had a right
to do this. He was not bound to sue for specific perform-

RARTELL v. TILGHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

ance. Nor was he bound to sue for the avoidance of the supposed agreement. It may be that it would have been his
better remedy. It may be that the result of the negotiation
is to create a defence to the suit for infringement, amounting
to a parol leave and license, or a license in law. If so, he has
only made a mistake in suing as for an infringement of his
patent, and may fail in his action. How that may be it is unnecessary now to inquire, since the majority of this court has
decided the case on the question of jurisdiction. But whether
it be so or not, the character of the present suit is not changed,
as a suit for injunction and damages for the alleged infringement.
How, I would ask, could a State court have determined this
suit? Suppose the defence of license, express or implied, had
failed, what would the State court have done? Could it have
taken an account of profits ? Could it have assessed damages
for the infringement? Could it have granted an injunction to
restrain the defendants in the use of the invention? This
would have been a new branch of jurisdiction and inquiry for
it to have assumed. It is too obvious for argument, as it seems
to me, that no State court has, or could rightfully take, jurisdiction of the suit.
It is perfectly well settled, I admit, that where a suit is
brought on a contract of which a patent is the subject-matter,
either to enforce such contract, or to annul it, the case arises
on the contract, or out of the contract, and not under the patent
laws. But where infringement of the patent is the ground of
action, and redress is sought therefor, the case does arise under
the patent laws, and is cognizable in the Federal court, - no
matter what collateral issues may be raised by the defendant.
He may. set up that the patent is void, that he does nbt infringe,
that he has a license, or a release, or what not; the Federal
court is fully competent to try any of the issues thus made.
The case principally relied on by the majority of the court
is that of Wilson v. Sanford, 10 How. 99. But there the bill
prayed to have the license declared void. The Chief Justice
said: "The object of the bill is to have this contract set aside,
and declared to be forfeited, and the prayer is that the appellant's reinvestiture of title to the license granted to the appellees,

Oct. 1878.]

HARTELL V. TILGHMAN.

by reason of the forfeiture of the contract, may be sanctioned
by this court, and for an injunction." In such a case it may
be that relief is properly to be sought in the State court. But
if the question were a new one, I should think that where the
complainant seeks damages for infringement and an injunction against the use of the invention, making that the basis of
his suit, it would not be improper, nor oust the jurisdiction of
the Federal court, to join in such a bill, as ancillary to the
principal relief sought, an application to avoid an inequitable
license held by the defendant. I see nothing incongruous in
the joinder of such matters in the bill. It seems to me that
the views on this subject, expressed in Brooks v. Stolley (3 McLean, 523), are perfectly sound and just. There the complainant had given a license to use a patented invention, determinable
on non-payment of the royalty. On failure to pay he filed his
bill for an injunction and damages, at the same time stating
the granting of the license, and the failure to perform the conditions of it. Mr. Justice McLean said: "It is suggested that,
as the whole controversy in the case arises under the contract
of license, the parties to which being citizens of this State, the
Federal court cannot take jurisdiction. This objection would
be unanswerable, if no right were involved in the controversy
except what arises out of the contract, as, for instance, the Circuit Court could take no jurisdiction under the contract of an
action, merely to recover the sums agreed to be paid by the
defendant; but in the present aspect of the case, it is not limited to the contract. The complainants set up their right under
the patent, and allege that the defendant is infringing that
right; that the license affords no justification whatever to the
defendant. The right then of the complainants to an injunction
is not founded by them on the contract, but on the assignment
of the patent. If the object of the bill were merely to enforce
the specific execution of the contract, the Circuit Court of the
United States could exercise no jurisdiction in the case." See
also Curtis, Patents, sect. 496, to the same purpose, citing this
opinion.
It seems to me, with all due submission, that if we are to have
regard to "the better reason," we shall find it expressed in
these remarks of Mr. Justice McLean.

-

COLBY V. REED.

[Sup. Ct.

It may be laid down, I think, as a general principle, that
where a case necessarily involves a question arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, and cannot be decided
without deciding that question, it is a case arising under said
Constitution and laws, and may be brought, as the law now
stands, in the Circuit Court of the United States, although
other questions may likewise be involved which might be tried
and decided in the State courts. I do not believe in the doctrine that the presence of a question of municipal law in a case
which necessarily involves Federal questions can deprive the
Federal courts of their jurisdiction. It is too narrow a con.
struction of the judicial powers and functions of the Federal
government and its-courts.
But in this case the complainant asks no relief in relation
to the supposed agreement between him and the defendants.
He places himself solely on his rights accruing under the patent and on the defendants' infringement of them. I think,
therefore, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States was undoubted.

COLBY v. REED.
1. Unless the contract so provides, the demand of one of the parties thereto that
the other shall perform his agreement need not be in writing.
2. Where the amount to which the plaintiff is entitled is clear, an action by him
for a breach of the contract will not be defeated solely on the ground that
his demand upon the defendant was in excess of that amount.
3. In such an action the court cannot, unless so authorized by statute, compel
the plaintiff to accept, in mitigation of damages, when tendered to him by
the defendant in open court, the property for the non-delivery of which the
action was brought.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edwin i. Abbot for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Matt. f. Carpenter,contra.

