Oct. 1878.]

EXPRESS

Co. v.

RAILROAD CO.

the duties of his office by reason of what was done by the President or others towards the restoration of the State to its political rights under the Constitution of the United States. From
all that appears in the record, he continued to act during the
whole of his term as general administrator of the county, notwithstanding the changes that were going on in the other departments of the State government. Under these circumstances,
it is so clear that the judgment of the court below was right,
that we grant the motion to affirm.
Judgment affirmed.

EXPRESS COmPANY v. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

A contract between A., a railroad company, and B., an express company, stipulated that B. should lend A. $20,000, to be expended in repairing and equipping
its road, and that A. should grant to B. the necessary privileges and facilities
for the transaction of all the express business over the road, the sum found
to be due A. therefor, upon monthly settlement of accounts, to be applied to
the payment of the loan and the interest thereon. The contract was to continue for one year, when, if the money with interest thereon was not paid, it
was to continue in force until payment should be made. After B. had advanced
the money, and entered upon the performance of the contract, A. conveyed
all its property, including its franchises, to C. in trust to secure the payment
of certain bonds issued by it. Default having been made, in their payment, C.
brought a foreclosure suit, and obtained a decree placing the road in the hands
of a receiver and ordering its sale. The receiver having declined to carry out
the contract with B., the latter, with the consent of the court, brought its bill
in equity for specific performance against him, A., and C. Held, 1. That the
receiver is the only necessary party defendant. 2. That the transaction between
the companies is not a license, but simply a contract for transportation creating no lien, the specific performance whereof would be a form of satisfaction
or payment, which the receiver cannot be required to make.

AP.PEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of North Carolina.
This is a bill in equity, filed June 18, 1875, by the Southern
Express Company, a corporation of Georgia, against the Western
North Carolina Railroad Company, a corporation of North
Carolina, W. A. Smith, and Henry Clews, for the specific performance of a contract entered into Dec. 2, 1865, between the
railroad company and the complainant.

ExPREss Co. v.

RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ot.

The bill alleges that the railroad company was organized for
the purpose of constructing a railroad from Salisbury, North
Carolina, to a point on the Tennessee line; that it completed
that portion of its line between Salisbury and Morganton, and
put it in running order; that the road-bed, rolling-stock, &c.,
became dilapidated during the war, and that the company in
1865 was without the means to repair the road and make it
safe for the transportation of passengers and freight; that the
company, having been unsuccessful elsewhere, applied to the
complainant for a loan or advance of $20,000; that the complainant having agreed to loan or advance that sum in consideration of securing the exclusive privilege of transporting
freights over said road as far as Morganton, and of certain
other advantages, entered, with the advice and consent of the
stockholders of the railroad company, into the following contract with that company: "This indenture of agreement, made and entered into this second
day of December, A. D. eighteen hundred and sixty-five, between
the Western North Carolina Railroad Company, as party of the
first part, and the Southern Express Company, as party of the second part, witnesseth as follows : "Whereas the party of the second part has agreed to loan and
advance to the party of the first part the sum of twenty thousand
($20,000) dollars upon the notes of said railroad company, bearing
interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, which sum is to be
expended in repairs and equipments for said road. And whereas
the party of the first part is desirous of securing the services of an
efficient and responsible agent for the transaction of all of the express business over its road, and is willing to provide the requisite
facilities for the proper transaction of said express business in the
manner and upon the terms hereinafter specified:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of said loan and advance, and
the rents, covenants, and agreements hereinafter made and provided, said party of the first part hereby agrees and binds itself to
grant to the said party of the second part the necessary privileges
and requisite facilities for the transaction of all the express business
over the entire length of their road, extending from Salisbury to
Morganton, in North Carolina, and furnish such facilities by all its
passenger trains running each way over its road as may be necessary to forward without delay all the express matter that may be

Oct. 1878.]

EXPRESS CO. v. RAILROAD

CO.

offered by said party of the second part, and to do all in its power
to promote the convenience of said party of the second part in the
transaction of its express business, both at way and terminal stations.
"Said party of the second part agrees to load and unload said
express matter by its own agents, at its own proper costs and
charges, and save harmless said party of the first part against all
claims for loss and damage to the express matter of the party of the
second part, except that which occurs from the negligence and carelessness of said party of the first part or its agents.
"The said party of the first part agrees to carry free of charge
the messengers in charge of express matter and the officers and
agents of the said party of the second part passing over the road
upon express business. The said party of the second part agrees
to pay to the said party of the first part fifty cents per hundred
pounds for all express matter carried over the road. An account
of the weights of all express matter shall be taken by said party of
the first part whenever they shall see fit to do so, and delivered to
the agent of the party of the first part, weekly or monthly, as may
be desired.
" The accounts for transportation to be made up monthly, and
the sum found to be due to said railroad company for transportation,
at the rate hereinafter specified, shall be applied monthly toward
the payment of said twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars, until the
whole sum, with interest, is paid, after which payments for transportation shall be made by said party of the second part monthly
in cash.
"This contract shall remain in force for the full term of one year,
from the first day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-six. If
the said sum of twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars, with interest
thereon, shall not have been repaid to the said second party at the
expiration of said one year, this contract shall continue in force
for a further period, and until the whole of said twenty thousand
($20,000) dollars, with interest thereon, shall have been repaid.
'And the said party of the first part hereby covenants and agrees
that it will not furnish express privileges over said road to any
other parties during the existence of this contract on any more
favorable terms than those herein made with the said party of the
second part, both as to rate of transportation paid, advance pay.ments, and total amount paid per annum. It is mutually covenanted and agreed by the parties hereto that any other contracts
that may now exist, whether verbal or written, for express service
VOL. IX.

13

EXPRESS

Co. v.

RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. t

between the parties hereto, shall terminate and cease on the thirtyfirst day of December, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, at which time
this contract shall take effect.
"In witness whereof, the parties to these presents have hereunto
set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
"Ton R. CALDwELL,
"H. B.

"Pres't W. N. C. R. R. Co.
PLANT,

"P res't Southern Express Company."

The bill then alleges that the $20,000 was paid in compliance
with the contract, and that shortly thereafter the complainant
entered upon the road, transported freight according to the
terms of the contract, kept regular accounts and exhibited
them to the company, which were always approved, and it
continued to act under said contract until July, 1873; that
in 1870 the railroad company conveyed to Tod IR. Caldwell
and Henry Clews, as joint tenants, and to the survivor of
each, - the former of whom has since deceased, - all its real
and personal property, including its franchises, in trust, to
secure a large number of its bonds then about to be issued;
that $1,400,000 of said bonds were sold or hypothecated, and
came into the hands of persons unknown to the complainant,
but for much less than their value and not by a bona fide sale;
that, notwithstanding, the alleged creditors of the company
instituted foreclosure proceedings in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of North Carolina, and
in 1873 obtained a decree ordering the sale of all the property
of said company; that the defendant, Smith, having in that
suit been appointed receiver of the company, forbade the complainant, in July, 1873, from further using the cars of the
company, unless upon conditions whereby said contract was
virtually surrendered or ignored; that thereupon the complainant was compelled to abandon said railroad, although
the money so loaned, with a portion of the interest thereon, is
still due and unpaid. It then alleges that the suit is brought
with the -consent of said court, and with the privilege of
making such parties defendant as might be deemed necessary for that purpose; that the trustees in the mortgage to
secure the bonds of the railroad company had express notice

Oct. 1878.]

EXPRESS CO. V. RAILROAD CO.

of the contract when they accepted the trust, and that it was
claimed by the complainant as an existing lien; that the substance of said contract had been published separately at the
instance of the stockholders of the railroad company, and was
well known to its creditors and to the purchasers of its bonds
at the time, and especially to the defendant Smith; and that
the railroad company having conveyed away its property, and
being in part insolvent, the violation of the contract cannot be compensated by any damages which would be recovered at law. The bill therefore prays for a decree compelling
the railroad company to specifically perform its contract, and
for such other and further relief as the nature and circumstances of the case may require, and for process against the
defendants.
The charter of the railroad company granted in February,
1855, is annexed to the bill and made a part thereof. Its
twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sections are as follows "SECT. 25. Be it further enacted, that the said company shall
have the exclusive right of conveyance, transportation of persons,
goods, merchandise, and produce over the said railroad, to be by
them constructed, at such charges as may be fixed on by the board
of directors.
" SECT. 26. Be it further enacted, that said company may, when
they see fit, farm out their right of transportation over said railroad, subject to the rules above mentioned; and the said company
and every one who may have received from it the right of transportation of goods, wares, and merchandise over the said railroad,
shall be deemed and taken to be a common carrier, as respects all
goods, wares, produce, and merchandise intrusted to them for
transportation."

At rule-day in July, 1875, the writ of subpcena was returned
executed, and the cause continued until the October Term,
-when it was ordered that the commissioners in possession of
the road in the western district of North Carolina, and Howerton, president of the company, be notified to appear and
answer or demur to the bill of complaint at rule-day in January, 1876. The commissioners appeared and demurred. The
demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. The express
company then brought the case here.

EXPRESS CO. v. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. 0t.

Mr. Clarence A. Seward for the appellant.
The bill avers that the trustees in the mortgage had notice
of the existence of the contract between the companies, and
this fact is admitted by the demurrer. Caldwell, who executed
the contract, was also one of the trustees in the mortgage, and
he, therefore, as trustee, knew that he had executed the contract as president. -Ex parte .ogers, 8 De G., M. & G. 271;
Veetjen v. St. Paul, &c., 4 Hun (N. Y.), 529. Notice to him
was, in judgment of law, notice to all the trustees. Smith v.
Smith, 2 Cromp. & AL.230; Willes v. Greenhill,4 De G., F. &
J. 147; Mandeville v. Beed, 13 Abb. (N. Y.) Pr. 173.
As between the two companies the contract was valid. It
was lawful for the express company to agree to look for its
remuneration to the fund arising from the transportation of

its freight over the road of the railroad company; and having
made an agreement so to resort to such fund, equity would
compel it to perform such agreement, and restrain it from prosecuting a suit at law.
The railroad company having authorized the express company to carry its freight, and specifically appropriated the
moneys for such transportation when they came to the
hands of the express company to the repayment of the loan,
thereby constituted a fund in the hands of the express company, which the railroad company could not impair, divert, or
waste. Ktetchum v. Union Pacific, 4 Dill. 78; Bird v. Hall, 30
Iich. 37.
The contract created as between the companies an equitable
lien upon the right of transportation, and upon an accruing
fund, which equity will enforce as against all parties having
notice thereof. Groton v. Gardiner,11 ER. I. 626; Smithurst
v. Edmunds, 14 N. J. Eq. 408; Butt v. Bllett, 19 Wall. 544;
Pennock v. Coe, 23 How. 117; Dunham v. Railway Company,
1 Wall. 254. If it may mortgage the property per se, no good
reason is perceived why it may not, upon the use of the property, create an equitable lien which can be enforced against all
subsequent purchasers who had notice of its existence.
The contract was a license for the enjoyment of the occupancy of way and terminal stations, and of the vehicles of the
railway company while in transit. Such license was executed

Oct. 1878.]

EXPRESS CO. v. RAILROAD CO.

by the express company so far as an advance payment of rent
was concerned. The payment is called rent in the contract.
Such license could not be revoked by the railroad company,
or by those who purchased, or had notice prior to the attachment of their interest of the existence of such license. Winter v. Brockwell, 8 East, 308; Taylor v. Waters, 7 Taunt. 374;
Wood v. Lake, Say. 103; Ameriscoggin Company v. Bragg, 11
N. H. 108.
The owner in fee of land may, by covenant, impose upon
it any burden, not inconsistent with his general right of ownership, which is not in violation of public policy, and does
not injuriously affect the rights or the property of others.
Van Rensselaer v. Albany, 1 Hun (N. Y.), 507. Here the
railroad company, by an instrument under seal, and without
violating public policy, imposed upon its road the burden
of occupancy of its stations and vehicles by the express
company for a specific period, at a designated rent paid in
advance.
As long as the owner of the fee retains the title in himself, his covenants and agreements respecting the use and
enjoyment of his estate will be binding on him personally.
A purchaser with notice is bound to perform them. Parkerv.
Nightingale, 6 Allen (Mass.), 344.
A court of equity can grant the relief prayed for not only
by injunction, but by a decree for specific performance. Irechanies' Bank of Alexandria v. Seton, 1 Pet. 299; Clark v.
Flint, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 231 ; Barnes v. Barnes, 65 N. C. 261 ;
Parker v. Winnipiseogee Company, 2 Black, 545; Kirkpatrick
v. Peshine, 24 N. J. Eq. 206; Trustees v. Lynch, 70 N. Y.
440; Laning v. Cole, 3 Green (N. J.), Ch. 229; Shirman v.
Morris Company, 27 N. J. Eq. 264; .Errington v. Aynesley,
2 Bro. C. C. 341; Phillips v. Berger, 2 Barb. (N. Y.) 608;
Withy v. Cottle, 1 Sim. & St. 174; Adderley v. ]ixon, id. 607;
Story, Eq., sect. 723; Storer v. The Great Western Company,
2 You. & Coll. 48; Wilson v. Furness Company, Law Rep. 9 Eq.
28; Ball v. Coggs, 1 Bro. P. C. 296; Price v. Mayor, 4 Hare,
505; Sanderson v. Cockermouth Company, 11 Beav. 497; Great
Northern Company v. Manchester Company, 5 De G. & Sm. 138;
Greene v. West C]heshire Company, Law Rep. 13 Eq. 44; Hlood

EXPRESS CO. V. RAILROAD C0.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Northeastern Company, 8 id. 666; Raphael v. Thames Valley
Company, Law Rep. 2 Ch. 147; Lytton v. Great Northern
Company, 2 Kay & J. 394; Dorsey v. St. Louis Company, 58
Ill. 65; Lloyd v. London Company, 2 De G. & Sm. 568; Johnstown v. Veghte, 69 N. Y. 16; Amedon v. Harris,113 Mass. 59;
Taylor v. Waters, 7 Taunt. 39; Colt v. Netherville, 2 P. W. 304;
Buxton v. Lister, 3 Atk. 387; Berick v. KYern, 14 Serg. & R.
(Pa.) 267; Thurman v. Clark, 3 Stock. (N. J.) 306; Clavering v. Clavering, Mos. 224; Wilson v. Wilson, 14 Sim. 405,
affirmed 5 H. of L. Cas. 40; Pembroke v. Thorpe, 3 Swans.
436, 443; Nelson v. Bridges, 1 Jur. N. s. 753; Anon., 2 Free.
Ch. 253; Thomson v. Harcourt, 2 Bro. P. C. 415; Odessa
Tramways Co. v. Mendall, 37 L. J. N. s. 275.
A receiver has, prior to a final decree, no larger rights than
those which appertain to the owner of the property sequestered.
If the property in the possession of the owners was lawfully
incumbered, he cannot, sua sponte, and without judicial proceedings, dispute such incumbrance. Receivers v. Patterson,
3 Zab. (N. J.) 283; Hyde v. Lynde, 4 N. Y. 387; Bell v.
Shipley, 33 Barb. (N. Y.) 610; Lincoln v. Pitch, 42 Me.
456.
The railroad company was properly made a defendant. At
the time of suit brought, it was the owner in fee of the right
of way, and the sole owner of the rolling-stock, the right to use
which was granted by the contract. Railroad Company v. Orr,
18 Wall. 471; M"echanics' Bank of Alexandria v. Seton, 1 Pet.
299; Story v. Livingston, id. 857.
Jir. A. S. Merrimon, contra.
MR. JUSTIC, SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill avers that it was filed against the receiver appointed
by the court below, that he was in possession of the railroad,
and that the institution of the suit was by the consent of the
court. Without this latter fact the bill could not have been
filed or maintained. The suit would have been a contempt of
the court which had appointed the receiver, and punishable as
such. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
The citizenship of the complainant corporation is sufficiently
averred. Bxpress Company v. Kountz Brothers, 8 id. 342.

Oct. 1878.]

EXPRESS Co. v. RAILROAD CO.

.199

Such a complainant need not prove its existence, unless the fact
is directly put in issue by the defendant. The Society for the
Propagation,&c. v. The Town of Paulet, 4 Pet. 480.
To the objection that the requisite corporate power of the
complainant is not shown, there are two answers. The contract of a corporation is presumed to be infra vires, until the
contrary is made to appear. 2 Waite, Actions and Defences,
334.
The charter is set out in the record, and forms a part of it.
That leaves no room for doubt upon the subject.
Adequate capacity on the part of the railroad company to
make the contract is to be presumed in like manner.
No party defendant was necessary but the receiver. He was
in the possession of the property and effects of the railroad
company, subject to the order of the court, and could have
specifically performed the contract, or paid back the money
loaned if the court had so directed. The presence of the other
parties was immaterial, and the bill might well have been dismissed as to them. Davis v. Gray, supra; Doggett v. Railroad
Company, supra, p. 72.
The contract between the express company and the railroad
company was that the latter should give to the former the
necessary facilities for the transaction of all its business upon
the road, forward without delay by the passenger trains both
ways all the express matter that should be offered, do all in its
power to promote the convenience of the express company,
both at the way and terminal stations, and carry free of charge
the messengers in charge of the express matter, and the officers
and agents of the express company passing over the road on
express business. The consideration for these stipulations was
a loan by the express company to the railroad company of
$20,000, to be expended in repairs and equipments for the road,
the loan to bear interest at the rate of six per cent per annum,
and the payment of fifty cents per hundred pounds for all express matter carried over the road, to be applied in discharge
of the loan and interest. The contract was to continue for one
year from the first day of January, 1866, and until the principal and interest of the debt should be fully paid. The bill
avers that the receiver had refused to carry out the contract,

EXPRESS CO. v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. or.

and that the principal of $20,000 and a part of the interest
were unpaid.
The enforcement of contracts not relating to realty by a decree for specific performance is not an unusual exercise of equity
jurisdiction. Such cases are numerous in both English and
American jurisprudence. They proceed upon the ground that
under the circumstances a judgment at law would not meet the
demands of justice, that it would be less beneficial than relief
in eqnity, that the damages would not be an accurate satisfaction, that their extent could not be exactly shown, or that the
pursuit of the legal remedy would be attended otherwise with
doubt and difficulty.
Judge Story, after an elaborate examination of the subject,
thus lays down the general rule: "The just conclusion in all
such cases would seem to be that courts of equity ought not to
decline the jurisdiction for a specific performance of contracts
whenever the remedy at law is doubtful in its nature, extent,
operation, or adequacy." 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 728. See also
Stuyvesant v. The Mayor, &c. of New York, 11 Paige (N. Y.),
414; Barr v. Lapsley, 1 Wheat. 151; Storer v. Te Great
Western Railway Co., 2 You. & Coll. 48; Wilson v. Parness
Railroad Co., Law Rep. 9 Eq. 28.
But we need not pursue the subject further, because there is
one provision of the contract in this case which is fatal to the
relief sought. A court of equity never interferes where the
power of revocation exists. Frye, Specif. Perform. 64.
The contract stipulates that after the first year it shall cease
upon the payment of the 820,000 and interest. This might be
made immediately upon the rendition of the decree. The action of the court would thus become a nullity.
There is another objection to the appellant's case which is
no less conclusive.
The road is in the hands of the receiver appointed in a suit
brought by the bondholders to foreclose their mortgage. The
appellant has no lien. The contract neither expressly nor by
implication touches that subject. It is not a license as insisted
by counsel. It is simply a contract for the transportation of
persons and property over the road. A specific performance
by the receiver would be a form of satisfaction or payment

Oct. 1878.]

GODDEN V. KIMMELL.

which he cannot be required to make. As well might he be
decreed to satisfy the appellant's demand by money, as by the
service sought to be enforced. Both belong to the lien-holders,
and neither can thus be diverted.
The appellant can, therefore, have no locus standi in a court
of equity.
Both these objections appear by its own showing. It was,
therefore, competent and proper for the court below, sua sponte,
to dismiss the bill for the want of equity upon its face. Brown
et al. v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37.
-Decree affirmed.

GODDEN V. KMIDELL.
In cases of concurrent jurisdiction, courts of equity consider themselves bound
by the statutes of limitation which govern courts of law ; in many other cases
they act upon the analogy of the limitations at law; but even where there
is no such statute governing the case, a defence founded upon the lapse of
time and the staleness of the claim is available in equity where there has
been gross laches in prosecuting the claim, or long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
*The case was argued by Mr. James i. Johnstonand Mr. John
Scott for the appellant, and by JRKr. Calderon Carlisle and Mr.
George T. Appleby for the appellee.
APPEAL

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Statutes of limitation form part of the legislation of every
government, and are everywhere regarded as conducive and
even necessary to the peace and repose of society. When they
are addressed to courts of equity as well as to courts of law, as
they seem to be in controversies of concurrent jurisdiction, they
are equally obligatory in both forums as a means of promoting
uniformity of decision.
Stale claims are never favored in equity, and where gross laches
is shown and unexplained acquiescence in the operation of an
adverse right, courts of equity frequently treat the lapse of time,

