SUPERVISORS v. GALBRAITH.

[Sup. Ct.

during the term at which the decree is rendered. This implies
some action of the court while in open session, and, to be regular, should be entered on the minutes. Here, although an appeal bond was approved by the Chief Justice of the court and
filed with the clerk during the term, it does not appear to have
been done while the court was actually in session. So far as
the record shows, it was the act of the Chief Justice alone out
of court. The entry on the order-book is simply a direction to
the clerk, by the solicitor of the appellant, to enter an appeal.
It in no way indicates any action whatever either in or by the
court.
Appeal dismissed.

SUPERVISOIIS v. GALBIIAiTII.
1. An act of the legislature of Mississippi, approved Feb. 10, 1860, authorized the
county of Calhoun, among others, to subscribe to the capital stock of a
railroad company, provided that at an election in the county, of which and
of the amount to be subscribedland in what number of instalments, twenty
days' notice should be given, a majority of the qualified electors voting
should be in favor of the subscription. The proposition, -whenfirst submitted, was rejected; but at a second election the vote was in favor of
the subscription. An act, passed March 25, 1871, declared that the bonds
issued in payment of previous subscriptions should be made payable to the
president and directors of the company and their guccessors and assigns.
The bonds were issued Sept. 1, 1871, payable to the railroad company,
or bearer, ten years thereafter, at the agency of the company in the city
of New York. They recite that they are issued in payment of the county
subscription to the capital stock of the company, in pursuance of the
said acts, and in obedience to a vote of the people of the county, at an
election held in accordance therewith. In a suit on the bonds,-Held,
1. That the requirement that they should be made payable to the president and directors of the company, and their successors and assigns, is
only directory; and that the recital therein estops the county from taking
any advantage of the irregularity committed by its servants. 2. That no
place of payment having been designated by the act, it was competent
to make the bonds payable in New York. 3. That as in that State they
could, after being assigned in blank, pass by delivery from hand to hand,
and have all the properties of commercial paper, the result is the same
as if they had been drawn in literal conformity with the statute. 4. That,
in the absence of any prohibition in the act against more than one submission to the electors of the question of making the subscription, the second
vote was not unlawful.

Oct. 1878.]

SUPERVISORS V. GALBRAITH.

2. The fourteenth section of the Constitution of Mississippi, ratified Dec. 1, 1869,
which declares that "the legislature shall not authorize any county, city,
or town to become a stockholder in, or to lend its credit to, any company,
association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city, or town, at a special election, or a regular election, to be held
therein, shall assent thereto," is wholly prospective. It does not abrogate previous acts of the legislature conferring authority to subscribe for stock.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Mississippi.
This was an action brought by William B. Galbraith, a citizen of Tennessee, against the board of supervisors of Calhoun
County, Mississippi, on certain bonds and coupons thereto attached. The bonds are in the words and figures following, except
as to the numbers and amounts, and a copy of one of the coupons
is hereto annexed. They differ only as to the time of payment
and the reference to the bond to which they are attached.

".Bond No.
"COUNTY

-.

OF CAL HOUN, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

[500.
"500.]
"Be it known that the county of Calhoun, State of Mississippi,
is indebted unto and promises to pay the Grenada, Houston, and
Eastern Railroad Company, or bearer, at the agency of said company in the city of New York, two years from the date hereof, five
hundred dollars, lawful money of the United States of America,
with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semiannually on the first day of Mlarch and September of each year,
on the presentation and surrender of the proper coupon hereto
annexed.
"This bond is one of a series of bonds issued and delivered to
the Grenada, Houston, and Eastern Railroad Company by Calhoun
County, to meet and pay off the amount subscribed by said county
to the capital stock of the railroad company aforesaid, in pursuance
of an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, entitled
'An Act to aid in the construction of the Grenada, Houston, and
Eastern Railroad,' approved Feb. 10, 1860, and of an act amendatory thereof, passed March 25, 1871, and in obedience to a vote of
the people of said county at an election held in accordance with the
provisions of said acts.
"In witness whereof, the board of supervisors of said county have
caused the signature of the president of said board to be hereto

SUPERVISORS

v.

[Sup. Ct.

GALBRAITH.

affixed, countersigned by the clerk, with his official seal affixed, and
who have also signed the coupons hereto attached at their office in
Pittsboro', this first day of September, 1871.
(Signed)
"JOEL ABNEY,
"Pres't B'd of Supervisors.
"J. S. R yr,

Clerk."
" Coupon.

"UNITED

STATES OF AmRICA:

[$4.00.

",$4.00.]

"The county of Calhoun will pay to the Grenada, Houston, and
Eastern Railroad Company, or bearer, four dollars at their agency
in the city of New York, on the first day of March, 18-, being six
months' interest on bond No.
(Signed)

"JOEL ABNEY,

".Pres't .B'd Bitpervisors.

"J. S. RYAN, Clerk."
In addition to the plea of nil debet, the defendant filed several special pleas, all of which were demurred to. The demurrers were sustained, and judgment was rendered against the
defendants. They then sued out this -writ. Their assignment
of errors is referred to, and the remaining facts are set forth in
the opinion of the court.
11r. Philip -Phillipsfor the plaintiffs in error.
i1r. TFiley -P. Harris,contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAy1N delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented for our determination in this case is
as to the validity of certain bonds issued and delivered by the
board of supervisors of Calhoun County, in the State of Mississippi, in payment for stock of the 'Grenada, Houston, and
Eastern Railroad Company, for which the supervisors subscribed
in behalf of the county. In the court below they filed numerous pleas, presenting the points of defence upon which they
relied. The pleas were all demurred to, the demurrers were
sustained, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff. Here
the assignments of error are not numerous. We shall respond
as far as we deem necessary without formally restating them.
The act of Feb. 10, 1860, authorized the subscription, pro-

Oct. 1878.]

SUPERVISORS

v.

GALBRAITH.

vided a majority of the voters of the county signified their
approval. That sanction was given, and the stock was subscribed. The amendatory act of March 25, 1871, declared that
when bonds were issued in payment for such stock they should
be " signed by the president of the board of supervisors issuing
the same, and be made payable to the president and directors
of the Grenada, Houston, and Eastern Railroad Company, and
their successors and assigns, and may be assigned, sold, and conveyed with or without guarantee of payment by said president
and directors, or may be mortgaged in like manner, at their
discretion, as they may deem best for the company." The
bonds here in question bore date Sept. 1, 1871, and were payable to "tte Grenada, Houston, and Eastern Railroad CoMpany, or bearer, at the agency of said company in the city of
New York, two years from date." Each bond was for $500,
with interest coupons attached, which matured half-yearly.
On their face is this recital: ",This bond is one of a series of bonds issued and delivered to
the Grenada, Houston, and Eastern Railroad Company by Calhoun
County, to meet and pay off the amount subscribed by said county
to the capital stock of the railroad company aforesaid, in pursuance
of an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, entitled 'An
Act to aid in the construction of the Grenada, Houston, and Eastern
railroad,' approved Feb. 10, 1860, and of an act amendatory thereof,
passed 'March 25, 1871, and in obedience to a vote of the people of
said county at an election held in accordance with the provisions of
said acts."
An objection is made to the form of the bonds. It is said
they should have been made payable to the railroad company
and " their successors and assigns," and not to the company
"or bearer," and it is insisted that this divergence from the
prescribed formula is a fatal defect.
To this there are several answers. The statutory requirement in this particular is only directory. Indianapolis Railroad Co. v. Hurst, 93 U. S. 29; Township of Bocl Creek v.
Strong, 96 id. 271. The defect is one of form and not of substance. The irregularity was committed by the servants of the
county, and the county is estopped to take advantage of it.
Bargate v. Shortridge, 5 Clark, H. L. 297. The recital in the

SUPERVISORS v. GALBRAITH.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

bonds of conformity to the statutes is also conclusive. A buyer
was not bound lo look further. Bigelow, Estoppel, 266; Commissioners of Kinox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539; lforan
v. The Commissioners, 2 Black, 722. No place of payment of
the bonds being designated by the statute, it was competent for
the supervisors to make them payable in New York. 3feyer
v. Muscatine, 1 Wall. 384. The law of the place of performance governed the construction and effect of the contract.
Brabston.v. Gibson, 9 How. 263; Cook v. ilfoffat, 5 id. 295.
By the law of New York such bonds may be assigned in blank,
and any bolder can fill the blank with his own name or other-wise. In the mean time, after such assignment in blank, they
pass by delivery from hand to hand, and have all the properties of commercial paper. Hubbard v. The New York &
Harlem .Tailroad Co., 36 Barb. (N. Y.) 286. The result is,
therefore,, the same that it would have been if they had been
drawn in literal conformity to the statute.
The requirement of the statute in this particular is evidently
the result of inadvertence. It applies to the securities spoken
of the language necessary in a deed intended to vest in a corporation a fee-simple title to real estate. They were obviously
intended to be made negotiable instruments. Mayor of Vicksburg v. Lombard, 51 Miss. 111.
It appears by the record that the proposition for subscription
was twice submitted to the voters. The first time it was rejected; the second, it was approved by a majority. It is contended that the first submission exhausted the power to submit,
and that the second was a nullity. We cannot concur in this
view.
The first section of the act of 1860 gave ample power to the
proper officers (then the board of police, afterwards the board
of supervisors) to subscribe, upon conditions thus expressed: "_Proviled, however, that an election shall be held in the county
for and on account of which stock is proposed to be subscribed by
the qualified electors thereof, at the regular precincts of said county,
twenty days' notice of the time of holding such election, and of the
amount proposed to be subscribed, and in what number of instalments, being first given by the board of police; and if, at said election, a majority of the qualified electors voting shall be in favor of

Oct. 1878.]

SUPERVISORS V. GALBRAITH.

such subscription, then said board shall make such subscription for
and in behalf of the county, for the amount specified, by the president of said board of police, subscribing the amount so specified,
to the capital stock of said company, but if a majoity of those
voting shall be opposed to such subscription, the same shall not be
made.'
The remaining sections provide for the collection of the
amount subscribed, by taxation, the mode of collection, &c., if
the subscription should be made.
There is no limitation as to the time when, or the number
of times, the voters might be called upon to decide the question
of subscription. We cannot recognize any restriction as to the
latter, in this respect, without adding to the statute what it
does not contain. Our duty is to execute the law, not to make
it. Such an interpolation would involve the "judge-made law"
which Bentham so earnestly denounces. If authority be needed
in support of our construction of the clause, it will be found in
The Society, &c. v. New London, 29 Conn. 174.
The present Constitution of the State of Mississippi, ratified
Dec. 1, 1869, declares: "SECT. 14. The legislature shall not authorize any county, city,
or town to become a stockholder in, or to lend its credit to, any
company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such county, city, or town, at a special election, or
regular election, to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error insists that this
section abrogated the act of 1860, and avoids the bonds.
It will be observed that the language of the section is wholly
prospective. It is, in effect, that the legislature shall not, in
the future, authorize any county, city, or town (without the consent of two-thirds of the legal voters) to do either of two things:
1. Become a stockholder in any company, association, or corporation. 2. Lend its credit to any company, association, or
corporation.
The restraint is upon the legislature. It is forbidden to do
thereafter either of the two prohibited things.
The act which authorized the subscription here in question,
and under which it was made, was passed more than nine years

SUPERVISORS v. GALBRAITI.

[Sup. Ct.

before the Constitution took effect. As to this act there is no
room for any doubt or question. It provided for the payment
of the subscription by a tax equal to the amount subscribed.
The amendatory act of 1871, as regards the point under consideration, only changed the mode of payment for the stock.
Instead of payment by a tax imposed for that purpose, it provides "that it shall and may be lawful" for the supervisors to
issue bonds for such sums as "may be deemed necessary to
meet, pay off, and discharge the subscriptions" made theretofore or thereafter under the prior act of 1860.
The eighth section requires the levy and collection of sufficient taxes to pay in due time the amount due upon such subscriptions, or upon the bonds given for their payment.
In neither case was there to be a loan of any kind to the
railroad company, and certainly none of "the credit of the
county."
The constitutional prohibitions do not, therefore,
apply in any wise to this case.
The act of 1871 recognizes the distinction between subscriptions made under it and those made under the act of 1860.
The former permitted subscriptions by towns, which were not
authorized by the latter. In relation to such subscriptions the
constitutional majority of two-thirds of the voters was required.
Our construction of the clause here in question has been given
to like language in constitutions elsewhere, under similar circumstances. There are several adjudications of this court
exactly in point touching the Constitution of Missouri. County
of Henry v. Nicolay, 95 U. S. 619 ; County of Callaway v. Foster, 93 id. 567; County of Scotland v. Thomas, 94 id. 682;
County of Mlacon v. Shores, 97 id. 272. See also The State ex el.
.11o. & 111iss. Railroad Co. v. 1J'_aeon County Court, 41 Mo. 453;
State v. Greene County et al., 54 id. 540; Cass v. -Dillon,2 Ohio
St. 607.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILL R, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and MR.
JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

