Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC. R.R. CO.

44q

Congress passed the law. They are portions of A State's territory, described for the purpose of assessment, not necessarily
political subdivisions for any other purpose. Our conclusion,
therefore, is that the city of Memphis was a district, within the
meaning of the sixth section of the act of 1862 ; and for the
various reasons we have given, we hold, that the objection which
we are now considering to the validity of the appellant's title is.
without foundation. Upon this mainly, if not alone, the court
below appears to have rested, its judgment.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee will be
reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to direct a
dismissal of the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPNY.
i: This case, in all material respects, involves the same questions as Union
Pacfc Railroad Company v. United States (supra, p. 402), and the court
adheres to the conclusion there announced as to the time when the road
must be considered as completed, so as to render the company thereafter
liable to pay annually five per cent of the net earnings of the road for
the purposes mentioned in the sixth section of the act of July 1, 1862.
12 Stat 489.
2. The rulings in that case upon the question of the earnings and expenditures
of the road, and upon the principles by which the amount of net earnings
is to be ascertained and in what manner paid, reafllrmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for- the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Attorney- General and Mr. Joseph K. AecCammon for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. W. Sanderson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the United States against the Central Pacific Railroad Company, to recover five per cent of the
VOL. IX.

29

450

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

net earnings of the railroad belonging to said company, from
the sixteenth day of July, 1869, the date at which it is alleged
that the said railroad was completed, to the thirty-first day
of October, 1874. The road extends from the termination of
the Union Pacific Railroad, at or near Ogden in the Territory of Utah, to the waters of the Pacific; and was constructed
under the provisions of the Pacific Railroad Act of July 1,
1862, and the several acts supplementary thereto. It was originally constructed by two corporations of California, namely,
the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California, and the
Western Pacific Railroad Company; which companies, however, accepted the terms of the said acts of Congress, received
subsidies from the government under the same, and were
finally consolidated into one corporation under and by virtue
of the said acts, by the name of the Central Pacific Railread
Company, which succeeded to all the rights and duties under
said acts of Congress which belonged or appertained to the
original companies.
On the trial, a jury was waived, and the court found the
facts specially; and upon such findings gave judgment for the
defendant. The United States brought a writ of error, and
the case is now here for review.
The case, in all material respects, involves the same questions which have just been disposed of in the case of Union
Pacific Railroad Company v. United States, supra, p. 402.
The same subsidies were granted to the companies in this case,
and upon the same terms and conditions, as in that of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company; the same acts of Congress,
in the main, applying to both. The claim of the government
is founded upon that clause in the sixth section of the act of
July 1, 1862, which declares that "after said road is completed, until said bonds and interest are paid, at least five per
centum of the net earnings of said road shall also be annually
applied to the payment thereof." The allegation of the government is, that the railroad was completed on the sixteenth
day of July, 1869; and that the net earnings of the road from
that time to the thirty-first day of October, 1874, amounted to
the sum of $36,732,702. The defendant denies the allegations
of the bill; and the principal issue at the trial was, the time

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC. R.R. Co.

451

of the completion of the road. The conclusion of the court
from its findings of fact was, that the road'was not completed
until the first day of October, 1874, and, hence, that the government was not entitled to recover.
It is unnecessary to review all the findings. The course
of proceedings was in all respects similar to what took place
in the case of the Union Pacific Railroad Company: similar reports of completed sections by the company under the
oath of its president, similar examination and reports of commissioners, and similar acceptances by the President of the
United States. The seventh finding of the court is as follows : "VII. That as each section of twenty miles or more of the
road was constructed, the president of the company filed a
statement, under oath, in pursuance of the statute, to the effect
that the section, describing it, had been completed as required,
specifying the particulars in the language of the statute, and
asking that the commissioners appointed under the statute
might be notified, and that they might examine and report
upon such section. Upon a favorable report by the commissioners, the President accepted the section provisionally, and
issued to the company the bonds authorized by the statute.
This was the course of proceeding till 1868, when it was
found that the government might advance all the subsidies
upon a road only provisionally accepted in sections, and have
no security for its absolute completion, as a whole, up to the
standard of a first-class road. The question of the propriety
of this course was submitted to the Attorney-General, who
rendered an opinion on Sept. 5, 1868, which was to the effect
that the course before pursued by the government was in accordance with the law, and that the President had authority
to appoint commissioners to review that portion of the road
which had been accepted provisionally, and to refuse a final
acceptance of the road as a whole until all the deficiencies
should be supplied, and that sufficient subsidies might be withheld, or other guaranties required of the company to secure
The opinion is reported in 12 Op.
absolute completion.
Att'y-Gen., at page 477, and is referred to and made a part
of this finding. The President thenceforth acted upon this

452

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

opinion of the Attorney-General, and accepted each section
when provisionally completed, leaving the question of the
absolute completion of the road, as a whole, to be determined upon examination and report of commissioners to be
specially appointed for that purpose."
This opinion had respect both to the Union Pacific and the
Central Pacific roads.
The court then finds that on the 25th of September, 1868,
the President, in pursuance of the opinion of the AttorneyGeneral, appointed a commission of civil engineers to examine
the entire road, so far as then provisionally completed, and
report upon it in accordance -with instructions to be furnished
by the Secretary of the Interior;, that these commissioners
made their report on the 14th of May, 1869, pointing out many
particulars in which the road as constructed failed to come
up to the standard of a first-class road, and estimating that to
supply such deficiencies would require a further expenditure of
$4,493,380; that the Secretary suspended the grant of lands
to the company until further orders, and required it to deposit
with the Secretary of the Treasury $4,000,000 of its first-mortgage bonds, to secure the proper completion of the road, under
a similar agreement to that made by the Union Pacific Railroad Company; that on the 11th of May, 1869, the connecting rail uniting the Central and Union Pacific railroads was
laid, and soon thereafter regular through passenger and freight
trains were placed upon the roads between San Francisco and
Omaha, and have run regularly between said points ever since;
and that on the sixteenth day of July, 1869, and ever since,
said roads have been in fact operated as railroads, and have
been able to carry, and have in fact carried, all passengers,
freights, mails, troops, supplies, and munitions of war offered
for transportation between the eastern terminus of the Central
Pacific Railroad and the Pacific Ocean. The fourteenth finding is as follows: " XIV. That on July 15, 1869, the Secretary of the Interior
transmitted to the President the report, dated May 15, 1869,
of the commissioners appointed to examine and report upon a
section of twenty and three-tenths miles of the Central Pacific
Railroad, this being the last section constructed by said defend-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL

FAC. R.R. -o.

453

ant. In his letter transmitting said report to the President for
his action, the Secretary says: "I respectfully recommend the
acceptance of the same, and that bonds be issued to the company thereon in accordance with the agreement made with the
company, which is to the effect that they deposit their firstmortgage bonds with the Secretary df the Treasury to such
amount as may be deemed necessary to secure the ultimate
completion of the road agreeably to the provisions of the act
approved July 1, 1862.'
" Recommendations in all respects similar to the -last had
been made by the Secretary of the Interior to the President as
to the reports made upon the several preceding sections of the
roads, and a similar approval was indorsed thereon by the
-President. Upon the same day, July 15, 1869, the Secretary
of the Interior made a similar Tecommendation as to the section-commissioner's reports upon the last sections of the Union
Pacific Railroad, in which he recommends a similar provisional acceptance of the section, and adds: ' Provided,however,
that no bonds or patents shall in any event be issued until such
security shall be deposited with the Secretary of the Treasury
necessary to secure the ultimate completion of the road, agreeably to the acts mentioned in my letter to you of the 27th of
May last.'
"IThis recommendation was approved by the President, and
the Secretaries of the Treasury and Interior directed to carry
the same into effect. These constitute the last conditional
acceptances of sections as provisionally completed."
By the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth findings it is found as
follows : "XXIV. That in pursuance of the provisions of said acts of
Congress hereinbefore mentioned, and at the time of the construction, equipment, and provisional acceptance, as hereinbefore stated, of each and every section of said railroad by
either of said railroad companies, the plaintiff issued and
delivered to the said Central Pacific Railroad Company of
California and to its assignee, the Western Pacific Railroad
Company (where the latter was entitled thereto under said
acts), except as in these findings otherwise indicated, when
some portions were temporarily withheld as security for the

454

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ultimate completion of the road, bonds of the United States of
$1,000 each to the amount of forty-eight of said bonds per mile
for each such section for one hundred and fifty miles eastwardly from the western base of the Sierra Nevada mountains,
and thirty-two of said bonds per mile for all of said railroad
constructed east of said last-mentioned point, and sixteen of
said bonds per mile for all of said railroad constructed west of
the western base of the Sierra Nevada mountains.
"XXV. That between the first day of July, 1862, and the
twenty-seventh day of January, 1870, this plaintiff, in pursuance of said acts of Congress, caused to be issued and delivered
to said railroad companies, in the mode and manner and at the
times herein set forth, all except five of said $1,000 bonds.
That the bonds so delivered by plaintiff to said companies
amounted in the aggregate to the sum of $27,850,620."
It was further found that, in pursuance of the joint resolution of Congress, passed April 10, 1869 (as in the case of
the Union Pacific Railroad Company), the board of eminent
citizens referred to in that case, on the third day of November,
1869, made their report respecting the Central Pacific roads,
in which they stated that the amount required to supply deficiencies and complete the work up to the required standard
had been reduced since the last commissioners' report from
$4,498,380, to $576,650; and the Secretary of the Interior
thereupon modified his former order suspending the issue of
patents to lands so as to allow patents for one half the lands to
be issued, and soon after allowed the withdrawal of said firstmortgage and other bonds, still retaining as security the other
half of the lands.
It thus appears that the work of the Central Pacific roads
went on pari passu with the Union Pacific, and on the same
terms and conditions; and that the roads were completed, the
subsidy bonds received, and the collateral securities for the ultimate supply of deficiencies given up at the same time in each
case.
We do not propose to repeat the views which have already
been expressed in the case of the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Our conclusion, with regard to the time of completion
of the road is the same in this case as in that. As this is the

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY CO.

455

only question raised by the record, it is unnecessary to add
any thing further. The question of the amount of earning, and
expenditures, and of net earnings deducible therefrom, was not
reached by the court below, and is not presented to us for the
expression of any opinion. But as we have indicated our vieWs
in the other case, as to the principles on which the amount of
net earnings is to be ascertained, and in what manner they are
to be paid, the court below, on a re-trial, will be governed by
our opinion in that case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

UNITED STATES V. KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COLPANY.
1. The bonds granted by the United States to the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company are not a lien on, nor is the company liable for five per cent
of the net earnings of, that portion of its road west of the one hundredth
meridian.
2. The court adheres to the rulings in Union Pacific Railroad Conpany v. United
States (supra, p. 402), as to the principle which should govern in determining the amount of net earnings. In regard to certain items claimed by
the company as proper deductions from the gross receipts of the road, the
following should be excluded, - money needed to place it in proper repair,
but not actually expended for that purpose; the expenses of the land department; the interest on the funtled debt, which has priority over the lien
of the United States; and the fifty per cent retained by the latter from
the amount due for services rendered to it: and that the following items
should be allowed, provided they were actually paid out of the earnings
of the road, and not raised by bonds or stock, -the equipment account, or
replacing and rebuilding rolling-stock, machinery, &c.; the amounts paid
for depot grounds, and the expenses of same; and the construction account,
or improvements and additions to the trhck, &c.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

