Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY CO.

455

only question raised by the record, it is unnecessary to add
any thing further. The question of the amount of earning, and
expenditures, and of net earnings deducible therefrom, was not
reached by the court below, and is not presented to us for the
expression of any opinion. But as we have indicated our vieWs
in the other case, as to the principles on which the amount of
net earnings is to be ascertained, and in what manner they are
to be paid, the court below, on a re-trial, will be governed by
our opinion in that case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

UNITED STATES V. KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COLPANY.
1. The bonds granted by the United States to the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company are not a lien on, nor is the company liable for five per cent
of the net earnings of, that portion of its road west of the one hundredth
meridian.
2. The court adheres to the rulings in Union Pacific Railroad Conpany v. United
States (supra, p. 402), as to the principle which should govern in determining the amount of net earnings. In regard to certain items claimed by
the company as proper deductions from the gross receipts of the road, the
following should be excluded, - money needed to place it in proper repair,
but not actually expended for that purpose; the expenses of the land department; the interest on the funtled debt, which has priority over the lien
of the United States; and the fifty per cent retained by the latter from
the amount due for services rendered to it: and that the following items
should be allowed, provided they were actually paid out of the earnings
of the road, and not raised by bonds or stock, -the equipment account, or
replacing and rebuilding rolling-stock, machinery, &c.; the amounts paid
for depot grounds, and the expenses of same; and the construction account,
or improvements and additions to the trhck, &c.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

456

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. CtL

Thie Attorney-General and Mr. Josept K. 211c Cammoi for the
plaintiff in error.
MiJr. John P. Usher and .Ir. S. T. Sanderson, contra.
MIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was a suit brought in the court below by the
United States against the Kansas Pacific Railway Company,
to recover five per cent of the net earnings of the road belonging to that company from the time of the completion thereof,
alleged to be the second day of November, 1869, to the thirtyfirst day of October, 1874; the said five per cent being claimed
under the last clause of sect. 6 of the Pacific Railroad Act,
passed July 1, 1862, which has already received consideration
in the cases of the Union Pacific and the Central Pacific Railroad Companies, supra, p. 402, p. 449. The cause was tried
by the court, the facts were specially found, and the conclusion arrived at that nothing was due to the government
upon the alleged claim; and judgment was rendered for the
defendant.
The Kansas Pacific Railway Company was originally chartered in 1855, by the Territory of Kansas, under the name of the
Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad Company, mentioned in the ninth section of the act of 1862, and afterwards,
in 1863, received tlhe name of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, and finally, in 1869, that which it now
bears. By the section referred to, it was authorized to construct a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River,
at the mouth of the Kansas River, so as to connect with the
Union Pacific at the initial point on the one hundredth meridian, "upon the same terms and conditions in all respects as are
provided in this act for the construction of the railroad and
telegraph line first mentioned" (that is, the Union Pacific).
The company accepted the terms of the act, and proceeded
to construct its road, receiving subsidy bonds therefor at the
rate of $16,000 per mile for the whole length of its road tb
the one hundredth meridian, being 393115 miles; all of which
bonds were delivered as the work progressed.
The road
was completed to Sheridan, 405 miles West from the Missouri
State line (the point of commencement), on the second day of

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY

CO.

457

November, 1869, which is the date at which the government
alleges that the road was completed. The authority of the
company to extend its road west of the one hundredth meridian was derived from the ninth section of the act of 1864,
which declared as follows : "Andprovidedfurther, that any company authorized by this act
to construct its road and telegraph line from the Missouri River to
the initial point aforesaid, may construct its road and telegraph line
so as to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad at any point west'wardly of such initial point, in case such company shall deem such
westward connection more practicable or desirable; and in aid of
.the construction of so much of its road and telegraph line as
shall be a departure fiom the route hereinbefore provided for its
road, such company shall be entitled to all the benefits and be subject to all the conditions and restrictions of this act: Providedfurther, however, that the bonds of the United States shall not be issued
to such company for a greater amount than is hereinbefore provided, if the same had united with the Union Pacific Railroad on the
one hundredth degree of longitude; nor shall such company be entitled to receive any greater amount of alternate sections of public
lands than are also herein provided."
It thus appears that whilst the company was authorized to
extend its road west of the one hundredth meridian, if it saw
fit so to do, it was entirely in its option ; and if it did, it was
not to expect, or have, any subsidy of government bonds for
such extension. It is found by the court that the company
actually extended its road westward as far as Denver, 245
miles beyond the one hundredth meridian; but did not complete the same to that point, so as to be accepted by the President, until the 19th of October, 1872.
A material question in this case is, whether the whole line to
Denver, or only the line which the company was first authorized
to construct (which terminated at the one hundredth meridian), is liable to the lien for the government subsidy, and the
payment of five per cent of net earnings. If only the latter,
then the time of completion was that which is claimed by the
government, namely, the second day of November, 1869; but
the net earnings liable to the claim of five per cent would be
only those produccd on the first 393- miles, or if these cannot

458

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

be ascertained, then a pro rata amount of the whole net earnings of the road.
From a careful examination of the statutes relating to this
subject, we are of opinion that, whilst, as to its entire line, the
company, in the words of the ninth section of the act of 1864,
is "entitled to all the benefits and subject to all the conditions
and restrictions of the act;" and is bound to furnish transportation and telegraphic accommodations to the government on the
usual terms; yet that the subsidy bonds granted to the company,
being granted only in respect of the original road, terminating
at the one hundredth meridian, are a lien on that portion only;
and that the five per cent of the net earnings is only demandable on the net earnings of said portion. This deduction, we
think, is clearly demonstrated by the words of the fifth section
of the act.of 1862, which creates the government lien for the
payment of the subsidy bonds. Those words are that "the
issue of said bonds and delivery to the company shall ipso facto
constitute a first mortgage on the whole line of the railroad and
telegraph, with the rolling-stock, fixtures. and property of every
kind and description, [and] in considerationof which said bonds
nay be issued." It is the road and appurtenances, in consideration of which, or in respect of which, the bonds are issued,
that is subjected to the lien. This can apply, in the present
case, only to the first 394 miles of the defendant's road. And
as the lien only applies to this portion, the stipulation for payment out of net earnings cannot reasonably be applied to any
other portion of the line.
This view is strengthened by the terms of the third section of
the act of March 3, 1869, authorizing the defendant company
to assign and transfer to the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company that portion of its line between Denver and
Cheyenne. By that section, the said companies were authorized
to mortgage their respective portions of said road (referring to
the extension of the Kansas Pacific from the one hundredth
meridian to Denver, and thence to Cheyenne) to the amount of
$32,000 per mile; a privilege which would hardly have been
conceded if the lien of the government bonds was deemed to
extend over those portions of the line.
The result of this conclusion is, that only such part of the

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. KAN. PAC. RAILWAY CO.

459

annual net earnings of the road as are due to the first 39316
miles are in any event subject to the payment of the five per
cent in question.
But inasmuch as the court below, in estimating the net
earnings, credited the company for expenditures which are not
allowable according to the principles announced by us in the
case of the Union Pacific Railroad Company; and as, upon a
proper accounting, it may appear that, in some years, the defendant company realized a sufficient amount of net earnings
from its first 394 miles of road to pay the interest on the firstmortgage bonds, and leave a surplus applicable to the five per
cent payable to the government, it will be necessary to reverse
the judgment, in order that a new trial may be had between
the parties. It is proper, however, before concluding, that
we should indicate our opinion with regard to certain classes
of expenditures on which the government and the company
are at issue.
The former insists that certain items should be excluded
from the account which are claimed by the latter to be legitimate. These items are designated in Schedule C, annexed
to the findings of the court below, and are as follows:First. "Depreciation account, or expense not charged up."
This is explained to be the amount necessary to put the road
in proper repair, but which was not actually expended for
that purpose. We are clearly of opinion that it is not a
proper charge. Only such expenditures as are actually made
can with any propriety be claimed as a deduction from earnings.
Secondly. "Construction account, or improvements and additions to track," &c. This item, according to what we have said
in the Union Pacific Railroad case, ought to be allowed.
Thirdly. "Equipment account, or replacing and rebuilding
rolling-stock, machinery," &c. This item should also be allowed
as an expenditure properly chargeable to the earnings of the
road, when actually paid out of the earnings and not raised by
the issue of bonds or stock.
Fourthly. "Real estate purchased for depot grounds, &c.,
and expenses of same." This item is a proper charge if actually
paid out of the earnings, and not raised by bonds or stock.

460

UNITED STATES V. DENVER PAC. RAILWAY CO.

Fifthly. "Expenses

of land department."

[Sup. Ct.

This item is not

allowable.
Sixthly. "Interest on funded debt prior to government lien."
For the reasons expressed in the case of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, this item is not allowable, though the interest annually accruing on the first-mortgage bonds issued
upon the first 393-5 miles of the road is payable out of the net
earnings before the five per cent due the government.

Seventhly. "Fifty per cent government earnings withheld."
This, as explained in the previous opinion, is not allowable to
be charged as an expense.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause ordered to be remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. DENVER PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
The Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company is not liable for the debt
incurred by the Kansas Pacific Railway Company on account of subsidy
bonds; and although it is bound to perform the government service stipulated
by the Pacific Railroad acts at the rates therein prescribed, and is subject to
their provisions, so far as they are applicable to it, no part of the compensation due it for such service can be retained by the 'United States.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

:The Attorney-aeneral and Hr.Joseph K. He Cammon for the
appellant.

Xr.John P. Usher and Hr. S. I. Sanderson, contra.
Mit. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision in this case is controlled by United States v.

Kansas Pacific Bailway Company, supra, p. 465. By virtue of
the act of March 3, 1869 (15 Stat. 324), the latter company,
under the name of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, was "authorized to contract with the Denver
Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company, a corporation existing
under the laws of the Territory of Colorado, for the construc-

