COMMISSIONERS V. SELLEW.

[Sup. Ct.

sider the case as coming here from the Supreme Court, with
the facts found upon all the evidence.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied with the judgment
below.
Judgment affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BItADLEY did not hear the argument in this
case or take part in its decision.

Coin::MnssI0.NERs V. SELLEW.
A county in Kansas is a body politic, whose powers are exercised by a board of
county commissioners, and when it is sued, process must be served upon the
clerk of the board.
W1rhere, therefore, a mandanis was awarded against
it, - Held, 1. That the writ was properly directed to it in its corporate name.
2. That service of a copy of the writ upon the clerk is service upon the corporation, and the members of the board who fail to perform the required act
are subject to be punished for contempt.

EtROn to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. latt. Hf. Car2enterfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. Stillings, 11'. L. B. Wheat, and 111. T. A. Hturd, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In the State of Kansas counties are bodies corporate and politic, capable of suing and being sued. Their powers are exercised by boards of county commissioners chosen by the electors.
The name by which they can sue or be sued is the " Board of
County Commissioners of the County of ."
In legal proceedings against a county, process is served on the clerk of the
board. 1 Dassler's Kans. Stat. 217-221, sects. 1, 3, 5, 6, 9.
The boards of county commissioners are authorized "to
apportion and order the levying of taxes as provided by law"
(1 id. 224, sect. 16, sub. 4), and they are required to meet on

Oct. 1878.]

COMMISSIONERS V. SELLEW.

the first Monday in August of each year to "estimate and determine the amount of money to be raised by tax for all county
purposes, and all other taxes they may be required by law to
levy." 2 id. 1024, sect. 83.
Whenever a judgment is rendered against the board of
county commissioners of a county, no execution shall issue,
but' the judgment "shall be levied and collected by tax, as
other county charges, and, when so collected, shall be paid by
the county treasurer to the person to whom the same shall be
adjudged, upon the delivery of the proper voucher therefor."
1 id. 221, sect. 8.
By an act of the legislature of the State, approved Feb. 10,
1865, and proceedings thereunder, the board of county commissioners of the county of Leavenworth were authorized to
subscribe to the capital stock of the Leavenworth and Missouri
Pacific Railroad Company, and to issue bonds in payment of
the subscription.
Under this authority a subscription was
made and bonds issued, bearing date July 1, 1865, and falling
due July 1, 1875.
On the 29th of November, 1875, Sellew, the defendant in error,
recovered judgment in the CircAit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas against the board of county commissioners of the county of Leavenworth upon part of the
bonds so issued for $19,923.40 and costs of suit. On the 9th of
October, 1877, he made known to the court, by affidavit, that on
the 6th of August previous he had demanded of the board of
county commissioners that they should levy a tax to pay his
judgment, and that they had failed to'do so. He then obtained
from the court an alternative mandamus directed to the board
of county commissioners, and to John S. Van Winkle, Ebenezer W. Lucas, and William S. Richards, individual members
of the board, directing that they levy the tax immediately, or
show cause, on the 26th of November, 1877, why it had not
been done. Copies of this writ were. in due form served on
the clerk of the board and upon each of the individual members. On the return-day the board, appearing for the purpose of
the motion only, moved to quash the alternative writ because it
did not state facts sufficient to authorize the issue of a peremptory writ, and the several individual members answered, stating
voL. ix.

40

COMMISSIONERS V. SELLEW.

[Sup. Ct.

that the board met on the first Monday in August, 1877, and
estimated and determined the amount of money to be raised by
taxation for all purposes for the year 1877 ; that having completed their labor, they adjourned sine die; that in due time
afterwards the tax lists were made out, and on the 1st of November put in the hands of the treasurer for collection; that a
part of the taxes so levied and collected had already been paid;
that the judgment mentioned in the alternative writ was not
rendered on any of the kinds of indebtedness mentioned in the
proviso of sect. 1, c. 90, of the Session Laws of 1876 ; and that on
the 6th of November, at the general election of county officers,
Van Winkle and Lucas were not re-elected as members of the
board, but that other persons were elected in their places, and
that by reason thereof they would not be members of the board
after their present term expired.
Chapter 90 of the Session Laws of 1876 was an act relating
to taxation in Leavenworth County, and did not specially authorize a levy of taxes to pay this judgment, but it declared
that no more taxes than were therein provided for should be
levied.
On the 6th of December, 1877, a peremptory writ of mandamns was ordered "to and against the board of county commissioners of the county of Leavenworth, . . . commanding it
to levy, on or before the first. Monday in the month of August
next, and collect at the same time and in the same manner that
general taxes are levied and collected, . . . a tax on all taxable
property . . . in said county of Leavenworth . . sufficient in

amount to pay the judgment," &c.
To reverse this judgment this writ of error has been sued
out.
In United State. v. Boutwell (17 Wall. 604), it was decided
that as a mandamus was used "to compel the performance of
a duty resting upon the person to whom the writ is sent," if
directed to a public officer, it abated on his death or his retirement from office, because it could not reach the office. That
principle does not, as we think, apply to this case. There the
officer proceeded against was the Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, and the writ was "aimed exclusively against
him as a person." Here the writ is sent against the board of

Oct. 1878.]

COMMISSIONERS

V. SELLEW.

county commissioners, a corporation created and organized for
the express purpose of performing the duty, among others,
which the relator seeks to have enforced. The alternative writ
was directed both to the board in its corporate capacity and to
the individual members by name, but the peremptory writ was
ordered against the corporation alone. As the corporation can
only act through its agents, the courts will operate upon the
agents through the corporation. When a copy of the writ which
has been ordered is served upon the clerk of the board, it will be
served on the corporation, and be equivalent to a command that
the persons who maybe members of the board shall do what is
required. If the members fail to obey, those guilty of disobedience may, if necessary, be punished for the contempt.
Although the command is in form to the board, it may be enforced against those through whom alone it can be obeyed.
One of the objects in creating such corporations, capable of
suing and being sued, and having perpetual succession, is that
the very inconvenience which manifested itself in Boutwell's
case may be avoided. . In this way the office can be reached
and the officer compelled to perform its duties, no matter what
changes are made in the agents by whom the officer acts. The
board is in effect the officer, and the members of the board are
but the agents who perform its duties. While the board is
proceeded against in its corporate capacity, the individual members are punished in their natural capacities for failure to do
what the law requires of them as the representatives of the corporation.
We think, therefore, that the peremptory writ was properly
directed to the board in its corporate capacity. In this way
the power of the writ is retained until the thing is done which
is commanded, and it may at all times be enforced, through
those who are for the time being charged with the obligation of
acting for the corporation. If, in the course of the proceedings,
it appears that a part of the members have done all they could
to obey the writ, the court will take care that only those who
are actually guilty of disobedience are made to suffer for the
wrong that is done. Those who are members of the board at
the time when the board is required to act will be the parties
to whom the court will look for the performance of what is

NATIONAL BANK V. CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

demanded. As the corporation cannot die or retire from the
office it holds, the writ cannot abate as it did in Boutwell's
case. The decisions in the State courts in which this, practice
is sustained are numerous. Maddox v. Graham, 2 Mete. (Ky.)
56; Soutter v. The City of Madison, 15 Wis. 30; Pegram v.
Commissioners of Cleaveland County, 65 N. C. 114; The People
v. Collins, 19 Wend. (N. Y.) 56.
This disposes of the only question which has been argued
here. It is not contended that the law of 1876 presented any
valid objection to the levy of the tax. Von Hoffman v. City
of Quincy (4 Wall. 535) and Butz v. City of Iuscatine (8 id.
575) are decisive of this point.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, but as
during the pendency of this writ the time has gone by when
by the terms of the order for the peremptory writ the board
was directed to levy the tax in question, the cause will be remanded with authority, if necessary, to so modify the order
which has been entered, in respect to the time for the levy and
collection of the tax, as to make the writ effective for the end
to be accomplished; and it is
So ordered.

NATIOxAL BANK V. CASE.
1. A party who, by way of pledge or collateral security for a loan of money,
accepts stock of a national bank which he causes to be transferred to himself on its books, incurs immediate liability as a stockholder, and he cannot
relieve himself therefrom by making a colorable transfer of the stock, with
the understanding that at his request it shall be retransferred.
2. A national bank which had so accepted, and caused to be transferred to it,
shares of stock of another national bank, was, on the latter becoming insolvent, sued as a stockholder. Held, that a loan of money by a national bank
on such security is not prohibited by law; and, if it were, the defendant
could not set up its own illegal act to escape the responsibility resulting
therefrom.
3. The order of the Comptroller of the Currency prescribing to what extent the
individual liability of the stockholders of an insolvent national bank shall
be enforced, is conclusive.

AMPPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Distr et of Louisiana.

