PERRIS V. HEXAMER.

[Sup. Ct.

the reports which reached him, because he considered that the
sales were made and the assessments paid from the proceeds,
by his authorized attorney.
The testimony of Bennett tends also to corroborate this
view. lie states that he knew from his correspondence with
Lyon that he treated Paschal as his agent for the sale of his
property. The conduct of Lyon, as expressive almost as any
language which he could use, cannot, of course, change the
construction to be given to the words contained in his letter
to Paschal, but it tends to strengthen the conclusion as to the
intention of the writer.
Holding the letter to confer sufficient authority to contract
for the sale of Lyon's real property in San Antonio, there can
be no doubt of the right of the complainants to the relief
prayed. The deed executed to them by Paschal in the name
of Lyon, though invalid as a conveyance, is good as a contract
for the sale of the property described in it; and is sufficient,
therefore, to sustain the prayer of the bill for a decree directing Lyon to make a conveyance to them and enjoining the
enforcement of the judgment at law.
.Decree affirmed.
NoTE. - In Lyon v. Hernandez, which was argued by the same counsel as was
the preceding case, MR. JUSTICE FIELD, in delivering the opinion of the court,
remarked: This case involves the same question decided in Lyon v. Pollock (supra,
p. 668), and on the authority of that decision the decree herein is affirmed.

PERRIS v. HEXAmTER.
The right of an author or a publisher, under the copyright law, is infringed only
when other persons produce a substantial copy of the whole or of a material
part of the book or other thing for which he secured a copyright. Where,
therefore, the owner of a copyright for maps of certain wards of "the city of
New York, surveyed under the direction of insurance companies of said city,
which exhibit each lot and building, and the classes as shown by the different coloring and characters set forth in the reference," brought his bill to
restrain the publication of similar maps of the city of Philadelphia. Held,
that the bill could not be sustained.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

