256

FOSDICK V. CAR CO.

[Sup. Ct.

is affirmed, and the cause remanded with instructions to so
modify the decree as to make it conform hereto. The costs
of the appeal must be paid by the appellee; and it is
So ordered.

FOSDICK V. CAR COMPANY.
The ruling in Fosdick v. Schall (supra, p. 235), that where a contract between A.
and a railroad company for furnishing it cars provides that they shall be his
property until paid for, a pre-existing mortgage by the company of all its then
property, or that which it might thereafter acquire, does not subordinate the
claim of A. for the price of the cars to the lien of the mortgagees, reaffirmed
and applied to this case.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. .Henry Crawford and 111r. Ashbel Greenfor the appellants.
Mr. B. Biddle Boberts, contra.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal presents another petition of intervention filed in
the suit of Fosdicc p Fish v. The Chicago, Danville, & Vincennes Railroad Company. The general facts appearing in
that suit are stated in the case of -Fosdick v. Schall, supra,
p. 235.
The claim of this intervener, the Southwestern Car Company,
like that of Schall, arises out of a contract for the sale of cars,
made with the railroad company on the 10th of January, 1875,
a few days before the appointment of the receivers in the State
court. The price was secured by the notes of the company on
long time, but the title of the cars was to remain in the vendor
until the notes were paid. The cars all had upon them marks
indicating the ownership of the intervener.
The petition of intervention was filed Jan. 27, 1876. It set
out the particulars of the contract, and asked that the receiver
might be authorized to pay the price and keep the cars, as they

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDICK V. CAR CO.

were necessary for the profitable equipment of the road. Fosz
dick and Fish and the intervening bondholders answered, and
without denying the material averments in the petition, claimed
that notwithstanding the conditions of the sale the lien of the
mortgages was paramount to the title of the intervener. The
petition was referred to a master to take testimony and report;
but before any report was brought to the attention of the court,
if indeed any had been filed, a decree of sale was entered in the
principal cause in such form as to direct a sale of the cars in
question as part of the railroad. After the sale had been made
and confirmed, a report under the order of reference in the
petition of intervention was filed. This report was to the
effect that the title of the cars had never passed out of the vendor ; that the price agreed to be paid, $12,750, was reasonable;
that no part of it had been paid; that the cars had been in use
on the road since January, 1875, for which no compensation
had been made; and that these cars or similar ones were needed
for the business of the railroad.
Fosdick and Fish and the intervening bondholders excepted,
on the ground that the lien of the mortgages was paramount to
the title of the intervener. Upon the hearing the exceptions
were overruled; and as the cars had been included in the foreclosure sale, the clerk was directed to pay the purchase price
to the intervener from the fund in court. From this decree
the present appeal has been taken.
According to the decision in Posdick v. Schall, the lien of
the mortgages upon the cars now in question was subject to the
paramount claim of the car company for the price. The intervening petition on file when the foreclosure sale was made was
notice to the purchasers that the rights they acquired under the
sale would be subject to the claim of the car company, as finally
determined in the further progress of the cause. A restoration
of the cars might, therefore, have been decreed to the intervener
notwithstanding the sale. Instead of that, the payment of the
price from the fund in court has been ordered. We do not
understand that objection is made to this if the claim of the
intervener is superior to that of the mortgages, as we hold it
to be.
Decree affirmed.
VOL. IX.
17

