Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

mining records which were lost, nothing else could be introduced. For want of these, evidence of actual possession, of
title-deeds, of the location of the claim, and the record of the
former suit determining the rights of the parties to the locus in
quo, were all unavailing and inadmissible.
We know of no rule of law which justifies this action.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of' Montana will be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions to
order a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.
1. The act of March 12, 1863 (12 Stat. 820), relative to abandoned and captured
property, as extended by the act of July 2, 1864 (13 id. 375), authorizes the
recovery in the Court of Claims of the proceeds of property captured and,
without judicial condemnation, sold by the military authorities after July
17, 1862, and before March 12, 1863, if such proceeds were accounted for
and credited by the Secretary of the Treasury to the abandoned and captured property fund.
2 Where, in a suit arising under those acts, no direct proof was given that
the proceeds of the sale of the property were paid into the treasury, if the
circumstantial facts which are established by the evidence are set forth
in the finding of the Court of Claims, which it sends here as that upon
which alone its judgment was rendered, and they are, in the absence of any
thing to the contrary, the legal equivalent of a direct finding that such proceeds were so paid, this court will not on that account reverse the judgment.
3. The judgment of the Court of Claims as to the legal effect of what may, perhaps not improperly, be termed the ultimate circumstantial facts of the
case, is, if the question is properly presented, subject on appeal to be here
reviewed; and where the rights of the parties depend upon such circumstantial facts alone, and there is doubt as to the legal effect of them, it is
the duty of that court to frame its findings so that the question as to such
effect shall be presented by the record.
4. United States v. Crusell (14 Wall. 1), Same v. Ross (92 U. S. 281), and
Intermingled Cotton Cases (id. 651), so far as they bear upon the rule requiring, on an appeal from the Court of Claims, a finding by that court of
the facts in the case established by the evidence in the nature of a special
verdict, but not the evidence establishing them, cited and explained.

from the Court of Claims.
This was an action, brought by Walter Pugh against the
United States, to recover the proceeds of certain property. The
Court of Claims found the following facts: APPEAL

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

1. In December, 1862, the claimant was in possession as
owner of a plantation in Louisiana. The sugar and molasses
described in the petition were a part of the products of such
plantation, and were stored thereon, and in the possession of
the claimant's agents.
2. In December, 1862, this said sugar and molasses were
seized by the military forces of the United States, and turned
over to a military commission, known as the sequestration commission, on the 12th of January, 1863. The commission was
directed by general order No. 8, Department of the Gulf, "to
sell at public auction all property in its possession that has not
been or may not be claimed or released, except such as may
be required for the use of the army, and turn over the proceeds
thereof to the chief quartermaster." The said sugar and molasses were then in the possession of the commission. On the 4th
of February, 1863, the commission caused the same to be sold,
with other property, at public auction in New Orleans. By
the accounts kept by the commission, it appears that the net
proceeds of the sugar and molasses amounted to $4,362.23. It
does not appear specifically that the proceeds were paid over
to the chief quartermaster of the Department of the Gulf; but
it appears, and the court find the fact to be, that he received
money at various times in the year 1863 from the sales of sugar
and molasses in New Orleans, to the amount of $33,796.02.
For this amount the chief quartermaster accounted on the final
settlement of his accounts, and the same was credited by the
Secretary of the Treasury to the abandoned and captured property fund in the treasury.
3. That, as appears from the accounts of the chief quartermaster, the said amount of $33,796.02 was received by him as
the net proceeds of sales of sugar and molasses in New Orleans,
and the whole of said amount was received in and subsequent
to the month of February, 1863. That it does not appear what
became of the fund resulting from the said sale of claimant's
sugar and molasses, unless the same was paid over to the chief
quartermaster of the Department of the Gulf, in pursuance of
said order of General Banks, and was included in said sum of
$33,796.02.
4. On June 13, 1863, the said commission notified the agent

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

of Mrs. Walter Pugh, wife of the claimant, who had applied
for the release of a portion of the said proceeds, that the application was denied.
Upon these facts the claimant had judgment for $4,862.23.
The United States thereupon appealed to this court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- aeneral Smith for the appellant.
Mr. Edward Janin, contra.
MR. C=IEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Two questions are presented by the finding of facts in this
case, to wit:1. Does the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, as extended by the act of July 2, 1864 (18 Stat. 375), authorize a
recovery in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of property
captured and sold by the military authorities, without judicial condemnation, after July 17, 1862, and before March 12,
1863, but accounted for and credited by the Secretary of the
Treasury to the abandoned and captured property fund in
the treasury ?
2. Does it appear that the proceeds sued for in this case were
actually paid into the treasury?
The first of these questions has been often the subject of consideration in the Court of Claims, but has never, until now,
been brought here for determination. It was first decided adversely to the United States as early as 1867, in Barringer's
Case (3 Ct. of Cl. 358) ; and although that court has ruled the
same way many times since, no appeal was taken by the government until the rendition of this judgment in 1876. Under
these circumstances, we ought not to disturb what may fairly be
considered a rule of decision in that court acquiesced in by the
United States, unless the error is manifest.
The Abandoned and Captured Property Act was undoubtedly
intended to be prospective only in its operation. It provided
the mode by which that class of property was thereafter to be
collected and disposed of, and directed what should be done
with the proceeds. By the act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589),
the seizure of certain kinds of property owned by those engaged
in the rebellion, and an application of the property or its pro-

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

ceeds to the support of the army of the United States, were
authorized. This act contemplated, however, a condemnation
of the property by judicial proceedings in rent instituted in the
name of the United States in some court having jurisdiction of
the territory within which the property was found, or to which
it might be removed. The title did not pass by a seizure under
the authority of this act until a decree of condemnation was
rendered.
The sixth section of the Abandoned and Captured Property
Act made it the duty of every officer or soldier of the army of
the United States who took or received any abandoned property, or cotton, sugar, rice, or tobacco, from persons in the insurrectionary districts, or who had it under his control, to turn it
over to the treasury agent provided for in the act, and take a
receipt therefor. As the property captured in this case had
been sold by the sequestration commission before this act took
effect, no question arises as to whether, after the act did take
effect, the property should have been turned over to the proper
treasury agent, or proceeded against for condemnation under
the act of 1862. Having been converted into money by the
action of the capturing military authorities, without judicial
condemnation, there was nothing left for the treasury agent to
do; and as the property had been released from custody, there
could be no proceeding against it in rem.
By sect. 3 of the act of July 2, 1864, sects. 1 and 6 of the
Abandoned and Captured Property Act were extended so as to
include every description of property mentioned in the act of
1862. This has been supposed by the Court of Claims to give
that court jurisdiction over cases for the recovery of money
actually paid into the treasury as the proceeds of property captured after July 17, 1862, and before March 12, 1863. Barringer's Case, supra; Mrs. Minor's Case, 6 Ct. of Cl. 393;
Terry Carne's Case, 8 id. 277; Miss Hlfoore's Case, 10 id. 375.
It is also understood to have been the practice of the executive
departments of the government from the beginning to credit
the abandoned and captured fund in the treasury with the proceeds of all property captured after July 17, 1862, and before
March 12, 1863, paid over to the quartermasters, and accounted
for by them in their settlements with the Treasury Department.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

No distinction was made in this particular between captures
after March 12, 1863, and those before. It is a familiar rule
of interpretation that in the case of a doubtful and ambiguous
law the contemporaneous construction of those who have been
called upon to carry it into effect is entitled to great respect.
-Edward's Lessee v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 210. While, therefore,
the question is one by no means free from doubt, we are not
inclined to interfere, at this late day, with a rule which has
been acted upon by the Court of Claims and the executive for
so long a time. -Besides, the interpretation which has been
given the act is in strict accordance with the well-settled, policy
of the government not to enforce the right of capture during
the late war against the property of the inhabitants of the insurrectionary districts without giving the owners an opportunity
of proving in a court of justice that, although they were in law
enemies, they were in fact friends of the United States. Under
the act of 1862 this proof might be made in the suit for condemnation, and under the Abandoned and Captured Property
Act, in a suit instituted to recover the proceeds in the treasury.
Under these circumstances, it can hardly be considered a forced
construction of the act of 1864 to hold, as has been done, that
it was intended to subject the proceeds in the treasury, of property captured after July 17, 1862, and sold without judicial
condemnation before March 12, 1863, to the same suits that
were allowed in cases of captures and sales after that date. If
this practice is not supported by the exact letter of the law, it
is by the spirit, and it is certainly just. We are not disposed
to change it.
The second question presents for consideration a subject of
much importance connected with the practice under our rule,
in reference to appeals from the Court of Claims, which requires "a finding" by that court, "of the facts in the case
established by the evidence, in the nature of a special verdict,
but not the evidence establishing them." The ultimate fact to
be determined in this case is whether the proceeds of the sale
of the captured property belonging to the claimant have been
paid into the treasury. No direct proof to that effect has been
given, but if shown at all, it is by way of inference from certain
circumstantial -facts which have been established by the evi-

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

dence. These circumstantial facts are set forth in the finding
which has been sent here as the finding upon which alone the
judgment was rendered, and as the case stands, the question
we are to decide is whether those facts are sufficient to support
the judgment. Confessedly, the court has found all the facts
which have been directly established by the evidence. These
facts are not evidence, in the sense that evidence means the
statements of witnesses or documents produced in court for inspection. They are the results of evidence, and whether they
establish the ultimate fact to be reached is, if a question of fact
at all, to say the least, in the nature of a question of law. If
what has been found is, in the absence of any thing to the contrary, the legal equivalent of a direct finding that the proceeds
of this claimant's property have been paid into the treasury, the
judgment is right. Otherwise, it is wrong. The inquiry thus
presented is as to the legal effect of facts proved, not of the
evidence given to make the proof; and the question of practice
to be settled is whether, under our rule, the judgment of the
Court of Claims as to the legal effect of what may, perhaps not
improperly, be called the ultimate circumstantial facts in a
case, is final and conclusive, or whether it may be brought here
for review on appeal.
From what is said in Boss' Case (12 Ct. of Cl. 565), and by
the reporters in a note (11 id. 344), we are led to suppose that
the Court of Claims understands that our decisions in United
States v. Boss (92 U. S. 281) and Intermingled Cotton Cases
(id. 651) leave this question somewhat in doubt. To avoid
misapprehension in the future, we take this opportunity to say
that we not only think such a judgment may be reviewed here
if the question is properly presented, but that when the rights
of the parties depend upon circumstantial facts alone, and there
is doubt as to the legal effect of the facts, it is the duty of the
court, when requested, to so frame its findings as to put the
doubtful question into the record. This would not require us
on the appeal to decide upon the weight of evidence. That
is done in the court below, when the particular fact is found
which the evidence tends to prove. The effect of mere evidence
stops when the fact it proves is established. After that the
question is as to the effect of the fact; and when the evidence

-Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

in a case has performed its part and brought out all the facts
that have been proved, these facts thus established are to be
grouped, and their legal effect as a whole determined. If the
case could come here in such a form as to require us to consider
the evidence, we should be required to trace the evidence to its
logical results, find in this way all the facts that had been
proven, and then declare the final legal conclusion. The rule
relieves us from the necessity of considering the evidence at
all, and confines our attention to the legal effect upon the rights
of the parties of the facts proven as they have been sent up
from the court below. In this way the weight of the evidence
is left for the sole consideration of the court below, but the
ultimate effect of the facts which the direct evidence has established is left open for review here on appeal. The position
which the case occupies when it comes here under such circumstances is precisely the same as it would be if the facts, instead
of being found by the court, had been agreed upon by the parties, and their agreement embodied in the record.
In United States v. Crusell (14 Wall. 1), the questi6n was
whether the particular facts found justified the conclusion that
the money sued for bad been paid into the treasury; and inasmuch as the legal presumption is, in the absence of any thing
to the contrary, that the officers of the government perform
their duties when called upon to act in their official capacities,
we thought that the law would infer from the facts found that
the money which ought to have been paid over by a quartermaster to his superior officer was actually paid over, and that
in this way it had reached the treasury. So in Intermingled
Cotton Cases (supra), when it was found that the cotton of the
several claimants contributed to and formed part of the captured mass from which the cdtton sold was taken, we concluded
that the claimants were entitled to their respective shares of
the money in the treasury as the proceeds of the sale. In
United States v. Ross (supra), however, we thought a similar
conclusion from the particular facts there found was too remote,
and so reversed the judgment and sent the cause back for a
new trial. The premises we considered too uncertain to justify
the inference that had been drawn. We thought independent
and material facts were wanting, and that the law would not

UNITED STATES V. PUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

raise the presumption from what did appear that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover. The difficulty in that case was not as
to the power of this court to act upon the facts as found, but
as to the sufficiency of the facts to support the judgment.
Upon the facts found in this case we have no difficulty in
presuming that the money sued for is in the treasury, within the
meaning of the Abandoned and Captured Property Act. The
sequestration commission was directed to sell captured property,
and turn the proceeds over to the chief quartermaster. The
property in question was sold, and an account of sales stated by
the commission. The case shows that at various times during
the year 1863 the chief quartermaster received from the commission the proceeds of sugar and molasses sold, amounting in
the aggregate to $33,796.02, and that this amount was all duly
accounted for to the treasury, and there passed to the credit of
the fund. This has always been treated in that department as
equivalent to an actual payment into the treasury. In June,
1863, the commission refused the application of the wife of the
claimunt for a restoration of the proceeds. This raises the presumption that down to that time the money had not been released ; and as it is specially found that it does not appear what
did become of the money unless it was paid over, as it should
have been, to the chief quartermaster, we think the law will
presume it was disposed of as the order of the commanding
general required it should be. If any evidence to the contrary
exists, the burden was cast upon the United States to produce
it. Until the presumption in favor of the claimant is repelled, the law gives him the right to the judgment he has
obtained.
Judgment affirmed.

