Oct. 1878.]

Ot ILLS V. SCOTT.

Laws of Utah, 379), authorized to be passed by the act of
Congress before mentioned, gave to the party " entitled to the
occupancy or possession," as well as to the "occupant or occupants," the right to apply for the judgment by the Probate
Court, upon which, when rendered, the mayor was to execute
his deed. If this were not so, the right would be clearly within
the equity of the act of Congress, and conferred by it.
The rejection of the appellant's claim and the adjudication
in favor of Smith, who had not then a shadow of right to the
premises, by the Probate Court was, therefore, a gross error,
and the Supreme Court of the Territory repeated it by affirming
the judgment.
The judgment of the latter court will, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to proceed in conformity to this opinion; and it is

So ordered.

NiOTE. - Hussey v. Merritt, appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah, was argued at the same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case. Inu. JUSTICE SwAYN stated that the opinion in that case was decisive
of this. The cardinal question here, as there, was as to the validity of the proceedings touching the sale under the 3ernhisel mortgage, and the result must
be the same.

MILLS V. SCOTT.
1. The statute of Georgia of March 16, 1869, requiring actions for the enforcement of rights of individuals under acts of incorporation or by operation
of law, which accrued prior to June 1, 1865, to be brought before Jan. 1,
1870, does not apply to claims against the estate of a deceased person, so as
to exclude the time which a previous statute allowed to administrators to
ascertain the condition of the estate, and to creditors to file their claims.
2. A court of equity is the proper tribunal to ascertain the proportion of indebtedness chargeable to a stockholder of a bank on his personal liability.
But as by the law of the State, as declared by its highest tribunal, an
action of debt will lie where the amount of the bank's outstanding indebtedness and the number of shares held by the stockholder are known and can
be stated, the extent of his liability in such cases being fixed, and the
amount with which he should be charged being a mere matter of computation, a similar action at law will be sustained in such cases in the Circuit
Court of the United States.

