BARROW V. HUNTON.

[Sup. Ct.

BARROW v. HUNTON.
'1. A. having recovered a judgment against B. and C. in the District Court for
the parish of New Orleans, B., on the ground among others that the judgment, havihg been obtained by default and without lawful service upon
him, was void, filed a petition in that court praying for a decree of nullity
and for an injunction. An injunction and citation were issued and served
upon A., who thereupon, alleging that he was a citizen of Missouri and
B. a citizen of Louisiana, prayed that the action of nullity be removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States. It having been so removed, and B.'s
petition amended by converting it into a bill so as to conform to the practice in equity, that court, on a final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs,
the latter including an exemplification of the record and proceedings in the
original suit, dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill. Held, that
the causes relied on for the nullity of the judgment being, under the Code
of Louisiana, vices of form, the proceeding by pdtition was substantially
a continuation of the original suit, and that the Circuit Court could not take
cognizance thereof.
2. The character of cases sought to be removed to the courts of the United
States is always open to examination, to determine whether, ratone materie,
they are competent to take jurisdiction thereof. State rules on the subject
cannot deprive them of it.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
On the 19th of January, 1874, Logan Hunton recovered in
the Fourth District Court for the parish of Orleans, Louisiana,
against F. M. Goodrich and one Pilcher, a judgment for $2,500,
and interest at eight per cent per annum from May 1, 1861.
On the 28th of that month, Goodrich filed a petition in said
court, praying for a decree of nullity of the said judgment,
and for an injunction in the mean time, setting forth as grounds
for such relief that the judgment complained of was void, because it was founded on a default taken, and no lawful service
of the petition and citation in the suit had ever been made on
him, Goodrich; and because the partnership of Pilcher & Goodrich had been dissolved before 1866 ; and because he, Goodrich,
had been discharged as a bankrupt in 1868. An injunction
and citation were thereupon issued and served.
On Feb. 3, 1874, Hunton, the defendant in this proceeding,
filed a petition for the removal of the action of nullity to the
Circuit Court of the United States, alleging that he was a citizen of Missouri, and that Goodrich, the plaintiff, was a citizen

Oct. 1878.]

BARROW V. HUNTON.

81

of Louisiana; and after a hearing on the subject, an order of
removal was made by the District Court. The plaintiff moved
the Circuit Court of the United States to remand the cause;
but this motion was denied, and the suit proceeded in the latter
court. After various proceedings had, the plaintiff, by leave
of the court, amended his petition to conform to the equity
practice of the United States court, converting it into a bill in
equity containing substantially the same averments, and praying the same relief as before. The defendant answered, and
the parties went to proofs. Amongst the proofs adduced was
an exemplification of the record and proceedings in the original
suit in which the judgment was rendered, which the plaintiff
in this suit sought to have declared null and void. On the
14th of February, 1876, the Circuit Court made a final decree,
as follows: "This cause came on to be heard upon the bill,
answer, replication, and proofs, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the injunction herein issued by the State court was wrongfully obtained, and is therefore dissolved. And it is further
ordered and decreed that the plaintiff's bill be dismissed at his
costs."
A rehearing having been refused, the decree was confirmed
on the 28th of February, 1876.
From this decree the present appeal was taken; and it is
sought to be reversed on two grounds, upon which errors are
assigned, namely: 1st, That the transfer was illegally made, and the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction.
2d, That it appears that the Fourth District Court, which
rendered the judgment against F. M. Goodrich, was without
jurisdiction, and therefore the judgment is null and void.
Goodrich having died pendente lite, Barrow, his administrator, was substituted in his stead.
Mr. George L. Bright for the appellant.
The Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of a suit seeking to
annul the judgment of the State court, or to enjoin the execution thereof, and the transfer of the suit was made without .authority of law. Bank v. Turnbull & Co., 16 Wall. 190; Gwin
v. Breedlove, 2 How. 29; Freeman v. Howe, 24 id. 460; Dunn
VOL. ix.

6

BARROW V. flUNTON.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1; Williams v. Bryne, Hempst. 472; Brooks v.
J1ontgomery, 23 La. Ann. 450; Diggs v. Walcott, 4 Cranch, 179;
Peck v. Jermes, 7 How. 623; Vatson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 719;
Dial et al. v. Beynolds et al., 96 U. S. 340; Ranlett v. The
Collier White Lead Co., 30 La. Ann. 56; Goodrich v. liunton,
29 id. 372; 2 Story, Const., sects. 1757, 1759; 1 Kent, Com.,
sect. 19, p. 451; Act 1793, 1 Stat. 334; Rev. Stat., sect. 720.
1M1r. Thomas J. .Durant,contra.
The question of the legality of the removal of the case to
the Circuit Court cannot be first raised here. The appellant
did not object to the jurisdiction of that court, but filed his
bill, which was ultimately dismissed upon the merits. He
ought not to be allowed to take his chances there, and, on an
adverse decision, assign for error that the removal was unauthorized.
Ie now seems to consider that the Circuit Court was without
jurisdiction of the cause, although it appears by the record that
the complainant was a citizen of Louisiana, and the defendant,
of Missouri. There was, therefore, no want of jurisdiction, ratione personarum.
But it is urged that the Circuit Court could not annul the
judgment of the State court, and enjoin its execution.
It is perhaps a sufficient answer to this proposition to say,
that the Circuit Court neither annulled nor enjoined that judgment. It is true that the appellant isisted before the lower
court that it ought to do so; but the court refused so to grant
the relief prayed for in his bill.
All the authorities, therefore, which have been cited in support of the first assignment of error, if they have any application, must sustain the action below.
MR. JUSTIcE BRADLEY, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question presented with regard to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court is, whether the proceeding to procure nullity of
the former judgment in such a case as the present is or is not
in its nature a separate suit, or whether it is a supplementary
proceeding so connected with the original suit as to form an
incident to it, and substantially a continuation of it. If the

Oct. 1878.]

BARROW V. HUNTON.

proceeding is merely tantamount to the common-law/practice
of moving to set aside a judgment for irregularity, or to a writ
of error, or to a bill of review or an appeal, it would belong to
the latter category, and the United States court could not
properly entertain jurisdiction of the case. Otherwise, the
Circuit Courts of the United States would become invested
with power to control the proceedings in the State courts, or
would have appellate jurisdiction over them in all cases where
the parties are citizens of different States. Such a result would
be totally inadmissible.
On the other hand, if the proceedings are tantamount to a
bill in equity to set aside a decree for fraud in the obtaining
thereof, then they constitute an original and independent proceeding, and according to the doctrine laid down in Gaines v.
Puentes (92 U. S. 10), the case might be within the cognizance
of the Federal courts. The distinction between the two classes
of cases may be somewhat nice, but it may be affirmed to exist.
In the one class there would be a mere revision of errors and
irregularities, or of the legality and correctness of the judgments and decrees of the State courts ; and in the other class,
the investigation of a new case arising upon new facts, although having relation to the validity of an actual judgment
or decree, or of the party's right to claim any benefit by reason
thereof.
It would seem apparent that the proceeding in the present
case was one that affected the mere regularity of the original
judgment. In the common-law practice, it would have been a
motion to set aside the judgment for irregularity, or a writ of
error coram vobis.
It will be more satisfactory, however, to take a brief view of
the practice of Louisiana on this subject.
The process for procuring nullity of a judgment in that State
is prescribed by the Code of Practice, in which we find the following provisions : "ART. 556. Defluitive judgments may be revised, set aside, or
reversed: 1, by a new trial; 2, by appeal; 3, by action of nullity;
4, by rescission. The last mode can only be exercised by minors,
or persons who were absent when judgment was rendered against
them."

BARROW V. HUNTON.

[Sup. Ot.

"ART. 605. The causes for which the nullity of a definitive judgment may be demanded are twofold: those that are relative to the
form of proceeding, and those that appertain to the merits of the
question to be tried."

Art. 606 specifies the vices of form for which a judgment
can be annulled; as, when against a minor appearing without
a curator, or against a married woman appearing without the
authority of her husband; where the defendant is condemned
by default without being cited; where the judge was incompetent to try the suit; and where defendant has not been legally
cited, and has not entered appearance, and judgment is by default.
Art. 607 specifies the grounds of nullity relating to the merits; namely, where, the judgment has been obtained through
fraud, bribery, forgery of documents, &c.
"ART. 608. The nullity of judgment may be demanded from
the same court which has rendered the same, or from the court of
appeal before which the appeal from such judgment was taken,
pursuant to the provisions hereafter expressed.
"ART. 609. The nullity can be demanded on the appeal, only
while the appeal is still pending, and when the nullity is apparent
on the face of the records.
"ART. 610. The party praying for the nullity of a judgment
before the court which has rendered the same must bring his action
by means of a petition; and the adverse party must be cited to
appear, as in ordinary suits."

From these extracts it is to be inferred that the action of
nullity must be brought in the same court which rendered the
judgment, or in the court of appeal when an appeal is pending.
And so the Supreme Court of Louisiana has decided. Hennen's
Digest, art. Judgment, XI. (c), and cases there cited. In
-David, Adm'r, y. Calouret (1 La. Ann. 171) the court says:
"The settlement made before the notary, under the order of
the judge, . . . sought to be annulled in this suit, was made
the judgment of the court by a decree, . . . and before that
court alone ought the action to annul the act to have been
brought." The action of rescission, which is nearly identical
with that of nullity, is expressly required by art. 616 of the

Oct. 1878.]

BARROW V. HUNTON.

Code of Practice to be brought in the court that rendered the
judgment.
The fact that an action of nullity can only be brought in the
court which rendered the judgment, or in the court to which
such judgment is appealed, is entitled to some weight in determining the question now under consideration. It shows that
in the estimation of the legislature of Louisiana there is a manifest propriety in submitting the question of the validity of a
judgment to the court which rendered it, or to the court which
has the right to revise the judgment by way of appeal. We
are not disposed, however, to allow this consideration to operate
so far as to make it an invariable criterion of the want of
jurisdiction in the courts of the United States. If the State
legislatures could, by investing certain courts with exclusive
jurisdiction over certain subjects, deprive the Federal courts of
all jurisdiction, they might seriously interfere with the right
of the citizen to resort tor those courts. The character of the
cases themselves is always open to examination for the purpose
of determining whether, ratione materice, the courts of the
United States are incompetent to take jurisdiction thereof.
State rules on the subject cannot deprive them of it.
The classification of the causes of nullity in the Louisiana
Code into causes relative to form and those relative to the
merits is nearly coincident with the classification above suggested, of cases which are, and cases which are not, cognizable
in the courts of the United States. Causes of nullity relating
to form would fall in that class of cases which could not be
brought in these courts, or be removed thereto. The present
case is one of that character. It is precisely described in the
fourth division of art. 606 of the Code.
In our judgment, therefore, the case was one of which the
Circuit Court could not take cognizance; and therefore the
judgment must be reversed, and the record remitted with directions to remand the cause to the State court from which it
was removed.
So ordered.

