LYON V. POLLOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

the case demanded,- and strictly accurate. Sentences may, it
is true, be extracted from the charge, which if read apart from
But the qualifications
their connection, need qualification.
were given in the context, and the jury could not possibly have
been misled. Upon the whole, we think that the case was
submitted in a manner of which there is no just cause of
complaint.
Judgnient affirmed.

LyoN v. POLLOCK.
1. A., at the commencement of the late rebellion, owned property in San Antonio,
Texas, consisting principally of real estate and stock in a gas company.
Apprehending that his life was in danger in consequence of his avowed
hostility to secession, lie fled from the country, and, by a power of attorney,
authorized B. to sell the property for whatever consideration and upon
such terms as he might deem best, and to execute all proper instruments
of transfer. B. took possession of the property, which lie retained until
July, 1865, when lie gave the charge of it, with the business and papers
in his hands, to C. A. thereupon wrote to C., "I wish you to manage [my
property] as you would with your own. If a good opportunity offers to
sell every thing I have, I would be glad to sell. It may be parties will
come into San Antonio who will be glad to purchase my gas stock and
real estate." Ildd, that C. was thereby authorized to contract for the sale
of the real estate, but not to convey it.
2. A deed executed to a purchaser, though invalid as a conveyance, may be good
as a contract for the sale of the property described therein.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The appellant, Lyon, in 1873, recovered judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States against the appellees,
Pollock and wife, in an action for two parcels or lots of land
situated in the city of San Antonio, in the State of Texas.
Thereupon the appellees brought the present suit on the equity
side of the court to enjoin the enforcement of the judgment,
and to compel a conveyance to them of the title to the land ;
or, if that relief could not be granted, to obtain a decree for
the value of their improvements, in accordance with a statute
of the State.
The bill of complaint states, as grounds for relief, that the
judgment was obtained upon the trial of the legal title, and

Oct. 1878.]

LYON V. POLLOCK.

that their rights are of an equitable nature, constituting an
equitable title to the land. It sets forth that on the 24th of
August, 1865, Lyon, being owner of the lots, executed an instrument, a copy of which is appended and made part of the
bill, authorizing one I. A. Paschal to sell- any and all real estate
of which he, Lyon, was then seised in the county of Bexar, in
Texas, and that the premises in controversy are a portion of
this property; that previously, and up to the 1st of July,
1865, one W. A. Bennett had been the attorney and agent of
Lyon, having full power to manage, control, and sell all or
any portion of his property, real or personal; that about this
time Bennett transferred the business of his agency to Paschal,
and communicated the fact to Lyon ; that the latter thereupon
executed the instrument mentioned; that after this transfer
and the delivery of the instrument, Paschal was treated and
recognized by him as his duly authorized agent and attorney;
and, as such, he sold the premises in controversy to the complainants in October, 1865, for the sum of $425, and executed
a conveyance to them.
The bill further states that Lyon subsequently made no
claim to the lots, but acquiesced in their sale, and did not
attempt to exercise any control over them, nor pay any taxes
on them; that the complainants at once took possession of the
lots, and have since been in their undisturbed use and enjoyment, claiming the same as their own, and have paid the State,
city, and county taxes, and have made permanent improvements
on them of the value of $6,250 ; that the lots sold for their full
value; and that Paschal used the money received from the sale,
with Lyon's consent, in part payment of assessments on stock
owned by him in the San Antonio Gas Company, a corporation
existing in the county of Bexar.
The instrument mentioned in the bill as authorizing Paschal
to sell Lyon's real estate is a letter of Lyon, of which the following is a copy, omitting immaterial portions: " MONTEREY, Aug. 24, 1865.
I. A. PASOHAL:
"MY DEAR SIR, - I am just in receipt of a letter from Mr.
Bennett, informing me that he has placed all my papers for safekeeping in your possession. In better or safer hands he could not

LYON V. POLLOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

have given them. The position you have occupied during the past
four years of the war is a very enviable one, as glorious as it has
been dangerous. I congratulate you upon the issue. I am sure
you have no reason to regret your decision to abide by the Union.
I am unable to go to San Antonio at present. Mly family are
sick in the North, and demand my presence there. M3r. Kinney's
death leaves a large business in my hands to be settled. I wish
you to manage as you would with your own. If a good opportunity offers to sell every thing I have, I would be glad to sell. It
may be parties will come into San Antonio who will be glad to
purchase my gas stock and real estate. I shall be glad if you find
time to write to me. If you will, give me a description of affhirs
as they exist at present. I shall probably remain here two months
yet. . . . I enclose a letter for my wife. It is impossible to send
letters by 'Matamoras. The road has been blockaded for a long
time. If you have a regular mail, I shall be greatly obliged if you
will mail this letter; if no mail, will you do me the favor to send
by private hands to New Orleans?
"Most respectfully yours,
"I. L. Lyolvs."

The previous power of attorney to W. A. Bennett authorized
him to take charge of and control all Lyon's property of every
kind, real and personal, in the county of Bexar, in Texas, and
to sell and convey the same upon such terms and upon such
conditions as he might deem best, and to collect and receipt
for all debts, rents, and profits due or to become due to Lyon,
and tb represent him in all matters relating to the stock of the
gas company.
The answer of Lyon to the bill admits that on the 24th of
August, 1865, he was the owner of the lots in controversy;
that prior to the 1st of August of that year, W. A. Bennett
was his lawful agent and attorney, authorized to manage his
property, and sell it or any part of it; and that prior to the
24th of that month he transferred his papers to Paschal for
safe-keeping; but it denies that the letter of attorney from
him to Bennett contained any power of substitution. It admits
the writing of the letter by him to Paschal acknowledging the
receipt of Bennett's letter, informing him of the transfer of the
papers; but denies that he conferred, or intended by it to confer, any authority to sell the property, or that he afterwards

Oct. 1878.]

LYON V. POLLOCK.

treated or recognized Paschal as his agent or attorney with
such authority. It also denies that Lyon ever ceased to regard
the lots as his property, or that he has ever acquiesced in their
sale; and avers that he was prevented from taking possession
of the property after the sale only from fear of bodily harm.
It also avers ignorance by Lyon of the payment of taxes on the
property or of the alleged improvements; and that the payment of the taxes, and the improvements, if made, were without
his knowledge or consent.
In explanation of his absence froih Texas, the answer states
that, when the rebellion broke out, it was known that he was a
Union man, opposed to the secession movement, and that his
life was in consequence threatened by a secret combination of
men known as "the Knights of the Golden Circle," and that
he was compelled to leave the country secretly and in haste;
that after the war was at an end he believed that his life
would have been in imminent danger had he returned to Texas
and attempted to recover his property. It avers that if the
money received by Paschal were appropriated for the payment
of assessments upon stock of the San Antonio Gas Company,
such disposal of it was unauthorized and without his knowledge
or consent. It also refers to the judgment at law recovered
by him in the Circuit Court of the United States for the lots
in controversy, and insists that it settled all questions between
the parties as to the property in suit.
To the answer a replication was filed and proofs were taken,
which showed that rumors had reached Lyon as early as 1867
that sales of some of his real estate had been made by Paschal,
and that assessments had been levied on his stock in the gas
company, and generally tended to establish the allegations of
the bill. In the opinion of the court below they sufficiently
established the equitable right of the complainants to a conveyance of the premises from Lyon. A decree directing such conveyance, with a perpetual injunction against the enforcement
of the judgment for the possession of the lands, was accordingly
entered, from which the present appeal is taken.
Mr. Philip Phillips and Hr. W. Hallett Phillips for the
appellant.
. No counsel appeared for the appellees.

LYON V. POLLOCK.

[Sup. Ct:

M%. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the construction given to the letter of
Lyon to Paschal, of the 24th of August, 1865. That letter
clearly did not authorize the execution of a conveyance by
Paschal in the name of Lyon to the purchaser. Its insufficiency
in that respect was authoritatively determined in the action at
law for the lands; the instrument executed by Paschal as the
deed of Lyon being held inoperative to pass the legal title.
The question now is, was the letter sufficient to authorize a
contract for the sale of the lots ? To determine this, and give
full effect to the language of the writer, we must place ourselves in his position, so as to read it, as it were, with his eyes
and mind. It appears from his answer, as well as his testimony, that lie was in great danger of personal violence in San
Antonio, shortly after the commencement of the rebellion,
owing to his avowed hostility to secession, or at least that he
thought he was in such danger. He apprehended that his
life was menaced, and was in consequence induced to flee the
country. He possessed at the time a large amount of property,
real and personal, in San Antonio. This lie confided to the
care of his partner, Bennett, to whom he gave a power of
attorney, authorizing him to take charge of and control the
same, and sell it for whatever consideration and upon such
terms as he might judge best, and execute all proper instruments of transfer ; and also to collect and receipt for debts due
to him. Bennett took possession of Lyon's property and
managed it until July, 1865, when he transferred it, with the
business and papers in his hands, to Paschal, and at once
informed Lyon by letter of the transfer. It was under these
circumstances that the letter of Lyon to Paschal, -which is the
subject of consideration, was written. Its language is:
I
-ish you to manage [my property] as you would with your
own. If a good opportunity offers to sell every thing I have, I
would be glad to sell. It may be parties will come into San
Antonio who will be glad to purchase my gas stock and real
estate."
Situated as Lyon then was, a fugitive from the State, it
could hardly have been intended by him that if propositions

Oct. 1878.],

LYON V. POLLOCK.

to purchase his property or any par6 of it were made to Paschal, they were to be communicated to him, and to await his
approval before being accepted. He was at the time at Monterey, in Mexico, and communication by water between that
place and San Antonio was infrequent and uncertain; and he
states himself that it was impossible to send letters by Matamoras, as the road was blockaded. Writing under these circumstances, we think it clear that he intended by his language,
what the words naturally convey, that if an opportunity to
sell his property presented itself to Paschal, he should avail
himself of it and close a contract for its sale.
His subsequent conduct shows, or at least tends to show,
that such was his own construction of the letter, and that he
approved, or at least acquiesced in, the disposition made of his
property. He must have been aware, from the laws of the
State, which he is presumed to have known, that taxes were
leviable upon his property, and that unless they were paid the
property would be sold for their payment; yet he confessedly
took no steps from 1865 to 1873 to meet them, and thus prevent a forced sale of his property; a course perfectly natural
if it be conceded that the property was in charge of an agent,
with power to manage and sell it as his judgment might dictate. His indifference, also, after rumors reached him that a
sale of his property had been made by Paschal in 1867, can
scarcely be explained upon any other hypothesis. The same
may be said of his inattention to the payment of the assessments upon his stock in the San Antonio Gas Company, of
which he had received intimations. From the time Paschal
took charge of his property, in 1865 to 1873, a period of eight
years, he. certainly manifested, if his own story be accepted, a
most extraordinary want of interest in regard to his real property, of great value, situated in an unfriendly community,
subject to taxation, and liable to be sold if the taxes were not
promptly paid; and also in regard to his personal property,
consisting of shares in the San Antonio Gas Company, of great
value, liable to assessments, and to sale if the assessments were
not paid when due. It is much more reasonable to suppose
that he knew of the sales made of the real property and of the
assessments on the shares, and that he was undisturbed by
VOL. IX.

43

PERRIS V. HEXAMER.

[Sup. Ct.

the reports which reached him, because he considered that the
sales were made and the assessments paid from the proceeds,
by his authorized attorney.
The testimony of Bennett tends also to corroborate this
view. lie states that he knew from his correspondence with
Lyon that he treated Paschal as his agent for the sale of his
property. The conduct of Lyon, as expressive almost as any
language which he could use, cannot, of course, change the
construction to be given to the words contained in his letter
to Paschal, but it tends to strengthen the conclusion as to the
intention of the writer.
Holding the letter to confer sufficient authority to contract
for the sale of Lyon's real property in San Antonio, there can
be no doubt of the right of the complainants to the relief
prayed. The deed executed to them by Paschal in the name
of Lyon, though invalid as a conveyance, is good as a contract
for the sale of the property described in it; and is sufficient,
therefore, to sustain the prayer of the bill for a decree directing Lyon to make a conveyance to them and enjoining the
enforcement of the judgment at law.
.Decree affirmed.
NoTE. - In Lyon v. Hernandez, which was argued by the same counsel as was
the preceding case, MR. JUSTICE FIELD, in delivering the opinion of the court,
remarked: This case involves the same question decided in Lyon v. Pollock (supra,
p. 668), and on the authority of that decision the decree herein is affirmed.

PERRIS v. HEXAmTER.
The right of an author or a publisher, under the copyright law, is infringed only
when other persons produce a substantial copy of the whole or of a material
part of the book or other thing for which he secured a copyright. Where,
therefore, the owner of a copyright for maps of certain wards of "the city of
New York, surveyed under the direction of insurance companies of said city,
which exhibit each lot and building, and the classes as shown by the different coloring and characters set forth in the reference," brought his bill to
restrain the publication of similar maps of the city of Philadelphia. Held,
that the bill could not be sustained.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

