Oct. 1878.]

CASE

v.

BEAUREGARD.

from that authorized by the voters. So far as the record
shows, the town has received and retains the consideration for
which they were voted. No bad faith is imputed to any one.
It is true the chairman alone made the actual delivery to the
railroad company; but the presumption is, that what he did
was assented to by the clerk in office at the time. Certainly
it could not have been contemplated that, to make a binding
obligation, both the chairman and clerk must have been present when the delivery to the railroad company was made; and
as the presumption always is, in the absence of any thing to
the contrary, that a public officer while acting in his official
capacity is performing his duty, it must be assumed for all
the purposes of this case that the bonds were delivered to the
railroad company by the chairman with the assent of the clerk,
and, therefore, that they were issued as negotiable instruments
by the proper officers of the town. If the fact was otherwise,
it was incumbent on the town to make the necessary proof.
It is unnecessary to answer any of the other questions certified, further than has already been done. The answer to the
first question is decisive of the case.
Judgment affirmed.

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.
A member of a firm assigned and transferred in good faith his interest in the

partnership property in payment of a just debt for which he was solely liable.
The creditor took possession of it and sold it to A., who, by an act of sale, in
which the other member of the firm united, transferred it for a valuable consideration to B. The firm and the members of it were insolvent. C., claiming
to be a simple-contract creditor of the firm, then filed his bill to subject the
property to the payment of his debt. Held, that C. had no specific lien on

the property, and there being no trust which a court of equity can enforce,
the bill cannot be sustained.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
This suit -was brought July 10, 1869, by Frank F. Case,
receiver of the First National Bank of New Orleans, against
Gustave T. Beauregard, Thomas P. May, Augustus C. Graham,

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

George Binder, Alexander Bonneval, Joseph Hernandez, the
New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company, and the Fourth
National Bank of New York, to recover a debt of $237,000.89,
which he claimed was due from, and had been contracted by,
Beauregard, May, and Graham, while they were partners, and
carrying on business as such; and to have certain transfers of
partnership property set aside and subjected to the payment
of the debt. Beauregard leased, April 12, 1866, from that company its railroad tracks, its rolling-stock, and corporate privileges
for twenty-five years. The lease, although made to him individually, was entered into on his part in view of a partnership
to conduct the enterprise, which on the first of that mouth was
formed between him, May, and Graham, for operating under
that lease the road. By the terms of the partnership, which
was to continue for twenty-five years from the date of the
lease, he was charged with the management of the road, was
to receive only a salary for his services, and when the capital
furnished by May and Graham was reimbursed to them with
eight per cent interest, the partners were to share the profits
equally, and all losses were to be equally borne by them. On
their part, May and Graham were to furnish the requisite capital, fixed at $300,000. Locomotives had been used on the
road, but after the date of the lease the tracks were adapted to
horse-cars, important changes effected, and large purchases of
property ma1e, forthe uses and better equipment of the road,
all of which involved a heavy expenditure of money.
May 16, 1867, May assigned his interest to the United States.
Graham, on the 8th of that month, assigned his interest to
the Fourth National Bank of New York. The bank failed
in that month, and was a creditor of the partnership. The
latter had overdrawn, between Sept. 6, 1866, and May 1, 1867,
the account kept in that institution in the name of Beauregard,
as such lessee. At that time, May was president of the bank.
He directed the treasurer of the partnership to draw upon the
bank without regard to the state of the accounts, and instructed
the paying teller to honor the checks, promising to make
good the deficit. It amounted to the sum for which this suit
was brought. No part of it has ever been paid to the bank.
At one time, May deposited with it, as cash, a demand note for

Oct. 1878.]

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

$40,000, drawn by him as attorney for Beauregard. At another
time, he drew a draft upon Graham for $125,000, which was
also credited upon the account as cash. Neither the draft nor
the note was paid. Both were held by the bank, and were
overdue at the time of its failure.
May had obtained from the assistant treasurer of the United
States at New Orleans public moneys, he knowing them to
be such, for his individual uses. In part payment of this
indebtedness he assigned, with other property, the balance to
his credit on the books of the bank, amounting to $315,779.10,
and his interest in the railroad company, its property and appurtenances, and bound himself to execute any further acts or
instruments necessary to give a complete title to the property
transferred. A few days thereafter, May 16, 1867, he, claiming
to act under a power of attorney from Graham, conveyed, by an
act passed before a notary public of New Orleans, to the United
States "all and singular the right, title, interest, share, property,
claim, and demand of every nature and kind whatsoever, of them,
the said May and Graham, and each of them, in and to the
New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad, the lease and other franchises thereof, and the railroad tracks, rolling-stock, engines,
cars, live-stock, and other appurtenances thereunto belonging
or in any wise appertaining; " the same having been acquired
under the lease and the articles of partnership aforesaid. The
United States was to give him credit for all that should be received from the proceeds of the sale or other disposition of the
interest conveyed.
The United States, Oct. 31, 1867, in consideration of 8228,000, conveyed the property so acquired by said act to Binder,
Bonneval, and Hernandez, andfurther stipulated to save them
harmless from any claim that might be set up by the bank for
$112,009.09, apparently standing to the debit of Beauregard, as
lessee of the road, but which the act declares was due by May,
and to defend the transferees from an assignment of Graham's
interest to the Fourth National Bank of the City of New York.
The transferees assumed the liabilities due and owing by Graham and May, as lessees, on account of the railroad, as set out in
a schedule of direct debt, amounting to $122,852.58, and of prospective debt for additions, $40,000, - making $162,852.58.

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Oct. 15,1867, Binder, Bonneval, and Hernandez joined Beauregard in an agreement or act of fusion with the railroad company,
whereby they surrendered to the latter all interest they had in
the lease of the road and property of the partnership; and the
company, being thus restored to the property and franchises
with which it had parted, entered into the possession thereof.
May, Graham, and Beauregard are insolvent.
An act of the legislature was passed, by which the company
was authorized to scale its present stock, issue additional shares
of its capital stock to the extent of the value of the improvements placed on the road during the partnership, and to consolidate its interests with the other parties. Accordingly the
company increased its stock so as to make it $800,000, of which
one equal moiety, or $400,000, was awarded to Binder, Hernandez, Bonneval, and Beauregard, as representing in their right
the value of the improvements put on the road by the late
partnership, whose interests to the extent of two-thirds had
passed to the purchasers from the United States, the other onethird being owned by Beauregard; and for and in consideration
of the $400,000 of its capital stock, the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company acquired and was put into possession
of all the real estate and other property acquired by the late
partnership of May, Graham, and Beauregard.
For the amount mentioned in his assignment, as standing to
his individual credit, May gave a " certified" check, of which
the United States is the present holder and owner. Of the
amount transferred from the bank to the sub-treasury in New
Orleans, enough was applied to take up a check drawn by May
on the bank, dated Feb. 15, 1867, and forming part of the
assets of the assistant treasurer at New Orleans, and the remainder, $10,378.28, was credited on his check for $315,779.10.
The complainant charges that the First National Bank, being
the creditor of the partnership, had a lien or privilege on its
effects, and was entitled to be paid therefrom to the exclusion
of the creditors of any member of the partnership; that the
partnership was insolvent; that none of its members was able
to pay his individual debts, or authorized to dispose of the partnership property for the payment of such debts; that the deed
to the United States, its deed to Binder, Bonneval, and Hernan-

Oct. 1878.1

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

dez, and the deed of the latter parties and Beauregard to the
railroad company, are in fraud of the rights of the bank as a
creditor of the partnership, and that the same should be cancelled and the partnership property sold to satisfy the prior
and privileged claim of the bank. He prays that Binder, Bonneval, Hernandez, and Beauregard be enjoined from transferring or incumbering their stock in the company, and that the
latter be enjoined from recognizing or permitting such transfer,
and for general relief.
Bonneval, Binder, Hernandez, and the Carrollton Railroad
Company answered, and pleaded the existence of the debt due
from the bank to May as a bar to any claim upon them under
the allegations of the bill.
The Fourth National Bank also answered.
The bill was dismissed on a final hearing, and the complainant appealed here.
Mr. J. -D. Rouse and Mr. Charles Case for the appellant.
The object of the bill is to subject partnership assets to the
payment of a partnership debt. Such assets belong to the
partnership. Each partner is entitled only to a share of what
remains after payment of partnership debts and a settlement
of accounts. Banc v. CarrolltonRailroad, 11 Wall. 628, and
the authorities there cited.
The Code of Louisiana gives a statutory protection to the
rights of a creditor of the partnership, recognizing those which
the courts of chancery have elsewhere established, and adding
thereto in his favor a privilege upon partnership assets. The
latter are a trust fund, or the common pledge of the partnership creditors, who must be paid out of it before the creditors
of the respective partners; and the transfer by one of the latter
in payment of his separate debts is a fraudulent conversion of
the assets, and his creditors take as against those of the firm
no title thereto. Hfagan et al. v. Scott, 10 La. 345; Gardiner
et al. v. Smith, 12 id. 370; Claiborne et al. v. Creditors, 13 id.
279; Bank of Tennessee v. McKeage, 11 Rob. (La.) 130; Moore
v. Hampton et al., 3 La. Ann. 192; Smith v. JcMicken, id. 319;
Saloy v. Albrecht, 17 id. 75; Succession of Beer, 12 id. 698;
-Dwight v. Simon, 4 id. 496.
At the time of the transfer by May of the property in ques-

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

tion, in part payment of his individual indebtedness, his creditor
knew that the partnership was indebted to the bank. All
subsequent purchasers, when they acquired their respective
interests, were cognizant of the same fact. The partnership
and all of its members are insolvent, and its only creditor is
the bank. The partnership property being largely in esse, and
in possession of one of the defendants, is accessible only by the
aid of a court of chancery. The bank has no remedy at law,
and it is not necessary that the claim be established by judgment. The complainant is, therefore, entitled to relief in
equity. Bussellv. Clark's Executors, 7 Craneh, 69; Thurmond
v. Beese, 3 Ga. 449; Croone v. Bivens, 2 Head (Tenn.), 339;
Cornell v. Badway, 22 Wis. 260; Sanderson v. Stockdale, 11
Md. 563; Innes v. Lansing, 7 Paige (N. Y.), 583; O'Brien et
al. v. Coulter et al., 2 Blackf. (Ind.) 421.
Mr. John A. Campbell and _3r. Henry C. Miller for the
appellee.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The object of this bill is to follow and subject to the payment of a partnership debt property which formerly belonged
to the partnership, but which, before the bill was filed, had
been transferred to the defendants. There is little if any
controversy respecting the facts, and little in regard to the
principles of equity invoked by the complainant. The important question is, whether those principles are applicable to the
facts of the case.
No doubt the effects of a partnership belong to it so long as
it continues in existence, and not to the individuals who compose it. The right of each partner extends only to a share
of what may remain after payment of the debts of the firm
and the settlement of its accounts. Growing out of this right,
or rather included in it, is the right to have the partnership
property applied to the payment of the partnership debts in
preference to those of any individual partner. This is an
equity the partners have as between themselves, and in certain circumstances it inures to the benefit of the creditors of
the firm. The latter are said to have a privilege or preference,

Oct. 1878.]

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

sometimes loosely denominated a lien, to have the debts due
to them paid out of the assets of a firm in course of liquidation, to the exclusion of the creditors of its several members.
Their equity, however, is a derivative one. It is not held or
enforceable in their own right. It is practically a subrogation
to the equity of the individual partner, to be made effective
only through him. Hence, if he is not in a condition to
enforce it, the creditors of the firm cannot be. Bice v. Barnard et al., 20 Vt. 479; Appeal of the York County Bank,
32 Pa. St. 446. But so long as the equity of the partner
remains in him, so long as he retains an interest in the firm
assets, as a partner, a court of equity will allow the creditors
of the firm to avail themselves of his equity, and enforce,
through it, the application of those assets primarily to payment of the debts due them, whenever the property comes
under its administration.
It is indispensable, however, to such relief, when the creditors are, as in the present case, simple-contract creditors, that
the partnership property should be within the control of the
court and in the course of administration, brought there by
the bankruptcy of the firm, or by an assignment, or by the
creation of a trust in some mode. This is because neither
the partners nor the joint creditors have any specific lien, nor
is there any trust that can be enforced until the property has
passed in eustodiam legis. Other property can be followed
only after a judgment at law has been obtained and an execution has proved fruitless.
So, if before the interposition of the court is asked the
property has ceased to belong to the partnership, if by a bona
fide transfer it has become the several property either of one
partner or of a third person, the equities of the partners are
extinguished, and consequently the derivative equities of the
creditors are at an end. It is, therefore, always essential to
any preferential right of the creditors that there shall be
property owned by the partnership when the claim for preference is sought to be enforced. Thus, in Ex parte Buffin
(6 Ves. 119), where from a partnership of two persons one
retired, assigning the partnership property to the other, and
taking a bond for the value and a covenant of indemnity

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

against debts, it was ruled by Lord Eldon that the joint
creditors had no equity attaching upon partnership effects,
even remaining in specie. And such has been the rule generally accepted ever since, -with the single qualification that
the assignment of the retiring partner is not mala fide. Kimball v. Thompson, 13 Mete. (Mass.) 283; Allen v. The Centre
Valley Company et al., 21 Conn. 130; Ladd v. Griswold, 9 Ill.
25; Smith v. .Edwards, 7 Humph. (Tenn.) 106; B obb and
Others v. iludge and Another, 14 Gray (Mass.), 534; Baker's
Appeal, 21 Pa. St. 76; Sigler & .Riehey v. Knox County Bank,
8 Ohio St. 511; Wilcox v. Kellogg, 11 Ohio, 394.
The joint estate is converted into the separate estate of the
assignee by force of the contract of assignment. And it makes
no difference whether the retiring partner sells to the other
partner or to a third person, or whether the sale is made by
him or under a judgment against him. In either case his
equity is gone. These principles are settled by very abundant
authorities. It remains, therefore, only to consider whether,
in view of the rules thus settled and of the facts of this
case, the complainant, through any one of the partners, has a
right to follow the specific property which formerly belonged
to the partnership, and compel its application to the payment
of the debt due from the firm to the bank of which he is the
receiver.
The partnership, while it was in existence, was composed
of three persons, May, Graham, and Beauregard, but it had
ceased to exist before this suit was commenced. It was
entirely insolvent, and all the partnership effects had been
transferred to others for valuable considerations.
None of
the property was ever within the jurisdiction of the court for
administration.
On the 8th of May, 1867, Graham, one of the partners,
assigned all his right and interest in any property and effects
of the partnership, and whatever he might be entitled to under
the articles thereof, together with all debts due to him from
the partnership or any member thereof, to the Fourth National
Bank of the City of New York. By subsequent assignments,
made on the 14th and 16th of May, 1869, May, the second
partner, transferred all his interest in the partnership property

Oct. 1878.]

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

to the United States, and by the same instruments transferred
to the United States, by virtue of a power of attorney which
he held, the interest of Graham. On the 21st of August,
1867, the United States sold and transferred their interest
obtained from May and Graham in all the partnership property, including real estate, to Alexander Bonneval, Joseph
Hernandez, and George Binder. On the 15th of October next
following, an act of fusion was executed b~tween the New
Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company, Beauregard, Bonneval, Hernandez, and Binder, by which the rights of all the
parties became vested in the railroad company, subject to the
debts and liabilities of the company, whether due or claimed
from the lessee or the stockholders.
The effect of these transfers and act of fusion was very clearly
to convert the partnership property into property held in severalty, or, at least, to terminate the equity of any partner to
require the application thereof to the payment of the joint
debts. Hence if, as we have seen, the equity of the partnership
creditors can be worked out only through the equity of the
partners, there was no such equity of the partners, or any one
of them, as is now claimed, in 1869, when this bill was filed.
No one of the partners could then insist that the property
should be applied first to the satisfaction of the joint debts, for
his interest in the partnership and its assets had ceased.
Baker's Appeal, 21 Pa. St. 823. That was a case where a firm
had consisted of five brothers. Two of them withdrew, disposing of their interest in the partnership estate and effects to the
other three, the latter agreeing to pay the debts of the firm.
Some time after, one of the remaining three sold his interest in
the partnership property to one of the remaining two partners.
The two remaining, after contracting debts, made an assignment of their partnership property to pay the debts of the last
firm composed of the two; and it was held that the creditors of
the first two firms had no right to claim any portion of the
fund last assigned, and that it was distributable exclusively
among the creditors of the last firm. So in Me2Nutt v. Strayorn
d? Hobson (89 id. 269), it was ruled that though the general rule
is that the equities of the creditors are to be worked out through
the equities of the partners, yet where the property is parted

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

with by sale severally made, and neither partner has dominion
or possession, there is nothing through which the equities of
the creditors can work, and, therefore, there is no case for the
application of the rule. See also Coover's A peal, 29 id. 9.
Unless, therefore, the conveyances of the partners in this case
and the act of fusion were fraudulent, the bank of which the
complainant is receiver has no claim upon the property now held
by the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad Company, arising
out of the facts that it is a creditor of the partnership, and
was such a creditor when the property belonged to the firm.
The bill, it is true, charges that the several transfers of the
partners were illegal and fraudulent, without specifying wherein
the fraud consisted. The charge seems to be only a legal conclusion from the fact that some of the transfers were made for
the payment of the private debts of the assignors. Conceding
such to have been the case, it was a fraud upon the other partners, if a fraud at all, rather than upon the joint creditors, - a
fraud which those partners could waive, and which was subsequently waived by the act of fusion. Besides, that act made
provision for some of the debts of the partnership. And it has
been ruled that where one of two partners, with the consent of
the other, sells and conveys one half of the effects of the firm
to a third person, and the other partner afterwards sells and
conveys the other half to the same person, such sale and conveyances are not prima facie void, as against creditors of the
firm, but are prima facie valid against all the world, and can
be set aside by the creditors of the firm only by proof that
the transactions were fraudulent as against them. Kimball v.
Thompson, 13 Mete. (Mass.) 283; F'lach et al. v. Charron et al.,
29 Md. 311. A similar doctrine is asserted in some of the
other cases we have cited; and see 21 Conn. 130. In the present case we find no such proof. We discover nothing to impeach the bona fides of the transaction, by which the property
became vested in the railroad company.
Thus far we have considered the case without reference to
the provisions of the Louisiana Code, upon which the appellant
relies. Art. 2823 of the Code is as follows: "The partnership property is liable to the creditors Qf the partnership in
preference to those of the individual partner." We do not

Oct. 1878.]

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

perceive that this provision differs materially from the general
rule of equity we have stated. It creates no specific lien upon
partnership property, which continues after the property has
ceased to belong to the partnership. It does not forbid bona
fide conversion by the partners of the joint property into rights
in severalty, held by third persons. It relates to partnership
property alone, and gives a rule for marshalling such property
between creditors. Concede that it gives to joint creditors a
privilege while the property belongs to the partnership, there
is no subject upon which it can act when the joint ownership
of the partners has ceased. Art. 3244 of the Code declares
that privileges become extinct "by the extinction of the thing
subject to the privilege."
What we have said is sufficient for a determination of the
case. If it be urged, as was barely intimated during the argument, that the property sought to be followed belongs in equity
to the bank, or is clothed with a trust for the bank, because it
was purchased with the bank's money, the answer is plain.
There is no satisfactory evidence that it was thus purchased.
It cannot be identified as the subject to the acquisition of
which money belonging to the bank was applied.
The bank has, therefore, no specific claim upon the property,
nor is there any trust which a court of equity can enforce; and
it was well said by the circuit justice, that, without some constituted trust or lien, "a creditor has only the right to prosecute
his claim in the ordinary courts of law, and have it adjudicated
before he can pursue the property of his debtor by a direct proceeding" in equity.
.Decree affirmed.

VOL.

M

