UNITED

STATES V. WINCHESTER.

UNITED STATES V. W

[Sup. Ct.

-NCHESTER.

1. The admiralty jurisdiction of the district courts of the United States does
not extend to seizures made on land.
2. The Abandoned and Captured Property Act of March 12, 1863 (12 Stat. 820),
did not repeal the act approved July 17, 1862 (id. 589), entitled "An Act to
suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes."
3. The order of the President for the seizure, under said act of July 17, 1862,
of the property of persons engaged in armed rebellion against the United
States, or in aiding and abetting the rebellion, is a prerequisite to the exercise by the District Court of its jurisdiction to adjudge the forfeiture and
decree the condemnation of such property.
4. Cotton found on land in Miississippi was, Feb. 18, 1863, seized by the naval
forces of the United States, without the order of the President, and delivered by an officer of the navy to the marshal of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois. A libel was filed in the District Court for
that district, alleging as the ground of seizure that the cotton belonged to
a person in armed rebellion against the United States. The cotton was
sold, and a decree rendered, whereby one half of the proceeds was paid
into the treasury of the United States, and the other half ordered to be
paid to the officer as informer, who declined to accept it, and the check
therefor was deposited with the assistant treasurer at St. Louis, on whom
it had been drawn. At the instance of the admiral, the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia sitting in admiralty took jurisdiction of the
case, and ordered the check to be deposited with the assistant treasurer
at Washington, and the money to remain in his hands subject to the further order of the court. The check was so deposited, and the court by
its decree distributed the money to the captors. field, that the decrees
were void, and that the owner of the cotton was entitled to recover the net
proceeds of the sale of it.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

The Attorney-C@eneral for the appellants.
r1T.
Joseph S. Fowler and .H. John Pool, contra.
MR. JUSTIoE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The claimant is the surviving executor of the 'will of John
C. Jenkins, who died in 1855, leaving four minor children, and
possessed of a plantation in the State of Mississippi, on the
Mississippi River, above Vicksburg. By directions in the will,
the plantation was to be cultivated by the representatives of
the estate for the benefit of the testator's children.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. WINCHESTER.

On the 18th of February, 1863, there was on this plantation
belonging to the estate and raised thereon according to the
provisions of the will, a quantity of cottoh, one hundred and
sixty-eight bales of which %oreon that day seized by the naval
forces of the United States, and taken on board of a government steamer. The cotton was then carried to Johnson's Landing, on the river, and thence to Milliken's Bend; where, with
other cotton, making in all two hundred and fifty-eight bales,
it was shipped on board of the transport "Rowena," by order of
Admiral Porter, who was in command of the naval forces on
the Mississippi.
In March following, the admiral reported the capture of this
cotton to the Secretary of the Navy, and was informed, in
reply, that all property captured as "prize property" must be
sent to a prize court for adjudication, and be disposed of as
the court might decree; and that the disposition of captured
"abandoned property" was provided for by an act of Congress
of March 12, 1863. The cotton was thereupon sent to Cairo,
where it arrived on the 7th of April, 1863, and was delivered
to Captain Pennock, commanding at the station, and was by
him turned over to the United States marshal of the district.
Soon afterwards, upon information given by Captain Pennock,
the United States district attorney filed a.libel in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois
for the condemnation and sale of the cotton as forfeited to the
United States. The libel stated that the seizure was made by
order of Admiral Porter, on the Mississippi River, that river
"being a public water of the United States, navigable to the
sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden ;" and that the seizure was made for violation of the Non-Intercourse Act of July
13, 1861, and the proclamation of the President of Aug. 16,
1861; and because the property belonged to a person in armed
rebellion against th government of the United States; and
that the case was within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
court. The case then proceeded, in accordance with the forms
of admiralty practice and entitled as in admiralty, to a decree
condemning the property as forfeited to the United States.
The decree was subsequently opened as to part of the property,
and the libel was amended by striking out the first allegation

UNITED STATES v. WINCHESTER.

[Sup. Ot.

as to the Non-Intercourse Act, which was inapplicable to the
cotton belonging to the estate of Jenkins and seized on his
plantation.
Pending the proceedings, the eotton was sold, and by the
decree one half of the proceeds was paid into the treasury, and
the other half ordered to be paid to Captain Pennock, as informer, to whom a check for that amount -was delivered.
Captain Pennock handed the check to Admiral Porter, his
superior officer. The admiral, unwilling to receive or keep it
as informer, sent it to the Secretary of the Navy, requesting
that the money might be distributed among the officers and
crews of the Mississippi squadron as captors. The secretary
refused to distribute the money, and returned the check to the
admiral, and he deposited it with the assistant treasurer at St.
Louis, upon whom it was drawn.
Treating the proceedings in the District Court as in admiralty, they are without validity. The admiralty jurisdiction
of the District Court extends only to seizures on navigable
waters, not to seizures on land. The difference is important,
as cases in admiralty are tried without a jury, whilst in cases
at law the parties are entitled to a jury, unless one is waived.
United States v. Betsey, 4 Crauch, 443 ; The Sarah, 8 Wheat.
391.
But it is contended by the Attorney-General that the proceedings, however loose and defective in form, can be sustained
under the Confiscation Act of July 17, 1862, upon the charge
that the property was seized as belonging to a person in armed
rebellion against the government of the United States. Assuming that upon a vague allegation of this kind, without
designation of the owner, and with an erroneous statement in
the libel of the place of seizure, a valid decree of condemnation could be rendered under the act of 1862, previous to the
passage of the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, it is contended on the part of the claimant that by the passage of this
act the provisions for confiscating property, in the act of 1862,
are impliedly repealed, as being repugnant to those of the
latter act. We do not think so. We agree with the Court of
Claims on this point.
The whole scope and purpose of the two acts are different.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. WINCHESTER.

The first act provides for the punishment of treason, the seizure,
condemnation, and sale of property of persons engaged in the
rebellion, and the payment of the proceeds into the treasury, to
be applied to the support of the army of the United States. It
was directed against persons committing certain overt acts of
treason, and against their property. Its object was to punish
the persons and to confiscate their property, and contemplated
in the latter proceedings equally as in the former the intervention of judicial authority.
The second act was designed to reach all property, with few
exceptions, in the insurgent States, seized or taken from hostile
possession by the military or naval forces of the United States,
whether belonging to friends or enemies, as well as property
taken while the owner was voluntarily absent and engaged in
aiding or encouraging the rebellion. It provided for a sale of
the property thus capture4 or abandoned without judicial proceedings, and the payment of the proceeds into the treasury,
allowing the loyal owner who had never given aid or comfort
to the rebellion the privilege of pursuing the proceeds in the
Court of Claims. There was also a marked difference in the
effect of the proceedings under the two acts. The Confiscation
Act authorized proceedings only against the interest of the
disloyal owner; the Captured and Abandoned Property Act
directed the seizure of the property itself; and its sale carried
the title against all claimants. The former also took the property wherever it was found; the latter only in the insurgent
States. The former, as respects property, had all the merciless
features inseparable from a war measure, and treated as enemies, whose property could be confiscated, all residents within
the insurgent States; the latter had this beneficent provision,
that it made a discrimination among those whom the rule of
international law classes as enemies, in favor of those who,
though resident within the hostile territory, maintained in fact
a loyal adhesion to the government. The two act can stand
together, and the Confiscation Act be enforced as to all property
seized under its provisions. The position of the claimant, as to
an implied repeal from a supposed repugnancy of the provisions
of the two acts, is not, therefore, tenable.
But upon another ground, apparent upon the face of the

UNITED STATES V. WINCHESTER.

[Sup. 0t.

record, the proceedings and decree of the District Court cannot
be sustained. There was no previous seizure of the property
under any order of the executive; and such seizure was an
essential preliminary to give jurisdiction to the court to adjudge
its forfeiture and decree its condemnation. The executive
seizure is the foundation of all subsequent proceedings under
the Confiscation Act. Such is the plain import of the law, and
it was so held by this court in Pelham v. Rose, 9 Wall. 103,
and reaffirmed in T]ie Confiscation Cases, 20 id. 92. Here the
property was seized by the naval forces of the United States
upon the notion that being property in the enemies' country, it
was subject to capture as a prize of war. The Secretary of the
Navy, when informed of the capture, instructed the admiral in
command that the disposition of captured abandoned property
was provided for by the act of March 12, 1863, evidently regarding the property as coming within that class, if not "prize
property." No seizure by executive order is alleged in the
libel, for none such was made. The seizure alleged is one
made by the naval forces, and even that is stated to have been
made at a place other than the plantation of the testator. No
validity can be ascribed to a decree by a court which thus
never had the property rightfully before it for condemnation.
For one-half of the proceeds of the sale paid into the treasury
under the decree the claimant is, therefore, clearly entitled to
judgment.
As to the remaining half also we have no doubt. The check
which Captain Pennock received under the decree of the court,
included not only one-half of the proceeds of the claimant's
cotton, but of cotton libelled in other cases, amounting in the
whole to $59,943.42. The admiral of the squadron to whom
Captain Pennock turned over the check, desired, as already
stated, that the money should be distributed among the officers
and crews of the Mississippi squadron as captors; and when the
Secretary of the Navy declined to make the distribution, he
deposited the check with the assistant treasurer at St. Louis,
upon whom it was drawn. Subsequently, in July 1864, the
admiral invoked the aid of the District Court of the District of
Columbia to make the distribution, and placed in the hands
of the district attorney a certificate stating that the amount

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. WINCHESTER.

decreed to him as informer, namely, $59,943.42, was on deposit
with the assistant treasurer at St. Louis, and expressing his
wish as to the distribution of the money, accompanying the
certificate with a check for the amount. The District Court
took jurisdiction in admiralty of the case, and ordered the
check to be deposited by the marshal with the assistant treasurer at Washington, and that the money should remain in his
hands subject to the further order of the court. The check was
accordingly deposited with the assistant treasurer, and by a subsequent decree the court ordered the money to be distributed as
desired, after the payment of certain costs and disbursements
incurred in the proceedings.
It is not a question upon which contention can arise that
these proceedings of the District Court of the District of Columbia were extra-jurisdictional from beginning to end; and
indeed it is apparent from inspection of the decree that the
court, assuming as valid the action of the Illinois court, proceeded to distribute the money more upon the request of the
admiral than upon any authority conferred by law. The
decree of distribution signed by the Chief Justice of the District Court shows the kind disposition of a learned magistrate
to carry out the generous intentions of a gallant admiral to
distribute among the officers and crew under his command
money awarded to him as informer, but which he refused to
take in that character, without assuming any authority beyond
what the admiral implored him to exercise. But as the Illinois
court had no jurisdiction to award to the admiral or his captain
the money thus generously distributed, we are of opinion that
the claimant must have judgment for the amount as well as
for the other moiety of the proceeds of the cotton belonging to
the estate of his testator.
In the views thus expressed we have merely stated, in brief,
the conclusions of the Court of Claims. In the opinion of that
court the questions are so fully, clearly, and exhaustively discussed as to leave nothing to be added.
Judgment affirmed.

