Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co.

V. ALLING.

RAILWAY CQI-:PANY v. ALLING.

DENVER AND Rio GRANDE RAILWAY COIPANY V. CANON
CITY AND SAN JUAN RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. Where the trustees or directors of a corporation have appealed from a decree,
and directed their counsel to prosecute the appeal, this court will not dismiss it on the motion of strangers to the decree who, since it was rendered,
have become the owners of a majority of the stock of the corporation.
2. Such trustees or directors are in law the managers of the property and affairs
of the corporation. As such they, in alllitigation involving its action,
represent it, its stockholders and creditors. If they violate their trust, the
remedy must be sought in some court of original jurisdiction.
3. An act entitled "An Act granting the right of way through the public lands to
the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company," approved June 8, 1872 (17
Stat. 339) ; an act amendatory thereof, approved March 3, 1877 (19 Stat.
405) ; and an act entitled "An Act granting to railroads the right of way
through the public lands of the United States," approved March 3, 1875
(18 Stat. 482), - considered with reference to the conflicting claims of the
Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company, and the Caion City and San
Juan Railway Company, to occupy and use the Grand or Big Cation of the
Arkansas for railroad purposes. Held, 1. That said act of 1872 granted an
immediate beneficial easement in a particular way over which the routes
designated in the charter of the Denver Company lay, capable, however, of
enjoyment only when such way should actually and in good faith be appropriated for the purposes contemplated by that charter, and then the title
thereto would take effect by relation as of the date of the act. 2. That
that company finally appropriated the right of way through the canon
April 9, 1878, and was by its prior occupancy entitled to the benefits conferred by said act of 1872. 3. That both companies should be allowed to
proceed with the construction of their respective roads through said cafion
where it is broad enough for them to do so without interfering with each
other; but where, in the narrow portions of the defile, this is impracticable, the court below, while recognizing and enforcing the prior title of the
Denver Company, should, by proper orders, secure upon just and equitable
terms the right of the Calion City Company, under said act of 1875, to use,
in common with the Denver Company, the same road-bed and track, after
the same shall have been completed.
0

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Colorado.
These causes involve the conflicting claims of two railroad
corporations - the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company
and the Cafion City and San Juan Railway Company-to
occupy and use the Grand or Big Canon of the Arkansas for

IRAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

[Sup. Ct.

railroad purposes. For the sake of brevity, the former will be
hereafter designated as the Denver Company, and the latter as
the Cailon City Company.
The Denver Company was incorporated in the year 1870, in
conformity to the laws of the then Territory of Colorado. Its
object, expressed in the articles of incorporation filed in the
proper office of the Territory, was to locate, construct, operate,
and maintain certain railway and telegiaph lines; viz., the
Denver and Rio Grande Railway, the Denver and Southern Railway, the South Park Railway, the Western Colorado Railway,
the Mforena Valley Railway, the San Juan Railway, the Gallesto
Railway, and the Santa Rita Railway. The general route of
each line was designated in the articles of incorporation. That
of the main line -the
as follows: -

Denver and Rio Grande Railway

-was

"Commencing at Denver, Colorado Territory, thence running up
the valley of the South Platte River, on the southeast side thereof,
to a point at or near the mouth of Plum Creek; thence up the

valley of Plum Creek, to a point at or near the forks of East Plum
Creek and West Plum Creek; thence up the main east branch of
Plum Creek Valley to the lake in township 11, range 67 west, on
the east of the ridge dividing the waters of Plum Creek and Monument Creek; thence down the valley of Monument Creek to a
point at or near the junction of the valleys of the Monument and
Fountain qui boujile, or to a point in the Fountain Valley, below
the mouth of the Monument, if the detailed survey shall determine
the latter to be the most eligible ; thence by the valley of the Fountain or across its west tributaries to such a point on the Arkansas
River at or above Pueblo as may be found upon a detailed survey
to be the most eligible for intersecting the same; thence up the
valley of the Arkansas to a point at or near Ca~on City; thence
continuing up the valley of the Arkansas through the Big Ca~on
of the same to apoint at or near the mouth of the Arkansas Biver ;
thence by the valleys or the adjoining slopes of the Arkansas River
and of Pueblo Creek to the summit of the divide between the
waters of the Arkansas and the San Luis Park (known as Poncho
Pass) ; thence by the most eligible route in a general southerly direction down the San Luis Valley to the valley of the Rio Grande
del Norte; thence in a general southerly direction, by the particular
route which may be determined upon by a detailed survey to be

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

most eligible, down the valley of the Rio Grande to the southern
boundary of Colorado ; thence continuing down the valley of the
Rio Grande, on either side of the river, as may be found expedient,
or crossing from one side to the other when desirable, to El Paso,
in the State of Chihuahua, with the priv'ilege of consolidating or
uniting with and operating any connecting railway in the Republic
of Mexico."
The remaining seven rdads are, or were intended to be,
branches or feeders of the main line.
By an act of Congress, approved June 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 339),
"the right of way over the public domain, one hundred feet in
width, on each side of the track, together with such public lands
adjacent thereto as may be needed for depots, shops, and other
buildings for railroad purposes, and for yard-room and sidetracks, not exceeding twenty acres at any one station, and not
more than one station in every ten miles, and the right to take
from the public lands adjacent thereto stone, timber, earth,
water, and other material required for the construction and repair of its railway and telegraph line," was granted and confirmed
unto the Denver Company, its successors and assigns. The act
describes the company as a corporation created under the incorporation laws of the Territory of Colorado, and grants, ratifies, and confirms to it all the rights, powers, and franchises
conferred by those laws on corporations created thereunder for
constructing and operating railroad and telegraph lines, for the
extension and operation of its railway and telegraph lines in
and through any contiguous territory of the United States, to
the northern boundary line of Mexico, subject to the conditions
and requirements of the territorial statutes so far as the same
were applicable and not inconsistent with the laws of the United
States. The act, also, gave to the company the rights, powers,
and privileges conferred upon the Union Pacific Railroad Company by sect. 3 of the act of July 2, 1864. But the rights thus
granted and conferred were accompanied by the proviso that
the company should complete its railway to a point on the Rio
Grande as far south as Santa F4, within five years after the
passage of the act; and complete each year thereafter fifty miles
additional south of that point.
VOL. IX.

30

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

[Sup. Ct.

By an act approved March 3, 1875 (18 id. 576), that of
June 8, 1872, was corrected by adding thereto a proviso, which
was declared to have been omitted by mistake of the copyist.
That proviso enacts, among other things, that the " Denver
and Rio Grande Railway Company is hereby recognized as a
lawful corporation from the date of its incorporation under the
laws of Colorado, and all the powers, privileges, and franchises
by said laws conferred upon said co~npany are hereby expressly
ratified, confirmed, and legalized as existing from the said date
of incorporation."
On the same day, Congress passed an act "granting to railroads a 'right of way through the public lands of the United
States.'" 18 Stat. 482. It grants that right to any railroad
"company duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory, except the Districb of Columbia, or by Congress, which
shall have filed with the Secretary of the Interior a copy of
its articles of incorporation, and due proofs of its organization
under the same, to the extent of one hundred feet on each side
of the central line of said road; also the right to take from the
public lands adjacent to line of the road, material, &c., necessary for the construction of the road, and grounds for station
buildings, depots, machine-shops, side-tracks, turn-outs, and
water stations," &c.
The second section provides :"That any railroad company whose right of way, or whose track
or road-bed upon such right of way, passes through any caton,
pass, or defile, shall not prevent any other railroad company fiom
the use and occupancy of said cafion, pass, or defile, for the purposes of its road, in common with the road first located, or the
crossing of other railroads at grade. And the location of such
right of way through any caion, pass, or defile shall not cause the
disuse of any wagon or other public highway now located therein,
nor prevent the location through the same of any such wagon road
or highway where such road or highway may be necessary for the
public accommodation; and where any change in the location of
such wagon road is necessary to permit the passage of such railroad through any cafion, pass, or defile, said railroad company shall,
before entering upon the ground occupied by such wagon road,
cause the same to be reconstructed at its own expense in the most

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

favorable location, and in as perfect a manner as the original road:
Provided, that such expenses shall be equitably divided between
any number of railroad companies occupying and using the same
caflon, pass, or defile."
Section 4 declares that any railroad company desiring to
secure the benefits, of that act shall, "within twelve months
after the location of any section of twenty miles of its road, if
the same be upon surveyed lands, and, if upon unsurveyed
lands, within twelve months after the survey thereof by the
United States, file with the register of the land-office for the
district where such land is located, a profile of its road; and
upon the approval thereof by the Secretary of the Interior,"
the same was required to "be noted upon the plats in said
office, and thereafter all such lands ovei which such right of
way passes should be disposed of subject to such right of way."
All rights thereby granted to be forfeited as to any section
located but uncompleted within five years after such location.
On Feb. 15, 1877, Alling, Locke, and Megrue became incorporated lnder the laws of Colorado as "The Caion City
and San Juan Railway Company," with a capital stock of
$100,000, for the purpose of constructing and maintaining a
railroad from Caion City, thence up the valley of the Arkansas River through the Grand Caion thereof, thence, by the
most practicable route, following that river to South Arkansas
post-office in Lake County, Colorado. The articles of incorporation were filed in the office of the Secretary of State of
Colorado, Feb. 19, 1877. The Secretary of the Interior, in
an official communication, declared, June 22, 1877, his approval of the proofs of organization filed by that company,
and of the map showing the line of its road for a distance
of twenty miles.
Congress, March 8, 1877, passed an act amending that of
June 8, 1872, so as to read that the Denver Company should
have ten years, from the passage of the original act, to complete
its road as far south as Santa F6, in default of which, as to the
unfinished part of it, the rights and privileges granted should
be null and void.
The Caion City Company filed, April 20, 1878, its complaint
against the Denver Company, in the Third Judicial District

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

[Sup. Ct.

Court of Colorado, Fremont County, claiming that it had complied, in all respects, with the act of Congress of March 3, 1875,
and acquired a prior right to construct its road through the
Grand Caion, one hundred feet on each side of its line as surveyed in 1877, and charging that the defendant was interfering
with the construction of its road upon that line.
In accordance with the prayer of the bill, an injunction was
granted by the State court restraining the defendant from
interfering with its further operations in the caion. That suit,
upon the petition of the defendant, was, April 22, 1878, removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
The Denver Company, April 27, 1878, filed its bill in the
latter court, against Ailing and others, who are designated in
the charter of the Caion City Company as its trustees for the
first year, and against the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railway Company, charging that the Calon City Company
was not a legally constituted corporation; that the individual
defendants, wrongfully claiming to be such corporation, had, by
force, occupied the Grand Caron, and were proceeding to locate
their road upon a line in that cafion which the complainant had
surveyed in 1871-72, and upon which it had made preparations
to resume active work on the 19th of April, 1878; that, although
it was in the occupancy of the narrow portion of the cation,
where only one road could be located, the defendants threatened by force to drive away its engineers and servants then
working in said cation, and thereby dispossess it of its located
line and grade in the narrow part of said caion; that the defendants were aided and abetted in said course by the Atchison,
Topeka, and Santa F6 Railway Company, who, seeking to build
a road from Pueblo, by the valley of the Arkansas, and through
said caion, had to that end confederated with the defendants to
compel the complainant to abandon the extension of its railway
as authorized by its charter and the act of Congress. The complainant, by its bill, claimed an exclusive right of way through
the Big Caion, upon the line of its survey, and one hundred
feet upon each side of its road, and to that effect relief was
asked by final decree. In that suit a temporary injunction
was granted against the Caron City Company, restraining it

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

from occupying or attempting to occupy the Big Caflon, and
from, in any way or manner, constructing or attempting to
survey, locate, or construct their line of railroad through the
caion, which, for the purposes of that suit, was taken and
decreed to begin at what is known as the "Point of Rocks,"
at the mouth of the cation, and extending to the twelve-mile
bridge. That injunction was subsequently modified and limited
in its operation to that part of the canion known as the Royal
Gorge, and the defendant was allowed to enter upon that part
of the cation and grade the same for a railroad, but not to lay
ties or rails on any part thereof until the future order of the
court.
In the suit instituted by the Cation City Company, the Denver Company filed a cross-bill, setting up substantially the same
facts as in its original bill against Alling and others, and a
decree was rendered, which, among other things, recognized
the prior right of the former to proceed in the construction and
operation of its road through the Grand Caiion, without interference or obstruction, in any way, by the Denver Company,
but with liberty to the latter to exhibit its bill in any court of
competent jurisdiction to compel the Caion City Company to
so change, locate, and construct its road as to permit the convenient and proper location by the Denver Company of its own
road, or to compel the Caion City Company to permit the
Denver Company to occupy the track and roadway of the former company, if at any point in that defile it should be impracticable to conveniently lay down or safely operate two distinct
lines of railway. From that decree the Denver Company appealed, and it also appealed from the decree in its own suit,
dissolving the preliminary injunction granted to it, and dismissing its bill.
The case was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. John
P. Usher, Mr. Eanson A. Bisley, and Hr. James Grant for the
appellants, and by Mr. I. . Teller and Mr. Charles -E. Gast
for the appellees.
The motions, made after the submission of the case, which
are mentioned in the opinion of the court, were argued by Mr.
Sidney Bartlett and Mr. -. B. Hoar in support of them, and by
M. Lyman K. Bass and Mr. James Grant,contra.

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE IARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A preliminary question, presented for our consideration, must
be first disposed of.
These causes were determined in the Circuit Court, by final
decree, Aug. 24, 1878. Upon stipulation between the parties
they were submitted here on the 10th of January last. On
the 20th of January it was represented to this court, in proper
form, that the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company
owned a railroad which, with its branches and extensions, is a
continuation, in Colorado, of the line of the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Railroad Company in Kansas; that certain contracts and arrangements had, with the consent of the appellees
in both suits, and after the filing of that stipulation, been entered
into between the Denver Company, the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Railroad Company, and the Pueblo and Arkansas
Valley Railroad Company, and had been in part executed after
the filing of the printed arguments herein; that by said contracts and arrangements the Atchison, Topeka, and Sante F6
Railroad Company had taken a lease of all the constructed
lines of the Denver Company for thirty years from Dec. 1,
1878, and was then in the possession of and operating them;
had purchased and received all the railroad supplies and
materials of that company; had purchased and transferred to a
trustee for its use a majority of all the shares of the capital
stock of that company, with an agreement providing for a further purchase and ownership of the remainder of them, and with
the further agreement that the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley
Railroad Company and the Atchison, Topeka, and Sante F6
Railroad Company should have the selection of a majority of
the directors of the Denver Company, the other third being
selected by the bondholders of the latter company; that those
contracts and agreements were made with the intent and
design of ending all controversies, and especially all competitive construction of railroad lines, between the Denver Company on the one part, and the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railroad Company and the roads operated by it, including the
Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company, on the other
part; that, by reason of the premises, the Atchison, Topeka,

Oc.1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

and Santa F6 Railroad Company, in its own right, and in connection with the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company, had become and was equitably the owner and entitled to
the control of all the affairs, suits, interests, and property of
the Denver Company, and especially to the discontinuance of
all litigation hostile to the interests of the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Railroad Company and the Pueblo and Arkansas
Valley Railroad Company. Upon these grounds the Pueblo
and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company (the present name of
the Cation City Company), and Alling and others, appellees,
moved the court that the stipulation for the submission of these
causes, upon printed arguments, be cancelled and discharged,
such printed arguments withdrawn from the files, and the
appeals dismissed. Upon the part of the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Railroad Company a motion was submitted that
it be allowed to intervene and take charge of these suits in the
name of the Denver Company, and appear by its solicitor, on
behalf of the appellants, that it may give consent, of record, to
the dismissal of the appeals. The trustee referred to in the
alleged contracts gave his consent to the motions, and their
hearing was set for the 20th of March, this court, in the mean
time, suspending any action upon the appeals. At that date
the Denver Company appeared by its attorneys and resisted
each motion.
Upon the hearing of the motions it appeared, among other
things, that on the first day of March, 1879, the Denver Company had issued 85,000 shares of stock, of which the plaintiffs
in the motions claimed to own or control a bare majority, 42,510 shares. It was also shown that, at a meeting of the
directors of the Denver Company, held on Feb. 7, 1879, a
quorum being present, resolutions were unanimously adopted,
declaring that these motions were hostile to the interests of
that company; that the claims of the Atchison, Topeka, and
Santa F6 Railroad Company and the Pueblo and Arkansas
Valley Railroad Company were unfounded, and their assertion
for the fraudulent purpose of depriving the Denver Company,
its stockholders and creditors, of valuable rights, interests, and
property, without compensation. The resolutions instructed
the president and the attorneys of the company not only to

RAILWAY

Co. v. ALLING.

[Sup. ct.

oppose these motions, but, by all legal means, prevent the dismissal of these appeals, or the intervention herein for any purpose of any company or person not a party to the record.
They were also required to prosecute the appeals in this court
with the utmost diligence. At the argument of the motions,
copies of all the contracts, resolutions, and writings relied upon
by the respective parties were submitted for our examination.
'Upon careful consideration of the suggestions of learned counsel, we do not doubt that it is our duty to decline any expression of opinion as to the effect or proper construction of the
numerous documents which, it is claimed, give the plaintiffs in
the motions the right to have the appeals of the Denver Company dismissed. It is apparent that there are serious differences among the stockholders of that company, not only as to
its general policy in the future, but as to the validity and
interpretation of the contracts and writings under which the
Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company and the
Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company claim to be
equitably the owners, and entitled to the control of the affairs,
property, and suits of the Denver Company. We cannot now
enter that field of controversy. The present appeals are being
prosecuted to final judgment by order of the directors or
trustees of the appellant corporation. To them, by law, is
committed the management of the property and concerns of
the corporation. In all litigation involving the action of the
corporation they are its representatives in court. In the discharge of their duties they represent not only the stockholders,
but the bondholders and creditors, of the company. Their right,
while in the exercise of their legitimate functions, to manage
the affairs and suits of the company, ought not to be controlled
or interfered with by this court, by reason of any thing which
appears upon the pending motions. Upon their responsibility
as directors and trustees they insist that these causes shall proceed to final judgment, in accordance with the stipulation heretofore made by the parties to the appeals. If, in prosecuting
them to final judgment, they violate any trust committed to
their hands, or any agreement which is binding upon the corporation and the minority stockholders, remedy may be sought in
some court of original jurisdiction, into which, upon proper

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

pleadings, all persons interested may be summoned. No such
proceeding has been instituted, so far as we are informed, and
we do not feel at liberty, upon the suggestion of strangers to
the decrees appealed from, to go behind the official action of
the board of directors or trustees, and, in plain disregard of
their wishes, and their directions to counsel, dismiss the appeals,
and thereby refuse to consider questions regularly presented
for our determination.
The motions are, therefore, denied, and we proceed to an examination of the cases upon their merits, premising that our
present duty is limited to a determination of the rights of the
parties as they existed when the final decrees were rendered,
and as they are manifested in the records before us. If, since
these decrees were entered, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa
F6 Railroad Company, or the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley
Railroad Company, have, by valid contract, acquired a controlling interest in the property, rights, and affairs of the
Denver Company, that interest can be asserted by appropriate
proceedings, and will not be affected by any thing we may determine upon the issues presented by these appeals.
The several acts of Congress upon which the Denver Company and the Caron City Company rest their respective claims
to priority of right in the Big or Grand Caion are cited, and
the history of the organizatioA of both companies given in the
statement of the case. But there are other facts of an important character to which attention will be called in the course
of this opinion.
The first question, upon the merits, necessary to be considered is, as to the proper construction of the act of June 8,
1872. In its determination, however, we should not overlook
what had previously transpired in the history of the company
to which was granted, by that act, a right of way over the
public domain. In January and February, 1871, very shortly
after its articles of incorporation were filed in the proper office
of the Territory, the Denver Company caused a survey to be
made of the route through the Grand or Big Cafon of the
Arkansas, for the purpose, as declared by the engineer who
conducted it, of retaining control of the caion for that company. That survey, extending through the entire length of

R7AILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

[Sup. Ot.

the caion, is described by him as a "close preliminary ;" that
is, a line very near location, without an actual location of the
curves. But the location of the curves, he testifies, could have
been made in his office away from the canon. With that exception, he pronounces it to have been a complete survey. The
line thus surveyed was marked by stakes every hundred feet,
numbered consecutively, and at points where it seemed necessary, a plus or stake between the hundred feet was added. Of
the work then done, a map and profile were made and returned
to the chief engineer of the company, and estimates sent to its
general manager. Upon the occasion of that survey, or shortly
thereafter, employgs of the company, under the direction of
its engineer, removed several hundred yards of material, graded
several hundred feet at the upper outlet of the caion, and put
up a retaining wall ten to fifteen feet high, and about one hundred yards in length. In January, 1872, the survey was continued west of the cation for a distance of four or five miles.
While these surveys were being made, the company was employed in the construction of its road from Denver to Pueblo,
and completed it to the latter place, within a few days after,
or about the date of the passage of the act of June 8, 1872. It
may also be stated, in this connection, that it completed its
road from Pueblo to Labran, within eight miles of Canon City,
about the 1st of October, 1872, and to Caion City in July,
1875. All this was consistent with a purpose, upon the part
of the Denver Company, to avail itself ultimately, and within
the time prescribed by law, of the granted right of way through
the Grand Caion.
Of what the company had done, prior to the passage of the
act of 1872, towards effecting the objects of its incorporation,
Congress, it is fairly to be presumed, was not uninformed. It
-was aware, we must also presume, of the routes designated in
the charter of the company, for the main road and its several
branches, all so connected as to constitute, when completed, an
extended railway system for that entire region. That Congress
was so informed is quite clearly indicated by the terms employed in the act of 1872. That act must, therefore, receive
the same construction which would be adopted bad it contained
a full or detailed description of the routes of the main line and

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY Co. v. ALLING.

branches. In this view, and having due regard to all the circumstances and condition of the company, when the act was
passed, we do not doubt that the intention of Congress was
to grant to the company a present beneficial easement in the
particular way over which the designated routes lay, capable,
however, of enjoyment only when the way granted was actually
located, and, in good faith, appropriated for the purposes contemplated by the charter of the company, and the act of Congress. When such location and appropriation were made, the
title, which was previously imperfect, acquired precision, and
by relation took effect as of the date of the grant. The settled
doctrines of this court would seem to justify that conclusion.
Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95; Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 id. 44; Leavenworth, Lawrence, & Galveston Railroad
Co. v. -United States, 92 U. S. 733; Missouri, Kansas, &' Texas
Railway Co. v. Kansas Pacific Railway Co., 97 id. 491.
It is here suggested by counsel for the Denver Company that
the surveys made in the Grand Caion in 1871 and 1872 constituted, without further action on its part, a sufficient location
and appropriation of at least that part of the designated route.
To this proposition we cannot yield our assent. The right of
way through that pass was not, in itself, and separate from the
right of way along the whole route, of any special value, except the company surveyed its line and located its road east
and west of that defile. The grant was an entirety as to the
right of way over all the lands lying on the route designated in
the charter of the company, and it would be unreasonable to
say that, as to a particular part of that route, a mere preliminary survey was in itself equivalent to a fixed location of the
road and an appropriation of the way granted, while as to
another part of the general route a similar survey would not be
an appropriation of the way granted, unless followed by actual
occupation and use for railroad purposes. Any such construction of the statute must be held altogether inadmissible.
When was there, then, an appropriation by the Denver
Company of the Grand Caion within the principle we have
stated? In 1877 and 1878 it became evident that that pass
was of vital importance to any company desiring to reach
the trade and business of the country beyond it, whether to

RAILWAY

Co.

v. ALLING.

[SUP. Ct.

the west, northwest, or southwest. Discoveries then recently
made of mineral wealth in Western Colorado gave it immense
pecuniary value in railroad circles, since, as the evidence tends,
to establish the occupancy of the Royal Gorge of the Grand
Caion by one line of railroad would practically exclude all
competing companies from using it for like purposes, except
upon such terms as the first occupant might dictate. From the
date of the survey made in 1872, down to April 19, 1878, the
record furnishes no evidence that the Denver Company actually
occupied that defile for any purpose whatever. On that day,
however, Congress having extended the time to ten years from
the date of the original act within which to complete its road
as far south as Santa F6, that company did, by its agents, occupy the narrow portion of the cailon known as the Royal
Gorge, with the avowed intention of constructing its road upon
the line of the surveys made in 1871 and 1872. But during
the night of April 19, 1878, the board of directors of the Cation
City Company were convened, and Robinson and Strong, the
chief engineer and manager, respectively, of the Atchison,
Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company, were elected to the
same positions in the Caion City Company. They made preparations to take immediate possession of the caion in behalf of
the last-named company. Evidence of their diligence and activity in that direction is found in the fact that on the morning of
the 20th, as early as four o'clock, a small squad of their employ6s, nine or ten in number, under the charge of an assistant
engineer, swam the Arkansas River, and in the name of their
company took possession of the cailon. Under the circmnstances, it is not material that they failed to find a rival force
in the caion at such an unseasonable hour. That squad was
followed the same day by a large and overpowering force of
workmen under the control of Robinson. These movements
were succeeded by a suit instituted the same day, in the State
court, in the name of the Caion City Company against the
Denver Company, in which an injunction was obtained restraining the latter from occupying or attempting to occupy the cailon
for railroad purposes, or from interfering with the Cation City
Coipany in the construction of its own road therein.
The last-named company now insists that it has the prior

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

right to occupy and use the caion for its line of road. In support of this claim, it contends that the other company had lost
whatever rights it acquired in the canion through the imperfect
survey of 1871 and 1872, by its long inaction after the construction of the road to Caion City, and by its failure, within
a reasonable period, to follow up those surveys by actual location and occupancy for railroad purposes. The conduct of the
Denver Company, it is urged, evinced a settled purpose upon
its part to abandon its grant of a right of way through that
caion. The answer to all this seems very obvious.
The surveys of 1871 and 1872, although defective in some
particulars, and not equivalent to an actual location or appropriation of the way, were quite as complete and extended as
the survey which the Canion City Company caused to be made
in 1877. The evidence shows, beyond all question, that when
the latter survey was made there was seen in the caion all or
very many of the stakes which the engineer of the Denver
Company had put there in 1871 and 1872. Those who made
the survey in 1877 undoubtedly knew when, by whom, and for
what purpose those stakes had been there placed. Nor had
they sufficient reason to suppose that the Denver Company
had finally abandoned its purpose of constructing a road through
the canion. We have already referred to the completion of the
road from Denver to Pueblo, and from Pueblo to Cation City,
by July, 1875. In 1873, the Denver Company commenced the
construction of one of its branches, -the Denver and Southern
Railway. Commencing at Pueblo, it completed that road to
Cucharas, fifty miles from Pueblo, by February, 1876; to Garland, sixty miles from there, by August, 1877; and to the valley
of the Rio Grande, by July, 1878. After July, 1875, the company, it is true, suspended active work upon the line west of
Caion City. But the cause of such suspension, as its officers
testify, was the Widespread depression in business and financial
circles, and the belief, shared by all interested in the prosperity
of the company, that the extension of the line southward from
Pueblo gave promise of quicker returns and more immediate
results in every way. They state that it was the purpose of
the company to resume work upon its line through the canion
as soon as the necessary means therefor could be obtained, and

RAILWAY Co. v. ALLING.

[Sup. Ct.

that there was no intention at any time to abandon the route
west of Caion City. Their delay in the construction of the
road west of Caton City and through the Grand Caion seems to
have been in the interest of the stockholders they represented,
and not inconsistent with an honest purpose, within the period
fixed by law, to meet the objects for which Congress granted
to it the right of way. Its surveys of 1871-72, followed by an
occupancy of the caion on the 19th of April, 1878, in advance
of the Caion City Company, for the purpose of constructing
its road through that defile, was, in our judgment, a final appropriation of the way granted by Congress. The Denver
Company then, if not before, came into the enjoyment of the
present beneficial easement conferred by the act of June 8,
1872, and was entitled to have secured against all intruders
whatever privileges or advantages belonged to that position.
But the important question remains as to the effect of the
act of March 8, 1875, granting the right of way through the
public lands of the United States to any railroad company duly
organized under the laws of any State or Territory, except the
District of Columbia, or by the Congress of the United States.
The explicit language of that act leaves no doubt as to its
object. It declares "that any railroad company whose right
of way, or whose track or road-bed upon such right of way,
passes through any cation, pass, or defile, shall not prevent any
other railroad company from the use and occupancy of said
caton, pass, or defile, for the purposes of its road, in common
with the road first located, or the crossing of other railroads
at grade." At the date of that act the road of the Denver
Company, as we have seen, had not been located through the
Grand Catron of the Arkansas. But it had a subsisting grant
of a right of way through that defile. According, therefore,
to the act of March 3, 1875, the Caion City Company, if it
belonged to the class described in the first section of the act,
might, for the purposes of its road, occupy and use that caion
in common with the Denver Company.
Upon this branch of the case, the first contention of the
latter company is that the Caton City Company was not
"duly organized" under the laws of Colorado, and, therefore,
by the terms of the act of March 3, 1875, was not entitled to

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

Co. v.

ALLING.

its benefits. But this objection is not well taken. The articles
of incorporation filed by that company seem to be in substantial
compliance with the statutes of Colorado. This objection need
not be further considered.
But its right to claim the benefit of the act of March 3,
1877, is impeached upon the further ground that it was not
organized in good faith, for the purpose of constructing a road
for itself, but was the mere instrument of the Atchison, Topeka,
and Santa F6 Company, by whom the real work of construction
through the cation was carried on. It is not to be doubted,
under the evidence, that the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railroad Company is the active power behind all the movements made in the name of the Caion City Company for the
occupation of the caion, and that the former company, or some
of its stockholders, were deeply interested in the success of
the movement to drive the Denver Company from the Grand
Caion. But the Caion City Company is none the less a railroad company, duly organized under the laws of Colorado. It
is, therefore, embraced by the very letter of the act of March 3,
1875. We are unable to perceive upon what sound principle
the courts can go behind its regular and lawful organization,
and exclude it from the rights granted by that act, because in
the prosecution of its work it derives assistance or accepts aid
from another corporation, with which it may choose to share
the benefits secured under the act of Congress.
Our next inquiry is as to the extent to which the rights of
the Denver Company were affected or modified by the act
of March 3, 1875. When that act was passed, its grant of the
right of way by the act of June 8, 1872, had not been acted
upon as to the Grand Caion of the Arkansas. There had not
been, on March 3, 1875, an actual location of its line through
that defile, nor any occupancy thereof, in good faith, for the
purpose of constructing its road. The five years originally
given to that company, within which to complete its railway
to a point on the Rio Grande as far south as Santa F6, expired
on the 8th of June, 1877. Before, however, the expiration of
that period, the time was extended to ten years from the passage of the original act. Now, it is solely by reason of such
extension that the Denver Company had the right, on the

RAILWAY CO. V. ALLING.

[SUP. Ct.

19th of April, 1878, to take possession of the Grand Caflon,
and prepare for the final location and construction of its road
through that pass. When, therefore, it accepted the benefits
of the act of March 3, 1877, it must be held to have assented
to the provisions of the act of March 3, 1875, whereby it was
declared, in the interest of the public, that any other railroad
company duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory
might use and occupy the caion, for the purpose of its road,
in common with the road first located. At the time of the
passage of the act of March 3, 1875, Congress had become
convinced of the importance to the country, and particularly
to the Western States, of preserving caions, passes, and defiles
in the public domain for the equal and common use of all railroad companies organized under competent State or territorial
authority, and to which might be granted by national authority
the right of way. We may well presume that the extension
of time accorded to the Denver Company by the act of March
8, 1877, would not have been given except subject to the conditions contained in the act of March 3, 1875. This conclusion
renders it unnecessary that we should, in this case, consider
whether Congress might legally have subjected the Denver
Company, without its consent, to the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1877, had that company actually located and constructed its road in or through the Grand Caion within five
years after the passage of the act of June 8, 1872.
It results from what we have said, that the court below
erred in enjoining the Denver Company from proceeding with
the construction of its road in the Grand Carion. The decree,
as entered, can only be sustained upon the assumption that the
Caion City Company had by prior occupancy acquired a right
superior to any which the Denver and Rio Grande Railway
Company had to use the cation for the purpose of constructing
its road. But that assumption, we have seen, is not sustained
by the evidence, and is inconsistent with the rights given by
the acts of Congress to the Denver Company. The Denver
Company should have been allowed to proceed with the construction of its road unobstructed by the other company.
Where the Grand Caion is broad enough to enable both
companies to proceed without interference with each other in

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY Co. v. ALLING.

the construction of their respective roads, they should be
allowed to do so. But in the narrow portions of the defile,
where this course is impracticable, the court, by proper orders,
should recognize the prior right of the Denver and Rio Grande
Railway Company to construct its road. Further, if in any
portion of the Grand Caton it is impracticable or impossible
to lay down more than one road-bed and track, the court,
while recognizing the prior right of the Denver Company to
construct and operate that track for its own business, should,
by proper orders, and upon such terms as may be just and
equitable, establish and secure the right of the Catlon City
Company, conferred by the act of March 8, 1875, to use the
same road-bed and track, after completion, in common with
the Denver Company.
The decrees in these causes are, therefore, reversed, with
directions to set aside the order granting an injunction against
the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company, and also the
order dissolving the injunction granted in its favor, and dismissing its bill. By proper orders, entered in each suit, the
court below will recognize the prior right of that company to
occupy and use the Grand Caion for the purpose of constructing its road therein, and will enjoin the Cation City and San
Juan Railway Company, its officers, agents, servants, and employ~s, from interfering with or obstructing that company in
such occupancy, use, and construction. It may be that, during
the pendency of these causes in the court below, or since the
rendition of the decrees appealed from, the Caton City and
San Juan Railway Company has, under the authority of the
Circuit Court, constructed its road-bed and track in the Grand
Caion, or in some portion thereof. In that event, the cost
thus incurred in those portions of the caion which admit of
only one road-bed and track for railroad purposes may be
ascertained and provided for in such manner and upon such
terms and conditions as the equities of the parties may require.
The court will make such further orders as may be necessary to give effect to this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment in this case.
VOL. XX.

31

In my opinion

MONTGOMERY V. SAMORY.

[Sup. Ct.

the grant of the right of way to the Denver and Rio Grande
Company, contained in the act of June 8, 1872, is no more
than a license to enter upon and use such of the public lands
of the United States as should be unoccupied and not appropriated to other purposes when the permanent location of its
road with a view to actual construction should be made.
Words which, in a grant of land to aid in building a raih'oad,
imply a present grant need not necessarily have that effect
in a grant of right of way only.
I think, also, the Caion City and San Juan Company made
the first permanent location with a view to actual construction
through the pass in controversy. Consequently it secured the
preference of routes, subject to a reasonable use of the route
it occupied, if necessary, by the Denver Company in common
with itself.

MONTGOIMERY V. SAIAORY.
A court in Louisiana, having jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter
of the suit, rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiff for a debt, with
lien and privilege on the lands described in the mortgage given by the defendant to secure it. The judgment, on a devolutive appeal by the defendant, was in all things affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Pending
the appeal, the lands were sold by the sheriff under the judgment, and purchased by the plaintiff, who obtained a monition under the act for the further assurance of titles to purchasers at judicial sales. Due publication
of said monition having been made, and there being no opposition to said
sale, the proper court ordered that the same "be confirmed and homologated
according to law." A suit was subsequently brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States by the heir-at-law of the mortgagor, praying that the
title of the purchaser at said sale be decreed to be null and void, and that
the complainant be adjudged to be the true and lawful owner of the lands.
Held, that the judgment in the proceedings on the monition is conclusive
proof of the validity of the sale, and, as res adjudicata,is a complete bar to
the suit.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Thomas ifunton for the appellant.
M1r. Philip Phidlips and Mri. Hfenry C. Miller, contra.

