TICE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

TImB v. UNITED STATES.
The Secretary of the Treasury having been authorized by sect. 15 of the act of
March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 481), to "adopt, procure, and prescribe" meters to
be used by distillers, adopted the meter of A., April 18, 1867. If the Secretary revoked his order, it was agreed that A. should be paid for all the
instruments he might then have completed or have in process of completion, provided the number of sets in process of manufacture at any one time
should not exceed twenty. A joint resolution, passed Feb. 3, 1868 (15 id. 246),
declared that, pending an examination thereby directed, all work on the construction of meters under the direction of the Treasury Department should
be suspended, and that in the mean time no further contract should be made
under the act of March 2, 1867. Power to adopt and prescribe meters was,
by the act of July 20, 1868 (id. 125), conferred upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who, Sept. 16, 1868, adopted A.'s meter, reserving the right
to entirely revoke his order adopting it, and, on the part of the govefiment,
direct the discontinuance of its manufacture. June 8, 1870, the commissioner
revoked his previous order, except as to meters then on hand or in process
of construction not exceeding twenty sets; and A. was informed that neither
the government nor any department or officer thereof was or would be responsible for or on account of any meters. The use of A.'s meter was entirely
discontinued June 8, 1871. He then had fourteen and a half sets on hand, for
the value of which lie brought this suit, contending that the contract made
by the Secretary in 1867, to pay for the instruments on hand at the time of
the discontinuance to the extent of twenty sets, was adopted by the commissioner in 1868, and was made part of all the subsequent proceedings. It
does not appear that any of the fourteen and a half sets on hand June 8,
1871, wire on hand or in process of manufacture June 8, 1870. Held, that A.
was not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

2ffr. J. I. Douglass for the appellants.
Tke Solicitor-General, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
By sect. 15 of an act approved March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 481),
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to "adopt, procure, and prescribe" for use hydrometers, weighing and gauging instruments, meters, or other means for ascertaining the
strength and quality of spirits subject to tax, or for preventing
or detecting frauds by distillers of spirits.
On the 18th of April, 1867, the Secretary adopted the Tice
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

Oct. 1878.]

TICE

V. UNITED STATES.

meter, and prescribed its use in distilleries, upon certain agreed
conditions fully set forth in a letter to the inventor. Among
those conditions were these :" The Secretary of the Treasury holds himself at liberty at any
time to adopt any improvement or modification of the meter or system, or at any time to revoke the order adopting the meter, and to
discontinue their manuficture on behalf of the government. If the
first meter shall prove successful when subjected to the test above
set forth, and the government shall subsequently revoke the adoption of the meter and order a discontinuance of proceedings, you
will be paid such sum as may be determined upon in the manner
hereinafter stated for all instruments which you may have completed or have in process of completion at the time of such revocation: Provided,that at no time shall you have more than twenty
sets in process of manufacture at any one time, unless directions
shall be given hereafter for the manufacture of a larger number."
By joint resolution passed Feb. 8, 1868 (15 id. 246), Congress
directed the appointment, by the Secretary of the Treasury, of
a commission which, in connection with the then-existing commission of the Academy of Science, should examine all meters
and mechanical contrivances or inventions presented to them
which were intended to measure, test, and ascertain the productiveness of grain or other articles prepared for distillation, or the
actual quantity and strength of distilled spirits subject to tax,
produced therefrom, the result of such examination to be communicated to Congress. The act declared "that pending the
action of said commission, and until their report be made, and
a meter shall be by law adopted, all work on the construction
of meters, under the direction of the Treasury Department, be
and is hereby suspended." "And in the mean time no further
contract shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury" under
the act of March 2, 1867.
By an act approved July'20, 1868 (id. 125), power to " adopt
and prescribe" meters was conferred upon the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue. That officer, Sept. 16, 1868, decided to adopt
and prescribe the Tice meter, and upon certain conditions, to
which the inventor assented, he directed the latter "to proceed with their construction." Among the conditions were
these: -

TIcE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

" Third, The one hundred and seventeen meters now finished
will be immediately made ready for delivery, and thirty-six now in
process of manufacture will be completed as soon as possible. The
manufacture of others, to the number of five hundred in all, is to be
proceeded with as rapidly as possible, and thereafter not more than
twenty sets are to be in process of construction at one time, unless a greater number is directed by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.
"1Fourth,The commissioner reserves to bimself, or his successor
in office, the right at any time to adopt any improvement of the
meter or system, or to revoke the order adopting the meter, and
to direct on the part of the government a discontinuance of its
manufacture.'
On the 7th of June, 1870, the commissioner ordered the discontinuance of that kind of Tice meter known as the second or
" credit" meter, and required distilleries to use thereafter the
Tice sample meter, and the Tice automatic meters adapted for
use as sample meters.
On the succeeding day, June 8, 1870, the commissioner addressed to Tice a letter, in which, among other things, he gave
notice that instructions and regulations in force prior to Oct.
8, 1869, "relating to the ordering and shipment and payment
for the meters invented by you and prescribed for use in distilleries, remain in force only in respect to meters heretofore
delivered, and also those you may now have on band or in
process of construction, not exceeding twenty sets." In that
letter the commissioner further says: " Any regulations heretofore prescribed, addressed to you by or from this office, directing
or authorizing you to construct, or proceed with the construction of, or to furnish, meters, especially those of Sept. 16, 1868,
are revoked, except as aforesaid. New rules, regulations, and
orders have been prescribed, a copy of which is herewith enclosed, it being distinctly understood that neither thd government of the United States, nor any department or officer
thereof, is or will be responsible for or on account of any spirit
meters, or the attachment or adjustment thereof."
By a formal order made on June 8, 1871, the further use of
Tice's spirit meters was finally discontinued, and all existing
orders prescribing the same were revoked. At the date of

Oct. 1878.]

TIcE V. UNITED STATES.

that order Tice had on hand fourteen and one half sets of
meters, worth $25,000, for which sum, and for storage up to
April 8, 1873, the estate of Tice rendered an account against
the government on the 12th of April, 1873. The amount was
approved by the then commissioner; but payment being refused,
this action was brought against the government for the recovery
of the sum claimed.
From the judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of the
government this appeal is prosecuted.
We concur with the learned counsel for appellants in the
proposition that the contract made April 18, 1867, by the
Secretary of the Treasury with Tice was not abrogated by
the joint resolution of Feb. 3, 1868. By the terms of the
resolution it was only suspended until final action by the commission, whose report was designed as the foundation of a
statute which would designate the kind of meters which should
be adopted. But express authority to make a new contract
was conferred by the act of July 20, 1868, upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. That officer was empo'wered to
adopt and prescribe for use such hydrometers, saccharometers,
weighing and gauging instruments or meters, as he might
deem necessary. The extent of the authority intended to be
conferred upon him is manifested by the third section of the
act of July 20, 1868, which required every owner, agent, or
superintendent of a distillery to furnish and attach, at his own
expense, such meter as the commissioner might adopt and
prescribe for use. It was by virtue of its provisions that the
agreement of Sept. 16, 1868, was made. According to any
fair construction of its terms, in the light of attendant circumstances, the government was bound, as under the agreement of April 18, 1867, to pay for such sets, not exceeding
twenty, as Tice might have on hand at the time their use
should be discontinued. The provision to that effect in the
contract of April 18, 1867, is so reasonable and just, that we
shall not presume that the contract of Sept. 16, 1868, was
intended to establish a different rule of compensation to the
inventor. But we do not perceive, however, that all this
justifies the conclusion that the government was under any
legal obligation to pay for the meters which Tice had on hand
VOL. Ix.

19

TICE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

on June 8, 1871, and for the value of which the account in
question was presented. By the express words of the agreement of Sept. 16, 1868, the commissioner had the right at any
time to revoke the order adopting the meter, and to direct the
discontinuance of its manufacture on behalf of the government.
That power was partially exerted by the order of June 7, 1870,
which dispensed with the further use of all Tice meters except
the sample meters, or the automatic meters adopted for use as
sample meters. But the power of revocation and discontinuance was fully exerted by the sweeping order of June 8, 1870,
which, reserving the rights of Tice as to all meters theretofore
delivered, and as to such as were then on hand or in process of
construction, not exceeding twenty sets, revoked all previous
regulations which directed or authorized the inventor to construct, or proceed with the construction of, ox to furnish,
meters, and especially the regulation of Sept. 16, 1868. By that
order distinct notice was given to the patentee that neither the
government of the United States nor any department or officer
thereof was or would be responsible for or on account of any
spirit meters, or the attachment or adjustment thereof. The
order of June 8, 1870, did not, perhaps, discontinue the use of
meters altogether, but it clearly furnished notice that the
patentee could not look to the government for protection or
reimbursement as to any meters thereafter constructed by him
and used by distilleries. The meters for which the account
was rendered were on hand on June 8, 1871, when all existing
orders prescribing the same for use were absolutely revoked
and the further use of Tice meters discontinued. Had they
been on hand and in the process of construction at the date of
the order of June 8, 1870, we would not doubt the liability of
the government for their value. But no such fact is found,
and we suppose no such fact could have been established.
While we do not agree with the court below in all the
reasons assigned in support of the conclusion reached, we think
its judgment is in accordance with the law.
fudgment affrmed.

