OcGt. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. SIOUX CITY, ETC.

491

R.R. Co.

Concede that, and still the concession will not change the
conclusion in this case, as the jurisdiction of the court in the
foreclosure proceeding is beyond question, and the decisions of
the State court prove incontestably that the notice to the curator ad hoc was sufficient to support the judgment or decree
against the defendant as an absentee from the State.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the judgment in the monition proceeding affords conclusive
proof that the judicial conveyance of the property vested a complete title in the purchaser at the sheriff's sale. Should it be
suggested that the judgment rendered in the monition proceeding was subsequent to the appeal from the Third District Court,
the conclusive answer to the objection is that the devolutive
appeal never operates as a supersedeas. Arrowsmith v. Durell,
21 Law Ann. 295; Walker v. Jfays, 23 id. 176; Samory v.
Montgomery, 27 id. 50; Code of Prac., arts. 578, 595; Rev.
Stat. La., art. 3392.
Tested by these authorities, it is clear that the appeal constituted.no legal obstacle to the subsequent jurisdiction of the
subordinate court in rendering the judgment in the monition
proceeding, from which it follows that there is no error in the
record brought here by the present writ of error.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FimLD and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

did not sit

inthis case, nor take any part in deciding it.

UNITED STATES V. SIOUX CITY AND PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
2

The ruling in Union Pacific Railroad Comapany v. United States (supra, p. 40 ), that

the United States is not entitled to recover if, during the period for which it
claims the five per cent of the net earnings of any road, to aid in the construction of which the bonds of the United States were granted under the Pacific
Railroad acts, such earnings were absorbed by the interest accruing on the
first-mortgage bonds of the company, reaffirmed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.

492

UNITED STATES V. SIOUx CITY, ETC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Attorney-aeneral and Mr. Joseph K MeCammon for the
plaintiff in error.
MIr. S. Bartlett and Mr. TV I. Hayes, contra.
JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought by the United States against the
defendant in the court below to recover five per cent of its net
earnings.
The facts of the case were admitted by the parties, and,
amongst others, the following: "5. That if the amount paid by the company as hereinbefore
stated for interest on its first-mortgage bonds during said time
should, under the law, be deducted from the receipts of the
company in order to ascertain the net earnings thereof, then
there were no net earnings during said time; but if, on the
other hand, the said payments of interest should not be deducted from the earnings of the road to ascertain the net earnings, then the net earnings of the road during said period
amounted to the sum of four hundred and seven thousand
seven hundred and ninety-nine 0e dollars ($407,799.50)."
It thus appears that, although the company made net earnings to the amount of $407,799.50, during the period covered
by the time in respect of which the suit was brought, yet that
they were all absorbed by the interest accruing on the firstmortgage bonds. According to the principles laid down in our
decision, Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. United States (supra,
p. 402), the government cannot claim the five per cent which
would otherwise be applicable to its subsidy.
Judgment affirmed.

MRi.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

