JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

41

The United States v. Staats.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS,

v.

THoIIAS

STAATS, JuxioR.

Where an act of Congress declaredthat, if any person "shall transmit to, or present
at or cause or procure to be transmitted to, or presented at, any office or officer
of the government of the United States, any deed. power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, in support of, or in relation to, any account or
claim, with intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same to be false, altered, forged, or counterfeited; every such person shall be deemed and adjudged
guilty of felony," &c.,- it was sufficient that the indictment charged the act to have
been done "with intent to defraud the United States," without also charging that
it was done feloniously, or with a "felonious intent."
Where the act done was the transmission to the Commissioner of Pensions of an
affidavit which was false in the facts which it professed to narrate, although sworn
to by a person who really existed, and the person who transmitted it knew that it
was false, it was an offence within the meaning of the act of Congress.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of New York, on a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It wyas an indictment under the act of March 3d, 1323, entitled "An act for the punishment of frauds committed on the
government of the United States." (3 Stat. at Large, 771, 772.)
By the first section it is enacted, -" That if any person or
persons shall falsely make, alter, forge, or counterfeit; or cause
or procure to be falsely made, altered, forged, or counterfeited;
or willingly aid or assist in the false making, altering, forging,
or counterfeiting, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate,
receipt, or other writing, for the purpose of obtaining or receiving, or of enabling any other person or persons, either directly
or indirectly, to obtain or receive, from the United States, or
any of their officers or agents, any sum or sums of money.; or
shall utter or publish as true, or cause to be uttered or published
as true, any such false, forged, altered, or counterfeited deed,
power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt, or other writing
as aforesaid, with intent to defiaud the United States, knowing
the same to be false, altered, forged, or counterfeited; or shall
transmit to, or present at, or cause or procure to be transmitted
to, or presented at, any office or officer of the government of
the United States, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, in support of, or in relation to,
any account or claim, with intent to defraud the United States,
knowing the same to be false, altered forged, or counterfeited;
every sach persou shall be deemed and adjudged guilty of felony, and being thereof duly convicted, shall be sentenced to be
imprismed and kept at hard labor for a period not less than one
year, nor more tian ten years; or sball be imprisoned not exceeding five years, and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars."

42

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Staats.

The first count of the indictment charged that one David
Goodhard was a claimant for a revolutionary pension, and did
claim and receive the same; and that "Thomas Staats, Jr.,"
contriving and intending to injure and defraud the said United
States of America, and to cause .and induce the 'said United
States of America to pay unto the said David-Goodhard divers
large sums of money, did cause and procure to be transmitted
to the Commissioner of Pensions of the said United States of
America, and to be presented at the office of the said Commissioner, a certain writing, purporting to be made, subscribed,
and sworn to by one Benjamin Chadsey. After setting forth
the contents of the paper, it proceeded, that the said Staats,
"knowing the said affidavit to be false and untrue," and that
Benjamin Chadsey did not know what had 'been stated in the
paper, "did transmit, and did cause and procure to be transmitted, to the said Commissioner of Pensions of the said United
States of America, the said false writing and affidavit, as a tilie
writing in support of the aforesaid claim of the said David
Goodhard, with intent to defraud the United States of
America."
The second count charged, that David Goodhard was a
claimant for divers sums of money as a pensioner, and that in
support of the said claim one Wiliiam Bowsman did subscribe
and make oath unto a certain affidavit therein mentioned;
whereas, in truth, Bowsman did not know what was so set
forth. "And the said Thomas Staats, Jr., well knowing the,
premises, and well knowing that the said affidavit or writing
.did
cause and procure to be
was false and untrue, .....
transmitted and presented to the Commissioner of Pensions of
the said United States of America, the said false and untrue
affidavit or writing as a true writing, in support of the claim of
the said David Goodhard, with intent to defraud the said United States of America."
The accused was found guilty. A motion was afterwards
made to arrest the judgment upon the verdict, when the judges
were opposed in opinion on the following questions:1. Whether the said indictment is fatally defective, for the
reason that the acts charged to have been committed by the
said defendant are not in said indictment charged to have been
committed feloniously or with a felonious intent ?
2. Whether the acts charged in the said indictment to have"
been committed by the defendant do constitute an offence
within the provisions of the first section of the act of Congress,
approved March 3d, 1823, entitled "An act for the punishment
of frauds committed on the government of the United States"?

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

43

The United States v. Staats.

Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), on the part. of the United
States, contended,1. That, in an indictment for such an offence as is stated in
the indictment in this case, it is not necessary to charge that
the acts were done feloniously. United States v Elliott, 3 Mason, 156; United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460; United
States v. Lancaster, 2 McLean, 431.
, 2. That the acts charged are an offence within the first section of the act.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The prisoner was indicted under the third section of the act
of Congress, passed 3d March, 1823, entitled "An act for the
punishment of frauds committed on ,the government of the
United States."
The section provides, that if any person shall falsely make,
alter, forge, or counterfeit, &c., any deed, power of attorney,
order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, for the purpose of
obtaining or receiving, or of enabling any other person or persons, either directly or indirectly, to obtain or receive from the
United States, or any of their officers or agents, any sum or
sums of money; or shall utter or publish as true, or cause to
be uttered or published as true, any false, forged, altered or
counterfeit deed, &c., with intent to defraud the United States,
knowing the same to be false, forged, or counterfeit; or shall
transmit to, or present at, or cause or procure to be transmitted
to or presented at, any office or officer of the government of
the United States, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, in support of, or in relation to,
any account or claim, with intent to defraud the United States,
knowing the same to be false, altered, forged, or counterfeited;
every such person shall be deemed and adjudged guilty of felony, &c.
The indictment contains two counts. The firsf charges, that
one David Goodhard was an applicant for a pension under the
act of Congress entitled, "A n act supplementary to the act for
the relief of certain officers and soldiers of the Revolution,"
passed 7th June, 1832; and that Thomas Staats, Jr., the prisoner, contriving and intending to defraud the United States,
and to cause and induce the same to pay to the said David
divers large sums of money, did cause and procure to be transmitted to the Commissioner of Pensions, and to be presented at
the office of the said Commissioner, a certaiti writing purport"ing to be made, subscribed, and sworn to, by one Benjamin
Chadsey, &c., in which said writing, it was alleged and de-

44

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Staats.

clared, (setting out the contents of the affidavit,) the said
Thomas Staats, Jr., knowing the said affidavit to be false and
untrue, &c., and did cause and procure to be transmitted to
the said Commissioner of Pensions the said false writing and
affidavit, as a true writing, in support of the aforesaid application of the said David, with intent to defraud the United States.
The second count is substantially like the first, except that
it avers the false affidavit to have'been made by one William
Bowsman.
The prisoner, on being arraigned, pleaded not guilty; and,
on the trial of the issue, was convicted; whereupon his counsel moved in arrest of judgment; upon whose motion the following questions arose, upon which the opinions of the judges
were opposed, and the questions certified to this court 1. Whether the said indictment is defective, for the reason,
that the acts charged to have been committed by the defendant are not charged to have been committed feloniously, or
with a felonious intent; and,
2. Whether the acts charged in the said indictment to have
been committed by the defendant do constitute an offence
within the provisions of the first section of the act of Congress above recite d.
1. In respect to the first question certified. The general rule
is, that the charge must be laid in the indictment so as to bring
the case within the description of the offence as given in the
statute, alleging distinctly all the essential requisites that constitute it. Nothing is to be left to implication or intendment.
Generally speaking, it is sufficient to pursue the words of the
act; but if, in'pursuing them, there should be any ambiguity
or uncertainty in, charging the offence, the pleader should regard the substance and legal effect of the enactment. And
-when words or terms of art are used in the description, that
have a technical meaning at common law, these should be
followed, being the only terms to express in apt and legal
language the nature and character of the crime.
In all cases of felonies at common law, and some, also, by
statute, the felonious intent is deemed an essential ingredient
in constituting the offence;. and hence the indictment will be
defective, even after verdict, unless the intent is averred.
The rule has been adhered to with great strictness; and properly so, where this intent is a material element of the crime.
Sir William Blackstone observes, that the term felony originally denoted the penal consequences of the crime, namely,
the forfeiture of the lands and goods; but that, by long use, it
came, at last, to signify the actual crime committed.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

45

The United States v. Staats.

He further remarks, that the idea of felony is so generally
connected with that of capital punishment, that it is difficult to
separate them, and that the interpretation of the law conforms
to that usage; and therefore, if a statute makes any new
offence felony, the lawv implies that it shall'be punished with
death, that is, by hanging as well as by forfeiture, unless the
offender prays the benefit of clergy. (4 Bl. Com. 97, Wend. ed.)
This view accounts for the necessity of the averment of a
felonious intent in all indictments for felony at common law;
and, also, in many cases when made so by statute; because,
if it is used, in the sense of the law, to denote the actual
crime itself, the felonious intent becomes an essential ingredient to constitute it. The term signifying the crime committed, and not the degree of punishment, the felonious intent
is of the essence of the offence; as much so as the intent
to maim, or disfigure, in the case of mayhem, or to defraud,
in the case of forgery, are essential ingredients in constituting
these several offences.
But, in cases where this felonious intent constitutes no part
of the crime, that being complete, under the statute, without
it, and depending upon another and different criminal intent,
the rule can have no application in reason, however it may
be upon authority.
The statute upon which the indictijient in question is founded describes the several acts which make up the offence; and
then declares the person to be guilty of felony, punishable by
fine and imprisonment. The transmission or presentation of
any deed, or other writing, to any office or officer of the government, in support of, or in relation to, any account or claim,
with the intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same
to be false, are the only essential ingredients. The felonious
intent is no part of the description; as the offence is complete
without it. Felony is the conclusion of law from the acts
done with the intent described; and makes pait of the punishment; as, in the eye of the common law, the prisoner thereby becomes infamous, and disfranchised. These consequences
may not follow, legally speaking, in a government where the
common law does not prevail; but the moral degradation attaches to the punishment actually inflicted.
This questionarose in a case before Park, J., on the Norther Circuit, in 1831, on the trial of an indictmeht for burning
stacks of grain,' which is made felony by the 22 & 23 Car.
II. The second count charges the prisoner with aiding and
abetting; and an objection was taken, that the -indictment
should have averred that he was feloniously present aiding

46

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Staats.

and abetting. Park, J., was inclined to think the objection
fatal ; but allowed the trial to proceed, and the prisoner was
acquitted on the facts. Canon and another's Case, 1 Lewin's
Northern Circuit, 227.
It again arose before Lord Lyndhurst, C. B., at the Durham Assizes, in 1834, on an indictment under the statute of
mayhem, 9 Geo. IV., ch. 31, ยง 2. An objection was taken
after conviction, that the indictment did not allege that the
prisoner upon the prosecution feloniously'did make an assault,
&c.; but it was held that, as the indictment described the
offence in the words or terms of the statute, it was sufficient.
(Deacon on Cr. Law, Suppt. 1652, 1681, Rex v. Thomas
Liddle.)
This statute, after describing the acts constituting the offence, concludes, like the one before us, that every such person
shall be guilty of felony, and, on conviction, shall suffer death.
The decision, therefore, bears directly upon the question in
hand; and, as the principle seems to have been given up in
the country from whence it was derived, and, at best, is here
but the merest technicality, it is difficult to'perceive any ground
for still giving effect to it. It would be otherwise, if the felonious, intent was descriptive of the offence, and not simply
of the punishment.
We shall, therefore, direct that it be certified to the court
below, that the indictment is not fatally defective, for the reason the acts charged to have been committed by the defendant are not charged to have been committed feloniously, or
with a felonious intent.
2. With respect to the second question certified.
The court are of opinion that the offence charged in the
indictment comes within the statute.
The only doubt that can be raised is, whether the writing
transmitted or presented to the commissioner in support of
the claim for a pension should not, within the meaning of the
statute, be an instrument forged, or counterfeited, in the technical sense of the term; and not one genuine as to the execution, but false as'it respects the facts embodied in it.
The instruments referred to in the first part of the section,
the false making or forging of which, with the intent stated,
is made an offence, probably are forged instruments in a
strict technical sense; and there is force, therefore, in the argument, that the subsequent clause, making the transmission
or presentation of deeds or other writings to an officer of the
government a similar offence, had reference to the same description of instruments.

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

47,

The United States v. Staats.

But this is by no means a necessary conclusion upon the
words of the statute. Indeed, upon this construction, it is not
easy to see the materiality of the clause; because the uttering
"and publishing of the forged instruments mentioned in the
first clause, as true, is made an offence, the same as the forging; and it is quite clear, that the acts provided against in the
subsequent clause amount to an uttering and publishing. If
restrained, therefore, to forged instruments, the clause would
seem to be unnecessary.
The deeds and other writings mentioned are not connected
with those in the preceding paragraph, as would have been
natural, and almost of course, if intended to describe similar
instruments. The language is " any deed, power of attorney,"
&c.; not, the aforesaid deed, which words must be in effect
interpolated, upon the construction contended for.
The clause, therefore, may well be'regarded as providing
for a distinct and independent offence, - one essential to the
protection of the government against fraudulent claims; and
which consists in the transmission or presentation of false or
counterfeit papers to any officers of the government in support
of an account or claim, with intent to defraud.
The case is within the mischief intended to be guarded
against; and, also, within the words; and we think the considerations urged, founded upon the form and structure of the
general provision, though plausible, and calculated to excite
doubts, not sufficient to take it out of them.
A genuine instrument containing a false statement of facts,
used in support of a claim, the party knowing it to be false,
and using it with the intent to defraud, presents a case not
distinguishable in principle, or in turpitude, or in its mischievous effects, from one in which every part of the instrument
is fabricated; and when the one is as fully within the words
of the statute as the other, we may well suppose that it was
intended to embrace it.
We shall direct, therefore, that it be certified to the court
below, that the acts charged in the said indictment to have
been committed by the defendant do constitute an offence
within the provisions of the act above referred to.
Order..
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit CQurt of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and on the points and questions on which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed ii opinion, and which were certified to this court for its

48

SUPREME

COURT.

Surgett v. Lapice et aL

opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made
and provided, and was argued by'counsel. On consideration

whereof, it is the opinion of this court,1st. That the indictment is not fatally defective for the
reason the acts charged to have been 'ommitted by the defendant are not charged to have been committed feloniously,
or with a felonious intent; and,
2d. That the acts charged in the said indictment to have
been committed by the defendant do constitute an offence
within the provisions of the first section of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1823, entitled "An act for the
punishment of frauds committed on the government of the
United States." Whereupon it is now here ordered and

adjudged by, this court, that it be so certified to the said
Circuit Court.

FRANcIs SURGETT, APPELLANT, V. PETER
WHITTLESEY.

M.

LAPICE AN

EDWARD

Where an "action of jactitation" or "slander of title" was brought in a State court
of Louisiana and removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by the defendant, who was a citizen of Mississippi (the persons who brought the action being
in Possession of the land under a legal title), and the defendant pleaded in reconvention, setting up an equitable title, and the court below decreed against the defendant, it was proper for him to bring the case to this court by appeal, and not
by writ of error.
This case distinguished from that of the United States v. King, 3d and 7th Howard,
773 and 844.
Before the transfer of Louisiana to the United States, the Spanish government was
accustomed to grant lands fronting on the Mississippi River, and reserve the lands
behind those thus granted for the use of the front proprietors, who had always a
right of pre(emption to them.
After the transfer, Congress recognized this right of preemption by several laws.
In 1832, Congress passed an act (4 Star. atLarge, 534) giving to the proprietors of any
tracts bordering on a river, creek, bayou, or water-course, the right of preference
in the purchase of any vacant tract of land adjacent to and back of his own tract,
provided that the right of preemption should not extend so far in depth as to include lands fit for cultivation bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or watercourse, and provided that all notices of claims shall be entered, and the money
.paid thereon, at least three weeks before such period as may be designated by the
President of the United States for the public sale of the lands in the township.
This lastproviso cannot be construcd to apply to a township where the lands had
already been exposed to sale by order of the President'in 1829. The act having
been passed in 1832, a compliance with it was impossible, and it must, therefore,
be construed as applying prospectively to those lands which had not been exposed
to public sale.
The first proviso related only to a river, creek, bayou, or water-course which was a
navigable stream. The bayou in question was not so, as is shown by the evidence
in the case, and also by the fact that the sections of land, as laid out by the public
surveyor, cross it. When the surveyor comes to navigable streams, he bounds
tnnon the shore, and makes fractional sections.

