366

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

In the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, this court held, that
"a location under the law of the United States" must be "in
conformity with it." But this, it is insisted, is not the true
construction of the proviso. That "under the law" does not
mean, "in pursuance of it," or "in conformity with it," but an
act assumed to be done under it.
The word under has a great variety of meanings. But the
sense in-which it-was used in the proviso is, "subject to the
law." We are under the laws of the United States, that is,
we are subject to those laws. We live under a certain jurisdiction, that is, we are subject to it. The proviso declares,
that the act shall not confer a title, "in opposition to the rights
acquired under the laws of the United States." This would
seem to be conclusive, as no right can be acquired under a law
which is not in pursuance of it. If the New'Madrid location
was made in violation of the law, it is n6t perceived how any
right could be acquired under it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

ED,IuxD B. CALDWELL, SURVIVING PARTNER OF JADIEs LYND, JR. AND
COIMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

In this case, the court below instructed the jury, that, if the goods were fraudulently
entered, it was no matter in whose possession they were when seized, or whether
the United States had made an election between the penalties, and that the forfeiture took place when the fraud, if any, was committed, and' the seller of the
goods could convey no title to the purchaser.
.
This instruction was right in respect to the sixty-eighth section of the act of 1799
(1 Stat. at Large, 677), as the penalty is the forfeiture of the goods without an alternative of their value, but wrong as the instruction applies to the sixty-sixth section
of the same act, - as the forfeiture under it is either the goods or their value.
Under the sixty-eighth section, the forfeiture is the statutory transfer of right to the
goods at the time the offence is committed. The title of the United States to the
goods forfeited is not consummated until after judicial condemnation, but the
rigid to them relates backwards to the time the offence was committed, so as to
avoid all intermediate sales of them between the commission of the offence and
condemnation.
But under the sixty-sixth section of the act, in which the forfeiture is the goods or,
their value, the United Stat;s have no title in the goods, until an election has been

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

367

Caldwell v. The United States.
made either to recover the goods or their value. Therefore, under that section,
any rights in the goods acquired bond fde by third persons in the mean time are
protected.
The claimants prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the United States were not
entitled to recover under the first and second counts of the information founded
on the fiftieth section, unless the goods were unladen and delivered without permits. The jury was told, in reply,-"If the permits were obtained by fraud and
improper means, they were of no effect, and a mere nullity. The United States
are entitled to recover, if the goods were imported with the view to defraud the
revenues."
Vhether or not the permits were obtained by fraud or improper means
was a point in the cause for the jury to decide, and what the court said upon the
prayer was virtually saying to the jury, that a verdict might be returned upon the
first and second counts against the claimants, and that they were liable to the
penalties of the act for unlading goods without a permit, without saying if they
thought that there was evidence enough.o prove the fact against them.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of ihe United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The case was this.
In August, 1839, the attorney of the United States filed an
information in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, against thirty-five remnants
of pieces of cloths and cassimere, that had'been seized at th °
store of James Lynd, Jr. & Co.
The information contained thirteen counts.
1. Charged, That the goods were brought from a foreign port'
into some port or place in the United States, to the attorney of
the United States yet unknown, and were unladen and delivered from the vessel in which they had been brought,* without
any permit or special license from the collector or naval officer
or any qther competent officer of the customs. Act of 1799,
450 (1 Stat. at Large, 665).
2. Charged, That the goods were brought into the port of
New York, and there unladen and delivered without a permit.
Act of 1799, § 50 (Ibid.).
3. That the said goods were found concealed in a certain
store in the occupation of William Blackburne & Co., at the
-port of Philadelphia, the duties on said goods not having bea
paid or secured to be paid. Act of 1799, § 68 (1 Stat. at
Large, 677).
4. That the said goods were, on their importation, entered at
the office of the collector of New York; and that on each and
every of the entries, an invoice of the goods included in the entry was produced and left with the collector. That the said
goods were not invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at
the place of exportation, but were invoiced at a less sum than
the actual cost, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or
some part thereof. Act of 1799, § 66 (1 Stat. at Large, 677).

- 368

6 SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

5. That-entries of the said goods, at the time of their importation, were made at the office of the collector of New York;
and that on each of the-entries an invoice of the goods, &c.,was produced and left with the said collector. That all and
each of the said invoices so produced, and all and each of the
several packages, in each and every of the said invoices in which
the said goods were imported, were made up with intent, by a
false valuation, to evade and defraud the revenue of the United
States. Act of 1830 (4 Stat. at Large, 410).
6. That entries of the said goods, at the time of their importation, were made at the office of the collector of New York;
that on each of the entries an invoice of the goods was produced
and left with the collector; that all and each of the said invoices
were made up with intent, by a false valuation, to evade and
defraud the revenue of the United States. 'Act of 1830, § 4
(4 Stat. at Large, 410).
7. That all and each of the several packages contained in
each and every of the entries, and each and every of the invoices so produced, were made up with intent, by a false valuation, to evade and defraud the revenue. Act of 1830, 4 4 (4
Stat. at Large, 410).
8. Charges that the invoices were made up by a false extension, to evade and defraud the revenue of the United States.
Act of 1830 (4 Stat. at Large, 410.)
9. That the goods, &c., being composed wholly or in part of
wool or cotton, were entered, at the times of their importation,
at the office of the Collector of New York; that invoices were
produced and left with the collector; that all and each of the
packages in each and every of the invoices, and each and every
of the entries, were made up with intent to evade and defraud
the revenue of the United States. Act of 1832 (4 Stat. at
Large, 593).
10. As amended, the same with the 4th.
11. As amended, the same with the 6th.
12. As amended, the same with the 7th.
13. As amended, the same with the 9th.
To this information the claimants put in fbree pleas :
1st. Traversing the several causes of forfeiture alleged.
2d. The second plea, which was to all the counts save the
two first, alleged that claimants, prior to goods being seized,
had boAa fide purchased the goods for full value, without any
notice or kfiowledge of their being liable to seizure or forfeiture, under or by an act of Congress, entitled "an act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage," from persons having the ostensible ownership of them, and that at the

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

369

Caldwell v. The United States.

time of seizure the goods were in no way whatever concealed,
within the meaning of any act of Congress.
3d. The third plea alleged that the goods, prior to their seizure, had been duly entered, passed through the custom-house,
&c., the duties imposed paid, and the goods thereupon delivered to the importers; that afterwards the several packages, of
which these goods formed part, were broken up and divided;
that subsequently these goods were at sundry times purchased
bond.fide, and for full value, from persons having the ostensible
ownership of same, and without notice or knowledge that they
were liable to seizure or forfeiture under any act of Congress
for any cause; that no part of the goods hadbeen imported or
entered by the claimants; that at the time of seizure they were
not in original packages, nor concealed, but openly exposed for
sale on the shelves of claimants' store.
To the first of these, the United States joined issue.
To the second and third demurred generally, and claimants
joined in demurrer.
These two pleas denying every cause of forfeiture except the
single one of the goods having been falsely invoiced, it is believed that all the material questions afterwards arising on the
trial of the cause are raised by these demurrers; but for greater caution, the same points were again raised on the trial, in the
shape of cxceptions to the judge's charge and otherwise.
On the trial it appeared that James Lynd, Jr. & Co. kept a
wholesale and retail dry goods store in Philadelphia, and were
in the habit of purchasing goods from W. Blackburne & Co.
and John Taylor, Jr.; that at the time of the seizure, the officer
inquired'for and took from them, at their store, all the goods
which had been purchased from Blackburne & Co., or from
John Taylor, Jr.; and that the goods seized were at the time
distributed among other goods in single pieces and parts of
pieces, on the shelves of claimants' store, for sale, without any
appearance of concealment whatever. -Evidence was, under
objections, offered to show that part of the goods seized corresponded in numbers with pieces forming parts of various invoices that had been in 1838 and 1839 fraudulently entered by
Blackburne and Taylor, at prices below their value in England,
whence they had been exported.
There was no. evidence of any other cause of forfeiture whatever.
For the purpose of fixing the fraud, evidence was likewise
given, under similar objections, of other fraudulent invoices
made about the same time by Blackburne and Taylor, and likewise of conversations with Blackburne some days before the

370

SUPREMI.

E COURT.

Caldwell v. The United States.

seizure, about other invoices and other goods, and the concealment of said other goods from the officers.
There was no attempt to show that the claimants had any
part in this concealment, nor in the making of the false entries;
but, on the contrary, it appeared that the goods had been fairly
and bondfide purchased and settled for before the seizure.
The claimants contended, that where goods are imported, entered at the custom-house, duties imposed and paid according
to such entry, and a permit and license thereupon granted, under which the goods are delivered to the importer, the original
packages subsequently broken, and part of them sold to a bone
fide purchaser without notice, and before the United States had
made any election, the goods so sold are not liable to seizure in
the hands of such bondfide holder, though they may have been
fraudulently entered by being invoiced below their actual cost;
&,c.
The attorney of the United States contended, on the contrary, that, from the moment the fraudulent entry was made,
the goods became forfeited, and the title of the United States
accrued so as to defeat the right of a subsequent bond fide purchaser without notice, and that when the goods are delivered
under a permit obtained under such fraudulent entry, it is as
though no permit had been given, and the goods had been delivered without permit.
The counsel for the claimants asked the court to instruct the
jury, First. That there cannot be a forfeiture of the goods under
the fourth section of the act of 1830, nor under the fourteenth
section of the act of 1832, unless the information alleges, and
the United States have proved, all the special circumstances of
the examination and detection of the fraud, under the authority
of the collector, in the manner pointed out in said acts of Congress.
On which the court instructed the jury, - This is correct;
but there may be a forfeiture under the act of 1799.
Second. That the probable cause mentioned in the seventyfirst section of the act of Congress f 1799, chapter 22, refers
to the right of seizure under said act; and the right of seizure
depends on the fact, whether, at the time of their being seized,
the goods were concealed within the meaning of the sixtyeighth section of said act.
On which the court i,.structed the jury,- This is not law
as applied to this case. The probable cause applies to all cases
of seizure for any fraud under any of the revenue laws, and
any section of any such law. Whether there was probable

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

371

Caldwell v. The United States.

cause for the prosecution does not depend upon whether there
was originally ground for the seizure or not, but upon the proot
at the trial in support of the prosecution.
Third. That the term concealed, in said sixty-eighth section,
applies only to articles intended to be secreted and withdrawn
from public view, on account of the duties not having been
paid, or secured to be 'paid, or from some other fraudulent
motive; which the court answered affirmatively.
Fourth. That if the goods were not so concealed, nor any
probable cause to suspect their concealment at the time of their
seizure, the burden of proof is upon the United States; that
neither the existence of probable cause to suspect that goods,
upon which the duties had not been paid, or secured to be
paid, were in possession of the claimants, nor the fact that
goods were found in their possession which had been fraudulently invoiced or entered, is sufficient to justify a seizure under said sixty-eighth section, unless the goods were concealed
by them, or they were parties or privies to the false invoices or
entries.
On which the court instructed the jury, -This is not -the
law. The burden of proof is not upon the United States,
though the goods may not have been concealed, nor any.probable
cause to suspect their concealment at the time of their seizure,
if there was probable cause to believe the duties upon them
had not been paid or secured.
Fifth. That if the goods seized had been fairly and bonafide
purchased by the claimants, without any knowledge by them
of their being liable to seizure on the part of the United States,
and were, at the time of the seizure, openly exposed 'by them
for sale in their store, the United States cannot recover under
the sixty-sixth or sixty-eighth section of said act of 1799, even
though the goods had been fraudulently or falsely invoiced
or entered, provided the claimants were in no way parties
thereto.
is not the
On which the court instructed the jury, -This
law. If the goods were fraudulently entered; it is no matter in
whose possession they were when seized; the forfeiture took
place when the fraud, if any, was committed, and the seller
could convey no title to the purchaser.
Sixth. That even though the goods in question had been
invoiced at less than actual cost thereof at the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, the United
States had no title in the goods until they -made their election,
either to recover the goods themselves, or the value thereof;
and that any rights in said goods acquired bonafide by third

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

persons in the mean time are protected against the right of
forfeiture under this section.
On which the court instructed the jury, - This is not the
law. The title of the United States vested at the time the
fraud, if any, was committed, and the law authorized them to
seize the goods wherever they might be found.
Seventh. That the United States are not entitled to recover
under the first and second counts of the information, unless the
goods were unladen, and delivered without permits.
On which the court charged,- If the permits were obtained
by fraud and improper means, they are of no effect, and a mere
nullity. The United States are entitled to recover, if the.
goods were imported with the 'iew to defraud the revenue.
Eighth. That the burden of proof in this case, under the
sevpnty-first section of the act of '1799, is upon the United
States.
On which the court charged, - This is not so; the burden
of proof is on the claimants.
The counsel for claimants also asked the court to charge,
Ninth. That the claimants are not bound to prove the innocence of intent of the importers in making the invoices.
Tenth. The claimants are not bound to prove the actual
cost or value of the goods at the place of exportation.
Eleventh. The claimants are not -bound to prove innocence
of intent of the importers in making their, invoices, nor the
actual cost at the place of exportation when they were appraised at the custom-house.
Twelfth. That the permits, and the delivery of these goods
from the custom-house, is a bar in all cases against any forfeitures, except where the claimants are parties or privies to the
fraud in obtaining them, or had knowledge of the same.
Thirteenth. If the vendor is liable to the claimants of the
goods seized for indemnity for the forfeiture of them, the seizure does not invalidate the sale, or impair the title of claimants. thereto.
But the courf refused so to charge the jury, and further
charged, That the United States have shown probable cause for this
prosecution, and the claimants are bound to prove the inno-.
cence of intent of the importers in making the invoices. That
they are bound to prove the actual cost or value of the goods
at the place of exportation, even though they were appraised at
the custom-house. That the granting permits, and delivery of
these goods from the custom-house, is not a legal bar against
forfeiture in all cases, except where the claimants are parties or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

373

Caldwell v. The United States.
privies to the fraud in obtaining them, or. had knowledge of the
same. And, as to the thirteenth point, that if the goods were
fraudulently entered, no title passed to the claimpnts.
And thereupon the counsel for the said claimants did then
and there except to the aforesaid charge and opinion of the
court.
Under these instructions of the court, the jury found a verdict for the United States, under the act of 1799, ch. 22, sec. 50
and 66, as to all the goods contained in the libel, except two
pieces of cloths, as to which they found for the claimants. The
judgment of the District Court followed the finding of the jury.
Upon the exceptions above stated, the case went up to the
Circuit Court, which, on the 9th of November, 1846, affirmedL
the judgment of the District Court, and a writ of error brought
the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Fallon, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the United States.
Mr. Fallon, for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points: 1. That the court below erred in not giving judgment in
their favor on the demurrers.
2. That the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury,
as requested by claimants' counsel, that if the goods were not,
within the meaning of the sixty-eighth section of the act of
1799, concealed, nor any probable cause to suspect their concealment at the time of their seizure, the burden of proof is
upon the. United States; that neither the existence of probable
cause to suspect that goods, upon which the duties had not
been paid, or secured to be paid, were in the possession of the
claimants, nor the fact that goods were found in their possession which had been fraudulently invoiced or entered, are sufficient to justify a seizure under said sixty-eighth section, unless
the goods were concealed by them, or they were parties or
privies to the false invoices or entries; and in charging, on the
contrary, that this is not the law; the burden of proof is pot
upon the United States, though the goods may not have been
concealed, nor any probable cause to suspect their concealment
at the time of their seizure, if there was probable cause to believe the duties upon them had not been paid or secured.
3. That the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury,
as requested by claimants' counsel, that if the goods seized had
been fairly and bondfide purchased by the claimants, without
any knowledge by them of their being liable to seizure on the.
part of the United States, and were, at the time of the seizure,
32
VOL. VIII.

374

SUPREME

CO.URT.

Caldwell v. The United States.

openly exposed by them for sale in their store, the United
States cannot recover under the sixty-sixth or sixty-eighth section of said act of 1799, even though the goods had been
fraudulently or falsely invoiced or entered, provided the claimants were in no way parties thereto; and in charging, on the
contrary, that this is not the law, and that if the goods were
fraudulently entered, it was no matter in. whose possession they
were when seized; the forfeiture took place when the fraud,
if any, was committed, and the seller could convey no title to
the purchaser.
4. That .the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury,

as requested by claimants' counsel, that even though the goods
in question had been invoiced at less than actual cost thereof
at the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties
thereupon, the United States had no title in the goods until
they made their election either to recover the goods themselves
or the value thereof; and that any rights in said goods acquired
bond fide by third persons in the mean time are protected
against the right of forfeiture under this section; and in charging, on the contrary, that this is not the law, and that the title
of the United States vested at the time the fraud, if any, was
committed, and the law authorized them to seize the goods
wherever they might be found.
5. That the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury,
as requested by claimants' counsel, that the United States are
not entitled to recover under the first and second counts of the
information, unless the goods v.ere unladen and delivered without permits; and in charging, on the contrary, that if the permits were obtained by fraud and improper means, they are of
no effect, and a mere nullity, and that the United States were
entitled to recover;, if the goods were imported with a view t6
defraud the revenue.
6. That the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury as
requested by claimants' counsel, that the burden of proof in
this case, under the seventy-first section of the act of 1799, is
upon the United States ; and in charging, on the contrary, that
the burden of proof was on the claimants.
7. That the learned judge erred in not instructing the jury,
as requested by claimants' counsel, that the claimants were not
bound to prove .the innocence of intent of the 'importers in
making the invoices; that the claimants were not bound to prove
the actual cost or value of the goods at the place of exportation; that the claimants were not bound to prove innocence of
intent of the importers in making their invoices, nor the actual
cost at the place of exportation when they were appraised at

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

375

Caldwell v. The United States.

the custom-house; that the permits, and the delivery of the
goods at the custom-house is a bar in all cases against forfeitures, except where the claimants are parties or privies to
the fraud in obtaining them, or had a knowledge of the same,
and that if the vendor is liable to the claimants of the goods
seized for indemnity for the forfeiture of them, the seizure
does not invalidate the sale, or impair the title of claimants
thereto.
8. That the learned judge erred in charging the jury, that
the United States have shown probable cause for this prosecution, and the claimants are bound to prove the innocence of intent of the importers in making the invoices. That they are
bound to prove the actual cost or value of the goods at the
place of exportation, even though they were appraised at thli
custom-house.
9. That the learned judge erred in charging the jury, that
the granting permits and delivery of these goods from the custom-house is not a legal bar against forfeiture in all cases, except where the claimants are parties or privies to the fraud in
obtaining them, or had knowledge of the same.
10. That the learned judge erred in charging the jury, that,
as to the thirteenth point, if the goods were fraudulently entered, no title passed to the claimants.
11. The plaintiff in error frther submits; that the case of
Wood v. United" States, 16 Peters, 342, in no way rules the
present case ; that the claimant in that case was the same person who had made the false entry, he having entered them on
his own oath as goods of which he was the actual owner. (See
page 346.) It is therefore submitted, that the language of the
court there applies only to a case where the party making the
false entry is himself the claimant, and not to a case like the
present, where the goods are claimed by a bond fide purchaser
without notice. (See 16 Peters, 361 -36-5.)
12. That the learned judge erred in admitting in evidence
the acts and declarations of John Taylor, Jr., and Win. Blackburne & Co., tending to show fraud in the entry or concealment of, other goods than those in the invoices of which the
goods in question formed part.
In support of these points Mr. Fallon made the following
observations.
It is contended that, at common law, forfeitures have no relation back to time of the offence (except in cases of suicide,
&c.). See 4 Black. Com. 421; Co. Litt. 390 b, 391 a; also
authorities collected by Mr. Justice Story, in United States v.
1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 405, 408, 411, 412; and by

376

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

Judge Winchester, in United. States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch, 356,
363, in note. And though it may be admitted that, Congress
may so provide, that the title shall, by reason of the forfeiture,
relate so as to vest from the time of the offence committed,
such is not the provision of the law under consideration:
The sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799, (1 Stat. at Large,
677,) on which alone this case can be sustained, provides, that,
in case of a false invoice of goods, with design to evade the
duties thereon, "such goods, or the value thereof, to be recovered of the- person making entry, shall be forfeited," showing
-that it Was intended that government should make an election
to take either goods or value from the person making entry.
They certainly could not take both, and their right to either
being precisely equal, neither becomes vested in them till election
made. See opinion of the court, construing the fourth section
of the act of 1792, (1 Stat. at Large, 289,) containing words
precisely alike, ."the ship or its value, to be recovered of the
person making the oath, shall be forfeited." This right of
election, it was held by the court, negatived the argument that
Congress intended that the title should vest from time of offence committed, and protected a bond fide purchaser, who
bought before election made. In this respect, this case is distiniguished from the cases of United States v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 396, where, in the absence of words giving a
right of-election, from the fifth section of the act of 1809, (2
Stat. at Large, 520,) the title was held to vest from time of
offence committed. See p. 308, ibid. To the same effect is
Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 311.
In confirmation of these
views, the court is referred to the 68th section of the act of
1799, (1 Stat. at Large, 678;) which imposes heavy penalties
on parties to pretefided sales ; a precaution hardly necessary, if
it ,were not that a bond fide sale wthout notice would defeat
the recovery by the United States.
It is submitted, that the langifage of the court in Wood v.
United States, 16 Peters, 365, where it is held that the forfeiture accrues upon making the false invoice, in na way conflicts
w ith the present argument. In that case the claimant was the
very party. who had made the false entry, see p. 342, (and indeed had been tried, for perjury, see 14 Peters,) and the argument made by him was, that, the moment the goods passed the
custom-house, the goods were safe; the action of the officers
of the government in passing the goods was, it was argued,
equivalent to a judgment mantling the successful fraud, and that
case-refused only to the bungling deceiver the protection of res
adjudicata. It was in reference to such a case that the language

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

377

Caldwell v. The United States.

in question was used; but it is submitted that, even then, the
opinion of the court is perfectly reconcilable with the present
argument. All that the court decided was, that the "forfeiture," that is, the penalty or right to recover, accrued at once
on commission of the offence; but whether that forfeiture
should be of "the goods, or of the value thereof," must depend upon the exercise of their right of election, and until that
right be exercised, intervening rights are protected.
Also, it is submitted that the fiftieth section of the act of
1799, (1 Stat. at Large, 655,) was meant to provide against
cases of smuggling in goods at places other than ports of entry,
or without passing the custom-house, &c. Such was not this
case. There was no evidence, or pretence whatever, of fraud
in obtaining the permits. The fraud was in making the false
entries or invoices, and frauds of that character are specially.
provided for by the subsequent sections of the act. It is therefore contended, that, under the evidence, and so far as respects
this case, the learned judge erred. in charging that, if the permits were obtained by fraud, they are of no effect.
A contrary construction of the act from what is now contended for induced the court erroneously, as is submitted, to
permit evidence to be given of frauds on the revenue, committed by the original importers in other importations and in other
ways, thus treating the claimant as a particeps criminum. It
may be admitted that, in cases of conspiracy, fraud, &c., the
quo animo may be shown by evidence of similar frauds committed by the same parties about the same time. But this rule
has never been extended farther. To oblige an innocent purchaser to defend his vendor, or perhaps his more remote vendor, from every imputation of fraud that may be brought against
him, though unconnected with the goods bought by him, and
of which he could have had no knowledge, would be to impose
a hardship so intolerable as to be revoltintg to every sense of
justice ; and yet perhaps it is the necessary consequence of the
construction now complained of.
On the part of the United States, Mr. Johnson (AttorneyGeneral) made the following points.
1. That probable cause was shown for the prosecution, so as
to throw the onus probandi of innocence on the claimant.
Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342; Taylor v. Blackburn, 3
How. 197; Buckley v. United States, 4 How. 251; Clifton v.
United States, Ibid. 242.
2. That the acts and declarations of John Taylor, Jr., and
William Blackburne & Co., showing fraud in the entries,
32*

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

invoices, and concealment of other goods than the goods in
question, were evidence, as tending to show fraud in the entries, invoices, and concealment of the latter goods. Same authorities above cited.
3. That the goods not being invoicedat the time of their
entry, at the actual cost at the place of exportation, but below
the said cost, and with the design to evade the duties thereon,
the same were at once forfeited to the United States; not only
as against the fraudulent importer, but as against a purchaser
without notice from such importer. Same authorities as are
cited under the first point, and United States v. 1960 Bags of
Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; Roberts v. Witherhead, 5 Mod. 193;
12 Mod. 92 ;> 1 Salk. 223; Lockyer v. Offley, 1 Term Rep.
252; Wilkins v. Despard, 5 Term Rep. 112.
4. That the United States were entitled to recover under
the first and second counts of the information, although the
goods were unladen and delivered with permits, if these permits were obtained by fraud and improper means; and that
they were entitled to recover if the goods were imported with
a view to defraud the revenue. Bottomley v. United States, 1
Story, 146.
5. That the instructions asked below, by the claimant, as to
the construction of the fourth section of the act of 1830, and
the fourteenth of that of 1832, and the proof which the United
States should offer to bring the present case within these sections, were erroneous; but if not, the judge below was right
in saying, that, independent of these acts, the United States
were entitled to recover under the act of 1799. The same authorities as are cited under the first point.
6. That, admitting that a purchaser for value and without
notice could not be affected by a forfeiture under the sixtysixth section of the act of 1799, yet the judgment below being
on the first, second, and fourth counts, is correct, because the
first plea of the claimant does not profess to answer the first
and 'second counts; and the second plea, which is to all the
counts, is no answer to the first and second counts, and being
bad in part, is bad altogether. 7 Cranch, 339 ; 16 Peters, 357;
4 Howard, 250 ; 1 Chitty's Plead. 546 ; Biggs v. Cox, 7 Dowl.
& Ryl. 410.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall direct the reversal of the judgment of the Circuit
Court in this case, on account of three erroneous instructions
which were given to the jury. The prayers upon which those
instructions were given are the fifth, sixth, and seventh.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

379

Caldwell v. The United States.

They involve the question, as to the time when the right of
forfeiture attaches upon the entry of goods invoiced at less than
their value at the place of exportation, under a statute which
declares in such a case, that either the goods, or the value of
them, shall be forfeited.
The instructions were. given by the learned judge in the
court below, upon the supposition that they were required by
the decision which this court made in Wood's case, 16 Peters,
342, particularly upon account of a sentence in the opinion at
the three hundred and sixty-fifth page of the volume.
It was supposed to be a repetition in that case of what had
been adjudged by the court, in the cases of The United States
v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, and in The Brigantine Mars, 8 Cranch,
398, 417. Or that those cases did not permit instructions to
be given to the jury as they were asked by the counsel for the
claimants, and did permit the court to give the following: That the title of the United States vested in the goods entered
upon an undervalued invoice, at the time the fraud was committed, and the law authorized the United States to seize the
goods wherever they might be found.
Neither of the cases mentioned authorizes such a conclusion.
There is a sentence in Wood's case, from which it may be
made, unless it is carefully considered in connection with the
last of the paragraph and with the first part of the next. That
But under the sixty-sixth section no such allesentence is,-"
gations would be necessary or proper, as the forfeiture immediately attaches to every entry of goods falsely and fraudulently
invoiced, without any reference whatever to the mode or the
circumstances under or by which it was ascertained."
The sixty-sixth section of the act to regulate the collection
of duties upon imports and tonnage, (1 Statutes at Large, 677,)
is, "1that if any goods, wares, or merchandise, of which entry
shall have been made in the office of a-collector, shall not be
invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any
part thereof, all such goods, wares, and merchandise, or the
value thereof,,to be recovered from the person making the entry, shall be forfeited."
It cannot be correctly said, when the declaration of forfeiture
is disjunctively one or the other, of either the goods or their
value, that the forfeiture upon the fraudulent entry necessarily
and compulsively comprehends the first, to the exclusion of
the value of the goods, which is also said may be a forfeiture
-that
is, that the goods are forfeited with a right in the government to assert a forfeiture of the value too, where the pen-

380

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

alty for the fraud committed can only be one of them, and not
both; or that when this court said in Wood's case, speaking of
the sixty-sixth section, that "forfeiture immediately attaches
to every entry of goods falsely and fraudulently invoiced," it
-was not intended to embrace either or both penalties, between
which the United States might make its election for the punishment of the fraud.
That such is the meaning of the sentence already cited from
Wood's case is shown by the court's recognition,..in the next,
of the alternative forfeiture of the value of the goods, to be recovered of the person making the false entry; and, also, by the
use it makes of it, to show that the sixty-sixth section had not
been repealed, because no such provision exists in the acts of
1830 or 1832, and no subsequent act covers all the cases provided for by it. The point in discussion in that part of the
opinion was, whether the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799,
ch. 22, had been repealed, or whether it was in full force.
The court, arguing against the repeal, used the alternative forfeiture in it of the value of the goods, and the want of the
same in other acts, to show that it was still in full force; in
that way satisfactorily establishing that the words, "the forfeiture immediately attaches to every entry of goods falsely and
fraudulently invoiced," apply to the entry; not to make the
goods a vested forfeiture in the United States, but to show that
the right in the United States to either forfeiture is coexistent
with the commission of the fraud.
But if the explanation given of that part of Wood's case
shall not be as satisfactory to others as it is to ourselves, though
we think it will be so to all .persons, we then say, that the point
there in discussion, concerning the sixty-sixth section, is altogether different from that which we are here considering under the same section; and that any declaration concerning it
used argumentatively, only to show a difference between it and
other statutes in a point of pleading, as is the fact in that part
of the opinion, cannot be an applicable authority, much less
controlling, when the inquiry under the same statute is its
meaning in. respect to the attachment of penalties in it for its
violation.
In Wood's case, the point in discussion is, that the United
States aib not entitled to recover under the third count in that
information, because the sixty-sixth section of the act of Congress, passed the 2d of March, 1799, entitled "an act to regulate the collection of duties on imports, &c.," was not in force
when the goods mentioned in the count were imported.
The point we. are now considering, arising under the same

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

381

Caldwell v. The United States.

section, is, Are goods entered upon an invoice not according to
the value thereof at the place of exportation, with design to
evade the duties thereon or any part thereof, eo intantiupon
the false entry a forfeiture to the United States, so as to avoid
an intermediate sale of them to a bondfide purchaser, or one altogether ignorant of the fraud, and in no way connected with
the perpetrator of it, except in buying the goods from him for a
fair price? The claimants in this case contended, in the trial in
the Circuit Court, that neither under the sixty-sixth nor the
sixty-eighth section were the goods, eo instanti upon the commission of the fraud, forfeited to the United States, "if the
goods seized had been fairly and bond fide purchased by them.
without any knowledge by them of their being liable to seizure,
and were, at the time of the seizure, openly exposed by them
for sale in their stores, though the goods had been jfraudulently or falsely invoiced or entered, provided the claimants were
in no way parties thereto." And, "that though the goods in
question had been invoiced at less than actual cost of them at
the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereon, the United States had no title in the goods until they made
their election, either to recover the goods themselves, or the
value thereof. And that any rights in said goods acquired
bond fide by third persons in the mean time are protected
against the right of forfeiture under the sixty-sixth section.
The claimants asked that such instructions should be given
by the court to the jury. The court refused, but did instruct
the jury, "that if the goods were fraudulently entered, it is no
matter in whose possession they were when seized, or whether
the United States had made an election between the penalties;
and that the forfeiture took place when the fraud, if any,
was committed, and the seller of the goods could convey no
title to the purchaser." This instruction is partly right and
partly wrong; right in respect to th6 sixty-eighth section, as
the penalty is the forfeiture of the goods without an alternative
of their value; wrong as the instruction applies to the sixtysixth section, the forfeiture under it being either the goods or
their value.
In the first, the forfeiture is, the statutory transfer of right to
the goods at the time the offence is committed. If this was not
so, the transgressor, against whom, of course, the penalty is directed, would often escape punishment, and triumph in the
cleverness of his contrivance by which he has violated the law.
The title of the United States to the goods forfeited is not consummated until after judiiial condemnation; but the right to
them relates backwards to the time the offence was committed,

282

SUPREME COURT.
Caldwell v. The United States.

so as to avoid all intermediate sales of them between the commission of the offence and condemnation.
So this court said in the case of United States v. 1960 Bags
of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398. It was said again, in the case of The
United States v. Brigantine Mars, 8 Cranch, 417. Declared again
four years afterwards, in Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 311, in
The forfeiture' must be deemed to attach at
these words -"
the moment the offence is committed," so as to avoid all sales
afterwards.
The 'differences in time when the transfer of right in forfeited goods takes place, under such provisions for forfeiture as
are found in the sixty-sixth and sixty-eighth sections of the
act of 1799, were fully considered and ruled by this court in
United States v. Grundy and- Thornburg, 3 Cmnch, 337. It
was afterwards noticedand assented to by the Attorney-General of the United States, in his argument in the case of the
1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; and has always been
considered, frQm the time it was made, as the proper interpretation of a statute providing for a forfeiture for 4n offence,
either of goods or their value. No case can be found. in our.
own or the English courts in conflict with itk
We must therefore say,, that the instructions given upon the.
fifth and sixth prayers of the claimants were erroneous.
Our conclusion, also, is, that there was error in the instruction
given by the court upon the seventh prayer of the claimants.
The prayer is, "that the United States are not entitled to recover, under the first and second counts of the information,
unless the goods were unladen and delivered without permits."
The difference between the first and second counts-is, that the
allegation in the first is, that the goods were brought into some
port, or place in the United States unknown, unladen and delivered; and in <the second, that they. were brought into the
port of New York, and unladen and delivered there; and in
both, without any permit or special license froi the collector,
or any other competent officer of the customs.
The response of the court to the prayer is, -" If.the permits"
were obtained by fraud and improper means, they were of no
effect, and a'mere nullity. Thp United States are entitled to
recover, if the goods were imported with the view to defraud
the revenue."
-,The direct and proper response-to that prayer ought to have
been, that, as the first, and second counts were framed upon the
fifti.eth section .of the act of 1799, by which a fine is imposed
Upon persons unlading and delivering goods without a permit,
if the jury should find that the •goods in question had been

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

283

Caldwell v. The United States.

so unladen by the claimants, then they were liable to the penalty provided in that section; or if the goods were unladen
by them with a permit, the jury could not find a verdict 'against
the claimants upon the first and second counts.
The prayer does not involve, either in terms or inferentially
from them, the legal effect or sufficiency of a permit obtained by
improper means, or fraud upon the unlading of goods under it;
or that the permit under which the goods in question may have
been landed had been fraudulently obtained, and the goods landed under it by the claimants. When, then, the jury were told,
that a permit obtained by fraud or improper means was of no
effect and a nullity, it was virtually saying to them, that a verdict might be returned upon the first and second counts against
the claimants, and that they were liable to the penalties of the
act for unlading goods without a permit, without saying, if they
thought that there was evidence enough to prove the fact
against them. And the court, by adding, that "the United
States are entitled to recover, if the goods were imported
with the view to defraud the revenue," stated a proposition
out of the case; for there was no such count in the information, or any statute of the United States, for the punishment
of frauds in the importation of goods, upon which a count
could have been framed in the words of the instruction. The
instruction was calculated to mislead the jury into a conclusion,
that the suit was against the claimants for a meditated fraud
in the importation of the goods in question, whi6h had rendered them liable to be forfeited.
It is not necessary to notice the other prayers asked, refiise.d,
and given in this case. It was argued before this court only
upon the three already stated, the answers to which we have
said -are erroneous.
We shall; therefore, remand the cause, with an order for the
reversal of the judgment, and for a venire de novo, that further
proceedings may be had thereon in conformity with this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court affirming the judgment of the District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a disaffirmance of the judgment of the District

384

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

Court, and to remand this cause to the said District Court, with
directi6ns to that court to award a venire facias de novo, and
for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the
opinion of this court.

EDDiuND T. H. GI.soN,

PLAINTIFF IN EiROR,
STEVENS, DEFENDANT.

V.

BRADFORD

B.

Where personal property is, from its character or situation at the time of the.sale,
incapable of actual delivery, the delivery of the bill of sale, or other evidence of
title, is sufficient to transfer the property and possession to the vendee.
Where articles of commerce were purchased in the State of Indiana, and the vendors, in whose warehouses they were lying, gave a written memorandum of the
sal6,'with a receipt for the money, and an engagement to deliver them on board of
canal-boats soon after the opening of canal navigation, these documents transferred the property and the possession of the articles to the purchasers.
These documents, being indorsed and delivered to a merchant in New York, in consideration of advances of money in the usual course of trade, transferred to him
the legal title and constructive possession of the property.
Therefore, an attachment subsequently issued, at the instance of a creditor of the
original purchasers, which was levied upon the property in question, could not he
maintained.
This court will judicially recognize this branch of trade. It has existed long
enough to assume a regular form of dealing, and its ordinary course and usages
are now publicly known and understood.
The New York merchant stood in the position of an actual purchaser to the extent
of his advances, and not in that of a factor who had made advances upon goods
in his possession.
A guarantee by the first sellers that the articles should pass inspection did not
cange the original sale into an executory contract. It was nothing more than
- the usual warranty of the soundness of the goods sold.

T~is case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the. District of Indiana.
It was an action of replevin brought by Gibson, a citizen
of New York, against Stevens, the sheriff of Allen County,
Indiana, who had in his custody sundry articles of property
which he had taken by virtue of a writ of foreign attachment,
issued under the State laws of Indiana.
The facts in the case were agreed upon by the counsel in
the Circuit Court as follows.
Be it remembered, that at the, May term of said court, A. D.
1844, the above cause was submitted to the decision of the
court, without the intervention of a jury, upon the following
agreed facts, to wit: The parties mutually agree that the following are the facts
McQueen & McKay, citizens of the city
in this case: -That
of Detroit, State of Michigan, about the 20th of March, 1844,

