JANUARY TERM, 1850.
-

113

The United States v. Boisdor6's Heirs.

ord from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to enter a decree iii favor of the

complainant, continuing the injunction in this cause, and for such
further proceedings, in conformity to the opinion of this court,
as to law and justice may appertain.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THE HEIRS OF BoisDon .
SAME, APPELLANTS, V. THE HEIRS OF PowERs.
SAME, APPELLANTS, v. THE HEIRS OF TURNsR.
In 1824, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at Large, 52), entitled "An act enabling the
claimants to lands within the limits of the State of Missouri and Territory of
Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims."
The seond section provided that, in "all cases, the'party against whom the jndgment or decree of the said District Court may be finally given, shall be entitled to
an appeal, within one year from the time of its rendition, to the Supreme Court
of the United States"; and the fifth section enacted that any claim which shall not
be brought by petition before the said courts within two years from the passing of
the act, or which, after being brought before the said courts, shall, on account of
the neglect or delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision within
three years, shall be for ever barred.
In 1844, Congress passed another act (5 Stat. at Large, 676), entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment of land claims within the States of Missouri, Arkansas,
and Louisiana, and in those parts of the States of Mississippi and Alabama, south
of the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Perdido
Rivers."
It enacted, "that so much of the expired act of 1824 as related to the State of Missonri be, and is hereby, revived and reenacted, and continued in force for the term
of five years, and no longer; and the provisions of that part of the aforesaid act
hereby revived and reenacted shall be, and hereby are, extended to the States of
Louisiana and Arkansas, and to so much of the States of Mississippi and Alabama as is included in the district of country south of the thirty-first degree of
north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers."
Tle act of 1824, revived and reenacted by the act of 1844, did not expire in five
years from the passage of the act of 1844, so far as regards appeals from the District Court to this court. It will continue in force until all the appeals regularly
brought up from the, District Courts shall be finally disposed of.

THE first two of these cases were appeals from the District
Court of lississippi. One of them, viz., The United States v.

The Heirs of Boisdor6, was the same case in which a motion to
dismiss was made at the preceding term, as reported in 7 Howard, 658.

114

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6's Heirs.

The third was an appeal from the District Court of Louisiana.
A motion was now made to dismiss the whole three, upon a
ground which was common to them all, viz., that the act of
1844, reviving and reenacting the act of 1824, continued it
in force for the term of five years, and no longer; and that, as
the act was passed on the 17th of June, 1844, it expired upon
the 17th of June, 1849. By reason of which expiration, it was
alleged, this court had no longer any jurisdiction over the case.
By an act of June 17th, 1844, (5 Statutes at Large, 676,)
entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment of land claims
within the States of Missouri, Arkansas, and Louisiana, and ill
those parts of the States of Mississippi and Alabama south of
the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers," it is enacted, "That so much of
the expired act of the 26th of May, 1824, entitled 'An act to
enable claimants to land within the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their claims,' as related to the State of Missouri ......
be and
is hereby revived and regnacted, and continued in force for the
term.of five years, and no longer; and the provisions of that
part of the aforesaid act, hereby revived and reenacted, shall be
and hereby are extended," to the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, &c., "in the same way, and with the same rights, powers, and jurisdictions, to every extent they can be rendered applicable, as if these States had been enumerated in the original
act hereby revived, and the enactments expressly applied to
them, as to the State of Missouri; and the District Court and
the judges thereof, in each of these States, shall have and exercise the like jurisdiction over the land claims in their respective States and districts, originating with either the- Spanish,
French, or British authorities, as by said art was given to the
court and the judge thereof in the State of Missouri."
The act of the 26th of May, 1824, thus revived and regnacted, (4 Statutes at Large, 52,) after describing the classes of
cases embraced within its provisions, prescribes, that the claimants shall present a petition to the District Court, setting forth
their claims; that proper parties, including the district attorney,
shall be made; that the proceedings shall be eonducted according to the rules of a cot -t of equity; and that the said court
shall have power to hear and determine the questions arising
in the cause, and to make a decree. It then, in the latter part
of the second section, enacts: - "And in all cases, the party
against whom the judgment or decree of the said District Court
may be finally given shall be entitled to an appeal, within one

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

115

The United States v. Boisdor6's Heirs.

year from the time of its rendition, to the Supreme Court of
the United States, the decision of which court shall be final
and conclusive between the parties; and should no appeal be
taken, the judgment or decree of the said District Court shall,
in like manner, be final and conclusive."
By the fifth section it is enacted "that any claim to lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, within the purview of this act,
which shall not be brought by petition before the said courts
within two years from the passing of this act, or which, after
being brought-before the said courts, shall, on account of the
neglect or delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final
decision within three years, shall be for ever barred, both at law
and-in equity ; 'and no other action at common law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever thereafter be sustained, in any court
whatever, in relation to said claims."
In the three cases ,above mentioned, petitions had been filed
in the respective courts, and the district judge confirmed the
claims to the several petitioners. The United States appealed
to this court.
The motion to dismiss was su'stained by Mfr. TVolney Howard and Mr. Henderson, and opposbd by M/fr. Gillet and Mr.
Johnson (Attorney-General).
The motion and brief, as filed by Mr. Henderson,were as
follows.
The appellees have presented their respective motions tb dismiss these cases, in form as follows:"And now at this term come the appellees, by attorney, and
move the court to dismiss this case, because the court has no
jurisdiction thereof, in this, to wit :-That the court from
which this case is brought here by appeal had bdt a limited
and special jurisdiction of the case iffvirtfte of two acts of Congress, the one of date 17th June, '1844, elititled 'An act to
provide for the adjustment of land clai..s within the States of
Missouri, Arkatisas, Louigiana, and thbse pPtts of the States of
Mississippi and Alabama south of thl 31st degree of' north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Pbrdido Rivers,' and
which said act revived a certain Jthe expired act therein
recited of date 26th .Tay, 1824, for fivd years and no longer,
and during ihe operative ekisteice of whifi' two acts, the decree in this case was pronounced.--! And ' hcausb by virtue of
which said act of 1824, so revived as afor6said, and by no other
law or authority whatever, this court was "assigned to have a
like special jurisdiction 'of this case by appeal; but which act,
so revived as aforesaid, ceased and expired bit the 17th of June,

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor 's Heirs.

1849, by express legislative limitation, without any saving
clause for the adjudication of cases then pending."
Assuming the facts to be as set forth in this motion, we contend that there is now no law in force giving to this court jurisdiction of these cases, or of supplying any rule by which it can
review them; and the same must therefore be dismissed.
It is well settled, that this court has no general jurisdiction
in matters of appeal. That unless Congress authorize an appeal by statute, none can be entertained. 11 Pet. 165, 166 ;
3 How. 104; 6 Pet. 495; 1 Cranch, 212; 3Cranch, 159; 6
Cranch, 307; 3 Dall. 321, 327; 1 How. 268; 3 How. 317;
7 Wheat. 38 3 Pet. 193 ; 7 Pet. 568.
It is equally well settled, that the United States have no
greater claim to assert the right of appeal, or any other legal
right as a litigant, than a citizen has; and have no right of
appeal unless expressly accorded to them by act of Congress.
6 Pet. 494; 11 Pet. 165, 166.
If, therefore, it be shown that the appeal given by the statute of 1824 was special, and had its origin with that statute,
and that the statute conferred a special and peculiar jurisdiction,
appellate as well as original, and, that said statute has expired
or is repealed, we suppose the legal conclusion of such showing to be demonstrative in favor of our motion to dismiss,
unless some other law be shown to sustain the appeal.
A mere glance at the records and decrees in these cases, show
them to have been adjudicated in pursuance of the authority
conferred by these two statutes. And the reading of the statute
of 1824 will certify the speciality of the jurisdiction it confers
in every section.

It is special as to the States to which it applies, being but
five in number. Special as to the classes of cases it submits
for trial; and even excepts one case of the classes submitted.
It is special in designating the court to have cognizance of
the cases, and directing the mode of procedure. Selecting the
District Courts of the United States, which have no general
chancery jurisdiction, and'directing them to adjudicate the
cases in accordance with equity practice.
It is peculiarly special, also, in enlarging the field of equity
power in the latitude given for the ,decision of these cases.
Submitting them to be adjudged in "conformity with the principles of justice,', and.." according to the law of nations; the
stipulations of any treaty, and proceedings under the same; the
several acts of Congress in relation thereto; the laws and ordinances of the government, from which it (the title) is alleged to
have been derived; and all other questions properly arising
between the claimant and the United States."

JANUARY TE-RM,

1850.

117

The United States v. Boisdor&'s Heirs.

It is strikingly special in, permitting the citizen to implead
and litigate with the government.
The rules of evidence are special; the common law. rules
being relaxed in these cases.
The statute submitted, also, legal and complete titles to be
tried under equitable rules.
The decree to be pronounced was special in its recitals and
requirements.
The powers of the court were peculiarly special, also, in
being permitted to decree the survey of the claims adjudged,
though affecting the public domain.
And the operation and effect of the decree are also singularly
special, when, after adjudging the title of the petitioner in his
favor, it- deprived him of so much of the claim as the United
States had previously disposed of, and turned him over for
reclamation upon the public lands: the decree, to this extent,
thus operating as land scrip.
The time allowed for an appeal from decrees pronounced under this statute is special, being limited to one year.
Such are a portion of the peculiar and special rules under
which proceedings in these cases have been carried on, and the
decrees pronounced, pursuant to the act of 26th May, 1824,
and while it was in force. And such only must be the rules
by which this court can review and revise these cases, if it assumes to review them at all. It must be certainly requisite,
then, if this court is to review these cases by these rules, (being
the rules by which the court below adjudged them,) the rules
themselves must have vitality, and be in force. Because, from
no other laws and from no other source of authority, can these
rules be invoked, but from the act of 1824. But this act, by
the special limitation of the act of 1844, which revived it, was
prescribed in the precise measure and duration of its operative
existence; and the act again became functus on the 17th of
June, 1849.
This act, therefore, which conferred specially all the jurisdiction this court could ever entertain of these cases, is now
as if it had never been, except as to the rights it conferred,
consummated, or established, while in force.
This court, then, can have no right to retain these cases upon
its docket, because it has no rule, law, or authority in existence by which it can try and adjudge them. In other words,
the jurisdiction by which it was contemplated this court should
have cognizance of these cases was wholly special, and the law
which conferred it is extinct, and has ceased to be a rule. And
this conclusion we think clearly sustained by the following au-

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Boisdor 's Heirs.

thorities. Miller's case, 3 Burr. 1456; 1 Hill, 328-336; 2
Pet. 523, 524; 5 Mart. (La.) 463; 4 Wend. 211; 6 Wend.
526; 1 Watts, 258; 4 Yeates, 392; 17 Louis. R. 478; Dwarris on Statutes, 676 ; 4 Mann. & Ryl. 586- 588 ; 9 Barn. & Ores.
750; 12 Moore, 357-359; 4 Moore & Payne, 341, 351; 4
Bingh. 212.
We consider the couirt has already construed this statute of
1824 as conferring a special jurisdiction, as well as special remedy. United States v. Curry, 6 How. 113. And see 6 Pet.
493 and 11 Pet. 165, 166.
Coilgress, too, in extending this act of 1824, by the act of
24th May, 1828, (4 Stat. at Large, 298,) obviously discovers its
opinion, that, with the expiration of the law, the jurisdiction
also terminated.
And so, too, in repealing the bankrupt laws of 1800 and, of
1841. In both instances, Congress inserted a saving clause, to
save jurisdiction in cases pending at the time of the repeal ;
and without which, doubtless, those cases would have fallen
with the repeal.
Mr. G-llet said it was not 'his purpose to controvert the correctness of the positions laid down in the cases cited for the
motion. If there was no statute in force conferring jurisdiction
upon the Supreme Court, he should not contend that these appeals could be heard. Nor should he insist that the Judiciary
Act conferred any such power. It was found in the act of
1824, or did not exist at all. It has been contended, that this
act expired in five years from its approval, and was revived
June 17, 1844, for -ive years only, and is not now in force. He
denied the correctness of this assumption, and took issue upon
it. The second and fifth sections of the act of 1824 contain
limitations upon the claimant, as to the time within which the
petition shall be presented, and the cause heard and an appeal
taken. The residue of the act is without limitation. As a
whole, it is as permanent as any other statute. An examination
of its provisions, and especially sections 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 11,
will prove this. The fifth section contains an important limitation, while the seventh contains an important provision appliqable to all bonds not determined to belong to claimants.
There is no limitation upon the jurisdiction of this court, when
t cause is lawfully brought here. The act of 1844 revived
.adcontinued in operation provisions relating to proceedings in
the court below only.
But if we are in error in this view of the statute, then these
appehls, having removed the causes from the court below, can-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

119

The United States v. Boisdor 's Heirs.

not be sent back to that court. If there is no law empowering
this court to hear and determine them, then it has no povier to
act upon them at all, and it can perform no act which will entitle either party to any advantage which they did not possess,
and could not enforce, on the day when'the revival act of 1844.
expired. To dismiss the appeal, and thereby furnish evidence
that the causes had not been lawfully brought here under the
act, would lay the foundation for the claimants to contend thatit was never properly -made, and that they were therefore entitled to patents under tile decisioh, of the district judge.
LIr. Johnson (Attormey-General)'said 'thAt, if the construction given to these laws upon the other side was correct, the
result would be that they could stafid upon -the decree below as
a final decree. But all these lAnd laws did not contemplate
that the decree of the court below was to be final, in case
either party chose to appeal; and we had obtained an appeal
when it was properly taken even upon the showing of the
other side, and when this court had undoubted jurisdiction over
the case. Let us look into the act of 1824, and then examine
what part of it was revived. The dispute is, whether the jurisdiction of this court, when once attached, stopped when five
years expired aftQr the passage of the act of 1844. If we had
now a case before us arising under the act of 1824 alone, without any other act having been passed, this court could decide it
and settle the controversy, provided the appeal had been taken
in proper time.
(Mr. Henderson said he conceded that.)
Then if the opposite counsel concedes that, I think that the
other consequences for which I contend must follow. What
was the character of the act of 1824 ? It describes the claims
which are to be presented, the notice to be given, the proceedings to be had, the principles by which the decision is to be
governed, and states the reasons for granting an appeal to this
court. The claimant had a year to decide whether he would
appeal or not. The District Attorney was directed to consult
the Attorney-General whether or not an appeal should be taken
in case the decision was adverse to the United States. If no
appeal was taken, the decree below was final. If the claimant
succeeded, a copy of the decree was to be presented to the
land office, and he would receive his patent. If he succeeded
by the judgment of this .court, he was to present the certificate
of the clerk of this court to the land office, before he could
receive a patent. But how was this to be done, if the jurisdiction of this court was to cease after the expiration of five years.

120

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6's-Heirs.

from the passage of the act of 1844? It is admitted that, under the act of 1824, the jurisdiction of this court would not
have ceased. Therefore, the opposite counsel must contend
that the two acts are not alike; and yet the act of 1844 extends the act of 1824 "in the same way, and with the same
rights, powers, and jurisdictions to every extent they can be
rendered applicable." Suppose a party were to put off the
trial of his cause in the court below until a late period, or the
court was so pressed with business that the case could not be
taken up, or that the District Attorney could not immediately
report to' the Attorney-General, a decree might be passed for
millions which, would be irrevocably lost to the government;
and yet it is admitted that this would not have been so
under the act of 1824. These laws have always looked to a
supervision, by this court, of. the decree of the District Court;
and if the opposite counsel are-right,-this act of 1844 is an exception to all the laws, and-Congress have committed a palpable blunder.
But reliance is placed by the opposite counsel upon the
phraseology of the act of 1844, namely that the act of 1824 is
continued in force for the term of five years and no longer.
What has this court said about the same expression in another
law? The act of 24th May, 1828, (4 Stat. at Large, 298,)
was to continue in force until the 26th of May, 1830, and no
longer;. and yet cases were decided here long after that day.
This very question was involved and decided in those cases.
If the court had no jurisdiction and the appellate power had
expired, all these jidgments are void. The titles will be lost
to thousands of acres, which are now held under these judgments.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case, for want of jurisdiction in this court to hear and decide it..
It appears that a petition was filed by the appellees in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, pursuant to the acts of Congress of May 26,
1824, and of June 17, 1844, praying to have confirmed to them
a large tract of land, which they claime'd under a concession
or grant which they alleged had been made to their ancestors,
by the Spanish authorities.
The petition was filed on February 1, 1845, and on the 12th
of November, 1847, the'district judge passed his decree confirming the concession; and on the same day the United
States appealed to this court. The motion is made to dismiss,
-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

121

Heirs.
The United States v. Boisdor6's

upon the ground that the act of 1844, which extended to the
State of Mississippi the act of 1824, and rednacted it as to
claims in that State, limited the duration of both acts to five.
years and no longer, and that both of these acts, so far as concerns such claims, expired on the 17th of June, 1849; and this
court having no appellate jurisdiction, unless conferred on it by
act of Congress, and having derived the jurisdiction it heretofore exercised in cases of this description altogether from the
laws above mentioned, its power in this respect ceased when
the laws expired; and there being no act of Congress now in
force authorizing it to review the decree of the District Court
for the Southern District of Mississippi, the appeal of the United States ought to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
It is true that this court can exercise no appellate power over
this case, unless it is conferred upon it by act of Congress.
And if the laws which gave it jurisdiction in such cases have
expired, so far as regards claims in the State of Mississippi, its
jurisdiction over them has ceased, although this appeal was
actually pending in this court when they expired.
But the court is of opinion that the act of 1824, reenacted
by the act of 1844 for the State of Mississippi and the other
States mentioned in that law, has not expired so far as regards
appeals from the District Courts to this court; that it is still in
full force, and unless repealed by Congress will continue in
force, until all the appeals regularly brought up from the Dis.trict Courts shall be finally disposed of.
The act of 1824 originally extended only to the Spanish and
French grants in the State of Missouri, and the then Territory
of Arkansas. It contains no clause limiting generally the duration of the law. The fifth section limits the time within which
the claimants may file their petitions to two years, and gives
the petitioner three years from the time his petition is brought
before the District Court, to prosecute it to a final decision in
that court; but by the second section either party may appeal
to this court, within twelve months from the time of the final
decree in the District Court. And as many of the cases might
and most probably would be decided in the latter period of the
five years within which the party is required to present his
claim and prosecute it to a final decision, it is evident that the
jurisdiction of this court to hear and determine the appeal was
not intended to be limited to the same period. And as there is
.no clause of limitation applying to the whole act, nor as to the
time within which this court shall exercise the appellate power
conferred on it, the act of 1824, in this respect, is a perpetual
one; and if any appeal were at this day depending, which had
VOL. V1.

11

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor 's Heirs.

been regularly brought up from the State of Missouri or the
Territory of Arkansas, the court would have jurisdiction to
hear and decide it.
This construction of the original act of 1824 is, indeed, not
disputed. But it is insisted that it is otherwise when taken in
connection with the act of 1844, which regnacted it for the
States therein mentioned, in one of which this case has arisen.
And it is contended that the duration of the whole act of 1824,
as thus re6nacted, including the appellate jurisdiction of this
court, is restricted to five years from the enactment of the law.
This construction cannot be maintained. In expounding a
statute, we must not be guided by a single sentence or member
of a sentence, but look to the provisions of the whole law, and
to its object and policy. And it was evidently the intention
of the act of 1844 to place the claims under Spanish and
French grants in the States therein mentioned upon precisely
the same footing with the claims in Missouri and the Territory
of Arkansas, and to give the claimants the same rights and remedies, including the right to appeal to this court. For it declares in express terms, that the act of 1824 shall be extended
to them, "in the same way,- and with the same rights, and powers, and jurisdictions to every extent they can be rendered applicable, as if these States had been enumerated in the original
act thereby revived- and the enactments expressly applied to
them, as to the State of Missouri." Now, if they had been included in. the original act, and the enactments applied to them
as -to the State of Missouri, it is admitted that the appellate
jurisdiction of this court would not be limited to five years.
And if it would not, it necessarily follows that it is not limited
by the act when reenacted and extended by the law of 1844.
For if it.were to be so limited, and the jurisdictibn of-this court
ceased in five years, the rights and powers and jurisdictions in
relation to the claimants in these States would be different from
what they would have been if they had been included in the
original law. Such a construction would in effect take away
the jurisdiction of this court, and deprive each party of the right
to appeal within twelve months in the cases decided in the last
year of the five, and would make the appeal in almost every
case inefficient and nugatory. Certainly, there could be no
reason-of policy or justice for making such a difference in the
jurisdiction of this court in different classes of similar cases;
not could such have been intended. The error of the alpellees appears to have arisen from what is evidently an inaccuracy of language in the act of 1844, when it speaks, in the beginning of the enacting clause, of "so much of the -expired act

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

123

The United States v. Boisdor6's Heirs.

of 1824" as related to the State of Missouri. Now the act of
1824, as we have already said, had not expired, and is still in
force. But the fifth section of the act, which gave the claimant two years from the date of the law to file his petition, and
three more to bring it to a final decision, had expired. And the
whole context and provisions of the act of 1844 show that it
was the intention of the legislature to revive this portion of
the act of 1824, and to give to the claimants in the States there
mentioned, as it had given to those in the State of Missouri,
five years to establish their claims, and to subject them in other respects also to the same regulations and jurisdictions in
prosecuting them in the courts of the United States. And the
expression, "so -much of the expired act of 1824," should'have
been, "so much of the act of 1824 as had then expired," in order to make this clause consistent with the residue of the act.
This evident inaccuracy ought not, however, to embarrass the
court in expounding the act, which, taken altogether, is sufficiently plain in its objects and intention, as well as in its language.
The motion to dismiss this appeal must therefore be overruled.
The cases of The United States v. The Heirs of Powers, and
The United States v. The Heirs of Turner, stand upon the
same grounds, and the motions to dismiss them must therefore
be disposed of in like manner.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Henderson, of
counsel for the appellees, on a prior day of the present term of
this court, to wit, on Friday the 14th instant, to dismiss this
cause for the want of jurisdiction, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against as in support of the said motion, it is now here ordered by this court, that the said motion
be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

