JANUA-Y

TERM, 1850.

223

: farsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

ties, and to save the parti s- froi useless expense and-trouble
in bnnging it to issue, and applies with equal force to"a case
barred by the lapse of tlnie,,add the negligence of the complainant, as to one barred by a positiVe act 6' litnitations. In
the case before us, therefore, the demurrer was proper, and must
be sustained, and'the decree of the court below affirmed.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court' of"the United States for the 'Soutliern District of Alabama, and -vas argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is no'~rhere ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

SAMUEL

MARSH, 'WLLIA

E.

LEE,

AND EDWARD

C.

DELAVAN,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. EDWiRD' BROOKS AND VIRGINIA C., HIS
WIFE, FORERLY VIRGIIrA C"RDDICk*I CHARLES P BILLOU AND
FRA-NCES 'E., HIS VIFE, FORMERLY FRANcES'E. REDDICR, WAL-

TER
-

J.

REDDICE AND DABNEY 0. REDDICK BY ELIZA. M. REDDICK,

THEIR GuARDIAN, HEIRS --AT 14AW' OF THODIAS
CEASED, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR;

F

REDDIC,

D".E-

The plaintiff in a writ of right prodnceda patent from the United States, dated in
1839, which contained sundry recitals, referrng to titles of anterior date derived
from acts of Congress for the adjustment of claims to lands. But the patent itself was issued under an act of Congress in 1836.
The defendant, in order to show an outstanding title,,gave in evidence a treaty between the.United States and the Sac and Fox Irldians, in which this.
with other
lands, was reserved for the half-breeds, and an act of Congress passed in 1834 relinquishing the reversionary interest of the United States to these half-breeds.
This was sufficintto show an outstanding title.
The recitals in a patent are not enough to show that the title is of an earlier date
than the patent itself, although they are evidence for some purposes. Nor was it
necessary for the defendant to show that any of the half-breeds were in existence
at the time of the trial.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of Iowa. It was a proceeding in the nature of an ejectmerit, to recover 640 acres on the right bank of the Mississippi
River. The suit was brought by the heirs of Reddick against
one Kilbourn, who was the tenant in possession. By agreement of counsel filed-after the suit was brought, it was admitted
that the defendants in error were the heirs of Thomas F ReTdick, and the plaintiffs-in error were substituted in the placesf
k "
Kilbourn.

224

~

SUPREME COURT.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

The facts were these.
On the 4th of August, 1824, a treaty was made between the
United States and the Sac and Fox Indians, by the first article
of which the Indians ceded to the United States the lands described as follows, viz. - " Within the limits of the State of
Missouri, which are situated, lying, and being between the Mississippi and" Missouri Rivers, and a line running from the Missouri at the entrance of Kansas River north one hundred miles
to the -northwest comer of the State of Missouri, and from
thence east to the Mississippi. It being understood, that the
small tract of land lying between the Rivers Des Moines and the
Mississippi, and the section of the above line between the Mississippi and Des Moines, is intended for the use of the half-breeds
belonging to the Sac and Fox nations, they holding it, however, by the same title and in the same manner that other Indian
titles are held."
On the 30th June, 1834, Congress passed an act (4 Stat.
at Large, 740,) entitled, "An act relinqmshmg the half-breed
lands." It relinquished all the right, title, and interest which
might accrue to the United States m the above reservation, and
vested the land between the rivers Des Moines and Mississippi,
above mentioned, in the half-breeds of the Sac and Fox tribes
of Indians, who were, at the passage of the act, entitled by the
Indian title to the same, with full power and authority to transfer their portions thereof, by sale, devise, or descent, according
to the laws of the State of Missouri.
Both of these documents covered the land in dispute.
On the 1st of July, 1836, Congress passed an act, (6 Stat. at
Large, 661,) relinquishing to the heirs of Thomas F Reddick
all the right, title, claim, and interest which the United States
had to a certain tract of land (understood to be the land in dispute), with the following proviso "Provided, nevertheless, if said lands shall be taken by any
older or better claim not emanating from the United States, the
government will not be in any wise responsible for any remuneration to said heirs, and provided, also, that, should said tract
of land be included in any reservation heretofore made, under
treaty with any Indian tribe, that the said heirs be, and they
hereby are, authorized to locate the same quantity in legal subdi-isions on any unappropriated land of the United States in
,.§id territory, subject to entry at private sale."
On the 7th of February, 1839, a patent was issued by the
United States to -Thomas F Reddick, for the land in controversy, which contained the following recital, viz. -

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

t25

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

"The United States of America, to all to whom these presents
shall come, greeting"
"Know ye, that Thomas F Reddick, assignee of the estate
of Joseph Robidoux, assignee of Louis Honore Tesson, has
deposited in the General Land Office, a certificate numbered
one thousand one hundred and fifty-seven, of the recorder of
land titles at St. Louis, Missouri, whereby it appears that, in
pursuance of the several acts of Congress for the adjustment of
titles and claims to lands, the said Thomas F Reddick, assignee
of the estate of Joseph Robidoux. assignee of Louis Honore
Tesson, has been confirmed in his claim to a tract of land containing six hundred and forty acres, bounded and described as
follows, to wit," &c., &c.
On the 10th of July, 1839, the defendants in error brought
a writ of right (a proceeding recogmzed by the statutes of
Iowa, in the nature of an ejectment) against the tenant in possession under Marsh, Lee; and Delavan. After sundry proceedings, which it is not necessary to state, the cause came on for
trial at September term, 1843, of the District Court, when the
jury, under the instructions of the court, found a verdict for
the plaintiffs.
A bill of exceptions was taken, which set out the evidence
offered by the parties respectively, as follows, viz. The plaintiffs offered in evidence the above patent, proved
that the land claimed was included within it, the heirship of
the plaintiffs, and that the defendant was in possession when
the suit was brought, and then vested.
The defendants, in order to prove an outstanding title, offered
in evidence, 1. The treaty of 1824.
2. The Act of Congress of June 30, 1834.
3. The Act of Congress of July 1, 1836.
And also offered parol testimony to prove that the northern
line of said half-breed reservation was an actually marked line,
in accordance with said plat, and called by the neighbourhood,
along and on each side of said line, the half-breed line and
thereupon prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows, to
wit
Refused.
Ist. That if the jury believe, from the evidence, that the land
described in the patent lies within the reservation for the Sac
and Fox half-breeds, then the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover under said patent, as authorized by the said act of 1st
of July, 1836.

SUPREME- COURT.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al

Given.

2d. That under the report of the recorder ofand titles,-dated
February 2d, 1816, offered by plaintiffs iiie.ydence, plaintiffs
are not entitled .to recover, unless the same has 7beel confirm4
. .
by an act of Congress.
,....Given.'

3d. That the true construction'of the act of. 29tJi of Aprj
1816, does, not confirm the plaintiffs' titlp to the landsued.for
in this aciion, if the Indin title was not then exppgished in
said land.
Given.

4th. That the treaty ofi 1824,"'with the Sa ' Fox I i an. ,
is a recognition by the United States of the Indian title to the
land m controversy at the date of said treaty,of 1824.
Refused.

5th. That if the jury believe, from the evideiice,'thdt the land -'
described in the patent lies within the reservdiffon for the&Sac
and Fox half-breeds, then.the plaintiffs are n6t entitled'to recover under said- patent.

,

'

Given.

6th. That if the jury find for the plaintiffs, arid that said
plaintiffs are entitled- to 'damages from defendints for withholding or using or injuring theikproperty, the jury:shall then set
off the value of any, permanent improvements defendants may
have made on said land, at their fair value, against-said damages.
"f'"

Refused.

7th. That the plaintiffs cafinot recover in tiis action, unless
they show conclusively that the land in conitrov~ksyis not within the Sac and Fox half-breed reservation.
Given.

8th. Instruct the jury; that, when it is proved ,that the land
claimed by Reddick's heirs was within the bounds of the map
given in evidence in this case, as a survey of the half-breed
tract, and'that it has proved that such a line does exist, and is
recognized by persons residing on -each side-of .the line as the
true north line of said tract, that no,. reputation or opinion of
the citizens residing south of said line, or north of said line,
that s~id line is incorrect, would be evidence to impeach the
correctness of the line on the map, and proved to actually exist.
Given.

I

9th. That if the jury believe that Honore Tesson-had no
marked or known -boundaries, which included the land -in-controversy, the jury must find for the defendant.
The first, fifth, and seventh of which instructions the court

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

refused to give to the jury, to which refusal and opinion of
the court the defendants, by their counsel, -except, and pray
that this their bill of exceptions may be signed, sealed, and
made a part of the record.
CHALEs MASON, Judge.-[sA.]
The defendants sued out a wfit of error, and carried the case
up to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which, on the 26th of January, 1846, affirmed the judgment of the. District Court.
The defendants in the Distrit Court, -viz. Marsh, Lee, and
Delavan, then. brought the case, by writ of- error, up to this
court.
It was argued by Mr Wood, for the plaintiffs in error, and
1r May and Mr Geyer, for the defendants.
Mr Wood made the following points I. The possession of the defendants in the original suit was
sufficient to entitle them to averdict, unless the plaintiffs Should
show a title.
II. An outstanding valid title, paramount to that of said
plaintiffs, was sufficient to protect the possession of defendants
below against the plaintiffs' title. Schauber-v. Jackson, 2
Wend. 12.
III. The title of the Indian 'half-breeds, under the act of
1834 and the treaty of 1824, was valid and complete, and being prior in time to the patent of the plaintiffs of 1839, which
issued in virtue of the act of 1836, is paramount thereto, and
ought to prevail against it. 1 Doug. (Mich.) R. 555, Hoofnagle v. Anderson, 7 Wheat. 212, 2 Peters, 263, 9 Wheat. 673,
9 Peters, 715, 716.
IV Even if, the plaintiffs below had shown a defective title
prior to the treaty of 1824, such defective-'title would not, as
against the said title under the act of 1834, be niade valid by
the plaintiffs' patent of 1839, because such patent passed only
the title of the United States then existing, more especially,
inasmuch as the act of 1836, under which it issued, reserved
rights previously acquired under treaty with any Indian tribe.
Lee v. Glover, 8 Cow 189, Mitchel v. United, States, 9 Peters,
748, Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 578.
The counsel fdr the defendants in error contended,
I. The court did not err m refusing the said prayers, because,1. They are based on a part only of the evidence. Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth, 9 Peters, 292.

228

SUPREME COURT.
Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

2. It appears on the plot, by the prayers of plaintiffs in error, and on the face of the patent, that the land in dispute had
been, by acts, of Congress, confirmed to Reddick prior to the
treaty of August, 1824.
. The patent being founded on a confirmation, the facts recited
may be considered. United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 448. A
public grant, if admitted in evidence, must be received by court
and- jury as evidence both of the facts it recites and declares
leading to the foundation of the grant, and all other facts legally inferable by either from what is so apparent on its face.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 729. See Act of March 2d,
1805, ch. 26 (2 Stat. at Large, 324); Act of April 21st, 1806,
ch. 39 (2 Stat. at Large, 391); Act of February 15th, 1811,
ch. 14 (2 Stat. at Large, 617); Act of June 13th, 1812, ch. 99,
(2 Stat. at Large, 748,) authorizing Recorder to report on claims
to land in Missouri; Reports of Recorder of November 1st,
1815, and February 2d, 1816, in favor of Reddick's claim; 3
Am. State Papers, 345; Act confirming Claims reported by Re-.
corder, April 29th, 1816, ch. 159 (3 Stat. at Large, 328).
The report of recorder adds to his approval of- Reddick's
claim "if Indian right extinguished." As to the effect of this
proviso, see Report of J.M. Clayton, Chairman 23d Congress,
2d Sess. Report, No. 31, Ho. Reps.; United States v. Fernandez et al., 10 Pet. 303; Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard,
374; Report of Solicitor of Land Office, MSS. vol., No. 75,
dated June 9, 1837.
Did not the act of April 29th, 1816, include Reddick's
claim?

It was approved by the recorder, acting as commissioner, as
a valid claim, subject only to Indian rights, on the contingency
that they are or may thereafter be extinguished. "All grants
of land by the government are to be understood as being subject to Indian rights." Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; Mitchel v. United States, 9 Peters, 711; Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8
Wheat. 574.
If,before the confirmation to Reddick, the title was only inchoate and addressed itself to the political departments of government, (see Le Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 449,) yet it was
such an equitable title as the government was bound to protect.
Mitchel pt al. v. United States, 9 Peters, 714.
Rut what was the effect of the confirmation by the act of
April 29th, 1816, if restricted by the proviso of the recorder,
to wit, "if Indian right extinguished." Did it not at least
grant the ultimate fee, which was in the United States, subject
to Indian right of possession? Could the United States after-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

229

Marsh 'et al v. Brooks et aL

wards deal with the fee, and reserve or in any way dispose. of
it? Mitchel et al. v. United States, 9 Peters, 713; Grignon v.
Astor, 2 Howard, 344.
Indians have only a right of occjipancy, and no power to dispose of the soil. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat. 543. Indians cannot sue on their aboriginal title in courts of the Unit.ed States. -Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 20..
Grants of land by the government are to be understood to
convey a title to the grantees, subject only to the Indian right
of occupancy. When that is ended by cession to the govern
ment, or.otherwise, it is to be enjoyed in full dominion by the
grantee. Ibid. ; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; Mitchel v.
United States, 9 Pet. 711; United States-v. Fernandez, 10 Pel.
304I
The act confirming BReddick's title was passed in 1816. - After this, by the treaty of August, 1824, the. Indians cede all
their title, reserving only-a small tract for the use of their halfbreeds, they holding it as "other Indian title are held." Reddick's land was located before this, and well known to the government by its metes and bounds. See additional article of
Treaty with Sac and Fox Indians, dated November 3d, 1804
(7 Stat. at Large, KY).
Was not the reservation subject, then, to his locations ? Otlerwise would it not be a fraud on the part of the United States?
The confirmation of the claim of Reddicki either by the
recorder or Congress, was a location of the land. Les Bois v.
Bramell, 4 Howard, 463.
The grant, then, by act of April 29th, 1816, is .primafaciea
good legal title, and standing alone will support an ejectment.
Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 454; Chouteau v.Eckhart, 2 Howard, 372. It is a higher evidence of title than a patent, and
is a direct grant of the fee. .Grignon v. Astor, 2 Howard, 344.
But the plaintiffs below relied upon their patent, issued 7th
February, 1839. It is the superior and conclusive evidence of
legal title. Bagneli v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436; Wilcox v.
Jackson, Ibid. 499. It is conclusive proof that the act of
granting is by authority of the United States. United States
v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 728 ; Patterson v. Winn, 5 Pet. 241. And
is evidence that every prerequisite has been performed. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 730, 731; Polk v. Wendal, 9
Cranch, 87.
It will not be presumed that the government has conveyed
the same land: twice. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691.
The court will not construe the patent as conflicting with
other rights. Ibid.
20 •
voL. v111.

230

SUP-RPEk

COUAT§
°

X-Marsh at aL v.Brooks et,,l.

The p'atentis pri faie evidence of title; and also that-any
former grant of the -sanme land ,bythe government was extinguished. Hall v. Gittings's Lessee, 2 Harr. &!Johns. 112,
This court has iepeatedly deciaed that at law no facts behind
the patent can be investigated. :Boardman. et al. v.-Legsees of
-Reed and Ford, 6 Pet: .328, 34?'; Stringer v.- Young, .3Pet.
.I.... .
- - . ..
1I
320.
But-it ought to be presumed, in'cases'of'disputes about lands
granted by g6vernm'ent, ort Indian titles, that a patent carefully
describing the lands d6es not interfere with other public'grants,
or speciaUy With Ildian reservations.
Intercours6'with the':Indians should be carried onby the
government. -'W-orcester - v. State of Georgia, 6 Peters, 315.
It is for the officers of government to say when land shall
be reserved, and what is so reserved. -Indian affairs belong to
the 'political department. The United States deal 'with Indian
titles in their political and sovereign capacity.. It is for the
land officers to decide on-acts on which a patent is to issue.
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1 ; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Pet."499'; Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 461.
Though - grants- are kubject to Indian title, yet it is for the
proper officers of government to say when such title is extinct
by sudcssio or abandonmenit, by boundary, or rejection of
claim,- and' the, lands have reverted to public fund.. United
States v. Arredondo, 6"Pet. 747, 748.
The 6fficers-of government'have determined that-the Indian
right was extinguished to Reddick's claim, if the act of April
29, 1816, had not' alreadi so determined; and, by issuing the
patent, have at least put the burden of proving the contrary
on those'"who dispute it. -United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet.
7,27, 728; Strother v.'Ludas, 12 Pet. 437; 3 State Papers ; Report of, Solikitor -of the Lzind Office, MSS. vol., No. 113, dated
September 21, 1837 ; also No. 209, dated October 30, 1838 ;
Opinion 'of AItorney-General Grundy, dated January 2, 1839,
Vol. of '" Opinions of Attorneys-General," p. 1230; Order of
gecretary Woodbury, dated February 6, 1839, to issue patent
to Reddick's heirs, *,by command of the - President without
any furtfier suspension," and order of Commissioner of Land
Office in'ursuance thereof (on the files of Land Office).
' Presumptions are in favor of -the integrity and fidelity of
public officers in fulfilling their duties. Bank of the United
States v.Dandridge, -12 -Vheht. 64; Martin v. Mott, Ibid. 19;
Buller's N. P. 298; 1 Greenleaf on Ev., § 40.
' •
If the patent is piriMcifdci6 evidence, and is'not rebutted, it
remains sufficient to maintain the title. Kelly v. Jackson, 6
Pet. 632.

JJANUARY TER M; 1850.

'231

-M arsh et a&I.v. Broosks et a1

'11. The outstanding title set up by the plaintiffs in errot in
-ihe cdif below, under the treaty and, law of June 30, 1834,
-d6e ho'f-'.necessarily negative a title in the United States at'the
.. ..
.
' . . .
date of the patent.
It mut be a clear subsisting title outstaindihg 'in,another, to
-defedt a plaintiff in ejectment, and that means iuch a title as
the stranger could recover on in ejectmehnt against either of the
contending parties., Hall v. Gittiigs's Lessee; 2 Hlarr. & Johns.
112:
' IIL The act of June, 1834, does not necessarily include in
the half-breed reservations the hind in dispute:
IV. The burden of showing that there was 'no "title in the
United States at the date of the patent, and also that the land
is within the half-breed reservation, was upon the plaintiffs in
error (defendants below). Greenleaf v. Birth,' 6 Pet. '302;
Hawkins v. Barfley, 5 Pet. 468, 469.,
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a writ of'error t6 the Supreme
'Court of Iowa. ' The-'suit originated, in a writ of right issued
by the District Court of Lee County, at the instance of the heirs
of T. F. Reddick, to recover possession of certain land§ wrongfully withheld from them, as they alleged, by the defendants,
M ash and others. The venue was -subsequently changed to
the county of Henry, where the cause was tried in September,
1843. The plaintiffs 'claimed possession, -as owners, under a
patent to their ancestor, signed by the President and "issued
from the General Land Office on the 7th of February, 1839,
which they exhibited, and also proved the premises in question
.to be covered by such patent, and in'possession of defendants.
The'defendants produced in evidence, - 1st. An act passed
by Congress on the 1st of July, 1836, relinquishing to the heirs
of T. F. Reddick the right and interest of the United States
in six hundred and forty acres, being the land in controversy;
which act contained the following' provisos: - "Provided,
nevertheless, if' said lands shall be taken by any older or better
claim, emanating from the United States, the government will
not be in any wise responsible for any remuneration: to. said
heirs; and provided, also, that should'said tract 'of land be included in any reservation heretofore made under treaty with any
Indian tribe, the said heirs be, and they hereby are, auth6rized
to locate the same quantity, in legal subdivisions, on' any-unap-.
propriated lands in said territory subject to entry at private
sale." 2d. The treaty of August 4, 1824, between the:United
States and the Sac and Fox Indians, and a plat showing the

232

SUPREME

COURT.

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.
premises in question to be within the limits of a tract reserved
by said treaty for the half-breeds belonging to the Sac and Fox
nations. 3d. The act of'June 30, 1834, relinquishing the reversionary or contingent interest of the United States in the reservation above mentioned to the. half-breeds, and authorizing
them to sell and convey the same. The defendants then requested the, court to give to the jury several instructions; the
first, fifth, and seventh of which were as follows: "1st. That if the jury believe from the evidence, that the
land described in the patent lies within the~reservation for the
Sac and Fox half-breeds, then the plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover under said patent, as authorized by the act of 1st June,
1836."
The fifth is to the same effect as the first.
"7th. That the plaintiffs cannot recover in thi§ action, unless
they show conclusively that the land in controversy is not within the Sac and Fox half-breed reservation."
The court refused to charge the jury upon the above-mentioned points as requested, and a verdict was rendered for the
plaintiffs; whereupon the case wps carried by the defendants
to the Supreme Court of Iowa, where the judgment of the District Court .was affirmed.
From the foregoing statement it appears that, by refusing to
give the first, fifth, and seventh instructions, the court below
decided that the patent obtained from the United States by
Reddick's heirs was a better title than the reservation to the
Sac and Fox half-breeds.
The patent of 1839, was, prim4facie, a conclusive title; but
by the treaty of 1824, with the Sac and Fox Indians, the land
'in dispute was admitted by the United States to lie within the
.territory ceded by the treaty; and the Indian title, such as it
was before the treaty, is reserved to the half-breeds. This Inian title consisted of the usufruct and right of occupancy and
enjoyment; and, so long as it continued, was superior to and
excluded those claiming the reserved lands by patents made
subsequent to-.the ratification of the treaty; they could not disturb the occupants under the Indian title. That an action of
ejectment could be maintained on an Indian right to occupancy
and use, is not open to question. This is the result of the
decision in Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat. 574, and was the.
question directly decided, in the case of Cornet v. Winton, 2
Yerger's Ten. Rep. 143, on the effect of reserves to individual
Indians of a mile square each, secured to heads of families by the
Cherokee treaties of 1817 and 1819., Here, however, in addition to the reserved Indian right, the act of 1834 vests the ulti-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

233

Marsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

mate title remaining to the United States in the half-breeds of
the Sac and Fox tribes; thereby giving them a perfect fee-simple, And this act of 1834, being older than the patent, must
prevail, unless the plaintiffs below can go behind their patent;
and on this assumption the controversy has been made to turn.
No evidence of title was introduced in the District Court other
than the patent itself; and its recitals are relied on to overreach
the half-breed title. In the argument here, reports found in
Congressional documents, and laws passed by Congress operating on such reports and documents, have been adduced and
insisted on as confirming Reddick's claim, long before the treaty
of 1824 was made.. The patent recites that Reddick (assignee
of -Robidoux, who was assignee of Tesson) had deposited in
the General Land Office a certificate (No. 1157) of the recorder
of land titles at St. Louis, Missouri; and that, in pursuance of
the several acts of Congress for the adjustment of titles and
claims to land, said Reddick has been confirmed in his claim
to a tract of land containing six hundred and forty acres, &c..
For the purpose of showing the consideration on which the
patent is founded, and the authority by which it issued, the recitals are indisputable on a trial at law; but standing alone,
they do not furnish sufficient evidence to establish that the title
can take an earlier date than the patent, and thereby overreach
an elder title, as that of the half-breeds. As another trial will
probably bring out a different case from the one now presented
to us, we refrain from making any further remarks on the exStraneous matters adduced on the argument.
Nor can the act of 1836, in favor of Reddick's heirs, help
the patent, it being of later date than the treaty ; and the confirming act to the half-breeds is, of 66urse, (when standing
alone,) inferior to the Indian title.
It was also insisted on the argument here, that, as it did not
appear that any half-breeds, or their heirs or assigns, were in
existence when the trial below took place, the outstanding title
relied on could not be set up by the defendants. To which it
may be answered, that it was necessary for the plaintiffs to show
themselves to be owners of the land, and to recover on the
strength of their own title; and if the Iand had been previously
granted, nothing was left to pass by the second patent, unless
there had been an escheat, or forfeiture of title to the United
States, by the first grantees ; and certainly a court of justice
could presume neither of these things to have taken place between 1834 and 1839, such being the respective dates of the
confirming act to the half-breeds, and the patent of Reddick's
heirs. The general rule is, that, where the same land has been
20 *

23i

SUTPl'1I

E

COURT.

_Wanzer v. Tapper e

l

twice granted, the- elder, patent may be set. up in ddfence by' a
trespasser,- when sued by a claimant under the younger grant;'
without inqiuiring as:to who is the actual owner bf the land at
the' time of the trial.
It'is therefore ordered-, hat th6 jfudgment be-reversed, and the
"
cause rematided for aiother trial t6 be had therein.
Order.,
-This cause came on to be heard on-- the transcript of the
of Iowa, and;
record from the Supreme Court of the -Territory
whereof, it is npw
was argued 'by counsel.: On consideratiori
here ordered and adjudged by this court,'that the judgment of'
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,'.
reversed, with costs, and 'that 'his cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded, for further proceedings to be had therein in
-'
conformity to the opinion of this court.

MOsEs WANZER, PLAINTIFF -IN ERROR, V. TULLIUS
JOHN, H. ROLLINS, UNDER TEA FIRDE OF TUPP.ER

C.

Tu t

AND

& ROLLINS.

By the statutes 'ofMississippi, the holder of an inland bill of exc'hange'is entitled to
,recover of an 'indorser the ambunt due on the bill, with interest, upon giving the
customary proof of default and notice. A protest is necessary only for-thepurpose of enabling him to recover the five per cent. damages given by the acq.

The case of Bailey v. Doziei (6 Howard, 23) confirnied.-

THis'case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court bf the lUnited Stated for the Southern District of Missis-'
sippi.
'Itwas an action brought by Wanzer upon a bill of exchange
drawn -by him upon Silverbury & Co., accepted by drawees,
and-indorsed by Tupper & Rollins to Wanzer.
The cause was tried in 'the Circuit Court in November, 1846,
when the court refused to permit the bill, although admitted to
be an inland bill of-exchange, to be given in evidence to' the
jury, because there was no valid protest thereof.
It is unnecessary to state any further facts in the case..'
It was argued in this court by Mr. Cooxe, for the plaintiff in'
error; no counsel appearing for the defendants.'
.1r.'Chiief JustieTANEY delivered the .opinion of the court.
Ift this case, th ,Circuit' Court for the Southern District of

