586

SUPREME

COURT.

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

through the instrumentality of this court.

That such a doc-

trine cannot be maintained here has in effect been decided in
previous cases ; and especially in that of Charles River Bridge
v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 539, 540, where other cases are

cited and reviewed.
For the reasons above stated, it is ordered that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Illinois be affirmed.

Mr. Justice MIcLEAN dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, and was

argued by counsel.

On consideration whereof, it is now here

ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of

the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JOSEPH J. KENNEDY, TRUSTEE

OF HENRY SHULTZ, AN
OF THE

AND HENRY SHULTZ, APPELLANTS,

v.

THE BANK OF THE STATE

THE CITY COUNCIL OF

AUGUSTA, JOHN McKINNE,

OF GEORGIA,

SAID

INSOLVENT

DEBTOR, AND FOR THE CREDITORS

HENRY SHULTZ,

AND GAZAWAY B. LAx3AR.
Some of the distinctions stated between bills of reiiew, of reviver, and supplemental
and original bills in chancery.
This court, as an appellate court, has the power to allow amendments to be made to
the record before it, although the general practice has -been to remand the case to
the Circuit Court for that purpose.
When a cause is brought before this court on a division in opinion by the judges of
the Circuit Court, the points certified only are before it. The cause should remain
on the docket of the Circuit Court, and at their discretion may be prosecuted.
If the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court be not shown in the proceedings in the case,
its judgment is erroneous, and liable to be reversed ; but it is not an absolute
nullity.
But when an amendment to the record was made by conseftt of counsel in this court,
which amendment set forth the jurisdiction, a mandate containing that amendment
ought to have prevented any subsequent objection to the jurisdiction in the Circuit Court.
A decree for a sale, made with the approbation of counsel filed in court, removes all
preceding technical objections.
Where a party interested consented to the sald of property, afterwards took the
benefit of the insolvent law, and at a subsequent period counsel representing him
filed a consent decree to complete. the sale, the trustee having taken no steps for
two years to connect himself with the proceedings in court, and then having suf- fered fifteen years more to elapse without moilng in the business, it is too late for
such trustee to object to the consent decree.
So, also, the holders of bridge bills, who had no specific lien upon a bridge, must be
considered to have lost their right to impugn the sale ps fraudulent, after so long a
lapse of time.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

587

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

TIs was an appeal from the' Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Georgia, sitting as a court of equity.
As the decision of the court turned upon some collateral
points, it is not necessary to state all the facts in the case,
which were extremely complicated. The Reporter therefore refers the reader to the opinion of the court, which was delivered
by Mr. Justice McLean, and which contains a recital of all the
facts necessary to an understanding of the points decided.
It was argued in conjunction with another case between the
same parties, involving the same principles of law, and with
nearly the same state of facts. The two cases were argued by
M r. Waddy Thompson, Mr. Butler, and 11r. Webster, for the
appellants, and, upon the part of. the appellees, by Mlr. Davis,
representing Lamar, Mr. 1iJcAllister and MVr. Johnson (Attorney-General), representing the Bank, and 3ir. Sergeant, representing the city of Augusta.
The arguments of the counsel continued for several days, and
it is therefore impossible to give a full report of them, or to do
more than merely state the points and authorities.
The points raised on behalf of the appellants were the following, as stated in the briefs of M~r. Vebster and Mr. Thompson.

On the 9th day of May, 1821, oneChristian Breibhaupt and
the said Henry Shultz filed their bill in the Circuit Court
against the Bank of the State of Georgia, praying that the
bridge across the Savannah Rivei at Augusta, and other property
therein named, might be decreed to be first liable to the redemption of the bills issued by the Bridge Company aforesaid,
and for an injunction restraining the Bank .ofGeorgia and other
creditors of the said John and Barna McKinne, as well as the
creditors of the said Bridge Company, from enforcing executions and selling the bridge and other property of the said
Bridge Company.
Amongst various interlocutory orders in said cause, was one
ordering the bridge aforesaid to be sold by two commissioners
therein named; and it was sold accordingly, and the Bank of
the State of Georgia became the purchaser. The said Henry
Shultz consented to the sale in writing; but the said John McKinne refused to give such assent.
On the 6th of May, 1830, a decree, drawn up by the consent
of counsel, was signed by the Hon. W. Johnson and J. Cuyler,
which will be found in the record.
IE is alleged by the present complainant, the assignee of Henry Shultz; that the order of sale aforesaid is not binding, in

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

so far as those whom he-represents are concerned. First, because John ]XcKinne, the joint tenant of the said Henry Shultz,
refused his consent. And secondly, that the creditors of the
Bridge Company were not parties to said suit; and that the decree of the 6th of May, 1830, presents no bar to the claim of
your orator, John W. Yarborough,* as it purports on its face to
have been made by the consent of the counsel of the said Henry Shultz, two years after he had made an assignment of all his
estate, and specifically of the bridge aforesaid, to Thomas Harrison, for the benefit of his creditors, and therefore he had no
power or authority in the premises, and also because the court
had no jurisdiction of the cause.
The bill prays that the bridge and other property of the
Bridge Company may be decreed to be first liable for the redemption of the bills issued by the said Bridge Company, and
afterwards to refund the creditors of Henry Shultz the amount,
with interest, which he paid for the redemption of said bills after his retirement from the Bridge Company.
To this bill of complaint John McKinne answers, admitting
all the material allegations of the bill. The other defendants
filed demurrers.
The complainant submits to this honorable court, that the
sale of the bridge, by the interlocutory order of the court, is
void as to him, and those whom he represents, the creditors of
Henry Shultz, who were not parties to the suit. 2d. That the
said sale was made without the consent of the said John McKinne. 3d. That the court, at the time of the said order, had
no jurisdiction of the case, as proper parties were n6t before the
court.
2. That the consent decree of the 6th of May, 1830; has no
binding efficacy on the complainant or those he represents, as
they were not parties in said suit, and that the consent of the
said Henry Shultz -was without authority, as regards the claims
of his creditors, as he had previously assigned all his interest in
the premises, under the insolvent debtor law of South Carolina,
to Thomas Harrison, Esq.; and because the court had noL jurisdiction of the case.
3. That the mortgage by John and Barna McKinne to the
Bank of Georgia was void, as violating a statute of Georgia, and
secondly, as appropriating the assets of the partnership to the
payment of the individual debts of the partners, in violation of
the general law on that subject, as well as the special terms of
this particular copartnership.
"Yarborough was the original trustee of Shultz, in whose place Kennedy was
now acting.

JANUARY TERI, 1850.

589

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

4. That if the said mortgage be valid, the defendants, never
having foreclosed, are to be regarded as mortgagees in possessior, and chargeable with rents, issues, and profits.
5. That if the court should be of opinion that, as regards the
interest of the said Henry Shultz, the sale made under the interlocutory order aforesaid be valid, it is void as to the interests
of the said John McKinne, the joint owner of said bridge.
6. That the mortgage, if a valid lien, has been more than
paid off, and the residue is subject to division amongst the creditors of Henry Shultz.
7. That a release by the Bank of Georgia to John McKinne,
one of the two joint owners of the bridge, and partners with
the Bridge Company, is, in law, a release of the said Henry
Shultz.
The following authorities will be relied on in the argument:
-3 Ves. jr. 255; 2 Kent's Com. 400; 2 Story's Equity, 304,
§§ 446-449, 463, 1039, 1040 ; Jac. Law Dict., tit. Estate; 3
Mod. 46; 2 Story's Eq. 527, § 1287, 240, § 976; 2 Treadway,
S. C. Re. 674;,3 Taunt. 976; 2 Story's Eq. 491, § 1244; Mill
on Eq. Mort. 123; Law Library, 47; 1 Story's Eq. 383, § 395;
Mill on Eq. Mort. 76, 79, 80, 81; 1 Story's Eq. 625, § 675; 2
Story's Eq. 500, § 1253; 3 Kent's Com. 65; 1 Story's Eq. 588,
§ 633; 3 Laws United States, 4S2, § 6; 10 Wheaton, 1, 20; 2
Cranch, 33; 3 Wheaton, 591; 2 Marsh. 11; 1 Bland, 20; 6
Leigh, 400; Story's Eq. § 10; 13 Peters, 691, 729; 8 Cranch,
9, 22; 2 Peters, 157, 163; 10 Peters, 449, 475; 10 Wheaton,
199; Gov. Deg. 974-976; 9 Pick. 259; Story's Eq. §§ 329,
330, 349, 380, 403, 425, 354; Mit. Eq. P1. by Jeremy, 97, 98;
7 Paige, 287, 290; Story's Eq. §§ 466, 499, 500, 503, 505,
507, 508, 513, 519, 521, 526; Barton's Suits in Equity, 131; 1
Peters, 329; 2 Term Rep. 282; 4 Ves. jr. 396; 3 Atk. 809,
811 ; 5 Ves. jr. 3 ;..2 Stat. at Large, 159 and note ; Story's Eq.
Pl. 443; 1 Ves. & Beames, 536; 19 Yes. 184; 2 Story's Eq. Jur.
1520 and note; 1 Peters, 329; 10 ib. 480; 11 Wheaton, 1.
M r. Davis contended, on behalf of Lamar, that the 4Bank of
the State of Georgia was a purchaser at a judicial sale, under a
decree of a court having jurisdiction of the cause, the parties,
and the subject-matter, -the sale being unimpeached for either
fraud or irregularity, and so entitled to the bridge, and to convey it to Lamar.
To this it is replied, in substance, that the decree was erroneous, considered as pronounced in adversum.
Lamar rejoins, I. That the decree of the 21st of December, 1821, was by
VOL. VIII.

50

590

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

consent of all parties in interest, - Shultz and McKinne, joint
owners and partners, the Bank as mortgagee, and Breithaupt
and others, creditors of said Shultz; and, 1. That they and all claiming under them are estopped, by
such consent, to insist on error in the decree. Webb v. Webb,
3 Swanst. 658; Bradish v. Gee, Ambler, 229; 2 Daniell's Oh.
Pr. 617; Downing v. Cage, Eq. Gas. Abr. 165, § 4; Toder v.
Sansam, 1 Bro. P. 0. 469, 473, 476; Harrison v. Rumsey, 2 Yes.
sen. 488; Wall v. Bushby, 1 Bro. Ch. 484, 485, 489; Norcot v.
Norcot, 7 Vin. Abr. 398 ; Bernal v. Donegal, 3 Dow. P. C. 133;
Mole v. Smith, 1 Jac. & Walk. 665.
,2. That there is no sufficient averment that McKinne did
not consent to the decree of December, 1821, but only that he
never consented to, or executed any power or authority to the
commissioners to make said sale, or to execute any title to the
purchaser; and that, after consent to the decree, his objection
could not stop the sale, nor was a power of attorney requisite.
Bradish v. Gee, Ambl. 229; Webb v. Webb, 3 Swanst. 658.
3. The language of the bill, on the contrary, imports an express averment that the decree was in fact made "by consent
of the parties, complainants and defendants."
4. Were there a direct denial, still a party cannot controvert
the consent recited in the decree, - unless, perhaps, for fraud in
its insertion. Downing v. Cage, Eq. Gas. Abr. 165, § 4; Norcot v. Norcot, 7 Vin. Abr. 398; Mole v. Smith, 1 Jac. & Walk.
665; Biddle v. Watkins, 1 Pet. 686.
5. A fortiori,not as against a purchaser under the decree,
such party never having objected to the decree or sale, nor
moved to have the "consent" stricken out, though before the
court always, after twenty-four years from the decree of sale,
and fifteen from its formal ratification and final decree. Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Pet. 449, 473; McKnight v.
Taylor, 1 How. 161; Lupton v. Janney, 13 Pet. 385.
6. McKinne not seeking as complainant the avoidance of
the decree and sale on that ground, Shultz cannot avail himself of the error, as against McKinne, to enable him to avoid
his own consent and acts. Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs, 10
Wheat. 146; 6 Cond. R. 44, 47; Whiting v. Bank of United
States, 13 Pet. 6.
II. If the denial be adequate and allowable in itself, and
available for Shultz, still,1. No error, or omission, or false recital, or want of proof, or
other error behind or on the face of the decree, the court having jurisdiction, can affect a purchaser under it. Simmes &
Wise v. Slacum, 3 Cranch, 300; 1 Cond. R. 539, 541; Thomp-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

591

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

son v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157, 167, 168, 169 ; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 729; Bank of United States v. Bank of Washington, 6 Pet. 8, 16; Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Pet.
449, 472, 478; Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn, 2 How. 43, 58; Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319, 340-343; 10 Wheat. 192,
199; 6 Cranch, 267.
2. The denial of the consent is such,- for consent is in lieu
of evidence or law authorizing such a decree; and it is to deny
a fact recited as the foundation of the decree; and if it be as
recited,- a sufficient foundation for it.
3. The inference, that McKinne's refusal avoided the whole
sale, impeaches the judgment of the court, ordering and confirming the sale in spite of such want of consent; i. e. the court
erred in decreeing, upon consent of one, the sale of the whole,
or of any part of the bridge.
4. The allegation of the invalidity of the mortgage to the
bank is likewise controverting Ilie opinion of the court, that it
was valid, so far as to authorize a sale, or it is entirely irrelevant.
So none of them avail, to impeach the title of the bank or of
Lamar. 2 How. 43, 58; 2 Pet. 168; 10 Pet. 472, 473; Bennett v. Hamill, 2 Sch. & Lef. 577, 578.
The denial, of the consent recited does not show the decrees
to be nullities; the consent is not the decree, but only waiver
of objection to it; the decree is the act of the court,- valid as
a decree on the subject-matter till reversed, in spite of the
want of consent. So denial of consent removes that estoppel,
only against showing errors in the decree.
III. The absence of McKinne's consent would not avoid
the sale of the bridge.
1. (a) The parties had a chattel interest, an estate for years
only, in the franchise.
(b) It was partnership property; and therefore one partner
could dispose of the whole interest, so as to bind his copartner. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289; 2 Cond. R. 260-263;
Anderson v. Tompkins, 1 Brock. 456; Robinson v. Crowder,
4 McCord, L. R. 519.
(c) McKinne being party to the suit with his copartner, and
having never moved to avoid the sale, has, by his acquiescence
and knowledge, ratified his partner's act. Storrs v. Barker, 6
Johns. Ch. 166, 169, 172; Wendell v. Van Rensselaer, 1 ib.
354.
(d) NIcKinne is barred by lapse of time from avoiding the
sale for want of his consent ; and so are Shultz and his assignee,
when relying on McKinne's refusal. '

SUPREME

COURT.

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

2. The supposed pledge of the bridge is a legal nullity;
for,
(a) It was, if any thing, a private understanding merely of
the partners, that this fund should remain as security for the
bills, which did not affect their power of disposal, as to third
parties. Hawker v. Bourne, 8 Mees. & Wels. 710.
(b) If publicly notified, it gave no lien on th.e bridge passing
with the notes into each holder's hands.
(c) There is no direct averment of any legal pledge 'creating
a lien on the bridge for holders of bridge bills, before other
social creditors; nor of any disposition of, or agreement with
reference to, the bridge, restraining the power of both or of
either to sell it,- even were there one as to the application of
its proceeds.
(d) If such pledge avoided Shultz's consent and sale of his
interest, it must likewise avoid his assignment of his share under the South Carolina insolvent laws; -and
so the trustee
has no interest in the suit.
IV. The sale, being regular, passed the whole interest of
Shultz in the property; and, 1. Its confirmation binds McKinne also.
(a) It was virtually confirmed by payment and acceptance
of the purchase-money, and possession of the bridge ; all which
were acquiesced in.
(b) By- express decree.
(c) Both Shultz and McKinne are estopped from alleging
error by consent to the decree. (See cases cited above.)
(d) There is no suggestion that the counsel of " defendants"
assenting thereto did not then represent McKinne.
(e) Even as to Shultz, it is not averred that his solicitor had
ceased to bd such; but only that le by his consent could not
bind the fund nor the interests of the creditors.
2. This decree is not shown to be void by any sufficient
averment; for, (a) Being by consent, without dispute, no error can be alleged against it other than such as shall go to to the jurisdiction of the court which gave it.
(b) This decree was rendered by the Circuit Court in which
the suit was brought; and it is not averred that it had not
jurisdiction.
(c) The denial of jurisdiction in the Supreme Court does not
involve the denial of that of the Circuit Court, nor show that
its decree is void; for on certificate of division, the points certified alone are before the Supreme Court; the cause remains
below, and may be proceeded in there. 2 Stat. at Large, p.

JANUARY TERIM, 1850.

593

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

159, 6; Ogle v. Lee, 2 Cranch, 33; Harris v. Elliot, 10 Pet.
25, 56; Davis v. Braden, 10 Pet. 286, 289; Adams & Co. v.
Jones, 2 Pet. 207, 213, 214; White v. Turk, 12 Pet. 239,240;
United States v. Baily, 9 Pet. 267, 273, 274; Perkins v. Hart,
l1 Wheat. 237; Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; United
States v. Briggs, 5 How. 208.
Therefore, if the Supreme Court bad jurisdiction, the cause
was regularly remanded, and it was competent for the Circuit
Court to render any decree it saw fit. If the Supreme Court
had not jurisdiction, the cause remained before the Circuit
Court, with like power of proceeding to decree.
(d) But the facts averred do not show that the Supreme
Court had not jurisdiction at January term, 1830; for though
its opinion was ordered to be certified, it had not been done;
and till it had been done, it was competent for counsel to ask
for its reinstatement by consent.
It was also within their power to agree to, and of the court
to allow, an amendment of the pleadings, not stating new
points, but obviating obstacles to the decision of those certified.
Bank of Kentucky v. Ashley, 2 Pet. 327, 328, 330; Woodward
v. Brown and Wife, 3 How. 1, 2; Union Bank of Georgetown
v. Geary, 5 Pet. 99, 111, 113; Holker v. Parker, 7 Cranch,
436, 456; Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738;
Jackson v. Stewart, 6 Johns. 34, 37, 296, 300; R-enck v. Todhunter, 7 Har. & Johns. 275, 278.
The order of January term, 1828, was predicated on "the
present state of the pleadings," and contemplated an amendment; and it could as well be allowed before the Supreme
as the Circuit Court. Matheson's Adrm. v. Grant's Adm., 2
How. 263, 281; Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206.
(e) The Supreme Court having assumed jurisdiction, allowed
the reinstatement, and certified the cause below for further proceedings, it is not competent for any party or court to impeach its jurisdiction. Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10
Pet. 474; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, I Whfeat. 104; Ex parte
Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 492; Washington Bridge Co.
-v. Stewart et al., 3 How. 413, 424, 426; Skillern's Exec. v.
May's Exec. 6 Cranch, 267.
If, then, the decree of 1830 be not void, but valid as to all
parties to it, then, --

1.
2.
from
3.

McKinne is expressly bound by it.
It ratifies the sale, and thus removes all difficulty arising
McKinne's previous supposed dissent; and,
Thus Shultz being bound by the sale, and McKinne by
50*

594

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

the ratification, the whole interest in the bridge is concluded by
consunt decrees.
V. The confirmation by final decree was not vitiated by
failure to bring Shultz's assignee before the court; for
1. The decree for sale was final and conclusive oil Shultz's
whole interest. Ray v. Law, 3 Cranch, 179 ; Whiting v. Bank
of United States, 13 Pet. 6, 15.
2. The sale was merely execution of the decree, and confirmation was the right of the purchaser, and of course, in the
absence of cause shown.
3. No cause is shown in this record, no irregularity or fraud,
nor any grievance to the complainants' assignee.
And the confirmation pending the abatement or defectiveness
of the suit by reason of the assignment and the absence of the
assignee, is not error for which a bill of review will lie, unless
the sale be impeached. Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs, 10 Wheat.
146; Whiting v. Bank of United States, 13 Peters, 15, 16.
4. There were always parties before the court competent to
act; for by the assignment the suit was not abated but defective, and could be proceeded with. if neither party required the
assignee to be brofight before the court and he did not come
in. Story's Eq. P1. § 328; Sedgwick v. Cleaveland, 7 Paige,
287, 289, 290, 291, 292; Massey v. Gillelan, 1 Paige, 644.
Shultz was still a necessary and proper party, and could for
his own interest consent to the reinstatement and the amendment, - especially if assignee declined or neglected to proceed
with the suit. Sedgwiik v. Cleaveland, 7 Paige, 290; Mitf.
Eq. P. by Jer. 65, note t.
This assignment being out of the State where the suit was
pending, if considered as made under a tribunal and law operating in invitum, cannot operate on the fund in the hands of the
Circuit Court, extraterritorially. Harrison v. S terry, 5 Granch,
289; Blane v. Drummond, 1 Brock. 62.
If voluntary, the assignee is bound by all proceedings before
he is made party. Story's Eq. Pl. §-351; Mitf. Eq. P1. by
Jer. 73, 74.
VI. This is a bill of review to vacate a decree, and to have
the benefit of the proceedings.
It is therefore barred by -lapse of more than five years from
the final decree, whether the decree of December, 1821, or
May, 1822, or May, 1S30. Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs, 10
Wheat. 146; Whiting v. Bank of United States, 13 Peters,
13, 15.
And treating the decree of December, 1821, and May, 1822,
as final, by lapse of twenty years and laches and negligence.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

595

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

VII. But, in fact, it appears that Lamar is not the purchaser
of any thing that ever was the property of-the complainants.
The right claimed was a franchise to have a toll-bridge over
a navigable river, held by acts of the Legislatures of South Carolina and Georgia, for a limited time, which had expired when
Lamar purchased the bridge, which then was held under a new
grant. Laws of Georgia, for 1833, p. 40, 41, tit. Bridges; 9
Statutes of South Carolina, 589, § 24; 471, 472; § 53 ; Act
of Georgia, December 23, 1840.
The record of the original cause, being in the Supreme
Court, under the certificate of division, and being referred to
in the bill, may be inspected. Bank of United States v. White,
4.
8 Pet. 262, 268.
. The franchise in this case was an incorloreal hereditament
granted for a term of years to the grantees and their heirs, and
could only exist by virtue of the acts of Assembly, and ceased
on the expiration of the time limited. 2 B1. Com. 37, 39; 2
Inst. 220; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 595; People v.
Thompson, 21 Wenq. 235, 249, 250; 23 Wend. 537, 554, 564,
569.
That this franchise and the statute creating it are public in
their nature. 9 Bac. Abr. 231, 232; 21 Wend. 235, 249, 250;
15 Johns. 387, 389; Gresley on Eq. Ev. 293, 294; 1 Starkie
on Ev. 196.
The points made by Mr. McAllister and Mr. Johnson were
the following: 1st. That the present bill of revivor and supplement has not
been exhibited in accordance with the practice and usages of
courts of equity, and on that ground the demurrer must be sustained. Story's Eq. Pl. § 643; 1 Daniell's Chan. Prac. 649 ;
Wortley v. Birkhead, 3 Atk. 809, 811; Fletcher v. Tollett,.5
Yes. 3.
2d. That the present bill was filed without leave of the
court and notice to the adverse party, on the, erroneous supposition that the original suit, the revival of which is the object
of the present bill, had abated, whereas, by complainants? own
showing, it had only become defective, and, in such case, the
court had no jurisdiction of the bill without previous leave
given to file it, and due notice to the opposite party of the intention to file such bill, in compliance with the 57th Rule of
Practice of the courts of equity of the United. States. .1
Howard, xviii.; 17 Law Library, 112; Story's Eq.TPl. § 383,.
note 3; 1 Daniell's Ch. Prac. 75; Sharp v. Hullett, 2 Sim. &
Stu. 496; Pendleton v. Fay, 3 Paigd's Ch. R. 206; Whitney

596

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

v. Bank of United States, 13 Peters, 13; 3 Daniell's Ch. Prac.
1733, 1737; 2 Yes. sen. 571, 577; Dexter v. Dexter, 4 Mason,
304; Story's Eq. P1. §§ 466, i27, 528, "443; 1 Daniell's Ch.
Prac. 449, 625, 655 ; 4 Paige's Ch. R. 639.
3d. 'hat where two complainants exhibit their bill, both
must have an interest in the subject-matter of dispute, or else
the demurrer will be sustained. Story's Eq. P1. § 232, 509,
544; 1 Daniell's Ch. Prac. 347, 348, 361, 362, 617; The King
of Spain v. Machado, 4 Russ. 225, 242; Abrahams v. Plestoro,
3 Wend. 546.
4th. That, by their own showing, neither of the complainants in this case had such an interest as would authorize the
filing of the present bill.
1. As to Henry Shultz. His interest is concluded by the
'decree of 8th May, 1830, entered into by consent of his attorney, who was the attorney of record. Union Bank of
Georgetown v. Geary, 5 Peters, 112, 113; Bradish v. Gee, Ambler, 229; 5 N. Hamp. 393; 4 Munroe, 377; 2 N. Hamp. 520;
1 H. Black. 21; 17 Johns. 461; 16 Mass. 396; 7 Cowen, 744.
2. That against this consent decree, no error can be alleged
by him. Harrison v. Rumsey, 2 Yes. sen. 488; Monell v.
Lawrence, 12 Johns. 534; Webb v. Webb, 3 Swanst. 658;
Brown's Parl. Cas. 244; 2 Daniell's Ch. Prac. 1179, 1180.
3. That he is concluded, by his acquiescence in this*decree,
from its date to 9th May, 1845, when present bill was filed.
4. That he is concluded by his letters of attorney to Walker
and Fitzsimmons, authorizing them to sell the Augusta Bridge,
his consent to such sale, its sale under a power from him, and
the subsequent confirmation of said sale by the consent decree.
5. That present bill does not allege that Shultz is not concluded by said decree, but simply affirms that all his interest
in the subject-matter had passed out of him, prior to the consent given to said decree by the solicitor of him, the said
Henry Shultz, and that therefore said decree could not bind
his (the said Shultz's) creditors and assignees.
Thus much for Shultz.
5th. As to the other complainant, Johrn W. Yarborough, he
has no interest., ;
1. He was not the assignee of Shultz, under the insolvent
law of South Carolina. By the allegations of the bill, it appears he was merely a trustee, appointed by a court of equity
in that State to distribute the funds in that court belonging to
an insolvent party. Such court did not, and could not, assign
to the trustee the right to sue for money at the time in the
registry of a foreign tribunal, nor could such appointment (if it

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

597

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

be deemed that the bridge was unsold at the time) pass real
estate situate in Georgia. James's Dig. Laws S.C. 121; 2
Hill, S. C. 468.
2. Admitting, ex gratia,that Yarborough was assignee, duly
appointed by an insolvent court, the assignment constituting
him such assignee was in invitum in the State of South Carolina, and it could not on that ground operate a transfer of funds
in the registry of the court of Georgia. Such assignment was
not only in invitim, but was the creature of a local law of
South Carolina, and could have no extraterritorial operation
to pass property in Georgia. The general right of a foreign
assignee to sue may be admitted; but it will be contended,
.that right is based upon national comity, and is admitted
only when neither the State in which he seeks to sue, nor her
citizens, would suffer injury from the application of the foreign law; that the consent decree was in the nature of a settlement between debtor and a creditor without notice of change
of interest, and the application of a foreign law, to the detriment
of the latter, would be as unjust as it would were it permitted
by its application to cut out a domestic creditor in favor of a foreign assignee. Story's Eq. P1. § 379; Sugden on Vendors, 460,
537; Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 40; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 406;
Calvert's Equity, 102 ; Bishop of Winchester v. Payne, 11 Yes.
194, 197; 2 Yes. & Beames, 199, 205; Sugden on Vendors,
538; 3 Atk. 392; Bald. 0. C. 45, 296; 1 Wendell's Black. 441,
note; Fenwick v. Sears, 1 Cranch, 259; Dixon's Ex. 1. Ramsay, 3 Cranch, 319; 1 Kirby, 313; 6 Binney, 353; lHar. &
MeHen. 236; 2 Hayw. 24; 20 Johns. 227; 3 Wend. 538; 2
Kent's Com., Lee. 37,*pp. 40, 46, 407, 408 (2d ed.); 1 Mill's
Cond. Rep. S. C. 283; 4 McCord, 519, 367; 2 Hill, S. C. 601 ;
5 Cranch, 302; 12 Wheaton, 213, 356; 5 Howard, 295; 1
Brock. 203, 211; 9 Johns. 64.
Thus much for the interest of Yarborough.
6th. It will be contended that John W. Yarborough must be
a privy or a stranger to Henry Shultz. If the former, he is
bound by the letter of attorney of Shultz to Walker and Fitzsimmons, ~his conent to the sale of the bridge and all his
previous acts, - in a word, if Yarborough was a privy, he comes
in pendente lite, and must come in pro bono et malo. On the
other hand, if Yarborough be a stranger, he is clearly not entitled to revive the proceedings of another for his own benefit.
Should it be urged again, as it was in the court below, that
all that was done by Shultz was done coram non judice, and
void, we shall answer, -1. If the proceedings were void, (which is by no means ad-

SUPREME. COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

mitted,) what was done by Shultz was good as matter of contract, having received his assent.
2. If the proceedings were void, how comes it complainants seek to revive a nullity?

3. We shall contend that the proceedings were not void, and
that the decree cannot be impeached in the manner attempted
by the present bill.
7th. We shall argue that the assignee (the only one appointed by the insolvent court) having disclaimed, Shultz, in
whom the legal title was, became by implication the trustee
of his creditors, and thus all parties were before the court at
the time the decree was rendered. Tunno v. Edwards, 2 Cond.
Rep. S. C. 674 (Treadway's ed.).
8th. If none of foregoing grounds be sustained by the appellate tribunal, the bill to which demurrer has been filed will be
viewed in the attitude it professes on its face to hold, - that
of a bill of revivor and supplement, - and it will be contended
that, the object of the bill being to revive a portion of the proceedings and to set aside the decree, the demurrer must be sustained, such not being the office of a bill of revivor and supplement. Story's Eq. P1. % 257, 333, 344, 354, 377, 383,
386, 617; Pendleton v. Fay, 3 Paige's Ch. R. 204, 206; 3 Daniell's Oh. Prac. 1739.
9th. It will be contended that the present bill is in truth a bill
of revivor and supplement, in nature of a bill of review; but as
such it cannot be sustained, because such bill can only be filed
within five years after decree rendered, for error of law apparent on the face of the decree, or with leave of the court
upon affidavit of new facts recently 'discovered. Story's Eq.
P1. 4% 40', 405, 407, 409, 412, 417; Webb v. Pell, 3 Paige's
Oh. R. 368; Whiting v. Bank of United States, 13 Peters, 6;
Dexter v. Arnold, 5 Mason, 308; 10 Wheat. 146; Story's Eq.
P1. 4 426; Mussell v. Morgan, 3 Bro. Oh. R. 79; Style v. Martin, 1 Ch. Cases, 151; Monell v. Lawrence, 12 Johns. 535;
Kennedy v. Daly, 1 Sch. & Lef. 355, 374.
10th. It will be argued that the demm'ger must be sustained
by reason of the decree of May, 1830, the whole case being
res adjudicata. That there was no error in said decree or the
proceedings on which it was founded, which" could have the
effect to impeach its validity.
That admitting there was error, it was merely one of pleading, which did not vacate the decree, and giving to it the fullest
effect, it could only render the decree voidable, to be set aside
on appeal. Story's P1. 44 10, 638; 2 Smith's Leading Cases,
440; 1 Bibb, 262; 2 Howard, 497; Breese, 31; Coxe, 31, 70;

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

599

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

3 McCord, 280; Case of the Blaireau, 2 Cranch, 203; Jackson
v. Ashton, 10 Peters, 480; Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy, 5
Cranch, 173; Skillen's Ex'rs v. May's Ex'rs, 6 Cranch, 267;
McCormick v. Sullivan, 10 Wheat. 199; Case of Tobias Watkins, 3 Peters, 203; Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart et al.,
3 Howard, 413; Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Wheat.
473; 6 Howard, 39; Chancellor Harper's- opinion in Yarborough, Trustee, and Shultz, v. Bank of the State of Georgia
and others, MS.; Ex parte Bradshaw, 7 Peters, 647. That,
so far from being a nullity, the decree placed the Bank of the
State of Georgia, and those claiming under them, in the attitude of bond fide purchasers for a valuable consideration at a
judicial sale, and that in favor of them the maxim of omnia
presumuntur rite acta will apply. Bennett v. Hamill, 2 Sch.
& Lef. 566; Lloyd v. Johnes, 9 Yes. 37; Denning v. Smith, 3
Johns. Ch. 344.
Lastly, it will be argued that, upon the ground of a general
want of equity on the part of complainants, -the demurrer must
be sustained, and the decision of the court affirmed. Megham
v. Mills, 9 Johns. 64; 4 Yes. 387; 16 ib. 467; 18 ib. 425; 1
Kelly, (Geo.) 193; Ex parte Ruffin, 6 Yes. 119; Ex parte
Williams, 11 Yes. 3; 2 Story's Eq. Jur. 736; Elmendorf v.
Taylor, 10 Wheat.. 168; Foster v. Hodgson, 19 Yes. 185;
Gregory v. Gregory, Coop. 201.
Mr. Sergeant, for the city of Augusta, made the following
points: -

I. That the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States,
made in the year 1830, is final and conclusive, and cannot be
appealed from, reviewed, or ,set aside, nor questioned; and this
appears upon the complainants' bill. No court of equity, therefore, can maintain such a bill.
The principle thus stated is so familiar and settled, that no
authority is necessary for it. One case, however, may be referred to, because the decision was between the same parties,
on the very same points, upon full hearing, by a court entitled
to the peculiar respeci of these parties complainants, being the
highest court of the State of South Carolina, of which State
both of the complainants are citizens, of -whose laws it is the
highest evidence. Yarborough and others v. The Bank of the
State of Georgia and others, Chancellor Harper's opinion, p.
113. affirmed in the Equity Court of Appeals. at Columbia, p.
120. The grounds of the affirmance sufficiently appear in the
assignment of errors, pp. 118, 119.
II. It is argued in the bill, that Yarborough was not a party.

600

SUPREME

COURT.

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

Referring only to the statement in the complainants' bill, which
-is
open on the demurrer, the first remark to be made upon it is,
that Yarborough and Shultz are joint complainants, making a
joint statement, and uniting in one prayer for relief If Yarborough really had any equity of his own, and Shultz only the
contrary of equity, by whatever name called, it would not follow, it may be admitted, that he would not have a right to sue
out an original bill, according to his equity. It may be"admitted, further, that he might have a right to make Shultz a party
defendant. But if they unite in one right, it must be obvious
that the want of equity of the one must be available against
both, and is demurrable. See Makepeace v. Haythorne, 4 Russ.
244; Redesd. 283, note 2.
There is another remark to be made. In the original bill,
Shultz and one Breithaupt were complainants, and they proceeded together as joint complainants, throughout all the stages
of the case, including the final decree. Breithaupt acquiesces
in the decree, and, no doubt, had the benefit of it. He separates from Shultz, and is not a complainant here. Thus, then,
in this bill, which professes to be in the nature of a bill of revivor, and supplemental bill, one of the original complainants
is laid aside or -retires, and a new complainant is brought in
-and made a'party. This is somewhat extraordinary.
But, further, in the bill there is a wani of equity, in two
essential particulars. The complainants nowhere deny that
Yarborough knew of the pendency of the case in the Circuit
Court of the -United States for the State of Georgia. Shultz
'does not deny that Yarborough knew of it. In point of fact,
it is yery plain that he did know. In point of equity it -was
his duty to know, and in duty Shultz was bound to inform
him;. Nothing but a clear and positive denial could be admissible, and that would hardly be credible. Without such an
avermient,'it becomes a fact in this case, that Yarborough did
know. That Shultz did know, it is needless to say. If, with
this knowledge, Yarborough stood by, and suffered Shultz to
proceedwith the suit, until a final decree-was made, and years
after, what- pretence. of equity can he "have? They do aver,
both of them, that the bridge property and rights became vested in Yarborough '(which, by the by, is matter of law as to
which the highest- judicial authority in South Carolina has pronounced them to be wrong), and they also aver, that no act
or consent of Yarborough or of Shultz, could impair tie right.
But they nowhere aver that there was no such act or consent,
as a fact, nor that Shultz did not act under the authority and
with the knowledge, consent, and approbation of Yarborough.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

601

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

They attempt, also, to bring in question the authority of the
solicitor who acted for the complainants; which is a question
not inquirable into here. If it were, it is only necessary to
say, that the decree went down to the Circuit Court, was entered there, and the money raised from the sale of the mortgaged property distibuted under it, without objection then, or
for fifteen years afterwards, when, for the first time, Mr. Yarborough comes in with Mr. Shultz. If Mr. Yarborough thus
neglected his duty, the creditors (if there be any) have their
remedy against him for his misconduct and neglect.
But is it true, that- Mr. Yarborough, under the insolvent law
of South Carolina, acquired such a right as is here insisted
upon? What the date of the assignment ,to him was is not
stated in the bill ; -but it appears in the exhibits to have been
on the 18th of December, 1830. The complainants allege that
it related back to the 13th of October, 1828. Whether it did
so or not is for the present purpose immaterial. The operation of the assignment upon real estate and franchises within-'
the State of Georgia, and then, at the instance of the insolvent
himself, in the custody of a court in the district of Georgia,
and under the actual exercise of jurisdiction by such court, -is
it such in law that if the assignee be not made a party, the
suit must abate or the jurisdiction be rendered inoperative ?
To establish it would require that
This is the question.
South Carolina had attempted such extraterritorial legislation,
and the next, that Georgia submitted and agreed to it; but
South Carolina did not, and does not so interpret her legisThis has
lation, nor suffer her citizens so to interpret it.
been distinctly decided by the highest court of South Carolina. Chancellor Harper's 9pinion, 116. This is conclusive
authority. It is unnecessary to cite others.
The fact of the bridge being partly in each State, as to its
effect upon the jurisdiction, may be considered as decided by
the same case.
But supposing the last objection out of the way, would an
insolvent assignment operate in such a suit? It is not meantto inquire whether the assignee, upon his own application,
made in due time, might be permitted in equity to become
a party, or at all events to give notice of his right in some
way upon the record. At law, he may have a suit marked to
his use. But bankruptcy does not abatd a suit, at law or in
equity. 1 Cook's Bankrupt Law, 558, 560. The suit goes on.
If the complainant become a bankrupt, his assignee may come
in by supplemental bill. It depends upon himself whether he
will or not. In either case, the suit goes on. He cannot, file
51
voL. V111.

602

SUPREME

COURT.

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

a bill of revivor. Neither was it the business of the defendant to require or compel him to come in. It was the business
and duty, therefore, of Mr. Yarborough himself, to come in. If
he neglected it, t6 the prejudice of his cestui que trusts, they
must sue him. But he was not a necessary party. Nor is it
necessary that he should state the bankruptcy, (Redesd. 282,
note n,) even in a case then pending. It is not an abatement.
'Cooper's Equity Pleadings, 76, 77, and note.
III. There is another want of equity in the bill, believdd to
be decisive in itself, against both the .complainants. In such a
bill, the .complainants must state their whole equity, negatively
as well as affirmatively. They must deny all such things,
within their own knowledge, as take away any seeming equity,
-not argumentatively, or by inference, but distinctly and positively, as matters of fact. The bridge property was sold, by
order of the court, and with the consent of parties, and converted into personalty. The sale itself, and its effects, will
presently be considered more particularly, under another head.
The objection now offered is this, - that neither of these complainants denies the receipt of part or parts of the consideration, - and neither of them avers, that it did not go to the
benefit of the creditors. If it did, they can have no equity.
IV. So far, the answers in law upon the demurrer apply to
the whole case. There are two remaining, peculiar to the city
of Augusta, which are to be considered, and each in itself decisive.
First. It appears from the present bill, that the Bank of
Georgia instituted a suit upon the mortgage in.the State court
of Georgia, which was so proceeded in, that there was a decree
of foreclosure and sale, and a sale was about to be made under
it. In this state of things, the suit in the State court being
finally ended, including, of course, a decision upon the validity
of the mortgage, Breithaupt and Shultz filed their bill on the
equity side of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Georgia, praying an injunction in the mortgage case,
and certain other cases, and the assumption of jurisdiction in
the whole matter. On the 13th day of June, 1821, an injunction was ordered "to stay the sale of said bridge, until the further order of the Circuit Court of the United States should be
had thereon." This injunction was granted to the complainants, who, taking the benefit, were bound by the terms. On
the 21st of December, 1821, "with the consent of the parties,
complainants and defendants," the Circuit Court appointed
Freeman Walker and Christopher Fitzsimmons commissioners
to make a-sale of the bridge and appurtenances as mortgaged

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

603

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

to the bank, and required the parties to execute powers of attorney to the commissioners. The complainants executed
powers of attorney. Colonel McKinne, who was a defendant,
refused. This being reported, the court, on the 13th of May,
1822, " by consent of complainants," ordered a sale. On the
18th of November, 1822, a sale was made, returned, the money
brought into court, and the sale confirmed by the court, without exception. At this sale, the Bank of Georgia became the
purchaser. The Bank of Georgia, in 1838, sold to Gazaway
B. Lamar, for a full and valable consideration; and in 1840,
Lamar, for a full and valuable consideration, sold to the city
of Augusta. By the final decree, which was a consent decree,
the whole of the proceeds were distributed according to the
agreement of parties filed on record.
Thus, then, it appears that the title of the city of Angusta
is derived directly from the sale of the 28th of November,
1822, and gives them all the right which was acquired by the
Bank of Georgia, under that sale. Now, this was long before
Yarborough acquired any right, even if his assignment could be
shown to relate back to the alleged assignment to Harrison,
which the complainants state to have been on the 13th of October, 1828. Up to the sale, and six years after, the whole interest was in Shultz alone, and there was no such being in existence as Yarborough, assignee. The sale was, therefore, good.
It has been already shown that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, the alleged defect in the bill being no defect at all.
The sale, therefore, is a sale by the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, regularly conducted, confirmed by the court
without objection, and the proceeds brought into court, and afterwards distributed by a decree of the court. Can it be necessary, or would it be respectful to the court, to argue that the
purchaser at such a sale is protected by the law? . There was
no equity of redemption remaining; the whole was sold.
There was nothing to come to Yarborough, or any body else,
by assignment from Shultz.
But suppose there was a want of jurisdiction. It is not necessary to remind the court that that is only error, and even a
reversal for error would not affect the title of a purchaser.
Neither is it necessary, to say what a singular equity it would
be which was founded on his own defect in his own pleadings,
especially after so great a lapse of time. The law is well settled. It is a general rule, "that the purchaser shall not lose
the benefit of his purchase by any irregularity of the proceedings in a cause." Sugden (5th ed.), 46. All that the pprchaser is bound to see is, that, as far as appears upon the face of the

•604

6UPREME COURT.
Kennedy et aL v. Georgia State Bank et al.

proceedings, there is no fraud in obtaining the decree. It is not
pretended here, that there was any fraud. The complainants
do not allege that there was. There is no pretence of that
kind set up.
Secondly. If the want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court,
for the reason alleged, were made out, (as it is not,) still Shultz,
and those claiming under him, would be estopped in equity
from disputing the title derived from the sale. Yarborough, as
has been seen, derives from Shultz, by an assignment not
claimed to be earlier than six years after the sale, and is affected
by all that was previously done precisely as Shultz was. He
took,. subject to whatever equity or right there was then existing.
V. The complainants attempt in their bill to say something
about'notice. They do not say that the Bdnk of Georgia had
any notice. So far, they must admit the title of the Bank of
Georgia 'to be, on this ground, unassailable. The title of the
Bank, they admit, was conveyed to Mr. Lamar, and by him to
the City of Augusta. The Bank of Georgia does not dispute
it. One is at a loss to conceive whence and how these complainants get any right to inquire int; the consideration. If
there were a defect in the title of. the bank,.the question of
consideration and notice might arise, -but not here. If the
title of the bank was good, so was the title of Mr. Lamar, and
so is the title of the city of Augusta. The saying about notice (for it cannot be called an averment) is altogether defective and insufficient, for want of explicitness and intelligible
.particularity.
VI. There is still a further want of equity, or, more precisely
speaking, a negative of equity, showing that, at the time of this
suit instituted, the complainants had no right at all. The right
they had was derived from legislative acts of the State of
Georgia, bpth limited in time. The time expired, and the respective Legislatures, in the year 1840, granted the property and
privileges to the city of Augusta. The construction of this in
equity has been determined in South Carolina, in the case before referred to. Chancellor Harper's opinion, p- 114. This
appears in the complainant's bill.
VII. As to the suggestion l6osely thrown out in the bill, that
the two ends of the bridge were in different States, it is not
easy to perceive how any equity can grow out of it All that
it would amount to would be a question of jurisdiction. But
that was waived and lost. It might have been pleaded to the
jurisdiction of the State court of Georgia. No such plea was
put in, and the court made a decree, which has never been ap-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

605

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

pealed from, nor set aside, nor reversed. In the Circuit Court
it was not objected to. All that was asked was to enjoin the
sale by the State court, and take the sale and distribution of
the proceeds into the hands of the Circuit Court, and this was
asked, consented to, and carried through by the present complainant, Shultz. And further, the sale and conveyance were
made under his power of attorney, so that the present owners
hold under his own deed.
There are two points which have been touched incidentally
in the preceding statement, which might be insisted upon more
at large; namely, the title of the city of Augusta, as a bon4
fide purchaser, and the length of time. The bill states that the
purchase was made on the 21st day of January, 1840. This
was upwards of seventeen years after the sale. It was upwards
of eleven years after the final decree, which placed it beyond
the reach of an appeal; beyond the reach equally of a bill of
review, which has the same limit at least as an appeal; and, in
truth, unassailable in any way, in the same jurisdiction; while
by its own nature it was protected from being questioned collaterally. What can be meant by the alleged notice, therefore,
it is impossible to conceive. Several more years elapsed, as
has been seen, before the complainants themselves awakened
to the consciousness that there was any thing to take notice of.
They slumbered on until 1845, before they commenced this
suit, giving no sign but of profound acquiescence'in what had
been done. What notice had the city of Augusta to the contrary? This is the grossest laches, or worse. Either destroys
all pretence of equity.
There might be added some points upon the form of. proceeding here adopted. If they should be deemed necessary,
they will be presented in a separate paper.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Henry Shultz and Lewis Cooper, in the year 1813, obtained
from the State of South Carolina a charter for a bridge over
the Savannah River, opposite the town of Augusta, in Georgia,
for the term of twenty-one years; and in 1814 the State of
Georgia granted to thefn a charter for the term of twenty years.,
In 1816, Henry Shultz and John McKinne, being the joint
owners of the bridge, formed a partnership in the business of
banking, under the name of the "Bridge Coinpany of Angusta"; the bridge was valued at seventy-five thousand dollars,
and it, with other property named, constituted the partnership
stock. In 1818, Shultz sold and transferred his interest in the
.nartnership to Barna McKinne. The consideration of this
51*

606

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et aL

purchase was the sum of sixty-three thousand -dollars, which
Shultz owed to the firm, and which w~as credited to him on
their books.
In a short time, the firm became greatly'embarrassed. Among
:other debts, they owed to the Bank of the State of Georgia the
sum of forty thousand dollars -and they obtained from it a further loan of fifty thousand dollars, with the view, as was stated,
to relieve the, Bridge Company. To secure the payment of
the sum of' ninety thousand dollars to the bank, the McKinnes
mortgaged the bridge, eighty negroes, and some real estate, the
10th of June, 1819. Previous to this the "Bridge Bank"
stopped payment. On being' informed of this fact, Shultz resumed his place in the firm, by procuring a transfer' of Barna
McKinne's interest. He advanced fifteen thousand dollars of
his own funds to pay deposits in the.bank, and took other
steps, with his partner, to sustain the credit of the bridge bills
in circulation.
In 1821, a petition was filed by the Bank of Georgia, in the
Superior Court for Richmond County, praying a foreclosure of
the above mortgage; and at the May term of that court, a rule
was entered to foreclose the mortgage, unless the principal and
interest due on it should'be paid; and at May term, 1822, the
rule was made absolute. The sum of $ 69,493 was found to
be due to the bank on the mortgage, and the property was directedtto be sold. The sale was enjoined by Shultz, Christian
Breithaupt, and others, by filing a bill against the bank in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Georgia,
which, among other things, prayed that the property might be
sold, and the proceeds applied to the payment of the creditors'
of the Bridge Company, and particularly to those who had obtained judgments. An order was made for the sale of the
bridge, and commissioners were appointed to make the sale.
The sale was made on the 28th of November, 1822, to the bank,
for the sum of seventy thousand dollars. For this amount the
bank issued scrip, which, by the order of the court, was deposited
ith its clerk.
. In w
the
further progress of the suit, the judges of the Circuit
.Court were opposed in opinion on the following points: - 1.
Whether the complainants were entitled to relief. 2. What
relief should be decreed to them. These points being certified
to the Supreme Court, at the January term, 1828, the cause was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The record did not show
that a"part of the defendants were citizens of the State of Georgin.
At the January term of the Supreme Court in 1830, Messrs.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

607

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al

Wilde and McDuffie, being counsel for the parties, agreed in
writing that the 'ause should be reinstated, and that the pleadings should be amended by alleging, "that the stockholders of
the bank were citizens of Georgia," and that the cause be argued. The court dismissed the case, on the ground that the
whole cause was certified, and not questions arising in its progress. And the case was remanded to the Circuit Court, with
"directions to proceed according to law."
Tifs mandate was received by the Circuit Court at their May
term, 1930, and the case was reinstated on the docket. At.d at
the same term "the cause came oil to be heard on the amended
bill, answers, exhibits, and evidence, and the court having considered the same, it was ordered and decreed, that the sale of
the Augusta bridge, made by virtue of certain powers of attorney and the consent of the parties, and held and conducted under the direction of commissioners heretofore appointed under
this court, be, .and the same is hereby, ratified and colifirmed,
and the said Bank of the State of Georgia vested with a full,
absolute, and perfect title to the said bridge and its appurtenances, under the said sale, freed, acquitted, released, and discharged from all manner of liens, claims, or encumbrances, at
law or in equity, on the part of the said Henry Shul~z, John
M Kinne, Barna McKinne," &c.
"And it is further ordered and decreed by the court, b)y and
with the consent of the parties, complainants and defendants,
that the scrip issued by the Bank of the State of Georgia for
the sum of seventy-one thousand six hundred and eighty-six
dollars and thirty-six cents," &c., "be cancelled and delivered
up to the bank by the clerk," &c., "and-that the bill of complaint as to the several other matters therein contained, be dismissed, -vith costs." Under which decree is the following agreeWe consent and agree that the foregoing decree be
ment :-"
entered'at the next or any succeeding term of the said Circuit
Court of the United States, District of Georgia": signed, "George
BIcDuffie, Sol. for complainants, and R. H. Wilde, Sol. for defendants." Dated Washington, 10 April, 1S30. And the court
say,-" The within decree having been drawn up, agreed to,
and subscribed by the solicitors, oil behalf of the parties, complainants and defendants, oil motion of Mr. Wilde. ordered that
the same be filed and entered as the decree of this court,"
signed by both of the judges.
Fifteen years after the above decree was entered, the bill now
before us was filed by Yarborough, as trustee of Henry Shultz,
an insolvent debtor, and for the creditors of Henry Shultz, and
Henry Shultz in his own right, which they say is "in the na-

608

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

ture of a bill of revivor and supplement," against the Bank of
the State of Georgia, the City Council of Augusta, John IIcKinne; and Gazaway B. Lamar. In this bill the proceedings in
the -original suit are referred to, and many of them stated at
length, and they are made a part of the present procedure. And
the complainants pray that the said original bill, with all its
amendments, the answers, decrees, decretal orders, and evidence,
may be reinstated and revived for the causes set forth, to the
extent of the several interests of the parties to this bill.
By way of supplement, the complainant Shultz states, that
under the insolvent debtors act of South Carolina, he executed
an assignment of all his estate, in trust for his creditors, to
Thomas Harrison, on the 13th of October, 1828. That his interest in the bridge was transferred by this assignment. After-wards, the complainant, John W. Yarborough, was appointed
trustee of Shultz for the benefit of his creditors. That the
bridge and its appurtenances having been originally pledged, as
copartnership pyoperty, by John McKinne and Shultz for the
redemption of the bills issued by them, the lien, never having
been released, still remains. And if the mortgage executed to
the bank be valid, the bank and all claiming under it occupy
the ground of mortgagees in possession, and are bound to account for the rents and profits of the bridge, the same never
having been sold under the foreclosure of the mortgage. That
the bridge and its income are first liable to the redemption of
bridge bills. After these are paid, one half of- the surplus in
the hands of the complainant, Yarborough, as trustee, to satisfy
the creditors of Shultz, &c.
On the 4th of Mlay, 1838, the bank conveyed its interest in
the bridge to G. B. Lamar, for the sum of seventy thousand
dollars, by a quitclaim deed. That Lamar purchased with a
full kn06wledge of the title, and held the same, receiving the
nrofits, 'up to 21st January, 1840, when he conveyed his interest in the bridge to the City Council of Augusta, for the sum
of one hundi'ed thousand dollars. That the city corporation
had full knowledge of the claims on the bridge. The Legislatures of Georgia and South Carolina extended their charter of
the bridge to the bank, on the 23d of December, 1840, reserving
all liens upon it. That Yarborough, as trustee, out of the sale
of the property of Shultz, paid bridge bills and judgments on
such bills to the amount of about seventy thousand dollars, and
that the unsatisfied creditors have the equity of now requiring
a like amount of the copartnership property of the bridge company to be applied in payment of their individual claims. And
in addition to the above payment, Shultz avers that he has paid

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

609

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

out of his private means, for the redemption of bridge bills, a
sum of about one hundred and fifty-three thousand two hundred and ninety-six dollars. That the total amount paid by
him out of his private funds, on account of bridge bills, was four
hundred thousand eight hundred and twenty-six dollars, which
he insists in equity he is entitled to receive, next after the redemption of the outstanding bridge bills. There is outstanding
in bridge bills about the sum of ninety-two thousand dollars.
And the complainants allege that the decree, as entered on
the original bill, is void as to all the parties except as regards
the claim of Breithaupt, as the solicitor for the complainants in
said bill did not represent the creditors of Shultz, and that no
act of the solicitor could impair their rights. That all the right
of Shultz passed out of him by virtue of his assignment for the
benefit of his creditors. That the decree was a fraud upon
them. That the sale of the bridge by'the commissioners was
void, as John-McKinne, an equal partner of Shultz, fiever assented to it. That the Bank of Georgia, and all those who
have held and are now holding under it, are in equity bound io
account. But if the sale of the bridge shall be held valid, the
complainants allege that the bank is bound to account for the
amount of the purchase-money and interest, and for the net
sum of tolls received. And the complainants pray, that the
original bill, with all the proceedings thereon, may be revived,
and stand as before the decree wasentered in 1830.; that the
said decree may be opened, reviewed, and reversed; that the
mortgage to the bank may be declared null and void; and that
the sale may be set aside, &c.
The defendants demurred to the bill, on the grdund 11that
the complainants have, not, by their bill, made such a case as
entitles them in'a court of equity to any discovery from the defendants respectively, or any or either of them, or any relief
against them or either of them, as to the matters contained in
the bill," &c. And afterwards John McKinne filed his answer,
admitting the general. allegations in the bill.
-This bill has been considered by some of the defendants'
counsel as a bill of review. But it has neither the foirm nor
the substance of such a bill. Since the ordinances of Lord
Bacon, a bill of review can only be brought for "error iu law
appearing in the body of the decree or record," without fnrher
examination of matters of fact; or for some new meatdr of
fact discovered, which was not known and could not-possibly
have been used at the time of the decree. But if this were a
bill .of review, it would be barred by the analogy it bears to a
writ of error, which must be prosecuted within five years from

610

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

the rendition of the judgment. Whiting et al. v. Bank of the
United States, 13 Peters, 15.
Nor is this properly denominated a bill of revivor. When, in
the progress of a suit in equity, the proceedings are suspended
from the want of proper parties, it is necessary to file a bill of
revivor. A supplemental bill is filed on leave, and for matter
happening after the filing of the bill, and is designed to supply
some defect in the structure of the original bill. But this does
not appear to be strictly of that character. The complainants
denominate it a bill "in the nature of a bill of revivor and
supplement." It must be treated as an original bill, having
for its objects the prayers specifically set forth.
The proceedings on the original bill, under which the property now claimed was sold, are not before this court, in their
appellate character. We cannot correct the errors which may
have intervened in that procedure, nor set it aside by a reversal
of the decree. That case is collateral to the issue now before us.
The complainants insist, that the proceedings in the original
suit,'einbracing the interlocutory decree under which the property was sold, and the consent decree of the 6th of May, 1830,
were -void for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. It is
not necessary now to inquire, whether the Circuit Court had
power to enjoin proceedings under the judgment in the State
court. -The injunction was issued at the instance of Shultz,
and for his benefit, and no question of jurisdiction was raised.
But as there was no allegation in the original bill of citizenship
of the stockholders of the Bank of Georgia, it is supposed the
proceedings were coram non judice.
When the points on which the opinions of the judges of the
Circuit Court were opposed were brought before the Supreme
Court, at their Jahuary term, 1828, the cause was dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. But afterwards, at the January term,
1S30, of the Supreme Court, by the agreement of counsel, the
record 'was amended by inserting the allegation, "that the
stockholders of the bank were citizens of Georgia," and the
cause was reinstated on the docket, and dismissed because the
whole case was certified, and not the points on which the judges
differed, as required by the act of Congress. The cause was
sent down to the Circuit Court by a mandate, 'which directed
that court to proceed therein according to law.
This court, 'it is contended, have no power to amend a.receord brought before them, and consequently the above entry
was void.
There is nothing in the nature of an appellate jurisdiction,
proceeding according to 'the common law,'which forbids the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

611

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

granting of amendments. And the thirty-second section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, allowing amendments, is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace causes of appellate, as well as original jurisdiction. 1 Gallis. C. C. 22. But it has been the practice of this
court, where amendments are necessary, to remand the cause
to the Circuit Court for that purpose. The only exception
to this rule has been, where the counsel on both sides have
agreed to the amendment. This has been often done, and it
has not.been supposed that there was any want of power in the
court to permit it. The objection is, that consent cannot give
jurisdiction. This is admitted; but the objection has no application to the case. Over the subject-matter of the suit and
of the partibs, the court had jurisdiction, and the amendment
corrected an inadvertence, by stating the fact of citizenship
truly.
When a cause is brought before this court on a division of
opinion by the judges of the Circuit Court, the points certified
only are before us. The cause should remain on the docket
of.the Circuit Court, and at their discretion may be prosecuted.
But if no amendment had been made, would the orders and
decrees in the case by the Circuit Court have been nullities ?
That they have been erroneous, and liable to be reversed, is admitted. In Skillern's Ex'rs v. May's Ex'rs, 6 Cranch, 267, a
final decree had been pronounced, and by writ of error removed
to the Supreme Court, who reversed the decree, aud after the
cause was sent back to the Circuit Court, it was discovered to
be a cause not within the jurisdiction of the court; but a question arose whether in that court it could be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction, after the Supreme Court had acted thereon.
The opinion of the judges being opposed on that question, it
was certified to the Supreme Court for their decision. And this
cQurt held, "that the Circuit Cburt was bound to carry the decree into execution, although the jurisdiction of that court be
not alleged in the pleadings."
The judgments of inferior courts, technically so called, are disregarded, unless their jurisdiction is shown. - But this is not the
character of the Circuit Courts of the United States. In Kempe's
The
Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Crunch, 185, this court say, -"
courts of the United States are all of limited jurisdiction, and
their proceedings are erroneous, if the jurisdiction be not shown
upon them. Judgments rendered in such cases may certainly
be reversed, but this court is not prepared to say that they are
absolute nullities, which may be totally disregarded."
And again in the case of McCormick v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat.
199, in answer to the argument that the proceedings were void,

612

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgii State Bank et al.

where the jurisdiction of the court was not shown, the court
say, the argument "prodeeds upon an incorrect view of the
character and jurisdiction of the inferior courts of the United
States. They are all of limfted jurisdiction, but they are not,
on that account, inferior courts, in the technical sense of those
words, whose judgments, taken alone, are to be disregarded. If
the jurisdiction be not alleged in the proceedings, their judgments and decrees are erroneous, and may, upon a writ of error
or appeal, be reversed for that cause. But they are not absolute nullities."
From these authorities; it is clear that the proceedings in the
original case are not void for want of an allegation of citizenship of the stockholders of the bank. They were erroneous,
and, had no amendment been made, might have been reversed,
within five years from the final decree, by an appeal or a bill
of review. But the mandate of this court which contained the
amendment, as to the citizenship of the stockholders of the
bank, agreed to by the counsel, was filed on the 6th of May,
1830, in the Circuit Court, and it necessarily became a part of
the record of that court. This was before the final decree was
entered, and it removed the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court. After this, the decree could not have been reversed for
the want of jurisdiction. In the case of Bradstreet v. Thomas,
12 Peters, 64, the court held that an averment of citizenship in
a joinder in demurrer, not being objected -to at the time, was
sufficient to give jurisdiction.
The sale of the bridge is alleged to be void, as it was made
without the consent of John McKinne, who was an equal partner with Shultz.
The court ordered the bridge to he sold by Walker and Fitzsimmons, commissioners, and that the parties should eiecute
powers of attorney to the commissioners authorizing the sale.
All the parties concerned executed the powers except McKinne,
and his refisal or neglect to do so prevented the sale. But
afterwards the court, with the assent of the complainants, ordered the bridge to be sold for a sum not less than fifty thousand dollars, by the same commissioners, who were authorized
to take possession of the bridge and receive the tolls until the
sale was made.
. McKinne does not complain of this sale, and Shultz consented to it. It was manifest from the embarrassment of the
Bridge Company that the bridge must be sold, and the nature
of the property seemed to require a speedy sale. All objection
to that sale, by the parties on the record, must be considered
as having been waived by the consent decree in May, 1830.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

613

Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

That decree "ratified and confirmed"- the previous sale of the
bridge. That the counsel who consented to that decree represented the parties named on the record is not controverted. A
decree thus assented to and sanctioned by the court must stand,
free from all technical objections.
But it is urged, that the consent of Shultz to the final decree did not bind his creditors, to whom he had assigned the
bridge and his other property under the insolvent act of South
Carolina.
That assignment was made on the 13th of October, 1828.
The bridge was sold by the commissioners, under the interlocutory decree of the court, in 1822 ; and the proceeds were held
by the bank, subject to the order of the court. There was no
abatement of the suit by the assignment of Shultz. The insolvent laws of South Carolina had no extraterritorial operation. They can only act upon the persons and the property
within the State. The assignment did not affect property in
Georgia, which was in the custody of the law, - property which
had been sold, with the express consent of Shultz, under the
authority of a court of chancery; and the proceeds of which
were kept subject to the distribution of the court.
The trustee of Shultz took no step to connect himself with
the proceedings in the Circuit Court, although two years elapsed
after the assignment, before the final decree was entered. For
about seventeen years, he seems to have been, passive in this
matter, and until the present bill was filed. After so great a
lapse of fime, without excuse, he cannot be heard to object to
a decree which was entered by consent. The power of attorney given by Shultz to the commissioners, which authorized
them to sell the bridge, for the purposes. specified, was conclusive upon him, and all claiming under him. And the decree
which was agreed to by his counsel followed as a necessary
consequence of the sale.
It does not appear that the holders of bridge bills had a specific lien upon the bridge. They were creditors of the Bridge
Company, and could claim the rights of creditors against a
fraudulent conveyance of the bridge and of its proceeds. But
such a claim must be duly asserted and diligently prosecuted.
A failure in this respect for fifteen years might well be construed into an acquiescence fatal to the claim. We cannot now,
under the circumstances stated, look into the decree to ascertain whether, in the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of
the bridge and of the other property, the court may not have
mistaken the rights of some of the creditors of Shultz.
The objection, that the mortgage to the bank under a statute
52
vo.. vill.

614

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy et al. v. Georgia State Bank et al.

of Georgia was void, is not open for examination. If any thing
was settled by the decree, it was the validity of that instrument. And this remark applies to several of the other objections made by the complainants. McKinne was a party on the
record, and through his counsel assented to the final decree;
but the counsel of Shultz now, object to its validity,. because
McKinne did not assent to the sale of the bridge. And this
objection is, for the first time, made in the bill before us. And
it is not made by McKinne.
Within five years .after the decree was entered, he might have
reversed it, if erroneous, by an appeal or a bill of review. And
that time having longsince elapsed, the decree must stand'as
concluding the rights of parties and privies, unless it shall be
held to be void. It cannot be so held, as we have shown, on
the reasons assigned in the bill. Fraud in the obtainment of
the final decree is not alleged in the bill. If this were stated and
proved, it would authorize the court to set aside the decree.
But even this would not affect the sale of the property, unless
the purchasers should be, in some degree, connected with the
fraud.
The final decree in the case, which covered and adjusted the
whole subject of controversy before the court, was not only
assented to by the counsel, but it was drawn up and agreed to
by them. The court adopted it as their own decree, and entered it upon their recor~i.
It confirmed the sale of the bridge,
and made a distribution of the proceeds. The bill was dismissed as to certain matters where relief was not given. The
proceedings were not void for want of jurisdiction in the court.
Nothing-was left for its future action. The whole controversy
was terminated. And here the matter rested for fifteen years,
until the bill before us was filed. It asks the court to set aside
the decree, and reinvestigate the whole matter of the former
suit. No fraud is alleged against the decree. The want of
jurisdiction in the court, as urged, is not sustained. Errors in
the procedure cannot now be examined. The decree of the
Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on td be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit-Court of the United States for the District
On consideration
of Georgia, and was argued by counsel.
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

