124

SUPREME COURT.
Bennett v. Butterworth.

JOHN H.

BENNETT,

PLAINTIFF

IN

ERROR,

V'.

SAMUEL

].

BUTTERWORTH.

Where a plaintiff in the court below filed a petition for the recovery from the defendant of four slaves, whose value he alleged to be $ 2,700, and the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiff "for $ 1,200, the value of the negro slaves in suit," and the
plaintiff thereupon released the judgment for $ 1,200, and the court adjudged that
he recover of the said defendant the said slaves, the case is within the appellate
jurisdiction of this court.
The plaintiff averred in his petition, that the slaves were worth S-2,700, 2nd by his
releasing the judgment for $1,200. the only question before this court is the right
to the property. And as the defendant below prosecuted the appeal, the plaintiff
cannot be allowed to deny here the truth of his own averment of the value of the
property in dispute.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Texas. The
facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
A motion was made to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction,
because the sum or matter in-controversy was not of the value
of two thousand dollars.
The motion to dismiss was sustained by Mr. Hughes and
Mr. Howard, and opposed by Mr. HBrrs.
-The reasons in support of the motion were the following.
The counsel for Butterworth move to dismiss the writ of
error, because the sum or matter in controversy is not of the
value of two thousand dollars. Bennett's counsel, on this motion, have taken affidavits to show the negroes to be worth two
thousand dollars and upwards.
We contend, for the defendant in error, that the affidavits
cannot be read: 1. Because they contradict the verdict of the jury, which is
a part of the record. The error complained of is, that the court
erred in giving judgment for the negroes, instead of for the
value assessed by the jury; while, on the other side, it is
insisted that the judgment was right, and properly for the negroes. The matter then in controversy is the negroes and
their value. If the court should be of the opinion, that judgment ifn the court below could only have been rendered for the
value assessed, then the judgment will be reversed, and judgment rendered on the verdict below for that value; and thereby
the plaintiff in error, by proving by affidavits what is insisted
upon to be the true value, will get off with paying the twelve
hundred dollars, though, by his own showing, the value is more
than two thousand dollars. Such a result as this will certainly
not be tolerated. Could the matter be so arranged that, in'the

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

125

Bennett v. Butterworth.

event the judgment is reversed, a judgment could be rendered
for the true value, it might be otherwise; for then in truth the
matter in controyersy in the Supreme Court would be of the
value of two thousand dollars; but, as it stands, the plaintiff
may be enabled to get clear of a delivery of the negroes, but in
no event can be compelled to pay what he says is the true
value.
2. Because the judgment in the court below was for the
plaintiff ; and that judgment it is which, by the writ of error,
is in controversy in the Supreme Court; and upon an affirmance
of the judgment below, if the affirmed judgment would be for
the value of $ 2,000 or more, then the court would have jurisdiction; but in the case, in any event, there cannot be a judgment for more than twelve hundred dollars, or for the negroes,
which the record proves to be of the value of $1,200, and the
court cannot take jurisdiction. Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Peters, 33;
Smith v. Honey, 3 Peters, 469; Knapp v. Banks, 2 How. 73.
3. Mr. Justice Story says, -"
To support the jurisdiction, it
is necessary. that it appear upon the face of the record, or
upon affidavits to be filed by the parties, that the sum or value
in controversy exceeds $ 2,000, exclusive of costs." Hagan v.
Foison, 10 Peters, 160.
When the value appears upon the face of the record, that
record must be the only evidence; but when it is silent, evidence aliunde may be looked to. When the plaintiff in his
declaration or petition claims more than two thousand dollars,
and the judgment is for the defendant below, the court has
jurisdiction; because, as "the court say in Gordon v. Ogden,
the whole sum claimed " may be still recovered; and, consequently, the whole sum claimed is still in dispute." But the
same court say, in the same case, "If the writ of error be
brought by the defendant in the original action, the judgment
of this court can only affirm that of the Circuit Court; and consequently, the matter in dispute cannot exceed the amount of
the judgment."
From these rules it would seem that the record, when containing on its face evidence of the value, is conclusive.
The rule as to affidavits was adopted of necessity, and applies
only in cases where the record does not furnish evidence of the
value. This is shown by the case in which the rule was first
laid down. See Williamson v. Kincaid, 4 Dallas, 20.
.41r. Harrisagainst the motion.
The counsel for the deTendant in error have moved .to dismiss the writ of error, because the sum or matter in contro11*

SUPREME COURT.
Bennett v. Butterworth.

versy is not of the value of two thousand dollars. But the
same counsel admits in court, that, when the judgment was
rendered, the slaves in controversy were worth more than said
sum.
He contends, however, that affidavits to that effect cannot be
read: -

1. Because they would contradict the verdict of the jury.
2. Because the judgment of the court below was for the
plaintiff for property which the record proves to be only of the
value of twelve hundred dollars.
And, in support of these positions, he cites the cases of Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Peters, 33; Smith v. Honey, Ibid. 460; Knapp
v. Banks, 2 Howard, 73; Hagan v. Foison, 10 Peters, 160;
and Williamson v. Kincaid, 4 Dallas, 20.
Now, for the plaintiff in error it is contended, that these authorities do not sustain the position taken in the brief of the
counsel for the defendant in error. In the first three cases, it
was impossible to prove that the sum in controversy amounted
to more than two thousand dollars, for judgments were rendered
for money; in the first instance, for the sum of four hundred
dollars; in the second, for only one hundred dollars; and in
the thira, for $ 1,720. In the fourth and fifth cases; the amount
did not appear upon the face of the record, and the court held
that the plaintiffs in error might prove by affidavits that the
value of the property in controversy, in these respective causes,
amounted to more than the sum of $2,000. And it may be
remarked, that, in the three cases cited first above, the only
question was whether the sum claimed in the count, or that
which was recovered, ought to be regarded as the amount in
controversy; and to which sum the court should look in order
to determine the question of jurisdiction. And the onus of
proving that the value of the property amounted to more than
two thousand dollars rested upon the plaintiff, (who had
alleged that its value was $ 2,700,) and not upon the defendant in the court below. Now, for the first time, the burden of
making that proof rests upon the defendant in that court, and
he is prepared to make it.
It is respectfully suggested, that there can be produced no
decision of this court refusing to permit the plaintiff in error to
make such proof. And to deny the privilege, under the imposing circumstances of this case, would, we contend, be to
deny to the plaintiff and the defendant a mutuality of rights
under the statute, the benefits of which we are seeking to obtain.
The case of The United States v. The Brig Union, 4 Cranch,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

127

Bennett v. Butterworth.

216, bears a resemblance to this, and in that the court permitted affidavits to be read to prove the value of the property in
controversy; see, also, Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dallas, 401.
It is further contended, that the effect claimed for this verdict ought not to be conceded to it, for that it is illegal, and
that it ought to have been set aside in the court below. It will
be seen, by reference to the plaintiff's petition, - particularly
to the prayer thereof, - that this suit was brought for the recovery of the slaves "in specie," (not for the recovery of their
value,) and for damages for. their unlawful detention. The
important issue, viz. whether the right of property was in the
plaintiff or the defendant, was, in the verdict of the jury, entirely omitted. See Coffin v. Jones, 11 Pick. 45.
2. It did not embrace all the issues which it should have
done. See Crouch v. Martin, 3 Blackford, 256; Patterson v.
United States, 2 Wheat. 221; Jewett v. Davis, 6 N. Hamp.
518.
3. It should have found the value of each of the slaves separately.
II. We further contend, that the judgment is illegal, because
it is not responsive to the verdict.
And it is contended, on the part of the plaintiff in error, that
he ought not to be estopped from proving the value of the
property in controversy by a verdict which is illegal, and is
not responsive to the issues; nor by a judgment which is entirely foreign to the verdict. Estoppels are not favored in law,
because they tend to exclude the truth. That such would be
the case here cannot be questioned. Again, estoppels, like
contracts, must bind both -parties, or they will bind neither.
Each court is the guardian of its own jurisdiction. Kendrick v. McQuary, Cooke, 480. And this proposition may be
said to be universally correct in regard to appellate courts, established for the purpose of reExamining causes tried in inferior
tribunals, and to correct the errors which may be there committed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court have considered the motion made in this case
to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. From the
mode of judicial proceeding adopted in Texas, the motion presents a-new question, and one that-is not free from difficulty.
The suit is not brought in any of the forms of action known
to the common law. It is instituted by petition; and the plaintiff in the court below seeks to recover four slaves,- which he
alleges are his property, and are detained from him by the de-

128

SUPREME

COURT.

Bennett v. Butterworth.

fendant. The value of each slave is averred separately in the
petition, the whole amounting to two thousand seven hundred
dollars. The verdict of the jury is as follows: "We th4 jury find for the plaintiff twelve hundred dollars,
the Vlue of the negro slaves in suit, with six and a quarter
cents damages."
And the record states, that thereupon the plaintiff released the
judgment for twelve hundred dollars in open court; and the
court adjudged that he recover of the defendant the said slaves
and the damages assessed by the jury, and his costs.
This proceeding appears to be a substitute for the common
law action of detinue, and resembles it in many respects. In
that action, if the jury find that the property belongs to the
plaintiff, and is detained from him by the defendant, they ought
to find at the same time the value of each separate article in
dispute, and the judgment of the court is that the plaintiff recover the property, or the value thereof as- found by the jury,
provided he cannot obtain possession.of the property, together
with his damages and costs. Upon such a judgment a writ of
error certainly would not lie, when the value assessed by the
jury was less than two thousand dollars. For the value of the
property in dispute would be fixed-by the verdict and the judgment of the court, and both parties would be bound by it.
But in the case* before us, the finding of the jury and the
judgment of the court differ from the proceedings in an action
of detinue. The gross value of the four slaves is found by the
jury, and not the separate value of each of them. "And the
value as found forms no part of the judgment of the court.
The plaintiff was permitted to release it, -and although it is
said in the record that he released the judgment for this sum, yet
it appears that no judgment was rendered for it, and that it was
released before any was given.
The judgment of the District Court therefore decides nothing
more than the right to the property specified in the petition; and
whether- that judgment is erroneous or not is all that this court
can examine into upon the writ of error. The sum which the
plaintiff below (who is the defendant in error here) is entitled to
recover, if the property is placed beyond his reach and he fails
to obtain possession of it, can foim no part of the judgment of
this court. The only matter in controversy is the four slaves;
and their actual value, whatever it may be, is the value of the
matter in dispute.
Now if the.judgment of the District Court had been for the
defehdant, the plaintiff would evidently have been entitled to
Ymaintain a writ of error. And as he sues for the specific prop-

'JANUARY TERM, 1850.

129

Bennett v. Butterworth.
erty, and avers the value to be $ 2,700, he would have been
entitled to the writ, even if he had laid his damages for the
detention below $ 2,000. For the averment of value when he
sues for property shows the value of the thing in controversy,
as much as the averment of debt or damage, when he sues for
money. And when he has rejected the value found by the
jury, and refused a judgment for it, and is not bound by that
finding, cin he bind the defendant to it, and thereby deprive
him of his writ of error, upon the ground that the property in
dispute isnot worth $ 2,000?
This is the question upon the motion before us.
In cases where the plaintiff sues for, money, and claims in his
pleadings a larger sum than $ 2,000, and obtains a judgment for
a smaller amount, the sum for which the'judgment is rendered
is the only matter in controversy, when the defendant brings
the writ of error. Because, if the plaintiff rests satisfied with
it, and takes no step to reverse it, he is bound by it as well as
the defendant. Both parties, therefore, stand upon an equal
footing in that respect. But if the plaintiff brings the'writ of
error upon the ground that he is entitled to more than the judgment was rendered for, then his averment in his declaration
shows the amount he claimed; and as that claim is thematter
for which he brings suit, he is entitled to the w rit of error if
that claim appears to be large enough to give jurisdiction to
this court. These principles hav been settled in this court by
the cases referred td in the argument.
In the case before us, the plaintiff avers in his petition that
the slaves for which the suit is brought are worth $2,700.
The right to these slaves must be the only matter in controversy here, whether the writ of error is .sued out by the plaintiff or the defendant. If by the plaintiff, he would undoubtedly be entitled to it, upon the ground that the property in dispute, and which he is seeking to recover in this suit, is claimedto be worth more than $ 2,000; and he would be entitled, under
the decisions of this court, to rely on the averment in his petition, to show that the amnount in value of the slaves he claimed
is sufficient to give jurisdiction to this'court. Can he, then, be
permitted to deny here the truth of his own averment, when
precisely tjhe same thing -the same property - is the matter
in controversy upon the writ of error brought by the defendant? We think not. And as by his release he prevented a
judgment from being entered, fixing the value, as between
these parties in this suit, at $ 1,200, the averment in his petition must be regarded as determining the amount in controversy upon a writ of error brought by either plaintiff or defend-

130

SUPREME COURT.
Bennett v. Butterworth.

ant. Consequently, this court has jurisdiction upon this writ,
and the motion to dismiss it must be overruled.
Mr, Justice DANIEL.
In the opinion of the court pronounced in this cause I am unable to concur, regarding that opinion as reconcilable With neither
the aft of Crongress (Judiciary Act, ยง 22) regulating the jurisdiction of this court, nor with the fundamental rules of pleading and evidence, but as in contravention of both. This cause
is in effect, and in form except with regard to the frame of the
petition, corresponding with the declaration at common law, in
all its details and proceedings, an action of detinue for the recovery of four slaves. In every such action, the authorities tell
us that it is requisite to describe the property demanded with
so much certainty, that it.may be delivered up in specie; and it
was ruled by the older cases, that, where the property consisted
of several articles, the plaintiff must show the value of each particular article, and not state the aggregate value. Subsequently, however, it has been ruled that the declaration may mention
the separate value of each article, or it may state the value in
gross; 'and this appears to be the established doctrine in England at this day. See Com. Dig., tit. Pleader (2 X 2). So in
1 Chitty on Pleading, p. 377, it is said, that, "in actions for injuring or taking away goods or chattels, it is in general necessary that thbir-quality, quantity, or number, and value or price,
should be stated; the assigned reason is, that a former recovery
could not else be pleaded in bar to a second action for the same
goods; neither could the defendant properly defend himself."
Then with respect to the verdict and judgment, to be rendered
in the action of detinue, the law is thus given in Com. Dig.,
tit. Pleader (2 X 12): - " The judgment against the defendant
shall be for the recovery of the thing detained vel valorem inde
and costs; and if judgment be upon confession non sum informatus, demurrer, &q., a writ of inquiry shall be awarded to inquire of the values. And after judgment, if a distringas goes
ad deliberandum bona, and the defendant does not, the plaintiff
shall have damages taxed by the inquest, so that it lies in the
defendant's election to deliver the goods or the value."
Sir William Blackstone in treating of the action of detinue,
Vol. IV. p. 413, thus states the law: - " In detinue, after judgment, the plaintiff shall have a distringasto compel the defendant to deliver the goods by repeated distresses of his chattels;
and if the defendant still continues obstinate, then (if judgment
hath been by default or demurrer) the sheriff shall summon an
inquest to ascertain the value of the goods, and the plaintiff's

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

131

Bennett v. Butterworth.

damages (which being so assessed, or by the verdict in case of
an issue) shall be levied on the person or goods of the defendant. So that after all, in replevin and detinue, (the only actions for recovering the specific possession of personal chattels,)
if the wrong-doer be very perverse, he cannot be compelled to
a restitution of the thing taken or detained." So, too, in Chitty on Pleading, Vol. I. p. 124, it is said, - " The nature of this
action requires, that the verdict and judgment be such that a
specific remedy may be had for the recovery of the goods detained, or a satisfaction in value, for each parcel, in case they
or either of them cannot be obtained. The judgment is on the
alternative, that the plaintiff do recover the goods or the value
thereof, if he cannot have the goods themselves."
The citation of these seemingly trite and familiar principles
of law will not be deemed useless, when an application of them,
and of the reasons on which they are founded, shall be made
to the case under consideration. In the authorities above
quoted, we have disclosed to us the propriety and necessity
(resulting from the peculiar character of the remedy) for averring in the declaration, and of ascertaining by the verdict and
judgment, the value of the property sought; because that
value is to become the measure of redress to the plaintiff, in
one branch of the alternative, in the evant that the other shall
prove fruitless. It is indispensable, therefore, that this measure
be ascertained upon legal testimony and solemn investigation
before the court, and under its supervising authority, -as indispensable, fully, as that-the title to the property should be so ascertained; for both enter alike into the redress of the plaintiff,
and flow from the same source. His right to the one rests
upon the same foundation with his right to the other, and if
he had no right to one, he had a right to neither. Nor can it
be said that the measure of the plaintiff's redress rests mainly
in the breast or in the action of the court; on the contrary, it
rests rather in the opinion and action of the jury. The court
cannot, even with the parties and witnesses before it, determine the value of the property, or the parties' right thereto.
The court, by awarding a new trial, may correct an excess or
irregularity of any kind on the part of the jury; but it could
have no power to find for either party upon the issue before
the jury, nor augment or diminish by one cent the measure of
redress established by the jury. If, then, such a power belonged
not to the court when in a course of regular judicial inquiry,
with the parties and witnesses fully before it, does it not seem
strange to contend, that such a power can be exercised collaterally by a different tribunal, neither trying the issue, nor weigh-

132

SUPREME

COURT.

Bennett v. Butterworth.

ing the evidence which the jury had before them, and in the
-absence of all or any of the circumstances, exercised upon ex
parte affidavits before the jury, thereby overturning what twelve
inen upon their oaths, and in regular discharge of their functions, have done, and what the law through them has declared
shall be the standard of value ? And for what purpose, it may
he asked, is this collateral inquiry to be allowed? Not, strange
as it may seem, to settle any other alternate value of the property, nor to put any estimate upon it at all; but to let in other
questions connected with the title, or with some proceedings in
the court below, wholly disconnected with the value of the
property. But it is said that the plaintiff below has released
his right to the damages assessed by the jury, and therefore can
no longer enforce them. What of that? What possible connection can exist between the power of the plaintiff to enforce
his judgment, as affected by any act or indiscretion of his own,
and the value of the property as assessed by the jury? Does
the release of the estimated value render that value either greater or smaller than it was before ? Possibly this act of the plaintiff may render his power to enforce the verdict and judgment
less efficient; but to reason from that consequence to the value
of the property as found by the jury, appears to me to be an argument as illogical as any that can be conceived. The estimated value, the true measure settled by the jury, remains
unchanged, although it may have been released. The verdict
has never been reversed or annulled. Moreover, it may not follow necessarily, that the release of the damages by the plaintiff
below vitiates the judgment, or deprives the plaintiff of the
power to enforce it; for we find by the authorities that a judgment may be by confession, or non-sumr informatus, or on demurrer, in either of which cases judgment may be entered, and
that afterwards, if the defendant will not deliver the property,
damages for the value and for the detention may be assessed;
and such value, when assessed in the proper, regular, legal
mode, is all for which execution can be had against the person
or property of the defendant. But the inquiry is not properly
instituted here whether the plaintiff, by error or indiscretion,
has lost the power of enforcing his verdict and judgment; the
question is purely one of jurisdiction, dependent upon the value
of th6 subject, and that value ascertained by all the solemnities,
and in the only mode known to the law, - solemnities, as I
contend, nowhere to be properly gainsaid. Let it be supposed
that. there had been no release of damages or value by the
plaintiff below. The principles applicable to the action of this
court would be precisely those involved in the case as it now

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

133

Bennett v. Butterworth.

stands. Then let it be supposed that, after taking jurisdiction
upon this collateral inquiry, this court should come to the conclusion that there was no error- in the proceedings and judgment in the court below. What manner of mandate would be
sent to that court? Would this court, upon its own estimate of
the value of the subject founded upon affidavits, and because it
had claimed jurisdiction, upon such an estimate, order the Circuit Court to augment the damages assessed to the plaintiff below? Could they by so doing open again that which had become res judicata? If they should not do this, they would
confessedly have effected a wrong to the plaintiff; and if they
should attempt to do so, I desire to know their authority for
such a proceeding, and what standard or measure for their mandate they would adopt; they would have repudiated the verdict
of a jury and a judgment of the court, and what higher or other
standard they would adopt I am at a loss to conceive. In defence of the proceeding permitted in this case, it has been contended that, by the practice of this court, in cases sounding in
damages purely, a plaintiff is permitted to confer jurisdiction on,
this tribunal by laying his damages at an amount ad libitum,
sufficient for that purpose. If the practice of this court is to be
understood in the latitude in which it is just expressed, that
practice must be deemed to be in consonance with neither the
letter nor the spirit of the statute. In cases arising ex contractit or quasi ex contractu, which in their original form and magnitude might fall within the rule laid down by Congress, but
which, in the progress of investigation by the application of payments or set-offs, should be brought below the minimum established by law, or in cases of tort, which, from their peculiar
character, might also come within the reason of the same rule,
(though the latter must be regarded as liable to strong doubt,)
jurisdiction may be claimed. But if either the practice, or any
express annunciation from this court, is to be apprehended as
placing it at the option of parties, plaintiffs or defendants, to
refer all their contests to this tribunal, however their character
may be stamped and ascertaipned by the decision of the inferior
courts, and in contravention of such solemn decisions, given
upon full investigation by courts and jdries, why then, by the
rules or the practice of this court, the act of Congress is substantially repealed, and the proceedings of the courts below are
a mere mockery. The value of the subject of the controversy,
as ascertained in the court below, supplies the only safe and
uniform rule as to jurisdiction, in cases wherein jurisdiction is
dependent on value. My opinion, therefore, is, that it is incompetent to either of the parties, or to this court, in the indirect
VOL. v111.
12

134

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Wri]liams et al.

and collateral mode here attempted, and upon evidence entirely
dehors and. unconnected with the record, to impeach or inquire
into the verdict and judgment rendered in the District Court of
Texas; that such a proceeding is utterly subversive of the
act of Congress limiting the right to appeals and writs of error,
and equally subversive of the fundamental rule of pleading and
of evidence, which establishes undeniable verity- in the solemn
proceedings of courts acting within the sphere of their jurisdic-,:
tion, and establishes every fact and every conclusion embraced
within the scope of those proceedings.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Messrs. Hughes
an.. Howard, on a 'prior day of the present term of this court,
to wit, on Friday, the 25th day of January last past, to dismiss
this writ of error for the want of jurisdiction, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well in support of as against
the same, it is now here ordered by this court, that the said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

SAIUEL VEAZIE, COmPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. NATHANIEL L.
WILLIAMS AND STEPHEN WILLIAIS, DEFENDANTS.

Where false steps are taken to enhance the price of property sold at auction, a court
of equity will relieve the purchaser from the consequences and injury caused by
these unfair means.
Therefore, where the owners had instructed the auctioneer to take $14,500 for the
property, and the real bids stopped at $20,000, and the auctioneer, even without
the consent or knowledge of the owner, continued to make fictitious bids until he
ran it'up to $40,000, this was a fraud upon the purchaser,
These sham bids could not have been made by the auctioneer upon his own account. Even if they bad been so, it is very questionable whether they would have
been valid.
Being'the gbneral agent of the owners, the latter are responsible for his acts if they
receive the benefit of them. By-bidding or puffing by the owners, or caused by
or ratified by them, is a fraud, and avoids the sale.
The sale being made on the 1st of January, 1836, but the fraud not discovered until
1840, and the bill being filed in 1841, there is no sufficient objection to relief owing
to lapse of time.
A release given by the purchaser to the auctioneer, for the purpose of making him a
competent witness, did not operate as a bar to a recovery against the vendors.
le would have been a competent witness without it.
There was no necessity for making the auctioneer a defendant in the suit.
The various modes of relief examined.

THIS was an appeal from the, Circuit Court of the 'United
States for the District of Maine, itting as a court of equity.

-The complainant, Veazie, resided at Bangor, in the State of

