JANUARY TERM,

1850.

441

Sheldon et aL v. Sill.

THo.rus C. SHELDON AND ELEANOR SHELDON, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIADI E. SILL, APPELLEE.
Courts created by statute can have no jurisdiction but such as the statute confers.
Therefore, where the third article of the Constitution of the United States says that
the judicial power shall have cognizance over controversies between citizens of different States, but the act of Congress restrains the Circuit Courts from taking
cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of a chose in action brought by an
assignee, when the original bolder could .not have maintained the suit, this act of
Congress is not inconsistent with the Constitution.
A debt secured by bond and mortgage is a chose in action.
Therefore, where the mortgagor and mortgagee resided in the same State, and the
mortgagee assigned the mortgage to the citizen of another State, this assignee

could not file his bill for foreclosure in the Circuit Court of the UAited States.

TIis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Michigan, sitting in equity.
The appellee was the complainant in the court below. The.
bill was filed to procure satisfaction of a bond, executed by the
appellant, Thomas C. Sheldon, and secured by a mortgage on
lands in Michigan, executed by him and Eleanor his wife, the
other appellant. The bond and mortgage were dated on the
1st of November, 1838, and were given by the, appellants,
then, and ever since, citizens of the State of Michigan, to Eurotas P. Hastings, President of the Bank of Michigan, in trust
for the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank of
Michigan.
The said Hastings was then and ever since has been a citizen
of the State of Michigan, and the Bank of Michigan was a body
corporate in the same State.
On the 3d day of January, A. D. 1839, Hastings, President
of said ban:, under the authority and direction of the Board of
Directors, "sold, assigned, ind transferred, by deed duly executed under the seal of the bank, and under his own seal, the
said bond and mortgage, and the moneys secured thereby, and
the estate thereby created," to said Sill, the complainant below,
'who was then and still is a citizen of New York.
These are all the facts which it is necessary to state, for the
purpose of raising.the question of jurisdiction.
The Circuit Court decided in favor of the complainant below,
and decreed a sale of the mortgaged premises, &c.
From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Romeyn, for the appellants,
and Mr. Ashmun (in a printed argument), for the appellee.
Only so much of the arguments will be given as bear upon
the point- of jurisdiction.

SUPREME COUTRT.
Sheldon et al. v. Sill.
Mr. Rome/n, for the appellants.
The Circuit Court had no jurisdiction.
The complainant below claimed as assignee from a mortgagee, who was a citizen of the same State with the defendants,
the mortgagors.
A bond and mortgage, under the laws of the State of Michigan, and in every court of equity, and by the adjudications of
this court, on a bill filed to sell mortgaged property, foreclose
the equity of redemption, and collect the debt secured by the
mortgage, constitute a chose in action, within the intent and
meaning of the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Before stating the points under this, we beg leave to refer to
the case of Dundas et al. v. Bowler, 3 McLean, 205.
The
opinion in that case was repeated by the court as its opinion
in this. It asserts that the eleventh section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789 "is in conflict with the Constitution"; that the
xightLof a citizen of one State to sue the citizen of another
State-in the FederA courts, in all cases, is given directly by
the Constitution; that Congress may not restrict it; that the
converse is "a new and most dangerous principle, and cannot
'be maintained."
Points under this'Proposition.

'I.-The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
inhibiting a suit by an assignee of a chose in action, in cases
where the assignor could not have suied, if no assignment
had been made, is constitutional ; because, the disposal of the
judicial power, except in a few special cases, belongs to Congress; and the courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in every case
to which the judicial power extends, without the intervention
of Congress, 'Who are not bound to enlarge the jurisdiction of
the Federal courts to every subject which the Constitution
might warrant. So, again, it has been decided, that Congress
have not delegated the exercise of judicial power to the Circuit
Courts, but in certain specific cases. Both the Constitution
and an .act of Congress must concur in conferring power upon
the Circuit Courts.
A considerable portion of the judicial
power, placed dt, the disposal of Congress by the Constitution,
has been intentionally permitted, to lie dormant, by not being
-called into action by law. The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, giving-jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, has
not covered -the whole ground of the Constitution, and those
bourts cannot, for instance, issue a mandamus, but in those cases
in which it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction; for, -

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

443

Sheldon et a1 v. Sill.

1st. This is the settled, practical construction, which, irrespective of express adjudications on this topic, concludes the
question.
2d. The point itself has been repeatedly and fully discussed
and directly settled, on solemn deliberation, and not 11without
inquiry as to the validity of the act."
We propose to cite some authorities on these propositions, in
the above order; and then to notice the authorities cited in the
opinion below.
First. Cases as to practical construction and its effect,
(The counsel then cited a number of cases under ,this head.)
-Second. Cases to show that this principle has been deliberately settled.
The general principle for which we contefid is the necessity
of legislation to define and vest jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court. The opposing principle is, the right and duty of the
courts to exercise jurisdiction to the extent of the constitutional
limit, by virtue of its provisions and without the authority of
Congress. We refer to United States Bank v. Deveaux, 5
Cranch, 61; Osborne v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheaton,
738; 1 Wash. 235; 7 Cranch, 32; Ibid. 504; 3 Wheat. 336;
12 Pet. 616; also 623, 642; 14 Pet. 75; 2 Howard, 243.
In Turner v. Bank of America, 4 Dall. 8, the very question
arose, and was decided. Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 245; 1
Kent's Commentaries, 513.
(The counsel then reviewed the authorities cited to support
the opinion in Dundas v. Bowler, and contended that they did
not sustain it.)
II. The statute in question should be construed according
to the ordinary and usual acceptation of the terms used in it.
Because, 1st. It is constitutional.
2d. If unconstitutional, it should be entirely rejected.
If sustained at all, it should be subjected to the ordinary rules
of interpretation.
III. The phrase, CCother choses in action," includes the bond
and mortgage in this suit. Because, 1st. The statute was not intended to be confined to negotiable instruments, as is intimated in Dundas v. Bowler, 3 McLean, 209. For, First. If an instrument not negotiable be assigned, the assignee can sue in equity in his own name, and therefore the
reason given in Dundas v. Bowler is not sound.
Second. The exception, in the Judiciary Act, of foreign bills
of exchange, will leave nothing of consequence for this language to cover, if it be confined to negotiable instruments.

444

SUPREME COURT.
Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

Third. This comprehensive meaning of the clause is a matter of express decision, - decisions which have remained for
forty years unquestioned. In Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cranch, 332,.
Chief Justice Marshall decides that prbmissory notes were not
alone in the contemplation of Congress, and that the "intention
was to except from the jurisdiction those who could sue by
virtue of equitable assignments, as well as those who could do
" The term ' other chose
so by virtue of legal assignments."
in action,' is broad enough to include either case."
2d. The object of the statute was to preserve to the State
judicatures the interpretation and enforcement of. -contracts
made between their own citizens; and the general nature of a
bond and mortgage, and the fact that they affect the realty of
the State, render it particularly proper that they should not be
considered out of the statute.
3d. There is greater reason for inhibiting the collection of
mortgage debts in the United States courts, by an assignee, than
of negotiable instruments, because, in case of the latter, a transfer
for the purpose of jurisdiction would defeat the action; while
in the case of the former, if the assignment of a mortgage be
viewed as the transfer of a title, the consideration cannot be
made the subject of inquiry. Briggs v. French, 2 Sumner,
252; Smith v. Kernochen, 7 Howard, 216.
4th. The statute includes every such right as is ordinarily
termed a chose in action; by which is meant, not a right
which may be sued for, but one which can be realized only by
suit ; not a claim to property in, specie, which may, if opportunity offer, be exercised by caption or entry, but a right to a
debt, or damages, or money which can be recovered only by
action. 1 Chitty's R. 99.
A deed of land is not a chose in' action. A writer on the jus.
mariti, after informing his readers that the husband might dispose of his wife's choses in action, will hardly need to add that
this did not include her "deeds for real estate."
5th. The transferee of a bona and mortgage is usually termed an assignee, and therefore is within the act.
We ask an application of the old and familiar rule, that, when
words of a fixed legal impor.t are used in a statute, such meaning will be accorded to them in its construction. Chief Justice
Marshall applied it to the interpretation of this statute in 6
Cranch, 332, when, referring to the reason why the court, in
4 Cranch, held that an alien administrator might sue when the
intestate could not, he said, "The representatives of a deceased
person are not usually designated by the term assignee." So
Justice Story at the Circuit and' this Court, on several occa-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

445

Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

sions, in determining that the bearer of a promissory note could
sue when the payee could not, said that the plaintiff's title did
not rest upon what was generally and commonly known as an
assignment, and that the words of the statute were employed in
the ordinary popular professional sense.
6th. Even at law, the mortgage is considered but as a chose
in action, and the mortgagor is the real owner.
(The counsel then cited a number of cases to show how a
mortgage, even at law, is regarded by the English courts, by
American courts generally, and by the Federal courts.)
Douglas, 610; 1 Powell on Mortgages, 109, 110; 4 Kent,
159, 160; 2 Vernon, 401; 2 Jac. & Walk. 194, note; 4 Conn.
235, 424; 6 Conn. 158 to 164; 18 Johns. 114; 4 Kent's
Comm. 161, note a; 21 Wend. 483; 2 Gallison, 154; 5 Peters,'
483; 1 Paine, 534; 9 Wheat. 489.
7th. Whatever be the doctrine at law, in equity a mortgage
is styled and treated; in all its relations and for all purposes, as
a chose in action. 2 Jac. & Walk. 185; 1 Hopkins: 594; Story's Equity, § 1013, 1015, 1016.
8th. If it be conceded that the complainant might have
brought ejectment on the mortgage, it would not affect the
character of the action. For,First. This action can be fully sustained by an informal
transfer, or even a simple delivery of the mortgage, without
writing; while an ejectment would require a formal, regular
transfer, with the solemnity of other deeds of realty, in order
to pass the legal estate.
Second. That both proceedings grow out of the same transaction proves nothing; because there may. be two remedies for
one debt, in one of which the Federal court has jurisdiction,
and not in the other.
The indorsee of a note may sue on a direct promise to him
by the maker, when he could not sue as indorsee. 5 Howard,
278.
The assignment of the mortgage, without an assignment of
the debt, is a nullity. 2 Cowen, 23. While an assignment of
the debt carries with it the interest in the land. 2 Gall. 155.
In this case, an assignee of the bond alone could not sue on it in
this court. This proves that an assignment of the debt will
0
not confer jurisdiction.
If we grant that he could sue in ejectment at law as assignee
of the mortgage, the question would still remain, how should
he be viewed when suing in equity for his money, and not for
the land, and on both the bond and mortgage?
Finally, we ask particular attention to the effect upon the.
VOL. VIII.

38

446

SUPREME COURT.
Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

rights of the mortgagee produced by the statute of Michigan,
forbidding him to bring- ejectment before foreclosure and sale.
How emphatically does it reduce his claim to a chose in action.
. He has no longer a title, upon which he can even take possession; but, according to the oly substantial right ever intended
*to be secured, a claim for money, and the right to an appropriation of the land by suit to make it. And it is no answer to
this, that this law, taking away a remedy, does not bind the
Federal court. It is equally high evidence of the doctrines of
our State, in relation to the nature of the right of a mortgagee.
The argument of the counsel for the appellee upon the question of jurisdiction was as follows.
With regard to the first point, the objection is based upon
the act of Congress, which provides that the Circuit Court shall
not have cognizance'of any suit to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee,
unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such court to
recover said contents if no assignment had been made, except
in cases of a foreign bill of exchange.
The Constitution of the United States (sec. 2 of article 3)
says the judicial power shall extend to controversies between
citizens of different States, and, in section one of the same arti"cle, it says that this judicial power shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and such inferior courts as Congress shall from
time to time establish.
Now we would remark, first, that the case before the Circuit
Court was a controversy between citizens of different States,
and to such a controversy the judicial power of the courts of
the United States extends by the Constitution, and by the same
Constitution that power is vested, except where the Supreme
Court has original jurisdiction by the Constitution, in the inferior' dourts created by Congress. This judicial power, therefore, to take cognizance of this case, is, by the Constitution,
vested in the Circuit Court, and the plaintiff claims the constitutional right to have his controversy with Mr. Sheldon, living
in Michigan, decided by that court. . Congress has said, by the
provision above referred to, that there are certain controversies
between citizens of different States which the United States
courts shall not take cognizanch of; yet the judicial power of
the court extends to them :by the Constitution, and citizens of
the different States have the right to have that power exercised
in.their controversies. Where does Congress get the power or
authority to deprive the courts of the United States of the judicial power with which the Constitution has invested them?

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

447

Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

Congress may create the courts, but they are clothed with their
powers by the Constitution, and we submit that the provision
of the act of Congress materially conflicts with the provisions
of the Constitution, and is void. It has been settled, that an
act of Congress, enlarging the jurisdiction of the.Supreme Vourt
beyond the terms of the Constitution, is void. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137. Can it any more take away a constitutional power than it can confer an unconstitutional one? We
submit that it cannot. The jurisdiction-of this class of controversies is in the Circuit Court. The Constitution makes no
such distinction as the act of Congress does, and we respectfully submit, that it is of the utmost importance to citizens of the
different States that the whole judicial power granted by-the
Constitution to the courts of the United States should be exercised. We are aware that in some cases it has been assumed
that this act of Congress is valid ; but we submit that there has
been no decision, of this court to that effect, and even if there
had, being erroneous, the court would reverse it.
But a mortgage is not a promissory noie or chose in action,
within the meaning of the provisions of the act of Congress.
A mortgage is a conveyance of the fee simple of real estate, liable to be defeated subsequently by payment of money, to secure the payment of whibh it was made. It is in no sense a
chose in action, which is a thing in action, a right of action, a
thing recoverable in action, a debt, a demand, a promissory
note, a right to recover damages. A chose in action was originally a right of action not assignable at law. It was a cause
of suit for a debt due or a wrong. The bond with the mortgage may be a chose in action; but the estate conveyed by the
mortgage is not. It is a realty. It is real estate conveyed, and
at law the estate is absolute, forfeited, perfect. In equity it
may be redeemed; but the estate is nevertheless absolute, and
redemption is a matter of favor or equity rather than a legal
right. How does this partake of a chose in action ? Now what
is a foreclosure bill? It is not a suit upon a bond, but a proceeding in law against property, to cut off the equitable right
to redeem within a certain period, and to procure a sale of the
real estate. It is not a personal action, , seeks no decree against
the person, - but simply asks that certain property conveyed to
the plaintiff may be sold, and further right to redeem foreclosed.
An ejectment lies upon a mortgage, especially after forfeiture;
the mortgagee may convey the estate, and ejectment lies in favor of his grantee. Will it be said that his grantee, though
living in another State, could not maintain an ejectment in this
court .torecover the property? Cannot his grantee' equally ap-

448

SUPREME COURT.
Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

peal to this court to foreclose the equity to redeem? This point
'has been directly passed upon in the Circuit Court for the District
of Ohio, in the case of Dundas et al. v. Bowler and others, reported in the first volume of Western Law Journal, and the decision of the court is sustained by the soundest reasoning. 3
McLean, 205.
-Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The only qdiestion which it will be necessary to notice in
this base is, whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
Sill, the complainant below, a. citizen of New York, filed
his bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for Michigan,
against Sheldon, claiming to recover the amount of a bond and
mortgage, which had been assigned to him by Hastings, the
President of the Bank of Michigan,
Sheldon, in his answer, among other things, pleaded that
"the bond and mortgage in controversy, having been originally
given by a citizen of Michigan to another citizen of the same
State, and the complainant being assignee of them, the Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction."
The eleventh section of thb Judiciary Act, which defines the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, restrains them from taking
1cognizance of any suit to recover the content§ of any promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee,
unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the contents, if no assignment had been made, except in
cases of foreign bills of exchange."
The third article of the Constitution declares that "the judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and such inferior courts as the Congress may, from
The second section of the
time to time, ordain and establish."
same article enumerates the cases and controversies of which
the judicial power shall have cognizance, and, among others, it
specifies "controversies between citizens of different Slates."
It -has been alleged, that this restriction of the Judiciary Act,
with regard to assignees of choses in action, is in conflict with
this provision of the Constitution, and therefore void.
It must be admitted, that if the Constitution had ordained
and established the inferior courts, and distributed to them their
respective powers, they could hot be resfricted or divested by
Congress, But as it has made no such distribution, one, of two
consequences must result,- either that each inferior court created by Congress must exercise all the judicial powers not given to the Supreme Court, or that Congress; having the power
to establish the courts, must define their respective jurisdic-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

449

Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

tions. The fist of these inferences has never been asserted,
and could not be defended with any show of reason, and if
not, the latter would seem to follow as a necessary consequence. And it would seem to follow, also, that, having a
right to prescribe, Congress may withhold from any court of its
creation jurisdiction of any of the enumerated controversies.
Courts created by statute can have no jurisdiction but such as
the statute confers. No one of them can assert a just claim to
jurisdiction exclusively conferred on another, or withheld from
all.
The Constitution has defined the limits of the judicial power
of the United States, but has not prescribed how much of it
shall be exercised by the Circuit Court ; consequently, the statute which does prescribe the limits of their jurisdiction, cannot
be in conflict with the Constitution, unless it confers powers
not enumerated therein.
Such has been the doctrine held by this court since its first
establishment. To enumerate all the cases in which it has
been either directly advanced or tacitly assumed would be tedious and unnecessary.
In the case of Turner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 10,
it was contended, as in this case, that, as it was a controversy
between citizens of different States, the Constitution gave the
plaintiff a right to sue in the Circuit Court, notwithstanding he
was an assignee within the restriction of the eleventh section
of the Judiciary Act. But the court said, -" The political
truth is, that the disposal of the judicial power (except in a
few specified instances) belongs to Congress: and Congress is
not bound to enlarge the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to
every subject, in every form which the Constitution might warrant." This decision was made in 1799; since that time, the
same doctrine has been frequently asserted by this court, as
may be seen in McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 506; Kendall v.
United States, 12 Peters, 616; Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 245.
The only remaining inquiry is, whether the complainant in
this case is the assignee of a "chose in action," within the
meaning of the statute. The term "chose in action" is one
of comprehensive import. It includes the infinite variety of
contracts, covenants, and promises, which confer on one party
a right to recover a personal chattel or a sum of money from
another, by action.
It is true, a deed or title for land does not come within this
description. And it is true, also, that a mortgagee may avail
himself of his legal title to recover in ejectment, in a court of
law. Yet, even there, he is considered as having but a chattel
38*

450

SUPREME COURT.
Sheldon et al. v. Sill.

interest, while the mortgagor is treated as the true owner.
The land will descend to the heir of the mortgagor. His
widow will be entitled to dower. But on the death of the
mortgagee, the debt secured by the mortgage will be assets in
the hands of his executor, and although the technical legal estate may descend to his heir, it can be used only for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction of the debt. The heir will be
but a trustee for the executor.
In equity, the debt or bond is treated as the principal, and
the mortgage as the incident. It passes by the assignment or
transfer of the bond, and is Aischarged by its payment. It is,
in fact, but a special security, or lien on the property mortgaged.
The remedy obtained on it in a court of equity is not the
tecovery of land, but the satisfaction of the debt. It is the
pursuit by action of one debt on two instruments br securities,
the one general the other special. The decree is, that the
mortgaged premises be sold to pay the debt, and if insufficient
for that purpose, that the complainant have further remedy, by
execution, for the balance.
The complainant in this case is the purchaser and assignee
of a sum of money, a debt, a chose in action, not of a tract of
land. He seeks to recover by this action a debt assigned to
him. He is therefore the "assignee of a chose in action,"
within the letter and spirit of the act of Congress under consideration, and cannot support this action in the Circuit Court
of the United States, where his assignor could not.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed, for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, for the
want of jurisdiction in that court, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to dismiss the bill of complaint for the want of jurisdiction.

