JANUAR Y TERA,

1850.-

35

Clark. et-al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

Mississippi decided, that the holder, of can inland bill of exchangP drawn and accepted in that State was not entitled to
recover against thq indorser, unless the bill had, been rejulaily.
protested. far nop 7paymient. ,This decision was made before.
the- case of Bailey v-. Dozier, .reported in 6 Howard, 23, came
befoxe, this court. In that case the court heldupon full consideration of the question, that, under'the statute of Mississippi,
the holder of an.inland bill of exchange was entitled to recover
of an indorser the amount due on the bill, with interest, upon
giving the customary proof of default and notice; and that the
protest. was necessary;9nly for ,the purpose of enabling him to'
recover the five per cent., damages given by the act. The case
of Bailey v. Dozier must -govern this, and the judgment in the
Circuit Court is therefore reversed.
erda-.
.
-

This cause came-unto be-heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United -States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, qnd was argued by counsel. , On.consideration wherepf, it is now here ordered and, adjudged by this
court, that the judgment-of the said Circuit. Court in-this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that -this
cause be, and-the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to, ward a venrefacias de novo.

GREEN, AND HuGH McGILL, PLAINTIFFS IN,
Er.I CLARX, WILLwI
ER4R, .v. THE PRESIDENT, DIftECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE
AIANUF4AQTURERS', IN§SURANCE CoirrANY, DBFENDjINTS..
Where an action wa biught upon a policy of insurance against' fire,by the assignees of the person originally insured, and in the, policy it was said that it was,
"made and accepted upon the representation of the said assured, contained in hi%
application therefor, to which reference is ,to be had," it was, proper -to prove by
parol testimony that the repre entadons alleged to have been made by the party
originally insured were acttially made by him. "
And if the assignees, by their acts, adopted these representations, when renewing.
the policy from time to time, the evidence was equally admissible, because the
I
subsequent policies had referefice to the one first made.
Therefore, -where the represenjtion - upon. which the original policy was founded
was, that "the picker is inside"of the building, but no lamps used in the pickino.room,' it was a correct instruction to give to the jury, that the use of lanps in the
- picker-room rendered.the policy void.
But if no representatiQnswere Vade or asked,-it would not be the duty of the insured to make known the fact that lamps were used in the picker-room, although
the risk might have been thereby iusreased, unless th use of them. in that way
was

unusual..

-

-

-

-

-

-

Tis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit

236

SUPREME COURT.
Clark et al. v. M1anufacturers' Ins. Co.

Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
It was an action upon a policy of insurance against fire. The
plaintiffs in error, who were also plaintiffs below, resided at
Malone, in the county of Franklin and State of New York, and
the insurance company was at Boston, in Massachusetts.
The property insured was a cotton factory in Malone, owned
originally by Jonathan Stearns, who applied for insurance on
the 28th of April, 1834.
There were fifty questions asked by the insurance company,
and answered by Stearns. The thirty-fourth question and
answer were as follows "34. Is the picker inside the building? If within, state
where situated and how secured; if in a separate building, state
if the passage-way communicating with the factory is secuted
by an iron door at each end, or how otherwise secured."
in3& The picker is inside of the building, but no lamps used
in the picking-room; the doors are wood, and not covered."
The following was written in pencil at the close of the application by the agent at Pittsfield 1'The assured warrants that the waste shall be removed as
often as once in forty-eight hours to a safe distance from the
mill, and that the lamps in the carding-rooms shall be inclosed
in glass. (This condition is required.)"
A policy was issued to Stearns from July 1, 1834, for one
year, for $ 3,000,- on the factory building and fixtures, including water-wheel, drums, shafts, and gearing; $ 11,000 on the
movable machinery, and $ 1,000 on the stock in the various
stages of manufacturing.
On the 8th of July, 1834, Stearns assigned the policy to the
Ogdensburg Bank, to which the company assented.
On the 17th of June, 1835, the cashier wrote to Mr. Hall,
the agent of the insurance company, inclosing a check for
$263, and requesting a continuance of the policy for one year;
and in August, 1836, a similar letter, requesting a renewal or
continuance of the policy.
In August, 1837, the cashier of the bank inclosed a draft for
$263, and requested a new policy. One was accordingly
issued, containing the same clauses as the preceding.
On the 13th of August, 1838, Stearns informed Mr. Hall, the
agent, that the property insured had passed out of his hands
into those of the bank.
On the 25th of August, 1838, the cashier wrote to Mr. Hall,
requesting a continuance of the policy, but omitting the $1,000
on stock, as the mill was not then in operation.
In August, 1839 and 1840, similar letters were written. In
the policy issued in 1840, the following clause was inserted:

JANUARY TERM, 1850..

237

Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

"It is understood that the factory is not in operation, and that
the assured have liberty to put the saime in operation, agreeably
to the representation heretofore 'made by Jonathan Stearns."
Upon the receipt of this policy, the cashier returned the following answer.
"Ogdensburg BLank, August 27th, 1840.
"PARKEn L. HALL, Esq., Agent, 4c.
"Dear Sir, -Will you do me the favor to send me a copy
of the original survey and application, as made by Jonathan
Steams, at the time Steams effected an insurance on the cotton
fact ory, &c., at Malone, as I observe that the first policy made
out for us specifies ' agreeably to the representations heretofore
made by Jonathan Stearns.' This institution does not know
what those representations are, and as the factory is-soon to be
put in operation by Steams, we having leased the same to him
for one year, we wish you to send us a copy of the survey and
application, in order to have Steams act within those representations. "We also wish you to send us your abstract of having
the factory put in operation by Jonathan Stearns, under the
policy that will take effect on the 30th instant, for one year
from that time. If, on receipt of a copy of survey and application, it shall not be found sufficiently correct, you will be
notified, and we shall expect you will consent to have the policy
adapted to the corrected -application &(-. In. the policy Qf
1839 you say, 'contained in their* applkatiom! I am not
- aware that this institution has made any specific application,
and suppose you intended the one gven as to details by
Steams. Yours, &c.
"1Jom D. Iunsozr, Cashier."

The reply of the agent was as fellows:
"Piffseld, 31st August, 1840.
D. JUDSON, Esq., Casier.
"Dear Sir, - Herewith I inclose to you a renewed policy,
No. 622, on cotton. factory, &c.; I have inserted the clause
agreeably to your direction.
"Deai Sir,- I had deposited this letter in the post-office when
I received your favor of the 27th instant. The policy is made
out by inserting liberty of putting it in operation, as requested.
The original survey I have not. in my possession. It is in the
office at Boston. Perhaps Mr. Stearns may have kept a copy;
if so; you will be able to obtain it of him; if not, I may procure for you a copy at Boston.' You will, of course, see to it
that the waste is removed according to the warranty, and that
the lamps' be inclosed in glass. Respectfilly,
-

"JOHN

"P. L. HAL.kl

238

., U P R E,

E

"CO A T".

Clark,'et aL'v. Manufacturers' -ns/ Co.

It appeared that-the cashier tien wrote to Stearns for a copy
of his represeniation, but Stearns replied that he had none,. No
further, inqluiries were. made about it. '
In August, .1841, the cashier 'wrote to. the agent, saying "Pleasd send'me a new policy or a renewal receipt for the.continuance,of the same policy for one. ,year from 30th instant.
The' factory is now and has been in operation.the last year, under a lease to, Colonel Jonathah Stearns. His lease will ,xpire
soon, and whethex the banlk will lease it again is more.than I
Ican say at 'present ; but still we wish, the same .clatse in the new
policy that is in thepre sent one, viz. that we have the right to
put the mill in operation, &c., should we wish.",
A policy was issued according to the above request, contain*igamongst othei things the following :--"It is understood
that the mill is under'lease to Jonathan Stearns,, and mayagain
be leased to him or some other tenant, the assured being answerable for the warranty as above."
On the 18th of March, 1842, an indorsement was made upon
the policy, that the assured had made a contract of sale, and
given possession of the.property to Eli Claik, William Green,
and Hugh McGill, to which the approbation of the -company
was requested ; which .was given, by Mr. Hall.
On the'l9th of August, 1842, the cashier wrote again for
continuance of policy No. 704 P, and requested a new policy
to be inade out in the names of Clark, Green, and McGill; in
case of loss, the money to be paid to the bank. The policy was
issued accordingly, containing the same clauses as before, with
this remark added --"
This policy is 'issued upon the representation formerly made by Jonathan Stearns, the former owner,
which representation is binding on the assured."
In August, 1843, 1844, and 1845, similar letters were written
by the cashier, ,and.similar policies issued, except that the last
remark above quoted was not attached to them.
In March, 1846, the property, was desiroyed by fire, and soonafterwards notice thereof given to the company.
In October, 1846, the insured brought an action of assumpsit
against the company, counting on the policy, and also containing, the 'common money counts; under which a judgment was
obtained for, a return 'of premiums, to the amount of $ 1,200.
, In October, 1847, the case came up for trial, upon a plea of
non assumpsit and issue. The plaintiffs offered in evidence
the policy, the contract between the bank and Clark, Green,
and McGill, and the payment 'of, part of the purchase-money
by the latter.
The plaintiffs also proved the loss of the property by fire, no-

JAN UAit.
Clark"'

239 ?

T i'MI 'I 5O23

af v. Manuf~cttirer6s' Ins. Co.

tice 6f t; e'1oslhat te waste'v4as removed, and that the lamps'
id the prid"g rom were inclosed in glass, as required by the
policy. 'EE
y

p

trt

thin' was ' r6ed :or hdmitted that was neces-

a

m

frr cie case for ihe plaintiffs.

.

The evidence showed, likewvise,'that the fire originated in the:

%iclfgo..0i,
which' was situated in the centre of the building,"
a~d ii
ich a'glass lanp was frequently suspended -from the
cgiling,ind'into Which room, a glass' lantern was carried that
evening, and placed by the workman on thevwindow-sill while'
thepicke 4ra iii operation ; around the top of this lantern he
fist saw the"ight 'and fire, as if the cotton-dqst had become
ignited through the air-holes, and the fire ws coiihmunicatdd"

wfih such rapidityto the-whole cotton he 'was unable to extinguish it. The evidence showed further, that ien the picking-'
robi had beipn occasionally used to work in during the"nightthe"this lantern, or o-e like it; had for three yeArs been 'carripel'in, and thdit'the'globe lazmp had been long used there susp'6rided; xithi a refiector over the top, atid'was lighted when

thoey orked'at night in the picking-room, as well as the Ian-,
tern. This appears to have been the practice soon after 1834
or' l35,bt. in&evidence was offered that 'it had bedh before.
When tie phbintiffs bought the -property in 1842, they found
the 1hamp
hung and ready for use, and they continued to use it
as it had been Vsed before. ,
' he tefendants then offered in, eVideice the application of
Stearns for insurance, his'written answers to the'fifty questions,
aid the ppoicis and letters above mentioned.
.The defendahts -then called Parker -L. Hall, Who 'testified
that, prior to the:fitst policy t6 Stearns, he was agent bf the de-

fendants 'in ittsfield, ind that his authority did 'n6t extend to
the-taking-of new risks on this species of property.,
,,.It was admitted that such a use of lamps in the .picker-room"
a appeared i 'this§ case, enhanced the danger of fire, and was
mnaterial to tfie ris.'k
T6;th'adjriision of all this 'evidence the counsel fdr the
plainiiffs theft knd there bjected, on the ground that the policy
contained no representations- made by Jonathan Stearfis, and
had no reference whatever to any such reproge'ntations, and thai
to admit extri isic evidence of the represenitations of the said
Steams, and '&ier extrinsic 'evidence 'to 'connect 'the plaintiffs
with tho'se repie~entaions, and thus affect their rights by such
representati6ns, 'w not only to vary bnlarge, or niiodify the
contract, as 6ohtained in the policy, but 'was in fat to set'up
and show,-byexfrihnsie evidence,' a distinct and different contract fron that'contained in the ]iolicy, and of which the policy

-240

SUPREME COURT.
Clark et,al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

is the written evidence on which the parties relied; and, as the
printed clause in the policy referred only to representations of
the assured, representations in form by.the assured were the only representations which could legally be shown, and evidence
that the parties did not mean the representations in form by the
assured, or expressed in the policy, but meant representations of
Stearns, was not admissible, because that would clearly be to
enlarge or change the contract in the policy, or rather to set up
a distinct and different contract.
But the court admitted all the evidence as proper and legal,
and to this ruling and decision of the court the counsel for the
plaintiffs excepted.
The plaintiffs also proved that it was customary for-these defendants, and other insurance companies in Boston, to issue policies on property, with which the underwriters were acquainted,
in ,the printed form, like that in this case, with the clause referring to the "representation of the assured, contained in their
application, to which reference is to be had," where no written
application has in fact been made by the assured, and where
there is no'written representation to which reference. can be
had. The counsel for the defendants objected to the admissibility- of the evidence by which these facts were proved.
The counsel for the plaintiffs requested the honorable justice
who presided at the trial to instruct the jury,1. That whether the printed clause in the policy -"that
this policy being made and accepted upon the representation of
the said assured, contained in their *application therefor (to
which reference is to be had) "-was to be taken as referring
to the representation of Steams, in 1834, was matter of law to
be determined by the -court, the construction and application of
written contracts and instruments being wholly within the province of the court.
2. That, in"
the opinion of the court, the said clause was not
to be taken as referring to the said representation of the said
Stearns; that these representations are hot to be taken as a part
of the said policy, or as in any way binding on the plaintiffs,
whose right to recover in this case could not be in any way affected by said representation.
3. That the evidence introduced by the defendants was not
sufficient in law to bar-the plaintiffs' right to recover.
But the honorable justice declined giving these instructions
to the jury, and instructed them that they would be warranted
in finding that the plaintiffs had adopted the representations
made by Jonathan Stearnsas a part of this policy; that, if
those representations were adopted by the plaintiffs, they formed

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

241

Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

a part of the present policy in the same manner as if incorporated into it, and the use of lamps in the picker-room, in the
manner testified to, in violation of these representations, rendered the policy void, and. the plaintiffs would not be entitled
to recover, except for a return of the premiums paid for the last
four years. And the jury were further instructed, that if they
found the policy declared on did not refer to the said representations of Stearns, and that no representation was in fact made or
adopted by the plaintiffs. respecting the use of lamps in the
picker-room, they would then take the law to be, that, as it
was agreed by the parties that the use of lamps in the pickerroom in the manner found was material to the risk, it was the
duty of the plaintiffs to disclose the fact of such use to the defendants, or their agent, when the policy was applied fori provided such use then existed, and ras known to the plaintiffs
and unknown to the defendants, and was then intended by the
plaintiffs to b&, and in fact was, continued after the policy was
issued, and occasioned the loss in question; and that each failtire of the plaintiffs, even, without any fraudulent intent on
their part, to make this fact known to the defendants, would
avoid the policy. Thereupon the jury returned a verdict for
the plaintiffs, for a return of four years' premium.
To these instructions, and to the said refusal to instruct, as
well .as to the admission of the said evidence, the plaintiffs then
and there excepted; and prayed that their exceptions might be
allowed and sealed by the said justice, and the same were allowed and sealed accordingly.
-In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
A. D. 1847.
my seal, this 10th day of November,
Sr.
LEvi
Wo6DBuJY,

Associate Justice Supreme Court U. S.
Upon these exceptions the case came up to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Gillet, for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Curtis and Mr. D. A. Hall,for the
defendants in error.
It is only possible to give a brief sketch of the points taken
respectively by the counsel.
Mr. Gullet, for plaintiffs in error.
The first question presented by the record for the consideration of the court is, whether the evidence offered by the defendants was legally admissible.
The policy of insurance which is the foundation of this action is in the ordinary form, most of it being in print, and is
VOL. Vill.

21

242

'SUPREME

COURT.

Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.-

plain, unambiguous, and complete in itself. It is susceptible
of 'but one construction, and is as definite as any contract can
be made. The defendints, for the purpose of, defeating our
claim upon it, were all6wed to introduce twenty-eight.distinct
pieces of evidence, with the view of ta6kitng to the contract
certain representations made by a former o~ner of the property, more than eleven years previous to itsCate. What the object of'this evidence was appears from thfiha rge of the learned judge who tried the caufse. , -He instructed, the jufy, "that
they would' b6 Warranted in finding that 'the plaintiffs had
'adopted the representations made by Jondithan'Stearns as a part
of this policy ;'!hat'if ihose rejpresentagtions'were adopted by the
plaintiffs, they formed a part of the presehipolicy, in the, same
manner as if incbrporated into it." - Thus the jury were left to
decide, as a question of fact, whether- the represetaiioils, of
Stearns were'defunct and obsolete, or a living meniber- 6f the
defendants' cont'rfiati bf'insurance. "An'd fhsa
perfect-Written
contract was nullified and destroyed by a 'mass of parol evi'dende of facts,, which occurred mostly betiveen oth'er parties,
'long prior to it' execution.
The*geneiral principles of law excluding parol 'evidende when
offered to -vary, add to, or inoify written contracts, gd "laid
down in 1 Greenleaf onEridence, part 2,'ch. 15, where"many
cases- are also collected.
The case' or Miller v. Travers, 8
Bingham, 244, is strongly' m point. This rule has always been
applied in z.&ses on policies of ipsurance, and often when it op-

eraied with great hardhliip.

It ws-so applied in Firnxey v.

Bedford Commercial Ins. Co., 8 Metcalf '348; Bryant v. 0Qceah
Ins. Co.', 22 Pik. 200; Alston v. Mecharics'M.' Ins. C6, 4
Hill, 329;' New York Ins. Co. v. Thomas; B lohns. Cas.-.Y;
.Higginson'v. Dall, 13 Mass. 96; Dow v. Whetten et al., 8
Wend. 160; Cheriot v. Barker, 2"Johns. 346; Jennings v. Chenango Ins. Co., 2 Denio, 75; and rigidly and harshly was it adhered to in, Ewer v. Washington Ins' Co:., 16 Pick: '502: -r.
Duer, in the first volume of his Treati~e' odln'irnce, y. 71,
says, the policy from the- tinie of its execifthin c6nstitutesthFe
sole evidence of .the agreement.of the parties, and " that io'pr vious letters or- communications- b'twe'uT'hem,' not 'everA the
written application or agreement, can be use.t''o vait'yor c-'n6fol
its interpretation. Now, according to this rule, if the parties
had agreed in writing to be bound by Stexrfl representations,
and the fact had been onjitted in 'the"' polidy, it ciuldn6t be
proved by reference to the'pnior written' agreement: II. The next question to be discussed iSthe-effect'of te:ev-idence, supposing'it adrfiissible. ' (The, counsel theii'ori ented upon the different'te'ms i the p6licies.) ''
'"

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

243

Clark et al. v. M4nufacturers' Ins. C9.

Each policy was d separate and distinct contract.., Neither
could be modified by another. If the defendants intended to
make the last policy like that of 1842, by binding the plaintiffs
to the representations of Stearns, and omitted it by mistake,
such mistake cannot be corrected on the law side of the..court.
Nbr would this court, sitting in equity, modify the policy by
inserting Stearns's representations in it. If the omission of all
reference to Stearns in this policy wasat the request of the
plaintiffs, such omission forms a part of the contract; if it was
the voluntary act of the defendants, they are bound by it; and
if it was done by their mistake, the plaintiffs aie, not responsible for the results of their slovenly mode of doing business.
Andrews v. Essex F. and M. Ins. Co., 3 Mason, 6.; Hogan v.
'Delaware Ins. Co., iWash. C. C. 419; 1 Duer on Ins. 132,
note xi. ; Graves v. Bostori'Marine Ins. Co., 2 Cranch, 419.
III. The representations of Stearns form no part of this policy, because they are not incorporated into it, nor are they in
any way referred to in the policy as forming a part of it. Jefferson Ins. Co. v. Cotheal, 7 Wend. 72; Snyder v. Farmers'
Ins. and- Loan Co., 13 Wend. 92; Farmers' ins. and Loan Co.
v. Snyder, 16 Wend. 481; 3- Kent's Com. 373; Alston v. Me'chanics' Mutual Ins. Co., 4 Hill, 329., In the case of Houghton 'v. Manufacturers' Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 8 Metcalf, 114, it
was'held that the representations of the assured were legally
adoptbd and embodied into the policy as a part of the contract.
But in that case' the representations we're annexed to the poli"cy, and the court say, that "the policy, by the manner in which
it refers to the application and representdtions, does legally
adopt andc embody them as a part of the contract." But in. this
case there is no reference whatever in the policy t6 Stearns's
representations.
IV. There being no written agreement by the 'plaintiffs to
adopt'Stearns's representations, it was only a verbal promise to
make them good. BUt this is contrary to 4 Hill, 329 and 22
Pick, 200.
V. There was error i. the last instruction of the court to the
jury.
The counsel for the defendants in error argued in support.of
"the following points:1st. That the iisured had, made certain representations,
rhich were to be.'deerued part of the' confract, and *hich.be"ing false, and the loss occurring by means of their falsehood,
no recovery could be had.
. ..
wn, to the underwrit2d. .That the insured failed. to^mA
.kJ
e

244

SUPREME COURT.
Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

ers, when the policy was obtained, a fact material to the risk,
known to the assured and unknown to the underwriters, and
which was the Cause. of the loss, and therefore the policy was
void.
I The first proposition was subdivided into the following
three branches: -1. That the plaintiffs, by accepting the policy of August,
1842, made Stearns's representation their own, so that it might.
be, and in fact was, afterwards- correctly described in the renewal policy declared on- as the representation of the assured.
2. That by applying for a continuance of the policy, which
was based solely on these representations, they did, in legal effect, adopt these representations into, and make them a part of,.
their application; so that. it might be, and in fact was, correctly
said in. such renewal policy, that the representation was contained in the application.
3. That it clearly appearing, by the policy itself, that the
original policy to the plaintiffs was issued upon the representation of Stearns, which thereafter was to be binding on the
plaintiffs, and was referred to therein as the representation of.
the assured, and that the subsequent policies, including the one
declared on, were merely continuations of that contract; and it
further appearing that no representation was ever made except
the one made by Steams, and that therefore this important
clause in the policy could refer to no other, and is senseless and
void unless it refers to that; the jury were rightly instructed
that they would be warranted in finding that the plaintiffs had
adopted the representation of Stearns as a part of this policy.
It may be, that, upon the actual posture of the evidence, it was
not a question for the jury, because there was no fact in controversy; but this is wholly immaterial if the jury have found,
under the instructions of the court, a verdict, right in point of
law; the only difference being that they were instructed they
might so find, instead of being told they must so find.
I. Upon the second ground of defence. This seems too
clear to require much ixgument. The case in this aspect is,
-that the assured make, no disclosure respecting the fact that
lamps were used in the picker-room; that such use was a fact
material to the risk; that such use then existed, and was known
to the plaintiffs and unknown to the defendants, and was then
intended by the plaintiffs to be,and in fact was, continued after the policy was issued, and that it occasioned the loss. A
policy made under such circumstances is void. It is not necessary to show that a contract of sale, or any other contract,
would be void for a similar cause. It is enough that a contract

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Clark et al. v.

245

ranufacturers' Ins. Co.

of insurance is thus avoided. 1 Wash. 161; 1 Phil. on Ins.
214; 2 Duer, 380, 506; 6 Cranch, 279, 338; 1 Pet. 185; 2 Pet.
25, 49; 10 Pet. 507, 512; 16 Pet. 496.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original action in 'this case was assumpsit by the plaintiffs in error on apolicy of insurance, made August 13, 1845.
From the detailed statement of the facts, it will be seen that
the loss occurred on the 13th of March, 1846, and was to be
paid to the Ogdensburg Bank, which held the title to the property insured, but was under a contract in a certain event to
convey it to the plaintiffs, they hqving already paid for it in
part.
The original insurance was made in 1834, by Jonathan
Stearns, who had mortgaged to the bank the factory insured,
and who continued most of the time till the loss to conduct
its operations under insurances renewed yearly, often in different names, - stipulating that any loss should be paid to the
-bank.
In April, 1834, when application was first made for insurance, the defendants, doing business in Boston (Mass.), put numerous written interrogatories to Stearns, who lived in Malone
(New York), where the factory was situated, and to one of
them he replied, that no lamps were "used. in the pickingroom." These interrogatories, and the answers to them, were
not annexed to the policy, but were put on file in the office;
and the policy purported to have been "made and accepted
upon the representation of the said assured, contained in his
application therefor, to which reference is to be had," &c., &c.
No new representations appear to have been made at the different renewals, but only a general reference to representations,
like that just named; and in three or four instances, when the
policy was in a new name, a specific statement was inserted
that the insurance was entered into "agreeably to the representations heretofore made by Jonathan Stearns."
Refeiring to the record and preliminary statement of this
case for other details, the plaintiff objected first to the competency of parol evidence, which was offered to prove that the
representations signed by Stearns, and on file wit this application, were those made by him, and to the instruction of the
court, that, if they were adopted by the plaintiffs, the present
pnlicy as well as the original one must be considered as foundd on them and void, if they were not true.
It will be proper, then, to consider first whether this parol evidence was competent for the purpose for which it was offered.
21*

ST)PRFtME COURT.
Clark et al: 'v:
"M-ainfacturers' Ihs. Go:

-:Without ineninig to 'impugn the 'great el6mentary'priciple'f,
that vriften-instrunnts are not to" be-varied: .or contradjctpd
by parol, it suffices to say here that this testimony-was not admitted to vary or contradict any portion ofwhat had been written. *-See Phillips v. Prestbn, 5 Howard, 291:
It erely went to identify What, the writing in the policy referredjfo,'as a part or pdrcel" of the' contract, like'a referehce in
One deed or contract to A'nother"deed or contract. 13 W*"ldell,
92; -Jennings: v. 'Chenan-6 Ins. do.;- 2 Denio, 82;' Phillips on
Ins. 47'; -16 Pick. -502; 1D.& E."343-; 2 Biod. & Bingh. 553;
4 Russ. 540; 20 Pick. 121; 1 Paige,' 291 ; 8' Metcalf, 1-14,
350; 4 Howard,'353; '3Varn. & Aid.' 299; Wigram ofiVxt.
Ev. 54, 55; 1 Hen. BL. 254; 2 Hen. B1. 577; 6 D.& E. 710;
'
I Drier onlIns. 71'.
It added to what'was-written nothing, it subtracted noihing,
itvchanged-nothing, and we -thini its admission was legal. , "
In -the -next. place, the- initiuction that the, plaintiffs 'were
bound-'by those representations; if' adoptitig them subsequntldy'.
at the time of making their insurance, accorded with both the
law and- equity.'of the transaction. "If they adopted them 6nd
induced the defen'dants.to act on' thlem it would operate fraudflently to let'them be- disavoweid aftrl iltdss. -Soif' th0e.1alnS-'
tiffs ratified them, in their subsequent ipplication,
&therrepresentations -were-made or Teli'c on except thqse, if iheir
attention was alled to,these: -if th6 batik'was a-party in inter-'
est through -all these 'insurances,'" without reptidiating tiese'
representations, and' if these were" he 6nly-set of representations
used-in all of therfi, it surely- ifitist comport with justice; as'
well as-law, 'to'have them govern. '-The cases of like subse4ueiit-adOptions and. ratification's"of
what had-been done before by other' are very numerous.
Among them -seethose collected in Story on Agency, § 252'
253.- Even "slight circumstances aid small matters'Willsometimes suffice to raise the presumption of a ratification.".
Ward v. Evans, 2 Ld. Raym. 928-; 3 Wash. C. 0. 151 ' 13
Wend 114; 3 Ohitty Com.'- . 197.
'
view of the case' standiig one, wvouild entitle thede-.
fendarits to.be. disdharged, for the' picking-room, contrary' to .
these r epresentations, had - lamp, and indoed lamps, 'in it; iind
their use-was proed to' bie the cause of the fire whi6h destrod
the'factory.
" ,
- I"
d
We 'should, therefore, affirm the judgment below without
further inquiry, did not the -bill of exchptions disclose anoter
ruling, 'which', as the iec~rd 'now stands, requires consideratidn
Whei'the judgrment' below is, as here, well sustained b he;
-if~no

'

-This

-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

247

Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

opinion entertained. on a decisive point, it is usually of no consequence whether another point was correctly ruled or not.
But as the bill of exceptions in this case was drawn 'up by the
plaintiffs, it states that the jury were instructed to find a verdict for the defendants on the last ground, if on the facts the
first one failed; and hence, looking to the record, the -last
ground may have been passed on by the jury, and have influenced their verdict. To be sure, the report of this case below
(in 2 Woodb. & Min. 472) shows that a verdict was taken by
agreement of parties, or onlyproforma, in order to bring the
questions of law to the Supreme Court; and therefore, that no
jury could in truth in this case have been thus influenced or
misled. Yet this fact not appearing on the record brought
here, the case, till revised and corrected below in this particular, must be considered as if the jury had actually examined
both grounds, and had really decided upon them. But even on
that hypothesis, if the second point was properly ruled, no occasion would exist for sending the case back for correction in
the statement as to the verdict, in connection with the first
point.
Wltether it was properly ruled or not involves a question of
much novelty, being in one aspect of it a case, perhaps, of the
first impression, and without any precedent to govern us, and
is of so much importance in insurances as to deserve great caution in settling it. From the report of the case below, before
referred to, the Circuit Court, though alluding to the last point,
do not appear to have gone into any critical discussion and
opinion on it.
But the bill of exceptions being so drawn up as to exhibit a
positive instruction given on it by that court to the jury, it is
necessary for us to examine with care whether an instruction
like that presented here could legally be given.
First, then, what is the substance of that supposed instruc-.
tion ?
It is, that if no representations were made or adopted by the
plaintiffs, they would not be entitled to recover, if lamps were
in truth used in the picking-room, which were conceded' t6 be
material to the risk, and this use was known to the lplaintiffs
and not to the defendants, and this use was meant to be continued, and was continued, and caused the present loss. In the
next place, what must be considered the law in relation to this
subject ? Little doubt exists, that, when representations are
made or adopted, the denial in them of a material fact, such as
here, that any lamp was used in the picking-room, where one
or more was in truth used, makes the policy void, not only

SUPREMAIE

COURT.

--Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

for misrepresentation, but misdescription and concealment. 1
Marshall on Ins. 481; Ellis on Fire and Life Ins. 58; Dobsen
v. Sotheby, 1 Moody & Malk. 90; 6 Cowen, 673; 4 Mass.
337.

-

A false representation avoids the policy, because it either misleads or defrauds. Livingston et al. v. Mar. Ins. Co., 7 Cranch,
332.
In such a state of things, also, the insured -knowing
that
he is asked for representations to enable the underwriter to decide properly whether he will insure at all, and if so, at what
premium- must suppress nothing material to the ri~k, or the
underwriter will not stand on equal grounds with himself, aid
will be forced to act in the dark more than himself, and probably to misjudge. 1 Mlarshall on ins. 473, 474, note; Lynch
v. Dunsford, 14 East, 494; Maryland Ins. Co. v. Ruden's Ad.,
6 Cranch, 338, and Livingston v. Mar. Ins. Co., Ibid. 279
Columbian Ins. Co. v. Lawrence; 10 Peters, 516; McLanahan
v. Universal Ins. Co., I Peters, 185; 2 Peters, 59; 2 Duer, 388,
379, 411 ; 2 Caines, 57; 1 Wash. C. C. 162.
Concealment thus would operate in some cases as a fraud,
and. in all will make the risk very different from what the insurer knew and agreed to. 3 Burr. 1905; Ellis on Fire and
Life Ins., 38.
But the hypothetical position presented by this record is that
the law would be the same, provided no representations whatever were' made, and in this form it does not,, in the-state of
facts exhibited in the record, meet with the sanction of this
court. The chief controversy appears to have been. concerning
the first point; and when this last question was made a part of
the case by agreement of counsel, it was not known whether
this court would consider the original representations by Stearns"
as adopted, and thus binding on those subsequently insured.
Independent. of those, none appear to have been made or asked.
• RepreSentations, however, in insurances, it is well • known,
almost invariably* exist, either written or parol. Columbian
Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 2 Peters, 49; S. C., 10 Peters, 515. But.
they are not usually named 6r incorporated in the policy, exce.pt- on the continent of Europe.' 3 Kent, 237; -9 Barn.- &
Cress..693.
"It is fair to presume, that they took 'place in all the' reported cases on insurance, though often not named, unless the contrary
is' expressly stated, as they are in general "the principal inducements to. contract, and furnish the best grounds upon which
the premium can be calculated." (1 Marsh. on Ins. 450.)
But the relation 6f the parties seems entirely changed, if the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

249

Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

insurer asks no information and the insured makes no representations. That is the chief novelty in this question, as hypothetically stated in the bill of exceptions. We think that the
governing test on it must be this, -it must be presumed that
the insurer has in person or by agent in such a case obtained
all the information desired as to the premises insured, or ventures to take the risk without it, and that the insured, being
asked nothing, has a right to presume that nothing on the risk
is desired from him.
This rule must not be misapprehended and supposed to rest
on a principle different and somewhat ordinary, that insurers
are always to be expected to possess some general knowledge
of such matters as they deal with, independent of inquiries to
the assured. 8 Peters, 582.
Nor on the position well settled, that the insurer must be
presumed to know what is material'in the course of any particular trade, -its usages at home and abroad, and those transactions which are public, and equally open to the knowledge of
both parties. Hazard's Ad. v. New England Mar, Ins. Co., 8
Peters, 557; 2 Duer on Ins. 379, 478; 3 Kent's Com. 285,
286.; Green v. Merchants' Ins. Co., 10 Pick. 402; 4 Mason,
C. C. 439; Buck et al. v. Chesapeake Ins. Co., 1 Peters, 160.
Nor on any special usage proved, as in Long v. Duff, 2 Bos. &
Pul. 210, that it was, in a case like this, the duty of "1the underwriter to obtain this information for himself."
But when representations are not asked or given, and with
only this general knowledge the insurer chooses to assume the
risk, he must in point of law be deemed to do it at his peril..
It has been justly remarked, in a case somewhat like this in
principle, -" With this knowledge, and without asking a question, the defendant underwrote; and by so doing he took the
knowledge of the state of the place upon himself," &c. 1 Marshall on Ins. 481, 482; Carter v. Boehm, 3 Burr. 1905.
In cases of fire insurance, also, the underwriters may be considered as more likely tc do this than in marine insurance; because the subject insured is usually situated on land and nearer,
so as to be examined easier by them or their agents; and the
circumstances connected with it are more uniform and better
known to all. 1 Har. & Gill, 295; Burrit v. Saratoga M. F.
Ins. Co., 5 Hill, 192.
It is true, that, from what is reasonable and just, some exceptions must exist to this general rule, though none of them are
believed to cover the present case. Thus the insurer must be
supposed, if no special information has been asked or obtained,
to take the risk, on the hypothesis that nothing unusual exists

250

SUPREME COURT.
Clark et al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

enhancing the risk; and hence, as in this case, if lamps are
used in the picking-room, which do enhance it, he must show
that their use in the manner practised was unusual or not customary, and then, though no representations had been asked or
made, he would make out a case, where it was the duty of the
insured to inform him of the fact, and where suppressio veri
would be as improper and injurious as suggestio falsi. Livingston v. Mar. Ins. Co., 6 Cranch, 281.
So if any extrinsic peril existed, outside and near a building
insured, and which increased the risk, the insured should communicate that, though not requested. Bufe v. Turner, 6 Taunt.
338; Walden v. Lou. Ins. Co., 12 Louis. 134. But as to the
ordinary risks connected with the property insured, if no representations whatever are asked or given, the insurer must, as before remarked, be supposed to assume them; and, if he acts
without inquiry anywhere concerning them, seems quite as
negligent as the insured, who -is silent when not requested to,
speak. The conclusions on the whole case then are, that the
defendants are entitled to be discharged on the first ground
upon the merits; because the plaintiffs were interrogated in
writing on this very fact and risk, or others were, whose answers they adopted; and the truth was not disclosed in their
iepresentations in reply, when it is conceded to have beei material to the risk; and therefore, by the express stipulations of
this policy, as well as by ti.e general principles of the law of
insurance, the plaintiffs should not recover. But our judgment
cannot be rendered on this conclusion, standing alone, because
the second point is connected with it in the form before explained. Again, the defendants would be. entitled to be discharged under the second point on the ground, which accords
with the truth here, that representations were really made on
this subject; but not, if none whatever were made, according
to what is hypothetically suggested in the record. The judgment below must, therefore, be reversed, for the purpose of corjrecting what is defective in the manner of stating how the
verdict was taken and how the last question stood by itself on
the facts proved; and the case must be remanded to the court
below, with instructions to take all proper steps to carry into
effect the views presented in this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

251

Lord v. Veazie.

court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, witli costs, for the purposes of correcting what is defective in the manner of stating
how the verdict was taken, and how the last question stood by
itself on the facts proved, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

IR1,
NATHANIEL LoRD, PLAINTIFF IN
DEFENDANT.

V.

JOHN A.

VEAZIE,

Where it appears to this court, from affidavits and other evidence filed by persons
not parties to a suit, that there is no real dispute between the plaintiff and defendint in the suit, but, on the contrary, that their interest is one and the same,
and is adverse to the interests of the parties who filed the affidavits, the judg.
ment of the Circuit Court entered pro forma is a nullity and void, and no writ of
error will lie upon it. It must, therefore, be dismissed.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maine.
A motion was made by Mr. Moor, upon his own account
and also as counsel for the City Bank, at Boston, to dismiss
the appeal, upon the ground that it was a fictitious case, got
up between said parties for the purpose of settling legal questions upon which he, the said Moor and the City Bank, had
a large amount of property depending. The motion made by
Mr. Moor upon his individual account was to dismiss the appeal; that made by him as counsel for the City Bank was in
the alternative, either to dismiss the suit, or order the same
back to the Circuit Court for trial, and allow the said City
Bank to be heard in the trial of the same.
It appeared upon the documents and affidavits filed, that, in
1842, the Bangor and Piscataquis Canal and Railroad Company,
in the State of Maine, which had been chartered by the, State,
executed a deed to the City Bank, at Boston, by virtue of
which that bank claimed to hold the entire property of the
company.
In 1846, the Legislature of Maine granted to William Moor
and Daniel Moor, Jun., their associates and assigns, the sole
right of navigating the Penobscot River.
In July, 1847, an act was passed additional to the charter of
the first-named company, by virtue of which a reorganization
took place. The City Bank claimed to be the sole proprietors

