JANUARY TERM, 1850.

495

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

CHARLES A. WILLIAxSON AND CATHARINE, HIS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS,
v. JOSEPH BERRY
Mary Clarke devised to Benjamin Moore and Charity, his wife, and Elizabeth
Maunsell, and their heirs for ever, as joint tenants, and not as tenants in common,
"all that part of my said farm at Greenwich aforesaid, called. Chelsea, &c., to have
and to hold the said hereby devised premises to the said Benjamin Moore and
Charity; his wife, and Elizabeth Maunsell, and to the survivor or survivors of
them, and to the heirs of such survivor, as joint tenants and not as tenants in
common, in trust, to receive the rents, issues, and profits thereof, and to pay the
same to Thomas B. Clarke, &c., during his natural life, and from and after the
death of Thomas B. Clarke, in further trust, to convey the same in fee to the
lawful issue of the said Thomas B. Clarke, living at his death." Under this devise,
the firstborn child of Thomas B. Clarke, at its birth, took a vested estate in remainder, which opened to let in his other children to the like estate, as they were
successively born, and such vested remainder became a fee simple absolute in the
children living, on the death of their father.
The acts of the Legislature of New York passed for the relief of'Thomas B. Clarke
show that he was made the trustee of the property devised, to sell or mortgage a
part of it, with the assent or appointment of the Chancellor.
His obligation was to account annually for the proceeds of every sale or mortgage
which might be made, and it was his right to ;se the interest of the principal for
himself and for the education and maintenance of his children.
The acts of the Legislature discharged the trustees named in the devise, whatever
may have been their estate in the land under it, but did not vest axi estate in fee
in Thomas B. Clarke. .
The acts of the Legislature for the relief of Clarke are private acts. They provide
that the Chancellor may act upon them summarily, upon the petition of Clarke,
upon which orders are given, as contradistinguished from decrees in suits by bill
filed. The last are judgments upon the matters in controversy between the parties before the court. The other are orders in conformity with a legislative act
in a particular case. Whatever the Chancellor does in e ither case, he does as a
court of chancery. It will stand when it has been done within the jurisdiction
conferred by the private act, until it has been set aside upon motion, as his decrees
in suits upon bill filed do, until they have been set aside by a bill of review.
In such a case the court will not deviate from the letter of the act, nor make an order
partly founded upon its original jurisdiction, and partly upon the statute. It cannot confound its original jurisdiction-in a suit with the powers it may be authorized to execute by petition, either in a public act giving statutory jurisdiction to
the court, to be exercised summarily upon petition, or in a private act providing
for relief in a particular case, which is to be carried out by the same mode of procedure.
In these acts for the relief of Clarke, what the Chancellor can do is precisely stated.
was given to him, in giving his assent to Clarke's making sales of
No authority
any part of the devised premises, to order that Clarke might make sales of any
his respective
of anybetween
debt or him and
de and
owing by
portion of it, in payment and satisfaction
agreed upon,
toe
Clarke, upon a valuation
creditors. Or that Clarke might take the money arising from the sales of the
and apply the same .to the payment of his debts, investing the surplus
premises,
only in such manner as he ma . deem proper to yield an income for the maintenance and support of his famIy. This was not an exercise of jurisdiction, but
beyond
an order out of and
the
for theit.alienation of land, to be made~with the assent
acts
sancThese were private
his of
Chancellor that there might he an assurance by matter of record, uder
from
purchasers
become
Ight
as
such
to
property
the
of
transfer
a
of
tion,
Clarke.
suits upon
Neither orders summarily given upon petition in chancery, nor decrees in
bill filed, can be summarily reviewed as a whole in a collateral way.
court exerBut itis a well-settled rule in jurisprudence, that the jurisdiction of any
when
cising authority over a subject maybe inquired into in every other court,

496

SUPREME

COURT.

Williamson et aL v. Berry.
the proceedings in the former are relied upon, and brought before the latter, by a
party claiming the benefit of such proceedings.
The rule applies to the case in hand, though it maylhave been decided by the highest
tribunal in New York, that the Chancellor had jurisdiction, under the Acts for the
relief of Clarke, to give the order permitting him to sell the property to his creditors, in payment of his debts, for though this court will recognize as a rule for its
judgments the decisions of the highest courts of the States relative to real property
as a part of the local law, it does not recognize as in any way binding upon them,
as a part of the local law, the decisions of the State courts upon private acts of any
kind, or such of them as provide for the alienation of private estates, by particular
persons, with the sanction of a court or of the Chancellor. Decisions upon private
acts form no part of the local law of real property. They concern only those for
whose benefit they are made, and can be no rule for any other case.
This court decides thatunder the acts of New York, the Chancellor had not the jurisdiction to give an order, permitting Clarke to convey any part of the devised
premises in satisfaction of his debts, and that neither De Grasse, nor his alienee
Berry, can derive from the order of the Chancellor, or from the conveyance by
Clarke to De Grasse, any title to the premises in dispute.
S71e is a word of precise legal import, both at law and inequity. It means a contract between parties to take and to pass rights of property for money, which the.
buyer pays or promises to pay to the seller for the thing bought and sold.
A sale ordered, decreed, or permitted by a chancellor, subject to the approval of a
master, requires the master's approval, and confirmation by the court, before a
purchaser can have a legal title to the estate that he means to buy or has bid for
under the decree of the court.
In any sale under a decree or order in chancery, the purchaser, before he pays his
money, must not only satisfy himself that the title to the property to be sold is
good, but he must take care that the sale has been made. according to the decree
or order.
If he takes under an imperfect sale, be must abide the consequence.
The sale in this instance by Clarke to De Grasse, if it were otherwise good, which it
is not, would be a nullity, for it wants the approval by the master to whom the
execution of the order was confided by the Chancellor.
Nor was Clarke's sale to De Grasse a judicial sale. Byjudicial sale is meant one
made under the process of a court, having competent authority to order it, by an
officer legally appointed and commissioned to sell.
In order that the sale by Clarke to De Grasse should be a judicial sale, it was requisite that the Chancellor should have had the authority to direct a sale of the
premises to his creditors for their demands, and that it should have been approved
by the master in the way the order directed it to be done.

THis case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, on a certificate of division in 'opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action of ejectment for one third of eight lots of
land in the city of New York. Mrs. Williamson was the daughter of Thomas B. Clarke, being one of three children who survived him, the other two being Mrs. Isabella M. Cochran and
Bayard Clarke.
In the year 1802, Mary Clarke died, leaving a will, from
which the following is an extract: "Item, I give and devise unto the said Benjamin Moore and
Charity, his wif6, and to Elizabeth Maunsell, and their heirs for
ever, as joint tenants, and not as tenants in common, all that certain lot of land number eight, in the said thirteenth allotment of
the said patent, containing one hundred acres; also that part of

JAN'UARY TERM, 1850.

497

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

my said farm at Greenwich aforesaid, called Chelsea, lying to
the northward of the line herein before directed to be drawn
from the Greenwich road to the Hudson River, twelve feet to
the northward of the fence standing behind the house now occupied by John Hall, bounded southerly by the said line, northerly by the land of Cornelius Ray, easterly by the Greenwich
road, and westerly by the Hudson, including that part of my
said farm now under lease to Robert Lenox; also all my house
and lot, with the appurtenances, known by number seven, within the limits of the prison, and now occupied by Thomas Byron; to have and to hold the said hereby devised premises to
the said Benjamin Moore and Charity, his wife, and Elizabeth
Maunsell, and to the survivor or survivors of them, and the
heirs of such survivor, as joint tenants, and not as tenants in
common, in trust to receive the rents, issues, and profits thereof, and to pay the same to the said Thomas B. Clarke, natural
son of my late son Clement, during his natural life, and from
and after the death of the said Thomas B. Clarke, in further
trust to convey the same to the lawful issue of the said Thomas
B. Clarke living at his death in fee; and if the said Thomas B.
Clarke shall not leave any lawful issue at the time of his death,
then in the further trust and confidence to convey the said here.
by devised premises to my said grandson Clement C. Moore,
and to his heirs, or to such person in fee as he may by will appoint, in case of his death prior to the death of the said Thomas
B. Clarke."
On the 2d of March, 1814, Thomas B. Clarke presented a
petition to the Legislature of New York, stating the will; that
the trustees had signed a paper agreeing td all such acts as the
Legislature might pass, and requesting to be discharged from
the trust; that Clement C. Moore, the devisee in remainder, had
also consented to such acts; and that the estate could not be so
improved and made productive as to answer the benevolent purposes of the testatrix. The prayer was for general relief.
On the 1st of April, 1814, the Legislature passed an act, entitled, "An act for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke." It recited
the facts above mentioned, and then provided, in "the first section, 1"that it shall and may be lawful for the Court of Chancery, on the applicatioh of the said Thomas B. Clarke, to constitute and appoint one or more trustees to execute and perform
the several trusts and duties specified and set forth in the said
in part recited will and testament, and in this act, in the place
and stead of the said Benjamin Moore and Charity, his wife,
and _the said Elizabeth Maunsell, who are hereby discharged
from the trusts in the said will mentioned. Provided, that it
42 *

498

SUPREME COURT.
.Williamson et al. v. Berry.

shall be lawful for the said court at any time thereafter, as occasion may require, to substitute and appoint other trustee or
trustees in the room of any of those appointed in this act, in
like manner as is practised in the said court in bases of trustees
appointed bherein; and such trustee or trustees, so appointed,
are hereby vested with the like powers as if he or they had
been named and appointed in and by this act."
The second, third, fourth and fifth sections prescribed minutely what should be done by the trustees, and authorized
them to sell and dispose of a 'moiety of the estate, and invest
the proceeds in some productive stock, the interest, excepting a
certain portion, to be paid to Mr. Clarke, and the principal to
be reserved for the trusts of the will.
The sixth section was as follows:
'1VI. And be it further enacted, that in every case, not otherwise provided for by this act, the trustees appointed, or to be
appointed, in virtue thereof, shall be deemed and adjudged trustees under the said will, so far as relates to the premises mentioned and described in the recital to this act, in like manner as
if such trustees had been originally named and appointed in the
said will; and they shall, in all r6spects, be liable to the power
and authority of the Court of Chancery for or concerning the
trusts created by this act."
It did not appear that any proceedings took place under this
act.
On the Ist of March, 1815, Clarke presented another petition
to the Legislature, stating that Clement C. Moore, the contingent devisee, had released all his interest in the property to
Clarke and his family, whereby the petitioner and his infant
children had become the only persons interested in the estate.
He stated also, that he had been unable to prevail upon any
suitable person to undertake the performance of the trust.
On the 24th of March, 1815, the Legislature passed an act
supplemental to the "Act for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke."
This act being a very important part of the case, it is proper to
recite it.
1,
"An Act supplemental to the ' Act for the Relief of Thomas B.
Clarke,' passed April 1, 1814.
"Whereas, since the passing of the act entitled 'An act for
the relief of Thmas B. Clarke,' Clement C. Moore, in the said
act named, by aninidenture duly executed by him, and recorded
in the office of the Secretary of this State, and bearikig date the
21st day of February, in the year 1815, hath, for -the consideration therein -expressed, and in due form of law, released and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

499

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

conveyed unto the said Thomas B. Clarke, his heirs and assigns, for ever, all the estate, right, title, interest, property, claim,
and demand whatsoever, of the said Clement C. Moore, of, in,
and to the real estate mentioned in the said act, whereby the
said real estate became exclusively vested in the said Thomas
B. Clarke and his children. And whereas the said Thomas B.
Clarke hath prayed the Legislature to alter and amend the said
act, particularly in relation to the interest of the said Clement
C. Moore, and the execution of certain trusts in the said act
mentioned, therefore, "I. Be it enacted by the people of the State of New York,
represented in Senate and Assembly, that all the beneficial interests and estate of the said Clement C. Moore, or those under
him, arising or to arise by virtue of the act to which this is a
supplement, or by the will mentioned in the said act, shall be,
and the same is hereby, vested in the said Thomas. B. Clarke,
his heirs.and assigns; and so much of the act to which this is
a supplement as is repugnant hereto, and so much thereof as requires the trustees to set apart and reserve a certain annual stipend out of the interest or income of the property thereby directed to be sold, for the purpose of creating and accumulating
a fund at compound interest, during the life of the said Thomas
B. Clarke; and so much of the said act as requires the several
duties therein enumerated to be performed by trustees, to be
appointed by the Court of Chancery, as therein mentioned, be,
and the same is hereby, repealed.
"II. And be it further enacted, that the said Thomas B.
Clarke be, and is hereby, authorized and empowered to execute
and perf6rm every act, matter, and thing, in relation to the real
estate mentioned in the act to which this is a supplement, ia
like manner and with like effect that trustees duly appointed
under the said act might have done, and that the said Thomas
B. Clarke apply the whole of the interest and income of the said
.property to the'maintenance and support of his family, and the
education of his children.
"III. And be it further enacted, that no sale of any part of
the said estate shall be made by the said Thomas B. Clarke,
until he shall have procured the assent of the Chancellor of this
State to such sale, who shall, at the time of giving such assent,
also direct the mode in which the proceeds of such sale, or so
much thereof as he shall think proper, shall be vested in the
said Thomas B. Clarke as trustee; and, further, that it shall be
the duty of the said Thomas B. Clarke annually to render an
account to the Chancellor, or to such person as he may appoint,
of the principal of the proceeds of such sale only, the interest

500

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson e.t al. v. Berry.

being to be applied by the said Thomas B. Clarke, in such manner as he may think proper, for his use and benefit, and for the
maintenance and education of his children; and if, on'such return, or at any other time, and in any other manner, the Chancellor shall'be of opinion that the said Thomas B. Clarke hath
not duly performed the trust by this act reposed in him, he may
remove the said Thomas B. Clarke from his said trust, and appoint another in his stead, subject to such rules as he may prescribe in the management of the estate hereby vested in the
said Thomas B. Clarke as trustee."
On the 28th of June, 1815, Clarke presented a petition to the
Chancellor. It recited the will and the two acts of the LegisJature; stated that he had a large and expensive family and no
means of maintaining them except from the rents and income
of the devised property, which were then and always had been
insufficient for the purpose; that he had been compelled to resort to loans and incur debts; that he had borrowed, in order
to meet the exigencies of his family, the sum of $ 4,400 in the
year 1805, and $ 4,500 since; that a sale of a moiety of the
devised property had become necessary, so much of the proceeds of which as might be required should be applied to the
payment of the above debts, and the residue vested in him as
trustee under the acts; and praying the Chancellor to authorize,
order, and direct a sale for the above-mentioned purposes.
On the same day, the Chancellor referred this petition to one
of the masters, to examine into the allegations and matters contained in it, and report thereon.
On the 30th of June, 1815, the master reported, and stated
the condition of the property and the income which it produced; the debts of the petitioner; the opinion of the master,
that they had been contracted for the support of his family,
and that the rents and profits were insufficient for the reasonable and proper support of the petitioner and his family according to their situation in life.
On-the 3d of July, 18115, the Chancellor issued an order, reciting all the circumstances of the case, and concluding thus :
"Therefore, on motion, of Mr. S. Jones, junior, of counsel
for the petitioner, it is ordered that the assent of the Chancellor
be, and hereby is, given to the sale, by the petitioner, of the said
house and lot in the fifth ward of the city of New York, and
of the eastern moiety or half part of the said premises at
Greenwich, in the ninth ward of the city of New York, to be
divided by the line in the manner for that purpose mentioned
in the said petition; and the petitioner is authorized and di-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

501

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

rected to sell and dispose of the same, under and according to
the aforesaid acts of the Legislature in that behalf, the said
sales to be made under*the direction of one of the masters* of
this court, and the petitioner to proceed in making the sales
and conveyances of the said premises, so to be sold, .in the
manner for that purpose in and by the said acts prescribed and
directed. And it is further ordered, that the purchase-moneys
for the said premises so to be sold be paid by the purchasers to
the said master, to be disposed of by him as hereinafter directed. And it is further ordered and directed, and his Honor the
Chancellor hereby doth authorize, order, and direct, that so
much of the net proceeds, to arise from such sales, as may be
necessary for the purpose, be applied, under the direction of
one of the masters of this court, in and for the payment and
discharge of the debts now owing by the petitioner, and to be
contracted for the necessary purposes of his family, to be proved
before the said master; and the costs, charges, and expenses
of the petitioner, on his petition in this matter, and the proceedings had, and to be hereafter had, under or in consequence
thereof; but so, however, and it is further ordered and directed, that the net proceeds of the said eastern moiety of the
said premises at Greenwich aforesaid, or so much thereof as
shall be necessary for that purpose, be applied in the first place,
and before and in preference to any other appropriation or application thereof, to pay and satisfy to the President and Directors of the Manhattan Company aforesaid the aforesaid debt or
sum of four thousand four hundred dollars, with the interest
thereof up to the time of such payment, or such part and balance of the said debt, and interest, as shall riot have been otberwise paid or satisfied. And it is further ordered and directed,
and his Honor the Chancellor hereby doth further order and
direct, that the residue of the said net moneys, and proceeds
arising from such said sales, after the said debts, costs, charges,
and expenses shall be discharged and paid by and out of the
same, be placed out at interest, on real security, in the city of
New York, in the name of the petitioner as trustee, under the
direction of one of the masters of this court, upon the following trusts, to be expressed upon the face and in the body of the
said securities respectively, whereon the same shall be so placed,
that is to say, upon trust that the interest and income
thereof, or so much of the same as may be required for that
purpose, be applied, from time to time, in and for the suitable
and proper maintenance and support of the petitioner, and his
wife and children, already born and to be hereafter born, according to their situation in life, and for the suitable education

502

SUPREME

COURT.

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

of the said children ; and upon further trust, that the principal
sum or sums, with the securities whereon the same. may be
vested or placed, and may stand, shall be held, and he the petitioner, as trustee, stand.and be possessed thereof in trust, for
the benefit, of the lawful issue of the petitioner who shall be
living at the death of him, the petitioner, according to the
trusts upon which the unsold moiety of the said premises at
Greenwich aforesaid, in the aforesaid acts of the Legislature
mentioned,'are or shall be held; and so, and in such manner,
that the said interest and income of the said trust moneys,
funds, and securities, or so much thereof as may be requisite
thereto, shall be appropriated, applied, and secured in the first
instance, and exclusively, to the suitable maintenance of the
family of the petitioner, according to their situation in life, and
the suitable education of his children, and shall not be subject
or liable to or for the engagements, debts, or control of the petitioner, or for any other purpose whatsoever than the said purposes hereby designated and authorized; provided that any
surplus of the said interest and income, that may be left and
remain after the said objects and purposes, hereby designated as
aforesaid, are first fully and liberally fulfilled and accomplished,
according to the true meaning hereof, shall be for the use and
at the disposal of him, the petitioner. And it is further ordered
that the master, under whose direction the said sales should be
made, and the debts paid, and surplus proceeds placed out as
aforesaid, report to this court the proceedings that may b6 !,ad
in the premises, and the securities that may be taken therein,
pursuant to this order, with all convenient speed ; and that all
and every person or persons who are, or is, or may become
interested therein, have liberty to apply to this court, at any
time or times hereafter, for any further or other orders or directions in or touching the premises."
On the 12th of March, 1816, Clarke again applied to the
Legislature. ' The petition is short, and may be insqrted.
"To

the Honorable the Legislature of the State of New
York. The memorial and petition of Thomas B. Clarke,
of the city of New York, respectfully showeth :"That his Honor, the Chancellor, under the act 'for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke,' passed April 1, 1814, and the act
'supplemental to the act for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke,'
passed March 24, 1815, did order and direct that the said
Thomas B. Clarke should sell the eastern moiety or half part
of the premises in the said act and order mentioned.
"And your petitionier-further shows, that, owing.to the scar-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

503

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

city of money, and the present low price of property, no sale
can be made without a great sacrifice.
"Your petitioner therefore prays, .that he may be allowed to
mortgage'such part of the property, in the said act mentioned,
as the Chancellor may appoint, and for the purposes mentioned
in the said acts and order; and that your petitioner be allowed
to bring in a bill for that purpose. And he will eyer pray, &c."
On the 29th of March, 1816, the Legislature passed the following act:"An Act further supplemental to an Act entitled ' An Act for
the Relief of Thomas B. Clarke.'
"Be it enacted by the people of the State of New York,
represented in Senate and Assembly, that the said Thomas B.
Clarke be, and he is hereby, authorized, under the order, heretofore granted by the Chancellor, or'under anysubsequent order,
either to mortgage or to sell the premises which the Chancellor
has permitted, or hereafter may permit, him to sell, as trustee
under the will of Mary Clarke, and to apply the money so
raised by mortgage or sale to the purposes required, or to be
required, by the Chancellor, under the acts heretofore passed for
the relief of the said Thomas B. Clarke."
On the 27th of May, 1816, Clarke presented another petition
to the Chancellor, again reciting all the facts in the case, and
praying his assent to a mortgage.
On the 30th of May, 1816, the Chancellor passed the following order:."It is ordered, that the said petitioner, under the act entitled
An act further supplemental to'the act entitled "1An act for
the relief of Thomas B. Clarke,"' passed March 29th, 1816,
be, and he is heriby, authorized, so far as the, assent of this
court is requisite, to mortgage, instead of selling, the lands he
was authorized to sell, in. and by an order of this court of the
third day of July last; and that the moneys to be procured,
and the debts to be .extinguished by such mortgage or mortgages, be appropriated and adjusted in the same manner and,
under the same checks, and not otherwise than is prayed for in
and by said order, and -the said order is to apply to and govern
the application of the moneys to be raised by mortgage, equally
as if the same had been raised by a sale of all or aliy of the
lands authorized to be sold in and by the said order.
3. KENT."
"May 30th, 1816.
On the 8th of March, 1817, Clarke presented another petition

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

to the Chancellor, represefilting the propriety and expediency of
dividing the estate by an eastern and western- instead of a
northern and southern line, and of granting to the petitioner
the power to sell or mortgage the southern, instead of the eastern moiety. This being referred to James A. Hamilton, a master in chancery, he reported that it would be expedient to divide the estate by a line running from east to west, passing
through Twenty-sixth Street.
On the 15th of March, 1817, the Chancellor passed the following order -I

1On reading and filing the report of James A. Hamilton,
esquire, one of the masters of this court, bearing date the 11th
day'of March, 1817, by which it appears that no part of the
northern moiety of the estate at Greenwich, mentioned in the
petition of the above-named petitioner, the same being divided
into two equal parts by a line running from east to west,
through a street called Twenty-sixth Street, has been either
sold or mortgaged by the said Thomas B. Clarke, and it appearing to this court reasonable and proper that the prayer of
the said petitioner should be granted, it is thereupon ordered,
on motion of Mr. S. Jones, solicitor for the petitioner, that the
said petitioner be, and he is hereby, authorized to sell and dispose of the southern moiety of the said estate, the same being
divided by a line running east and west through the centre of
-Twenty-sixth Street aforesaid,, together with the lot in Broadway, instead of the eastern moiety of the said estate, as permitted and directed by the orders heretofore made in the premises. And it is further ordered, that the said Thomas B. Clarke
be, and he hereby is, authorized to mortgage all or any tract or
parts of the said southern moiety of the said estate, if in his
judgment it will be more beneficial to mortgage them than -to
sell the same. And the said Thomas B. Clarke is further authorized to convey any part or parts of the said southern moiety
of the said estate, in payment and satisfaction of any debt or
debts due and owing from the said Thomas-B. Clarke, upon a
valuation to be agreed on between him and his respective creditors; provided, nevertheless, that every sale, and mortgage,
and conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made by the said
Thomas B. Clarke in virtue hereof, shall be approved by one
of the masters of this court, and that a certificate of such approval, be indorsed upon every deed or mortgage that may be
made in the premises. And it is further ordered, that the said
Thomas B. Clarke shall be, and he is hereby; auth'orized to receive and take the moneys arising from the premises, and apply
the same to the payment of his-debts, and invest the surplus

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

505

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

*

in such manner as he may deem proper to yield an income for
the maintenance and support of his family."
On the 9th of April, 1816, Clarke mortgaged the premises in
question, with other property, being in the southern moiety of
the estate, to Henry Simmons, which mortgage was discharged
in 1822.
Having given this historical account of the facts of the case,
let us now see what occurred upon the trial in the court below.
It has already een mentioned, that it was an ejectment
brought by Williamson and wife against a party in possession
of a portion of the property included in the devise of Mary
Clarke. The following case was stated for the opinion of the
court.
Circuit Court U. S., Southern District New York.
WILLIAMSON & CATHARINE H., HIs WIFE, v. Jo-

CHARLES A.

SEPH BERRY.

This is an action of ejectment for the undivided third part
of eight lots of land, in the sixteenth ward of the city of New
York.
The pleadings may he referred to as part of this case.
The plaintiffs claimed under the will of Mary Clarke.
The plaintiffs gave in evidence an exemplified copy of the
will of Mary Clarke, proved in the Supreme Court, of which
a copy is hereto annexed.
It was. then admitted by the defendant's counsel, that Mary
Clarke was seized of the premises described in the said will as
"all'that part of my said farm at Greenwich aforesaid, called
Chelsea, lying to the northward of the line herein before directed to be drawn from thLe Greenwich road to. the Hudson
River, twelve feet to the northward of the fence standing behind the house now occupied by John Hall; bounded southerly by the said line, northerly by the land of Cornelius Ray,
easterly by the Greenwich road, and westerly by the Hudson,
including that part of my said farm now under lease to Robert
Lenox." At the time of the making of the will, and thence
until her death, which took place in July, 1802, that the said
premises included the eight lots claimed herein; that the said
trustees, Benjamin Moore and Charity, his wife, and Elizabeth
Maunsell, are all dead, - MVIrs. Moore having died since 1830,
the other two previously; that T homa B. Clarke was married
in 1803; that his wife died in August, 1815, and himself on
the 1st of May, 1826; that he left three children surviving
him, Catharine, Isabella, and Bayard; that he had four other
children, all of whom died before him, without having had any
VOL. VIII.

43

506

-

SUPREME COURT.
'Williamson et a.

v. Berry.

children, and unmarried; that Catharine was born on the 5th
of June, 1807, and was married to Charles A. Williamson, on
the 10t4 of May, 1827; that Isabella was born on the 11th
day of June, 1809, and was married to Rupert J. Cochran on
the 4th day of June, 1835; that Bayard was born on the 17th
day of March, 1815; all of whom are stil living. It was also
admitted that the defendant was the actual occupant of the
premises at the commencement of this suit, on the 6th of March,
1845; and- that one third of the premises claimed was of great.er value than two thousand dollars.
The plaintiffs thereupon rested.
The defendant's counsel then proved the acts of the Legislature, the deed of Glement C. Moore, the petitions to the
Chancellor, the master's reports, and the orders of the Chancellor, (excepting only-the order indorsed on petition,) of which
copies are hereto annexed.
The defendant's counsel then offered in evidence the deed
from Thomas B. Clarke to George De Grasse, of which the following is a copy:"This indenture, made, this 2d day of August, in the year
of our Lord 1821, between Thomas B. Clarke, of the city of
New York, gentleman, of the first part, and George De Grasse
of the second -part. Whereas the said Thomas B. Clarke, by
virtue of sundry conveyances, acts of the Legislature, and
orders of the Court of Chancery of the State of New York,
hath been empowered to sell, or mortgage, or convey, in satisfaction of any debt due from him to any person or persons, the
southern moiety of the estate at Greenwich, devised by Mary
Clarke, deceased, for the benefit of the said Thomas B. Clarke'and his childen, or any part thereof. Now, therefore, this
indenture witnesseth, that the said Thomas B. Clarke, in consideration of the premises, and of two thousand dollars, lawful
money of the United Stat§,- to, him in hand paid by the said
party of the second -part, at orlbefor -the sealing and delivery of
these presents, the receipt wherpf-is hereby acknowledged, hath
granted, bargained, sold:aliened, enfeoffed, conveyed, and confirmed, and by these- presents doth grant,. bargain, sell, alien,
enfeoff, convey, and confirm, unto the said party of the second
part, his heirs and assigns, for ever, all those lots of ground
situate, lying, and being in the Ninth ward of the city of New
York, known and distinguished on a certain map of the propery.of the said Thomas B. Clarke," &c.
(The deed then described twenty-nine lots, with a covenant
of general warranty.)
James A.- Hamilton joined in this deed, as a trustee for
Clarke's life estate, of which he had become possessed.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

507

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

This deed was objected to by the plaintiffs' counsel, for two
reasons :

1. Because not approved by a master.
2. Because not shown to have been given upon a sale for
cash.
The 'objections were overruled, and the plaintiffs' counsel
excepted.
The deed was then read in evidence, as was also a deed from
George De Grasse tdi Margaret Van Surlay. (It is not necessary to insert this deed.)
The defendant's counsel then rested.
The plaintiffs' counsel then offered to read the petitions to
the Legislature, the extracts from the journals of the two houses,
and the order indorsed on petition, of which copies are hereto
annexed. They were objected to by the defendant's counsel,
the objection sustained; and the plaintiffs' counsel excepted.
The plaintiffs' counsel then proved the mortgage executed
by Thomas B. Clarke to Henry Simmons, of which the following is a copy. (It is not necessary to insert this mortgage.)
The plaintiffs' counsel then offered evidence to show the consideration of the deed from Clarke to De Grasse. The defendant's counsel objected; the objection was overruled, and the
defendant's counsel excepted.
The plaintiffs' counsel then called as a witness James A.
Hamilton, who testified that he knew Thomas B..Clarke and
George De Grasse; that in 1821, and for some years previous,
he was a master in chancery in the city of New York; that
the order of March 15, 1817, was put into his hands for execution, and that Clarke and Do Grasse applied to him to approve
the deed from Clarke to De Grasse above set forth; that on
that occasion, which was at or abour the time the deed was
given, they explained to him the consideration of the deed, and
that the consideration for which it was given was some wild
lands in Pennsylvania or Virginia, and an account for articles
previously furnished to Clarke by De Grasse, out of an oysterhouse which he kept, including some items of money lent.
On thus ascertaining its consideration, he refused to approve
the deed.
On his cross-examination, he said that he could not state
the time at which the transaction occurred, except by reference
to the deed; he had more than one interview with Clarke and
De Grasse, he was sought by them more than once; he did not
consider the execution of the life-estate deed a matter of any
interest; he executed it .as trustee. He did not remember at
all a person by the name of James Cunningham; and on being

tS

"SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

shown the signature of James Cunningham, as subscribing witness to the deed for the life estate, witness said that his recol.lection of the person was not thereby revived. He received
from De Grasse no fee. It was his impression, that the account for articles furnished at the oyster-shop was exhibited.
Ie held the life estate of Clarke in the premises as trustee for
Clarke. His impression was that Clarke filled up his own deed
to De Grasse, and to obtain his sanction called upon witness;
he was not certain that De Grasse was present upon that occasion. He did not recollect that De Grasse was present when
the deed for life estate was executed, but he recollected that
both Clarke and De Grasse came together to witness's office
more than once on the subject, and he was besought by them
frequently to approve the deed. In answer to a question by
defendant's counsel, what evidence he had of the insufficient
value of the lands which formed part of, the consideration, the
*itness stated that he had evidence enough then, though he
did not recollect it now, that the lands were worthless tax
lands. 'There might have been some money charged in De
Grasse's account against Clarke; the whole account was for
articles furnished previously. He did not recollect that there
were any notes forming part of the consideration of the deed
from Clarke.
The plaintiffs' counsel then proved that seven of the lots insuit,-viz. numbers 5, 6, 7, 41, 42, 43, and 45, were reconveyed
to De Grasse on the 31st of October, 1844.
The defendant's counsel then proved that lot number 44 had
been conveyed to Samuel Judd.
They als6 proved the bond of Clarke to Simmons, referred
to in the aforesaid mortgage to Simnions, and called Henry M.
Western, who, being shown two indorsements on the said bond,
as follows

-

"Received, New York, October 18th, 1821, from Mr.- George
De Grasse, one hundred dollars on acdount of the within bond.
.$ 100.
H. SIMMONS."
"Received of 'George De Grasse" two hundred and fifty dol"lars, being in full for principal and interest,.and all other claims
and demands on account of the w*ithin bond; and also of the
mortgage, therein men'tioned, for which mortgage I have this
day entered satisfaction of .record.
H. SIMMONs.
"NEW YORK, March 28th, 1822;:.
'(Witness
-

H.. M. WESTERN.""

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

testified that he was a subscribing. witness to the last, which
he wrote; but that he recollected nothing of the transaction
but from the paper.
The plaintiffs' counsel then offered to prove,
(1.) That the acts of the Legislature were not for the benefit
of the infants, but for the benefit of Thomas B. Clarke merely.
(2.) That the orders of the Chancellor had the effect to take
the proceeds of their future interest in the property, and to apply the same to the father's debts, without giving them any
benefit, by support or otherwise, out of the income of the life
estate in other parts of the property.
(3.) That, under the acts and orders, he actually aliened the
lot on Broadway, and all of the southern moiety of the Greenwich property, excepting two lots, and that none of the children received any benefit from such alienation.
(4.) That the whole of this property was mortgaged or conveyed for old debts ; that no proceeds were ever invested, or
secured, or even received from the grantees or mortgagees.
(5.) That, so far from providing for'the children, or protecting the estate, he suffered a large portion of the northern moiety
to be sold for assessments, and was proceeding to dispose of the
northern moiety for twenty-one years, when, on the 31st of
March, 1826, a bill was filed against him on behalf of the
children, and an injunction issued.
(6.) That the plaintiff, Mrs. Williamson, was, from the
death of her mother in August, 1815, supported entirely by
one of her aunts; and that after about two years, from the
mother's death, the other children were supported by their
friends, and were entirely neglected by their father; and that
this was notorious in the city of New York, and would have
been immediately known to any one making inquiry.
The defendant's counsel objected; the objection was sustained, and the plaintiffs' counsel excepted.
A verdict was then taken for the plaintiffs for one undivided
third part of the eight lots, subject to the opinion of the court
upon the questions of law, with power to enter a verdict for
defendant, if such should be the opinion of the court, and with
liberty to either party to turn this case into a special verdict or
bill of exceptions.
On the 18th of May, 1846, the judges of the Circuit Court pronounced their judgment upon the four following points, viz.: 1. Under the will of Mary Clarke, the fi st-born child of
Thomas B. Clarke, at its birth, took a vested estate in remainder, which opened to let in his other children o the like estate
'as they were successively born.
43*
-

•510

SUPREME

COURT.

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

2. This estate would have become a fee simple absolute in
the children living on the death of T. B. Clarke, the. first day
of May, 1826; and it is not important now to decide whether
the trustees took a fee, under the will, in trust to convey to the
children after his decease, or a fee for his life, as in the latter
case the estate would vest in possession in the children at the
death of T. B. Clarke, and in the former case the law would
presume an execution of this trudt by the surviving trustee on
the death of T. B. Clarke, or the trust would be executed in
1830, by force of the Revised Statutes.
3. The several offers of the plaintiffs to give parol evidence
to the jury. touching the objects and operation of the acts of
the Legislature, referred to in the case, or the effect of the
orders of the Chancellor therein stated upon the interests of the
children of T. B. Clarke, or the failure of T. B. Clarke to apply
or secure the proceeds of the devised estate, when disposed of
by him, to and for the benefit of his children, or the consideralion on which the devised estate was disposed of by T. B.
Clarke, or his neglect to protect the estate from sacrifice for
assessments, &c., or to provide for and support his children,
were properly overruled by the court, with the exception of
such particulars included in those offers as may be embraced
in the points hereafter stated, upon whih the judges are divided in opinion.
4. The acts of the Legislature of the State of New York,
.,f April 1, 1814, March 24, 1815, and March 29, 1816, referred
to in the case, are constitutional and valid.
But the judges are divided in opinion upon the following
points presented by the case:1. Whether the acts of the Legislature, stated in the case,
devested the estate of the trustees under the will of Mary
Clarke, and vested the whole estate in fee in Thomas B.
Clarke.
2. Whether the authority given by the said acts to the
trustee to sell was a special power, to be strictly pursued, or
-whether he was vested witbl the absolute power of alienation,
subject only to regxamination and account in equity.
3. Whether the orders set forth in the case, made by the
.Chancellor, were authorized by and in conformity to the said
acts of the Legislature, and are to be regarded as the acts of
the ,Court of Chancery, empowered to proceed as such in that
behalf, or the doings of an officer acting under a special authority.

4. Whether the Chancellor had competent authority, under
the acts, to order or allow such sale or conveyance of the estate

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

511

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

by the trustee, as is stated in the case, on any other consideration than for cash, paid'on said conveyance.
5. Whether the deed executed by Thomas B. Clarke to
George de Grasse, for the premises in question, being upon a
consideiation other than for cash paid on the purchase, is valid.
6. Whether the said deed is valid, it having no certificate
indorsed thereon that it was approved by a master in chancery.
7. Whether Thomas B. Clarke, having previously mortgaged
the premises in fee to Henry Simmons, had competent authority to sell and convey the same to De Grasse.
8. Whether the subsequent conveyance of the premises as
set forth in the case, made by George De Grasse, rendered the
title of such grantee, or his assigns, valid against the plaintiffs.
It is thereupon, on motion of the plaintiffs, by their counsel,
ordered that a certificate of division of opinion, upon the foregoing points, which are here stated during this same term, under the direction of the said judges, be duly certified, under the
seal of this court, to the Supreme Court of the United States, tobe finally decided.
Upon this certificate, the case came up to this court. It was
argued, in conjunction with the next two cases'which will be
reported in this volume, by Mr.Fieldand Mr. Webster, for the
plaintiffs, and Mr. Jay and Mr. Wood, for the defendants. Mr.
Flanaganalso filed a brief for the defendants.
Each one of the counsel pursued his own train of argument,
and filed a separate brief. The statement of these points will
make the report of this case unusually long, but the importance
of the principles discussed makes it necessary to place before
the reader the view which each counsel took in the case. They
will be stated in the following order.: -M r. Field for the
plaintiffs, Mr. Jay and Mr. Wood, for the defendant, and Mr.
Webster for'the plaintiffs, in reply and conclusion.
Mr Field. The plaintiffs maintain,1. That the acts of the Legislature stated in the case, whether
they devested the estate of the trustees under the will of Mary
Clarke or not, did not vest the whole estate in fee in Thomas
B. Clarke.
2. That the authority given by the said acts to the trustee to
sell, was a special power, to be strictly pursued.
3. That the orders set forth in the case were not authorized
by, and in conformity to, the said acts of the Legislature, and
are to be regarded, not as the acts of the Court of Chancery,
empowered to proceed as such in ihat behalf, but as the doings
of an officer acting under a special authority.

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

4. That the Chancellor had no competent authority, under
the acts, to order or allow such sale or conveyance of the estate
by the trustee, as is stated 'in the case, on any other consideration than for cash paid on such conveyance.
5. That the deed executed by Thomas B. Clarke to George
De Grassez for the premises in question, being upon a consideration other than for cash paid on the purchase, is not valid.
6. That it is invalid for this reason also, that it was not ap
proved by the Chancellor, or by a master in chancery.
7. That Mr. Clarke, having previously mortgaged the premises in fee to Henry Simmons, had exhausted his power over
the subject, and had not competent authority to sell and convey
the same to De Grasse.
8. That the subsequent conveyanc.e of a part of the premises,
as set forth in the *case,made by George De Grasse, did not
render the title to that part, of such grantee or his assigns,
valid against the plaintiffs.
In support of these positions, the plaintiffs make the following points: First Point.- The acts of the Legislature changed the
equitable life estate of Mr. Clarke into a legal estate, but they
did not give him the legal estate in remainder. His power
over the remainder of the children was a statutory poiver, and,
like all such powers, to be strictly pursued, and when once
executed was exhausted.
I. Whether even the trustees appointed by the will took a
fee is hot certain. In Clarke v. Van Surlay, 15 Wend. 442, it
was conceded that "the legal interest in the property under the
will was in the cestuis que trust."
.It is a general rule in the construction of devises, that trustees take no greater 'estate than is necessary to support the
trusts, whatever words of inheritance may have been used.
Stanley v. Stanley, 16 Ves. 491; Doe v. Simpson, 5 East, 162;
Doe v. Nichols, 1 Barn. & Cres. 336;- Doe v. Needs, 2 Mees.
& Welsh. 129; Warter v. Hutchinson, 3 Dowl. & Ryl. 58;
Hill on Trustees, 240.
II. But if the testamentary trustees took a fee, their estate,
-when devested did not pass -to Mr. Clarke alone. -It passed to
him and his children; to him f6r life, and to his children in fee.
The
"1. reasons
There isare,
no language in any of the acts expressly giving
the fee to him. On the contrary, the expressions seem care,
fully chosen to avoid that conclusion. He is "authorized and
empowered to execute and perform every act, matter, and thing,
in like manner, and with like effect, that trustees duly appoint-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

513

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

ed under the said act might have done." (Sec.-2 of second
act.) This is language appropriate to a power, not to a conveyance. It clothes him, not with the estate, but with a power
in trust. The word " trustee," used in reference to him, has
not of itself force enough to give him the fee. He was, both in
popular and 'in legal phrase, trustee of a power. He was to
have the proceeds invested in his name as trustee. (See. 3 of
second act.) The expression is not so strong as that in the
preamble of the second act, -

"whereby the said real estate

became exclusively vested in the said Thomas B. Clarke and
his children."
The fee not being expressly given to Mr. Clarke, if he took
it at all, he took it by implication. But a fee by implication is
never allowed, except where it is necessary to the purposes of
the trust; and here it was not necessary, for every thing which
he was to do could be done under the power as well, and far
more safely to the rights of the children.
2. To give Mr. Clarke the fee for the execution of the trust,
would involve this absurdity, that it would suppose a conveyance by him after his death. The testamentary trustees, if
they took the legal estate, were to convey to the children at
Mr. Clarke's death. That is a sufficient reason why he was
not, and could not be, put in the place of those trustees.
3. If the fee was given to Mr. Clarke, at the passing of the
second act, it must either have been then taken out.of the children to be vested in him, or it must have been in abeyance
since the passing of the first act. That discharged the trustees
under the will. (See. I of first act.) If, then, the children
were not vested with the fee, it remained in abeyance. But
abeyances are not favored, nor are they allowed by construction
or implication. Com. Dig., Abeyance, A. 3; Catlin v. Jackson,
8 Johns. 549.
If, however, as we contend, the fee was then in the children,
there was no reason for taking it out, and vesting it in the father. To do so would, besides, have been open to grave constitutional objection. It would have exposed the estate of the
children to a peril, for which there was no necessity, real or
supposed.
III. If Mr. Clarke was not vested with the legal estate in remainder, he was clothed with a statutory power,- a common
law authority, as defined by Mr. Sugden. - " A power given by
a 'will, or by an act of Parliament, as in the instance of the
land-tax redemption acts, to sell an estate, is a common law au-'
thority." 1 Sugden on Powers, 1.
-A power is to be strictly pursued. Doe v. Lady Cdvan, 5

514

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et aL v. Berry.

Term Rep. 567; Doe v. Calvert, 2 East, 376; Cholmeley v. Paxton, 3 Bing. 207; Cockerel v. Cholmeley, 10 Barn. & Cres. 564;
3 Russ. 565; 1 Russ. & Myl. 418; 1 Clark & Fin. 60; 2 Sug.
Pow. 95, 197, 198, 330, 331, 413.And .a statutory power in' particular. Rex v. Croke, Cowp.
26; Collettyv. Hooper, 13 Ves. 255; Richter v. Hughes, 2 Barn.
&C res. 499;. Proprietors of Stourbridge Canal v. Wheeley, 2
Barn. & Ad. 792; -Lessee of Carlisle v. Longworth, 5 Ham.
370; Smith v. Hileman, 1 Scam. 324; Sharp v. Spier, 4 Hill,
76; Williams v. Peyton's Lessee, 4 Wheat. 77; Thatcher v.
Powell, 6 Wheat. 119.
The leases under ecclesiastical statutes in England are instances. Bac. Abr., Leases, E. 2; Cro. Eliz. 207, 690.
Wherefore, not having pursued his authority, Mr. Clarke conveyed nothing by his deed.
IV. A statutory power once fully eieuuted is exhausted.
"An authority once weUl executed cannot be executed d novo." 3 Yin. Abr., p. 429, § 42; Palk v. Lord Clinton, 12 Yes:
48 ; Barnet v. Wilson, 2 Younge & Coll. 407; 1 Sug. Pow. 359.
Therefore Mr. Clarke, having once fully executed his authority by a mortgage to Simmons, could not execute it again by
a conveyance to De Grasse.
Second Point.- If, however, Mr. Clarke were to be deemed
vested with the legal estate in remainder, he was disabled from
alienation, without the consent of the Chancellor. (Sec. 3 of
second act.)
If he took the fee, he took it qualified, and with a restricted
power of disposition. The general rule of law, that he who
has the. legal estate can convey the legal estate, was modified
in'his case. It might have been .so modified by deed at common law. M'Williams v. Nisly, 2 Serg.. & Rawle, 513; Burton on Real Property, 11, note; Doe v. Pearson, 6 East, 173;
Perrin v. Lyon, 9 East, 170. The private acts of the Legislature, whence he derived his right, were laws repealing to that
extent the general law. M'Laren v. Pennington, 1 Paige, 102;
Hibblewhite v. M'Morine, 6 Mees. & Welsb. 200; Myatt v. St.
Helens Co., 1 G. & D. 663; Earl of Lincoln v. Arcedeckne, 1
Collyer, 98.
There is now a general law in New York, that a conveyance
by a trustee, in contravention of the trust, is void. 1 Rev. Stat.
730, sec. 65. This ia but an extension to all cases of the principle established for this case by these private acts.
Instances of restricted powers of alienation, imposed upon the
fee, are not uncommon. The case of Indian lands is a familiar
instance. See also Prince's case, 8 Coke's Rep. I.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

515

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

The consent of the Chancellor was interposed as a check
upon Mr. Clarke. The first act did not prescribe it for the trustees to be appointed by the Chancellor; but when, by the second statute, the tenant for life was authorized to act, the consent of the Chancellor was required, for the protection of the infant children.
Third Point. Mr. Clarke was also disabled from alienation,
except for a money consideration.
The acts give no authority to do more than to sell or to
mortgage. The purpose was to raise funds for investment.
The first act provides, that the trustees shall invest the "proceeds in any public stock of the United States, or of this State,
or bank stock, or shall put the same out at interest on real security." (See. 3 of first act.)
Section fourth of the same act provides, th4t the "principal
sum of money arising from the said sales" shall be held, &c.
Section third of the second act provides, that the Chancellor
shall "direct the manner in which the proceeds of such sale, or
so much thereof as he shall think proper, shall.be vested in the
said Thomas B. Clarke as trustee."
The third act is still more explicit. It authorizes Mr. Clarke,
under the order before granted, or any subsequent one, "1either
to mortgage or to sell the premises, which the Chancellor has
permitted, or hereafter may permit, him to sell, as trustee, under
the will of Mary Clarke, and to apply the money, s9 raised by
mortgage or sale, to the purposes required," &c.
If s"to sell and dispose of" included every kind of alienation,
it included a mortgage, and the third act was unnecessary.
On a similar expression in a will, the Supreme Court and
Court of Errors of New York held, that a sale must be for
cash, orsomething which could be invested. Waldron v. McComb, 1 Hill, 111, and Bloomer v. Waldron, 3 Hill, 361, and
though the Court of Errors reversed the first judgment, they
did not impugn the principle. 7 Hill, 335.
So, also, in the case of Darling v. Rogers, 22 Wend. 486, it
was held by thie Court of Errors, that the words "to sell" did
not include the power to mortgage.
Answer, - but it is not so in cases where for payment of
debts; then may mortgage. 5 Johns. 43. No sale in fact, yet
legal title passed.
Fourth Point.- The Chancellor's order of March, 1817, did
not authorize any conveyance, and least of all a conveyance for
such a consideration as this, unless it were approved by a master.
The language is, 11Provided, nevertheless, that every sale and
.-

516

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

mortgage and conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made by
the said Thomas B. Clarke, in virtue hereof, shall be approved
by one of the masters of this court, and that a certificate of
such approval be'indorsed upon every deed or mortgage that
may be made in the premises."
The defendant claims, that this qualification applies only to
the cohveyance in satisfaction ; the plaintiffs, that it applies to

every deed or mortgage that might be made. That the latter
is the true construction is claimed, because,I. The statute declared, that no sale of any part of the estate
should be made without the assent of the Chancellor to -such
sale, who was, at the time of giving the assent, to direct the
mode in which the proceeds, or so niuch as he should think
proper, should be vested in Mr. Clarke, as trustee. This implied that the Chancellor's consent was to be given to every
sale.
The Chancellor delegated the power to a master of his court.
Supposing such a delegation lawful, the power was to be exercised on every sale. To restrict it, therefore, to a conveyance
in satisfaction, is not only to pervert the Chancellor's order, but
to repeal the'statute.
II. The language of the order itself is free from ambiguity;
it being thus: - "Provided, nevertheless, that every sale and
mortgage and conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made by
the said Thomas B. Clarke, in virtue hereof, shall be approved,"
&c.
This is a repetition of the words previously used to express,
1. a sale for cash, 2. a mortgage for cash, and 3. a conveyance in satisfaction. So, in the last part of the sentence, the
words are repeated with added emphasis. The approval is to
be indorsed on "ezery deed or mortgage that may be made in
the premises." It does not seem a fair interpretation to construe
this to mean) not "every deed or mortgage that may be made
in the premises," but a particular kind of, deed, namely, a conveyance in satisfaction of an antecedent debt.
Ill. The ruling of the State court on this point was made
with great hesitation. Judge Bronson- gave no reasons for his
opinion. It does not appear to have been discussed at the argument in the Supreme Court. In the Court of Errors, the
Chancellor said, "Upon this point, I concur, though with much
-hesitation"; in the conclusion, that the restriction was only
intended to apply to sales and conveyances in satisfaction of
debts. (20 Wend. 379.) He overlooked altogether the word
Imortgage,'rtwice used in the same sentence. Mr. Verplanck,
who delivered the only other opinion, was clear that the re-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

517

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

striction applied to sales and mortgages, as wvell as conveyances
in satisfaction, (20 Wend. 386, 387.) What were the opinions
of the remaining members of the court does not appear.
But the opinions of the courts of New York do not bind the
courts of the United States, in the construction of a writing
like this. In the case of a will, this court rejected the construction given by the courts of Mississippi. Lane v. Vick, 3
How. 464.
In the present case, however, the conveyance was not for
cash, but chiefly in payment and satisfaction of a debt, and
therefore, within the decision of the Supreme Court and Court
of Errors of New York, it should have been approved by a
master.
Not having been so approved, it was void.
Fifth Point.- So far as the order sanctioned a conveyance
for any other than a money consideration, it was unauthorized
by the acts, and therefore beyond the Chancellor's jurisdiction.
Consequently it gave no force to the title.
In acting under these private statutes, the Chancellor exercised a special and limited jurisdiction, and where he exceeded
his jurisdiction his acts were void. The proceeding was not
by suit between party and party, where an appeal could be had
from an erroneous determination.
Cases of this kind are numerous in the books. In New,
York, the cases -upon assessments are familiar instances.
Striker v. Kelley, 7 Hill, 9; Matter of Beekman Street, 20
Johns. 271; Matter of Third Street, 6 Cow. 571.
So in cases of partition. Deming v. Corwin, 11 Wend. 647.
So in cases of bankruptcy, jurisdiction to grant the discharge
must be specially shown. Sackett v. .Andross, 5 Hill, 330;
Stephens v. Ely, 6 Hill, 607.
Other cases in the State courts: -Yates v. Lansing, 9 Johns.
431; Borden v. Fitch, 15 Johns. 141; Bloom v. Burdick, 1
Hill, 139; Rogers v. Dill, 6 Hill, 415; Wickes v. Caulk, 5
Har. & Johns. 42; Pringle v. Carter, 1 Hill, S. C. 53. See
also Fisher v. Harnden, 1 Paine, 55.
In the English courts: - Shelford on Lunatics, 375; Matter
of Janaway, 7 Price, 690.
"If a conveyance were made by an infant, even under the
order of the court, it would not be valid, if he were not within
the act of Parliament. These things, I am sorry to observe,
pass too often sub silentio." By the Lord Chief Baron, in The
King v. Inhabitants of Washbrook, 4 Barn..& Cres. 732.
There are many ,cases in this court, which go to the same
point. Griffith v. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9 ; Thatcher v. Powell, 6
44
vOL. yii.

518

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al v. Berry.

Wheaton, 119; Elliot v. Peirsol, 1 Pet. 340; Bank of Hamil-.
ton v. Dudley's Lessee, 2 Pet. 523 ; Wilcox v. 'Jaekson, 13 Pet.
498; Shriver's Lessee v. Lynn, 2 How. 43; Lessee of Hickey
v. Stewart, 3 How. 750.
In this case the "subject-matter" over which the'Chancellor
had jurisdiction by these private statutes was not the real estate, for then he might have authorized its alienation by another person than Mr. Clarke ; nor was it every alienation by him,
for then a mortgage or an exchange might have been authorized under the first act; but it was to determine whether or
not the circumstances were such as to justify his assent to a
sale or mortgage for cash, and upon a sale or mortgage to superintend the application of the proceeds. When he went beyond this, his act was coram non judice, and void.
There are two fatal errors in the Chancellor's order of the
17th of March: 1. He could not-delegate his power to a master at all., The
authority was persdnal, and to be, exercised by himself. It was
not the discretion of a inaster, but the discretion of the Chancellor, that was trusted.
2. He could not authop~ze a conveyance in satisfaction of
Mr. Clarke's debts. The statutes gave him no such authority;
and if they had, they would have been void, for the Legisla.ture had not power to appropriate one person's property to the
debts of another.
And even if it were held, that the Chancellor could delegate
the power of consenting, and the order were construed to allow
a sale with the consent 'of a master, there would be a further
and insurmountable objection to it ; that the consent of the
Chancellor, either directly or through a master, could not be
dispensed with, according to the letter or spirit'of the statutes.
The Chancellor conferred upon Mr. Clarke no portion of his
authority ; that came directly from the statutes. The Chancellor could neither give it, nor enlarge it. The lands, if they
passed at all, passed by force of the statutes. The Chancellor
had no power, except to dissent from the sale ; to interpose his
veto. He could not even. compel Mr. Clarke to act; he could
only say when he should not act, and if he acted, what sh6uld
be done with the proceeds of the estate.
"Sixth Point.- The subsequent conveyance of a part-of the
property to a purchaser, for value, and without notice of the
defect in the title, did'pot make the title valid, as against the
plaintiffs.
This is "so upon general principles. If the conveyance by
Mr. Clarke did not divest the plaintiffs', title, the subsequent

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

519

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

transfer did not. There is no principle of law which woul"
miake De Grasse give a better title than he had.
•In most of the cases, upon defective execution of authority,
the property was in the hands of innocent'holders. Wilson v.
Sewall, 1 B1. 617; Bloom v. Burdick, 1 Hill, 130; Rogers v.
Dill, 6 Hill, 415.
There is no room here for an estoppel. Thechillren were
neither parties nor privies .to the conveyance to De Grasse.
They take as .devisees under the will. See Roe v. York, 6
East, 86; Roxburghe Feu case, 2. Dow. 189.
11r. John Jay, for defendant.
Defendant's Points on the Eight Questions stated in the Certificate.
I. The acts of the Legislature stated in the case divested the
estate of the trustees under the will of Mary Clarke, and vested the whole estate in fee in Thomas B. Clarke, as trustee in
their place and stead.
1. To dqtermine the meaning and scope of these acts, we
must discover .what were then', understood to be the interests
and rights of the parties to be affected by them ; and for this
purpose we mqst refer to the judicial decisions which governed
the courts and the Legislature at th6 time of their enactment,
even ,though these decisions have been departed from by later
judges; for it would be contrary to the first principles of law
and justice to give to long subsequent adjudications a retroactive operation in the interpretation of ancient statutes; andsuch a course would lead to the worst evils of ex postfacto
legislation in regard to vested and. sacred r:ghts. 2 Inst. 292;
1 Kent's Com. 461; Doe v. Allen, 8 Term R. 504, per Ld.
Kenyon.
2. The trustees under the will took the legal estate in fee
in the premises in question. This is clear from the language
of the devise, and from the powers given to them to lease
the premises during Clarke's life, and to convey to, the parties who should become entitled to the same on his decease.
3. The children, as they came in esse, were then supposed
to take, under the will of Mary Clarke, (according to the uniform ruling of all the courts, both in England and America,
at that time, and for a long time previously,) not a vested.
remainder in fee, liable to open and let in after-born children,
and subject to be defeated by their death during Clarke's life,
but simply a contingent remainder dependent upon their surviving their father, and that remainder (excepting so far as.

520

SUPREME

COURT.

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

their interest in the premises was enlarged by the acts of the
Legislature passed with Clarke's assent) was then regarded
as amounting, during their father's life, to a mere presumptive title, a naked possibility, uncoupled with any immediate
beneficial interest.
Denn ex dem. Radcliffe v. Bagshaw, 6
Term R. 512, in the King's Bench, per Lord Kenyon, and
all the judges, in the year 1796. Doe v. Scudamore, 2 Bos.
& Pul. 289, per Lord Eldon, C. J., and Heath, Brooke, and
Chambre, J.J., in 1800. Roe v. Briggs, 16 East, 406, per Ld.
Ch. J. Ellenborough, in 1802 -"
That no case had been
shown where an estate depending on such a contingency had
ever been held vested."
Doe v. Provost, 4 Johns. 61, in 1809,
per Justice Van Ness; Kent, C. J., and Thompson and Yates,
J. J., concurring. See this case commented upon and sustained in Hawley v. James, 16 Wend. 242 et seq. Dunwoodie v.
Reed, 3 Serg. & Rawle, 435, in 1817, per Tilghman, 0. J., and
Gibson, J. See remarks of Savage, C. J., in Coster v. Lorrillard, 14 Wend. 311, on the question of remainders dependent
on survivorship, showing the conflicting definitions of the statute and common law, and thus accounting for the discrepancy
between the former and the later decisions. See note, 4 Kent's
Com. 261, on the case of Jackson v. Waldron, 13 Wend. 178,
affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court in Pelletrau v.
Jackson, 11 Wend. 121, per Nelson, J. 2 Blackstone's Com.
170; Fearne on Contingent Remainders and Executory Devises; Preston on Abstracts, 21; Cruise, title 16, Remainder,
ch. 1, § 10 to 27; Jickling's Analogy of Legal and Equitable
Estates; Dixon et ux. v. Pickett, 10 Pick. 517; Blanchard v.
Brooks, 12 Pick. 47, per Shaw, C. J.(pp. 63 and 64) ; Davis v.
Norton, P. Wins. 392; Duffield v. Duffield, 3 Bligh, N. S. 260,
329, 355, par Best, C. J., on character of a contingent estate ;
Jackson v. Waldron, 13 Wend. 214 et seq., per Tracey, Senator.
4. Thomas B. Clarke, under the will, took an equitable life
estate, and after the transfer to him, by the act of the Legislature, of the contingent estate of Clement C. Moore, the whole
estate in remainder was alternate between Clarke and his children, dependent upon the like contingency of survivorship.
5. In whatever light the estate of the children be regarded,
the interest of Clarke in the premises in question was larger
than theirs ; for the life estate was absolutely his, and the remainder was limited on the same condition to each, - to wit,
survivorship ; and as the case shows that one moiety of the devised premises was carefully reserved by the acts of the Legislature and the orders of 'the Court of Chancery, for the benefit
of the children, it is clear that, in addition to the benefit they

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

521

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

derived from the other moiety, which was partly disposed of,
they have received a larger share of the estate than they would
have been entitled to, had an equitable division of their relative
interests been made between them and their father when the
acts and orders were passed and made.
6. The acts having been adjudged constitutional and valid,
the only question here is as to their meaning; and since they
were remedial statutes, they are to receive an equitable interpretation, by which the letter of the act is sometimes enlarged
and sometimes restrained, so as more effectfully to meet the
beneficial end in view, and to prevent a failure of the remedy.
The intention of the Legislature is to be deduced from a view
of the whole, and the real intention is to prevail even over the
literal sense of the words. Dwarris on Statutes; 1 Kent's Com.
461; Cochran v. Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 365, per Bronson, J.
7. The first.act of the Legislature, April 1, 1814, discharging the trustees under the will, and providing for the appointment of new trustees by the Court of Chancery in their place and
stead, and directing that such new trustees may lease all or any
-part of the land for a term not exceeding twenty-one years,
and may sell or dispose of a moiety in their discretion, and declaring that they shall be decreed and adjudged trustees under
the will, in like manner as if they had been named therein,
clearly divested the trustees under thd will of their legal estate
in the land.
The trustees had no beneficial interests. They were liable
to be removed by the Court of Chancery. There was nothing
in their appointment under the will, and their acceptance of
the trust, which can be construed as a contract, of which their
removal was an unconstitutional violation; for the reason, among
others, that the Constitution protects only such contracts and
vested rights as are beneficial, and not such as are merely onerous; and in this case the objection could only be taken by the
trustees themselves; and they not only assented to the act,
but solicited its passage; and the change of trustees, being
avowedly for the benefit of the children, was within the clearest parental authority of the Legislature. Cruise, title Pivate
Acts; Townley v. Gibson, 2 Term Rep. 701.
8. The first act not only divested the trustees of their estate,.but provided for its transfer without diminution to new
trustees, to be appointed by the Chancellor. The second act,
of March 24, 1815, in the absence of such appointment, created Clarke the new trustee, clothed him with all the powers
specified in the former act, and, with abundant care lest any
thing should be omitted, authorized him to 6xecute and per44 *

522

SUPREMECOURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

form every act, matter, and thing in relation to the real estate,
in like manner and with the like effect that trustees under the
former act might have done; and made him, in like manner,
responsible to the Chancellor for his faithful "management of
the estate thereby vested in Thomas B. Clarke."
The "estate" here spoken of could only have been the land, as there
were tien no proceeds for investment. And the third act,
passed March 29, 1816, again distinctly recognized him "as
trustee under the will of Mary Clarke." He could not have
been the trustee for himself; for that trust had merged in the
legal estate; he was therefore trustee only of the remainder.
9. The acts cannot be fairly construed as conferring upon
Clarke only a power in trust ; for, apart from the express recognition of him by the second act, as vested with the estate, the
intention to vest it in him may be collected from all the acts
taken together. To suppose that the legal estate was intended
to be left in the original trustees, after they were "discharged
from the said trust," is not only unreasonable, but utterly irreconcilable with the exercise by Clarke of the rights and duties conferred and imposed upon him,- such as the leasing all
or any part of the land (§,5, Act of April 1, 1814),. receiving
the rents and profits, and doing other acts requiring and implying the possession of a legal estate. Goodright on dem. Revell and others v. Parker and others, .1 Maule & Selw. 692; Doe
on dem. Gillard v. Gillard, 5 Barn. & Ald. 785 ; Doe on dem.
Beezley v. Woodhouse and others, 4 Term Rep. 89.
. The words "authorize and empower," in the act, cannot
have the effect of turning this into a mere power. They simply declare the trusts for which Clarke was already appointed,
and for the execution of which he was vested with the estate.
Brown v. Higgs, 5 Yes. 506, per Ld. Kenyon.
10. It has been judicially held, in New York, that the acts
did vest the legal estate in Clarke as trustee. Per Walworth,
Ch., in Clarke v. Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 377.
And this court will, in accordance with their general practice,
follow the ruling of the State tribunals. Swift v. Tyson, 16
Peters, 19.
II. The authority given by the said acts to the trustee to sell,
was not a special power to be strictly pursued, but he was vested with the absolute power of alienation, subject only to reexamination and acce mt in equity.
1. By the act of April 1, 1814, the broadest powers of sale
were conferred on the trustees therein provided for. By § 2 of
the act of March 24, 1815, the same powers were conferred on
Clarke in express terms. , He was authorized and empowered

JANUARY

TERM, 1650.

523

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

to execute and perform every act, matter, and thing in relation
to the real estate, in like manner and with like effect that trustees under the former act might have done.
2. This language is only consistent with the supposition, that
Clarke held the trust estate in fee under the will. It is irreconcilable with the supposition that he was acting under a spegial
power, to be strictly pursued.
3. The doctrine of naked powers is odious, as often leading
to grievous injustice; and the court will not so construe the
act, if it will bear any other construction. 4 Term Reports; 1
Kent's Com. 461.
4. The further provision of the act directing the annual accounting before the Chancellor, that the Chancellor might see
that Clarke had duly performed the trust reposed in him, was
personal to Clarke, and did not abridge the powers conferred
upon him as trustee.
III. and IV. The orders set forth in the case made by the
Chancellor are to be regarded as the acts of the Court of Chanciery of the State of New York, ard not as the doings of an officer under a special authority.
The Chancellor, in a court of law, must be assumed to have
had competent authority, under the acts, for every order which
he made in the matter, whether such order allowed a sale for
any other consideration than cash paid or not.
1. That the assent and direction of the Chancellor in this
case, required and given under the acts, was a judicial proceeding, not to be assailed collaterally in a court of law, was held
in the courts of Nw York by Mr. Justice Cowen, Clarke v.
Van Surlay, 15 Wend. 447; Chancellor Walworth, in Cochran v.
Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 378; Mr. Senator Verplanck, Ibid. ,384.
2. The accountability of Clarke to the Chancellor was a continuance of the accountability which rested upon the trustees
under the will, and which was expressly intended by the first
act of the Legislature (§ 6) to rest upon their successors, and
which properly belonged to his position as trustee. 2 Story,
Eq. Jurisp. ¢ 960, 974, 978; 2 Fonb. 36, note; 3 Ves. jr. 9.
3. The presumption of the acts of the Chancellor being judicial, even if no reference to the Court of Chancery had been
made in the former act, would result from the appointment of a
judicial officer having exclusive jurisdiction over matters of trust
and the estates of infants; and the fact that the rights of Clarke,
as life tenant and contingent remainder-man, and the rights of
the children in the proceeds of sales aind in the profits, required
judicial adjustment, not according to the technical and. unbending rules of the common law. but at the hands of the presiding

524

SUPRE'ME COUR.T.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

officer of the high court of equity, having authority to take a
wider range, as the interest of the parties might require. Fisher v. Fields, 10 Johns. 505, per Kent, Ch.; 2 Story, Eq.
Jurisp. § 331.
4. The contemporaneous action, under the acts, by the Chancellor, was judicial, and not ministerial, and that action is evidence of the true construction of the acts. The act of 1816
refers to the proceedings already had by the Chancellor, and
adopts them, and thus- gives a legislative exposition of the prior act, showing them to have been judicial; and being judicial,
they cannot be impeached collaterally.
5. That the Chancellor regarded his acts as the acts, not of
an individual, but of the High Court of Chancery, and that he
regarded that court as having exclusive jurisdiction in the future of all matters connected with the sales and mortgages, is
clear from the repeated permission given in the successive orders to "all parties interested, or to become interested, in the
premises, to apply to the court at any time or times thereafter,
for further orders or directions."
6. Of that permission the plaintiffs should have availed themselves, if Clarke had in any thing abused his powers, to enforce
the trust and recover the purchase-money, instead of seeking to
review the orders of a Court of Chancery in ejectment suits at
common law. Mitford's Pleadings, 133; 2 Story, Eq. Jurisp.
§1 127; 2 Madd. Oh. 125; Potter v. Gardner, 12 Wheaton, 499,
per Marshall, C. J.
V. and VI. The deed executed by Clarke to De Grasse, for the
premises in question, is valid, even if it were given for a consideration other than cash paid on the purchase, (of which there is
no proper evidence,) and without having a certificate indorsed
thereon, that it was approved by a master in chancery, supposing Clarke to have taken only a power in trust.
1.. Under the acts of the Legislattire Clarke had authority to
sell and dispose of the land, in such manner, and upon such
terms, as he might deem best for the interest of the several parties. The Chancellor had full authority under the acts to assent to, a sale in satisfaction, if Clarke thought such a disposition of the land expedient, the terms being altogether in
Clarke's discretion, and that assent being judidially given is not
to be questioned.
The rules fixed by the Chancellor for Clarke's guidance, in
regard to the valuation, and approval, and certificate of a master, in certain cases, were merely directory to the trustee, anil
not conditions precedent to the validity of the sale, and no
omission can invalidate the exercise of Clarke's power given by

JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

525

Williamson et al. v. Berry.
the act, nor of the deed to De Grasse given under it. Mineuse
v. Cox, 5 Johns. Ch.447, per Kent, Chancellor, in a closely
analogous case.
2. But the legal estate being necessarily vested in Clarke, as
already shown, the deed to De Grasse conveyed a title absolute
in a court of law, whether the conditions of the trust had been
complied with or not. The plaintiffs are estopped at law,
though not in equity, from impugning a deed duly executed by
the trustee, and their remedy for any supposed fraud or breach
of trust is in equity alone. Taylor v. King, 6 Munf. 366, per
Roane, J.; per Cowen, J., in Clarke v. Van Surlay, 15 Wend.
447; per Walworth, Ch., in Cochran v. Van Surlay, 20 Wend.
378, 379.
VII. The fact that Clarke had previously mortgaged the
premises in fee to Henry Simmons, did not at all effect his
competent authority to sell and convey the same to De Grasse.
The power given to Clarke as trustee was not one which
called only for a single execution. The words "either" and
" or"1 are not alternative, but distributive, and the beneficial intent of the act not having been satisfied by the execution of
the mortgage, the power to sell survived. Omerod v. Hardman,
5 Yes. 732.
VIII. If it be assumed, (which is hardly possible,) that Clarke
had only a naked power, that the rules fixed by the Chancellor
were conditions to its exercise, and that the loose and random
recollections of the witness who testified touching the consideration of the deed to De Grasse were admissible, and sufficient
evidence on that point, still the title of a bond fide purchaser,
without notice, cannot be questioned in a court of law, for the
want of the master's certificate required to conveyances in satisfaction, for the reason that the deed on its face was a deed for
cash, executed in legal conformity to the power, and the remedy of the plaintiff is in equity, where the payment of the purchase-money might be. enforced. Sugden on Powers, ch. 11,
%§ 1 and 2; Wood v. Jackson, 8 Wend. 32; Anderson v. Roberts, 10 Johns.; Jackson v. Terry, 13 Johfis. 471, per Thompson, C. J.; Astor v. Wells, 4 Wheaton, 487; Bean v. Smith, 2
Mason, 273; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 141; Jackson v. Henry, 16 Johns. 195; Jackson v.Van Dolsen,'5 Johns. 43; Franklin v. Osgood, 14 Johns. 527.
Further Pints in Favor of the Defendant.
I. By the act of March 24, 1815, it was provided that Clarke
should account annually to the Chancellor, or to such person as
he might appoint, for the principal of the proceeds of each sale

526

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

made by him, and if on such return, or at any other time, and
in any other manner, the Chancellor should be of opinion that
Clarke had not duly performed the trust by that act reposed in
him, he was authorized to remove Clarke from his said trust,
and appoint another in. his stead.
There is no proof in the case that the Chancellor ever removed Clarke, as he was bound to do, if he thought he had not
duly performed his trust, or that the Chancellor ever disapproved of the sale to De Grasse, or of the consideration thereof.
On the contrary, it appears from the offers of evidence made by
the plaintiffs, that on the 31st of March, 1836, Clarke was still
acting as trustee and making sales, and it is therefore a sound
legal presumption, that the Chancellor approved of this conveyance, and of Clarke's conduct generally ; for had he disapproved
of them, Clarke would have been removed or enjoined, as the
plaintiffs say he was, at the instigation of the children, at a later
period.
The Chancellor had been by the act "virtually made the
trustee of the property," (per Jones, Ch., in Sinclair v. Jackson,
8 Cowen, 548, quoted and approved by Verplanck, Senator, in
Cochran v. Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 387,) and the care and exactness exhibited in the orders contained in the case forbid the
imputation of carelessness or neglect in his fulfilment of the important duties specially imposed upon him, by, the Legislature.
He must be presumed to have done his duty intelligently, diligently, and faithfully, and that presunption which forbids the
supposition that the premises iff disfihte *ere disposed of fraudulently or improperly is to govern in this court until overthrown
by positive proof to the contrary. Best on Presumption of Law,
63, and cases cited; Co. Litt. 103 and .232, b; Dig. lib. 50, title
17; Sutton v. Johnstone, 1 Term Rep. 503; Cowen and Hill's
Notes to Phillips on Evid. 25, et seq.
II. The conveyance t0'De- Grasse was made 29 March,
1822; this suit was commenced in 1845. Although the marriage of Mrs. Williamson, in 1827, before the completion of
her infancy, has saved her from being barred by the'statutes of
limitation, the singular and unexplained want of diligence and
vigilance on the part of the plaintiffs in seeking to enforce
their claims, if any they had, to these premises, until after the
lapse of so many years of acquiescence and delay, and when
the true state of the transaction has been forgotten, or become
incapable of explanation, do not entitle them to the favorable
consideration of the court; for they have slept upon their
rights, and have thereby created a difficulty and imposed a
hardship, misleading innocent parties by their silence. 2 Ball

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

527

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

& Beat. 433; Hawley v. Cramer, 4 Cowen, 483, per Walworth, Ch.; Broadhurst v. Balgny, 1 Younge & Cq. N. R. 16,
28 to 32; 2 Story's Equity, §§ 1284, 1520, and cases quoted
in note c; Wendell v. Van Rensselaer, 1 Johns. Oh. 354, per
Livingston, Oh.; Higginbotham v. Burnet and others, 3 Johns.
Oh. 184, per Kent, Oh.; Roberts v. Tunstall, 4 Hare's Oh. R.
263, per Wigram, V. Oh.
II. The length of time which has elapsed since the conveyance to De Grasse, coupled with the fact that this very
deed has been sustained by the court of last resort in the State
of New York, after prolonged litigation, will incline this court
to give to the acts of the Legislature and the order of the
Chancellor, in questions of doubt, the most favorable interpretation for the maintenance of the. title, and the protection of
the rights of bond fide purchasers and encumbrancers. The
best interests of society demand that causes of action should
not be deferred an unreasonable time, and this remark is peculiarly applicable to suits in ejectment, since nothing so much retards the growth and prosperity of the country as the insecurity of titles. Per McLean, J., in Lewis v. Marshall, 5 Peters,
470. Per Marshall, .C. J., in Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, S. C.
360.
Mr. Wood for defendant.
I. The three trustees under the will of Mary Clarke took the
legal estate in fee, in the premises in question, in part. Thomas
B. Clarke took an equitable estate in said premises during his
life; and his children took an equitable estate in remainder in
fee; and Clement C. Moore took an alternate equitable remainder in fee, in case of failure of ihe iisue of said Thomas
B. Clarke.
II. Assuming Clarke to take a life estate with a limitation in
remainder to his issue, such limitations of remainders in the alternative are lawful and valid. Luddington v. Kime, 1 Ld.
Raym. 203.
1I1. The legal estate of the trustees was not executed by
the statute of uses, by transferring it to the parties entitled to
the equitable estates and interest in fee.
An important act on the part of .the trustees was required
to be done, viz. the conveyance to the children in fee after
the death of Thomas B. Clarke, or in the alternative to Clement C. Moore. The trust was therefore active, and not executed by the statute. Mott v. 'Buxton, 7 Yes. jr. 201. Leonard
v. Sussex, 2 Vern. 526.
IV. The legal estate in the hands of the trustees involved

598

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

the power to leasei such power being necessary for the production of rents aid profits of city property. Attorney-General v.
Owen, 10 Yes. 560.
V. By the act of 1815, the legal estate in the three trustees
named in the will was transferred to Thomas B. Clarke in trust.
1st. The language of the act shows an intention to transfer
it, and not to confer upon him a mere power in trust.
2d. It is not necessary that words of grant-should be found
in the act. The intention to vest him with the legal estate
may be. collected from the context. Euchelah v. Welsh, 3
Hawks, &c., 155. It is unreasonable to suppose the legal estate was meant to be left in the original trustees under the will,
after they were stripped of the trust, and when they had no
beneficial interests.
3d. Under the second section of said act, all the rights and
duties are conferred upon him which would have devolved
upon the trustees under the act of 1814, by the fifth section
of which they were to lease from time to time, receive rents
and profits, and do other acts requiring a legal estate.
4th. A legal, estate in trust may be implied even in private
instruments, when the acts to be done are such as to render it
proper and essential that the trustees should have the legal
estate, and not a mere trust power. Griffiths v. Smith, Moore,
753; Goodright v. Parker, I Maule & Selw. 692; Doe v.
Cundall, 9 East, 400; Doe v. Gillard, 5 Barn. & Aid. 785; Anthony v. Rees, 2 Cromp. & Jerv. 75; Carter v. Barnardiston,
1 P. Wms. 505; Thong v. Bedford, 1 Bro. C. C. 313; Striker
v. Mott, 2 Paige, 389;' Brewster v. Paterson, Court of Appeals,
S. P., on this same will, in M. 5; Doe ex dem. Beezeley v.
Woodhouse, 4 Term Rep. 89; Oates v. Cooke, 3 Burr. 1685.
VI. The act divesting the trustees under the will of the
legal estate in trust was not unconstitutional.
1st. They had no beneficial interests. Their functions were
under the control of equity; they were liable at any time to be
removed by the Chancellor. Livingston v. Moore, 7 Peters;
469; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters, 267, 660.
2d. The Constitution protects only such contracts and vested
rights as are beneficial to the party, not such as are merely
onerous.
3d. The objection could only be taken by the trustees
themselves, and they assented to the acts displacing their estate and their ftinctions. 2 Peters, 411, 413; Watson v. Mercer, 8 ib. 88; Sinclair v. Jackson, 8 Cow. 543; Currie's Adm'rs
v. Mutual Ins. Co., 4 Hen. & Munf. 315; Cochran v. Van
Surlay, 20 Wend. 387. This last-mentioned case is conclu-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

529

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

sive of the whole question, being the decision of the highest
court of the State on a local law.
VII. The sale and conveyance by Thomas B. Clarke, (he
having the legal estate,) though he may have departed from
his trust, was valid to pass the legal title, and the remedy for
any supposed breach of trust is in equity only, not in these
suits at law. 1 Sugden on Powers, ch. 11, § 1, 2; Jackson
v.. Van Dalssen, 5 Johns. 43.
VIII. Assuming that Thomas B. Clarke takes only a power
in trust, his conveyance is valid.
1st. The assent and direction of the Chancellor, required under the act, is a judicial proceeding.
2d. The presumption of its being judicial' results from the
fact of its being conferred upon a, high judicial officer, and the
rights of Clarke as life tenant and contingent remainder-man,
and the rights of the children in the proceeds of sales, and in the
profits, required judicial adjustment.
3d. The contemporaneous action under it, by the Chancellor, was judicial, and not ministerial.
4th. Such contemporaneous action is evidence of the true
construction of the act.
5th. The act of 1816 refers to these judicial proceedings,
adopts them, and thus gives a legislative exposition of the prior
act, showing these proceedings of the Chancellor to be judicial.
6th. Being judicial, the orders of the Chancellor are final and
conclusive, and cannot be impeached collaterally, though the
proceeding is of a summary character. Moody v. Thurston,
Strange, 481; 1 Douglas, 407; 1 Harg. Law Tracts, 446; 4
Greenleaf, 531; Henshaw v. Pleasance, 2 B1. R. 1174 (note
showing the decision overruled); Doe v. Brown, 3 East, 15;
Grignon's Lessee, 2 Howard, 319.
If jurisdiction, but irregular proceeding, final but on appeal.
If no jurisdiction, this also decided in Cook v. Van Lear; for it
is not the ordinary jurisdiction of equity, but jurisdiction under
special stdtute.
7th. If not judicial but ministerial, the terms imposed are
not conditions, but merely directory, and any omission does not
invalidate the exercise of the power and the grant under it.
Mineuse v. Cox, 5 Johns. Ch. 447; 5 Johns. 43.
IX. The sales and conveyances are valid to pass the title to
the premises in question, and complete a good defence in this suit.
Mr. Webster, for plaintiffs, in reply and conclusion.
I propese to maintain four propositions, which will embrace
all the eight questions, and answer theri :voL. vIII.
45

580

SUPREME COURT;.Williamson et al. v. Berry.

I. The acts of the Legislature stated in the case, while they
divested the estate of the trustees under the will of Mary
Clarke, did not vest the whole estate in fee in Thomas B.
Clarke.
II. The authority given by the said acts to the trustee to
sell, was a special power, to be strictly pursued.
III. That, even. if it be holden that the acts vested a legal
estate in fee in Thomas B. Clarke, yet that the same acts imposed conditions and restraints on his power of alienation;
and that he could make no lawful or valid conveyance, without
having first complied with these conditions and restraints.
IV. That the conveyance made by him, under which the
defendant claims, was not made in conformity with these conditions and restraints.
(Mr. Webster, after arguing in support of the above propositions, said that he would now ask the attention of the court to
a critical examination of the New York decisions, which he
contended to be as follows.)
It has been decided in the courts of New York, that the acts
of the Legislature stated in this case are cofistitutional.
It has not been decided, that the Chancellor's orders in the
case were legal, or within the jurisdiction conferred upon him
by the acts; but it has been decided, that, if acting within his
jurisdiction, the propriety or legality of his orders could not
be examined into, collaterally, in a court of law.
It has been decided, that the Chancellor's order made in this
case did not require that a sale, made by T. B. Clarke, when
made for money, must have been approved by a master; but all
the judges who gave reasons for their judgment signified their
opinions, that, when a conveyance was made in satisfaction of
a debt, such approval, under the Chancellor's order, was indispensable. But no case, turning on this single point, has been
adjudged in New York.
It has not been decided by the courts in New York, that,
under and by'force of the acts, T. B. Clarke took a fee simple
estate in the whole property. That question has not directly
arisen. Chancellor Walworth, arguendo, expressed an opinion in favor of the affirmation of that question. Chief Justice Bronson took the negative of the question as a point conceded.
It has not been decided by the courts of New York, that T.
B.-Clarke took, by force of the acts,'any such estate as that he
could make a sale or conveyance, which should be sufficient to
pass any title, legal or equitable, without conforming to all the
limitations and requisites prescribed in the acts themselves.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

531

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

On the contrary, all the courts, and every judge in Ne"W
York, so far as appears, has proceeded on the ground that those
limitations and requisites must be complied with, before any
estate, legal or equitable, could be passed by any deed or conveyance which Thomas B. Clarke could make.
All the courts and all the judges in New York have affirmed
that these restrictions in the acts do bind the estate, and restrain and limit, ab initio, the trustees' power of sale.
Therefore, Mr. Webster contended, the attempt now made by
defendant's counsel was nothing less than an attempt to overthrow the whole substance of the New York decisions.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause has been brought to-this court, to get its decision
upon questions of law, which were raised upon a case stated in
the Circuit Court, upon which the judges of that court differed
in opinion.
The suit is an action of ejectment, for the undivided third
part of eight lots of land, in the sixteenth ward of the city of
New York. -Te plaintiffs claimed under the will of Mary
Clarke. It wasradmitted by the counsel for the defendant, that
Mary Clarke-had been seized of the premises in dispute, when
she made her will, and when she died in 1802. It was also
admitted, that the defendant was the actual occupant of the
premises, when the suit was commenced against him.
The premises are a portion of a tract of land, devised by
Mary Clarke to "Benjamin Moore and Charity, his wife, and
Elizabeth Maunsell, and their heirs for ever, as joint tenants
and not as tenants in common," of "all that part of my said
farm at Greenwich aforesaid, called Chelsea," &c., "to have and
to hold the said hereby devised premises, to the said Benjamin
Moore and Charity, his wife, and Elizabeth Maunsell, and to the
survivor or survivors of them, and to the heirs of such survivor,
as joint tenants, and not as tenants in common, in trust, to
receive the rents, issues, and profits thereof, and to pay the
same" "to Thomas B. Clarke, " &c., "during his natural life;
and from and after the death of the said Thomas B. Clarke, in
further trust, to convey the same in fee, to the lawful issue of
the. said Thomas B. Clarke, living at his death. And if the
said Thomas B. Clarke shall not leave any lawful issue, at the
time of his death, then in the further trust and confidence, to
convey the said hereby devised premises to my grandson,
Clement C. Moore, and to his heirs, or to such person in fee as
he may by will appoint, in case of his death, prior to the death
of Thomas B. Clarke."

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

It was also admitted, that the trustees named in the will
were dead; that Thomas B. Clarke married, in 1803; that his
wife died in 1815; and that he died in 1826, leaving three
children, - Catharine, the wife of Charles H. Williamson,
plaintiffs in this suit. - Isabella, now the wife of Rupert Cochran, - and Bayard Clarke, all of whom were still living. Here
the plaintiffs rested their case.
The defendant then put his case upon conveyances from
Thomas B. Clarke, made, as he says, under legislative enactments of the State of New York and orders of the Chancellor
of New York.
The acts and the orders of the Chancellor under them will
be the subjects of our consideration only so far as may be necessary to give answers to the points certified to this court. In
other words, we will not discuss the quantity of interest which
the persons provided for in the devise took under it.
It is right, however, to say, that we concur with the learned
judges of the Circuit Court, that, Under the will of Mary Clarke,
the first-born child of Thomas B. Clarke, at its birth, took a
vested estate in remainder, which opened to let in his other
children to the like estate, as they were successively born; and
that their vested remainder became a fee simple absolute, in the
children living, on the death of their father.
The points certified are as follows: 1. Whether the acts of the Legislature, stated in the case,
divested the estate of the trustees under the will of Mary
Clarke, and vested the whole estate in fee in Thomas B.
Clarke.
2. Whether the authority given by the said acts to the trustee to sell, was a special power, to be strictly pursued, or
whether he was vested with the absolute power of alienation,
subject only to refxamination and account in equity.
3. Whether the orders set forth in the case, made by the
Chancellor, were authorized by and in conformity to the said
acts of the Legislature, and are to be regarded as the-acts of
the Court of Chancery, empowered to proceed as such in that
behalf, or the doings of an officer acting under a special authority.
4. Whether the Chancellor had competent authority, under
the acts, to order or allow such sale or conveyance of the estate
by the trustee, as is stated in the case, on any other consideration than for cash paid on said conveyance.
5. Whether the deed executed' by Thomas B. Clarke to
George De Grasse, for the premises in question, being upon
a consideration other than for cash paid on the purchase, is
valid.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

533

Williamson et al: v. Berry.

6. Whether the said deed is valid, it having no certificate
indorsed thereon that it was approved by a master in chaticery.
7. Whether Thomas B. Clarke, having previously mortgaged the premises in fee to Henry Simmons, had competent
authority to sell and convey the same to De Grasse.
8. Whether the subsequent conveyance of the premises, as
set forth in the case, made by George De Grasse, rendered the
title of such grantee, or his assigns, valid against the plaintiffs.
It is thereupon, on motion of the plaintiffs by their counsel,
ordered that a certificate of division of opinion, upon the foregoing points, which are here stated during this same term, under the direction of the said judges, be duly certified under the
seal of this court to the Supreme Court of the United States, to
be finally decided.
Our first observation upon the act of April, 1814, is, that the
first section of it gives to the Chancellor the power to appoint
trustees, in the place of those named in the will. This is to be
done upon the petition of Thomas B. Clarke, as contmdistinguished from a suit, by bill for such a purpose; and as occasion may require, the Chancellor may substitute and appoint
other trustees, in the room of these appointed under the act, in
like manner as is practised in chancery, in cases of trustees
appointed therein. By the last section of the act, the trustees
are said to be liable in all respects to the power and authority
of the Court of Chancery, concerning the trusts created by the
act.
It will be conceded by all, that the Court of Chancery, without this act, had not the power, under its inherent or original
jurisdiction, to change the trustees summarily upon petition, or
except by means of a bill filed by and against all proper parties, for such causes as trustees may be removed in chancery.
The second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth sections of the act,
except the last clause in the sixth already cited, prescribe minutely what may be done by the trustees who* might be appointed by the Chancellor, in relation to the land devised,
leaving nothing to be done by the court, except in its supervisory-power over the acts of the trustees.
Under this act, it does not appear that any application was
made for'the substitution of trustees in place of those named
in the will. The latter continued in their testamentary relation to the land devised, until after the act of March, 1815, had
been passed.
That act was passed'upon the petition of Thomas B. Clarke.
He recites a release to him by ClementC. Moore of his contin45 *

534

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et aL v. Berry.

gent interest in the estate devised, whereby he says himself and
his infant children have become the only persons interested in
the estate. And he declares that he has not been able to prevail upon any suitable person to undertake the performance of
the duties, enjoined by the. first act. He then prays for an
amendment of it.
Leave was given in the eSehate' of New York, that such a
bill might be reported, and it was passed into an act the 24th
of March, 1815.
In the preamble to this act, after reciting Clement C. Moore's
release, "1whereby the said real estate became exclusively
vested in Thomas B. Clarke and his children," it is enacted,
that all the beneficial interest and estate of Moore, or those under him, arising by virtue: of the act, to which this is a supplement; is vested in Clarke, his heirs and assigns, &c. And that
so much of the act as requires the several. duties therein enumerated to be performed by trustees, to be appointed by the
Court of Chancery, as therein mentioned be, and the same is
hereby, repealed. "
The power given by the first act'-to the court, to appoint
trustees, having been repealed, the second secti6n of the second
act is, -that Clarke is authorized and empowered to execute
and perform every matter and thing, in relation to the real estate mentioned in the act to which this is a supplement, in
like manner, and with like effect, that, trustees;-duly appointed
under the first act might -have done.. And-Clarke is required
to apply the whole interest and income of the property to the
maintenance of his family and the education of his. children.
Then it is enacted, in the third section, that no sale of any part
of the estate shall be made by Clarke, until he shall have procured the assent of the Chancellor to such sale; who shall, at
the time of giving such assent, also direct the mode in which
the proceeds of such sale, or so much thereof as he shall think
proper, shall be vested in Clarke as trustee; and further, that it
shall be the duty of Clarke to render an annual account to the
Chancellor, or to such person as he may appoint, of the principal of the proceeds of such sale only, the interest being to be
applied by said Clarke in such manner as he may think proper,
for his own use and benefit, and for the maintenance and education of his children. And if on such return, or at any other
time, and in any other manner, the Chancellor shall be of the
opinion, that Thomas B. Clarke hath not duly performed the
trust by this act reposed in him, he may remove him and appoint another trustee in his stead, subject to such rules as he
may prescribe in the management of the estate hereby vested
in Thomas B. Clarke as trustee.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

535

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

We have hitherto used the words of the acts. And shall do
so, as occasion may require, that Clarke's character under the
acts as a trustee, with power as it might be given to him by
the Chancellor to sell, may not be misunderstood; and that the
special power or jurisdiction given to the Chancellor in the
whole matter may be more apparent, when we treat of that
part of.the case.
The orders given by the Chancellor under the first and supplemental act, upon the petition of Clarke, shall have our attention, after the third act which was passed for Clarke's relief has
been noticed.
It was passed upon the memorial of Clarke. It recites, that
the Chancellor, under the act for his relief, did order that he
might sell the eastern moiety of the property in the act mentioned, but that, owing to the scarcity of money and low price,
no sale could be made, without a great sacrifice. And therefore he prays to be permitted to mortgage the property, as the
Chancellor may appoint, for the purposes mentioned in the preceding acts and order of the Chancellor.
The act passed upon this petition is, that he is authorized,
under the order heretofore given, or under any order which the
Chancellor might give, to mortgage and sell the premises, as
trustee under the will of Mary Clarke, and to apply the money
to be raised by mortgage or sale to the purposes required or to
be required by the Chancellor, under the acts heretofore passed
for Clarke's relief.
So much of Clarke's petition to the Legislature has been
cited in connection with its acts, to show that the latter were
coincident with, and not beyond, the relief for which he asked..
Both fix conclusively that Clarke is to be regarded as the
trustee only of the property devised, to sell or mortgage a part
of it, with the assent or appointment of the Chancellor. His
obligation is to account annually for the principal of the proceeds of every sale or mortgage which might be made, and it
is his right to use the interest of the principal for himself and
for the education and maintenance of his children. He is called
trustee in thq acts. In that character, and in no other, is he
recognized in the orders of the Chancellor. And, in the last
clause of the third section of the second act, it is said another
may be appointed in his stead, "subject to such rules as the
Chancellor may prescribe, in the management of the estate, hereby vested in the said Thomas B. Clarke as trustee."
His relation to the devised estate was changed by the discharge of the trustees named in the will, but his interest in it
was the same as it had been, with the exception of Moore's as-

.536

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

signment of his contingent remainder, and the power given to
the Chancellor to assent to the sale or mortgage of a part of it.
The acts of' the Legislature discharged the trustees named in
the devise, whatever may have been their estate in the land
under it, but, did not vest an estate in fee in Thomas B. Clarke.
We will now precede our inquiry into the jurisdiction given
to 'the Chancellor by the acts, with a few remarks, which will
aid in determining the extent of that jurisdiction, and what
would have been its rightful exercise.
Jurisdiction in chancery is inherent and original, comprehending now almost every exigency of human disagreement,
for which there is not an adequate remedy at lawv
Or it is statutory, meaning a new power from legislation for
the court to act upon particular subjects of a like kind, as occasions for doing so may occur. Examples of this statutory jurisdiction are the 43d of Elizabeth, called the Statute of Charities., The act known as .Sir Samuel Romilly's, giving a summary remedy in cases of breach of trust for charitable uses.
And another is the trustee act of Sir Edward Sugden, for
amending the laws respecting conveyances and transfers of estate and funds vested in trustees and mortgagees, and for enabling the 'courts of equity to give effect to their decrees and orders in certain cases.
Or, the jurisdiction in equity is extraordinary, as when a statute permits persons to present petitions to the Chancellor for
relief in private affairs, when the petitioner cannot, get relief by
,the ordinary course of law, or from the inherent power of a
court of chancery. Cruise, in his Title.33, c. 11, says, they are
termed real estate acts, and that it is a conveyance or settlement of lands or hereditaments, made under the immediate
sanction of Parliament, in cases where the parties are not capable .of substantiating their agreements without the aid of the
legislature, and wher6the carrying such agreements into effect
is evidently beneficial to the parties.
In these cases, it must also be recollected that the Chancellor
ats-summarily, ex yarte, 'upon the petition of the party
seeking
relief. Upon such petitions orders are given,
as contradistinguished from decrees in suits by bill filed. The last
are his judgmeit's upon the matters in controversy bet'ween the
parties before the .court ; the othbr 'being orders .in conformity
with whatever may be the legislative direction- and intent in
any particular case. Whatever, however, the Chancellor does
in eithercase, he does as a court of" chancery. 'It will stand
as his judgment, when it has been done within the jurisdiction
cQonferred, until it has .been set aside upon motion; as his

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

537

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

decrees do, until they have been set aside by a bill of review.
The acts for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke are of the last
kind. They are private acts, relating to a particular estate and
persons having interests in it ; -,- one of whom, Clarke, is empowered,'as a trustee, to sell a part of it, with the consent of the
Chancellor. Several cases of private acts for such relief as was
asked by Clarke will be found in the 33 c. of Cruise.
Tle acts in this case provide that the Chancellor may act
upon them summarily, upon the applicati6n or petition of Clarke,
and in each of them what the Chancellor can do is precisely
stated. In such cases, the court will not deviate from the letter of the act, nor make an order partly founded upon its original jurisdiction, and partly upon the statute. In other words,
it cannot confound its original jurisdiction in a suit with the
powers it may be ailthorized to execute by petition, either in a
public act, giving statutory jurisdiction to the court, to be exercised summarily upon petition, or in a private act providing for
relief in a particular case, which is to be carried out by the
same mode of procedure.
The Legislature of New York, in the exercise of its rightful
power to loose a devised estate from fetters put upon it by unforeseen causes, which weie defeating the objects of the testatrix, substitutes the Court of Chancery for itself, to give relief to
Clarke, to the extent that it is enacted, accor*ding to the man3ier of proceedings in such cases in courts of chancery.
The
relief, wanted by Clarke was permission to sell or mortgage a
part of the estate. Permission to do either, or both, is given
by the acts, provided it is done with the assent of the Chancellor.
For the jurisdiction or power of the Chancellor in the matter,
we must look to the third section of the act of the 24th March,.
181i5, and to the act of March 29th, 1816. Both shall be cited
in terms. *The first is, that no sale of any part of the said estate shall. he made by Thomas B. Clarke, until he shall ihave
procured the assent of the Chancellor of this State to such sale;
at the time of giving such assent, the Chancellor shall also di.
rect the mode in which the proceeds .of such sale; or so much
thereof as he shall think proper, shall be vested in Thomas B.
Clarke as trustee. And further, it shall be the duty of the said
Thomas B. Clarke annually to render an accoutit to the Chancellor, or to such person as he may appoint, of the principal of
the proceeds of such sale only, the interest being, to be applied
by Clarke, in such manner as he may think proper for his use
and benefit, and for the maintenance and education of his chil-

538

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

d ren. The act of- 1816 is, that Clarke "is authorized, under
the order heretofore granted by the Chancellor, or under any
subsequent order, either to sell or mortgage the premises, which
the Chancellor has permitted or hereafter may permit him to
sell, as trustee under the will of Mary Clarke, and to apply the
money, so raised by mortgage or sale, to the purposes required,
or to be required, by the Chancellor, under the acts heretofore
passed, for the relief of the said Thomas B. Clarke."
Such is the jurisdict.ion of the Chancellor under these acts, in
respect to sale, mortgage of the estate, and the proceeds which
might be made from either. No authority is given to convey
any part or parts of -the southern moiety of the said estate in
payment and satisfaction of any debt or debts due and owing
by Clarke, upon a valuation to be agreed upon- between him
and lis respective creditors. None, that he might receive and
take the moneys, arising from the premises, and apply the same
to the payment of his debts, investing the surplus only in such
manner as he may deem proper to yield an income for the main.
tenance and support of his family.
This was not an exercise of jurisdiction, but an order out of
and beyond it. The jurisdiction given by these acts to the
Chancellor ]is suggested by Blackstone, when he says, "A private
act of Parliament for the alienation of an estate is an assurance
by' matter of record, not depending upon the act or consent of
patties themselves. But the sanction of a court of record is
called in; to substantiate, preserve, and be a perpetual testimony
of the transfer of property from one man to another." 2 Wend.
Black. 344.
* It is not 'nworthy of remark, that the acts of New York now
,under consideration -were initiated and passed in strict conformity with the mode of legislative proceedings in passing private
acts. There were petitions, references to committees, and leave
to bring in bills. Nothing was done without the consent of the
parties in being capable of consent; and the acts provide for
an.equivalent in money to be settled upon the infants interested, who had not d capacity to act for themselves, but who were
to be concluded by what was directed to be done under the
acts. 2 Wend. Black. 345.
I In all this may be seen, too manifestly for any denial of it,
the'intention of the Legislature as to the office of the Chancellort, in the execution of its acts for the relief of Clarke. The
Chancellor's office, in respect to the sale of the premises, was to
substantiate and preserve a perpetual. testimony of the transfer
of the property, as a matter of record, to whoever might be the
purchaserof any part of it, in conformity with the way in which
a sale of it could be made.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

539

Williamson etal., v. Berry.

The beginning and the end of this affair are not unworthy of
remark, or of being remembered. The Legislature is first asked
to empoW r the Court of Chancery to appoint trustees, in the
place of those named in the will of Mary Clarke, to carry out
her beneficent intentions for her grandson and his children.
The father, being unable to support himself and his children,
asks that a sale might be made of a part of the devised premises, the rents, issues, and profits of which he was entitled to
during life. An act is passed, permitting the appointment of
trustees, giving a power to sell, and seciring to the children an
amount from the sales, thought by the Legislature to be only
an adequate compensation for the sale of land in which they
then had a vested estate in remainder, which would become
theirs in fee simple absolute upon the death of their father.
The next year, the Legislature is told that a trustee could not
be got. A supplemental act is passed, permitting Clarke himself to do all that trustees could do. Then follows another
memorial for another aiding act; to permit Clarke to mortgage
the premises, on account of sales not having been made, and
because they could not be made for a fair price. Permission is
given.. After other orders more numerous than the acts under
which they. were made, an order is given, permitting Clarke,
upon an agreed valuation between himself and his creditors,
subject to the approval of*a master in chancery, to convey the
premises to his creditors. Further, that he may apply the
money arising from the sales in payment of his debts, and invest the surplus in such manner as he may deem proper, to
yield an income for the support of his family. Thus importunity, beginning with an intention to obtain consummate control over a part of the devised premises, triumphs in the privilege given to the children to have any surplus invested for their
use, which may remain out of the sales of their estate, after the
payment of their father's debts.
The best commentary upon the whole is, that- its first result
was a conveyance from Clarke to De Grasse, for much of the
property, without the master's approval, for worthless wild taxlands in Penrisylvania or Virginia, for some money lent, and for
articles furnished Clarke from De Grasse's oyster-house. And
De Grasse held on to the conveyance, in defiance of the declaration of the master, that he would not approve the deed for
such a consideration.
It is under that conveyance, and another from De Grasse to
him, that the present defendant in ejectment claims title to the
premises in dispute. They do not give to him any title; either
legal or equitable, against the fee simple absolute which the

540

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

children of Thomas B. Clarke have had in the devised estate
since the death of their father.
Whenever the order of the Chancellor, permitting Clarke to
convey the estate to creditors or to apply the money arising
from it in payment of his debts, has been considered in the
courts of New York, it has been intimated that the act did not
give the Chancellor the power to give such an order. Judge
Bronson, in Clarke v. Van Surlay, 15 Wend. 445, says so. The'
same may be gathered from the opinion of Chancellor Walworth, in Cochran v.Van Surlay, 20 Wend. 384. Mr. Senator
Verplanck, in the same case, sitting in the Court for the Correction of Errors, says, -" I have already intimated my strong impression, at least as at present advised, that the orders of the
Chancellor were not in conformity with the acts, and that the
third act still confined the Chancellor to allow no other application of the proceeds of the sale than was valid under the
acts heretofore passed." "The order made under the first two
acts was in contravention of the statute so far as it allowed a
part of the proceeds of the sale to be applied to the payment
of Clarke's former debts. Nor do I think that the words in the
act of 1816 ratified the former orders, or extended the Chancellor's powers in future orders, as to the liberty of applying the
principal of the funds, of which, according to the acts heretofore
on this subject, the interest only was to be expended." In
this point, then, this court, in the opinion it now expresses,
will not differ from the courts in New York.
But we do differ with the learned judges and Senator upon
another point, common to the case before us and those cases in
which they expressed their opinions. Our conclusion, however,
contrary to theirs, will be put upon grounds not suggested when
they acted on those cases. Indeed, our point of difference is
not concerning a principle or rule in chancery; but as to the
the rule in Cochran v. Van Surlay. It was said
.application of
in that case , ' and it was the foundation of the judgment in it,
that a decree in chancery could not be looked into in a collateral way for the purpose of -setting aside rights growing out
of it. We concur, that neither orders nor decrees in chancery
can be reviewed as a whole in a collateral way. But it is an
equally well settled rule in jurisprudence, that the jurisdiction
of any court exercising authority over a subject may be inquired into in every other court, when the proceedings in the
former are relied upon, and brought before the latter, by a party
claiming the benefit of such proceedings; The rule prevails,
whether the decree or judgment has been given in a court of
admiralty, ehancery, ecclesiastical court, or court of common

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

'541

Williamson et al. v. B'erry.

law, or whether the point ruled has arisen under the laws of
nations, the practice in chancery, or the municipal laws of
states.
This court applied it as early as the year 1794, in the case
of Glass et al. v. Sloop Betsey, 3 Dall. 7. Again, in 1808, in
the case of Rose v. Himely, 4 Craunch, 241.

Afterwards, in

1828, in Elliott v. Piersol, a case of ejectment, 1 Peters, 328,
340. This is the language of the court in that case, - not
stronger though, than it was in the preceding cases: - " It is
argued that -the Circuit Court of the United States had no authority to question the jurisdiction of the county court of Woodford County, and that its proceedings were conclusive upon the
matter, whether erroneous or not. We agree, if the county court
had jurisdiction, its decision would be conclusive. But we cannot yield assent to the proposition, that the jurisdiction of the
county court could not be questioned, when its proceedings
were brought collaterally before the Circuit Court. Where a
court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every question
which occurs in the cause, and whether its decision be correct
or otherwise, its judgment, until reversed, is regarded as bind'ing in every other court. But if it act without authority, its
judgments and orders are nullities ;. they are not voidable,
but simply void, and form no bar to a recovery sought; even
prior to a reversal, in opposition to them; they constitute no
justification, and all persons concerned in executing such judgments, or sentences, are considered in law as trespassers."
This distinction runs through all the cases on the subject.
This court announce the same principle in Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Peters, 499, and twice since in the second and third volumes
of Howard's Supreme Court Reports. Shriver's Lessee v.
Lynn et al., 2 How. 59; Lessee of Hickey v. Stewart et al, 3
How. 750.
In the case in 3 Howard, the defendant in ejectment wished
to protect himself by a record in a prior chancery suit between
himself and the plaintiff, in which a decree had been made in
favor of the former, upon which the chancery court had issued
-a habere facies possessionem, to put him in possession of the
land. The record in the Circuit Court was admitted as evidence, the plaintiff objecting, and the court'gave judgment for
the defendant in ejectment. The case was brought here upon
a writ of error. And this court said, that, as the defendant
claimed property on the preiiises in dispute under the record
from the Court of Chancery, it would inquire collaterally into the jurisdiction of that court to try the question of title.
And it ruled that the court had no jurisdiction for such a purvoL. Vii.
46

_42

SUPREME

COURT.

Will.iamson et al. v. Berry.

pose; that the Circuit Court erred in permitting the record to
be read to the jury as evidence in behalf of the defendant, and
reversed the judgment.
.The point in Cochran v. Van Surlay and in this case is, whether the Chancellor did or did not, in a case for which he had
jurisdiction for certain purposes, exceed the jurisdiction given
to him for the special purposes of the case. Jurisdiction may
be in the court over the cause, but there may be an excess of
jurisdiction asserted in its judgment. That was Shriver's case,
in2 Howard.
Then the point of inquiry now is, exactly that which the
judges in the cases in 15 and 20 Wendell, admitted to be a
very doubtful exercise of power by the Chancellor. That is,
whether the order permitting Clarke to convey the property
to his creditors, at a valuation to be agreed upon between- them,
and to apply the proceeds of sales and mortgages to the payment of his debts, was an order within the power giVen to
him by the acts. Judge Bronson will not admit it. Chancellor Walworth puts it hypothetically, - if the Chancellor has
not exceeded his jurisdiction, but has merely erred upon the
question whether such a sale as he ordered would eventually
be for the benefit of the infants, Justice Bronson was clearly
right in supposing that the decision of the Court of Chancery
could not be reviewed in this collateral way. Mr. Senator Verplanck says that the order under the first two acts was in contravention of the statutes, nor does he think that the act of
1816 extended the Chancellor's power as to the proceeds.
Upon the point of looking into the jurisdiction of a court
collaterally, when a right ofproperty is claimed under its proceedings, we must add, that it prevails in New York just as
it does in the courts of England and in the courts of the
United States. In Latham v. Edgerton, 9 Cowen, 227, it is
said, - " The principle that a record cannot be impeached by
pleading is not applicable when there is a want of jurisdbction,
The want of it makes a record utterly void and unavailable
a matter that
for any purpose. The want of jurisdiction is.
may always be set up against a judgment when it is to be enforced,&'r when any benefit is claimed under it." See also, to
the same point, Fenton v. Garlick, 8 Johns. 194; Kilbourne v.
Woodworth, 5 Johns. 37; 19 Johns. 39; 6 Wend. 446. And
in the case, of' Rogers v. Diel, 6 Hill, 415,- a case of ejectment, - the chief justice ruled that the -power of a court of
chancery to order the real estate of an infant is derived entirely
from the statute.. 'Thus sustaining an objection collaterally to
proceedings and a decree in chancery which were regular in

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

form, but void in fact, on account of the Chancellor's not having jurisdiction or authority to make such a decree.
The operation of every judgment depends upon the jurisdiction of the court to render it. Though there may be jurisdiction for certain purposes in a cause, that jurisdiction may
be exceeded in* the judgment. And whenever the right to
property is claimed to have been changed under a judgment
or decree by a court, and it is set up as a defence in another
court, the jurisdiction of the former may be inquired into.
The rule is, that where a limited tribunal takes upon itself to
exercise a jurisdiction which does not belong to it, ifs decision
amounts to nothing, and does not create a necessity for an appeal. Attorney-General v. Lord Hotham, Turn. & Rn.ss. 219.
And such is the rule in New York, as has been shown by
the citation of cases from the reports of that State. But it has
been argued, that the rule will not apply in the cases now in
hand, because it has been decided by the highest tribunal.in
New York, that the Chancellor had jurisdiction, under the acts
for the relief of Clarke, to give the order permitting him to sell
the property to his .creditors in payment of his debts.
It is difficult for us to admit that the cases of Clarke v. Van
Surlay, in 15 Wendell, and Cochran v. Van Surlay, in 20 Wendell, were meant to decide that point, when each judge whose
opinion has been reported in those cases expresses an opinion
amounting almost to a denial that the Chancellor had jurisdiction to order or permit a sale in payment of Clarke's debts.
But admit that the New York cases are otherwise, we cannot
admit that the rule hitherto observed in the court, of recognizing the judicial decisions of the highest courts of the States
upon State statutes relative to real property as a part of local
law, comprehends private statutes or statutes giving special jurisdiction to a State court for the alienation of private estates.
It has never been extended to private acts relating to particular
persons, for the reason, that, whatever a court in a State may do
in such a case, its decision is no part of local law. It concerns
only those for whose benefit such a law was passed, and because the decision under it is no rule for any other future case.
It may from analogy be cited for the interpretation of another
private law of a like kind, but then the utmost extension of it
would be, that there would be two judgments in two private
cases, which only show more plainly that no local law had
been made by both.
The case put before us, upon several of the points certified,
is this. The State of New York passes certain acts for the
relief of Thomas B. Clarke, in relation to a devise of land, and

544

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et- al. v. Berry.

directs that the acts shall be carried into execution by the Chancellor of the State. In the course of the proceedings for that
purpose, he orders that the trustee, Clarke, may sell or mortgage
particular portions of the land, and permits him to convey
parts of it in payment of any debt or debts, upon a valuation
to be agreed on between himself and his -creditors; and that
Clarke may apply the proceeds of sales to the payment of his
debts.
The defendant in this action says he bought from De Grasse.
It is proved that De Grasse was a creditor of Clarke, and that
the consideration for Clarke's conveyance to him, except the
wild lands, was the amount that Clarke owed to him. Then,
in ordei to sustain Clarke's conveyance to De Grasse, he introduces the acts for the relief of Clarke, and the orders of the
Chancellor upon them.
This evidence raises the question, whether or not the Chancellor had jurisdiction to give an order, permitting Clarke to
convey any part of the property in payment of a debt. After
the most careful perusal of the acts and orders, we have concluded that the Chancellor had not the jurisdiction to give an
order, permittifig Clarke to convey, any part of the devised
premises in satisfaction of his debts, and that neither-De Grasse
nor his alienee, Berry, can derive from the order, or the conveyance by Clarke to De Grasse, any title to the premises in dispute.
This conclusion substantially answers the first four
points certified; but answers will be given in more precise form
hereafter.We now proceed to the other points certified.
Upon the first of them, relating to the premises having been
parted with by Clarke to De Grasse, upon a consideration other
than cash, we remark, that sale is a word of precise legal import, both at law and in equity. It means at all times, a contract between parties, to give and to pass rights of property for
money, ,- which the buyer pays or promises to pay to the seller for the thing bought and sold. Noy's Max., ch. 42; Shep.
Touch. 244. No departure from the manner in which a sale is
directed to be made, either under a judgment at law or a decree
in equity, is permitted.
In the acts for the relief of Clarke, sale is the word used and
frequently repeated. No other term, in reference to the power
given to sell a part of the devised premises, is used. The
Chancellor's *order is, that Clarke is permitted to sell. No
words are used in the acts to qualify the term sale. There is
not any thing to raise a presumption, that Clarke was permitted
to sell for any thing else than cash. Even the debts of Clarke,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

S45

Williamson et aL v. Berry.

which the Chancellor thought he- -hadthejurisdiction to order
the payment of, are directed to be paid out of the proceeds of
the sale.
We think, therefore, that the deed executed by Clarke'to De
Grasse, being upon a consideration other than for cash, is not
valid to pass the premises in dispute to De Grasse, or to his
alienees.
Another point certified is, whether Clarke, having previously
mortgaged the premises-in fee to Henry Simmons, had competent authority to sell and convey the same to De Grasse. If
Clarke could not convey the premises for which he was the
trustee to a creditor in payment of a debt due when the order
of the Chancellor was given, his having united with the master in chancery in mortgaging the premises in fee to Simmons,
as a security for a debt, could not, from any transfer of it by
the mortgagee, alterits character as a security for a debt, so as
to permit the assignee, who by taking an assignment of the
mortgage became a creditor, or any other person who became
his assignee, to receive from Clarke a conveyance of the premises in discharge of the mortgage. Simmons was a creditor
of Clarke. The assignee of his claim could only be a creditor in his place, having no other right to be paid by a conveyance of the premises, than the original creditor had. But in
truth the mortgage was discharged, .and being so, Clarke was
repla~ed in his trustee relation to the premises, precisely aq he
stood before the mortgage was made. He could not then,' ecause the land had been mortgaged in fee to Simmons, have
any authority to sell and convey the premises to De Grasse, for
the consideration of the debt due by him to De Grasse. But if
by the question it was meant that, becauge Clarke had mortgaged to Simmons, he could not mortgage or sell again after a
release from the mortgagee, thea we conclude that Clarke's
having previously mortgaged the premises in fee to Simmons,
did not prevent him, after a release from the mortgagee, from
selling and mortgaging the premises again, provided the same
was not done in payment of a debt, or as security for a debt.
The eighth point may be dismissed with two observations.
If the conveyance from Clarke to De Grasse did not give to
him a title, and we have said it did not, De Grasse could not
convey a title in the premises to a third person, though value
was received by him from the latter. Besides, in this case, the
paper under which De Grasse claims has recitals in it, which
would exclude any-person buying from him from saying that
he had not notice enough to put him upon an inquiry into the
title of De Grasse.

546

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

We are now brought to the .consideration of the point, whether the deed to De Grasse is valid, it having no certificate indorsed upon it that it was approved by a master in chancery.
It involves what has been the practice in courts of equity,
which, frqm long standing, habitual use, and unifoim judicial
acquiescen.e", has become law, -law in England, law in New
New York, law for the courts of equity ,of the United States,
and law in every State of the Union, except as it may have
been modified by the legislation of the States.
The usual mode of selling property under a decree or order
in chancery is a direction that it shall be sold with the approbation of a master in chancery, to whom the execution of the
decree in that particular has been confided. It matters not
whether the sale is public or private by a person authorized to
make it. Not that the approbation of the master in either-case
completes a title to a purchaser. It is only the master's approval of the sale, and is one step towards a purchaser's getting
a title. Before, however, a purchaser can get a title, he must
get a report from the master that he approves the sale, or that
he was the best bidder, accordingly as the sale may have been
made either privately or at auction. That report then becomes
the basis of a motion to the court, by the purchaser, that his
purchase may be confirmed. Notice of the motion is given to
the solicitors in the cause, and confirmation nisi is ordered by
the court,- to become absolute in a time stated, unless cause
is shown against it. Then, unless the purchaser calls for an investigation of the title by the master, it is the master's privilege
and duty to draw the title for the purchaser, reciting in it the
decree for sale, his approval of it, and the confirmation by the
court of the sale,' in the manner that such confirmation has
been ordered.
We have been thus particular, for the purpose of showing
the offices of the master in relation to a sale, and what'is meant
by subjecting a sale to the approval of a master, and to show
that such a sale, until approved by the master and confirmed
-by the court; gives no title to a purchaser of an estate, which
he may have bargained to buy. We do not mean to say, that
such cautionary proceedings upon sales under decrees and orders
in chancery may not be dispensed with, by a special order of
the Chancellor to pretermit them; but that such are the proceedings, when no special order has been given. Nor do we
mean to have it implied that a special order for the master's approval of the sale-was not given in this case.
The proviso in the order of the 15th larch, 1817, is, - "Provided, nevertheless, that every sale, and mortgage, and convey-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

547

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

ance in satisfaction, that may be made by the said Thomas B.
Clarke in virtue hereof, shall be approved by one of the masters
of this court, and that a certificate of such approval be indorsed upon every deed or mortgage which shall be made in
the premises."
Our interpretation of the order is, that the approval of the
master, and the certificate of it, are not confined to a conveyance
in satisfaction of debt, but that the Chancellor meant that the
approval and certificate should be given and be indorsed upon
every deed of sale and mortgage, as well as upon conveyances.
in satisfaction of debts.
It was also argued, that the sale to De Grasse was a judicial
sale. Unless a legal term of definite and unmistakable certaint3
in all the past application of it shall be made to comprehend a
transaction which it has never included before, the sale by
Clarke to De Grasse was not a judicial sale. By judicial sale
is meant one made under the process of a court having competent authority to order it, by an officer legally appointed and
commissioned to sell.
The sale by Clarke to De Grasse was' an attempt by both of
them to evade the order of the Chancellor, that every sale,,&c.,
made by Clarke, shall be approved by one of the masters of
this court, and that a certificate of such approval be indprsed
upon every deed or mortgage that may be made in the premises.
And in no event could a sale by Clarke, in conformity with the
order, have been a judicial sale, but Simply a sale by a private
individual authorized to make it under acts passed for his relief, and assented to by the Chancellor, for the purpose of ultimately substantiating and verifying by a court of record the
transfer of the property. It was a sale- made without process,
not by an officer in any sense of the word, but by a private
person to a private person, after negotiation between them,
and done by one of them, who had only in a particular way
the assent of the Chancellor to sell.
Now if, in the instance of Clarke's conveyance to De Grasse,'
none of the usual cautions have been taken by the latter to
make the conveyance complete, -which, for the sake of the
present point, we are only supposing might haVe been done,
subject to our conclusion that Clarke could not have conveyed
the premises to him as a creditor, -whose
fault is it that they
were not taken? and how much more is De Grasse's fault aggravated from the testimony in the cause, which proves that he
was told by the master, AIr. Hamilton, from the start of his
buying or meaning to buy from Clarke, that he would not. approve the sale, and make such a certificate of it, upon the paper

SUPREME COURT.
-Williamson pt al. v. Berry.

given to- him by Clarke, upon such a consideration for the property?
We find the answer to our inquiries in the long experience
and practice in chancery. In any sale under a decree or order
in chancery, the purchaser, before he pays his money, must
not only stisfy himself that the title to the property to be
sold, is good, but he must' take'care that the sale has been
made'according io the decree or order. Colclough v. Sterum,
3 Bligh, 181; Lutwiche v. Winford, 2 Bro. C. C. 251. If he
takes a title under an imperfect sale, he must abide the consequence. In this instance, there was a perverse 'disregard by De Grasse
of the order of the Chancellor and the caution of the master.
His conduct puts it out of his power,. or any one claiming
under him, to complain, if Clarke's conveyance shall be declared to be invalid, on account of the master's disapproval of
the sale and' his refusal to put a certificate of approval of it
upon-the deed to De Grasse.
Mr. Hamilton the master's testimony in the case is, -that
Clarke and De Grasse cameF to him to approve the deed which'
it is his impression 'had been filled up by Clarke, and .that, upon
ascertaining from them the coniddrati6nhe refused to do so.
The deed, too, recites a consideration of two thousand dollars,
and it is proved that the consideration was, in fact, wild worthless tax-lands in Virginia or Pennsylvania, an account for articles furnished 'to Clarke by De Grasse, and some items of money
lent. The witness says, both Clarke and De Grasse came together more than once to his office on the subject, and that
he was besought by them frequently to approve the deed; that
he -would not do so. .' It is the case of an anxious creditor, holdingI on to what he could get from an insolvent and prodigal
'debtor, in spite of what he knew to be the only terms upon
which the debtor could convey.
We think that the sale by Clarke was a nullity without such
approval by the master, to whom the execution of the order
was confided by the Chancell or. "Looking merely to the
parties, it is a nullity, because it wants -the assent of the Chan6lfor, through the officer whom he substitutes for himself, to
give it. Looking t6 the conveyance, it is void for the want of
-the performance of that condition precedent which was made
essential, not merely to, the commencement of the estate, but
to the' very creation of the power of sale."
it is under 'that conveyance, and another from De Grasse to
him, that the defendant in ejectment claims title to the premises
in. dispute;. They do not give to him any title, either legal or
equitable.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

549

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

We answer, then, to the points certified to- this cotrt for its
decision :
To the first point, we rule, that the act of the Legislature,
stated in the case, divested the estate of the trustees under the
devise in the will of Mary Clarke, but did not vest the whola
estate in fee, or any-part of it, in Thomas B. Clarke.
To the second point, we rule, th- the authority given by
the said acts to the trustee to sell, was a special power, to be
strictly pursued, and that the trustee was not vested with an
absolute power of alienation, but only with the power to sell
with the assent of the Chancellor, subject, in all that the trustee
might do, by way of sale or otherwise, concerning the premises,
to regxamination and account in equity.
To the third point, we rule, that so much of the order set
forth in the case, as having been made by the Chancellor,
which permitted Thomas B. Clarke to convey any part or parts
of the southern moiety of the estate, or any other part of the
estate, in payment and satisfaction of any debt or debts due and
owing from Thomas B. Clarke, upon a valuation to be agreed
between himself and his respective creditors, provided, nevertheless, that every sale, and mortgage, and conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made by the said Thomas B. Clarke, in
virtue hereof, shall be approved b.y one of the masters of the
court, and that a certificate of such approval be indorsed upon
every deed or mortgage that may be made in the pemises, or
which authorized Thomas B. Clarke to receive and take the
moneys arising from the premises and apply the same to the
payment of his debts, and to invest the surplus in such manner
as he. may deem proper to yield an income for the maintenance
and support of his family,- was not authorized or in conformity to the acts of the Legislature, as they are set forth in the
record. That these orders, however, are t6 be regarded as the
acts of a court of chancery, exercising a special jurisdiction
under private acts, which did not give to the Chancellor jurisdiction to pass the orders as they have been stated in this answer to the third point.
To the fourth point, we rule, that the Chancellor had authority under the acts to assent to sales and conveyances of the
estate by the trustee; but not to any sale or conveyance, on any
other consideration than for cash paid on said conveyance.
To the fifth point, we rule, that the deed executed by
Thomas B. Clarke to George De Grasse, for the premises in
question, is not valid, it having been made for a consideration
other than for cash paid on the purchase.
To the sixth point, we rule, that, if the deed to De Grasse

550

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

had been otherwise valid, which we have said was not, it
would not be valid without having a certificate indorsed
thereon, that it was approved by Mr. Hamilton, the master in
chancery, to whom the execution of the order was confided by
the Chancellor.
To the .seventh point, we rule, that the mortgage in fee
of the -premises by Clarke to Simmons, did not so exhaust the
power as trustee, that he might not, after a release from the
mortgagee, sell or mortgage the property again; but it was
not in the trustee's power to sell to De Grasse for a debt.
To: the eighth point, we rule, that the subsequent conveyance :of the premises, as set forth in the case, made by George
De Grasse, would not give to his grantee, or the grantee's assigns,a valid title against the plaintiffs in ejectment.
-Mr, Chief Justice TANEY dissented from the opinion of the
court in this case, and also in the subsequent cases of Williamson and Wife v. The Irish Presbyterian Congregation of New
York, and of Charles A. Williamson and Wife, Rupert J. Cochran "and Wife, and Bayard Clarke, v. George Ball; and concurred with Mr. Justice NELSON.
Mr. Justice CATRON also dissented in the above enumerated
cases, and concurred with the opinion of Mr. Justice NELSON.
Mr. Justice NELSON.
I am unable to concur in the judgment of a majority of the
court in this case, and shall, therefore, proceed to state the
grounds of that dissent, with as much brevity as the nature and
importance of the questions involved will admit.
I shall confine the examination to those grounds which I
regard as decisive in the determination of these questions, without stopping to discuss several other points made upon the
argument, and which have a more remote bearing upon the
The will of Mary Clarke, made and published April 6th, 1802,
lies at the foundation of this controversy; and it is necessary,
therefore, to recur for a moment to its provisions.
She devised to three trustees and their heirs, a part of her
farm at Greenwich, called Chelsea, then situate in the vicinity
of the city of New York, now a part of it, embracing some
forty acres of land, together with a dwelling-house in town, in
trust, to receive the rents and profits, and pay the same to
Thomas B. Clarke, a grandson, during his life; and after his decease, to convey the estate to his children living at his death;
and ifle should leave no children, then, in trust, to convey the
same to Clement C. Moore, and his heirs.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

551

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

Thomas B. Clarke, the tenant for life, was married in 1802,
and in 1814 had a family of six children, the eldest eleven years
of age; and on the 2d of March of that year, applied to the
Legislature of New York for relief, on the ground that the prop-.
erty devised was, in its then condition, nearly unproductive, and
incapable of being improved go as to yield an adequate income
for the maintenance and support of himself and family.
The trustees, and C. C. Moore joined in the application.
On the 1st of April, 1814, an act was passed for his relief,
authorizing the Court of Chancery to appoint trustees in the
place of those named in the will, and providing for a sale of a
moiety of the estate by the trustees, under the direction of the
Chancellor; the proceeds to be invested in stocks or real security, upon the trusts in the will, and the income to be applied
to the maintenance and support of the family of Clarke, and the
education of his children. Nothing was done under this act.
On the 21st of February, 1815, Clement C. Moore, the ultimate remainder-man under the will, released and quitclaimed all
his interest in the estate to Clarke; and on a second application
to the Legislature for relief, a supplemental act was passed, on
the 24th of March, 1815, reciting in the preamble the release,
and substituting Clarke as the trustee of the estate in -place of
those provided for in the previous act; and authorizing a sale
by the trustee of a moiety of the estate, with the assent of the
Chancellor, and providing for the investment of so much of the
proceeds- in Clarke, as trustee, as the Chancellor should direct;
the income of the investment to be applied to the maintenance
and support of the family, as in the previous act.
On an application to the Chancellor, under this and the previous act, on the 28th of June, 1815, an order bf reference to
one of the masters in chancery was made, directing him to
inquire into the debts of Clarke, distinguishing bet~veen those
contracted for the maintenance of his family and the education
of his children; and into the then condition of the estate devised under the will, and the means possessed by Clarke to maintain and support his family, other than from the rents and profits
of the estate; which report was made accordingly. And on the
coming in and filing of the same, the Chancellor, on the 3d of
July, ordered a sale of a moiety of the estate, together with the
house and lot in town; and that so much of the proceeds as,
might be necessary for the purpose be applied, under the direction of one of the masters of the court, to the payment and discharge of the debts then owing by Clarke, and to be contracted
for the necessary purposes of the family, to be proved before
the said masters; and the residue to be invested and the income
applied as therein provided by the order.

552

SUPREME

COURT

Williamson et al. v. Berry.
Nothing was done under this order except the sale of a few
lots, the sales having been superseded by the master for wat
of bidders, at the request of the trustee, to prevent the sacrifice
of the property. -,And on application to the Legislature, another
act was passed,:oh. the 29th of March, 1816, authorizing Clarke,
as trustee, under the order already granted by the Chancellor, or
any subsequent orders that might be granted, either to mortgage
or sell the premises which the Chancellor had permitted, or
might permit,'him to sell; and to apply the proceeds to the purposes required, or that might be required, by the Chancellor,
under the previous acts of the Legislature.
On the 15th of March, 1816, on an application, the Chancellor
ordered that Clarke be authorized to mortgage or sell the moiety of the estate, as provided for in the several acts, as might
be deemed most beneficial to all parties concerned; and also to
convey any part of it in payment and satisfaction of any debt
owing by him, upon a valuation to be agreed on between him
and his creditors, provided that every sale, and mortgage, and
conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made by him, shall be,
approved by one of the masters of the court; and thaV the certificate of such approval be indorsed on such deed or mortgage
that may be made in'the premises. And furthdr, that -he apply the proceeds to the 4 ayment of his debts, and inrest the
surplus in such manner as' he may deem proper to 'yield an
income for the support and maintehance of his family.;
On the 2d of August, 1821, Clarke, under this Vkter of the
court, sold and conveyIed the lot in question, among 6thers, to
George De Grasse, for the consideration on the face of the
deed of $ 2,000. No approval of 'the master appeared to have
been indorsed on the deed.
The defendant holds through intermediate conveyances from
De Grasse, and is admitted to be a bona fide purchaser.
I have thus stated the material facts out of which the important questions involved in this case arise; and I have done so
for the reason, that, in my judgment, the statement itself presents a history of legislative and judicial proceedings, which
demonstrate that the legal title to the premises in controversy
is in the defendant, upon well established principles of law, a title derived under a judicial sale, made in pursuance of an
order or judgment of one of the highest courts in a State, in
the exercise of its general jurisdiction.
This plain proposition is manifest on the face of the record.
Every order made by Chancellor Kent was made in his court
according to the established formg of proceeding, and rules of
the court.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

553

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

The Chancellor had previously determined, (In the Matter of
Bostwick,'4 Johns. Oh. 100,) that a proceeding of this character
could be properly instituted by petition instead of by bill, as
he found it to be in conformity with the established practice of
the Court of Chancery in England.
The practice there had not been uniform, depending somewhat upon the amount of the estate; and a distinction had
been made, at one time, between real and personal estate;
but the later authorities had generally concurred in allowing
the institution of the proceeding by petition. (2 Story's Eq.
§ 1354, p. 582, and cases there referred to; Macpherson on
Infants, ch. 22, § 1, and cases.)
In every instance, the application took the usual course of a
reference to one of the masters of the court, directing him to inquire into the truth of the allegations in the peiition, and, report
thereon; and upon the coming in and filing of the report, the
order was entered.
All the powers and machinery of the court were used in conducting the proceedings; and which, while they facilitate the
orderly despatch of business, at the same time enable the parties
to present their case in the fullest and most authentic form, for
the judgment of the court.
Even if a bill had been filed in this case, -and we have seen
that it might have been, in which event, it would hardly have
been pretended the order or decree of the court could have been
questioned collaterally, - the forms of the proceeding could not
have been more strictly observed. Indeed, the petition in the
particular case is nothing more than a substitute for the bill, as
affording a more speedy and economical mode of instituting the
proceedings.
Originally it was supposed that a bill was indispensable,
(Fonbl. Eq., Book 2, part 2, ch. 2, § 1, note d,) as it still is in
England, where the estate of the infant is large, or it is doubtful
as to the fund. (15 Ves. 445; Macpherson on Infants, p. 214,
and cases.)
Any party interested in the order had a right to appeal from
the decision of the Chancellor to the Court for the Correction of
Errors,-as appeals may be taken from interlocutory, as well -as
final decrees, according to the laws and practice in New York.
That an appeal might have been taken in the case is the
established practice, and would be doubted by no lawyer there;
and which, of itself, would seem to be decisive of the nature
and character of the jurisdiction exercised by the Chancellor.
Being, therefore, a judicial sale under the judgmeht of one of
the highest courts of the State, the principle is fundamental,
47
VOL. VIII.

554

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

that the regularity of the proceedings cannot be inquired into in
this collateral way.
The general impression of all the cases on this head, says
Lord Redesdale, is, that the purchaser has a right to presume
that the court has taken the steps necessary to investigate the
rights of the parties, and that it has on investigation properly
decreed a sale (1 Sch. & Lef. 597). And says Mr. Justice
Thompson, in delivering the opinion of this court, in Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters, 168, - "If the purchaser was responsible for the mistakes of the court in point of fact, after it had
adjudicated upon the facts, and acted upon them, these sales
would be snares for honest men. The purchaser is not bound
to look farther back than the order of the court. He is not to
see whether the court was mistaken in the facts."
The defendant in that case held the title under a judicial
sale, ordered by the court in a case of partition, where the commissioners had reported that partition could not be made without loss. The suit was brought by the heirs, who set up, as
invalidating the title of the defendant, that neither of the children of the intestate was of age at the time of the sale. The
statute expressly forbade it, until the eldest became of age. 'The
other ground was, that the sal6 had been confirmed only conditionally. The court held the parties concluded by the order
and sale.
I shall not pursue the examination of this branch of the case
farther, as the principle upon which it rests has become incorporated into the very elements of the law. I have referred
to these two cases, simply to illustrate the strength and force
of the principle, in protecting the title of a bond fide purchaser,
standing in the relation of the present defendant.
But it has been argued,that Chancellor Kentwhile sitting in his
court, administering the law under these acts of the Legislature
of New York, has misconstrued or misapprehended the "nature
of his jurisdiction; and that, instead of sitting as a court, he
was acting in the subordinate character of a commissioner, or as
an individual outside of his court; that it was an extraordinary
power, conferred upon him by a special statute, prescribing the
course of proceeding; and that any departure therefrom, or
error in the proceedings, yendered the order null and void, and
of course all acts done under it.
It was even intimated, though not argued, that the statutes
themselves were unconstitutional; that it was not competent
for the Legislature to authorize the sale of the real estate of infants for their maintenance and support, or for their education
or advancement in life.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

555

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

We suppose this power will be found to exist in every civilized government, that acknowledges a superintending and protecting power over those of its citizens or subjects who are disabled through infancy or infirmity from taking care of themselves; and that, where they possess the means" of themselves,
they will be applied, under the direction of the proper authority,
to their support and nourishment.
No one doubts the power of the government to take the property of the citizen to support the paupers of the State; and, surely, it can hardly be regarded as a very great stretch -f power to
provide for the application of it to the maintenance and support
of the ownei or proprietor himself, or even to the support of
members of the same family.
But I shall not go into this question; for whatever may be
the objections to the exercise of the legislative powers, we are
not aware of any on the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States, or, if made, that there is any fouindation for it; and as to the State of New York, where the question alone must be determined, no doubt is entertained there in
respect to it, by any department of the government.
But to recur to the jurisdiction of the Chancellor.
The Court of Chancery possesses an inherent jurisdiction,
which extends to the care of the persons of infants so far as
is necessary for their protection and education; and also to the
care of their property, real and personal, for its due management, and preservation, and proper application for their maintenance.
The court is the general guardian, and, on the institution of
proceedings therein involving rights of person or property concerning them, they are regarded as wards of the court, and as
under its special cognizance aid protection ;- and no act can be
done affecting either person or property, or the condition of infants, except under the express or implied direction, of the court
itself; and every act done without such direction is treated as
a violation of the authority of the court, and the offending party deemed guilty of a contempt, and treated accordingly. (2
Story's Eq. §§ 1341, 1352, 1353; 3 Johns. Ch. 49; 4 ib. 378;
2 ib. 542; 6 Paige, 391, 366; 10 Ves. 52; Macpherson on the
Law of Infants, p. 103, App'x, 1; Hughes v. Science, 3 Atk.
601, S. C.)
If the father is not able to maintain his children, the court
will order maintenance out of their own estate; and the inability need.not depend upon insolvency, but inability, from limited means, to give the child an education suitable to the fortune possessed or expected. (Buckworth v. Buckworth, 1 -Cox,

556

C
SUPREMEFi, c

RT.-

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

80; Jervoise v. Silk, Coop. 52.) The allowance will be made,
although the devise or settlement under which the property is
held contains no direction for maintenance (Ibid.), but even directs the income to accumulate. (5 Yes. 194, 195, note, 197,
note; 10 ib. 44; 4 Sim. 132; Macpherson, ch. 21, § 2, p. 223.)
It is also settled, that where there are legacies to a class of
children, for whom it would be beneficial that maintenance
should be allowed, though the will does not authorize it, but
directs an accumulation of the income, and the principal, with
the accumulation, to be paid over at twenty-one, with survivorship in case any should die under age, the court will direct
maintenance (11 Yes. 606; 12 ib. 204; 2 Swanst. 436); but if
there is a gift over, it will not be allowed without the consent
of the ultimate devisee. (14 Yes. 202; 5 ib. 195, note ; Ward
on Legacies, 303; Macpherson, pp. 232, 233, 234.)
So the court will break in upon the principal, where the income is insufficient for maintenance and education (1 Jac. &
Walk. 253; 1 Russ & Mylne, 575, 499); and will break in upon
it for past payments (2 Vein. 137; 2 P; Wins. 23); and where
the father is unable to maintain his children, and has contracted
debts for this purpose, or for their education, the court will direct
a reimbursement out of the children's estate (6 Ves. 424, 454;
1 Bro. C. C. 387; Macpherson, § 9, p. 246); and will, if the father or mother is in narrow circumstances, in fixing the allowance, have regard to them, increasing it for the benefit of the family. (1Yes. 160; 2 Bro. . C. 231; 1 Beav. 202; 1 Cox, 179.)
The management and disposition of the estates of infants,
which I have thus referred to, and briefly stated, with the authorities, are among the mass of powers upon this subject which
belong to the original and inherent jurisdiction of the Court of
Chancery. They relate to their personal, and the income of
their real, estate, the court having no inherent power to direct a
sale of the latter for their maintenance or education; that power
rests with the Legislature. It will be seen, therefore, that the
only additional authority conferred upon the Chancellor, by the
acts of the Legislature in question, was the power to direct the
sale of the real estate,- to convert it into personalty for the purposes mentioned. It was but an enlargement, in this respect,
of the existing jurisdiction of the court; placing the real estate,
for the purpose of maintenance and education, upon the same
footing as the personalty. With this exception, every power
conferred or exercised under the acts in question, in the management and application of the fund, as we have seen, belonged
inherently to its general jurisdiction; and its exercise in the
particular case was as essential for the proper management and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

557

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

preservation, and application, as in any other that "might come
before the court.
We can hardly suppose that it was the intention of the Legislature to confer authority upon the Chancellor in one capacity
to sell, and in another to manage and apply the proceeds for the
benefit of the children. And yet such must be the conclusion,
unless we suppose it was intended that the fund itself should
be administered out of court, and under the direction of the
Chancellor as a commissioner.
I must be permitted, therefore, to think, that Chancellor
Kent, familiar to his mind as were the powers and duties belonging to his court over the estates of infants, as well as in
respect to every other branch of equity jurisprudence, did not
mistake or misapprehend the nature of the powers and duties
enjoined upon him under the acts in question. And that he
might well conclude, that the .authority to sell the real estate
of the children, for their maintenance and education, was but
an enlargement of his general jurisdiction in the management
and disposition of their property for the purposes mentioned.
Indeed, the very objects of the sale pointed directly to this jurisdiction. How apply the fund for maintenance and education,- as commissioner, or chancellor? 'Certainly, he could
not doubt as to the intent or objects of the acts in this respect.
It was a fund to be brought into the court, and the children
were to become wards of the court, to be'cherished, and protected by its powers.
In addition to the judgment of Chancellor Kent himself, we
have also the judgments of the two highest courts in New
York, in the case of Clarke v. Yan Surlay, 15 Wend. 436, and
Cochran v. The Same, 20 Wend. 365, S. C.
That was a suit involving the same title, brought by one of
the heirs of Thomas B. Clarke, and depending upon the same
evidence. It was first decided in the Supreme Court of that
State in 1836, and in the Court for the Coftectjonof'Errors in
1838.
It was determined by both courts, that the title of-the purchaser was valid, on the ground, that he held under a judicial
sale directed by the Chancellor in the exercise of his general
jurisdiction; and that, having jurisdiction of the subject-matters, if any error was committed, either in his construction of
the acts of the Legislature or in the application of the funds,
it was not inquirable into in a court of law. The order.was
conclusive, till set aside, upon all the parties.
No member of either court that expressed-an opinion enternature of the jurisdiction. The judgtained a doubt about the
47 *

558

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

ment had the concurrence of Chancellor Walworth, his learned successor, who has presided in that court with distinguished
ability for the last twenty years, and is familiar with its organization and powers. If it is possible, therefore, for a judicial
question involving the construction of State laws to be settled
by learning or authority in its own courts, it would seem that
the one before us has been.
But there is another view of this branch of the case, which,
in my judgment, is equally decisive of the question; and
much more important, on account of the principle involved.
Where are we to look, for the purpose of ascertaining the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery of the State of New York?
To the judgment of this court, or to the laws and the decisions
of the courts of the State?
It should be recollected, that, in the trial of titles to real property held or claimed under the laws of the State, the Federal
courts sitting in the State are administering those laws, the
same as the State courts, and can administer no other. They
are obliged to adopt the local law, not only because the titles
are founded upon it, but because these courts have no system
of jurisprudence of their own to be administered, except where
the title is affected by the Constitution of the United States, or
by acts of Congress.
It has been held, accordingly, that we are to look to the local laws for the rule of decision, as ascertained by the decisions of the State courts, whether these decisions are grounded
on the construction of statutes, or form a part of the unwritten
law of the State. The court adopts the State decisions, because they settle the law applicable to the case. Such a course
is deemed indispensable in order to preserve uniformity; otherwise, the peculiar constitution of the judicial tribunals of the
States, and of the United States would be productive of the
greatest mischief and confusion,- a perpetual conflict of decision
and of jurisdiction.
In construing the statutes of a State on which land titles depend, say the court, infinite mischief would ensue should this
court observe a different rule from that which has been established in the State ; and whether these rules of land titles
grow out of the statutes of a State, or principles of the common law, adopted and applied to such titles, can make no difference ; as there is the same necessity and fitness in preserving uniformity of decisions in the one case as in the other.
This court has repeatedly said, speaking of the construction
of statutes, that it would be governed by the State construction where it is settled, and can be ascertained, especially

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

559

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

where the title to lands is in question. (12 Wheat. 167, 168; 6
Peters, 291.) In the case of Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al., 7
Howard, 818, decided at the last term, involving a question upon
the statutes of Michigan, the court say, - " It is the established
doctrine of this court, that it will adopt and follow the decisions
of the State courts in the construction of their own constitution
and statutes, when that construction has been settled by the
decision of its highest judicial .tribunal."
Now what can be more peculiarly a matter of local law, and
to be ascertained and settled by the State tribunals, than the
character and extent of the jurisdiction of their courts, and the
effect to be given to their own orders and judgments.
I suppose it will not be denied but that each State has the
right to prescribe the jurisdiction. of her courts, either by the
acts of her Legislature, or as expounded by the courts themselves; and that, if that jurisdiction is settled by a long
course of decision, or, in respect to the particular case, by the
authority which has a right to settle it, this court, professing to
administer the laws of the State as they find them, and acting
upon their own principle, as well as the principle of the thirtyfourth section of the Judiciary Act, cannot disregard the jurisdiction as thus settled.
It is no answer to this view to say, that the question here is
the construction of a private statute of New York. That assumes the very point in controversy. The point is, Can this
court reach the question involving the construction of the statute? That depends upon the prior one, whether Chancellor
Kent acted in the exercise of the jurisdiction of his court in
expounding the statute. If he did, the question upon its construction is concluded; and whether the construction be right
or wrong is a matter not inquirable into in this collateral way.
The case, therefore, comes down to a question of jurisdictioh, - a question which Chancellor Kent himself settled in
this very case in 1815, which settlement has since been confirmed by the highest tribunals in the State, and about which
no one of them there could be brought to entertain a doubt.
I must be permitted to think, therefore, that, looking, at the
question as an original one, Chancellor Kent was right in the
jurisdiction that he exercised in administering the acts in question ; and that, whether so or not, it belonged to the courts of
that State to expound.and settle the limit of his jurisdiction;
and that, when so settled, it becomes a rule of decision fdr the
Federal courts sitting in the State, and administering her laws;
and that therefore the order of the Chancellor in question was
conclusive upon the matter before him, and is not inquirable
into collaterally in a court of law.

560

SUPREME COURT.
"Williamsou et al. v. Berry.

But were we compelled to go behind the order, and to reexamine the case, as upon an appeal; we perceive no .difficulty
in sustaining it.
When Clarke applied to the Legislature, in 1815, for relief, he
was the owner of the life estate, and of the ultimate remainder in the premises, the residue belonging to the children; and
for this reason, doubtless, the act which was passed at that
time left it discretionary with the Chancellor to determine the
portion of the proceeds that should belong to Clarke, incividually, and also as trustee for the children.
And under this provision of the law, before any order was made
for the disposition of the proceeds, the court ordered a reference to the master to ascertain the amount of his debts, and
what portion of them had been contracted for the maintenance of the family and education of the children.
The interest of Clarke in the proceeds was properly applicable to his own debts, as well as to the debts contracted for
the support of the family; and after the coming in of the
report which exhibited the amount of the debts, and for what
puposes contracted, the order for the application of the proceeds was made. This is the order referred to and confirmed
by the act of 1816.
It, in effect, applied what was regarded by the Chancellor
as the inter6st of Clarke in them to the payment of his own
debt., the amount of that interest, as we have seen, having
been left to be ascertained by him in the exercise of his judgment in the matters. That Clarke had a considerable interest
is apparent, having united in himself two portions of the estate.
That the Chancellor erred, in the exercise of .his judgment
in dividing the proceeds of the estate between Clarke and his
children, according to -their respective interests, does not appear,
nor can it be shown from any thing to be found in the-record;
much less can a want of power to act, or an excess of power
in acting, be predicated of the exercise of any such discretionary authority.
Then, as to the application of a portion of the fund belonging to the children for the maintenance of the family, as well
as their own education.
From the cases already referred tb on that subject, we have
seen that ihis is-vithin the acknowledged powers of the Court
of Chancery,- arid of which it is in the habitual exercise, in
cases where the parents are in narrow circumstances, and unable to furnish the means of support. The application is made
for the benefit of the children, that they may have the comforts and enjoyments of a home, with-all 'the wholesome and
endearing influences of the family association.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

561

w ilia'msoil et al. v. Berry.

Even beyond this, small annuities have been settled upon
the father and the mother, in destitute circumstances, out of
the estates of the infant children.
It was a knowledge of these principles, which were familiar
to the mind of- Chancellor Kent, as was the whole system
of the powers and duties of his court over the persons and
estates of infants, that dictated the granting of the order
in question; and, in my judgment, so far as the power and
authority of the court was concerned, which is the question
here, it requires but an application of these principles to the
facts before him to enable us to see that it was well warranted.
Again, it is said that the children were not parties to the proceedings. The same may be said concerning the exercise of
all the powers of the Court of Chancery over the estates of
infants.
The answer is, the proceeding is not an adversary suit. The
estate is regarded as a fund in court, and the infants as wards
of the court; the Chancellor himself, as the general guardian,
exerting his great power, either inherent or vested by positive
law, over a class of persons specially committed to his care, for
their own benefit, for the proper management of their estates,
real and personal, for their maintenance and support, for their
education and advancement in life.
It is a proceeding in rem, the property itself in custodia
legis; and if a guardian had been appointed, it would have
been but a desecration of the power of the court, which, in the
proceeding before us, was exercised by the court itself, through
the agency and instrumentality of its officers.
The rule in respect to adversary suits against infants, requiring the appointment of a guardian, pendente lite, has no
sort of application to the proceedings in question.
It has also been argued, that the order of the Chancellor, authorizing Clarke to sell and convey the premises in question,
required a certificate of the approval of one of the masters of
the court to be indorsed on the deed; and that no such certificate has been given or indorsed thereon.
The deed to De Grasse was executed on the 2d of August,
1821; and on the next day it appears that the master was a
witness to prove the execution before the commissioner who
took the acknowledgment.
IaIt further appears, that on the same day, the master, having
had the life estate of Clarke in the premises previously conveyed to him, in trust, in order to complete the title, indorsed
on the back of the deed, and executedunder his hand and seal,
a release of this life interest to the purchaser, and duly acknowl-

562

SUP'REME PQURT.
Williamson et al. v. Berry.

edged the same, that it might be recorded in the register's office
along with the deed. This was done, as the master recites in
the release, at the request of the trustee, and for the purpose
of completing the -title.
One can hardly conceive of a more effectual approval, than
is to be derived from these, acts of the master; for without
the release of the life estate, which he held in trust, the title
could not have been perfected, and the sale" must have fallen
through. The release enabled the trustee to complete it, and
iniest De Grasse, the 'purchaser, with the fee.
But the courts of New York in the case already referred to
have held, that, upon the true construction of !he order, the
approval of the master was not necessary, as the direction in
that respect was limited to conveyances by the trustee in satisfaction of debts. Even if this construction should be regarded
as doubtful, or that requiring the approval was thought to be
the better one, inasmuch as this construction has been given
by the highest court of a State upon this very title, in a case
in which its judgment was final, the habitual deference and'
respect -conceded by this court to the deoisions of the State
courts upon their own statutes and orders of their courts, would
seem to render it conclusive.
This. view was directly affirmed, and acted on, in the case
of The Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley's Lessee, 2 Peters, 492.
That, as is the case 'before us, was an action of ejectment by
the heir, to recover a tract of land situate in the city of Cincinnati. The defendant held under a deed made by administrators, upon a sale under an order of the Court of Common
Pleas for the County of Hamilton, which possessed the powers
of an Orphans' Court.
The title depended upon the effect to be given to the order
under which the sale took place. It was made at the August
term, and entered as of 'the May term preceding. It was alleged that, though granted, at the May term, the clerk had
omitted to enter it. The law conferring the powers of the
Orphans' Court upon the Common Pleas had been repealed between the May and August terms; and the question was
whether the order was a nullity, or valid until set aside.
The sale had taken place at an early day, and the property
had become of great value. The case was most elaborately argued. The action of this court, independently of the principle
decided in the case, is worthy of remark.
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion, obseived,
that the case had been argued at the last term, on the validity
of the deed made by the administrators; but as the question

JANU 'RY TERM, 1850.

563

Williamson et al. v. Berry.

was one of great interest, on which many titles depended, and
which was to be decided upon the statutes of Ohio, and as the
court was informed that the case was depending before the
highest tribunal of the State, the case was held under advisement.
The State court held, that the order of the Court of Common Pleas, entered at the August term as of the preceding
May term, was cdram non judice, and void; and- that the deed
under which the defendant derived title was, of course, invalid.
This court held, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio should govern the case. I will give its language.
"The power of the inferior courts of a State," said the Chief
Justice, "1to make an order at one. term as of another, is of a
character so peculiarly local, a proceeding so necessarily dependent on the revising tribunal of the State, that a majority
consider that judgment as authority, and we are all disposed
to conform to it."
I will simply add, that the Court for the Correction of Errors
in New York possessed a revising power in all cases over the
orders and decrees of the Chancellor, and that that court has
held, upon- this very title, not only that the order in 'question
was an order efitered by him acting as a court, but, in expounding it, that the deed of conveyance given to De Grasse
under it did not require the approval of a master. Further comment to show the identity of the two cases would be superfluous.
But I forbear to pursue this branch of the case farther.
The validity of the execution of the deed to De Grasse by
the trustee, as it respects thd alleged want of approval, stands, 1. Upon the acts of the master in the execution of it, as a
substantial approval within the meaning of the order; and,
2. Upon the decision of the highest judicial tribunal of the
State, whose laws we are administering, that, upon a fair inter"pretation of the terms of the order, an approval was not essential.
It has also been argued, that, according to the true construction of the order, the sale should have been for cash, and that
'was otherwise.
here it,
But this is an action at law; and the deed on the face of it
show a cash consideration of $ 2,000. The nature of the consideration was not inquirable into, and should have been excluded at the trial. If the ,complainant had sought to invalidate the proceedings on that ground, he should have gone into
a court of equity, where the question dould have been appropri-

564

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson' et al. v. Berry.

ately examined, and justice done to all the parties. That it
was-nut examinable in a -court of law is too plain for argument.
The recital of the considerations can no more be varied by parol proof than any other part of, the deed. (2 Phillips on Ev.
353, 354, ,2 C. & H., note 289, and cases there cited; 1 ib.,
note 228, p. 384; 7 Johns. "341; 8 Cow. 290; 2 Denio, 336.; 4
N. Hamp. 229; 1 J. J. Marsh. 388, 390.)
I have thus gone. over the several grounds relied on for the
purpose of impeaching the title of the defendant to the premises in question; and, although in the minority in the judgment
given, haye done so, not so much on account of the magnitude
of the interest depending, which is great-of itself, as of the
importance of the principle involved; and upon the application
of which the judgment has been arrived at.
Notwithstanding several questions have been brought within
the range of the discussion, there are but two, in reality, involved in the determination of the case. 1. The effect to be"given to the order of Chancellor Kent made on the 15th of
March, 1817; and 2. The execution of the conveyance by
Clarke, the trustee, under this order.
-1.:
If the order was made by the Chancellor in -the exercise of
his jurisdiction as a court, his judgment was cbiiclusive in the
matters before him; and there is an end of that question.. It
affords an authority to sell and convey, that cannbt be controverted in a court of law. And the validity of, the' deed.executed under it stands upon an equally solid fohndation.
The title of the defendant, therefore, would seem to be beyond controversy, were it not for the principle against which
we have been contending, and which imparts to the case its
greatest importance, namely, the right claimed for this court to
inquire into the nature and character of the jurisdiction exercised by the Chancellor in making the order coming before us
collaterally; and as this court determines that jurisdiction to be
general or special, to refuse or consent to go behind his judgment, and reopen and rejudge the merits of the case; and-according- to the opinion entertained upon that question, to affirm
or disaffirm the validity of all acts and proceedings that have
taken place under it. And this, too, in a case where the jurisdiction thus exercised by the Chancellor has been settled by
himself in his own court, under the State laws, and affirmed by
the judgment of the highest judicial tribunals of the State.
It is apparent that, if this principle becomes ingrafted upon
the powers of this court, and is to be regarded as a rule to guide
its action in passing upon the judgments of the State courts
coming up collaterallyi a revising power is thus indirectly

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
'illiamson

565

et al. v. Irish Presbyterian Congregation.

acquired over them, in cases where no such power exists directly, under the Constitution or laws of Congress. For, if
the right exists to mquire into the kind and character of the
jurisdiction, without regard to that established by the laws and
decisions of the States, and to determine for itself whether the
jurisdiction is generql or special, and if the latter, to go behind
the judgment to see whether the special authority has been
strictly pursued, there is no limit to this revising power, except
the discretion and judgment of the court.
The principle will be as applicable to every State judgment
coming before us collaterally, as to the one in question. It
denies, virtually, to the States the power, in the organization of
her courts, to prescribe and settle their jurisdiction, either by
the acts of her Legislature, or the adjudication of her judicial
tribunals.
I cannot consent to the'introduction into this court of any
such principle, and am, therefore, obliged. to refuse a concurrence in the judgment given.

CHARLES A. WILLIAMSON AND CATHASINE H. WILLIAMSON, HIS
WIFE, PLAINTIFFS, v. THn IRISH PRESTERIAN' CONGREGATION

oF Tm CITY OF NEw YoRx.
The prnciples established in the precedmg case of Williamson and Wife v. Berry
applied to this case.
The circumstance, that the defendants paid to the grantees of George De Grasse a
valuable consideration for the premises m dispute, does not give them a valid title
against the plaintiffs.

THIS case was similar to the preceding one, in which the
same facts and principles were involved. The only difference
between them was, that the following point was certified in
this case, which was not in the preceding, viz. 8. Whether the defendants, who derive title bona fide, and
for a valuable consideration, by purchase through the grantees
of George De Grasse, as set forth in the case, have a valid title
as against the plaintiffs.
It was argued in conjunction with the preceding case, as has
been mentioned in the report of that case.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the points certified to this court are identical
with those certified in the case of *illiamson and Wife v.
VOL. viII.

48

