210

SUPREME

COURT.

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

for the Sixth Circuit and District of Georgia, pronounced in this
cause at the April term of that court in the year 1846, be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, and this cause is remanded to
that court, with directions to decree therein in conformity with
the opinion herein above expressed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE remarked, that the decree given in this
case was that which he wished to be given in the court below
But the judges of the Circuit Court not being of the same
opinion, the bill of complaint was dismissed, that there might
be-an early appeal to the Supreme Court. He concurs altogether in the reasoning and conclusions which have just been announced by the court.
Mr. Justice NELSON and Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to decree therein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

JOHN MAXWELL, ADINiSTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF ROBERT MAX.
WELL, DECEASED, AFPPELLANT, V. JOSEPH S. KENNEDY, JESSE
CARTER, MARY L. CARTER, HIS WIFE, DANIEL. E. HALL AND
DELPHINE HALL, HIS WIFE, AND MARTHA KENNEDY.
A lapse of forty-six years is a bar to relief in equity, although the creditor, during all

that time, supposed the debtor to be insolvent and not worth pursuing, where it
appears that for a considerable portion of that time he was in a condition to pay,
and the creditor might, by reasonable diligence, have discovered it, and recovered
the money by a suit at law.

Where, upon the case stated in the bill, the complainant is not entitled to relief by
reason of lapse of time and laches on his part, the defendant may demur.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The bill was filed in the court below by Maxwell, the appel-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

211

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.
lant, against the above-named defendants, as the heirs of William E. Kennedy Joseph and Martha Kennedy were his children, and Jesse Carter and Daniel E. Hall had married his
daughters.
As the sole question which came up to this court was the
correctness of a judgment of the Circuit Court in sustaining a
demurrer to the bill, it is only necessary to state the substance
of it.
The bill averred, that on the 10th of November, 1797, Robert Maxwell, the intestate of the complainant, recovered a judgment in South Carolina, against William E. Kennedy, the ancestor of the present defendants. The judgment was for £ 1,000
sterling, and costs, £114 9s. 2d., no part of which was ever
paid.
That immediately after the rendition of the judgment, in order to avoid the service of a capzas ad satisfaczendum which
had been issued, and also to avoid being apprehended for the
murder of the said Maxwell, for which he had been indicted,
Kennedy fled from South Carolina. Two or three years afterwards he was apprehended in Georgia, brought back to South
Carolina, tried and acquitted. At this time he wa§ stated in
the bill to have been insolvent. Immediately afterwards, he
returned to Georgia, where he remained for four or five years,
still insolvent, so that no effort could have been successfullOr
made to collect the above-mentioned judgment.
That after the expiration of that time Kennedy left Georgia,
without its being known to any one in that part of South Carolina where he had gone, until -about three years before his
death, when, some time in the year 1822, it was ascertained
that he was living in Mobile. That he was then residing with
his brother, one Joshua Kennedy, qnd apparently dependent
upon him for support. That when Kennedy went to Mobile, ,
it was in a foreign country, and little or no intercourse existed
between it and South Carolina, nor was there for a long time
after it had been ceded to the United States: That while Florida was yet a Spanish province, viz. in the year 1806, the said
Kennedy acquired an imperfect title to a considerable estate
in land, of which, -however, the complainant was entirely ignorant. That on the 13th of December, 1824, he conveyed this
estate to his brother, Joshua Kennedy, for the consideration of
$ 10,000, which, the bill averred, had never been paid.
That it was not until after the date of this deed, that the
complainant discovered that William E. Kennedy was living,
and he was then wholly without property
That in the year 1805, he had married a female subject of

212

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

the crown of Spain, who owned considerable real and personal
estate, all of which was settled upon her previously to the marriage.
That on the 9th of April, 1825, William E. Kennedy died.
Joshua Kennedy administered upon the estate, and returned an
inventory to the Orphans' Court, amounting in value to $ 267
Up to the time of Joshua's death, which took place in 1839, he
constantly represented his brother William to have died insolvent, and these representations prevented the complainant from
attempting to enforce the long-standing judgment.
That on or about the 22d of April. 1839, the heirs of the
said William E. Kennedy, viz. the defendants in the present
suit, filed a bill in the Court of Chancery of the First Chancery
Division and Southern District of the State of Alabama, against
the heirs and executors of Joshua Kennedy, and obtained a decree against them, which, on an appeal to the Supreme Court
of Alabama, was confirmed. This decree adjudged that the
deed of 13th December, 1824, was not made upon any consideration valuabfe in law, but for the purpose of securing an adequate provision for the children of the said William. It therefore further adjudged, that the heirs of William were entitled
to one half of the unsold lands, and one half of the proceeds of
all which had been sold.
The bill then proceeded to aver, that a compromise had been
made by the heirs and representatives of these two brothers, a
discovery of which was prayed, and that, when made known,
the share of the lands so conveyed to the heirs of William E.
Kennedy might be held bound to satisfy the judgment obtained
by the intestate of the complainant. It concluded with a general prayer for other and further relief.
One of the exhibits attached to the bill was a copy of the
decree just mentioned, in the case of Joseph S. Kennedy and
others, Heirs of William E. Kennedy, Complainants, v. The
Executors and Heirs of Joshua Kennedy, which decree was
passed on the 28th of November, 1840.
To the bill filed by Maxwell in the Circuit Court of the
United States against the heirs of William E. Kennedy, the
defendants demurred.
In May, 1845, the cause came up for argument upon the demurrer, when the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill.
From that decree the complainant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Dargan and Mr Bibb, for the
appellant, and by Mr Sherman, for the appellees.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

213

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

Mr Dargan,for appellant.
The only question that can be successfully raised to the bill
is the statute of limitations.
The idea of staleness is rebutted by the allegations of the
bill. On this I will offer no remarks other than those contained in the bill itself.
If I can overcome the statute of limitations, the decree must
be reversed. And I contend that the claim is not barred, because it is not within the statute. It is not every action of
debt that is barred by our statute. But, on examination, it will
be found that actions of debt, founded on lease under seal, bill
single, and penal bill for the payment of money only, awards
under seal shall be barred, if not sued within sixteen years.
See Clay's Digest, p. 327, § 81. And in section 82, page 327,
it is enacted, that scire facias in debt on a judgment rendered in
the State of Alabama shall be barred after twenty years. In
neither of these sections, nor in any part of the act, is a bar
created to an action of debt founded on a judgment rendered in
a sister State, or a foreign country
I think the rule of construing statutes of limitations is well
settled, and is this, - that all actions of.debt founded on the
grounds, or cause of action, named m the statute, are barred.
But that a statute that bars an action of debt on a foreign judgment only would not bar an action of debt on a domestic judgment, and vtce versa. To this distinction, Pease v. Howard,
14 Johns. 479, is a strong case. The court here say, - " It is
not every action of debt that is barred by the statute, but those
actions of debt alone, founded on the grounds named in the
statute."
Hence, if a statute should bar an action of debt
founded on a bond, this statute would be no bar to an action
on a judgment, or if the statute created a bar to an action of
debt founded on a judgment, this -act would not bar debt on a
bond or lease, nor will an action of debt founded on a statute
be barred by a statute barring debt on a lease, &c. 2 Har. &
McHen. 154, 1 Mason, 289.
In 2 Saunders's Reports, p. 64, we find this case - Debt on
award, plea, statute of limitations, and demurrer to the plea.
The court held, that debt on award was named in the statute,
and therefore not barred. So in 2 Mod. Rep. 212, we find Debt on a sheriff's return of fiers faczas. The court say,"This is an action of debt founded on the breach of a legal
duty as an officer of the court, and not on a contract. The
statute, therefore, that bars debt on a contract, does not embrace or bar this action, founded on breach of a legal duty '
This distinction is supported by so many adjudged cases,

214

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

and seems to be so well founded on reason, - that is, that a
bar created by statute to debt on one cause of action, named
in the statute, does not bar debt on another or different cause
of action, not named in the statute, - that I submit it with
some confidence it will be sustained by the court.
Now courts adopt, but do not create, statutes of limitations.
If a demand is not barred at law by statute, it cannot be barred
in equity. If then, there is no statutory bar, is there any other
bar to a recovery? Staleness of demand, when the demand
is clear and definite, and it has not been asserted because of
acts of defendant, (in running off, covering his property, and
superinducing the belief of insolvency,) I do not think will be
sustained by this court. What circumstance is there alleged
in the bill that will take away the right of recovery, in the
absence of any bar by statute ? It was on this ground that
the decree proceeded.
Mr Charles E. )Sherman,for defendants.
This case presents, in a striking point of view, the wisdom
of the rule of chancery as to the effect of lapse of time in barring demands. Half a century has passed awaf since tfe
judgment sought to be now recovered was rendered. The.
parties are long since dead, as well as tlfose who administered
their estates. The complainant and defendants in the present
suit were not born till long after the remote times spoken of
in the bill, and can know nothing of what was then done.
An entire generation has gone, and with it the evidences of its
transactions. In such cases, courts of chancery refuse to interfere. The bill, indeed, admits this, but relies on certain circumstances stated in it, to avoid the conclusions arising from
lapse of time, and to-excuse the delay and neglect which have
occurred. But from the allegations and admissions appearing
on the face of the bill itself, and in the exhibits, they will not.
avail the complainant. The bill adrmts the fact that Dr. Kennedy's place of residence in Georgia was known, that he was
brought back to South Carolina to be tried, nodoubt at the
instance of the family of Maxwell, and that he was there with
an execution against him for this debt in the hands of the
sheriff of the district where he was tried and acquitted. He
was thus completely within the power of complainant's predecessor for the enforcement of the execution.
It was two or three years before he was brought back from
Georgia, and when he returned there, he remained for four or
five years more. Here are seven or eight years, during all
which time, his residence was known, and also during which

JANUARY

T RM, 1,850.

M-.ax-l: .,nedyet

215

al.

he was subject to an action o debt on the judgment in the
courts of Georgia,.whi.Qh it wathe duty of pomplainant's predecessor to havebrought ifhe Fished to keep the debt alive.
The poverty of a debtoripresenis no.Jegal excuse. for the failure of a creditor to take~the .e,ans necessary- for the preserva.
tion of his rights,
There vs no distinct or specific allegation as to the tune
when Dr. Kennedy left Georgia, and none that any pams.what-.
ever were taken to discover or ascertain his residence. However, it is aditted that, he was discovered to be living, in
Mobile im 182-, . and that hqJhad no property or.means is contradicted by the complaunant lmself, for he admits that he had,
as early as 1805, married a Spamsh lady, the owner of considerable real and personal estate, which, however. he had, settled upon her before marriage, -and that he, Kennedy himself,
had "Iacquired an imperfect title,to a considerable amount .of
real, estate." And by turning to. one of the. exhibits annexed
to and made a part of the bill,, t will be found that, on the
6th of May, 1814, he had- acquied, along with his brother,
a certain Spanish grant -made to one MoVoy, and in his own
name two other Spanish grants,_made to one Price and one
Baudam. By the chancellor's decree in the suit by his hieirs
against the heirs of his brother Joshuaf among the exhibits, the
same thing is established. The 'decree also declares, that he
had the reputation of being a physician of some eminence,
that he was fond of ease, -careless of wealth, and generous-;
and that, after the, death of his:,w~fe, he went to live with his
brother, depending upon him, for avery. thing, although he had
means enough of his own. Hav ng discovered his residence,
it would have been but reasonaJl),diligence to have taken the
means to Wertain his ability to pay, and to have enforced the
judgment against him.
How-long Dr. Kennedy lived -under the dominion of- Spain
will best be shown by 4 reference to the historical facts connected with that part of -the country where he lived. From
the treaty for the- cession--of- Louisiana, the United States
claimed the Perdido as the eastern, boundary of that cession.
In 1810, Mr. Madison, by his proqlamation, declared it a. part
of the United States. And by an act of Congress of 14th
May, 1812, all that portion of country lying eas of-Pearl River,
west of the Perdido, and, south of the thirty-first;degree- of latitude, was annexed to the Territory of Mississippi, embracing
the city of Mobile. And on the 12th of February- 1813, Congress passed an act authdrizing the President to take possession
of the same. In the same year, the -Spanish officers -finally

706

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

retired. At this date, therefore, Dr. Kennedy ceased to be
under the dominion of Spain, and became subject to the laws
of the Territory of Mississippi, and liable to be sued in her
courts. In .1817 the Territory of Alabama was created, and
in. 1819 it was admitted as a State into the Union. As to the
deed made by Dr. Kennedy to his brother Joshua, in 1824,
the exhibits show the -object for which it was made. There
is no charge of fraud against Dr., Kennedy in the bill, for acting
as he did. The decree of the chancellor shows the reasons
and motives in wich the deed originated, and that it was
secret is contradicted by the same decree, which says, that,
"1very soon after the deed was executed, Joshua Kennedy declared to many of those very friends whom he had consulted
before, and to others at various times, that he had succeeded in
his purpose, that the Doctor had made over his property to
him, and that now his, the Doctor's, children would have
plenty, that they would soon be rich." The decree also
shows, that, In the spring of 1829, Joshua caused an advertisement to be inserted in a public newspaper in Mobile, offering
for sale and lease, some of the lands, in which, speaking of the
land to be leased, he states, - " At the expiration of which penod, the property shall revert to the legal heirs and representatives of William E. Kennedy deceased, and to the undersigned
in equal proportions."
One portion of the lands conveyed by that deed- the
Mc~oy claim - was, as appears by the deed itself, acquired by
Dr. Kennedy in 1814, when, beyond all question, the country
was part of the United States, and when there could-have been
no impediment to the acquisition of the property by Joshua
in his own name. But what is still more remarkable, the conveyance was made to the two brothers jointly As to the other
claim, the chancellor says. - "Whether Joshua Kennedy origanally had any interest on the Price claim or not, does not seem
to be clear from the evidence, but about the year 1818 or
1819 there seems to have been a deed of partition, which is
now lost, by which an equal interest on that claim was recogized between the brothers."
The bill is full of contradictions. In one place it admits
that Dr. -Kennedy's residence in Mobile was discovered in 1822,
-whilst it says in another that it was not until after the deed
of 1824. It says in one place that Joshua, who became the administrator of his brother, never settled the estate, and in consequence the personal assets remained m his hands at the time
qf his death, whilst in another, exactly the contrary is stated.
It will be observed there is no allegation in the bill, that

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

217

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

either the complainant or his predecessor ever presented this
claim to Joshua as administrator, or took any measures to enforce payment out of the personal estate, which, by the laws
of Alabama, required to be exhausted before resort can be had
to the realty And there is no charge of fraud whatever, either
against Dr. Kennedy or his heirs, but that its whole scope and
tendency is to offer excuses for the delay and neglect of the
complainant and his predecessor. No exemplification of the
judgment was produced.
The defendants have demurred to the bill, and under the
state of facts apparent on its face and in the exhibits, it is contended that the claim is barred by lapse of tune. In South
Carolina, the payment -of a judgment is presumed after the
lapse of twenty years. This is the common law presumption,
and is the rule in most of the States of the confederacy. In
the State of Alabama, the statute of limitations bars domestic
judgments in twenty years. Nothing is said as to judgments
of sister States. It cannot be pretended they should be placed
on a better footing than domestic. The bill admits a knowledge of the residence of Dr. Kennedy for a period of seven or
eight years in Georgia, immediately after the judgment was
obtained, and also a knowledge of his residence, and that of
his administrator and heirs, in Alabama, from 1822, so that the
complainant has slept upon his rights for a period of more than
thirty years, even if the time during which it is alleged the
residence of Dr. Kennedy was unknown is deducted. The
fact, that a creditor is ignorant of the domicile of his debtor, is
not regarded in the courts of the country where the debtor resides, they make no presumptions in favor of strangers. The
highest effort of legal comity is to place the stranger in the
same situation as the citizen. Statutes of limitation and presumptions arising from lapse of time belong to the lex forn.
The citizen of another State is not to be placed on a better
footing than citizens of the State 'where suit is brought.
McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 327
The well-recognized doctrine of courts of equity, as to the
effect of lapse of time in barring judgments and other claims,
as well in analogy to statutes of limitation as where no such
statutes exist, will be found laid down in 2 Story's Equity,
§ 1520, and by this court in McKmght v. Taylor, 1 Howard, 167, and in Bowman v. Wathen, Ibid. 189. See, also,
Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac. & Walk. 141, 151, Foster
v. Hodgson, 19 Ves. 184, 186, Smith v. Clay, Amb. 645,
Carr v. Chapman, 5 Leigh, 164, Hayes v. Goode, 7 Leigh, 452.
The objection of lapse of tune, apparent on the face of the
19
vOL. v111.

218

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

bill, may be taken on demurrer. Story's Eq. P., §§ 484, 503,
751, and cases there cited.. Where there is no relief, there is
no discovery Mc~lanahan v. Davis, decided at the present
term.
Mr Bibb, for the appellant, in reply, laid -down the followmg propositions I. The frame of the -bill, and the equity thereof, apart from
the length of time or the statute of limitations.
II. That the statute of limitations of Alabama does no, apply to the case.
IIL That the length of time, when no statute of limitations
can be applied as a positive bar, and when 6ompared with the
facts stated 1 the bill and confessed by the demurrer, is no bar
to the discovery and relief prayedUpon the first head, Mr Bibb proceeded to show that, upon
the averments- of the bill, confessed by the demurrer, the appellant was without remedy at common -law, but .although the
remedy was, gone, the right remained.
Upon the second point, he relied upon the argument of
Mr Dargan.
Upon, the third point, -le contended that length of *time,
without any statute of limitation, was no reason for a demurrer. Inthis case it admitted all the causes stated in the bill,
why the judgment was still unsatisfied. 3 Bro, Ch. Rep.
646, 3 Atkyns, 225, 2 Yes. sen. 109.
,Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opiinon of the court.
The facts stated in the 16ill are admitted by the demurrer,
ad' the only question is whether the complainant- is entitled
to relief in.a court of. equity, -when so many years have
elapsed, since the judgmne~lt was obtained, against the father
of the defendants. The judgment was.relidered- in -South Carolina on the 10th
of November, 1797, and this bill was- filed against the appellees -in Alabama on the 22d oftFebruary, 1844. A period of
more than forty-six years -had. therefore elapsed, during which
neither; the plaintiff who- obtained the judgmeiit, nor his adminfstrator,-nor the present complainant, who is.admlnistrator
-debonts non, made a. enand of the debt, or, took any step'to
procure its payment.
It is not alleged in exc se for this delay,, that his residence
was, during all the time,. unknown. On the contrary, it is admitted that at was .known for some six or eight years after the
judgment was obtained, and although-he was afterwards lost

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

219

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.
sight'of for a long time, and supposed to have gone beyond
sea and -died in ,parts unknown, yet he was agann discovered
in 1822 residing in. the State of Alabama, where for three years
afterwards he was accessible to the creditor, and. amenable- to
judicial process.
Neither is it alleged that he designedly and fraudulently concealed his place, of residence from the creditor, -nor that the
conveyance of his property was.made-for the purpose of hinderang or preventing the, recovery of 'this debt. The delay isaccounted for and sought to be excused altogether upon -the
ground, that, when- his place of residence. was known, he was
always in a state of poverty and insolvency, which made it
r,
useless to proceed -agamst'him.
It is, however, not necessary, in deciding the case, to inquire
whether ,even this state of poverty would justify, the delay of
so many years without some demand upon the party, or some
proceeding on the- jtidgment, to show' that, it was still regarded
as a subsisting. debt, and intended to be enforced whenever the
The facts stated in the ,bill, and those
debtor-was-able to'pay
'which appear'in the exhibits filed- with it by the complainant,
do'hot -show this -continued condition of' utter destitution and
'want which the .complainant relies- upon. For' when he was
-discovered in 1822,- in Alabama, iis situation as to property
.was such as to make 'it highly probable that the, debt might
-then have been recovered by' an action at law;-if it -was not
already barred by the act of limitations of that State.
This appears from the: decree -of the Chancery Court- of the
State, n a eontroverTy between the heirs' of William E. Kennedy, the debtor, and' the heirs of -his brother Joshua, which.decree is on'e of the complamant's exhibits. It shows that in .1818
-or 1819 the debtor held in his own right an:undivided moiety
,of the real estate, which he conveyed to his.brother, Joshua Ken-iedy, in 1824, as mentioned- in the-bill. And this conveyance
,upon the-face of'it purported to be in consideration of the sum
:bf ten thousand dollars, a sum sufficient to pay the.principal of
the ju'dgment, and- a large portion of the interest. It is true
that the. complainant, in that part of the bit'in which he speaks
of this -conveyance, states' that he- did'not discover that the
debtor waS-living and residing at-Mobile until after the conveyance Was -made. If this allegation was consistent with the other'statemeb-s tri the bill, .,ndcould-be regarded as a fact in the
case, admitted by the dena'rer; still; as hedied-in 1825, reasonable -diligence required that the creditor should have taken some
-measures fo ascertain -whether the ten 'thousand dollars had been
'paid, and'to compel his administrator, who was also the grantee

220

SUPREME

COURT.

Maxwell v. Kennedy et a.

in the deed, to account for it. The creditor had no right to
presume, without inquiry, that his debtor, who had sold property
for so large a sum of money, had within a year afterwards died
utterly insolvent and almost penniless, so as to make it useless
to investigate the state of his affairs, or to take any step towards
the recovery of his debt. There is reason for believing, from
the facts stated in the decree above mentioned, that, with proper
efforts, he would at that time have learned the trust upon which
the conveyance was made, and discovered that the debtor had
left property of sufficient value to be at all events worth pursuing.
But the complainant cannot put his claim upon the grouild
that -the residence of the debtor was not known until after he
had made the conveyance and parted from this property. For
in a previous part of his bill he admits that this information was
obtained in 1822, which was two years before the deed was executed. And whatever might have been the wasteful and dissolute habits of the debtor, he yet at that time owned the land
which at this late period the complainant is seeking to charge
with this debt, and continued to hold it until the conveyance
to his brother in 1824. And if the creditor chose to rest satisfied with information as to his labits and manner of living, instead of using proper exertions to find out his situation as to
property, his want of knowledge in this respect was the fruit
of his own laches. The fact that he held the title to these
lands could undoubtedly have been ascertained with ordinary
exertions on his part- And he moreover might have learned,
according to the statement in his exhibit before referred to, that
after the death of Win. E. Kennedy, his brother, the grantee in
the deed frequently spoke of this conveyance as intended -merely to prevent the property from being wasted by the careless
habits of his brother, and to preserve it for his family. And as
late as 1829, in an advertisement in a newspaper of the place,
offering some of this land for sale or lease; he described it as
property of which the children of Win. E. Kennedy were entitled to one half. With all these means of information open to
him from 1822 to 1829, the creditor-cannot be permitted to excuse his delay in instituting proceedings upon the ground that
he supposed the debtor to have lived and died hopelessly insolvent, until he obtained information to the contrary about the
time this bill was filed. If he remained ignorant, it was because he neglected to inquire. If he has lost his remedy at
law by lapse of time, or the death of the debtor, it has been
lost by his own laches, or that of the administrator who preceded him.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

221

Maxwell v. Kennedy et aL

It is the established rule in a court of equity, that the cred.itor who claiins its aid must show that he has used reasonable
diligence to recover his debt, and that the difficulties in his
way at law have not been occasioned by his own neglect. A
delay of twenty years is considered an absolute bar in a court
of equity, unless it is satisfactorily accounted for. But here
there has been a delay of more than forty-six years, and under
circumstances, for a part of that time, which evidently show a
want of diligence.
Indeed, if the court -granted the relief asked for, the complamant would not only be protected from the consequences of
his own neglect, but would derive a positive advantage from it.
For if, when the debtor was discovered in Alabama in 1822,
the complainant had then brought an action at law against huni
and recovered judgment, and then suffered that judgment to
sleep until the time when this bill was filed, his claim would
have been barred by the statute of limitations of that State.
And if he could now avoid that bar, upon the ground that the
act of limitations of Alabama applies only to domestic judgments, and could obtain the aid of a court of equity to enforce
the judgment rendered in South Carolina, upon the ground that
it is not within that. act, he 'ould derive an advantage from
his omission to proceed against the debtor when he discovered,
in 1822, the place of. his residence. He would obtain relief,
because he neglected to sue at law when the debtor appears to
have been in a.condition to pay the debt, and when that fact
could have been ascertained by reasonable exertions on his part.
In the eye of a court of equity, laches upon a judgment of South
Carolina cannot be entitled to more favor thai laches upon a
judgment in Alabama, and both must be visited with the same
consequences. Relief m a court of equity, under the circumstances stated in the bill and exhibits, would be an encouragement to revive stale demands, which had been abandoned for
years. The property now sought to be charged might not, in
the lifetime of the original parties, have been thought worth
pursuing, and in the changes in value continually occurring in
this country, it may, after the lapse of so many years, have become of great value in the hands of the heirs of the debtor.
And if under such circumstances it could be made liable, an
old and abandoned claim, with the accumulated interest of near
half a century, might become a tempting speculation. Sound
policy, as well as the principles of justice, requires that such
claims should not be encouraged in a court of equity
It is unnecessary, in this view of the case, to determine
whether the statute of limitations of Alabama does or does not
19 *

222

.P.C
S

COUR'T.'"
e.-l-

Maxwoell-v. Reaiiy

thuik.
ab'6ire gtLted,-we
Fo the reaso
judgment,
tQthis
apply
Il and exhibits,
state1i f
upon theacts
oftime,,
thelapse
lout'
is, upi, prMnciples ofequity, a'bar to th:eeief' praye
"'
d6f[imiation
'astatute
referentce to the direct bar of
iij
-hithat
'ase,
-this
in
"'ade
ben
has
questi6n
Another
on
apparent
'time,
of
e
whether the objection arising' frpm lap
demurret:
on
of
adv~ntag6
tien
be
,an
exhibits,
the.bill.and
Undoubtedly the rule formerly was thaf ifouid not;" 'd that'
by Lord Thurlow, iii the, cse
doctrine was distinctlylaiddoWfn
of Delorane v. 'Browne, 3 Bro. Ch.R. 6-46. "'The rule was
placed upon
haps followed for somp time afterwards. 'It wasthe
presump~ grud-l~ foufddion.
~ ti~ dfi~was
~
the:
tion that the debt must have blen paid, ad as -a-d'mu'rrer adis.the fact stated in the bi]1,4t admits that the debt,is, still
and if, admitted'to be ue, the de liok ,ini eqnityfand good
e,,;..
•conciernce is bound to pay it.

,

But the prpsumption of paynient'is noi hlie only ground upon
dt6 a stale demand.
which a, court of. chancery refuses its, ai'
diligenc , as well'
reaisoiable
For.there.must appear-to have.been
and if either is
action,
into
rs
Po7w
its,
toocall
faith,
asgood
" Th 'is the
lt"aid.
wanting,..it will iiiiaih passrve and refus
9 Pet.
Vattiei,
v.
Piatt"
in
cobrt
-t6
prnle_-recognize'd
416, Mc night 'v. Taylor, 1 How 168, and m Bowman et al.
v. Wathep et al. l1how 189. if, therefore;the complhufant-bV
his own 'showing has been guilty oft lache' lise not entitled to
the aid of the'court, although the debt niy b3e still unpaid.
~ ~
seem
.~ .pr9per
...
~ ""
j of-pleading'woiild
"""
'.
"..
- be5
rule
O'
the
Upon this Pprinciple,
to be that whnuthe case stated, by the 6bill appears to be
mnwhich a, court of equity will, refuse its aid,. the def6ndant
siould°be permitted to resist it bV demurrer. "''And as the ladies.
eq:ur
of the coxiplamant'in tlhe asserdiin df his claim is a be in
Ib
can
theie
itself,
bill
the
on
appareflt
is
ty, if that ,objection
no good reason for requiring a plea or answer to bring it to' the
notice of the court,, Accordingly, the rulb stated by Lord Thuilow has not been always follQwec.in later cases. In~ltvenden
v. Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lefr. 63, Lord Redes'dale says, - "If thie
-case of the plaintiff, as stated m the bill will not entitle him to
a decree, t e judgment of the court may 'be 'required on demurrer whether the defendant ought to be compelled to answer the
bill:.' And in Story's Eq,.PI., .503,.arid' the'-note"to ithe
states. the rule as laid down by Loid Redesdale 'to be now thd
established.one. In the opinion of'the court,it is tho-true rule.
It is.evidently founded up.on sounder prncrples of reason thali
the one maintaine'alby Lord 'Thurfow; and isbetter calculated
to disembarrass a suit from unnecessary forms and'fechnicali-

JANUA-Y

TERM, 1850.

223

: farsh et al. v. Brooks et al.

ties, and to save the parti s- froi useless expense and-trouble
in bnnging it to issue, and applies with equal force to"a case
barred by the lapse of tlnie,,add the negligence of the complainant, as to one barred by a positiVe act 6' litnitations. In
the case before us, therefore, the demurrer was proper, and must
be sustained, and'the decree of the court below affirmed.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court' of"the United States for the 'Soutliern District of Alabama, and -vas argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is no'~rhere ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

SAMUEL

MARSH, 'WLLIA

E.

LEE,

AND EDWARD

C.

DELAVAN,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. EDWiRD' BROOKS AND VIRGINIA C., HIS
WIFE, FORERLY VIRGIIrA C"RDDICk*I CHARLES P BILLOU AND
FRA-NCES 'E., HIS VIFE, FORMERLY FRANcES'E. REDDICR, WAL-

TER
-

J.

REDDICE AND DABNEY 0. REDDICK BY ELIZA. M. REDDICK,

THEIR GuARDIAN, HEIRS --AT 14AW' OF THODIAS
CEASED, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR;

F

REDDIC,

D".E-

The plaintiff in a writ of right prodnceda patent from the United States, dated in
1839, which contained sundry recitals, referrng to titles of anterior date derived
from acts of Congress for the adjustment of claims to lands. But the patent itself was issued under an act of Congress in 1836.
The defendant, in order to show an outstanding title,,gave in evidence a treaty between the.United States and the Sac and Fox Irldians, in which this.
with other
lands, was reserved for the half-breeds, and an act of Congress passed in 1834 relinquishing the reversionary interest of the United States to these half-breeds.
This was sufficintto show an outstanding title.
The recitals in a patent are not enough to show that the title is of an earlier date
than the patent itself, although they are evidence for some purposes. Nor was it
necessary for the defendant to show that any of the half-breeds were in existence
at the time of the trial.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of Iowa. It was a proceeding in the nature of an ejectmerit, to recover 640 acres on the right bank of the Mississippi
River. The suit was brought by the heirs of Reddick against
one Kilbourn, who was the tenant in possession. By agreement of counsel filed-after the suit was brought, it was admitted
that the defendants in error were the heirs of Thomas F ReTdick, and the plaintiffs-in error were substituted in the placesf
k "
Kilbourn.

