JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

251

Lord v. Veazie.

court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, witli costs, for the purposes of correcting what is defective in the manner of stating
how the verdict was taken, and how the last question stood by
itself on the facts proved, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

IR1,
NATHANIEL LoRD, PLAINTIFF IN
DEFENDANT.

V.

JOHN A.

VEAZIE,

Where it appears to this court, from affidavits and other evidence filed by persons
not parties to a suit, that there is no real dispute between the plaintiff and defendint in the suit, but, on the contrary, that their interest is one and the same,
and is adverse to the interests of the parties who filed the affidavits, the judg.
ment of the Circuit Court entered pro forma is a nullity and void, and no writ of
error will lie upon it. It must, therefore, be dismissed.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maine.
A motion was made by Mr. Moor, upon his own account
and also as counsel for the City Bank, at Boston, to dismiss
the appeal, upon the ground that it was a fictitious case, got
up between said parties for the purpose of settling legal questions upon which he, the said Moor and the City Bank, had
a large amount of property depending. The motion made by
Mr. Moor upon his individual account was to dismiss the appeal; that made by him as counsel for the City Bank was in
the alternative, either to dismiss the suit, or order the same
back to the Circuit Court for trial, and allow the said City
Bank to be heard in the trial of the same.
It appeared upon the documents and affidavits filed, that, in
1842, the Bangor and Piscataquis Canal and Railroad Company,
in the State of Maine, which had been chartered by the, State,
executed a deed to the City Bank, at Boston, by virtue of
which that bank claimed to hold the entire property of the
company.
In 1846, the Legislature of Maine granted to William Moor
and Daniel Moor, Jun., their associates and assigns, the sole
right of navigating the Penobscot River.
In July, 1847, an act was passed additional to the charter of
the first-named company, by virtue of which a reorganization
took place. The City Bank claimed to be the sole proprietors

252

SUPREME COURT.
Lord v. Veazie.

-

or beneficiaries under this new charter, -and John W. Veazie,
who held a large number of shares in the original company,
-claimed that the management and control were granted to the
stockholders.
In August, 1848, John, W. Veazie and -Nathaniel Lord executed a written instrument, which purported to be a conveyance by Veazie to Lord of 250 shares of the stock of the
railroad company, for the consideration of $ 6,000. This deed
contained the following covenant:"And I do hereby covenant and agree to and with the said
Lord, that -I will warrant and defend the said shaies, and all
property and privileges of said corporation incident thereto, to
the said Lord,' his executors, administrators, and assigns, and
that the saia shares, property, and privileges are free and clear
of all encumbrances; and I further covenant with said Lord,
.'that the stockholders of said company have the right to use
*the waters of the Penobscot River within the limits mentioned
- in their charterfor the purposes of navigation and transportation Uy steam or otherwiie."
In September, 1848, this action- on the above covenant was
docketed by consent, and a statement of facts agreed upon by
the respective counsel, under which the opinion of the court
-was to be -taken, viz. that if the claim of the City Bank was
valid, then the plaintiff was entitled to recover; or if the
canal and railroad company, or the stockholders thereof, had
not ; right to navigate the river, then the plaintiff was also entitled to recover. This last prayer involved Moor's right.
In Octo-ber, 1848, the court, held by Mr. Justice Ware, gave.
judgment for the defendant pro forma, at the request of the
,parties,' in order that the judgment 'and question might be
brought before this court, and the case "was brought up by writ
of error; as before mentioned.
On 'the 31st of January, 1849, the record was filed in this
ourt, ind on the'2d of February, printed arguments of coun* sel were filed, and the'case submitted to the court on the 5th.
It was -not taken up by the court, -but continued to the next
term.
On the 28th of December," 1849, Mr. Wrman B. S. Moor
*filed, with the motion to dismiss, as above mentioned, an
affidavit, stating the pendency of a suit by him against Veazie
in the courts .of Maine, which involved- the same right of
navigating the river "which was-one of the points of the present-case.- He further stated his belief, that this case was a
feigned issue, got up collusively between the .said Lord and
Yeaz'iei for the purpose of prejudicing his (Moor's) rights, and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

253

NLord v. Veazie.

obtaining the judgment of this court upon principles of law
affecting a large amount of property, in which he and others
were interested.
When the motion came on for argument, a 4umber of affidavits were filed in support of and against the motion. It is
unnecessary to 6tate their iontents, as they were not particularly commented on by the court. They proved that none of
the persons whose interest was adverse to that of the plaintiff
and defendant had any knowledge of these proceedings, until
after the case was removed to this court, and submitted for decision on printed arguments, although- one or more of those
most. deeply interested resided in the town in which Lord,
one of the parties, lived.
The motion was argued by Mr. Moor, in support of, and 1V1r.
Bradbury and MIr. Hamlin against it.
In support of the motion to dismiss, these points were taken
by Mr. Moor: 1. That a fictitious suit, or a feigned issue, or a suit instituted by persons to try the rights of third persons, not parties to
the record, is a contempt of court, and will be dismissed on
motion. H6skins v. Lord Berkeley, 4 Term R. 402; 3 B1. Com.
452; R. J. Elsam, an attorney, 3 Barn. & Cress. 597; 2 Inst.
215; Brewster v. Kitchin, Comb. 425; Coxe v. Philiips, Cas.
Temp. Hardwick, 237; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 1k47, 148..
2. That any person as amicus curice may make the-motion.
-Rex v. Veaux, Comb. 13 ; Dove v. Martin, Comb. 170 ; Brown
v. Walker, 2 Showers, 406; Cox v. Phillips, before cited.
3. A suit may be shown to be fictitious, either by inspection
of-the record or by evidence aliunde, or by both. The case of
R. J. Elsam, before cited; Hoskins v. Lord Berkeley, before
cited; Fletcher v. Peck, before cited ; Coxe v. Phillips,; before
cited.
4. That this is a fictitious suit, or a suit amicably instituted
and conducted, to affect the rights of other parties, will appear
from the record.
5. That it is an amicable or fictitious suit appears from the
facts, that the suit in equity in the Supreme Judicial Court of
Maine, Moor v. Veazie, involves the same questidn as to the
construction and constitutionality of the act set forth in printed case, and marked G, as are involved in the case at bar, and
that the plaintiff in error is the son-in-law, and the defendant
in error is the son, of said Samuel Veazie.
That said suit was in contemplation before the institution of
this suit.
22
VOL. VIII.

254

SUPREME COURT.
...
Lotd v. Veazie.

That the defendant in error has heretofore set up the same
claim to the property of said railroad company against the City
Bank as is involved in this suit.
That the existence of this suit was kept from the knowledge
of the parties really interested, till the writ of error was entered here.
This court sits for the correction of errors of inferior courts,
and not to adjudicate upon the agreement of parties.
There has been no-such judgment in -this suit that this court
will revise by writ of error. Judiciary Act of 1789, ยง 22 (1 Stat.
at Large, 84); Act of April 29, 1802, ch. 31, ยง 6 (2 Stat. at
Large, 159); Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat. 137, 14-7; McDonald
v. Smalley et al., 1 Pet. 621; Shankland v. The Corporation of
Washington, 5 Peters, 390; Stimpson v. Westchester Railroad
Co., 3 Howard, 553; Dewolf v. Usher, 3 Peters, 269; Zeller's
Lessee v. Eckert, 4 Howard, 298.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered'the opinion of the court.
The court is satisfied, upon examining the record in this case,
and -the affidavits filed in the motion to dismiss, that the contract set out in the pleadings was made for the purpose 'of instituting this suit, and that there is no real dispute between the
plaintiff and defendant. On the contrary, it is evident that
their interest in the question brought here for decision is one
and the same, and not adverse; and that in these proceedings the plaintiff and defendant are attempting to procure
the opinion of this court upon a question of law, in the decision:of which they have a common interest opposed to that of
other persons, who are not parties to this suit, who had n'o
knowledge of it while it was pending in the Circuit Court,
and. no opportunity of being heard there in defence of their
rights. And their conduct is the more objectionable, because
they have brought up the question upon a statement df facts
agreed on, between themselves, without the knowledge of the
parties with whom they were in truth in dispute, and upon a
judgment pro forna,entered by their mutual consent, without
any actual judicial decision by the court. It is a question, too,
in which it appears that property to a very large amount is involved, the right to which depends on its decision.
It is proper to say that the counsel who argued here the motion to dismiss, in behalf of the parties to the suit, stand entirely
acquitted of any participation in the purposes for which these
proceedings were instituted; and indeed could have had none,
as they were not counsel in the Circuit Court, and had no con-'
cern with the case until after it came before this court. And

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

255

Lord v. Veazie.

we are bound to presume that the counsel who conducted the
case in the court below were equally uninformed of the design
and object of these parties; and that they would not knowingly have represented to the court that a feigned controversy
was a real one.
It is the office of courts of justice to decide the rights of
persons and of property, when the persons interested cannot adjust them by agreement between themselves, -and to do this
upon the full hearing of both parties. And any attempt, by a
mere colorable dispute, to obtain the opinion of the court upon
a question of law which a party desires to know for his own
interest or his own purposes, when there is no real and substantial controversy between those who appear as adverse parties to
the suit, is an abuse which courts of justice have always reprehended, and treated as a punishable contempt of court.
The suit is spoken of, in the affidavits filed in support of it,
as an amicable action, and the proceeding defended on that
ground. But an amicable action, in the sense in which these
words are used in courts of justice, presupposes that there is a
real dispute between the parties concerning some matter of
right. And in a case of that kind it sometimes happens, that,
for the purpose of obtaining a decision of the controversy,
without incurring needless expense and trouble, they agree to
conduct the suit in an amicable manner, that is to say, that
they will not embarrass each other with unnecessary forms or
technicalities, and will mutually admit facts which they know
to be true, and without requiring proof, and will bring the
point in dispute before the court for decision, without subjecting
each other to unnecessary expense or delay. But there must
be an actual controversy, and adverse -interests. The amity
consists in the manner in which it is brought to issue before
the court. And such amicable actions, so far from being objects of censure, are always approved and encouraged, because
they facilitate greatly the administration of justice between the
parties. The objection in the case before us is, not that the
proceedings were amicable, but that there is no real cohflict of
interest between them; that the plaintiff and defendant have
the same interest, and that interest adverse and in conflict with
the interest of third persons, whose rights would be seriously
affected if the question of law was decided in the manner that
both of the pirties to this suit desire it to be.
A judgment entered under such circumstances, and for such
purposes, is a mere form. The whole proceeding was in contempt of the court, and highly reprehensible, and the learned
district judge, who was then holding the Circiiit Court, un-

SUPREME COURT.

256

Peale, v. Phipps et al.

doubtedly suffered the judgment pro forma to be entered under
the impression that there was in fact a controversy between the
plaintiff and defendant, and that they were proceeding to obtain a decision upon a disputed question of law, in which they
had advprse interests. A judgment in form, thus procured, in.
the eye of the law is no judgment of the court. It is a nullity,
and no writ of error will lie upon it. This writ is, therefore,
dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record'from the Circuit Court of. the United Stateg for the Dis"trict of Maine, and was argued by counsel, and it'appearing to,
the court here, from the affidavit and other evidence filed in
the case by Mr. Moor, in behalf of third persons notparties to'
this suit, that there is no real dispute between the plaintiff and
defendant in this suit, but, on the contrary, that their interest
is one and tihe same, and is adverse to the interests of the persons
aforesaid, it is the opinion' of this court, that the judgment of
the Circuit Court entered pro forma in this case is a nullity and
void, and that no writ of error' will lie upon it. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the writ of error be, and the same is hereby, dismissed,'
each party paying his own costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said court, to be dealt with
as law and justice may require.

ELIJAH PEALE, TRUSTEE AND ASSIGNEE OF THE PRESIDENT, DIREC-'
TORS, AND

COIPANY

PLAINTIFF IN

OF THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF MISSISSIPPI,
MARTHA PHIPPS AND MARY RICE, WHO is-

ERROR, V.

AUTHOFIZED AND ASSISTED IN THE SUIT BY HER HUSBAND, CHARLES

RICE.
An error in a citation, calling Mary Rice the wife of Charles Bowers, whereas she
was the wife of Charles Rice, is not fatal in a case coming from Louisiana. The
practice there is for the husband to assent when the wife brings a suit, so that his

name is merely a matter of form.
Nor is it a fatal error when the citation was issued at the instance of E. Peale as

plaintiff in error, instead of Elijah Peale, Trustee of the Agricultural Bank of
Mississippi.
The acceptance of the service of the citation by the attorney for the parties shows
that the error led to no misapprehension.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from Louisiana,
and a motion was made by Mr. Henderson to dismiss it, upon
the grounds stated in the opinion of the court.

