JANUARY TERM, 1850.

183

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

against these defendants, or either of them, - no foundation laid
creating a liability, legal or equitable, to deliver the slaves to
the complainant, or to account for their value or services; they
seem to have been made .parties, one and all, as witnesses to
establish a supposed right of the intestate to the property, under
the idea that, from their connection with the families of the former owners of the life interest, they might be able to give some
information on the subject. (Story's Eq. Pl., % 234, 244,
245, 510, 519; Cooper's P1. 41, 42; 2 Johns. Oh. 413.)
There are other objections taken: to the relief sought in this
form, which are worthy of consideration; but as the ground
above stated disposes of the case, it is not important that we
should examine them.
The complainant having, in our judgment, failed to set forth
any foundation for relief, the right to the discovery, which is
claimed as incidental, of course fails with it. (Story's Eq. Pl.,
§ 312 and note; 17 Maine, 404; 3 Edw. 107,; 3 Beav. 284.)
The decree below must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed br this court, that
the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

CHARLOTTE TAYLOR, BY JAIES M. WALKER, HER NEXT FRIEND, APPELLANT, V. JAMES TAYLOR, JULIA SCARBOROUGH, GODFREY BARNSLEY AND JULIA, HIS WIFE, JOSE'PH SCARBOROUGH AND WILLIAM
SCARBOROUGH, ROBERT M. GOODWIN, NORMAN WALLACE, AND
ANDREW T. MILLER.
A deed from a female child, just'of age, and living with her parents, made to -a trustee for the benefit of one of those parents, founded on no real consideration, executed under the inflgence of misrepresentation by the parents, and containing in
its preamble a recital of false statements, ordered to be set aside, and the property.
reconveyed to the grantor.
The principles upon which a court of equity interferes to protect persons from undue
and improper influences examined and stated.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the .United
States for the District of Georgia, sitting as a court of equity.

184

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

The bill was filed in the Circuit Court by Charlotte Taylor,
formerly Charlotte Scarborough, a resident of the State of New
Jersey, to set aside a deed which she alleged had been obtained
from her in an illegal and fraudulent manner. The defendants
were James Taylor, her husband, some of the members of her
family, Robert M. Goodwin, who had become the trustee under
the deed after the death of William Taylor, the original trustee, and Wallace and Miller, who were the executors of William
Taylor, the original trustee.
Prior to the year 1819, William Scarborough, a merchant residing in Savannah, became embarrassed in his affairs, and on
the 5th of June in that year executed a mortgage for the purpose of securing his indorsers upon certain notes; the indorsers
being Andrew Low and Company, and William Taylor. The
firm of Andrew Low and Cpmpany was composed of Andrew
Low, Robert Isaac (who had married William Scarborough's
sister), and James McHenry.
The property mortgaged. consisted of certain stocks and real
estate, amongst Which was the following lot: -"
All that lot
of land, and the buildings and improvements thereon situated,
lying, and being in the city of Savannah aforesaid, bounded on
the east by West Broad Street, on the south by a street or lane
.thirty feet wide, and on the west and south by the lots contiguous to the same, containing ninety feet in front, and being the
lot and buildings opposite Mr. Daniel Hotchkiss, and recently
erected by the said William Scarborough."
On the next day, namely, the 6th of June, 1819, Scarborough confessed a judgment in favor of Andrew Low for
$ 87,534.50.
On the 13th of May, 1820, Scarboroiigh executed a deed in
fee simple -of the above-described, property to Robert Isaac.
On the 16th of November, 1820, Scarborough was discharged as an insolvent debtor by the Chatham County Inferior
Court.
On the 2d of January, 1825, a sale of Scarborough's furniture took place by the marshal, uhder an execution which
had been issued by virtue of a judgment obtained against him
by Andrew Low. The property was all purchased by Isaac,
according to the following schedule. It is inserted here for the
purpose of being compared with the inventory which was
taken of Isaac's property after his death, and which will be
stated in its proper place.

185

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Taylor v. Taylor et-al.
ANDREW Low v. WILLIAM SCARBOROUGH. -

Marshal's Sales.

.Tuesday, 2d Januarly, 1825.
Purchaser.
$ 500.00
R. Isaac, Esq. To furniture in room No. 1 (dining),
200.00
passage, No. 2,
(I
To
500.00
dining-room, No. 3,
"
To
350.00
larger do. No. 4, .
"
To
up-stairs passage, 5, clock
"
To
60.00
, and lamp,
110.00
bed-room, No. 1,
"
To
ge
cc
No. 2,
100.00
To
60.00
No. 3,
c
To
75.00
No. 4,
,
To
30.00
No. 5,
To
25.00
*
To kitchen furniture,
400.00
To silver ware,
'250.00
To carriage and gig,
.
200.00
.
To pair carriage horses, *
80.00
*
To saddle horse,
.

*"

$2,940.00
In February, 1826, an agreement was made amongst the
partners constituting the firm of A. Low and Company, by
which the house and lot, which had been mortgaged to the
firm, and afterwards conveyed to Isaac, was to be held as the
separate and individual property of Isaac, upon his paying to
the firm the sum of $ 20,000.
On the 26th of August, 1827, Isaac made his will, which
contained the following clause: "Seventh. Item, I give and bequeathe unto my beloved
niece, Charlotte Scarborough, all my right, title, and interest in
and to the lot, dwelling-house, and all other improvements
thereon, which formerly belonged to her father, William Scarborough, on West Broad Street, in the city of Savannah, known
,together also with the
in the plan of said city as lot No.
plate, furniture of all kindi, books and prints, all which were
purchased and paid for at marshal's sales by me."
On the 16th of October, 1827, Isaac died.
,Eight persons were named in the will as executors, but only
three acted, viz. William Scarborough, William Taylor, and
Norman Wallace, to whom letters testamentary were granted
on the 17th of January, 1828.
On the 9th of Janua~y, 1828, the will was proved, .and on
the next day, viz. the 10th, Charlotte Scarborough, the niece
16*

186

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et aL

and devisee of the deceased, addressed the following letter to
her father, William Scarborough.
From a sense of my unwor" MT EVER-HONORED FATHER, thiness, I am convinced that the love my dear uncle bore me,
and which dictated his bequest to me in his last will, would
not, could he now see my conduct, condemn me for pursuing
the feelings of a heart strongly and sincerely devoted in affection to the members of my family. Having arrived at an age
when I may' with impunity legally make a transfer of that
which has been so generously placed at my discretion, I un-"
hesitatingly follow this course of conduct, unbiased by any
control whatsoever; and in the liberty I am now using, I am
acting by my own free will, dictated by my feelings alone, and
unkhown to any person. Thus, then, I most emphatically
transfer all my right to the said property (the gift of my everlamented uncle) to my beloved mother, to be used and enjoyed
,as her unquestionable right, during her lifetime; and at her
death and yours, to be equally divided between my sisters,
brothers, and myself, my right operating in no manner in my
favor to the exclusion of the other members of our family.
"In thus making a transfer of the said property, I trust my_
much-loved parent will acknowledge one slight proof of my
gratitude for all his numerous kindnesses lavished on me. Most
thankful do I feel for being made the simple instrument of accomplishing the will of him who has so kindly and generously
'placed his confidence in me; and in acting thus, convince the
world that my devoted affection for him was pure, disinterested, and unbiased by any future expectation.
"I am, dear Sir,.your most affectionate and grateful daughter,'
CHARLOTTE D. SCARBOROUGH.
"_avannah, January 10th, 1828."
On the 22d of January, 1828, Charlotte executed the deed
which it was the object of the present suit to set aside. It re'cited a proposed marriage seitlement of 1805, and then proceeded'as follows: "Aind whereas, from neglect, the said deed was not recorded
in Chatham county and State of Georgia, and whereas, in the
year 1819, the said William Scarborough having failed in trade,.
and some doubts having been suggested as to the validity of
the said marriage settlement, from the omission to record the
same as aforesaid, the said William Scarborough did, in conse'quence of such doubt, transfer and convey al" his right, title,
and interest, if any remained to him, in and to the aforesaid
-named and described lots of land, to his principal creditor,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

187

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

Robert Isaac, of Savannah, his heirs and assigns, in part satisfaction of his debt; and 'whereas the said Robert Isaac hath
recently departed this life, leaving a last will and testament,
whereby he bequeathed and devised to the said Charlotte Scarborough, his niece, all his right, title, and interest in the said lots
of land; the dwelling-house and improvements thereon, together with the plate, furniture of all kinds, books and prints,
therein, which were purchased by the said Robert at marshal's
sales, in the city of Savannah, which said last will and testament has been duly proved before the Court of Ordinary of
Chatham County; and whereas the said Charlotte Scarborough,
to whom the aforesaid devise was made, being of lawful age,
and being desirous of conveying or carrying the said marriage
settlement into effect, according to the original intention of the
parties thereto, hath determined to convey all her right, title,
and interest in said property in trust for that purpose. Now,,
this indenture witnesseth, that the said Charlotte, in consideration of the premises, and from natural love and affection for her
said beloved mother, Julia Scarborough, and her sisters and
brothers, and also in consideration of the sum of one dollar, to
her in hand paid by the said William Taylor of the second
part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath granted,
bargained, and sold, released, conveyed, and confirmed, and by
these presents doth grant, bargain, and sell, release, convey, and
confirm, unto the said William Taylor, his heirs and assigns, all
her right, title, and interest in and to the said lots of land herein
before described and set forth, together with the buildings and
improvements thereon, with the appurtenances, and together
with the plate, furniture of all kinds, books and prints, herein
before referred to; which lots, buildings, improvements, furniture, plate, books and prints, were devised to her by the said
Robert Isaac, as herein before set forth. To have and to hold
the said lots of land, with the other premises and appurtenances, unto him, the said William Taylor, his heirs and assigns;
in trust, nevertheless, to and for the use of the said Julia Scarborough, wife of the said William Scarborough, for and during
the term of her natural life, not to be in any manner, or by any
means, subject to, or liable for, the debts of the said William
Scarborough, her said husband; and from and after the decease
of the said Julia Scarborough, then in further trust to and for
the use and benefit of the said Charlotte Scarborough, and such
of her brothers and sisters, children of the said Julia, as shall be
living at the time of the decease of the said Julia Scarborough,
equally to be divided between them, share and share alike."
The deed then contained a covenant for further assurances,

188

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

and was executed in presence of Andrew Low and John Guilmartin.
On the 25th" of January, 1828, Scarborough, as a qualified
executor of the estate of Isaac, exhibited an inventory to the
court, from which the following is an extract.
"In the house formerly the property of Win. Scarborough,
and bought by Robert Isaac at marshal's sales, as per his certified copy.
Furniture in room No. !,
c
passage, No. 2,
.
dining-room, No. 3, .
* large dining-room, No. 4,

$ 240.00

.

205.00
302.00
494.00

.

up-stairs passage, clock and lamp,
bedroom No. 1,
"

bedroom No. 2,
bedroom No. 3,
bedroom No. 4,.

40.00
187.00
90.00
12.00
68.00

.
.

bedroom No. 5, included in above.
kitchen,
Silver ware,

.

•

.
..

.

.

10.00

.426.00

1 gig, $ 10, carriage destroyed in hurricane,
1 set China. (table), $ 130, 1 lot glass ware, $100,
"PETIT DE VILLERS,

W. RosE,
J. B. HERBFRT,

)

10.00
230.00
Aypraisers."

InApril, 1829, Charlotte Scarborough married James Taylor, one of the defendants in the present suit. They removed
to New York to reside, in 1835, and afterwards to N-ew Jersey,
where the complainant resided at the institution of this suit.
Julia Scarborough, the. mother of the complainant, resided .in
the house in question, at. and after~the execution of the, deed,
as did William Scarborough, the father, with occasional absences, until 1835, when he rented it to Barnsley, who had married
one of his daughters, and who was also one of the defendants
in the present suit..
On the 12th of June, 1838, William Scarborough died.
In the early part of 1840, a petition was filed in the Superior Court of Chatham County, in: the names of the different
branches of the Scarborough family, stating the death of William Taylor, the trustee under the deed, and praying that Robert M. Goodwin might be appointed in his place; which was
accordingly done. To this petition the name of Charlotte
Taylor was signed as follows : " For Charlotte Taylor, Joseph Scarborough."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

189

Taylor v. Taylor et aL

On the 4th of September 1843, Charlotte Taylor filed her
bill against all the parties enumerated in the commencement of
this statement.
It recited the devises of the will, stated that she was the
niece by marriage of Robert Isaac, and an inmate and resident
of his family, with whom she continued to reside until his
death, when she removed to the residence of her father and
mother, being the house devised to her (the oratrix) by the
will. It then averred, that, upon her return to the family of her
parents, her reception was harsh and unkind; that .she was
charged with having dictated to the testator, Robert Isaac, the
disposition of the property, with ruining the prospects of the
family, and breaking the heart of her father. The bill then
proceeded thus: "And your oratrix further showeth unto your honors, that
day after day your oratrix's situation in her father's family became more and more unpleasant and harassing, in consequence
of their unkind and, as your oratrix charges, their cruel treatment of her; that your oratrix was at the time an infant under
the age of twenty-one years, having been born, as your oratrix
charges, on the 4th day of August, in the year of our Lord
1807: that your oratrix was closely watched by her father,
mother, and sisters, secluded from society and the advice of
friends, and even denied the liberty of communicating with the
defendant, James Taylor, whom your oratrix was then under
an engagement to marry; that your oratrix was importuned
and urged by her mother, with the advice and countenance of
her father to relinquish your oratrix's rights under the will
aforesaid, and to settle the property on your oratrix, her mother,
brothers, and sisters; and with the view of effecting this object, it was particularly urged that the said Robert Isaac, by the
said devise and bequest in the seventh item of his said last will
and testament, had so conveyed the said property, believing that
your oratrix would divide the same in the manner proposed by
your oratrix's parents as before stated, although your oratrix at
the time knew that the said Robert Isaac had, for a considerable time preceding his death, borne a decided antipathy to the
said Julia Scarborough.
"And your oratrix further showeth unto your honors, that,
when in answer to these and other repeated importunities most
unkindly pressed upon your oratrix, your oratrix would hesitate
or refuse to enter into and yield to the proposed arrangement,
your oratrix's reluctance and refusal would be ascribed to the
influence of the said James Taylor, who was described to be a
merciless, grasping man, who would sacrifice any thing for a
gain.

190

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

"9And your oratrix further showeth unto your honors, that
when again, in reply to the urgent importunity of the said Julia Scarborough, your oratrix inquired of her what your oratrix
should do, your oratrix, after a conference between the said Julia and William Scarbqrough, was informed that yourn oratrix
should address a letter to the said William Scarborough, to the
effect that, supposing the said Robert Isaac had intended the
property should be divided between your oratrix, her mother,
sisters, and brothers, your oratrix wished that he, the said William Scarborough, would consent that your oratrix' should so
have the property disposed of that the said Julia Scarborough
should have it during her life, and that after her death it should
be divided between your oratrix, her two sisters and two
brothers.
"And your oratrix further showeth unto your honors, and expressly charges, that at, this stage of the matter your oratrix
sought an interview with the said James Taylor, and, after relating to him the circumstances above detailed, asked his opinion
and advice as to the duty of your oratrix in the premises, and
that his reply was, in- substance, that individually he cared
nothit,g about the course your oratrix might pursue, as he was
well off, and that he would never meddle with a copper of the
value ofthe property, but advised your oratrix, as she valued
her own interest, not to yield to the arrangement proposed by
the parents of your oratrix.
"And your oratrix further showeth unto your honors, that at
the time referred to the affairs of the said William Scarborough
,were in a very deranged and embarrassed condition; that he was
utterly unable to pay his debts; and that, as a consequence,
his family having but very small resources independently
of him, their pecuniary situation was pitiable and distressing;
and that, urged by this consideration, by the unhappiness and
even misery which your oratrix was suffering from the treatnment of the family and their importunity, and influenced, too,
,by the hope that her marriage with the said James Taylor
might thereby receive the consent of her parents, your oratrix
finally yielded, and wrote the letter to her father, reciting, in
,substance, as your oratrix charges, that the said Julia and William Scarborough were to have the house, furniture, &c., during their lives, and that at their death the plate, with the crest
of the family, was to be given to your oratrix's brothers as
their share, and the house and lots divided between your oratrix and her sisters. Your oratrix charges the above to have
been the substance of the writing, but that she cannot now ascertain the particulars, as the original draft, which was kept by

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

191

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

your oratrix, was destroyed by fire in the city of New York in
the year 1835."
The bill then proceeded to state that a deed was drawn up,
which she signed, without reading or hearing it read; that, so
far from the marriage settlement upon her mother being an, inducement to the execution of the deed, as is alleged, she now
finds, in the recital, she had never at that time heard of any
such marriage settlement; but, on the contrary, the deed was
extorted from her by the most unfair and fraudulent means, and
was executed by her as, the price of peace with her father,
mother,, and family.
The bill then stated the marriage of the oratrix with James
Taylor, on the 28th of April, 1829; that she had, soon afterwards, used all the means in her power to convince her husband that the deed was fraudulent and invalid, but that he objected to family disputes about property, and averred, that his
own individual property and means of support were sufficient
for his family.I It then stated that she did, not discover the
amount of injustice which had been practised upon her until
the year 1839, when she discovered that, under the deed, in
case she died before her mother, her children would be cut off
from all share in the property. It then stated the death of
Taylor, the trustee, and the appointment of Goodwin in his
place, and averred that she was entirely ignorant of the use of
her name, which was signed to the petition without her authority.
The bill then str ,ed that Godfrey Barnsley had intermarried
with her sister, Julia Scarborough, and resided for a long time
in the house in question; that he had committed waste upon
the goods and chattels bequeathed to her (the oratrix), had sold
or otherwise disposed of a considerable portion of the stock of
liquors, and that waste had also been committed by Julia Scarborough, the mother; that Barnsley knew that the oratrix had
a claim to the personalty; that she had applied to Goodwin,
the trustee, to come to an account with her, which he had refused to do.
The bill then contained a number of interrogatories for the
defendants to answer; prayed that the deed might be decreed
fraudulent and void, and that the defendants might come to an
account with her, and that the real estate, goods, chattels, plate,
furniture, books, prints, rents, and profits, might be decreed to
be the separate property of the oratrix, not subject to the debts
or liable to the creditors of her husband, James Taylor, &c., &c.
Sundry intermediate steps were taken to bring the defendants all into court, which it is not necessary to mention. At

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

length' they all came in and answered, except Julia Scarborough, the mother, and Joseph Scarborough, against which two
parties an order was obtained, taking the bill pro confesso.
Robert M. Goodwin, the trustee, filed his answer on the 6th
of November, 1843, admitting the existence of the trust deed,
and that it was under his control; and stating that he consented to act at the request of Horace Sistare, who married the
complainant's sister, and of Joseph, her brother, and that he
supposed-he was acting with her consent, not only because her
brother signed her name to the petition for his appointment,
but because, in conversations with her, she never expressed the
least objection to the appointment. That William Taylor left
no accounts, never having interfered with the property, or received it into his -possession, or any of the rents, issues, or
profits, the same being left in the custody or possession of the
cestui que trusts entitled thereto. He denies that the trust
deed was made by compulsion or undue means, or that it was
made by her when under age; but, on the contrary, avers that
the same was made freely and voluntarily, and that she was
then of full age, as would more fully appear by a letter written
by her to her father, dated 10th January, 1828, a copy of which
he annexed to his answer.
The answer of the executors of William Taylor was filed
6th November, 1843, and states that they do not believe their
testator acted as trustee, though he may have assented to the
trusteeship; that they have never seen any account of his as
trustee, and do not believe he left any; for he regarded the matter as a mere family arrangement, and left every thing in the
hands of the cestui que trust, then entitled to the use of the
same. They deny the right of the complainant to call on them
for an account of the personal property conveyed in trust, because by the trust deed Julia Scarborough, who is still living,
has the use of it for life; nor can they give any account of said
property, or the rents and profits of the real estate, because the
said real and personal property never passed into the hands of
their testator in his lifetime, nor into their control or possession
since his death, but had always been in the possession and
management of Julia Scarborough, the cestui que trust, entitled
to the same under the deed.
The joint answer of Godfrey Barnsley and Julia, his wife,
was filed 19th February, 1844, and in substance states that the
complainant always called her mother's house her home, and
lived as much there as with her uncle; that she was not an infant at the time of the execution of the deed, having been born
on the 4th of August, 1806; that they do not know of any

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

193

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

consideration other than that stated in the deed; that Julia
Scarborough lived on the premises at the time of its execution,
and that William Scarborough sometimes resided in Darien,
and sometimes on the premises, until 1833, after which he generally resided on the latter; and that complainant never, as far
as they know, pretended to have any claim thereto; and as late
as April or May last (1843), when defendant, Julia Barnsley, in
consequence of rumors which had reached her, asked complainant, "if it was true, as she had been informed, that she (the
complainant) intended to attempt to set aside said deed," she
stated, "she had no such intention." They deny. as utterly
and entirely untrue, the statenfent of the complainant of unkind treatment by her family, and never heard or knew of any).
or of any importunity or coercion used towards her to induce her
to sign the deed; that they always believed the execution of
the deed was the free, voluntary act of the complainant, and intended to fulfil the design of Robert Isaac, whose title they insist is more than doubtful, in consequence of the marriage settlement of 1805; that they are advised.that the said deed was
and is valid, as between the parties to the same, and therefore
William Scarborough could not make any conveyance to Robert Isaac; and that-he always held the premises subject to the
marriage settlement, and that they have always heard it in the
family, and so believe, that the complainant execute the deed
freely and voluntarily, with a view to carry out the wishes and
intentions of her uncle, which would otherwise have been defeated. They further allege that no marriage settlement between the complainant and her husband was ever executed, and
he having been recently declared bankrupt, any interest which
she may have in the property, or any claim against them, belongs to the said James Taylor, or his assignee in bankruptcy.
The answer then explains the defendant Godfrey Barnsley's
actings and doings with respect .to the property.
The answer of James Taylor, the husband of the complainant. admitted all the material facts charged in the bill, and
stated that before the marriage he had advised her not to execute the deed, believing, from her representations, that she was
unkindly treated by the family; that he had been requested by
William Scarborough to be a witness to the execution of the
deed, but declined to be so, and that his belief of the unhappy
situation of the complainant operated upon him in a great
measure to consummate his engagement to marry her twelve
months prior to the period before intended.
Several witnesses were examined on the parts of the complainant and defendants. The following were the answers of
VOL. VIII.

17

194

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

the subscribing witnesses to the deed, viz. Andrew Low and
John Guilmartin, touching its execution.

Andrew LovV: "To the fourth direct interrogatory the witness answering
was intimate in the family of the late William Scarsaith, -I
borough, both before, in, and after 1828; I was a subscribing
witness to the signing of the deed, and after it was signed the
complainant expressed to me that she was then satisfied, and
was glad that she had done it, or words to that effect.
"To the fifth direct interrogatory the witness answering
saith,-I was present, as stated before, at the execution of the
deed; it is impossible, at this distance of time, to remember all
that then transpired, but this I am certain of, that the complainant knew the contents of the deed, and approved of it; in fact,
as I have before said, she herself told me so.
"1To the fourth cross-interrogatory the witness answering
became acquainted with the circumstances I have
saith, -I
stated, relative to the property, from my personal intimacy with.
William Scarborough and his family, and upon my connection
in business with the late Robert Isaac. I was a subscribing
witness to the deed at the instance of William Scarborough.
"To the fifth cross-interrogatory the witness answering
saith,- I do not know by whom the deed was drawn; the
other subscribing witness was Mr. Guilmartin; he was requested
to be so by William Scarborough. There was a change of one
of the witnesses of the deed, in consequence of James Taylor,
who had previously arranged to be a witness, declining to be
so after his arrival at William Scarborough's house, for that purpose. I do not remember that he gave any reason for declining. The parties present, when the deed was executed, were
the complainant's father and mother, and the witnesses. I did
not see or hear the complainant read the deed, but I was then,
and still am, satisfied that she knew the contents, and approved
of it.
" To the sixth cross-interrogatory the witness answering
.saith,- I do not recollect the question being put to the complainant, whether she knew the contents of the deed, nor do I
recollect whether any consideration money was offered; if there
was, it was a piece of coin, probably a dollar, in the usual way,
in such cases; I think I was in William Scarborough's house
about two hours previous to signing the deed, and left soon after.
"To the seventh cross-interrogatory the witness answering
saith, - James Taylor, now the husband of the complainant,
had been asked by Mr. Scarborough to attest the deed'as a witness, and he consented to go with me to the house for that pur-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

195

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

pose; after closing our place of business, I asked him to accompany me; he said he would soon follow me, which he
did; he did not express himself opposed to the execution of
the deed, that I. am aware of; I certainly never heard him.
It was not known or understood by me, that he was under an
engagement to marry the complainant ; the previous year there
was something of the kind spoken of, but he and the complainant had disagreed, and I was given to believe that it was all
broken off. At the dissolution of the partnership of Low,
Taylor, and Company, in 1834 or 1835, James Taylor was
largely indebted on private account to the said firm; and some
time in 1835 I granted him a discharge from the said'debt, in
consideration of his giving, up to me every description of property belonging to himself and his wife, except his household
furniture, which I allowed him to retain; he did not at this
time mention to me that he or his wife had any claim to the
property in question, or I should have claimed it in conformity
with our agreement. I had never heard of his making any
claim to the property conveyed by the said deed, or any part of
it, until advised of it by William Robertson, under date of the
16th February, 1844."
John Guilmartin: "To the first direct interrogatory the witness answers and
says, that his name and handwriting is to the instrument as a
witness, and that he subscribed as a witness, at the instance of
William Scarborough, the deed now presented to him, being the
original deed from complainant to Win. Taylor, in trust.
"To the second direct interrogatory the witness answers and
says, he cannot say positively he does, but it strikes him that
there was a question or two asked Miss Charlotte Scarborough, viz. whether it was with a free will; he does not
recollect the time; but that he ,does not recollect that Andrew
Low, senior, was present when he came in ; Mr..Scarboroiigh
said he had sent for witness, as such to a deed from Miss Scarborough to her mother, of property, which as a dutiful child she
had made. Witness asked Miss Scarborough if it was her voluntary act. Mr. Low replied, that witness was called in to
witness the deed, and for no other purpose ; she did not read
the deed, or hear it read in witness's presence. It was executed
at Mr. Scarborough's house, in West Broad Street."
At the April adjourned term of 1846, the cause came up for
argument before the Circuit Court, when the bill was. dismissed.
The complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Holmes, for the appellant,'and Mr.
Johnson (Attorney-General), for the appellee.

196

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

Mr. Holmes first remarked upon the lapse of time, which he
contended was not sufficient to bar a recovery: 3 Atk. 558;
2 Eden, 285; 2 Story's Eq., § 1520, 1521; 1 Howard, 189;
4 Howard, 560.
The points raised by the pleadings in behalf of complainant,
for cancellation of the deed, were, 1. Duress.
2. Want of consideration.
3. Fraud, growing out of the relation of the parties as parent
I
trustee and cestui que trust.
and1. child,
Duress.
(Mr. Holmes commented upon the evidence
in
the case, to establish this.)
2. Want of consideration. It is admitted that mere inadequacy of price is not of itself a distinct ground of relief in
equity. But, under peculiar circumstances, it may amount to
such fraud as will be relieved against. 1 Story's Eq., § 246;
1 Dess. Eq. Rep. 651 ; 11 Wheat. 124.
3. The'relation of the parties; and
1st. Of parent and .hild." All contracts and conveyances,
whereby benefits are secured by children to thei' parents, are
objects of jealousy. 1 Story's Eq. Jur., § 310; 2 Atk. 85, 258;
4 Wash. C. C. 397; 12 Peters, 253; 2 Johns. Ch. 252.
2d. The relation of trustee and cestui que trust. Taylor,
the grantee in trust, and Scarborough, were two of the executors
of the will of Isaac. The will was proved only five days before the execution of the deed. Executors are trustees for legatees. 1 P. Wms. 544, 575; 1 Story's Eq., § 322 ; 7 Yes. 166;
I Story's Eq., § 423; 10 Peters, 639.
Both executors and ordinary trustees are prohibited by the
rules of courts of equity, from considerations of general policy,
rom dealing with those whose interests are intrusted, during
the continuance of the fidticiary relation. 1 Story's Eq.,
§4 321, 322; Hatch v. Hatch, 9 Ves. 292; 1 Johns. Oh. 497, 620;
4 Johns. Oh. 303; 7 Johns. Ch. 174; Lewin on Trustees, 376;
Willis on Trustees, 163 ; Fonbl. Eq., book 2, § 7, and notes; 1
Mad. Ch. 110 et seq.; 2 Mad. Oh. 132; Sugden on Vendors, 421
to 436; Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 421; 1 Peters, C. 0.
364; 4 Dess. 654; Ex Parte Bennett, 10 Yes. 381, 385, 386;
14 Yes. 91, 273; 13 Yes. 47.
The case of Hatch v. Hatch, 9 Yes. 292, proves that the rule
of prohibition extends to conveyances without consideration of
money, as for friendship, kindness, and regard, &c., &c. And
it is settled in Ex Parte Bennett, 10 Yes. 393, that, in order
to set aside the sale, it is not necessary to show that the trustee
has made any advantage. And see 1 Story's Eq., § 322.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

197

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

The -conduct of the executors having been a breach of trust,
it is unnecessary to consider the distinction, if any really exists,
between actual and constructive fraud. There is no difference,
legally, in the degree of the fraud, and the distinction is between the same kind of fraud, one supported by evidence of
actual imposition, and the other being inferred from circumstances. In neither case does the court. regard the morality or
immorality of the transaction. Ex Parte Bennett, 10 Yes. 393 ;
8 Wheat. 463. All such cases are forbidden by "the morality
and policy of the law, as it is administered in courts of equity.
Michoud v. Girod, 4 Howard, 503.
The whole doctrine on this subject has been condensed and
illustrated by this court in the case of Michoud v. Girod, 4
Howard, 503. The case is too recent to require any particular examination. There the executorg, being themselves coheirs and legatees, bought the estate of their testator at a
public -sale judicially ordered, denied any fraud in fact or
intention, declared that the purchases were rightfully made
for a fair price, and yet this court say, in reference to such a
transaction, that "an executor or administrator is in equity a
trustee for the next of kin, legatees, and creditors, and that we
have been unable to find any one well-considered decision, with
other cases, or any one case in the books, to sustain the right
of an executor to become the purchaser of the property'which
he represents, or any portion of it, though he has done so for a
fair pice, without fraud, at a public sale." Ibid., 553, 557.
This language covers the whole ground contended for, though
the purchase in that case having been per interpositam personarn was the reason, probably, why the court declared that it
"carries fraud on the face of it." And .in the same case this
court, commenting upon Davoue v. Fanning, said, - "The inquiry in such a case is not whether there was or was not fraud
in fact. The purchase is void, and will be set aside at the
instance of the cestui que trust, and a resale ordered, on the
ground of the temptation to abuse, and of the danger of imposition inaccessible'to the eye of the court." Ibid., 557.
It would be difficult in principle to recognize a distinction
between Davoue v. Fanning and the case at bar. In that case
a purchase was made per interpositarp ersonam for the wife of
the executor; here a voluntary conveyance (by which is meant
a conveyance without consideration) is taken to one executor
for the benefit of the wife of another,- that is, for the benefit
of that other, and who himself procured the conveyance to be
made. If Scarborough had taken the conveyance directly to
himself, or through Taylor, the executor, for his own benefit,
17 *

198

S'UPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

such a transaction could not stand. Will it be permitted to
stand, his wife being the cestui que trust for life ?
(Mr. Holmes then argued that the marriage settlement, which
was stated in the deed to be one of the considerations thereof,
had been treated by all parties for a long time as a void instrument ; and then proceeded to examine the doctrine of estoppel
as applicable to the case.)
If, then, for any of the reasons assigned,- duress, the relation of the parties, fraud actual or constructive, -the deed of
complainant cannot be upheld as a family compromise, between
which and the present case there is not the least analogy, the
question then recurs, To what relief is complainant entitled?
•1. She is entitled to have the deed cancelled. 2. To an account of the personal property, and
3. To an account of the rents and profits of the real estate
from the executors of William Taylor, the trustee, and
4. To a settlement of the entire fund upon trustees for her
separate use during, life, and after her death to her children, or
such other equitable settlement as the court may, decree.
Mr Johnson, for the. appellees, contended,
I. That, as it is now admitted 'that complainant was of age
at the time the deed of 22d January, 1828, was executed by her
to William Taylor, the character of the said deed takes it out
of the principles by which, in certain cases, deeds are in equity
considered void, because of the relations of the parties to the
same. Pratt v. Barker, 1 Si. 1; 2 Cond. Eng. Ch. 1; Hunter v. Atkyns, 8 Cond. Eng. Oh. 303, 313, 321; Tendril v.
Smith, 2 Atk. 85; Manners v. Banning, 2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 282;
Smith v. Low, 1 .Atk. 490; Gory v. Gory, 1 Yes. sen. 19;
Brown v. Garter, 5 Ves. 876; Hotchkis v. Dickson, 2 Bligh, 348;
Tweddell v. Tweddell, 11 Cond. Eng. Oh. 1-8; Jenkins v.
Pye, 12 Pet. 241; 253.
II. That if the deed was at any time within such principle,
the long acquiescence, with knowledge, deprives the grantor of
the right to avoid it on that ground. Peck v. Randall, 1 Johns.
165 ; Mooers v. White, 6 Johns. Ch. 372; 2 Story's Eq. 736 ;
Elmendorff v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 168, 169, 171; Bank of
United States v. Daniels, 12 Pet. 32; Foster v. Hodgson, 19
Yes. 185; Gregory v. Gregory, Coop. 201; Prevost v. Gratz, 6
/Wheat. 497.
III. That there is no eiidence of duiess in fact, or of undue
influence, or of fraud ; that the deed was in all respects a fair
and proper deed, being supported by the consideration of love
and affection ; and if that of itself was not sufficient, it is valid

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

199

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

by reason of the marriage contract between the father and
mother of the complainant, of the 18th April, 1805, which was
omitted to be recorded in Georgia, where the property lay.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The object of the complainant below, (the appellant here,)
as disclosed in her bill, is to vacate the deed, executed on the
22d day .f January, 1828, by her before her marriage, conveying to William Taylor in trust for the use of the mother of
the grantor for life, (exempt from the debts of her father,) and
after the death of her father and mother, for the use in equal
portions of the said grantor, and of her brothers and sisters, all
the property real and personal which was given to the said
grantor by the will of her uncle Robrt Isaac, whose .will is
made an exhibit in the cause and referred to in the deed.
The grounds on which this deed is impeached are the following: -that it.was founded on no real consideration; was
executed during the nonage of the complainant, and whilst she
was living in the family of her parents; that it was extorted
from her by false representations, both as to her filial duties,
and her rights to the property left her by her uncle; and of
extreme urgency and harsh treatment on the part of her parents,
to procure its execution; and of the hope, by a compliance
with their importunities, of reconcilirg her parents to her marriage with her husband, which marriage .they had theretofore
opposed. The objection of nonage must be surrendered in this
investigation, it being ascertained that the complainant was
some few months over majority when the deed was executed.
The other allegations, as resting upon the proofs in the cause,
and upon the law as applicable to them, remain for consideration.
The rules of law supposed to control the contracts of parties
who do not stand upon a perfect equality, but who deal at a
disadvantage on the one side, whether applicable to the relations of parent and child, trustee and cestui que trust, attorney
and client, or principal and agent, have been laid down in
various cases in the courts both of England and of our own
country. To trace these rules to the several cases, by which
they have been propounded would be an undertaking rather of
curiosity, than of necessity or usefulness here, as the extent to
which this court has applied them, or is disposed to apply, them
in cases resembling the present, may be found within a familiar
and direct range of inquiry. They are aptly exemplified by
the late Justice Story, in his treatise on Equity Jurisprudence,
Vol. I. § 307, where, speaking of frauds which "arise from
some peculiar confidence or fiduciary relation between the par-

200

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

ties," he remarks, _" In this class of cases there is often found
some intermixture of deceit, imposition, overreaching, unconscionable advantage, or other mark of direct and positive fraud.
But the principle on which courts of equity act in regard there-,
to stands independent of any such ingredients, upon a motive
of public policy; and it is designed in some degree as a protection to the parties against the effects of overweening confidence
and self-delusion, and the infirmities of hasty and precipitate
judgment. These courts will therefore often interfere in such
cases, where, but for such peculiar relations, they would wholly
abstain from granting relief, or grant it in a very modified and
abstemious manner." He proceeds, § 308, - " It is undoubtedly
true, that it is not upon the feelings which a delicate and honorable man must experience, nor upon any notion of discretion, to
prevent a voluntary gift or other act of a man whereby he strips
himself of his property, that courts of equity have deemed themselves t liberty to interpose in cases of this sort. They do not
sit, or affect to sit, in judgment upon cases as custodes norum,
enforcing the strict rules of morality. But they do sit to enforce
what has not inaptly been called a technical morality. If confidence is reposed, it must be faithfully acted upon, and preserved from any intermixture of imposition. If influence is acquired, it must be kept free from the taint of selfish interests,
and cunning, and overreaching bargains. If the means of personal control are given, they must be always restrained to purposes of good faith and personal good. Courts of equity will
not, therefore, arrest or set aside an act or contract, merely because a man of more honor would not have entered into it.
There must be some relation between the parties which compels the one to make a full discovery to the other, or to abstain
from all selfish projects. But when such a relation does exist,
courts of equity, acting upon this superinduced ground, in aid
of general morals, will not suffer one party, standing in a situation of which he can avail himself against the other, to derive
advantage from that circumstance." Applying the principles
thus annunciated and drawn from an extensive collection of
the English cases to the, relation of parent and child, and to
transactions occurring in that relation, the same author remarks, § 309, -"
The natural and just influence which a
parent has over a child renders it peculiarly important for
courts of justice to watch over and protect the interests of the
latter; and therefore all contracts and conveyances, whereby
benefits are secured by children to their parents, are objects of
jealousy, and if they are not entered into with scrupulous good
faith, and are not reasonable under the circumstances, they will

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

201

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

be set aside, unless third persons have acquired an interest under
them."
The same principle has been clearly put by Justice Washington, in the case of Slocum and Wife v. Marshall, 2 Wash.
C. C. 400, where, in stating that case, he remarks, -" The
grantor, a young lady who from her birth had not but on
one occasion left the roof of her father, - bound to him by the
strong ties of filial affection,- accustomed to repose in his advice and opinion the most unbounded confidence, and to consider his request ever as equivalent to a command,- is informed by him that a certain portion of her property had been conveyed to him by her mother, but that the same, from some legal
objection, had failed to take effect. She is then requested to
confirm this titles-and at the same time is assured by her father,
that his design in obtaining this confirmation is to promote her
interest as well as his own. She reflects upon the proposal,
and, influenced by the double motive of promoting her own interest and that of her father, and of fulfilling the intentions of
her dead mother, she makes the conveyance." He proceeds," A transaction attended by such circumstances will naturally
excite the suspicions of a court of equity." It has been insisted
that, for the principles just stated, the sanction of this court
cannot be avoached; but that, on the contrary, they have been
weakened, if not rejected, by the doctrines ruled in the case of
Jenkins v. Pye, 12 Peters, 241. The peculiar features of the
last-named case, which may in some respects distinguish it
from the one now under consideration, and be thought to
bring it less obviously within the principles above stated, need
not be pointed out; but we inquire what are in truth the doctrines ruled in the case in 12 Peters; and whether they are not
substantially, nay literally, those propounded by Justices Story
and Washington. In the case of Jenkins v. Pye, this court refuse to adopt the rule which they said had in the argument been
assumed as the doctrine of the English chancery, viz. that a deed
from a child to a parent should, upon considerations of public
policy arising from the relation of the parties, be deemed void.
They deny, indeed, that this is the just interpretation of the
English decisions relied on, but declare that all the leading cases
they have examined are accompanied with some ingredient showing undue influence exercised by the parent, operating upon the
fears or hopes of the child; and showing reasonable grounds to
presume, that the act was not perfectly free and voluntary on
the part of the child. But the court, whilst they deny that a
deed from a child to a parent should prim&facie be held absolutely void, as unequivocally declare, that "it is undoubtedly

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

the duty-of courts of equity carefully to watch and examine
the circumstances attending transactions of this kind, when
brought under review before them, to discover if any undue
influence has been exercised in obtaining the conveyance." Between the doctrine here ruled and, the principles stated by Justices Story and Washington, no difference, much less any contradiction; can be perceived. For why this watchfulness, thus
enjoined as a duty, this severe and peculiar scrutiny as applicable to contracts between parent and child, but that they are
justly. "objects of jealousy," rendered so by the relation of the
contracting parties, -a relation aptly and naturally productive
of powerful influence on the one hand, and of submission on
the other, -subjecting such transactions to presumptions never
attaching ayriori to contracts between parties standing upon
a perfect equality.
And now let the character of the contract under consideration, and of the circumstances surrounding the execution of
that contract, be subjected to the test rationally and justly imposed by the rules above stated.
This.is a contract between parent and child, operating by
its terms exclusively for the benefit of the former, and to the
prejudice of the latter; for it transferred from her a valuable
interest, by the very terms of the transaction admitted to be
legally and absolutely hers, and by the same terms transferred
it without the shadow of an equivalent received or proffered;
and for which, the testimony conclusively shows, none could
possibly be given. Thus far the provisions of the contract.
With regard to the circumstances attending and surrounding
its execution. It is shown that the grantor in this deed, though
of age, had little more than attained to majority; that she was
living in the house with her parents,- her only home; and may
fairly be presumed to have been liable to the influence of feelings and habits which, in the absence of contravening evidence,
would control the dispositions and conduct of a youthful
female thus situated. She might be moulded to almost any
thing, in compliance with the earnest wishes (with her habitually yielded to as commands) of her parents. Those parents,
.who once had lived in affluence and luxury, had, with all the
-h'abits and necessities which'such a condition naturally creates,
by commercial reverses been brought to indigence; from the
date of the purchase by Robert Isaac of the property in dispute ,
had been permitted by him to occupy and enjoy it. In fact, it
was apparently their only means of shelter or support. In this
state of the family, Robert Isaac by his .will bestowed the
whole of this! property upon the complainant; and it has been

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

203

Taylor v. Taylor et al.
argued that, with her knowledge of the situation of her parents,
the impulses of filial duty and affection might of themselves
have formed a sufficient groundwork for the complainant's con"veyance. However hazardous it might be to prescribe, as a
rule of right or of property, imperfect obligations which the law
does not originally enforce, this argument can be deemed satisfactory in instances only in which the motives supposed to enter into such obligations are shown to have been free and
unconstrained in their operation. In the present instance, too,
independently of the influences which will be shown to have
been brought to bear upon the transactioh, it is thought that
the injunctions of filial duty and affection would have demanded something less than the surrender of all possessed by
the grantor; and would have been satisfied with a concession,
as to which there probably would never have existed a difficulty,- one, indeed, that seems to have been assented to in
practice,- the occupation and enjoyment of the property during
their lives, by the parents of the grantor.
Nay, it would, seem
that proper parental tenderness, and solicitude for the welfare
of the child, or the true principles of rectitude and fairness,
would have permitted nothing beyond this. And in the estimate of motives which may have led to the transaction under
review, it should not be without weight, that this same filial
duty and affection, however commendable in themselves, and
however their spontaneous action may be recognized and binding, strengthen the probability of their being converted into
means of wrong and oppression; and this very probability it is
which challenges the duty of watchfulness and jealousy in the
courts, in scanning the transactions of those whose peculiar
situation exposes them to danger from such means.
Immediately after the death of Robert Isaac, it seems that
the various appliances designed to withdraw from the complainant the fruits of the bounty of her affectionate uncle were
put into strikingly active operation. Directly following the death
of Isaac, it is charged in the bill, came the urgency of the complainant's family, and their reproaches against her for having
intercepted, as they said, the bounty which but for her would
have flowed to the family; and for having dictated to her uncle
the disposition of his property; thereby having ruined their
prospects, and broken the heat of complainant's father. The
natural effects of such appeals upon the feelings of an affectionate and sensitive girl, or even upon a spirit awake to the impulses of pride alone, can easily be comprehended. Then, as is
alleged, was the reluctance of the complainant to despoil herself
of her property ascribed to the avarice of her intended hus-

204

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor v. Taylor et al.

band; and then, too, amidst her perplexity and distress, upoi
consultation between both her parents, was suggested to he
the device of a letter from her, declaring her belief of the wisi
of the testator, Isaac, to bestow the property for the benefit of
the family; and asking the corisent of the father of the complainant to a settlement of the property in conformity with
such a wish. Although these allegations are not supported by
direct statements of witnesses, yet the intrinsic evidence flowing from 6ther conduct of the parties to these transactions, and
that presented by the written documents in this cause, impart to the above allegations a force equal, if not surpassing,
that which an explicit narrative by witnesses could give them.
And here it is worthy of remark, that the will of Robert Isaac
contains no expression nor hint of a desire, or intention, that
the property should go according to the supposition assumed;
or according to the provisions of the deed subsequently exeonted. This circumstance alone should be one of controlling
influence, even if the testator could be regarded as a person of
a capacity and character of the most inferior grade. But none
can fail to perceive, from the proofs in this cause, that the testator was a man of intelligence and sagacity, extensively practised in the business of life. He strongly declares his affection
for his niece, and as clearly gives to her, and to her only, the
property in dispute. What room is here for assuming, that
others, and not this niece, were the chief objects of his bounty?
Such an assumption is forbidden by every rule of law, or of
common sense; it goes very far, of itself, to stamp with fraud
and contrivance the means resorted to in order to divert that
bounty to other ends.
We will next consider the letter (Exhibit A, filed with the
answer of Goodwin) addressed by the complainant, then Charlotte Scarborough, to her father; concocted, as is alleged by
the complainant, between her parents, as preparatory and introductory to the wrong about to be consummated; in which
letter she professes her readiness and her desire to settle the
property derived from her uncle to the use of her parents for
their lives, and after their deaths to the use of all the children
equally. The will of Robert Isaac was admitted to probate on
the 9th day-of January, 1828, and amongst the persons who
qualified as-executors of that will, were William Scarborough,
the father of the complainant, and William Taylor, the trustee
in the deed now sought to be vacated. These men, the depositaries of the solemn trust reposed in them by Isaac, - fully
capable of comprehending his will, and one of them sustaining
the further obligation of a parent to protect the interests of this

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

205

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

young woman,-make themselves the ready instruments to
betray this confidence, and this in violation of the clearest language in which their duty could possibly have been prescribed.
How far this conduct can be excused or palliated under the
pretext of duty to Mrs. Scarborough, founded on the alleged
marriage contract, or on any supposed intention of Isaac flowing
from the same source, will hereafter be shown in the conduct
of Scarborough and Taylor in reference to this very property,
when dealing with it for their own personal advantage. This
conduct will furnish a most efficient clew in unravelling the
texture of the deed in question.
On the 10th of January, 1828, the day succeeding the probate of the will of Robert Isaac, was written the letter above
mentioned from Charlotte Scarborough to her father. It seems
impossible to resist the evidence furnished by this singular production, that it was a fabrication, designed to conceal the very
facts and circumstances which it palpably betrays. In the first
place, it may be inquired why such a letter should be written,
and whether it would be usual or probable in a transaction between persons thus situated, if dictated solely by an admitted
sense of propriety, and sanctioned by a willingness of both the
parties to it. Can we accredit the probability of a formal
diplomatic communication from a daughter just grown, to her
father, residing under the same roof, to justify an act which
they both believed it a sacred duty to perform? Again, let us
look at the declaration here so anxiously and pompously paraded, that, in the act about to be performed by this daughter,
-she 11was unbiased by any control whatsoever; and that, in the
liberty she was then using, she was acting by her own free will,
dictated by her feelings alone, and unknown to any person,"
and we shall perceive an apprehension, or consciousness of suspicions, which it was believed the simple transaction itself
would neither prevent nor allay. Here are the very clausula
inconsuet pointed to in Twyne's case, as the sure badges of
that which they are intended to hide. Why should this young
woman have taken such deliberate pains to declare, and to
place as it were on record, a history of her motives, - her entire
exemption from persuasion, authority, or even advice, in what
she was about to do in obedience to affection and a sense of
duty? If these had constituted the real incentive to her act,
would they have left room for one thought or surmise of dishonor, connected with the objects of that affection and duty ?
Such suspicions and surmises are rather the offspring of colder
calculation, and of the "compunctious visitings" that wait on
contemplated wrong. And again, in the concluding paragraph
18
VOL. V11.'

206

SUPREME GOURT.
Taylor v. T'aylor et al.

of this letter, may be seen a strong corroboration of this charge
in the complainant's bill, of the painful and discreditable imputations which had been made against her, as inducements to
come into the proposed arrangement. The language of this
paragraph is as follows: - " Most thankful do I feel for being
made the simple instrument of accomplishing the will of him
who has so kindly and generously placed his confidence in me,
and in acting thus, convince the world that my devoted affection for him was pure, disinterested, and unbiased by future
expectation." It will naturally occur to every one to inquire,
why this young woman should accuse herself, or fancy herself
accused by others, of unworthy motives or conduct, because
she had been the object of her uncle's affection? The rational
solution of the matter would seem to.be this, - that the assumption of such motives on the part of those around her, represented by them, too, as entering into the opinions of the
world, had been pressed as an efficient means of influence; and
that a vindication from their existence furnished a plausible
coloring for the proceeding about to be e'ffected. The tone,
the language, the artificial structure of this letter, its familiarity with the terms peculiar to the business of life, all bespeak
it, in our judgment, not the production of an inexperienced
girl, but of a far more practised and deliberate author. Lastly
may be mentioned, with respect to this letter, the care with
which ir'has been preserved, and placed beyond the control of
this daughter, as a prop to a transaction which could not stand
alone, and as a means of stilling the murmurings of future complaint; the very ends for which it at last emerges from its secret recess.
Next in the chain of evidence, and closely following its harbinger and herald, we will notice the deed itself from the complainant, conveying from her every description of property derived from her uncle; and it is one of the peculiarities of this
conveyance, not without significance, that it was executed bef6re there was an inventory made by the executor, to inform
the grantor specifically what she had a right to claim or to bestow. Turning then to the recitals of this deed, they must be
regarded as wholly irreconcilable -ith truth; and especially
with that uberrirmafides, that fulness of candor and fairness,
required in transactions between parent and child; transactions
upon their face, too, operating to the disadvantage of the latter.
This deed sets out a marriage contract entered, into between
Scarborough and his wife, anterior to their marriage, purporting
to cover a portion of the property in dispute ; it then states the
failure of this contract by reason of an omission to record it, and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

207

Taylor v. Tqylor et al.

proceeds to declare, that, some doubts having been suggested as
to the validity of the said marriage settlement, from the omission to record- the same, the said William Scarborough did, in
consequence of such doubts, transfer and convey all his right,
&c., to the said Robert Isaac, and that the said Isaac, having
departed this life, had left this property, with certain personal
estate, to his niece Charlotte Scarborough; and that she to
whom the devise and bequest had been made, being desirous
of carrying the marriage settlement into effect according to the
original intent of the parties, had, on coming of age, determined to convey all her right, title, and interest in the property:
derived from her uncle, for that purpose.
The deductions from these recitals, - nay, their necessary
meaning, we may add, their literal import, - are these. That the
conveyance from Scarborough to Isaac was with the sole view
of. effectuating the marriage settlement, and of curing any defects attributable to that contract ;-that Isaac took the property
clothed with this trust, and for no consideration moving from
himself; and vesting in him an absolute title or estate; - that
his devise and bequest to his niece were purely to secure the
same objects, and that she, fully aware of all these acts and intentions, had, as soon as she could legally do so, determined
upon their accomplishment. Such are the declarations and recitals contained in this deed; not one of which, save the statement of a project of a marriage settlement, that is not by the
evidence on the record shown to be palpably false. Thus, if
we look to the deed from Scarborough to Isaac of the 13th of
May, 1820, - to the agreement between Isaac and McHenry
as the agent of A. Lo~w & Co., in February, 1826,-and
to that between Robert Isaac and Andrew Low, on the Sth
of March, 1827,- and also to the return of the marshal of
the sale under execution of the personal property in dispute,
we find that Isaac was the purchaser and exclusive owner of
all this property, for a pecuniary consideration paid by him of
nearly twenty-three thousand dollars. Looking next from the
recitals of this deed to the will of Robert Isaac, we find no
ambiguity, no declaration, hint, or implication in the will to sustain these recitals; but every thing to falsify and condemn
them. We there see clearly the motive of the testator; his
affection for his favorite niece, and the subjects and the mode
with and by which he designed that his affection- should be
manifested. He gives to her, clear of all trusts or encumbrances, "the lot, dwelling-house, and all other improvements thereon, which formerly belonged to her father, together also with
the plaw, furniture of all kinds, books and prints, all of which

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor V. Taylor et al.

were purchased and paid for at marshal's sale by me." If this
clause of the will were shown to and clearly understood by the
complainant, it is difficult to conceive how it could be made rationally to express or imply a duty on her part to disrobe herself of this bounty, as being clearly designed for others, and
not for herself. The conduct of these persons, Scarborough
and Low, and of Taylor, who was named as trustee both in the
marriage settlement and in the deed from Charlotte Scarborough, furnishes convincing evidence of the light in which
the.y viewed any obligation supposed to be adhering to this
property, and forming a binding consideration, either legal or
moral, for the deed now impugned; that is, an obligation to
bestow it in conformity with the stipulations of the marriage
contract. But it may be-naturally asked, if this supposed obligation was limited to Charlotte Scarborough. Did it not, if
existing at all, extend equally to her father, and to the trustee
in the settlement, and to others acquainted or connected with
that contract ? In a moral view, at least, no difference is perceived in the position of these parties, and it is not pretended
that Charlotte Scarborough sustained any legal obligation to
convey away this property. Yet it is seen by the record, that
William Scarborough, to serve his convenience or his interest,
had no difficulty in subsequently encumoering it both to Low
and to Taylor, the trustee in the marriage settlement, or in subsequently selling it out and out to Isaac; and that this same
trustee, Taylor, manifested as little scraiple for the sarctimony
of his trust, in its application for his own benefit. And it
seems to us to be a most pregnant state of facts connected with
this deed, that, when it was to be executed, Taylor and Low,
-who had so dealt with this property as to be necessarily cognizant of the falsehood of the recitals it contained, were carried
to the house of Scarborough to become, the first the trustee,
the SeCond a witness to this instrument. The other witness to
this deed, John Guilmartin, seems to have been taken under the
stress of necessity, from the refusal of James Taylor to attest
the deed, and the manner in which the transaction impressed
itself upon Guilmartin is evinced in his deposition, in which he
says that he inquired of Miss Scarborough whether this deed
was her voluntary act, but was permitted to have no answer
from her, and was silenced in his inquiries by the remark from
Low, that the witness had been sent for to attest the deed, and
for no other purpose. This witness further swears, that the
deed was not read to nor by the grantor in his presence. He
states, moreover, this uncalled for remark on the part of the
father (although witness was not permitted to obtain informa-

-JANUARY TERM, 1850.

209

Taylor v. Taylor et al.

tion from the child), - that he, Scarborough, had sent for the
witness to attest "a deed from Miss Scarborough to her mother, which as a dutiful child she had made." Again, when this
deed from Charlotte Scarborough was to be proved, the only
witness to its execution called on was Andrew Low; he who
knew that its recitals were inconsistent with truth, he who
deemed all inquiry about the willingness of the grantor to make
it to be impertinent. John Guilmartin was passed by he might
have revealed, if called, circumstances coeval with the transaction, which would be calculated to remove or to weaken the
influence of seeming acquiescence, or of the lapse of time;
circumstances which time alone, in the absence of direct impeaching testimony, would be competent entirely to cover up.
The testimony adduced in support of the deed from the complainant falls far short of the object for which it was intended;
much of that evidence, too, seems to have been given under influences necessarily detracting from the weight which it otherwise might have had. It wholly fails to countervail the evidence arising from the statements of witnesses on the other
side; from the relative positions of the parties; and, more than
all, from the intrinsic nature and force of the documents relied
on both by plaintiff and defendants in the court below. From
a careful analysis of the facts and circumstances of this case,
we think the conclusion cannot be resisted, that the deed from
Charlotte Scarborough to William Taylor, of the 22d of January, 1822, was not a fair and voluntary transaction; but was
drawn from her by means and under influences which rendered
that conveyance void. We are, therefore, of the opinion, that
the real property conveyed by that deed should be reconveyed
to the said Charlotte, now Charlotte Taylor; and that the several articles of personal property bequeathed to her by her uncle,
Robert Isaac, so far as the same are now in existence, and in
the possession or under the control of Mrs. Julia Scarborough,
or of anyother person acting under her authority, or claiming
from her and not for valuable consideration without notice, or
claiming under like circumstances from any person by virtue
of the provisions of the deed of trust above mentioned, should
be delivered up to the complainant as her own propexty; but it
is the opinion of this court, that rents and profits for the use
and occupation of the real estate above mentioned,. or compensation for the use and enjoyment of the personal property bequeathed to the complainant, should not be allowed her under
all the circumstances attending this case; they are accordingly
hereby denied her. It is therefore, upon consideration, adjudged, ordered, and decreed, that the decree of the Circuit Court
18*

210

SUPREME

COURT.

Maxwell v. Kennedy et al.

for the Sixth Circuit and District of Georgia, pronounced in this
cause at the April term of that court in the year 1846, be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, and this cause is remanded to
that court, with directions to decree therein in conformity with
the opinion herein above expressed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE remarked, that the decree given in this
case was that which he wished to be given in the court below
But the judges of the Circuit Court not being of the same
opinion, the bill of complaint was dismissed, that there might
be-an early appeal to the Supreme Court. He concurs altogether in the reasoning and conclusions which have just been announced by the court.
Mr. Justice NELSON and Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to decree therein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

JOHN MAXWELL, ADINiSTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF ROBERT MAX.
WELL, DECEASED, AFPPELLANT, V. JOSEPH S. KENNEDY, JESSE
CARTER, MARY L. CARTER, HIS WIFE, DANIEL. E. HALL AND
DELPHINE HALL, HIS WIFE, AND MARTHA KENNEDY.
A lapse of forty-six years is a bar to relief in equity, although the creditor, during all

that time, supposed the debtor to be insolvent and not worth pursuing, where it
appears that for a considerable portion of that time he was in a condition to pay,
and the creditor might, by reasonable diligence, have discovered it, and recovered
the money by a suit at law.

Where, upon the case stated in the bill, the complainant is not entitled to relief by
reason of lapse of time and laches on his part, the defendant may demur.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The bill was filed in the court below by Maxwell, the appel-

