258

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilson v. Barnum.

of the present term of this court, to wit, on Friday, the 28th
ultimo, it is now here ordered by this court, that said motion
be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

JACOB P. WIlsON, -COMPLAINANT, v. DANIEL BARNUm.
The following question, sent up to this court upon a certificate of division in opinion
between the judges of the Circuit Court,- viz. "Whether, according to the true
construetion of the Woodworth patent, as amended, the machines made or used
by the defendant at the iime of filing the bill, or either of them simply, do or do
not infringe the said amended letters patent ?"--is a question of fact, over which
this court has no jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction given to it by statute in certified cases only extends to points of
law.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It is not necessary to do more than insert the statement of
facts and point of division, as they are found in the record.
Statement of Factssand Point of Division of Judges.
UNITED STATES

o"

AMERICA,

E'astern Districtof Pennsylvania.

At a Circuit Court'of the United States, begun and held at
the city of Philadelphia, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on the 13th day of November, in the year of our Lord 1849.
Present, the Honorable Robert C. Grier, and the Honorable
John K. Kane.
JACOB P.

WILSON V. DANIEL BARNUm

Statement of Facts.
This was a suit ' in equity. The bill was filed April 5tb,
1849, by the plaintiff, as assignee of letters patent issued to
William Woodworth. After due notice, a motion was made
for a spiecial injunction, which was fully heard before his Honor,
John K. Kane, at a regular Circuit Gourt, on the 21st, 22d,
23d, q4th, and 25th days of 11ay,,A. D. 1849, his Honor, Judge
Crier, being absent. The defendant resisted the motion, and
filed affidavits on his part, when, after a full hearing of the
parties and arguments of counsel, on the 1st day of June,
1849, a special injunction was granted, a copy of which is annexed to this statement. Afterwards, on the 4th day of June,
1849, the defendant filed an answer, setting up the fact of his
having a patent for his machine, and denying all similarity be-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

259

Wilson v. Barnum.

tween it. and that of the plaintiff; which same defence had
been previously- set up by the said affidavits, on the hearing
of the motion for the injunction. Afterwards, on the 29th
day of June, 1849, a motion was made by the defendant to'
dissolve the injunction, which motion was duly argued on the
bill and affidavits on the part of the plaintiff, and on the answer and affidavits on. the part of the defendant; and on the
1st day of August, 1849, an order was made in the cause directing an issue to be tried by a jury, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the .machines of the defendant were or were
not infringements of the machine of the plaintiff, and ordering
the injunction to stand, on the plaintiff giving security to the
defendant in the sum of ten thousand dollars, which was done.
The issue came on to be tried by a jury on the 17th day of
October, 1849, and after a protracted trial, the jury was discharged, not being able to agree.
At this present term of the court, both of the judges being
present, a motion was made by the defendant to dissolve the
injunction, and arguments of counsel were heard thereon.
Thereupon, without any decision being had on said motion,
and upon an agreement of the parties, with the consent and by
the direction of the, court, this cause was brought to a final
hearing on the pleadings and the proofs which had been taken
herein, as well as on the proofs and evidence which were put
in on the trial of the issue before the jury, and which lastnamed proofs and evidence were, for the purpose of said final
hearing, considered as proofs in this cause.
The pleadings were a bill, an answer, and a replicationi
copies of which are hereunto annexed, and a copy of all the
proofs and evidence used on said final hearing is also hereunto
annexed.
On said final hearing, it appeared and was determined by the
court as matter of fact,
1. That letters patent of the United States were issued to
William Woodworth, on the 27th day of December, 1828, of
the tenor and effect mentioned in the bill.
2. That William Woodworth died intestate, on the 9th day
of February, 1839, in the city of New York, and that William
W. Woodworth, his son, and one of his heirs at law, was thereupon duly appointed his administrator by the surrogate of the
city and county of New York.
3. That on the 16th day of November, 1842, an extension
of the said letters patent for seven years from the 27th day of
December, 1842, was duly granted by the United States, under
the eighteenth section of the Patent Act of July.4, 1836, to

260

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Barnum.

the said William W. Woodworth, as administrator as aforesaid..
4. That by an act of Congress of the United States, passed
February 26th, 1845, the said letters patent were further extended to the said William W. Woodworth, as administrator
as aforesaid, for seven years from the 29th day of December,
1849.
5. That on the' 8th day of July, 1845, the said letters
patent were surrendered for a defective specification, and renewed letters patent were thereupon issued on the same day, on
an amended'specification, to the said William W. Woodworth,
as administrator as aforesaid; which renewed letters patent were
of the tenor and effect set forth in the bill. An authenticated
copy of the said renewed letters patent of July 8, 1845, and
of the specification and drawings thereto, and an authenticated
copy of the said original letters patent of December 27th, 1828,
and of the specification and drawings thereto, were produced
on the hearing, and may be produced on argument, before the
Supreme Conit of. the United States.
6. That the exclusive right of the said renewed letters patent of July 8, 1845, for the district of Southwark, in the
county of Philadelphia, and Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
was vested in the plaintiff.
7. That the defendant had erected, within the said district
of Southwark, and used and operated therein, since the said exclusive right became vested in the plaintiff, and before the filing
of the bill, a machine for tonguing and grooving boards and
plank, and also a machine for planing boards and plank. Tne
machine for tonguing and grooving boards and plank was constructed as stated in the evidence. (A model thereof was produced on the hearing by the plaintiff, and-the machine itself
was produced on the hearing by the defendant. The same are
certified by'the clerk of the court, and may be used on argument befdre the Supreme Court of the United States.) The
machine for planing boards and plank was constructed as shown
by a model produced on the hearing by the plaintiff, and by
the machine itself on the hearing by the defendant. (The
same are certified by the clerk of the court, and may be used
on argument before [the] Supreme Court of the United States.)
8. That letters patent were issued -to the defendant on the
13th day of March, 1849, which are referred to in, and a copy
of which is annexed to, his answer herein.
On the, final hearing, the following question occurred, to
wit: Whether, according to the true construction of the Wood-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Wilson v. Barnum.

worth patent, as amended, the machines made or used by the,
defenidant, at the time of filing the bill, or either of them singly,
do or do not infringe the said amended letters patent.
On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
Whereupon, on a motion by William H. Seward and St.
George Tucker Campbell, plaintiff's counsel, it was ordered
that the point on which the disagreement hath happened may,
during the term, be stated, under the seal of the court, to
the Supreme Court to be finally decided.
R. C. GRIER.
J. K. KANE.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court 'upon a certificate of division, and has been submitted on printed arguments.
The plaintiff, who claims as assignee of what is generally
called the-Wdodworth patent, filed a.bill in equity, praying an
injunction against the defendant to restrain him from using a
certain machine, in which, as the complainant charged, boards
.were planed, tongued, and grooved in the same manner as in
the Woodworth machine; the machine of the defendant operating in the same way in every respect as the one for which
the complainant held the patent.
The defendant, in his answer, denied that his machine was
substantially like and upon the plan of the Woodworth machine. Other defences were also taken in the answer. But it
is not necessary to notice them, as they do not concern the
question certified.
A great mass of testimony was taken on both sides in the
Circuit Court, and models and drawings produced of the two
machines; all of which have been sent 'up for the examination
and consideration of this court, with the certificate of division.
On the final hearing of the case, the judges of the Circuit
Court differed in opinion on the following question :-" Whether, according to the true construction of the Woodworth patent,
as amended, the machines made or used by the defendant at
the, time of filing the bill, or either of them singly, do or do
not infringe the 'said amended letters patent?"
The question thus certified is one of fact, and has been discussed as such in the arguments offered on both sides. It is a
question as to the substantial identity of the two machines.
And its decision must depend upon the testimony of witnesses;
the examination of the models and drawings, or of the machines themselves; and the application of mechanical principles and combinations, which the court could learn only

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Barnum.

from the testimony of persons skilled in the science of mechanics.
The jurisdiction of this court to hear and determine a question certified from the Circuit Court is derived altogether from
the Act of 1802, ch. 31, ยง 6 (2 Stat. at Large, 159); and that
act evidently gives the jurisdiction only in cases where the
judges of the Circuit Court differ in opinion on a point of law.
The language of the whole provision upon this subject so clearly requires this construction, that it is unnecessary to comment
on it. And it would be utterly inconsistent with the well
known and established proceedings of courts of equity, as well
as courts of common law, to take out of a case duing its progress a single question of fact, and send it here with the evidence upon that p6int only, for the final decision of this court.
In the case before us, a great number of facts must be ascertained and determined from the evidence, before a final opinion
could be formed upon the question certified.
Besides, this act of Congress has been in force for nearly half
a century, and has been repeatedly acted on in this court; and
it has uniformly received the construction we now give to it.
-In the multitude of questions which have been certified this
court has never taken jurisdiction of a question of fact. And
in a question of law it requires the precise point to be stated,
otherwise the case is remanded without an answer.
The question now .certified being one of fact, we have no
jurisdiction; and the case must therefore be remanded to the
Circuit Court, to be there proceeded in as law and justice may
require.

Order.
This. cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and on the point or question
on which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in
-opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. And it appearing to this
court, upon an inspection of the said transcript, that no point
in the case, within the meaning of the act of Congress, has been
certified to this court, the point or question being one of fact,
it is thereupon now here ordered and degreed by this court,
that this cabse be, and the same is hereby-dismssed, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to law.

