274

SUPREME

COURT.

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

The testator could not have intended to devise over property
thus received and necessarily appropriated. . He did not intend
to withhold from these children, the objects of his regard and
of his bounty, during their lives, the use of the property he

gave them.

The. nature of this devise goes strongly to show.

that the testator intended it should take effect "on the death

of the grandchildren before they became of age, having no lawful issue."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern

District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.

On con-

sideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause

-be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JONATHAN M. REED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE PROPRIETORS OF
LOCKS AND CANALS ON MERRImAC RIvER, DEFENDANTS.

It is the duty of the court to give a construction to a deed so far as the intentiol of
the parties can be elicited therefrom; but the doubt in the application of the descriptive portion of a deed to external objects usually arises from what is called a
latent ambiguity, which has its origin in parol testimony and must necessarily be
solved in the same way. It therefore, in such cases, becomes a question to be decided by ajury, what was the intention of the parties to a deed.
Therefore, there was no error in the following instructions given by the court to the
jury, viz.:-" That if the 'jury believed from the evidence, looking to the monuments, length of lines and quantities, actual occupation, &c., that it was more
probable that the parties to the mortgage intended to include therein the demanded
premises than otherwise, they should return their verdict for the tenants."
Where a claim to land was maintained upon an uninterrupted possession of forty
years, the death of the original holder and subsequent reception of rent by his
widow did not break the continuity of possession. She is liable to account for the
rent to the heirs.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the State of Massachusetts.

It was a suit brought by Reed, a citizen of Michigan, against
an incorporated company, called "The Proprietors of Locks and
Canals on Merrimac River," in a plea of land, wherein the
said Reed demanded against the proprietors a certain piece or
parcel of land in the city of Lowell and State of Massachu-

setts, containing seven acres and one hundred and forty-two
and a quarter square rods.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

275

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

The state of the case was this.
It was admitted that the demanded premises were part of the
farm of Thomas Fletcher, who died seized thereof in 1771,
leaving a widow and two daughters, Rebecca and Joanna.
THo lAs FLETCHOR.

I
REBECCa. = JACOB KITTREDGE.

JOAwxA = BENJmIN

MELVIr.

In 1773, Rebecca married Doctor Jacob Kittredge, and removed to Brookfield, Worcester County, Mass., where they lived
and died, - he in the summer of 1813, and she in September,
1818, -leaving eight children and the heirs of two deceased
children as their heirs at law, and under them the tenants claim
to derive their title.
In 1777, Joanna married Benjamin Melvin, senior, who removed home upon the farm. She died in September, 1826, and
he died in April, 1830, leaving seven children, as their heirs at
law, under whom the plaintiff claims to derive his title.
On the 27th of April, 1782, two transactions occurred which
were the source of this dispute. .Kittredge and wife conveyed
to Melvin one half of 130 acres (which appeared to be the
paternal estate), for the consideration of £ 300. In order to
secure the payment of this Z 300, Melvin (who now owned
one half by virtue of the deed just mentioned, and the other
half in right of his wife) united with his wife in executing
upon the same day to Kittredge a mortgage of a part of the
land which is thus described, viz. - "A certain tract or parcel
of land, lying and being in Chelnsford, in Chelmsford Neck, so
called, in said county of Middlesex, containing by estimation
one hundred acres, be the same more or less, lying altogether in
one piece, without any division, except only one county bridle
road, which runs through the northerly part of said farm or tract
of land, and being a part of the real estate of Mr. Thomas
Fletcher, late of said Chelmsford, deceased; together with all
the buildings of every kind, and all the privileges, appurtenances, and commodities thereunto belonging, or in any wise appertaining."
The great question in the case was, whether or not this mortgage included the demanded premises. On the part of the
plaintiff in error, who claimed under Melvin, it was contended
that it did not, and that of course the residuum belonged to
Melvin:
On the part of the tenants, it was contended that the mortgage included them, and if so, that the estate afterwards became
absplute in Kittredge.

276

SUPREME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

In 1789, Kittredge entered upon the property mortgaged, for
condition broken, and on the 17th of April; 1789, leased the
property to Melvin for one year, and on the 17th of April, 1793,
renewed the lease for a year.
In 1794, Kittredge brought an action against Melvin to recover the premises, in which suit judgment was rendered by
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in favor of the
plaintiff, and an habere facias possessionem issued on the 19th
of April, 1796.
It is not necessary to state the vast number of leases and
deeds, and other evidence, introduced into the cause by both
sides, to show that the mortgage did or did not include the
demanded premises; because it will be perceived, by referring
to the opinion of this court, that they considered the question
to be one appropriately falling within the 'province of a jury,
and not one of construction of a deed to be settled by the court.
The tenants also toolk defence upon another ground, namely,
that if the demanded premises were not included in the mortgage of Melvin and his wife, dated April 27th, 1782, nor in the
leases of 1789 and 1793, from Kittredge to Melvin, nor in the
judgment of Kittredge against Melvin of 1796, yet the entry of
Kittredge in 1796, and .his ejectment of Melvin,'his wife and
family, operated as a disseizin of Melvin and his wife, and that,
from the continued possession of Kittredge and his lessees, and
their occupation and improvement of the demanded premises as
a part of the Cheever Farm, and from the fact that every successive grantee occupied and improved them in the same manner, they would pass by the description contained in any of the
deeds from the Kittredge heirs, or any of the subsequent deeds
under which the tenants claim, and the heirs of both Kittredge
and Melvin, and their wives, would be barred.
The title of those claiming under Melvin (as Reed, the present plaintiff in error, is already stated to have done) was brought
formerly before the Massachusetts courts, as appeared by the
following agreement, which was
filed in the cause :
•
:

1 - 1

"It is also admitted by the tenants, that the heirs of Benjamin, and Joanna Melvin entered into the demanded premises in
July, A. D. 1832, claiming the same; and in May, A. D. 1833,
commenced writs of entry upon their own seizin for the recovery
of the same; and that they prosecuted the same suits until the
April term of the Supreme Judicial Court, Middlesex County,
A. D. 1835, when they'became nonsuit; and thereupon commenced a writ of right, in which they joined, and prosecuted
the same until the October term, Supreme Judicial Court, 1836,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

277

1

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

when Rufus Melvin, one of the heirs, executed a releas6 of said
action to the tenant.
(Signed,)
JOHN P. ROBINSON,
"Octo6er 31st, 1845.

Attorney for the Tenants."

In October, 1845, the cause came on for trial in the Circuit
Court, when the jury found a verdict for the tenants. The
court, however, gave certain instructions to the jury, which
were excepted to, and are thus stated in the record.
"Upon this evidence the court gave full instructions to the
jury; and among them the demandant excepts to the follow-

ing:

-

"1st. That if they believed, from the evidence, looking to
the monuments, length of lines, and quantities, actual occupation, &c., that it was more probable the parties to the mortgage
of 1782 intended to include therein the demanded premises
than otherwise, they should return their verdict for the tenants.
"2d. That the verdict of a former jury introduced by the
tenants was not evidence'to control this case oi the issue.
"3d. But if they should believe the testimony of James Melvin, that Doctor Jacob Kittredge pointed out on the land of his
father certain monuments as the southern boundary of his mortgage, it would be strong evidence that the parties to the mortgage intended originally to limit the mortgage to the line from
these pmonuments; and that this evidence was strengthened
and supported by the other testimony concerning the'boundary
south on Jonathan Williams.
"4th. That if the tenants under their respective leases from
Kittredge occupied and cultivated to the Tyler line, in such a
manner as the owners of such land would ordinarily occupy
and cultivate, and such an occupation had continued for the
period of thirty years, it would constitute such an adverse possession as would bar the demandant's right to recover.
"5th. That the possession of the premises by said lessees,
undet the lease, was the possession of Kittredge, the lessor, and
his heirs, he claiming to have a deed which included them,.
and having turned Melvin out of possession; if it was of such
a character as amounted to a disseizin, it would in law enure
to the b6nefit of Kittredge and his heirs, and would be the disseizin and adverse possession of the lessor.
"6th. That if the possession of Cheever and Thissell, in
1796, under Kittredge, included the detnanded premises, and
the same possession had been continued by the subsequent lessees, as the evidence tended to show it had been, down to
the entry of the heirs of Melvin and wife, in 1832i it constiVOL. V111.

24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

tuted in law such a continuity of possession as would bar the
demandant's right to recover.
"7th. That there was evidence, not contradicted, of a claim
to the premises, by Mrs. Kittredge, after the death of her husband, and of rents being paid to her; but if Mrs. Kittredge,
after the death of her husband, forgetting she had signed the
original deed, claimed said premises, and received the rent
therefor by mistake, till the heirs or their guardians discovered
she had signed the deed, and the rents were then settled with
them, the continuity of adverse possession would not thereby
be disturbed; buf there was no evidence of those rents which
were paid to Mrs. Kittredge going to the heirs, or being
repaid to them, except what is to be inferred from her will, and
the tenants recognizing the title of the heirs of Kittredge after
the widow's death, and taking deeds of them. That, on the
death of Kittredge, his rights descended to his heirs at law,
some of whom were minors; that they became entitled- to
them, and the rents and profits paid by the lessees; that if the
tenants, who held leases from Jacob Kittredge, and entered under them, remained in possession after his death, they should
properly in law be regarded as tenants holding at will, or by
sufferance of or under his heirs ; and if the tenants saw fit, for
any part of the time, to pay rent to Mrs. Kittredge, the mother,
or did it by mistake, and afterwards paid it to the heirs, or their
guardians, and took deeds from them, such payments to her
ought not to impair the rights of the heirs, or those claiming
under them; but the whole transaction was evidence to be
weighed by the jury of a continued occupation by the lessees
for and in -behalf of those entitled in law to the rights which
Kittredge claimed when alive.
"To which instructions of the court, given as aforesaid, the
said plaintiff at the trial excepted, and prayed this, his bill of
exceptions, to be signed and sealed by the court. All which,
being found true, the same is accordingly signed and sealed.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my
[SEAL.], ISEAL.]
hand and seal.

"L-Evi

WOODBURY,

Ass't Justice of Supreme Court."
Upon these exceptions, the case came up to this court.
It was argued by 1M1r. Parkerand Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff
in error, and Mr. Robinson and A'Ir. Webster, for the tenants.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error
were the following.
As to the first instruction. That the presiding -judge erred

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

279

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.
in submitting the question of the extent of land embraced in
the mortgage from Melvin and wife to Dr. Kittredge, to the
jury, as he did.
1. Because the mortgage and deed of the same date from
Kittredge and wife to Melvin, senior, constituted in law one
transaction, and the mortgage, viewed in this connection, called for some limit short of the whole land described in the deed
from Kittredge and wife, which fact the tenants were estopped
to deny ; and if the jury were satisfied that the town bridleroad existed at the date of the transaction, at the place contended for by the plaintiff, and that it constituted as much of a division as the bridle-road expressly excepted by the parties as
making a division, - the evidence showing no other division
answering the call of the mortgage, - the town bridle-road became the southern boundary of the mortgage by intendment
of law and legal construction, and the jury were bound to find
it so; and the presiding judge should so have instructed them,
instead of leaving to their decision the meaning of the language
of the mortgage.
2. Because, if the jury believed the testimony of James Melvin, - viz. "1That his father and Dr. Kittredge, just before the
making of the first lease bhtween them, went upon the land
and established the stake and stones and black oak stump with
stones on it, at the place testified to by him s the southern
boundary of the land claimed by Kittredge," - then this fact,
with the subsequent indentures of leases between them, recognizing these monuments and the Williams land as the southern
boundary of the land claimed by Kittredge, and the writ and
judgment thereon, with the solemn and. repeated recitals and
statements contained in them, the admission of the tenants
that the Williams land extended as far north as these monuments, and included the* demanded premises, and the fact that
Melvin subsequently, in November, 1794, repurchased the demanded premises of Williams for a valuable consideration, constitute in law a conclusive presumption, against Kittredge and
all claiming under him, of the extent of the land then owned
by Kittredge, and that both Kittredge and all claiming under
him were thereby estopped to say that K(ittredge at that time
owned the demanded premises, or that his mortgage included
them. And the presiding judge should have so instructed the
jury on the evidence.
3. Because the law gives a preference to actual monuments,
over length of lines, quantities, &c. ; and the presiding judge
ought to have so instructed the jury.
4. The burden being upon the tenants to satisfy the jury

280

SUPREME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

that the mortgage from Melvin and wife to Kittredge included
the demanded premises, the instruction of the presiding judge,
- " That if, from the evidence, looking to monuments, length
of lines, quantities, actual occupation, &c., the jury should believe that it was more probable that the parties to the mortgage
of 1782 intended to include therein the demanded premises
than otherwise, they should return their verdict for the tenants," - was wrong, and did not in law satisfy the burden of
proof resting upon the tenants.
To Point No 1: -Levy
v. Gadsby, 3 Cranch, 180; McCoy
v. Lightner, 2 Watts, 347;.Welsh v. Dusar, 3 Binn. 337; Dennison v. Wertz, 7 Serg. & Rawle, 372; Roth v. Miller, 15 ib.
100; 4 lb. 279; Fowle v. Bigelow, 10 Mass. 384; Adams v.
Betz, '1 Watts, 425; Poage. v. Bell, 3 Rand. 586; Doe v.
Paine, 4 Hawks, 64; Cockrell v. McQOuin, 4 Monroe, 69;
Hurley v. Morgan, 1 Dev. & Batt. 425; Waterman v. Johnson,
13 Pick. 261; Peyton v. Dixon, Peck, 148; Hart v. Johnson,
6 Ham. 87; Etting v. Bank' of United States, 11 Wheat. 59;
Cherry v. Slade, 3 Murphy, 82; Carroll v. Norwood, 5 Har. &"
Johns. 163; Penington v. Bordley, 4 Har. & Johns. 458.
To Point No. 2, under the first instruction, .we cite the following authorities - Boyd v. Graves, 4 Wheat. 513; Commonwealth v. Pejepscutt Proprietors, 10 Mass. 155; Houston v.
Mathews, 1 Yerger, 116; Wilson v. Hudson, 8 Yerger, 398; 1
U. S. Dig. by Met. & Perkins, 474; Carroll v. Norwood, 5 Har.
& Johns. 163; Smith v. Murphy, 1 Taylor, 303; Peningtoh
v. Bordley, 4 Hat. & Johns. 457 ; Bates v. Tymason, 13 Wendell, 300; Flagg v. Thurston, 13 Pick. 145; Cherry v. Slade,
3 Murphy, 82; Clark v. Munyan, 22 Pick. 410; Slater v. Rawson, 1 Met. 450; Crosby v. Parker, 4 Mass. 110; Houston v.
Pillow, 1 Yerger, 481; Davis v. Smith, 1 Yerger, 496; 1
Greenleaf on Ev. 18, 19, 25, 26; 4 Starkie on Ev. 30; Braman v. Taylor, 2 Adolph. & Ell. 278, 289, 291; Loinson v.
Tremere, 1 Adolph. & Ell. 792; Peletreau v. Jackson, 11 Wendell, 117; 4 Kent's Com. 261, note ; Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 83 ; Shelly v. Wright, Willes, 9 ; Crane v. Morris,- 6 Peters,
598; Stowe v. Wyse, 7 Conn. 214; McDonald v. King, Cox,
432; Henrick v. Johnson, 11 Metc. 26; Willison v. Watkins,
3 Peters, 43; Denn v. Brewer, Cox, 182; Kinsell v. Daggett,
2 Fairfield, 309; Dewey v. Bordwell, 9 Wend. 65; Parker v.
Smith, 17 Mass. 413; Gerrish v. Bearce, 11 Mass. 193; Jackson
v. Hasbrook, 3 Johns. 331 ;' Adams v. Barnes, 17 Mass. 365;
Howard v. Mitchel, 14 Mass. 241; Shelton v. Alcox, 11 Conn.
290; Howe v. Strode, 3 Wilson, 269; Poole v. Fleger, 11 Peters, 209; Root v. Crock, 7 Barr-, 378; Fitch v. Baldwin, 17
Johns. 161; Singleton v. Whitesides, 5 Yerger, 18.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

281

Reed v. Proprietors of Looks and Canals.

And to the point that, as the tenants now hold under and are
privy in estate with all the parties who established the boundary
and dividing line as aforesaid, they are estopped to deny the
line so established by the respective parties, the following :Cox, 431; 6 How. 88; 2 Murphy, 251; 2 Serg. & Rawle, 44.
To point No. 3, under the first instruction, we cite Graham
on New Trial, 278, and cases there cited.
To point No. 4, under the same instruction, 1 Greenleaf on
Evidence, 4; 1 Starkie on Evidence, 14; Jackson on Real Actions, 157, 161.
The. presiding judge
As regards the second instruction.
erred, because the verdict of a former jury introduced by the
tenants was evidence- to control this case and the issue.
We contend that the verdict of a former jury put in by the
tenants, rendered against them in favor of a party under whom
the present demandant claims, is evidence for the demandant in
the present case; as,it appears from the record, also put in by
them, affirmatively, that such verdict was in all respects conformable to law. Such verdict is competent evidence. See.
Filler'v. Milliner, 2 Johns. 181; 4 Com. Dig. 89; Outram v.
Morewood, 3 East, 446.
It is equivalent to an award of arbitrators upon"a submission
by the parties under a rule of court, which concludes the parties, and all claiming under them, by estoppel, as to boundary
at least. Goodridge v. Dustin, 5 Metcalf, 363; Shelton v. Alcox, 11 Conn. 240, and the cases there cited.
That it inures to the present demandant. Carver v. Jackson,
4 Peters, 83 ; Somes v. Skinner, 3 Pick. 52.
As regards the third instruction. The demandant contends
it was wrong, because, if the jury believed the testimony of
James Melvin, then the monuments established by his father
and Dr. Kittredge, with the Williams land, there being no evidence of any others answering the calls in the subsequent
leases, writ, and judgment, were to be regarded by them as the
southern line of the land embraced in the lease, writ, and judgment; and by the solemn recitals and statements made in them
by Kittredge, the admission of the tenants that the Williams
land included the demanded premises, and the subsequent repurchase of Williams by Melvin of the demanded premises,
with the. balance of the Williams lot, which the tenants now
claim, and hold under that purchase, both Kittredge and all
claiming under him were concluded and estopped to say that
Kittredge at the time of these transactions owned any of the
land recited and recognized in said leases, writ, -and judgment as
belonging to Jonathan Williams, and which lies immediately
24*

282

SUPREME

COURT.

Reed v. Proprietors of-L ocks and Canals.

south of,the monuments aforeshid, or that his mortgage originally included it, and if it had, the fact was immaterial.
See cases cited to the first and second points under the first
instruction.
But the tenants, cQ.tend further, that, if the mortgage from
Melvin and-ife does trot include the demanded premises, they
have acquirecdt title thereto by disseizin and the statute of limitations ; "thatheyand those under whom they claim have had
the actual, open, notorious, and exclusive possession of the demanded premises under clair-of title, with such legal privity of
title between the successive occupants as will constitute a bar.
This position the demandaift denies, and contends that the
evidence, -all of -which touching this point appears upon the
record, is entir6 ly insufficient in law to constitute such a disseizin' as to bar. (The counsel then went into an examination
of the'evidence.)
As regards the fourth instruction. The demandant will contend it was'wrong, -- 1. Because the question submitted to the
- jury to decide necessarily involved a construction of the leasesf
which was matter of law, and should have been determined by
the court. 2. Because such an occupation by the tenants, under -their respective'leases from Kittredge for the space -of thirty years, would not necessarily constitute a bar to the demandant's right to recover in this case, even if a sufficient legal
continuity of title in the lessors had been, shown, especially
the moiety derived from Mrs. Melvin, she having been under
coverture. 3. Because there.was no sufficient legal continuity
of title shown to have existed in the lessors, through whom
the tenants claim to derive their title, and because it assumed
the existence of facts which the whole evidence in the case
expressly negatived, was foreign and did not conform to the
evidence in the case, and tended to mislead the jury.
. As regards the fifth instruction. The demandant contends
it was wrong, because the presiding judge assumed to tell the
jury, C,that Kittredge claimed to have a deed which included
the demanded premises, and had turned Melvin out of possession," of which facts there was no evidence, but evidence
showing directly the reverse; and that if there had been any
evidence tending to show these facts, it was for the jury to
pass upon; and that, without the existence of these facts, the
possession of the demanded premises by the lessees under the
lease was not the possession. of Kittredge or his heirs, so as to
constitute them disseizors .except at the election of the true
owner. And that evhn if these facts had been shown to have
existed, they would not have operated disseizin of Mrs. Mel-

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

283

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

vin during her coverture. And because the court left it to the
jury to decide what facts constitute in law a disseizin.
As regards the sixth instruction. The demandant contends
it was wrong, - 1.. Because the question submitted to the decision of the jury involved a construction of the written leases,
which was matter of law, to be determined by the court. 2.
Because the evidence did not tend to show that the same possession, or any possession, possessing the same legal elements,
or having the same legal effect, had been continued by the subsequent lessees, down to the entry of the heirs of Melvin and
wife in 1832, or for any time sufficient to bar, and would, not
constitute in law such a continuity of possession as would bar
the demandant's right to recover. 3. Because the question of
legal continuity of title and possession submitted to the jury
to decide was matter of law, and should have been decided by
the court.
As regards the seventh instruction. The demandant contends
it was wrong,- 1. Because there was no evidence in the case
from which the jury could properly infer the fact that Mrs. Kittredge ever settled with the heirs of Dr. Kittredge for, or paid,
the rents which she had received from the tenant, or that the
tenant repaid the rents to the heirs.
2. Because the possession and claim of Mrs. Kittredge, the
widow, whether under a mistake or not, and express disclaimer
on the part of the heirs, as disclosed by the evidence, which
was uncontradicted, did interrupt and disturb the continuity
of adverse possession, if any existed before.
3. Because the evidence shows that the last written lease
from Kittredge to Cheever, the tenant, terminated in April,
1812, more than a year before Kittredge died, and if Cheever
was tenant at all to Kittredge of the demanded premises, which
the plaintiff denies, it was only a tenancy at will, which terminated by the death of Kittredge in 1813, and Cheever's remaining in possession afterwards, under the claim of the
widow, and paying the rent to her,- the heirs of Kittredge, as
appears, expressly disclaiming any title, - would not, against
their wish and consent, make Cheever tenant at will or sufferance to them, or establish any other relation which should
involuntarily enforce on the innocent heirs the character of
wrong-doers and disseizors, and that the law would not properly regard them as such.
4. Because the whole transaction of the widow's claim and
receipt of the rent, and express disclaimer on the part of the
heirs, as shown by the evidence, was not evidence, to be
weighed by the jury, of a continued occupation by the lessees

284

SUPREME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

for and in behalf of those entitled by law to the rights which
Kittredge claimed when alive.
The demandant will further contend that the instructions
aforesaid were unwarranted by the evidence, and misled the
jury, and that their verdict was against law and .the evidence
in the case, doing great injustice to the plaintiff.
To the second ground of the tenant's defence, the plaintiff
cites in support of his exceptions to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and
seventh 'instrbictions, the following authorities :To the point of submitting the construction of the leases to
the jury. Commonwealth v. Porter, 10 Mete. 263; Graham on
New Trial, 288; McCormick v. Sisson, 7 Cowen, 715; Pangborn v. Bull, 1 Wend. 345; Hill et ux. v. Yates, 8 Taunt. 18"2;
and cases cited to point No. 1, under the first instruction.
What constitutes an actual ouster and disseizin, so that the
statute begins to run ? Mass. Stat. 1786, ch. 13, sec. 4; Mass.
Rev. Stat., ch. 19, sec. 3; 2-Greenleaf on Ev., § 430; Taylor v. Hord, 1 Burr. 60 ; Cowper:, 689 ; Jerritt v. Were, 3 Price,
Ex. R. 575; 4 Kent's Com. (1st ed.) 482, 489; Proprietors
of Kennebec Purchase v. Springer, 4 Mass. 416; Same v.
Laboree, 2 Greenl. 275; Little v. Libby, Ibid. 242; Same v.
Megquire, Ibid. 176; Norcross v. Widgery, 2 Mass. 506; Coburn v. Hollis, 3 Mete. 125; Bates v. Noreross, 14 Pick. 224;
Prescott v. Nevers, 4 Mason, 326; Poignard v. Smith, 6 Pick.
172; Brown v. Gay, 3 Greenl. 126; Gale v. Butler, 3 Murphy, 447; Ross v. Gould, 5 Greenl. 204.; Blood v. Wood, 1
Mete. 528; 1 Roll. 663, L. 27; 6 Com. Dig. 27, Seizin, F. 4;
Stearns on Real Actions, '6; Ricord v. Williams, 7 Wheat.
107; Blunden v. Baugh, Cro. Car. 302; Goodright v. Forrester, 1 Taunt. 578; Doe v. Lynes, 3 Barn. & Cres. 388;
Podger's case, 9 Coke, 104; 5 Coven, 374; 6 Johns. 118.
That Melvin had acquired a life estate in his wife's half,
and the statute would begin to run only as to him. 2 Bl.
Com. 127; Co. Litt. 670. Melvin v. Locks and Canals, 16
Pick. 137; Babb v. Perley, 1 Greenl.'6; 15 Pick. 23; 22 ib.
565; 2 Cow. 439.
There cannot be an actual, ouster of the reversion, so that
the statute will run during the continuanee of the life estate.
Stearns on Real Actions (2d ed.), 323; 1 Preston's Ab. 266;
Doe v. Elliot, 1 Barn & Aid. 86; 2 Kent's Com. (2d ed.) 110;
Tilson v. Thompson, 10 Pick. 357; Stevens v.. Winship, I
Pick. 238; Jackson v. Schoonmaker, 4 Johns. 402; Jackson
v. Johnson, 5 Cowen, 74; Wallingford v. Hearl, 15 Mass.
472 ; Wells v. Prince, 9 Mass. 508; Jackson v. Selle.ck, 8
Johns. 262; Starkie oii Ev. 886, 887; Co. Litt. 39 a, 246 a,
246 b, 350'a, 351 a, 352 a, 356 b.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

285

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

-

That there must be a legal privity of title between successive occupants, so the one legally enters upon his predecessor, and not as a trespasser. Angel on Limitation, 88; Potts v.
Gilbert, 3 C. C. R. 475; Ward v. Bartholomew, 6 Pick. 415;
Jackson v. Leonard, 9 Cowen, 654; Brandt v. Ogden, 1 Johns.
156; Doe v. Hall, Dowl. & Ryl. 38; Sargeant v. Ballard,
9 Pick. 251; Allen v. Holton, 20 Pick. 465; Melvin v. Locks
and Canals, 5 Mete. 115; Wade v. Lindsey, 6 Metc. 407.
That it is error for the court to instruct the jury that they
may make inferences which the evidence does not warrant.
Graham on New Trial, 271; Harris v. Wilson, 7 Wend. 57;
Hollister v. Johnson, 4 ib. 639; Levingsworth v. Fox, 2 Bay,
520.
That on Kittredge's death Cheever's tenancy ceased, and he
became tenant at sufferance. Rising v. Stannard, 17 Mass.
282"; Ellis v. Page, 1 Pick. 42.
That between Cheever and the heirs at law there was no
privity of title. Co. Litt. 170 b; 1 Cruise on Real Property,
288. That upon the heirs abandoning any prior disseizin by
Kittredge became purged. Small v. Procter, 15 Mass. 495.
If the widow entered, she would be a new disseizor, as she
had no right to enter as the successor of her husband. Gibson v. Crehore, 5 Pick. 146, 149; Parker v. Obear, 7 Metcalf,
24. That neither married women, nor minors, nor a non cornpos mentis, can become disseizors by adopting and consenting
to the acts of others. 6 Com. Dig. 271, ,Seizin, F. 4; 1- Roll.
160, 161.
That the deeds, through which the tenants claim to derive
title from the Kittredge heirs, did not include the demanded
premises. 2 Bl. Com. 3S8; 6 Rules for construing Deeds;
Ognell's case, 4 Coke, 50; Shepherd's Touchstone, 248,
249; Roe v. Vernon et al., 5 East, 51; Doe v. Greatherd,
8 East, 91; Gascoyn v. Barber, 3 Atk. 9; Wilson v. Mowitt,
3 Yes. jr. 191; Worthington v. Hylyer et al., 4 Mass. 191;
Barnard v. Martin, 5 N. Hamp. 536; Woodman v. Lane, 7 ib.
241; Allen v. Allen, 14 Maine, 430; Thorndike v. Richards,
13 ib. 430; Field v. Huston, 21 ib. 69; Jameson v. Balmer,
20 ib. 425; Low v. Hampstead, 10 Conn. 23; Benedict v.
Gaylord, 11 ib. 60; Stearns v. Rice, 14 Pick. 411, 412.
That the verdict of the jury was against law and the evidence
in the case. Bryant v. Commonwealth Ins. Co., 13 Pick. 543.
(The argument of the counsel for the tenants, tending to
show from other leases and evidence, that the demanded premises were included in the mortgage, is omitted.)

286

SUPREME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

I. The second position of the tenants is, that if the demanded premises were not-included in the mortgage of Melvin and
his wife, dated -April 27th, 1782, nor in the leases of 1789 and
1793, from Kittredge to Melvin, nor in the judgment of Kittredge against Melvin of 1796, yet the entry of Kittredge in
1796, and his ejectment of Melvin, his wife and family, operated as a disseizin of Melvin and his wife, and that, from the"
continued possession of Kittredge and his lessees, and their occupation and improvement of the demanded premises as a part
of the Cheever farm, and from the fact that every successive
grantee occupied and improved"them in the same manner, they
would pass by the description contained in any of the deeds
from the Kittredge heirs, or any of the subsequent deeds under
which the tenants claim, and the heirs of both Kittredge and'
Melvin and their wives would be barred.
. It is the settled law of Massachusetts, that a marridd woman,
by joining with her husband in a deed, may pass the lands of
which the husband and wife are jointly seized, in her right.
Fowler v. Shearer, 7 Mass. 14.
It is also the.settled law of Massachusetts that the right of a
married woman and her heirs to make an entry upon lands of
which she has been disseized jointly with her husband, is absolutely barred after thirty years' adverse possession. Stat. of
Mass. 1786, ch. 13, sec. 4; Melvin v. Propr. of Locks and Canals, 16 Pick. 161; Same v. Same, 5 Mete. 15; Kittredge v.
Same, 17 Pick. 246.
A married woman may be disseized at the same time with
her husband. Podger's case, 9 Coke, 104; Runnington on
Ejectment, 60; Adams on Ejectment, 48, 49, note; Jackson on
Real Actions, 25; Polyblank v. Hawkins, 1 Dougl. 329; Registrum Brevium, 197; Rastell's Entries, 318; Co. Litt. 30 a;
2 Inst. 342; Langdon v. Potter, 3 Mass. 219; Rolle's Abr., Assize, E. 0. 13.
With respect to the Williams mortgage, and the testimony
of James Melvin, as mentioned in the third instruction, the instruction of the judge was right, if it was not too favorable to
the demandant,-because Williams's mortgage was subsequent
to Kittredge's, and could not be set up against it, if it included
a portion of the same lands, as the tenants contend; and the
testimony of James Melvin as to the southern boundary is totally inconsistent with the written documents made by the parties themselves at the time. This relates to the first and third
instruction.
As to the second instruction, that the verdict of a former jury in the State court was not evidence to control this case, the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

287

Reed-v, Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

tenants contend it was correct, because the judgment of the
State court which contained this verdict was in favor- of the.
tenants, notwithstanding this verdict.
In support of the fourth, fifth, and sixth instructions, the tenants will-take the positions and rely upon the authorities cited
before, under the second general head of this abstract, to which.
the court are referred.
As to the seventh instruction, the tenants make the following points: - That by the death of Kittredge, in 1813, the
land descended to his heirs at law; that he died seized, the possession being in his tenant, Cheever; that Cheever continued
in possession till after the death of Mrs. Kittredge, in 1818;
that there was no evidence that Mrs. Kittredge .was ever on the
land after the death of her husband; that she was entitled to a
life estate in one third part of the farm, and was, therefore, legally entitled to one third part of the rents; that she cannot be
considered as an abator, because an abatement is an entry by a
stranger, nor as a disseizor, because she did no act which can
be construed as a disseizin of the heirs; that there was no evidence of any disclaimer of theheirs, nor any evidence of an adverse possession on the part of Mrs. Kittredge, but that the legal seizin remained in the heirs as it descended from their father. 5 Mete. 23-35.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was demandant below in a writ of entry, in which he claimed about eight acres of land in the city
of Lowell.
The demandant claimed under Benjamin Melvin, who, it is
admitted, was seized of the land in dispute, as part of a larger
tract, in 1782. One undivided moiety of this tract Melvin held
in right of his wife, and the other in his own right.
The tenants claimed under a mortgage given by Benjamin
Melvin and wife to Jacob Kittredge, on the 27th day of April,
1782. In 1789, Kittredge entered under his mortgage, and
leased the premises to Melvin. In 1796, Kittredge recovered
the possession from Melvin on an action of ejectment, and had
possession delivered to him by writ of hAberefacias.
From that time Kittredge and those claiming under him,
now represented by the tenants or defendants in this action,
claim to have had the peaceable possession of the demanded
premises; and there is no evidence of any occupation by Melvin or his heirs, or claim thereto, till 1832, although they lived
in the immediate neighbourhood. On the trial below, the ten.
ants relied on two grounds of defence, both of which they claim
to have established by the evidence: -

SUPREME COURT.
:Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

1. That the denlanded premises were included in the.mortgage given by Melvin and wife to Kittredge, in 1782.
2. That even if the land in controversy was not embraced
within the deed of mortgage, yet that the entry of Kittredge
in 1796, and the ouster of Melvin and wife, operated as a disseizin, and that by the uninterrupted and adverse possession
of the tenants, and those under whom they claim,-for more than
thirty years before the entry of demandant, or those under
whom he claims, his right of entry was barred by the statute
of Massachusetts of 1786, ch. 13, sec. 4; which limits the
right of any person under no disability to make an entry into
lands, &c., to twenty years next after his right or title first descended or accrued, with a saving to femes covert, &c., of a right
to make such entry at any time within ten years after the expiration of said twenty years, and not afterwards.
The court gave "full instructions to the jury" on the principles of law applicable to the complicated facts and somewhat
contradictory testimony submitted to them on the trial; to certain portions of which the demandant's counsel excepted, and
has here assigned as error.
We shall proceed to examine them in their order.
I. ",That if the jury believed from the evidence, looking to
the monuments, length of lines, and quantities, actual occupation, &c., that it was more probable the parties to the mortgage
of 1782 intended to include therein the demanded premises
than otherwise, they should return their verdict for the tenants."
It is objected to this instruction, that it submits the construction of the deed to the jury; and pernits them to conjecture
the probable intention of the parties from facts and circumstances-not contained in the deed. Whereas the intention of the
parties is to be found in their -deed alone, which it is the duty
of the court to construe.
Taking this sentence of the charge as it stands, without reference to the facts of the case, it may be admitted that it affords some color to this objection. But when we look to the
issue submitted to the jury, and the testimony exhibited by the
record, the exception will be seen to be without foundation.
It is true, that it was the duty of the court to give a construction to the deed in question, so far as the intention of the
parties could be elicited therefrom, and we are bound, to presume that, in the "full instructions"' which the record states
were " given to the jury," and not contained in the -bill, because no objection was made to them, the court performed that
duty correctly. But after all this is done, it is still a question

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

of fact to be discovered from evidence dehors the deed, whether the lines, monuments, and boundaries called for iriklude the
premises in controversy or not. A deed may be vague, ambiguous, and uncertain in its description of boundary; and even
when it carefully sets forth the lines and monuments, disputes
often occur as to where those lines and monuments are situated
on the ground; and it necessarily becomes a fact for the jury
to decide, whether the land in controversy is included therein,
or, in other words, was intended by the partie§ so to be.
The mortgage referred to by the court describes the land
as'follows :- " A certain tract or parcel of land lying and be-i
ing in Chelmsford, on Ch~lmsford Neck, so called, in said
county of Middlesex, containing by estimation one hundred
acres, be the same more or less, lying altogether in one piece
without any division, except only one county bridle-road, Which
runs through the northerly part of said farm or tract of land,
and being a part of the real estate of Mr. Thomfas Fletcher, late
of said Chelmsford, deceased."
The description of the land conveyed by this deed is of the
most vague and indefinite character; it sets forth no monuments
to indicate the line which divides it from the remainder of the
tract owned by the mortgagor, and not intended to be included
in the deed.
Hence, the demandant, in order to show what land was intended by the parties to be included, produced witnesses to
prove the existence in former times of another "bridle road,"
which he contended was the southern boundary of the mortgaged land, because a hundred acres lay north-of this road,
and the land was described as intersected but by "one county
bridle-road," which ran through the northerly part of the farm.
He produced a witness, also, to prove that Kittredge, the grantee, had pointed out a certain monument near this road as marking his boundary.
The tenants contended that the deed was uncertain as to
quantity, and did not call for the road as its southern boundary.
They also gave evidence to show the actual practical location
by the parties of the land included in the mortgage, as early as
1789, which included the eight acres in controversy. For this
purpose they produced the leases from Kittredge to Melvin, the
mortgagor, dated in 1789 and 1793, and, subsequently to the
other tenants of Kittredge, setting forth courses and distances
which included the demanded premises, as they contended, and
proved by witnesses a possession held accordingly since 1796.
It cannot be doubted, that, where a deed is indefinite, uhceetain, or ambiguous in the description of the boundaries of the
25
VOL. v111.

290

SUPREME

COURT.

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

land conveyed, the construction given by the parties themselves, as shown by their a6ts and admissions, is deemed to be
the true one, unless the contrary be clearly shown. The difficulty in the application of the descriptive portion of a deed to
external objects, usually arises from what is called a latent ambiguity, which has its origin in parol testimony, and must necessarily be solved in 'the same way. It therefore becomes a
question to be decided by a jury, what was the intention of the
parties to the deed.
From this view of the case, as exhibited by the record, it
clearly appears that the question, whether the demanded premises were included within the limits of the mortgage, or intended so to be, was submitted by the parties, and by the nature of
the case, to the jury; and that, in order to a correct decision of
the issue, the jury should be instructed to weigh the testimony
as to the "monuments, length of lines, and quantiti6s, actual
occupation, &c.," and decide according to the weight of evidence. And such is the meaning, and no more, of the language
of the court now under consideration. We can perceive no
error in it.
II. The second matter of exception is to the instruction, "That the verdict of a former jury, introduced by the tenants,
was not evidence to control this case or the issue."
On the trial, the tenants gave in evidence the record of a
former writ of entry, brought by Benjamin Melvin, Jr., against
them in 1833, for this same land, on which a judgment was
rendered in favor of the tenants. In the trial of that case, the
question had been submitted to the jury "1whether. the demanded premises were intended by the parties to be conveyed
by the deed of mortgage," and the verdict was in favor of demandant; the court, nevertheless, on other points reserved,
gave judgment for the tenants.
We understand the principle asserted by the court in this instruction to be, that this verdict in favor of Melvin was not
conclusive upon the defendants in this suit, and did not operate
by way of estoppel as to the facts stated therein.
The correctness of this instruction cannot be questioned.
For, assuming that a verdictand judgment in a writ of entry
sur disseizin to be conclusive between parties and privies in
Massachusetts, and that they operate by way of estoppel, yet
the record in this case would have no such effect; -1st. Because it was neither pleaded nor giveii in evidence by the demandant for that purpose. 2d. All estoppels are mutual; the
demandant was not party to the suit, nor privy except as to one
fourteenth of the premises, and would not therefore have been

JANUARY TERM, 1'50.

291

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

estopped as to the remainder; so, neither could the tenants.
3d. There was no judgment of the court upon the verdict,
which alone could give it the force or effect of res judicata.
III. The third exception is to. an instruction in favor of the
demandant, - and ought not -to have been taken, or urged
here.
IV. The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh instructions excepted to have reference to the statute of limitations, and may be
considered together. They are as follows: "4th: That if the tenants, under their respective leases from
Kittredge, occupied and cultivated to the Tyler line, in such a
manner as the owners of such land would ordinarily occupy
andcultivate, and such an occupation had continued for the
period of thirty years, it would constitute such an adverse possession as would bar the demandant's right to recover.
" 5th. That the possession of the premises by said lessees,
under the lease, was the possession of Kittredge, the lessor, and
his heirs, he claiming to have a deed which included them,
and having turned Melvin out of possession; if it was of such
a character as amounted to a disseizin, it would in law inure to
the benefit of Kittredge and his heirs, and would be the disseizin and adverse possession of the lessor.
"6th. That if the possession of Cheever and Thissell, in
1796, under Kittredge, included the demanded premises, and
the same possession had been continued by the subsequent
lessees, as the evidence tended to show it had been, down to
the entry of the heirs of Melvin and wife, in 1832, it constituted in law such a. continuity of possession as would bar the
demandant's right to recover.
"7th. That there was evidence, not contradicted, of a claim
to the premises by Mrs. Kittredge, after the death of her husband, and of rents being paid to her; but if Mrs. Kittredge,
after the death of her husband, forgetting she had signed the
original deed, claimed said premises, and received the rent
therefor by mistake, till the heirs or their guardians disccvered
she had signed the deed, and the rents were then settled with
them, the continuity of adverse possession would not thereby
be disturbed; but there was no evidence of those rents which
were paid t6 Mrs. Kittredge going to the heirs, or being repaid
to them, except what is to be inferred from her will, and the
tenants recognizing the title of the heirs of Kittredge after the
widow's death, and taking deeds of them. That, -onthe death
of Kittredge, his rights descended to his heirs at law, some of
whom were minors ; that they became entitled to them, and
the rents and profits paid by the lessees ; that if the tenants,

292

SUP.REME COURT.
Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

who held leases from Jacob Kittredge, and entered under them,
remained in possession after his death, they should properly in
law be regarded as tenants holding at will, or by sufferance of
or under his heirs; and if the tenants saw fit, for any part of
the time, to pay rent to Mrs. Kittredge, the mother, or did it
by mistake, and afterwards paid it to the heirs, or their guardians, and took deeds from them, such payments to her ought
not to impair the rights of the heirs, or those claiming under
them;- but the whole transaction was evidence to be weighed
by the jury of a continued occupation by the lessees, for and in
behalf of those entitled in law to the rights which Kittredge•
claimed when alive.'
We can perceive no error in these instructions, when taken in
connection with the evidence exhibited by the record.
It Cannot be denied, that an adverse possession may be kept
up without a personal residence where the disseizor gives leases
to tenants, puts them in possession, and receives the rents,
claiming the land as his own.
The law is also well settled by the courts of Massachisetts,
that the entry of a married woman is badrred by the statute of
limitations of that State, after thirty years, notwithstanding her
coverture. Also that by-the marriage the husband and wife
become jointly seized of her real estate ih her right, and their
title must be so stated in pleading; afid therefore, if a
strangdr enters and ousts them, it is a disseizin of both, and a
right of 'entry immediately accrues to .both or either of them.
(See Melvin v. Proprietors, &c., 16 Pick.- 161 ; also 5 Metcalf,
15 ; and cases there cited).
Nor can we discove.r any thing in the evidence in this case,
that could entitle the-. demandant to maintain that the continuity of the adverse possession" has been broken by the death of
Kittredge, and the fact that the widow may have received the
withotit objection fbr some time after his death.
rents
.There
was no abatefhent by a stranger after the death
of
Kittredge, nor entry or disseizin of his heirs by the widow.
a guardian by nurture rhakes a lease by indenture to
one wvho is already in under title of the infant, rendering rent
to the guardian, which is paid accordingly, this is no .disseizin ; for there is no actual ouster consequent on such demise,
and the rent paid to the guardian must be accounted for to the
infant." (Roll. Abr. 659 ; Bac. Abr., tit. Disseizin, A.)
So if- the mother, by mistake of her, rights, and without objection, receives the rents jointly due to herself and children;
this cbnstitntes no ouster of them, she being liable to account
to them.

JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

293

Menards Heirs v. Massey.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore 'dffirmed,
with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to.be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United'States for the District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. O4 consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit'Court in this

cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

.AIXDPE

MENAD'S.4EIRs, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. SAMUEL
MASSEY.

In the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284, this court decided by implication, and now dedes expressly, that a general and unlocated concession, granted
of
a private
survey ntgovernor
priorwias
to recognized
the transfer
by
the made
Spanish
which
after
the transfer
byoftheLouisiana,
commissioners
appointed
der the act of 1805, before whom the claim was filed, was so designated and lothe act of 1811, and consequently
as to
be reserved
fromcould
sale be
bylocated
virtue of
cated
no New
Madrid
certificate
upon it.
lands, was impliedly reprivate
upon
the public
The
act ofby1804,
forbidding
pealed
the net
of 1805,
which surveys
required
claimants
to file asa plat. The act of
1806 authorized
the
commissioners
to direct
such surveys
they might deem
necessary, which gave them, thereby, the power to adopt any
prior and private
surveys which they might deem just and proper, for the purpose of designation
and
location.
The
effect
of such private surveys was not to sever the land from the public domain,
but merely to indicate the tract which Congress was toact upon at
a subsequent
period,
in case
thought proper
to confirm
the claim.
The
act of
1836 itconfirmed
the claims
of assignees
who had prosecuted them as
claimantsa, awdcdid not intend to vest the title in the assignor, the original holder.
This court has so eideed in former cases.
Thhecof
ri
act of 1836 is equally effectual in favor of the claimant,
whether the commissioners recommended that the claim should be confirmed generally, or confirmed "according to the survey. The only difference is, that in the
latter ease the survey on file is probably conclusive upon the government, and errors cannot be corrected, whilst in the former case they may be.
The second section of the act of 1836 makes no provision for
of an
unlocated claim confirmed on the report of the commissioners, aandre-location
further legislation will be necessary for such cases.
The cases of Mackay v. Dillon, 4 Howard, 421, Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard,
449, andJourdan v. Barrett, 4 howard, 169, examined and explained.
the United States succeeded to all the powers ot the
Upon
the transfer ofLouisiana,
Intendant-Generals,
and could give or withhold the completion of all imperfect
of
to exercise
power with
discretion,
titles
at
their
pleasure.
In
order
Commissioners were established in
order to this
enlighten
the jdgment
of Boards
Congress,
and special courts were organized in which claimants might prosecute their claims.
:But in all the legislation upon the subject, the claimants were aever considered as
possessing a legal titlc, until the final assent of Congress was expressed in some
mode or other to that effect.
25 *

