10-

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

ord from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, affirmed.
THE UNITED STATES V. CARR AND PECK, CLAI1IANTS OF TEN
&C.,

BOXES,

OF RAISINS.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

HARRIET V. LADD, 3Y HER NEXT FRIEND, MONTGOxIERY D. CORSE,
COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. JosErn: B. LADD, JOHN H.
LADD, THE FARiErrs' BANK OF 'ALEXANDRIA,
JOHN HOOFF, BENONI WHEAT, AND JOHN J. WHEAT, THE TWO LAST TRADING UNDER
THE FIRM OF BENONI WHEAT AND SON, DEFENDANTS.

Where a married woman has power, under a marriage settlement, to dispose of
property settled upon her, by the execution of a power of appointment for that
purpose, and alleges afterwvards that she executed the power under undue
marital influence and through fraud practised upon her, but alleges no specific
mode or act by which this undue marital if~luence was exerted, and the facts disclosed in the testimony go very far to contradict the allegation, the charge cannot
be sustained.
Every feme covert is presumed, under such a settlement, to be, to some extent, a
free agent.
Where the marriage settlement recited that the woman was possessed of a considerable real and personal estate, which it was agreed should be settled to her sole
and separate use with power to dispose of the same by appointment or devise, and
then directed that the trustee should permit her to have, receive, take, and enjoy all
the interest, rents, and profits of the property to her own use, or to that of such persons as she might from time to time appoint during the coverture, or to such persons as she, by her last will and testament, might devise or will the same to, and
in default of such appointment or devise, then the estate and premises aforesaid
to go to those who might be entitled thereto by legal distribution, - this deed enabled her to convey the whole fee, under the power, and not merely the annual
interest, rents, and profits.
Where the marriage settlement gave her the power of appointment to the use of
such persons as she might from time to time appoint, during the coverture, by any
writing or writings under her hand and seal, attested by three credible witnesses,
and she executed a deed which recited that the parties had thereunto set their
hands and seals, and which the witnesses attested as having been seated and delivered, this was a sufficient execution of the power, although the witnesses did
not attest the fact df her signing it.
The authorities upon this point examined.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

11

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

TiHs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia and County of Alexandria, sitting as a court of equity.
The facts of the case were these.
On the 20th of October, 1824, a marriage being about to
take place between Joseph B. Ladd and Harriet V. Nicoll,
both of the town of Alexandria, the following marriage settlement was executed by those parties.
"This indenture tripartite, made this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and twentyfour, between Joseph B. Ladd, of the town of Alexandria, of
the first part, Harriet V. Nicoll, of the town aforesaid, of the
second part, and John H. Ladd, of the town aforesaid, of the
third part. Whereas, a marriage is shortly to be had and
solemnized, between the said Joseph B. Ladd and Harriet V.
Nicoll; and whereas, .the said Harriet V. Nicoll is now possessed of a considerable real and personal estate, which it
has been agreed between her and the said Joseph B. Ladd
should be settled to her sole and separate use, with power to
dispose of the same, by appointment or devise; and whereas,
the said Joseph B. Ladd has agreed to add to the property of
the said Harriet V. Nicoll one hundred and sixty-two shares
of the Alexandria and Washington Turnpike Company, and
the premises hereinafter described, now occupied by Dr. Vowell, which is likewise to be settled in manner aforesaid, with
this understanding, that in case the said Harriet V. Nicoll
should, after the intended marriage had, happen to survive
the said Joseph B. Ladd, she shall not have or claim any
part of the real or personal estate whereof the said Joseph B.
Ladd should die seized or possessed, or entitled- to, at any time
during the coverture between them, by virtue of her dower,
or title of dower, at common law, or by virtue of her being
administratix, or entitled to the administration of the goods
and chattels, rights and credits, of the said Joseph B. Ladd,
or in any other manner whatever. Now, this indenture witnesseth, that in pursuance of the agreement aforesaid, and of the
sum of five dollars to him in hand paid at and before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the said Joseph B. Ladd hath given, granted,
bargained, and sold, and by these presents doth give, grant, bargain, sell, and contey, unto the said John H. Ladd, his heirs
and assigns for ever, a house and lot situated upon the north
side of King Street, and to the westward of Pitt Street, in the
said town of Alexandria, and bounded as follows, to wit: - Beginning upon King Street, four feet to the eastward of the cen-

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

tre of the square formed by Pitt and St. Asaph Streets, and running thence eastwardly with King Street, and bounding thereon
twenty-three feet nine inches, be the same more or less; thence
northwardly with a line parallel to Pitt and St. Asaph Streets,
bne hundred and nineteen feet; thence westwardly and parallel to King Street, the length of the first line; thence southwardly with a straight line to the beginning;- also one hundred
and sixty-two shares of Alexandria and Washington Turnpike
Company; and the said Harriet V. Nico]l, in consideration of
the agreement aforesaid, and of the sum of five dollars to her
in hand paid, at and before the sealing and delivery of these
presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath
granted, bargained, sold, and conveyed, and by these presents
doth grant, bargain, sell, and convey, unto the said John H.
Ladd, his heirs and assigns for ever, the following property, to
wit: -All
that property situated on the east side of Union
Street, long known by the name of Conway's Wharf, with the
warehouses, dwelling-houses, docks, and appurtenances thereto belonging, as it was devised by the late Richard Conway
to Joseph Conway, deceased, from whom it descended to the
said Harriet V. Nicoll;- also, one lot of ground on the west
side of Union Street, purchased by the said Joseph Conway
of Thomas Conway, by indenture, now of record, in the
county of Alexandria; also, all right, title, interest, claim, or
demand of the said Harriet V. Nicoll, under the will of her
late husband, William H. Nicoll, of Northumberland county,
Virginia, or that may have descended to her from her father,
Joseph Conway, deceased, or from her mother, or from any
other person. To have and to' hold all and singular the property hereby conveyed unto him, the said John H. Ladd, his
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, to his and their
only use for ever; upon such trusts, and for such uses, intents, and purposes, as are hereinafter mentioned; that -is to
say, in trust, for the use of the respective parties who have
conveyed the same until the solemnization of the intended
marriage, and from and after its solemnization, then upon the
trust that-the said John H..Ladd, his heirs, executors, and administrators, shall and do permit the said Harriet V. Nicoll,
the intended wife, to have, receive, take, and enjoy, all the
interest, rents, and profits of the property hereby conveyed
to and for her own use and benefit, or to the use of such person or persons, and in such parts and proportions, as she, the
said Harriet V. Nicoll, shall appoint from time to time, during
the coverture, by any writing or writings under her hand and
seal, attested by three credible witnesses, or to such person or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

13

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

persons as she, by her last will and testament in writing, to be
by her signed, sealed, published, and declared, in the presence
of the like number of witnesses, may devise or will the same
to; and in default of such appointment or devise, then the estate and premises aforesaid to go to those who may be entitled
thereto, by legal distribution; it being the intent of the parties that none of the property hereby conveyed shall be at the
disposal of, or subject to, the control, debts, or engagements
of the said Joseph B. Ladd.
"In testimony whereof, the said parties have hereunto set
their hands and seals, the day and year first before written.
"Josnr'P

B. LADD,

[SEAL.]

HARRIET V. NICOLL, [SEAL.][SEAL.]"
JoHN H. LAnD.

On the 1st of November, 1824, Joseph B. Ladd, in conformity with the above agreement, transferred to John H. Ladd, the
trustee, one hundred and sixty-three shares in the Washington
and Alekandria Turnpike Company, being one share more
than he had stipulated to transfer.
On the 2d of January, 1827, Harriet V. Ladd, by writing
under her hand and seal, executed in the presence of three witnesses, and reciting that it was in pursuance and in execution
of the power reserved to her in her-marriage settlement, directed the trustee to transfer and assign to John Hooff, cashier
of the Farmers' Bank of Alexandria, one hundred and sixty-two
shares of the aforesaid turnpike company, "for ever thereafter
to be and inure to the benefit of the said John Hooff."
On the same day, the trustee made the transfer, as directed.
In October,- 1827, the following proceedings took place at
the Farmers' Bank of Alexandria, and appear upon the minutes
of the' Directors.
"It is proposed to lend Joseph B. Ladd upon his note, indorsed by John H. Ladd, the sum of $ T,000, provided the
board shall be satisfied that the real security he may offer shall
be good security for that sum; decided in the affirmative."
" Oct. 9, 1827.- The loan provisionally granted to Joseph
B. Ladd on the 1st instant, being under consideration, a deed of
trust to John Hooff, trustee, signed by John H. Ladd and Harriet V. Ladd, and dated the 9th day of October, 1827, contain-,
ing a description of the property intended to be conveyed as collateral security for the said loan, having been laid before the
board, read, and considered, and upon the question, Shall the
said property be deemed good security for the said loan of
$7,000? the vote was in the affirmative.
voL. vIIr.

2

14

SUPREME

COURT.

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

"Resolved, therefore, that the loan of $ 7,000 be made to the
said Joseph B. Ladd, upon the conditions contained in the
said deed ; and upon the further consideration, that the said
Joseph B. Ladd cause the property contained in the deed
to be regularly insured, and the policies assigned over to the
trustee, John Hooff; upon this resolution John C. Vowell,
Reuben Johnston, John H. Ladd, and Samuel Messersmith,
voted in the affirmative; in the negative, Rd. M. Scott."
The deed referred to in the above proceedings, reciting the
marriage settlement, conveyed to Hooff all that part of the
wharf called Conway's Wharf, lying on the east side of Union
Street, in. the said town. of Alexandria, as the same was devised
by the late Richard Conway to the said Joseph Conway, the
father of the said Harriet, with all buildings, &c., being the
property described in, and conveyed by, the marriage settlerpent, and then proceeded thus: - "And whereas the Farmers'
Bank of Alexandria has agreed to loan to the said Joseph B.
Ladd the sum of seven thousand dollars, or such part of that
sum as he may require, on his notes, to be indorsed by the -said
John H. Ladd, and discounted at said bank, and to be renewed
from time to time, under the indorsement of the said John H.
Ladd, or of such other person or persons as the board of directors of said bank may from time to time approve of, according
to the usages of said bank, on the following terms and conditions: that is to say, that the said loans and discounts, or interest to become due thereon, shall be secured by an effectual
lien on the premises before described; that on the said notes
being regularly renewed, and kept up, and on the said interest
or discounts being punctually paid on such renewals, and on
one thousand dollars of the principal being paid within two years
from the date hereof, the said Joseph B. Ladd-shall be allowed
the further term of one year, that is to say, three years from
the date hereof, for the payment of the residue of said loan;
and if within the said third year the said Joseph B. Ladd, his
executors or administrators, shall pay to the said bank the further sum of two thousand dollars, and shall pay and discharge
the interest or discounts on the said notes as they shall be renewed, then that the time of the payment of the residue of said
loan shall be extended one year further, that is to say, for the
term. of four years from the date hereof, he, the said Joseph,
his executors or administrators, paying the interest or discounts
on the said notes as they shall be renewed during the said
fourth year; and if, within the said fourth year, the said Joseph
shall pay the further sum of two thousand dollars of the principal of said debt, then that the time of the payment .of the resi-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

15

Ladd v. I add et al.

due of the said debt shall be extended one year further, that is
to say, for the term of five years from the date hereof; the said
Joseph, his executors or administrators, paying the discount or
interest on the notes offered for renewal as the same shall be
discounted."
The deed then directed, that, if the payments mentioned
above were not made, Hooff was to sell the property, "provided, however,, that the same shall produce enough to pay and
satisfy the whole amount of said loan which shall not be paid,
with all discounts and interest which shall be due thereon, and
all reasonable charges and expenses of sale." It contained also
this important declaration and condition: -" And the said Harriet V. Ladd, in execution of the power of appointment to her
reserved as aforesaid, does hereby direct and appoint the premises
herein described to be held by the said John Hooff and his
heirs on the uses and for the purposes and trusts before recited."
This deed was signed and sealed by the parties thereto, with
a memorandum underwritten in these words, in the usual
place of attestation: -" Sealed and delivered in presence of
George C. Kring, John McCobb, Matthias Snyder, Charles W.
Muncaster, Jonathan Field," - and bore the certificate of the
clerk that it was proved as to John H. and Harriet V.Ladd, by
three of the witnesses, acknowledged by the trustee, Hooff, and
ordered to be recorded.
On the 13th of April, 1829, Hooff re-transferred to John H.
Ladd, the trustee, the one hundred and sixty-two shares of
turnpike stock, which the trustee had transferred to him on the
2d of January, 1827.
On the 30th of. April, 1829, Harriet V. Ladd 'directed the
trustee to transfer these shares to Sarah Ladd, which was accordingly done on the same day.
On the 21st of November, 1839, Sarah Ladd transferred
eighty shares of this stock to the bank, and on the 6th of December following, the remaining eighty-two shares to Sarah
Easton Ladd.
On the 16th of December, 1839, the following proceedings
took place at the bank.
" Farmers'Bank of Alexandria, December 16th, 1839.,.
"The president and cashier, having made arrangements for
further security on the debt of Joseph B. Ladd to this bank,
having laid the same before the board, it is ordered to be recorded as follows, viz. :-The Farmers' Bank of Alexandria having this day received from Mrs. Sarah Ladd a transfer of eighty

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

shares of stock in the Washington and Alexandria Turnpike
Company, as further security for the payment of Jos. B. Ladd's
note, amount six thousand dollars, due the said bank and unpaid, with an understanding the stock is -not to be sold in less
than two years from this date, and then to be applied towards
the payment of said note of six thousand dollars, but the said
Mrs. Sarah Ladd may direct the payment of the proceeds of
said stock at any time previous to the expiration of said term
of two years at her pleasure, and then-to be applied towards
the payment of said note of Joseph B. Ladd, amount six thousand dollars.
(Signed,)
JOHN C. VOWELL, President."
"Alexandria, November 21, 1839.
"Amended by introducing a clause that the bank shall not
proceed against the property in deed of trust, Conway's Wharf,
until two years from this date, and then stock to be sold, without Mrs. Sarah Ladd should prefer to pay for the stock at the
pai value.
"A copy.
JOHN HooFF, Cashier."
On the 27th of July, 1842, Hooff advertised the real property conveyed to him for sale, and sold it on the 7th of September, for $4,175, to Benoni Wheat and John J. Wheat.
Two days before the sale, Hooff by writing consulted Mrs.
Ladd respecting the terms of sale, and the parcels in which the
property should be sold, and received from her the writing returned indorsed in these words: -" I agree to the above arrangement. - Harriet- V. Ladd."
In February, 1843, Harriet V. Ladd, by her next friend,
Montgomery D. Corse, filed her bill in the Circuit Court against
her husband, the trustee, the bank, Hooff, and the Wheats.
The bill, after meeting the marriage settlement and the marriage, alleges that under said contract she had no power to
convey or dispose of the property settled on her by way of anticipation or otherwise. Nor had she power to appoint the use
of the income rents, &c., to any person, for the debts or benefit
of her said husband.
That she was induced by the marital influence of her husband, and %vith the knowledge and connivance "of'the said
bank, to sign a deed of trust to John Hooff, to secure a debt of
her husband indorsed by her trustee, which deed is witnessed by
four persons in manner and form as shown by the exhibit of it.
That no power is given to the trustee to convey the property, nor could she authorize him, and that said deed of trust is

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

17

Ladd v. Ladd et aL

null and void, and was obtained by marital influence and coercion, while living with her husband, and her husband did not
join in said deed, nor was she separately examined to ascertain
if she freely executed it, &c., nor was she authorized to execute said deed, without all the forms were complied with.
That she is falsely made in said deed to say that she had
previously appointed under her power, when in fact she never
had, and.that her husband and trustee were acting for their
own personal interest.
That said Hooff and said bank have caused the wharf lot
to be sold to Benoni Wheat, who holds the same in possession
as his property, and refuses to let your oratrix have the same.
That the said bank holds the shares of turnpike stock included in the settlement, as security for the money loaned to
her husband.
That she was induced by marital influence to execute an instrument dated 30th April, 1S29, as will be shown, directing
her trustee to transfer 162 shares of turnpike stock to Mrs.
Sarah Ladd, to secure $ 4,000 loaned by her (as guardian to
Sarah Easton Ladd) to your orator's husband, and when the
same should be paid to be re-transferred to the use of your
orator.
That a settlement having taken place by which Sarah Easton Ladd received 82 shares in full of her claim, the remaining
80 shares *ere on the 21st of November, 1839, transferred by
Sarah Ladd to said bank, without any authority, and they were
then the property of your oratrix, and not of Sarah Ladd, as
the bank well knew.
That all the said writings, transfers, and doings in the premises were illegal, and in fraud of her rights secured to her by
said marriage contract ; - that all the aforesaid actings and doings in the premises, and every act and doing connected with
the same, by the aforesaid Joseph B. Ladd, John H. Ladd, John
Hooff, Benoni Wheat, and the said Farmers' Bank of Alexandria, were in violation of her rights, and done to defraud her of
that property and those rights secured to her or intended so to
be by the marriage contract atoresaid.
That the said deed to Hooff, and the pretended assignment
of the turnpike stock, ought to be declared null and void as to
your oratrix, and she ought to be restored to her property and
rights, and quieted against all said parties, and that the dividends on said shares received by said bank for at least four
years ought to be paid to her.
The bill then states the desertion of complainant by her
husband.

18

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd u. Ladd et al.

That the part of the property sold has not paid the debt, and
it will take the residue of her property to pay it. It prays that
the deed of indenture -may be surrendered and cancelled; and
that complainant may be quieted against all the defendants in
her enjoyment of her said property; that the bank may assign
the shares of turnpike stock, or in default pay the value thereof
and all dividends received thereon; and it concludes with a
prayer for general relief.
In June and July, 1843, Hooff, the Wheats, and the bank
filed their answers. The husband and trustee did not answer
the bill. This answer denied the complinant's construction of
the marriage settlement, insisted upon the competency and regularity of the app6intment, and of all the proceedings had in
pursuance thereof, averred that the property. could be applied to
the payment of the debt due to the bank with her consent;
that she was quoad the property a feme sole; that the loan
was made to Joseph B. Ladd on his notes, indorsed by the
trustee, and upon the security of the deed of trust ; that the
greater part of the money was expended upon the, improvement of the property which belonged to her; that the complainant was privy and assented to the sale, and set forth the
facts connected with the. transfer of the turnpike stock, and
denied all fraud or undue influence in bringing about any of
the transactions between the parties.
To all these several answers there was a general replication
and issue; and a commission was issued to take testimony, under which the facts above stated, and those hereinafter adverted to, were established in proof..
Qn the 6th of October, 1845, the cause came on for hearing,
when the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, with costs. The
complainant appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. May and Mr. Brent, for the
appellant, and Mr. PrancisL. Smith and Mr. Jones, for the
appellees.
The points raised by the counsel respectively are thus stated
upon their briefs.
For the appellant.
lst. What is the construction and effect of the marriage settlement, and what powers did it confer or restrain ?
2d. Have its terms and power been duly executed, so as to
make a valid appointment or execution thereof?
3d. Will equity aid the defective execution ?
Ath. Has the complainant by her own acts precluded herself
from the relief prayed, in respect to the property withheld from
her?

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

19

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

5th. Has she not a clear right to the shares of turnpike
stock ?
6th. Is she not entitled to be quieted in the unsold property,
at least to have the deed as to that cancelled?
1st Question. -We
contend that the marriage settlement
gave her no sweeping power to alienate the property, but only
from time to time during coverture to appoint the uses of the
income, &c.
In support of this we cannot do better than review Kent's
learned opinion, in 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 87 (see pp. 97, 100, 102104, 112, and in pages 113 and 114); he concludes that she can
only convey as authorized in marriage settlement, and that a
power over. the income, &c., does not authorize a deed of the
whole by anticipation. See on this 2 Kent's Corn. 166, note.
2d Question. - But conceding that she had power to sell
and dispose, has she exercised it according to the formula prescribed ?
Her marriage settlement requires her appointment to be by
-an instrument, under hand and seal, attested by three credible
witnesses.
The appointment .ielied on by our adversaries as to the real
estate is the deed to 'Hooff.
This deed: is defective 1st. That it is attested by but two witnesses as to Mrs. Ladd.
2d. That the attesting clause only attests the sealing and
delivering.
And, first, Mrs. Ladd's execution required three witnesses.
See Hopkins v. Myall, 2 Russ. & Mylne, 86.; 1 ib. 535.
Next, the attesting clause is defective. See 1 Roper, pt. 2,
1946, 1947; Waterman v. Smith, 9 Simons, 629; 3 Maule &
Selwyn, 512.
This last authority equally destroys the execution of the
transfer of the turnpike stock, whether you refer to her first
appointment, 2d January, 1827; or her last appointment, 30th
April, 1829, under which the bank claims 80 shares.
It is true that the attesting clause as to this stock says
simply "witness," which would imply only one witness, and
is therefore defective.
. But take it as if it were "witnesses" or "witnessed," then
parol proof is not admissible to explain how it was witnessed,
because the power requires that the seal and signature should
be attested. 1 Roper, pt. 2, pp. 197, 198; 9 Simons, 629, and
note; 3 Maule & Selw. 512.
But no parol proof was introduced here to explain how it
was executed. 2 Grattan, 439.

20

SUPREME
Ladd

p.

COURT.

Ladd et al.

Then all these appointments are void and defective in forms
as required.
3d Question. - Will equity aid these appointments, under
the circumstances?The witnesses required are placed as guards, and their number cannot be aided in equity. Hopkins v. Myall, 2 Russ. &
Mylne, 86 ; 1 ib. 535.
The counsel here cited and commented on a number of
cases. 2 Jac. & Walk. 425; 1 Mylne & Craig, 105, 111; 6
Wendell, 9; 20 Law Library, 74, 75; 3 Russ. 565; 6 Bligh,
N. S. 120; 3 Ham. 529; 7 Beavan, 551; 8 Wheat. 229; 1 Peters, 338; 12 Peters, 375; 16 Yes. 116; 3 Johns. Ch. 97113; 2 Merivale, 483; 8 Leigh, 21; 2 Russ & Mylne, 86;
1 ib. 535.
4th Question. - Is MIrs. Ladd equitably estopped from
claiming her rights in this property?
It is said that it would be a fraud in her now to claim as
against the purchasers.
What are the facts?
First, we objected to Hooff as a witness.
By agreement, Hobff is to be considered as having been examined under an order of court, but the question as to his competency is reserved.
- We allege that Hooff is 'dn incompetent. witness, because
the legal title was passed to him by the original trustee, John
H. Ladd, in violation of his trust,"and thdt the legal title being
sfill in: Hoofi ,the deree, if in bur'favr, would be for areconveyance to our trustee, or some other trustee, with costs as
against Hooff.
But even conceding Hoofis competenfcy, then his evidence
consists of his answer and deposition, per-our agreement.
He proves by way of estoppel, 1st. That he always understood, and verily believes, that a
large portion of the loan to Ladd Was used in improving the
wharf property claimed by complainant.
Answer to this, first, that -he does not staie it of his own
knowledge; secondly, that if he did, it proves no fraud in
complainant.
2d. That after an order of the bank directing a sale, the
complainant applied for and obtained an extension of the credit
payments at the sale.
3d. That, at Mrs. Ladd's request, the bank ordered the property sold should be laid off by certain specified boundaries before
the sale, upon the supposition that by such division it would
command a large sum, and that in accordance with a previous

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

21

Ladd v. Ladd et aL

understanding, on the 5th of September, 1842, (two days before
the sale,) the complainant wrote her approval on Exhibit No. 2.
Answer. - By the deed of trust to Hooff, onemonth's notice
was to be ,given of the place, time, and terms of sale.
And by the advertisement, the wharf was to be sold, subject
to no easement or encumbrance, - and the dwelling and storehouse to be sold at the same time.
All this was advertised to be done on. the 7th of September.
But two days before the sale, Hooff and Mrs. Ladd agree, by
the paper No. 2, to divide the property and sell the wharf, subject to a right of the dwelling and warehouse to land on the
wharf.
Is not this a material change in the terms advertised ?
Unquestionably, by the deed of trust these new terms ought
to have been advertised one month, which was not done.
But it will be said that Mrs. Ladd agreed to vary the. terms,
and have the sale without any advertisement of the new terms.
Even if she was competent so to agree, there is no proof that
she had ever read the advertisement, or knew what day the
sale was to take place.
Nor does it follow, that, when she agreed on the 5th of September to vary the' terms of sale as advertised, she had any
reason to believe that Hooff would not re-advertise the property
on the modified terms of sale.
Then here is a sale made on one set of terms advertised,
and another set of terms announced at the sale, for Hooff says
he sold on the terms as altered on the 5th of September, and
nothing done by Mrs. Ladd to waive the one month's advertisemeni of the new terms.
For her meeting Hooff on. the day of sale, (not time of sale,
which was 12.o'clock per the advertisement,) on'the premises
and conversing with him, and suggesting that addition (which,
however, does not appear in the record) to the description of
the property "then about" to be offered fQr sale, would not
prove that Mrs. Ladd waived the due notice, unless it was
proved that she knew the sale was then to'take place.
Then it is clear that Hooff advertised the wharf clear of encumbrances, and sold it subject to an encumbrance as avowed
at the time of sale, and there is nothing to prove that Mrs.
Ladd agreed to waive the advertisement, as required in her
deed of trust.
Was that a fair and legal sale?
And have the purchasers any 'standing in equity?
If a trustee sells in violation of the injunctions in his deed of
trust,'the legal title passes at law, but in equity the cestui que

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

trust has relief against the purchaser who has bought with
constructive notice of the breach of trust, or non-compliance
with the conditions.- Taylor v. King, 6 Munf. 366; 4 Cranch,
403; and 4 Munf. 421; Greenleaf v. Queen, 1 Peters,- 138,
145.
But do the circumstances thus detailed, namely, Mrs. Ladd's
application to extend the credit payments, her request to divide
the, property for sale, and her conversing with the trustee Hooff
on the premises on the day of sale, -do .all these circumstances amount to fraud in bar of her equity?
We contend not.
Because fraud consists in the "supyressio veri or suggestio
falsi."
And there is no suppression by Mrs. Ladd of the fact that she
had restrictedher power by her marriage settlement. On the
contrary, it is plainly recited in the deed to Hooff, who knew
it well, and his purchasers were equally bound to know the recitals in the deed to their vendor. See 2 Tucker's Com. 439,
442.
. Finally, if we have succeeded in demonstrating that this
married woman had no power to convey except modo etforma,
then we deny that her fraud can confer such a power on her.
For where a feme covert had no power to convey by anticipation, it was held that her fraud could not operate so as to give
such a power. Jackson v. Hobhouse, 2 Merivale, 488.
Then, if the settlement is relied on as conferring a power to
appoint away this real estate, we have shown, 1st. That it does not authorize such sweeping deposition.
2d. That. what it does authorize has not been formally appointed or attempted to be.
3d. That as against.this feme covert, under all the cases and
all the circumstances, equity would not cure the defective execution.
And if there was a resulting separate equitable estate in Mrs.
Ladd, with no power to alienate it in any mode, we have
shown, first, that the express power to appoint during coverture
negatives all other powers; secondly, that in Virgini4 separate real estate can only be disposed of by deed, &c., with privy
examination.
The next subject-matter is the turnpike stock. We show
that 'the bank holds 80 shares, admitted to be part of the settled
stock. We have already shown that it is defectively appointed.
And if so, there is no pretence of fraud here, as touching the
real estate.
It is true the Virginia decisions say that a simple settlement

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

23

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

of personal estate to separate use involves the jus disponendi,
but that means where no special mode of disposition is expressed. See 3 Rand. 377, 381, 392; 9 Leigh, 206, 207 -221.
In such cases, all the authorities concur, that the forms are
restraints. Inasmuch, then, as the bank holds the legal title
charged with our equity in these shares, we have a right to a
decree, divesting them of the tortious title thus acquired, and
an account of the back dividends.
And we also have a right to have a decree for the unsold
portion of the property, under the prayers for special and general relief, and to an injunction against a sale of that and a reconveyance in trust.
If, then, we have rights in any or all this property, we haw
a right to have all these conveyances cancelled in equity. 1
Story's Eq. 9, 10, 12.
As M1rs. Ladd's title is but an equitable one, she must enforce
her rights in chancery, as she has no remedy at law.
Part of the brief on behalf of the defenylants was as follows.
The bill charges force and fraud, -the undue exercise of
marital power, &c., &c., as the inducements that forced the
complainant, against her will, into the execution of the deed in
trust to Hooff, subjecting a portion of her separate estate as
collateral security, &c., &c.
All these charges are met and conclusively repelled in the
answers of the defendants, - and are so left without a particle
of evidence to countenance them; and positively discredited
by every circumstance in the case.
The complainant's case is then left to rest upon certain technical objections to the said deed in trust, for supposed departures from limitations imposed by the settlement on her, the
complainant's, own rights in her own separate estate.
The following objections to that instrument are insisted on.
Objection 1. Attestation defective, in not specifying the act
of signing as one of the acts attested.
Answer 1. The attestation, coupfed, as it ought to be, with
the conclusion of the deed, stating its execution under the
hands and seals of the parties, is a sufficient attestation to the
signing.
Answer 2. No distinct attestation to the signature necessary.
Against the reason and authority of the adjudications which,
within the last thirty-six years seem to have upheld the objection, contrary to all the best of precedent opinions, and to have
overruled our answers to it, see Sugden on Powers, 6th ed., ch.
6, § 4, pp. 294 - 325, and the authorities there reviewed and

SUPREME

COURT.

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

criticized; Pollock v. Glassell, 2 Grattan, (Ya.) 440, and the
authorities there cited and reviewed, &c., &c.; Langhorne v.
Hobson, 4 Leigh, 224; Tod ,v. Baylor, ib. 498; Parks v. Hewlett, 9 Leigh, 511; Hume v. Hord, 5 Grattan, 374; Lessee
of Fosdick v. Risk, 15 Ohio, 84; Lord Mansfield's opinion in
Wright v. Wakeford, reported in the Appendix, No. 6, to Sug.
on Pow., ed. 1823.
Answer 3. Even if the marriage settlement directed the
writing to be signed, and the signature to be distinctly attested,
that direction is not restrictive, and in no sort avoids the deed.
1st. Because the words of the settlement, if they call for
Mrs. Ladd's signature, and for the attestation of three witnesses to her signature, are merely directory, and do not necessarily
exclude any other form of alienation competent to an ordinary
proprietor and bargainer.
2d. Because Mrs. Ladd was in the nature of a feme sole,
whose jus disponendli is not restricted ,to the mode of alienation or appointment directed in the settlement ; the settlement
not purporting to negative every other mode. 1 Fonbl., ch.
2,'§ 6, pp. 96 - 101, notes n, o, p, q, and the authorities there
cited; Ewing" v. Smith, 3 Desaussure, 417, and the authorities thfere cited and commented on ; Jaques v. Methodist
Episc. Church, 17'Johns. 548, and the authorities there cited
and explained; Sugden on Powers, 6th ed., ch. 4, § 1, from p.
208 to the end of the section) the authorities there cited ; I
Serg.'& Rawle, 275; Clancy on Husband and Wife, ed. 1837,.
ch. 5 and 6 ; Newlin v..Newlin, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 279 ; Story's
Eq. Ju., ed. 1846, § 1390, and authorities there referred to;
Field v. Sowle, 4 Russ. 112 ; Gardner v. Gardner, 22 Wend.
,526; Dallam v. Wampole, 1 Peters, C. C. 116; Vizonneau v.
Pegram, 2 Leigh, 183; Atherly on Mar. Set. 335; Lee et al.
v. Bank U. S., 9 Leigh, 200; manuscript case of Woodson V.
Perkins.
Objection 2. The sealing and delivery of the deed by Mrs.
Ladd is attested by only two witnesses, whereas the settlement called for three.
Aiswer 1. The objection rests on a mistake of fact; it is
attested by three witnesses.
Answer 2. As a deed executed by her in her capacity of a
feme sole as to her separate estate, and not restricted to the particular form of alienation directed by the settlement, no written
attestation of witnesses appended to the deed was called for
by the act of Assembly regulating conveyances; it is enough
if the deed be proved to be her act by three witnesses before
the proper court; and it is so proved.

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

25

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

They need not be subscribing witnesses. Act of Assembly
regulating conveyances; Turner v. Stip, 1 Wash. 319; Long
v. Ramsay, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 72.
.Objection3. That Mrs. Ladd ought to have been privily examined, pursuant to the Virginia act of Assembly.
Answer 1. It follows from the competency of Mrs. Ladd as a
feme sole suijuris,in respect of her separate bstate, (as established by the authorities above cit~d,) that to call for her privy
examination as a feme covert would be contradictory and
absurd.
Answer 2. That her acts disposing of her separate estate are
effectual without privy examination, has been expressly and
well settled, by authority. Peacock v. Monk, 2 Yes. sen. 191;
Wright v. Cadogan, 6 Bro. Parl. Cas. 486 ; Barnes's Lessee v.
Irwin, 2 Dall. 199; Doe v. Staple, 2 Term Rep. 695; Bradish
v. Gibbs, 3 Johns. Ch. 523 ; Powell on Contracts, 67 ; Compton v. Collison, 1 H. BI. 334; Rippon v. Dawding, Ambler,
565; 1 Tuck. Black. 115.
Objection 4. That Mrs. Ladd's jus disponendi, or power of
appointment, was restricted to the annual interest, rents, and
profits, and did not extend to the land itself.
Answer 1. The settlement extends, plainly and expressly,
both to the land and to the rents and profits.
Answer 2. . The land itself passed, ex vi terminorum, under
the terms "all the interest, rents, and profits."
Devise of " issues and profits ",of land, all one with a devise
of the land itself. Parker v. Plummer, Cro. Eliz. 190.
So a devise of the' ,"occupation and profits" of a house and
park is a devise of the very house and park. Paramour v.
Yardley, Plowd., 2d point, argued pp. 541- 543, decided p.
546.
No difference whether a devise of the land itself, or of the
use, occupation, or profits of the land. Manning's case, 8 Co.
Rep. 187.
",Rents and profits" means, not annual rents and profits, but
the estate itself. Bootle v, Blundel, 1 Meriv. 213, 232, 233;
Allan v. Backhouse, 2 Yes. & B. 65.
Grant by deed of the "1profits" of land to one and his heirs
passes the whole land. Co. Lit. 4 b; 4 Com. Dig., Grant,E. 5;
Clancy on Husband and Wife, ch. 6, ps. from 295 to 303, and
cases there cited; Barford v. Street, 16 Yes. 135; Jaques v.
Methodist Episcopal Church, 17 Johns. 548, and cases there
cited; Roper on Husband and Wife, 136, and cases there col-'
lected. The expression "from time to time," will not prevent
the wife from making a sweeping appointment. Pybus v.
VOL.Vu11.
3

26

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

Smith, 3 Bro. Ch. C. 346; 2 Story, Eq. Jur., §4 1393- 1395;
Yirginia Rev. Co., ed. 1803, p. 159, 4 12.
But supposing the execution of the power of appointment
defective in strictly legal requisites, a court of equity would
leave her to her strictly legal remedy, and not help her to an
unconscionable advantage: but, on the contrary, would actively interpose to relieve the purchaser or mortgagee, and compel
the feme covert or infant to do equity.
Under the circumstances of this case,' it would be against
conscience, and fraudulent, for the complainant to take advantage of the alleged defects in the deed.
And married women, as well as infants,. are barred by their
own frauds.
It is a fraud to object to the sale or mortgage of their property, after it has been consummated with their assent, express
or implied.
Their assent is implied, if they stand by and see their property disposed of, without instantly asserting their right, and
notifying the party interested.
Any knowledge of the act whereby their rights are affected,
is a " standing by,"- if they have opportunity to assert their
right, &c., and covinously neglect it.
Littleton, 4 678; Co. Lit. 357 a, 357 b, and 35 a. Feme covert'% rights are choked and suffocated by her silent acquiescence, even though her covin be united with that of her
husbaud.
Savage v. Foster, 9 Mod. 35, 37; 1 Robinson, (La.) 244.
Marridd women are as much bound as their husbands to be
honest ; - equally necessary for them to come with clean
hands into a court of equity. Braxton v. Lee's Heirs, 4 Hen.
& Munf. 376-383; Engle v. Burns, 5 Call, 463; Evans v.
Bicknell, 6 Yes. 174-193; Morrison v. Morrison, 2 Dana,
16.
Even were the deed in trust to Hooff defective, a court of
equity would lend its aid in favor of a creditor. 1 Story, Eq.
Jur., §§ 95, 96, 97, 169, 170, and cases there cited. A feme
covert may bind her separate property, for her own or husband's
debts, and will be held to a.specific performance of her contract. 2 Story, Eq. Jur., §§ 1399, 1399 a, 1340, and cases
there cited ; Hulme v. Tenant, 1 Bro. C. C. 14, and notes;
Owen v. Dickerson, 1 Craig & Phil. 46; Allen v. Papworth, 1
Yes. sen. 163 ; 3 Johns. Ch. 144.
The cibmplainant is estopped, by her deed in trust to Hooff,
from now attempting to claim the property. Shaw v. Clements,
1 Call, 381, top p.; Danforth v. Murray, 12 Johns. 201; Stevens

JANUARY TERM, .1850.

27

Ladd v. Ladd et a'1.
v. Stevens, 13 Johns. 316; Jackson v. Bull, 1 Johns. Qas. 90;
Jackson v. Hoffman, 9 Conn. 271; Heth, Cocke and Wife, 1
Raw. 344.
As to the right of the bank to hold road stock, Jervis v.
Rogers, 13 Mass. 105; S. C., 15 ib. 389 ; Union Bank of Georgetown v. Laird, 2 Wheat. 390; Elder v. Rouse, 15 Wend. 208;
Chesslyn v. Smith, 8 Ves. 183.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The important legal questions arising upon this record, and
on which the decision of the cause must depend, appear to be
these :1st. The nature and extent of the estate embraced within
the power reserved to the feme by the marriage settlement;
viz., whether that power comprised as well real 'as personal
estate, or was limited to interest, rents, -and profits -merely, and
by name.
2d. The -mode of appointment indicated by the marriage
contract, and whether this mode has been shown to have been
either strictly or substantially and fairly complied with in the
requisites of signing, sealing, and attestation..
Before proceeding to a particular examination of the questions above stated, it may be proper to premise some observations with respect to the charges in the bill; and first, of undue
marital influence, and secondly, of fraud as means employed in
accomplishing the wrongs to which the. complainant alleges
she has been subjected, and against which she has sought relief. With regard to the first of these alleged means, it must
be remarked, that no certain or specific mode or act, neither coercion, allurement, nor wilful misrepresentation or falsehood, is
charged, by which the free will, the .judgment, or the inclination of the complainant has been restrained or misled. Every
feme covert is presumed, under a settlement like the one in
the present case, to be to some extent a free agent; and she
must or ought to be presumed to entertain dispositions of kindness towards her husband. But if, in the indulgence of such
dispositions, she should make an'unlucky or unprofitable appointment, it would be carrying the principle of protection to
an extreme destructive of every conception of free agency, to
determine that these untoward results were in themselves
proofs of- undue marital influence. The husband does not answer the bill in this case, and there is no direct evidence introduced to sustain this charge as to him; but some of the facts
in the testimony go very far to contradict this allegatiorr,- as,
for instance, the conduct of the fome, manifested and repeated

28

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v.- Ladfd et al.

long after the separation from her husband had at any rate exempted her from -any influence his presence and immediate
agency might have been supposed to exert. This same conduct of the feme, 'her positive cooperation in the arrangements for the sale of the property, and her acquiescence in that
sale until after the title had been made to the purchaser, furnish such presumption of the absence of fraud in the transactions complained of, which, if it is not absolutely conclusive,
certainly calls for contravening evidence bf a direct and powerof force sufficient to overthrow and
ful character, -evidence
set aside the complainant's own acts and declarations. But independently of the facts and circumstances just adverted to, the
positive denial of fraud in every answer in the cause, and the
absence of any proof to sustain it, should alone be taken as a
complete refutation of the charge.
We will -nowparticularly consider the nature and extent of
the estate reserved to the complainant by the marriage settlement, and which was embraced within her power to appoint,
by a juit construction of that instrfiment. It is alleged in the
bill, that this estate was limited to interest, as synonymous with
income, rents, and profits, eo nonine, and did not extend to the
fee of the real estate, nor to the principal of the stock settled
to the uses of the marriage. By every sound rule of construction, an instrument should be interpreted by the context, so as
if possible to give a'sensible meaning and effect to all its provisions; and so as to avoid rendering portions of it contradictory and inoperative, by giving effect to some clauses to the exelusion of others. Expounded by this rule, let us see what will
be the character of the estate here limited to the wife, and what
the extent of her power to appoint in relation thereto.
I The deed of settlement begins by reciting, "that, whereas the
said Harriet V. Nicoll is now possessed of" a considerable -real
and personal estate, which it has been agreed should be settled
to her sole and separate use, with power to dispose of the same
by appointment or devise." The deed then sets forth the estate, real and. personal, conveyed by it, and enumerates the trusts
created thereby, and amongst them the one involved in this
controversy; and differently interpreted by the parties thereto,
as follows, viz.: that the trustee "shall and do jermit the said
Harriet V. Nicoll, the intended wife, to have, receive, take, and
enjoy all the interest, rents, and profits of the property hereby
conveyed, to and for her own use and benefit; or to the use of
such person or persons, and in such parts and proportions, as
she, the said Harriet V. Nicoll, shall from time to time during
the coverture, by writing, appoint, &c., or to such person or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

29

Ladd v.,Ladd et al.

persons as she by her last will and testament, &c., may.devise
or will the same to; and in default of-such appointment and
devise, then the estate and premises aforesaid to go to those
who may be entitled thereto by legal distribution."
Let it be here remarked, that the object of the deed is declared to be the settlement of the whole of the estate, real and
personal, upon the married woman, with power to dispose of
the whole of it, either by appointment or devise. It will not
be denied that this investment of, and authority over, the whole
estate, so explicitly declared, might not have been modified or
even revoked by subsequent provisions of the same instrument;
-but certainly they should be made to yield only to declarations
equally explicit, or to such as are absolutely contradictory to
mnd irreconcilable with them. Can it be correctly affirmed of
the subsequent and specific designation of the trusts in this
deed, that they are .either plainly contradictory, or ir:econcilable
with the purposes of the settlement previously and so explicitly declared? May not the term interest,contained in that enumeration, considered in its relative collocation to the terms rents
and profits, be understood as equivalent with the word estate,
especially when the terms rents and profits may be correctly
taken to cover interest understood as mere revenue, and still
more especially when we keep in view the previous purpose
set forth in the deed, -that of settling on the feme, and subjecting to her disposition by deed or will, the whole of her estate, real and personal? Certainly there is nothing in the term
interest incompatible with the meaning of the terms estate or
property, for in an ordinary as well as in a technical acceptation, interest may imply both estate and property. But there
is another illustration of this matter which would seem to put
it beyond farther doubt, that the power of appointment in question cannot by any rational construction be restricted to interest
understood as revenue or money, or to rents and profits eis nominibus. Let it be again remarked, that, by the preceding part
of the marriage contract, all the estate, real and personal, was
settled to the feme, withk power to appoint the whole, without
exception, by deed or will. Then, after the words which it is
insisted for the complainant restricted, her power, we have, at •
the conclusion of the deed, these words:
"-and in default of
such appointment or devise, then the estate and premises -aforesaid to go to those who may be entitled thereto by legal distribution." Now the construction which would restrict her power
to interest, rents, and profits, would seem as if intended to makethe fee or inheritance dep6ndent upon the contingency of an
appointment of these mere chattel interests by the feme ; -if
3*

30

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

she fail to appoint these, which alone it is insisted she had
power to appoint, then, as a condition or consequence, "the estate and premises aforesaid" to go to those who may be entitled thereto by distribution. Let it be supposed that, being
thus restricted, she does appoint these chattel interests; what
then becomes of the inheritance or fee ? The feme cannot,
according to the argument, control or appoint it either by deed
,or will; this, it is said, is beyond her power. Does it not in this
aspect of the case descend, or become subject to distribution,
precisely as it was to do as the condition of non-appointment?
So that, whether she appoints or not, the fee or inheritance goes
precisely the same way. This construction renders the provisions of the marriage contract useless and unmeaning. It contemplates on the part of the wife an action wholly nugatory as
to the ultimate disposition of the fee, which it places entirely
beyond her control either by deed or by will, and leaves it to
pass according to the law of inheritance whether she be active
or quiescent. This confusion and obscurity in the construction
of the contract is removed by taking the context, - by connecting the first clear and positive declaration of its objects, viz. the
settlement on the feme of all her real and personal estate, and
the power in her to appoint the same by deed or will, with the
concluding provision of that contract, which declares that, in default of appointment or devise, "then all the estate and premises aforesaid," covering the whole deed; not the interest on
money, not the dividends on stocks, nor profits of any kind, but
the whole estate conveyed and settled, shall go to those who
may be entitled thereto by legal distribution. This construction gives consistency and meaning to. the entire contract, and
satisfies us that the power of appointment reserved to the wife
was coextensive with the whole estate and subjects of the settlement..
It remains next to be considered whether the mode of appointment prescribed or indicated by the marriage contract,
whether the power be construed in an extended or restricted
sense, has been strictly or fairly and substantially complied
with. On behalf of the appellant it is insisted, that, in the
deed of the 9th day of October, 1827, from John H. Ladd,
the trustee in the marriage settlement, and Harriet V. Ladd,
to John Hooff as trustee for the Farmers' Bank of Alexandria, regarding that deed as an appointment by Mrs. Ladd, under a competent power, still in its execution there has been
such a departure from the mode prescribed for the exercise of
the power by Mrs. Ladd, as renders her act wholly inoperative and void. The marriage contract, after securing the prop-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

31

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

erty settled to the use of the wife, proceeds thus: - "or to the
use of such person or persons, and in such parts and proportions, as she, the said Harriet V. Nicoll, shall appoint from time
to time, during the coverture, by any writing or writings under
her hand and seal, attested by three credible witnesses." The
deed to Hooff, it will be seen, after reciting that John H. Ladd,
the trustee in the marriage contract, in execution of the trusts
expressed and declared in the marriage contract, and for a pecuniary consideration, does grant, bargain, and sell to Hooff; and,
after farther recital that "the said Harriet V. Ladd, in execution
of the power of appointment to her reserved in the settlement.
does hereby direct and appoint the premises herein before described to be held by the said John Hooff and his heirs on
the uses and for the purposes and trusts before recited," concludes in the folloxwing language: - "In witness whereof, the
said John H. Ladd, Harriet V. Ladd, and John Hooff, have
hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first before written." Then, after the names and seals of the parties,
are written, in the usual place of attestation, these words:"Sealed and delivered in presence of George C. Kring, John
McCobb, Matthias Snyder, Charles Muncaster, Jonathan Field."
Upon this state of facts, it has been contended that the execution of the power was defective and null, inasmuch as the
power could ba executed only by an instrument under the
hand and seal of the married woman, and that the attestation of the witnesses shows simply a sealing and delivery of
the deed of appointment, and shows nothing in relation to the
signiig by the parties. Some objection was made in the
argument, founded upon the relative position of the names
of the attesting witnesses, as tending. to produce uncertainty as to which of the parties the witnesses meant to testify;
but this objection, whether or not under other circumstances
it might have been of any importance, was obviated by an
exhibition in court of the original deed, which it was admitted was the document before the court below in the trial
of this cause. In considering this objection to the defective
attestation of the instrument of appointment, it is to be observed that the complainalt, by her bill, does not impeach
the deed on any such ground; on the contrary, she expressly
alleges that this deed was signed and executed by all the
parties thereto, and witnessed by the four persons whose names
appear thereon. Such being the state of facts, it may very
properly be questioned whether a party admitting and averring the execution of an instrument, and impeaching only its
fairness or its legal operation, exhibiting nothing in the state

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

of the pleadings requiring his adversary to establish the execution of such instrument, can, even in the court of original cognizance, be permitted to deny or question at the trial the existence or execution of the document against his own averment or. admission. Such a proceeding would be a surprise
in the court below; but it would be still more so if, after the
trial, and without even an exception indorsed upon the document, it could be objected to before an appellate tribunal.
There is no exception taken to the form or attestation of this
deed of appointment found in the record before us. But was
there not proof of the full execution of this power, inclusive
of signing, according to approved legal intendment? One of
the earliest cases, perhaps the earliest, going directly to sustain
the exception here urged to the execution of the power, is that
of 'Wright v. Wakeford, 17 Yegey, 454. In that case, as
in the one before us, the contract creating the power directed
the appointment to be made by writing or writings under hand
and seal; and in that case as in this, the memorandum of attestation was in the words "sealed and delivered," omitting to
assert in terms the signature by the maker. Lord Eldon forbore to decide whether this certificate or memorandum embraced the signing as well as the sealing and delivery of the
instrument, and sent the case to the Common Pleas, who certified (three of the justices, Heath, Lawrence, and Chambre,
• concurring against the opinion of Mansfield, C. J.) that in
their opinion the power had not been well pursued.
After Wright v. Wakeford, followed the cases of Doe ex
dem. Mansfield v. Peach, 2 Maule & S'elwyn, 576; Wright v.
Barlow, 3 Maule & Selwyn, 512; Doe ex dem. Hotchkiss
v. Pearce, 6 Taunton, 402. These cases rest upon Wright
v. Wakeford, and some, if not all, of them refer to it expressly as their foundation. But, even contemporaneously with
the cases just mentioned, it will be perceived that the courts
have in some instances sought to free themselves from these
literal trammels of Wright v. Wakeford, as too narrow to
comprise the principles of justice and common sense; for as
early as 7 Taunton, 355, in the case of Moodie v. Reed, which
was sent from the Chancery,. the will was attested in this
general phrase, "witness, &c.," by two witnesses: In the testimonium clause the testatrix says, "These bequests are signed
by me." Gibbs, C. J., said that this was clearly a good attestation of the signing. Still later, it has been ruled in several
cases where the power required awill signed and published
in 'presence of three witnesses, that the attestation'was good
expressing the will to have been signed and delivered. The

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

33

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

evident disposition of the courts being to adopt the -reason
and substance of the transaction, they have, as matter of conSee 4
struction, determined that delivery was publication.
Sim. 558; 5 Sim. 118.
But whatever doubt may heretofore have overhung and perplexed this matter, that doubt, so far as the reasonings of the
English bench should shed light upon the judicial mind of
our country, ought to be cleared away. This effect, we think,
should be produced by the arguments in the House of Lords
of the assembled judges in the case of Burdett v. Spilsburr,
reported in 6 Manning & Granger, beginning .at p. 386.
In this case, presenting, as of course, an exhibition of great
ability and learning, the execution and attestation of appointments under powers are the sbbjects considered. The cases
from Wright v. Wakeford down, involving any important principle, are reviewed, and these subjects placed upon the basis
of common sense. It is true that the facts in the case of
Burdett v. Spilsbury were not precisely those of Wright v.
Wakeford, the attestation clause in the latter being special and
that in the former case not special ; yet in the examination of the
latter case, and of those which have followed and been rested
upon it, their doctrines are discussed and by a majority of the
judges disapproved, several of the judges who conceived themselves constrained to support Wright v. Wakeford, upon the
maxim stare decisis, expressing their regret at the obligation
supposed to be binding upon them, and declaring that, were
the case res integra, they should certainly reject its doctrines.
The extended views of the judges in Burdett v. Spilsbury
cannot be given consistently with the limits of this opinion,
yet some of their illustrations of the principles they maintain
may properly be adverted to. And it will be perceived that
the substance and meaning of those principles are comprised
in the following positions :
1st. That the terms and modes prescribed in settlements
for the execution of powers should be followed in reason
and substance, so as to insure the purposes and objects contemplated by such settlements, and so as to prex'ent them from
being sacrificed to mere literal severity of construction.
2d. That the memorandum of attestation to a deed or will,
whether that memorandum be general or special, is not conclusive as to the ceremony of the execution of the instrument
to which such memorandum is annexed. but may be explained
by the testimony of the witnesses themselves, or by reference
to the testimonium clause of the instrument, as showing the
facts and circumstances set forth in that clause, and which the
witnesses were called on to attest.

SUPREME

COURT.

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

Thus in the case of Burdett v. Spilsbury, p. 392, Wightman, Justice, says, - " The power requires that the instrument
shall be signed, sealed, and published by the testatrix in the
presence of three witnesses, and that they shall attest the instrument. No form of attestation would for the first thirty
years have dispensed with the necessity of calling one of the
subscribing witnesses, if any were alive, to prove that the formalities required by the power had been complied with; but
after thirty years, the case would rest upon the presumption
arising from the production of the instrument itself. In the
present case, the instrument shows a general attestation of it
by three witnesses, without any statement of the particular
facts they attested: but they must be understood to have attested something; and to ascertain what that is, 4here is no
principle of law, nor any authority of which I am aware, that
prohibits a reference to the instrument itself; and if we look
at the instrument for information as to that which it is to be
presumed the witness did attest or witness, what do we find?
Upon the face of the instrument which the witnesses attest,
the testatrix says, I do publish and declare this to be my last
will and testament. In witness whereof I have set my hand
and seal to this my last will andtestament,- and then follows
a signature and seal purporting to be those of the testatrix.
But supposing such a special form of. attestation as that contended for had been adopted, it would not have varied the
character of the evidence derived from the terms of the instrument, and the general attestation of the witnesses. It would
but have raised a presumption for the jury that they did witness that which is stated in the attestation, subject to any
doubt that might be raised as to whether they really did witness that which is stated in the written attestation or not."
In the same case, Williams, Justice, says,

-"

Now the lan-

guage of the power (as has been already mentioned) is, by her
last will and testament, lo be by her signed, sealed, and published in the presence of, and attested by, three or more credible
witnesses. All this is found to have been done, and we are
now to see whether, by ordinary and fair construction, neither
forcing any interpretation in favor of it, nor wholly excluding
any.reasonable inference for the mere purpose of defeating
what we know to have been rightly done, the requisites appear
to have been complied with. And here it seems very important to attend particularly to the document itself. The will first
contains the whole testamentary part; every disposition of the
property is first fully made, and the will is therefore as to that,
its principal object, complete. The rest regards the manner of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

"35

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

the execution. It is thus: -I
declare this only to be 'my last
will and testament. In witness whereof, I have to this mny last
will and testament, containedin one sheet, set my hand and seal.
The testatrix signed this part twice, once after the above words,
and again where her seal is affixed, and directly opposite to the
latter is the word witness, and immediately under it are the names
of the witnesses; and the question is whether it is to be understood that they attested, or, in other words, were witnesses to
any thing; and if so, how much? And first it is to be asked,
for what purpose was this testimonium clause (as it has been
called) introduced, or rather added ? Certainly not to explain
or to qualify the will, or any part of it. To its provisions it
has no allusion ; but it respects the forms to be observed in the
execution of the will, and that only. Why are we to suppose
that the testatrix was ignorant of the terms, upon which alone
her dispositions could be available? This, the language of the
clause shows she did understand. The clause, therefore, having
this object, we come to consider the purpose for which the
witnesses are introduced, and I confess I cannot conceive it
possible to understand the meaning of their presence, except to
witness something. If it be said, and with truth, that the witnesses cannot be presumed to be cognizant of the contents of
the will, because that is contrary to experience, it is surely
somewhat contrary to the same .experience to suppose, that,
when the presence of the witnesses is to be accounted for only
by their being brought there to witness something, certain ceremonies were performed, but that they saw nothing of them,
and that, too, when the very language of the testimonium (I
declare, &c.) imports that the testatrix was making the declaration, not to the winds, but to persons to whom she might
address herself, - who were there to see and hear. If, then, the
witnesses must be understood to have attested something, I
can see no possible reason for stopping short of the conclusion,
that they attested every thing which by the cl'ause purports to
have been done, that is, signing, sealing, and publication."
Again by the same Justice, p. 433: - "Now, in Wright v.
Wakeford, the power required the consent of A and B, testified
by writing or writings under their hands and seals, attested by
two or more credible witnesses. The attestation clause is
sealed and delivered by the within-named A and B, in the presence of C. B. and G. B. Here the ceremony of signing was
omitted in an attestation which professed to give an account of
what had been done, and there was not, as in the present case,

a testinonium clause."
In speaking of Wright v. Wakeford, Gurney, Baron, remarks,

SUPREME COURT.

36

Ladd v. Ladd et al.
"It

is impossible to mention the names of Lord Eldon and

the three other judges of the Common Pleas, Heath, Lawrence,
and Chambre, otherwise than in terms of great respect. Nevertheless, with all the respect which is due to their authority, I
cannot but think it most unfortunate that this decision was
ever made. It has led to great injustice. It has disappointed
the just expectations of sellers and devisors, and involved the
courts in great difficulties." So, too, Lord Brougham, p. 466: "I hardly know a case which has excited, at different times,
more remark than Wright v. Wakeford. It has been again and
again questioned, it has again and again been criticized, by the
learned judges. It cannot, therefore, be said to have been at
any time a case that commanded any thing like the entire
concurrence of Westminster Hall."
The reasoning of Tindal, C. J.,' in Burdett v. Spilsbury,
applies with great force and clearness to the question before
us. "If," says this judge, "the word Iwitness ' is taken abstractedly by itself, as constituting the whole of the attestation,
I can see no objection to holding that the three persons whose
names are subjoined to it must be taken to be witnesses to all
that was actually done at the time, which is found by the
special verdict to be all that was required to be done. Or, if
the word witness is to be construed with reference to the statement immediately preceding it at the end of the will, then the
word witness necessarily implies that the testatrix did in their
presence declare the instrument to be her will, and that she did
in their presence put her hand and seal thereto, that is, in the
language of the settlement, that she signed, sealed, and published it in the presence of these three witnesses. To this construction an objection was taken at your Lordship's bar, which
had also been relied upon by some of the learned judges who
delivered their opinions before me; viz. that it proceeds u'pon
the supposition, that the whole instrument may legally be read
together to explain the meaning of the word witness, and that
it supposes the witnesses are conusant of the content of the
But I caninstrnnent, neither of which can be supposed.
not feel the force of this objection. There has been, from the
earliest time at which deeds were known, a marked and acknowledged distinction between the operative part of the deed
itself, and the testimoniinm clause (as it is called) at the end of
the deed. The essential part of the deed is that part, and that
The clause at the end is inonly, which contains the grant.
troduced, not as constituting any part of the deed, but merely
to preserve the evidence of the due .rcrtiont of it. Admitting,
therefore, the deed itself is matter which may be held to be

JANUARY TERM,. 1850.

37

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

confined to the knowledge of the parties, namely, the grantor
and grantee, the testimonium clause is expressly introduced
into it for the use of the public and the witness to the deed.,
It is well known that a similar clause was constantly inserted
in old deeds and charters, at the close thereof, beginning with
the words hiis testibus, and thence generally called the hiis
testibus clause, in which the names of the persons present, who
heard the deed read by the clerk, were written, not by themselves, but by the clerk who prepared the deed. Spelman'in
his Glossary, p. 228, traces out the variations in the form of the
clause, at different periods of our history; and Madox, in the
Defrutation prefixed to his FormulareAnglicanum, goes more
fully into the matter, and in the work itself gives numerous
instances which it is impossible to read without being satisfied
that the sense requires that the witnesses, whose names are inserted in the iiis testibus clause, must of necessity have known
the words preceding it, or in fact they would have witnessed
nothing at all. Take, for example among many, that numbered
312,And that this my gift, grant, and confirmation may remnain firm for ever, I have confirmed this present charter with
the impression of my seal, hiis testibus, 6-c. Who can doubt
for a moment that these witnesses either actually read, or heard
read over to them, the words of the deed immediately preceding their names, and that the introduction of the preceding
clause had no other object or purpose ? And this practice continued down to the reign of Henry VIII., as appears by the
authority of Lord Cocke, who states the practice then began of
separating the attestation from the deed itself, and for the witnesses to subscribe their own names to it, either at the bottom
of, or indorsed upon, it.
But that the clause in cujus rei testimoniurn, so long as it was found at the close of the deed itself,
never formed part of the deed itself, is evident from Shepard's
Touchstone, where he says, -' A deed is good, albeit these words
in the close thereof, in cujus rei testimonium sigillum meum
apposui,be omitted,' - citing authorities which show that it is
no more in fact than what it imports to be, the very attestation of the deed which has preceded it. There is therefore no
reason why the word witness, written immediately after this
testimonium clause, should not be considered as incorporated
with it, and as calling the attention of the witnesses to all that
had preceded in the Otestimonium clause." Again it is said by
the same judge, p. 459, -"
So far from its being a rule of law
that you may not, in the attestation of a deed, look back to
that which is found at the close of the deed itself,'that, on the
contrary, in most of the cases which have been relied on by
VOL. Vi.
4

38

SUPREME

COURT.

Ladd v. Ladd et al.

,the defendant in error, express reference has been made to the
close of the deed itself." ,
A quotation from the opinion of Lord Campbell will close
these extracts from the opinions in Burdett v. Spilsbury, protracted, perhaps, beyond" what even this interesting case -will
warrant. His Lordship says, p. 467, - "My Lords, in this case
the only question is, whether the will was attested by three
credible witnesses." He proceeds, p. 468, - "My Lords, independently of authority, I cannot doubt that for a moment. The
only objection that can be made is this, that the will upon the
face of it does not contain any process verbal or history of the
transaction. But the power imposes no such condition, - it
does not say a will, signed, sealed, and published in the presence of three witnesses and attested by them, and a will containing a history of the solemnity, - there are no such words in
the power." Again, p. 469,- "If it were~necessary, my Lords,
I think the testimonium clause here might be resorted to, both
upon principle and authority." These reasonings of the English judges, going to show that, upon principle, and independently of recent statutory provisions, the memorandum of attestation, so far from being conclusive upon the facts of signing,
sealing, and publishing or delivering an instrument, may itself
be controlled, either by the examination of the witnesses them.sdlves, or by reference to the testimonium clause of such instruments, are fully sustained, and even more than sustained, by
the authority of the supreme court of that State from whose
jurisprudence" and policy this controversy might be supposed
in some degree to take its complexion. If, therefore, the most
express adjudication of the Court of Appeals of Virginia can
govern this case, it seems at once disembarrassed of the objections alleged to the execution of the power created by the
marriage -contract.
The recent decision in the case of Pollock and Wife v. Glassel, reported in 2 Grattan, 439., would seem to be decisive of
the questions now before us, that case having clearly ruled as
the law of Virginia with regard to a deed, that, although the distinctive character of the instrument is to be determined by its
intrinsic evidence, the question is still open whether it be the
deed of the party, and that must be decided by evidence aliunde. If by plea of non est factum, or other proper denial,
the fact that the paper was sealed by the Party be put in issue,
then- it must be proved by competent and satisfactory testimony. In Virginia, by long usage, which has received the sanction of a statute, a scroll is used by way of a seal. The decisions have required that the substitution of the scroll for a
-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

seal shall be recognized on the face of the deed, but in no case
has it been held that, in the absence of such recognition, evidence is inadmissible to prove that in fact the scroll was affixed to the instrument with intent that it should stand in place
of a seal. In the case above referred to, it is said by the court, "Here the question occurs in a court of probate, whose province it'is to examine the subscribing witnesses, and, if their testimony is satisfactory, to establish and perpetuate the due execution of the instrument. Upon what principle or authority
are the subscribing witnesses to be estopped, because of some
informality in the paper, from proving the fact, that it was
sealed by the testatrix, or, what is the same thing, that she
adopted the scroll affixed to it by way of seal? - In the much
stronger case of a deed, there could be no such estoppel in a
court of probate." In the same case the court say, through
Baldwin, Justice, -" It will be seen that the statute requires
the will to be attested by the witnesses, but does not prescribe
what, nor that any, facts shall be stated in their attestation. I
think it plain, that the legislature meant nothing more, than
that the.instrument itself should be attested, in order to identify the witnesses and designate who are to prove its execution.
The object was not to obtain from the witnesses a certificate
of the- essehtial facts of the transaction, but to provide the
meapns, of proving them by persons entitled to confidence, and
selected for the purpose. The subscription of their names denotes that they were present at and prepared to prove the due
execution of the instrument so attested, and nothing more.
The attestation is the act of the witnesses, and it was not intended to confide to them the duty of stamping their testimony upon the paper; which would avail nothing as evidence,
however perfect, and which ought to create no estoppel, however imperfect. This view of the statutory provision is in effect sustained by the English decisions." Again, p. 465, it is
said by the same judge, -" I think it clear that the subscription
of the witnesses is substantially the attestation contemplated
by the statute; and it is sufficient if the purpose be indicated
by the briefest memorandum, or merely by a fair presumption
arising from the local position of their signatures upon the paper; and whether a memorandum of attestation be general or
special, it may be denied or contradicted by the subscribing
witnesses, in the whole or in part, and of course is open to explanation if in any way ambiguous." The court then proceed
to review the case of Wright v. Wakeford, and the cases of Doe
v. Peach, Wright v. Barlow, and Toodie v. Reid, rejecting them
as authority in the State of Virginia as to the form and influ-

40

SUPREME COURT.
Ladd v. Ladd et al.

ence of the memorandum of attestation, and concurring with
the doctrines declared by the majority of the judges in Burdett
v. Spilsbury.
An objection has been made to the sale under the deed of
trust, based upon the fact, that the portion of the property actually sold did not equal in value the whole amount of the debt
due to the bank, which it is insisted should have been the case,
according to the proviso in that deed. We do not see the
force of this objection, inasmuch as, by the express terms of the
deed, authority was given the trustee or the bank to sell the
property in separate parcels, as either might deem it necessary
or advisable; and it would have been impracticable before an
experiment to ascertain a piori how much of the property
would be requisite for the satisfaction of the debt, and thus a
literal adherence to the proviso would lead either to the preventing a sale altogether, or to the sacrifice of the whole estate,
whether there should have been a necessity for it or not.
Moreover, the sale by parcel in this case was selected upon a
calculation of advantage to the feme, and with her express approbation, with the view of saving to her, if practicable, a portion of the property.
Upon full consideration of the facts and the law of this case,
the court are of the opinion, that the marriage contract gave
power to the feme covert to appoint the entire estate and property embraced within it; that the provisions and conditions of
that contract have been complied with in the execution of the
power thereby created and reserved; that therefore the decree
of the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill of the appellant, the
complainant below, ought to be affirmed, and it is hereby accordingly affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Alexandria, and
was-argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and *decreedby this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs.

