JANUARY TERM, 1850.

107

Williams v. Benedict et al

Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court
affirming the judgment of the District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to enter a disaffirmance of the judgment of the District Court, and to remand this cause to the said District Court,
with directions to that court to award a venire facias de novo,
and for further proceedings to be had the.rein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

THoI IAs WILLIAIMS, ADIINISTRATOR OF BE.xrAxIN J. BALDWIN, DECE SED, APPELLANT, V. J6HN W. AND WILLIANr BENEDICT, TRADING
UNDER THE FIRmI AND STYLE OF BENEDICT & BENEDICT.
The laws of Mfississippi direct that, where the insolvency of the estate of a deceased
person shall be reported to the Orphans' Court, that court shall order a sale of the
property, and distribute the proceeds thereof amongst the creditors pro rata, and
that in the mean time no execution shall issue upon a judgment obtained against
such insolvent estate.
A judgment obtained against the administrator before the declaration by the Orphans'
Court of the insolvency of the estate, is not, upon that account, entitled Xoa preference; but must share in the general distribution.
But this court expresses no opinion as to the right of State legislation to compel
foreign creditors, in all cases, to seek their remedy against the estates of decedents
in the State courts alone, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States, for the Northern District of Mississippi, sitting as a court
of equity.
The appellant, Thomas Williams, was complainant below, in
a bill setting forth, that letters of administration on the estate
of Benjamin J. Baldwin, deceased, were granted to him in October, 1838. That at the time he entered upon said administration and made an inventory of the estate, he confidently believed that his intestate's estate would be amply sufficient to
satisfy all his creditors. That at November term, 1839, the
respondents obtained a judgment against him in the District
Court of the United States, for a debt due to them b4y the intestate. That the complainant, having then discovered that
the estate would not be sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, suggested its insolvency to the Probate Court Qn the
first Monday of December following; whereupon the court ad-

108

SUPREME COURT.
Williars v. Benedict et al.

judged the estate insolvent, and appointed commissioners to receive and audit the claims. That, to the great vrong of the
intestate's other creditors, an execution has been since issued on
the judgment of Benedict & Benedict, and levied by the marshal on a large portion of the most valuable property of the
intestate, thereby preventing the sale of it by the administrator
under the order of the Probate Court. Wherefore he prays the
court to grant him a writ of audita querela,and to order a writ
of supersedeas to issue to the marshal, to stay the execution,
and for further relief.
On this bill, the judge ordered an injunction to issue. The
respondents afterwards appeared and demurred to the bill for
vant of equity, and afterwards, at June term, 1845, upon hearing, the court decreed that defendants' demurrer to plaintiTs
bill of complaint ,be sustained, and the bill dismissed. At the
same term, it was ordered that the final decree be enrolled, and
an appeal allowed to this court. A writ of error was also issued.
The 80th section of the statute of Mississippi concerning the
estates of decedents (Howard & Hutchinson; 409) provides
that, "when the estate both real and personal of any person
deceased shall be insolvent, or insufficient to pay all the just
debts which the deceased owed, the said estate, both real and
personal, shall be distributed to and among all the creditors, in
proportion to the sums to them respectively due and owing;
and the executor or administrator shall exhibit to the Orphans'
Court an account and statement, &c.. And if it appear to the
said Orphans' Cour that such estate is insolvent, then, after ordering the lands, tenements, &c. of the testator or intestate to
be sold, they shall appoint two or more persons to be commissioners, with full power to receive and examine all claims of the
several creditors of such estate," &c., &c. And the court are
afterwards required, to make distribution pro rata among the
creditors, after paying the funeral expenses, &c.
The 98th section provides, that no execution shall issue on
any judgment obtained against any such insolvent estate, but it
shall and may be filed as a claim against it, &c.
The case was argued by 1M1r. FredericP. Stanton, for the
appellant, and Mr. Featherston,for the appellees.
Mr. Stanton said that the equity of this case was dependent
upon the peculiar statutes of the State of Mississippi, which
require the assets of insolvent estates to be divided amohg
,the creditors, in proportion to their respective demands. See
Hutchinson's Miss. Code, ch. 49, sec. 103, p. 667.
This law creates a lien in favor of creditors from the time of

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

109

Williams v. Benedict et al.

the debtor's decease; and a judgment by any creditor, against
the administrator or executor, cannot affect the right of the
other creditors to their due proportion of the estate. Same
Code, p. 673.
The supreme court of the State has given an authoritative
exposition of these several provisions, in the case of Dye's
Administrator v. Bartlett, 7 Howard, (Miss.) 227.
11'r. Featherston, for the appellees.
It is contended for the appellees, Benedict & Benedict, that
the court below did not err in sustaining the demurrer to the
appellant's bill of injunction. It is rather~a matter of surprise
that said bill should have been granted by the district judge.
Appellant shows, by the allegations and admissions in his bill,
that the estate of his intestate was rendered insolvent by his
own negligence and maladministration. The largest debt due
the estate of said Baldwin, to wit, a note drawn by Henry A.
Fowlkes, of Alabama, for seven thousand dollars, was lost to
the estate by the refusal of the administrator to'sue on it.
Other acts of maladministration are apparent on the face of
the bill.
Appellant has not, therefore, made out such a case as would
entitle him to relief in a court of equity. Administrators are
bound to exercise such prudence, diligence, and caution in the
administration of estates, as a prudent man, looking to his own
interests, would exercise in the management of his own affairs.
See Bailey et al. v. Dilworth, 10 Smedes & Marsh. 404.
They are also required by the statutes of Mississippi, to be
prompt inreporting the insolvency of the estates of their intestates. See Bramlet v. Webb et al., 11 Smedes & Marsh. 439.
But it is said by the solicitor for the appellant, that "the
equity of this case is dependent upon the peculiar statutes of
the State of Mississippi, which require the assets of insolvent
estates to be divided among the creditors in proportion- to their
respective demands." See Hutchin~on's Miss. Code, ch. 49,
sec. 103, p. 667.
It is equally true that the statutes of Mississippi give judgment creditors a lien on all the property of defendants from the
rendition of the judgment. See Hutchinson's Miss. Code, 881,
882, 885, 890, 891, 894; Dye's Administrator v. Bartlett, 7
Howard, (Miss.) 226.
Benedict & Benedict acquired a lien on all the property of
.Benjamin J. Baldwin, deceased, in the hands of Thomas Williams, his administrator, from the rendition of their judgment
in November, 1839. This lien could not be defeated by any
voL. VIII.

10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Benedict et al.

act of the defendant, Williams. The plaintiffs in the court
below could alone by their acts raise their lien. See I Bland's
Chan. Rep. 449, 452.
Nothing subsequent could divest plaintiffs' lien without their
consent. This judgment was rendered before the appellant declared the estate insolvent. The other creditors, who had not
obtanied judgments, acquired a lien (if at all) from the time
the Court of Probates declared the estate insolvent, and not
from the death of the intestate, as insisted by counsel for appellant. See Hutchinson's Code, 673.
The plaintiffs, therefore, in the court below, acquired by
their judgment a prior lien on the estate of Baldwin over the
other creditors. A prior lien gives a prior right to satisfaction.
See Andrews v. Wilkes, 6 Howard, (Miss.) 554.
This judgment was entitled to satisfaction, to the exclusion
of all other creditors. Nor Will it do injustice to other creditors to give it such preference.
The case would not be altered if Baldwin were alive; it
would still be a prior lien. It is an advantage gained over
other creditors by the superior vigilance offlthe appellees in the
prosecution of their claim to final judgment, -an
advantage
recognized and sustained by the law.
There is no provision of the statutes of Mississippi which
operated jer se as a stay of execution on this judgment in the
court below. Nor is there any, it is believed, which would by
any fair or rational construction authorize the district judge in
enjoining it.
Section 103 of Hutchinson's Mississippi Code, pages 667,
668, relied on by appellant's counsel, provides that no suit shall
be commenced against an administrator after his intestate's estate
has been declared insolvent,,&c., &c. This section can have
no bearing on this case, because the judgment was obtained
and the suit ended before th6 estate was reported or decreed
insolvent.
Section 1, art. 2, of the same code, p. 673, is also relied on.
This section provides, that, when suits are pending against administrators, and undetermined at the time the estates of their
intestates are decreed insolvent, execution shall be stayed after
judgment, &c. This provision is equally inapplicable to this
case. This suit was determined, and judgment rendered, before appellant reported the estate of Baldwin insolvent.
Would not a decision, bringing this case within the meaning
of the above sections, (and they are the only statutes relied
on,) be an act of a legislative rather than a judicial character ?

The decree of the district judge dismissing the bill of injunc-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

111

Williams v. Benedict et al.

tion must therefore be sustained. No injustice will be done to
the other creditors. They have their remedy against the administrator and his securities on his official bond, for all acts of
maladministration, &c. See Edmundson v. Roberts, 2 Howard,
(Miss.) 822 ; Lerhr v. Tarball, 2 ib. 905; Pr6sser v. Yerby, 1
ib. 87.
Mr. JUSTICE GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question raised in this case depends on the construction of the peculiar statutes of Mississippi. It is, whether
a plaintiff who has obtained a judgment against the administrator of an intestate's estate, before it has been declared insolvent, has such a prior lien on the same as will entitle him to
issue an execution and satisfy his judgment out of the assets,
after the estate has been declared insolvent by the Orphans' or
Probate Court, and commissioners appointed for the purpose of
distributing the assets equally among all the creditors.
The, process, both mesne and final, in the District and Circuit
Courts of the United States, being conformed to those of the
different States in which they have jurisdiction, the lien of judgments on property within the limits of that jurisdiction depends, also, upon the State law, where Congress has not legislated on the subject. In some of the States, a judgment is not
a lien on lands; in others, there is a lien coextensive with the
jurisdiction of the court. In Mississippi, a judgment obtained
in his lifetime is a lien, from the time of its rendition, on all
the defendant's property; and the property of a decedent becomes liable for his debts from the time of his death. (See
Dye v. Bartlett, 7 How. (Miss.) 224.) Consequently, the lien
of a judgment obtained before defendant's death cannot be affected by a declaration of insolvency subsequently made by his
administrator. But if, at the time of the death, the fund from
which each of the creditors has an equal right to claim satisfaction is insufficient to pay all, equity requires that one should
not be permitted, by a mere race of diligence, to seize satisfac.
tion of his whole debt, at the expense of another. Hence, .P
declaration of insolvency must relate back to the death, in pr:
der that this equitable principle may have its effect. Such appears to be the policy of the legislation of Mississippi on this
subject, apparent in her statutes and the decisions of her courts.
The case of Parker v. Whiting, 6 How. (Miss.) 352, decided
in the High Court of Errors and Appeals of that State, presented the same point in a case parallel with the present.
In that case, as in this, it was contended that an administrator cannot report an estate insolvent after nine months, that

112

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Benedict et al.

being the period within which he cannot be sued; and that a
judgment obtained after that time became a lien on all the property of the deceased, which cannot be destroyed, raised, or superseded by the subsequent report of insolvency, especially
when it appeared that this insolvency might have been caused
by the maladministration of the defendant.
But that court decided that the estate of a deceased person
may be reported insolvent after the expiration of nine months
from the grant of letters of administration ; and that, when an
estate is so reported, the lien of a judgment previously obtained
against the administrator is held in abeyance, and must give
way to the general and equal lien of all the creditors which existed at the time of the death, and to which the declaration of
insolvency must relate. Also, that the action of the Probate
Court on a report of insolvency cannot be collaterally impeached ; and if the insolvency has been caused by maladministration, the remedy is by action for a devastavit, or on the administration bond.
In this exposition of the statutes of Mississippi, as given by
her courts, we fully concur; and it is conclusive of the question now under consideration.
As, therefore, the judgment obtained by the plaintiffs in the
court below did not entitle them to a prior lien, or a right of
satisfaction in preference to the other creditors of the insolvent
estate, they have no right to take in execution the property of
the deceased which the Probate Court has ordered to be sold
for the purpose of an equal distribution among all the creditors
The jurisdiction of that court has attached to the assets; they
are in gremio legis. And if the marshal were permitted to
seize them under an execution, it-would not only cause manifest injustice to be done to the rights of others, but be the occasion of an unpleasant conflict between courts of separate and
independent jurisdiction. But we wish it to be understood, that
we do not intend to express any opinion as to the right of State
legislation to compel foreign creditors, in all cases, to seek their
remedy against the estates of decedents in the State courts
alone, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States. That will present an entirely different question
from the present.
The decree of the court below dismissing uie bill must be
reversed, and a decree entered in favor of complainant continuing the injunction.
Oeder.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
-

113

The United States v. Boisdor6's Heirs.

ord from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to enter a decree iii favor of the

complainant, continuing the injunction in this cause, and for such
further proceedings, in conformity to the opinion of this court,
as to law and justice may appertain.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THE HEIRS OF BoisDon .
SAME, APPELLANTS, V. THE HEIRS OF PowERs.
SAME, APPELLANTS, v. THE HEIRS OF TURNsR.
In 1824, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at Large, 52), entitled "An act enabling the
claimants to lands within the limits of the State of Missouri and Territory of
Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims."
The seond section provided that, in "all cases, the'party against whom the jndgment or decree of the said District Court may be finally given, shall be entitled to
an appeal, within one year from the time of its rendition, to the Supreme Court
of the United States"; and the fifth section enacted that any claim which shall not
be brought by petition before the said courts within two years from the passing of
the act, or which, after being brought before the said courts, shall, on account of
the neglect or delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision within
three years, shall be for ever barred.
In 1844, Congress passed another act (5 Stat. at Large, 676), entitled "An act to provide for the adjustment of land claims within the States of Missouri, Arkansas,
and Louisiana, and in those parts of the States of Mississippi and Alabama, south
of the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Perdido
Rivers."
It enacted, "that so much of the expired act of 1824 as related to the State of Missonri be, and is hereby, revived and reenacted, and continued in force for the term
of five years, and no longer; and the provisions of that part of the aforesaid act
hereby revived and reenacted shall be, and hereby are, extended to the States of
Louisiana and Arkansas, and to so much of the States of Mississippi and Alabama as is included in the district of country south of the thirty-first degree of
north latitude, and between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers."
Tle act of 1824, revived and reenacted by the act of 1844, did not expire in five
years from the passage of the act of 1844, so far as regards appeals from the District Court to this court. It will continue in force until all the appeals regularly
brought up from the, District Courts shall be finally disposed of.

THE first two of these cases were appeals from the District
Court of lississippi. One of them, viz., The United States v.

The Heirs of Boisdor6, was the same case in which a motion to
dismiss was made at the preceding term, as reported in 7 Howard, 658.

