JANUARY TERI, 1828.

Tll

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND COMPANVY OF THE BANE OF CaLUMBIA VS. PETER HAGNER.

When no specific time for the payment of money is fixed in a contract by
which the same is to be paid by one party to the other, in judgment of
law, the same is payable on demand. 1463}
contracts for the sale of land, by which one agrees to purchase, and the
other to convey, the undertakings of the respective parties are always dependent, unless a contrary intimation clearly appears. f464}
Although many nice distinctions are to be found in the books upon the question, whether the covenants or promises of the respective parties to the
contract, are to be considered independent or dependent; yet it is evident the intimation of 'Courts have strongly favouredthe latter construction, as being obviously the most just. 1465}
In such cases, if either vendor or vendee, wish to compel the other to fulfil
his contract; he must make hispart of the agreement precedent, and can.
not proceed.against the other-, without actual performance of the agreement on his part, or a tender and refusal. 1465}
An averment of performance is always made in the declaration upon contracts containing dependent undertakings, and that averment must be
supported by proof. 1465}
The time fixed for the performance of a contract, is, at law, deemed the essence of the contract, and if the seller is not ready and able to perform
his part of the agreement on that day, the purchaser may elect to consider the contract at an end. But equity, which from its pecliarjuiisdiction is enabled to examine into the cause of delay, in completing a pu'chase, and to ascertain how far the day named was deemed material by
the parties, will, in certain cates, carry the agreement into execution, al
though the time appointed has elapsed. 1465}
It may be laid down as a rule, that, at law, to entitle the vendor to recover the.
purchase money, he must averin his declaration performance of the contract on his part, or an offer to perform, at the day specified for theper.
formaice. And this averment must be sustained by proof; unless th.
tender has been waived by the purchaser. {4671
If before the period fixed for the delivery of a deed for lands, the vendee
has declared he would not receive it, and that he intended to abandon
the contract, it may render a tender of the deed before the institutiori of
a suit unnecdssary. But this rule can never apply, except in cases wl,re
the act which is construed into a waiver, occurs prcvious to the time tbr
performance. {467}
The taking possession of property by the vendee, before conveyance, is a
circumstance from which is to b;e inferred that he considered the contract
closed, but would not deprive him of the right to relinquish the property, if the vendor could not make a title or neglected to do so. After a relinquishment for such causes, the vendee could sustain an action to recov,
er back the purchase money hadit been paid. 1468}
Where the legal title cannot be conveyed to the vendee by the vendor, and
the vendee must resort to a Court of Equity to establish his title, notwith,-

ro

456

SUPREME COURT.

(Bank of Columbia w. Hagner.)
standing a conveyance of all the right of the vendor to him, the Cour
will not compel him to pay the purchase money. it would be compelling
him to take a law s4it, instead of the land. 14681
THE plaintiffs instituted their suit in the' Circuit Court foi
the county of Washington, against the defendant, on a special
agreement to purchase two lots of ground in the city of Wash.ington. The plaintiffs to support the issuesjoined on their part,
offered in evidence certain deeds, papers and letters; the hand
writing of the parties and the delivery of the letters, at their several dates, being admitted.
John Templeman, being indebted to the plaintiffs in a large
amount, conveyed by deed, dated 31st March 1809, to Walter
Smith, in trust to secure the debt, certain lots in the city of,
Washington, the two lots alleged to hive been sold to the defendant included; the said trustee being authorized to sell, at
public sale, the property conveyed,
On the 31st of March 1821, the bank, under seal, authorized
Walter Smith to release the two lots to Jo' Templeman, and
under this authority the trustee convqyed tne property to Templemanwho by deed dated 29th April 1821, conveyed the same
to Peter Hagner, the defendant.
. The conveyance, b3 Walter Smith to Templeman, and from
Templeman to Mr. Hagner, were made by the direction of the
bink, for the purpose of vesting a title to the two lots in
.Mr. Hagner, ii execution of their part of the agreement upon
which the suit was founded, and b'efore the suit was commenced.
The-material evidence offered by the plaintiffs to establish
their claim upon Mr. Hagher, and to prove a contract made by
him, for the purchase of the two lots was dontained in a correspondence, &c. between General John Mason, the President
of the Bank, and'Mr. Hagner; commencing on the 14th May
.1817; ind ending on the 19th of May 1821, numbered from
1, to 11.
No. 1, dated 14th May 1817, letter, Peter. Hagner to General
Mason, expressed a wish to purchase the' lots, if the bank was
disposed to sell them, at a reasonable price--No. 2, from GenerarMason to Mr. Hagner, dated October 16th 1817, stated,
that the Board of'Directors had fixed the prie of the lots at
twenty-five cents per square foot-No. 3, from Mr. Hagner to
.General Masob, dated October 17th 1817, communicated an
offer of ten cents per square foot, which, b7 letter dated 17th
December 1817, No, 4, was extended to fifteen cents per square
foot-No. 5, was a memorandum sent by Mr. Hagner to Genereal Mason; to be signed by him, and which was so done, on
the 27th of April 1818- the memorandum bearine date Atril

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

457

(Bank of Columbia w. Hagner.)
25th 1818, and stating that the lots were on that day sold to
Mr. Hagner, at twenty-five cents per square foot; "payable at
'uch periods as the bank may approve."
On the 27th April 1818, No. 6, Mr. Hagner wrote to General Mason, desiring to have the payments for the lots purchased by him, at twenty-five cents per square foot, to meet his
income; and proposed to have the same divided into six quarterly payments, the first to be made on the first day of the following October; offering his notes, and asking for a deed; or if
this should not be agreed to, stating thai he would bind himself to pay the money as proposed, "and receive a bond of conveyance, conditioned to give a full title, when the money shbuld
be paid." This letter requested a return of the memorandum,
No. 5.
Upon this letter, there was written, in pencil, in the handwriting of General Mason, according to the usual practice at
the sittings of the Board of Directors, "accepted-interest
on each note, as it becomes due"--No. 7, April 27th 1818, from
General Mason to Mr. Hagner, enclosed the memorandum, No.
5, and mentions that his proposition would be submitted to the
Board.
On the 7th October, 1818, Mr. Hagner wrote to Gen. Ma-"
son, (No. 8,) stating that he was prepared to pay the instalment falling due on the 1st October, and requesting a bond of
conveyance. December 26, 1820, (No. 9,) Mr. Hagner, by letter, states that a long time had passed since -his purchasewithout the title to the lots having been completed; and the bank
continues without authority to convey. 'The bank at the time
of the purchase had no. authority to sell at private sale, and
must have made title by a circuitous and doubtful process of
a public auction, at which some one might have interposed
and obtained the lot. That the bank might have held him.
bound to take the property, although not reciprocally bound;
and that the answer of the President of the Bank, was not cert-ain and absolute, but was referred to and made dependent on
the determhination of the Board of Directors. Under these,
and other circumstances stated by him, he: communicates his
determination'to relinquish the purchase.
On' the 8th May 1821, Mr. Hagner notifies General Mason,,
(No. 10,) that he considers his agreement to purchase. the lots
void, and that -he has 'no claim or title to them.. ,In reply to
this letter, upon the 19th May 1821, (No. 11.) Gen. Mason.
says:"You will no doubt, Sir, recollect a conversation I had with
you-soon after-the reception of your letter of the 26th December last, when I informed you that that letter had been submitVOL. I.
.lM

458

alUPREME COURT.

(Bank of Columbia vs. Hagner.)
ted to the Board of Directors, and ihat it had been determined
that the purchase by you of the lotS in question being considered in all respects a firm and bonafde purchase, it would not be
relinqcished, and that measures would be taken to make you a
title valid in law.. I am now instructed to inform you that those
measures have been takeun-thkt deeds fo that effect have been
made by the proper 3parties,*ivhich are expected to be soon received here, when they will be tendered you, and'a compliance
with your part of the contract expected."
Evidence was also given, on the part of the plaintiffs, to prove
the entire insolvency of John Templeman, and the non-pkvment by him of any part of His debt to theplaintiffs. That on
the 28th September 1821, a tender of the deeds already mentioned was made by .an officer of the bank to the defendant,
who refused to accept-themi The deed of Templeman to Hagher, dated 3d of April 1821, was recorded by the consent without .prejudice.
A witness also proved, that in- the month of June 1818, he
was employed by defendant to enclose the two lots in question,
and did enclose them vith a board, fence: that before encloSing the said lots, an old house was pulled down by order of the
defendant, and some part of the materials used in making the
said enclosure; that some time afterwards, the witness was employed by defendant to pull down the fence, which was done,
and the lots left open; that the said house was a small frame
house, very old, and in bad repair; that it had been inhabited some time before, but was not in tenantable order and condition; that if the house had been put in good repair, which
would have cost half as much as building a new house of the
same size and kind, it would have rinted for about three dollars per month.
The clerk of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia certified that there was no judgment in force on the
30th-day of March 1821 against John Templeman, and proof
was n'qo made that the taxes on the two lots of ground from
1809 to 1821 inclusive, -had been assessed to, and paid by
the Bank of Columbia.
On the 19th of May 1821, the situation of the lots was examined by order of the President of the bank, and it was
found "that the fence had been removed apparently that
spring, and the lots appeared to have been cultivated the fall
before."
Upon this evidence the defendant, by his counsel, prayed the
Court to instruct the-jury, that upon the evidence, so given on
the part of the plaintiffs, though found by the jury to be true
as above stated, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

45P

(Bank of Cohinbia vs. Hagner.)
action the purchase money for the lots in the declaration mentioned; which instruction the Court gave as prayed.
The plaintiffs prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that upon the evidence the plaintit were entitled to recover such
damages, as the jury should think the plaintiffs had sustained
by the defendant refusing to comply with the contract stated
in the declaration, if they should believe from the said evidence that the defendant consented to the delay on the part of
the plaintiffs to make a deed, or give a bond of coniVeyance for
the lots mentioned in the declaration; which instruction the
Court refused to give.
A bill of exception was then tendered, by the counsel of the
plaintiffs, to the instructions given by the Court on the prayers
of the counsel for the defendant, and also to their refusal by
thd Court to give the instructions to the jury prayed for by the
counsel for the plaintiffs.
While the bill of exceptions was preparing, the following
additional evidence was discovered by the plaintiffs, and was
offered and read to the jury:A deed, .commissioners to J. Templeman 19th September
1801. Liber G. fol. 490.
A deed, Templeman & Stoddart to Bank of Columbia, 19th
January 1802. H. S86.
A deed, Stoddart to Templeman, 25th September 1804.
M. No. 19, 151.
A deed, Templeman to Bank of Columbia, 7th March 1807,
No. 18, 846.
The deed of 7th March, 1807, conveyed inter aliato the plaintiffs the two lots alleged to have been sold by Mr. Hagner, and
authorized the bank to sell the property vested in them by privafe'or public sale.
This evidence being exhibited, the-Court adhered to the instructions and opinions given to the jury, and an additional exception was taken thereto by the counsel for the plaintiffs, and
a writ of error was prosecuted to this Court.
For. the plaintiffs in error it was contended, that upon the evidence, the plaitiffs were entitled to recover, and that the Circuit Court ought to have so instructed the jury.
Mr. Key for the plaintiffs.
1. A contract for. the purchase and sale of the two lots of
ground was made between Mr. Hagner and the Bank of Columbia, the President of the bank having full authority-from the
Board of Directors to conclude the same. That the defendant
had no evidence of the authority of the President to make
the contract was his own neglect, and he dealt with him as the
agent of the Lank, and under the contract took possession
of the property,

460

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of Columbia vs. Hagner.)

By the contract the defendant Was to pay for the lots, according to his proposition in the letter of the 27th of April
1817, and the acceptance "noted in pencil" is theagreement in
writing by the bank to the terms proposed, of *hich, sufficient evidence exists, in addition to the circumstances of the defendant's entry on the lots, showing that he knew of the agreement of the bank.
I- The contract subsisted down to the period of the defendant's refusal to fulfil it.
It subsisted on the 7th October 1818, as shown by his letter
referring to his propositions' of payment upon the 27th April
1817; by his remaining in possession, and this continued until
January 1820, when all the payments became due, no application having been made to-complete the title, although it may
be inferred that he knew some measures would be required for
the purpose. The acquiescence of the defendant in the delay,
bound him during its existence.
S. When on the 26th December 1820, he communicated his
determination to withdraw from the contract, he had no such
privilege. He was bound to wait, if the title was not incur-

ably bad, a reasonable time until it should be completedl.
Sugden, 25,-S--4--5. If aware of the difficulties in the title
arising from the sale made under the deed of' trust by Walter
Smith, by which a public and not a private sale of the lots was
to be made, he Should have tendered performance on his part
and demanded performance of the vendors. Instead of this, if
by that letter he intended to renounce at once,-this could not
be done, legally, unless in the case of an incurably bad title4
The formal relinquishment is made on the 8th of May 1821,
and this being the first complaint of non-performance by the
bank, it was promptly attended t. Cited &cgden on Vendors,
157. 249-50-51--5---4, 85. The refusal on the part of the defendant made a tender of performance by the plaitiffs, previous to a bill of specific performance on this action; unnecessary. Sugden, 162, 168. 8 Douglass, 684. But no such tender
"
"
was necessary. &tugden on Vendors, 160, 4164.
The bank did offer a good title, as is shown by the evidence
Ter'ipleman had no ultimate interest; it was released, andl his
deed made with the consent of the bank, gave a good title.
Those who- are entitled to the money, which may arise front
the sale of an estate are the substantial owners of it. 5Sugden,
800. To sustain this suit, it is. sufficient if a good title can
now be made, and this can be done under the deed of 7th
March, 1807. Sugden, 250-1.
Mr. Jones for the defendant.
1: There never was a complete contract entered into- by Mr.

JANUARY, TERM, 188.

461

(Bank of EColumbla'w. Hagner.)
Hagner. He made propositions, and they were never fully accepted by the bank; nor was he at any time informed of the
order, or determination 6f the bank thereon. It was the duty of
the plaintiffs, when the money became due, to have tendered a
performance of their contract, and not to have postponed the
same until September, 1821, the day before the action was
instituted.
No purchaser is bound to take aii equitable title, and in
this case the bank had not a legal title under the 'conveyance
to Walter Smith, under which the title tendered was derived.
The title must be complete at the time of performance of the
contract. .Sugden on Vendors, 158.
When the original security is in form of a trust, it must remain so until the trust is executed, by a sale of the property
in the time prescribed.
A Court of Equity would not have confirmed the title to the
defendant, they would have said to the trustee Walter Smith,
go and execute your trust.
As to the title of the 28th of September 18!1, tendered to
the defendant, it was not a valid title. By the law of*Maryland, no land can be conveyed by a power of attorney; it was
not made by the bank, and it passed through Templeman, who
was insolvent. The defendant could not be compelled to acrqept such a title. There is no authority to be found by which
a vendor can call on another to complete a title which he contracted to give.
Entry on the property does not furnish any thing but a presumption,' that a title would be made; and this was never
done.
As to the time which will be allowed for completing a title,
the following cases were cited. Sugden on Vend. 284. 1 Marshall, 583. 6 Taunt. 259. 5 Bast, 198. 1 Smith'&'Rep. 390.
The plaintiffs after the case had gone to the jury, exhibited a
new title. The first was as a creditori and the conveyance was
to be derived from the trustee; the second title was under an
old deed, by which the bank was authorized to convey. The
deed of 1807 was controlled 'or revoked by the subsequent
deed; and notwithstanding that deed, the trustee alone could
make the sale. .1 Mrshall, 285. 5 Taunt. 28. 3 Bos. 4. Pull.
181.
Mr. Justice THouPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.This case comes up from the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia, upon a writ of error. It was an -action against
the defendant Hagner, on a special agreement to purchase of
'the plaintiffs two lots of ground in the city of Washington. The

46!Z

SUPREME COURT.

(Baink of Columbia vs. Ilagner.)
Court below, on the prayer of the defendant, instructed the
jury, that upon the evidence given on the part of the plaintiffs,
though found by them to be true, would not entitle the plaintiffs to recover, in this action, the purchase money for the lots
mentioned in- the declaration. Under which instruction a verdict was found, and judgment rendered for the defendant; to
reverse which, -the present writ of error has been brought.
The special agreement as stated in the declaration, is substantially, that on the 25th of April, 1818, it was agreed between the plaintiffs and defendant, that the plaintiffs -should
sell to defendant lots -No. I and 2, in square 141, in the city
of Washington, the property of the plaintiffs, at and for
the price of twenty-five cents, for each and every squard foot,
contained in said lots; and that defendant agreed to purchase
the lots, at that price, and to pay for the same, when thereunto required by the plaintiffs; setting out the quantity of land
and amount of the purchase money, with an averment, that the
plaintiffs had full power and authority to make the sale, and
that they then were, and ever since have been fully competent and
able to make and deliver, a good and sufficient deed, conveying to the defendant a good title in fee, to said lots. And that
afterwards, on or about the 8th day of May, 1821, the defendant declared and gave notice to the plaintiffs, that he considered the agreement and sale void, and would not comply with
the same, and discharged the plaintiffs from making or causing
to be made any deed of conveyance, and the plaintiffs further
aver, that afterwards, on the 28th Settember, in the year 1821,
they being willing and able to make a conveyance of a good title to said lots, offered so to do, and requested the'defendant
to pay the purchase money, according to the terms of the
agreement, which he refused to do. The first inquiry that naturally arises, is, whether any contract was in point of fact
concluded between the parties. It has been objected, that it
does not appear that General Mason, through whom, in behalf
of the bank, the negotiation was carried on, had any authority
for that purpose. There is certainly great plausibility in this objection. There is no evidence, expressly showing such authority.
But this perhaps ought to be considered as having been waived
by the defendant; as that part of the correspondence from which
the contract is supposed to be collected, was carried on with
him in his official character of President of the Bank. And the
defendant, at no tiine, puts his objection to carrying the contract, (if any was made,) into execution, upon the want of authority in Mason, to make it.
The contract is alleged, in the declaration, to have been
made on the 25th of April, 1818, and the letter of Mason, of

JANUARY TERMK 1828.

4.6S

(Bank of Columbia w. Hagner.)
that date, and signed by him, as President.of the Bank, has
been considered as closing the contract. This letter is as follows:"I have this day sold to Peter Hagner, of Washington City,
lots No. l and 2 in square 141 in Washington City, and belonging to the Bank of Columbia, at twenty-five cents per square
foot; payable at such periods is the bank may approve."
The time of p~ayment being left to the option of the bank,
it is said, that in Judgment of law, the purchase money was
payable on demind; .and this is no doubt true, if the bank had
then closed the negotiation, and apprized the defendant that
such was their determination, as. to the payment of the pur-"
chase money. But this was not done; and the terms of the
letter look to, and necessarily imply some further negotiation.
The payment was to be at such periods as the bank may approve. It was therefore clearly understood to be payable, by
instalments ; and the periods to be approved by the banl , which
-would seem-to leave the subject open to propositions to be
made on the part of Hagner, and submitted to the bank to be approved. And that such was the understanding of the parties,
is evident from the letter written by the defendant, two day:,
after, April 27th, 1818, to the President of.the bank, as follows :
"It would be desirable to me to have the payments to make
for the Iota No. 1 and 2 in square 141 purchased of you by me
on Saturday, at 25 cents per square footgin proportions, and at
periods, to be met by my income. I accordingly propose that the
whole amount of the purchase money be divided into six quarterly payments, the first to be on the first of October next. If
this be approved by the bank, I will give my notes, apd I presume the bank will have no objectiois to gieve me a deed. If
however it be preferred, I will'bind myself to pay the noney, at
the times 'stated above, and, receive a bond of conveyance,
conditional to give a full title, when the money is paid. Do
me the fgvour to send me, in return, a memorandudi of. our
agreement on Saturday." Upbn .this letter was written in
pencil, by Genea'] Mason "accept. interest on each note as it
becomes due."
Whatever, therefore, might have been the right of the bank
to have closed tIe contract, in the terms of the letter of the
25th of April, it was certainly waived by an acceptance of the
modification, contained in the letter of the 27th of April. Nor
would any contraft seem.to be closed by this'letter. It contained two distinct propositions, by the defendant; the one to give
his notes for the purchase money, payable in six quarterly payments, the first to be made on the 1st of October then next, and

464

SUPREMNE COURT.

(Bank of Columbia vi. Hagner.)
take- 4 deed from 'the bank:i the other, to bind himself to pay
the money at the times stated, and take a bond for a deed, to
be given when the whole purchase money was paid. This ne - "
cessarily required some further answer from the plaintiffs, not)
6nly to sigfify their election between the propositions; but tb
do some further act, in confirmation of such election. Either to
give the deed, or a bond for the deed. The note in pencil, made
by the President of the bank, upon the letter, could not ffirly
be understood, as implying any thing more than an acceptance
of the proposition to pay by instalments; and settling the terms
of the contract, to be concluded between theparties upon the
bank's electing, which proposition to accept, as to the mode'of
concluding the contract. But the contract could not be said to
be constimmated, until such election was made and the writings executed..
Here the matter rested for nearly three years, without any
.thing being done7 on the part of the'bank to close the contractr;
or to intimate, that they considered any. contract in force, ih
relation" to the purchase-; and, that, not until after the defentaant had given them formal notice, that he considered the agreement void, and at an end.
And he certainly had very good reason to think the banl ' so
considered it. Or that no agreement had in fact ever been r Icluded. For the defendant by his letter of the 7thof Octooer
1818, ga~e the plaintiffs notice that he was prepared to pay the
first instalment; which according to his proposition fell due
on the first of that month; and requesting of them a bond for a
deed; to which no answer appears to have been given, nor any
one of the instruments paid or demanded; although-the whole
of January 1820,
purchase nmney became payable by the -first
according to the proposed terms of the contract.
Upon this view of the case, it is at least very doubtful,
whether any contract was concluded between the parties; and
if the cause turned upon this point alone, the judgment of the
Court below would be'affirmed, by a divisibn of opinion in this
Court. But, as there are other.questions in the cause, the determination of which leads to the same result, and upon which
no difference of opinion exists, it has been thought proper to
notice them.
Admitting, then, that a contract was entered into-Detween
the parties, the -inquiry arises, whethe- the plaintiffs have
shown such a performance on their part, as .will entitle them,
in a'Court of Law, to sustain -an action for the recovery of the
purchase money.
In contracts of this description, the undertakings of the re.
spective parties are always considered depenaent, unless a con-

JANUA .Y TERM, 18298.

465

(Bank of Columbia vs. Hagner.)
trary intenti6n clearly appears. A different construction would.
in many cases lead to the greatest injustice, and a purchaser
might have payment of the consideration money enforced upon
him, and yet be disabled from procuring the property, ror
which he paid it.
Althohgh many nice distinctions are to be found in the
books, upon the question, whether the covenants or promises
of the respective parties to, the contract, are to be consi.dered indeliendent, or dependent-; yet it is evident,':th" in-clination of'Courts has strongly favoured the latter construction, .as being obviously the most just. The zeller ought not
td be compelled to part with his property, without receiving
the considei'ation: nor the purchaser to part with his money,
without an equivalent in return. Hence, in such cases, if either
a vendor or a vendeewish to compel the other to fulfil his contract, he must make his part of the agreement precedent, and
cannot proceed against the other without an actual performance of'the agreement, on his part, or' a. tender and refusal.
And an averment to that effdct, is always made in the declaration upon contracts, containing dependent undertakings, and
that averment must be supported by proof. And that the one
xow before the Court, must be considered a contract of this
description, cannot admit of a doubt.
The plaintiffs, however, aver that they were willing and able
to make a conveyance of a good- title, and 'offered so to do on
the. 28th day of September 1821 ; but this was only the day before the suit was commenced, and nearly two years after the
time fixed for performance; and they set up', as an excuse for
the delay in making the tender of a deed, the notice received
from the defehdant on the 8th of May 1821; that he 'considered the- greement void, and refused to carry it into effect.
The time fixed for performance, is, at law, deemed of the essence of the contract. And if the seller is not ready and 'able to
perform his part of the agreement, onthat day, the purchaser'
may el=ct to consider the contract at an end. In Sugden's Law
of Vendors, 275, it is said-" The general opinion has always
been, that the day fixed -was imperative on the parties at law.
This was so laid down by Lord Kenyon, and has never been
doubted in practice. The contrary rule Would lead' to endless
difficulties, if in every case it must-be referred to a jury to consider, whether the act.was done within a reasonable time; alid
the precise contract of the parties would be avoided, in order
to introduce an uncertain rule, which would lead to endless litigation. But equity, which from its peculiar jurisdiction, is
enabled to examine into the cause of delay in completing apurchase, .andto ascertain how far the day named was deerned material by the -parties, will, in certain cases carry the agreeVOL.L

a N

466

SUPREMI'

COURI.

(Bank of.Colunmbia vs. Hagner.)
ment into execution, although th6 time appointed ha elapsed.
But he justly adds, perhaps there is cause to regret, that evcn
equity assumed this power of dispensing with the literal performance of contracts, in cases like those.
It was urged. t the bar, that the rule on this subject was
the saine at law and in equity, and the case of Thompson vs.
Miles, (1E8p. Ca. 184,) was referred to in support of this proposition. And it is 'true, that some of the remaks which fell
from Lord Kenyon, on the trial of that cause, would seem to
countenance such an opinion. Fdr he permittcd the seller to
prove, he had a good title; although the power of making that
title was attained after the action was rought.
This was certainly, going great len,. s for a Court of Law.
But it ought to be observed, that in t. t case no time appears
to have been fixed for completing the contract; Iand an application for the title had not been made by'the purchaser, previous to the action brought by the vendor fot breach of the contract; which it seems was considered necessary in that case.
But, that Lord Kenyon did not mean to be understood, asholding that the evidence would have been admissible to sustain the action, if there had been a time fixed for the performance of the contract, is very evident from his doctrine in
numerous other cases before him. Thus in the case of Bury
vs. Young (9 Esp. Ca. 641,) he says, a seller of an estate ought
to be prepared to produce his title deeds at the particular day.
That a Court of Equity will under*particular circumstances,
enlarge the time. And in the cdse of Cornish vs. Rowley (1
Wheaton Selwyn 137,) the action was for money had and received, to recover back money paid as a deposit on an agreement for the purchase of an estate, the defendant having failed
to make out a good title, on the day when the purchase was to
be completed; the counsdl for the defendant said they were
ready to make out a good title; to which Lord Kenyon replied.
"As to the sentiments I have long entertained relative to the
purchase of rea' estate, I find no reason for receding from thell;
they have been confirmed by conversing with those whose authority is much greater than mine. The vendor must be prepared to make out a good title on the day when the title is to
become completed:" Oil which the counsel for the defendant
'asked, "Do I understand your Lordship .to say, -that though
the defendant can now f ake out-a good title, yet, as that title
did riot form a part of-the abstract, the plaintiffimay avail himWsf-of that circumstance." To -which Lord Kenyon answered,
IIe cortainly may; and ax-6id the contract :" and he directed
the ry tofind a verdict fDr the plaintiff, for the deposit money
Iinthe case-of Davis vg. Hone (2 c&h.-Lef. 347) Lord Redesa Court of' Equity frdquently),decrecs spccific per
dale sd,

JANUARY

ERM, 1828.

467

(Bank of Col umbla vs. Hagner.)
formance, when the action at law has been* lost by the default
of the very party seeking the specific performance. To sustain
an action at law, performance must be averred, according to
the very terms of the contract. And again in the case of Len-'
non vs. Napper (2 Seh. 4"Lef. 684) he reiterates the same
doctrine, that Courts of Equity in all cases of contracts for
the habit of relieving, where the party from
lands, have been in.
his own neglect, had suffered a lapse of time, and from that
and other circumstances, could not sustaih an action to recover damages, at law; for, at la%, the party plaintiff, must have
strictly performed his part of the contract. And in the case of
Wilde vs. Fort, and others, (4 Tunt. 334,) the rule is recognised, that if the vendor-of -an estate at auction, does-not show a clear title by the day specified, the purchaser may recover
back his deposit, and rescind the contract; without waiting
to see whether the vendor may ultimately be able to establish
a good title or not. A purchaser is not bound to accept a
doubtful title.
From these authorities if may be laid down as a settled rule,
that at law, to entitle the vendor to recover the purchase money, he must aver in his declaration a performance of the contract on his part, or an offer to perform at the day specified for
the performance. And this averment must be sustained by
proofsg, unless the tender has been waived by the purchaser.
The time fixed for the performance of the contract, in this
•case, must be understood to have been the 1st of January 1820.
The payment of the consideration money was to have been
completed.on that day, and no part of it having been paid, the
defendant had a right to abandon his contract, unless the plaintiffs were' then ready and offered to perform, on their part, of
which there was no evidence, whatever, offered upon the trial.
They have attempted, however, to show, that a tende of a
deed was rendered unnecessary, by reason of the letter of the
defendant of the 8th of May 1821; in which he gave notice of
rescinding the contract But this .letter can have no such effect. It was written sixteen months after the time fixed for the
delivery of the deed, and when the defendant had a right to
rescind the contract. If before the period had arrived, when
the deed was to be delivered, the defendant had declared hc
would not receive it, and that he intended to abandon the contract, it might have dispensed with the necessity of a tender,
as the conduct of the defendant might in such case, have prevented the act from being done; and he wlo prevents a thing
from being done, shall never be permitted to avail himself" of
the non-performance, which he himself has occasioned. But
that rule can never apply, except in cases where the act which

46a.

SUPREME COURT.

(Bank of Coluinbia vo, Hagner.)
is construed into a waiver, occurs previous to the time fixed
for perfomance.
The possession taken of the 16ts by the defendant, could; at
most, only, be considered a circumstance frbm which to infer,
that he considered the contract, closed; but could not deprive
him of the right of relinquishing it, and restoring the possession, if the plaintiffs were unable to make a title to him, or
neglected to do it. The possession wastaken, doubtless, under
a belief ihat the contract would be performed by the plaintiffs,
and a full title conveyed to him; but if the contract was unexecuted, the defendant had a right to disaffirm it, and restore the,
possession; and would have sustained an action to recover
back the purchase money, had it been paid. (&Sug. on Vend. M78.
183, and cases there cited.)
The plaintiffs have therefore clearly'failed to -how such a
performance, on their part, as to entitle. them, in a Court of
Law, to call upon the defendant for payment of the purchase
money.
But admitting, that fio objection in point of time lay to the
tender of the deeds, the day before the commencement of the
present action; no title was thereby conveyed to the defendant,

or at all events, not such a one as he would at any time have
been bound to accept. It was a title derived from.John Templeman, under the deed of the Slst of March'1809. Whereas
Templeiman had previously conveyed the same lots to the
plaintiffs, by his deed of 7th of 'March 1807, in trust, with authority to sell the ,same for the payment of a debt, due to the
ban, and-to pay over to him the supplies; if any there should
be. The legal title to these lots'is therefore still in the bank,
and may be subject to the trust declared in the deed, from any
thing, that appeared upon the trial.- And to allow the bank to
recover the purchase mQney, and turn the defendant over to a
Court of Chancery, t. obtain:. a title, would be going farther
thdn any known principles in Courts. of. Law will warrant; no
act whatever having been done by the plaintiffs, to transfer to
the defendant the.title vested in them under the deed of 1807.'
To substantiate the present action under such circumstances,
would be compelling the defendant to take a law-suit, instead
of the land, for which he contracted.
Judgment afflrmned, with co :

