JANUARY TERM; f828.

GEORGE R. GAITHER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. THE FARMERS
AND MECHANICS BAN, 0F GEORGETOWN, (FOR THE UgE Or
THOMAS CoRcoRniAN,) DEFENDANTS IN -ERROR.
0. & Co. discounted their notes with the F. and M. Bank of Georgetown, at
thirty days; and, in lieu ofmoney,,they stipulated to take the post notes
of the bank, payable at a future day, without interest, while post notes
were at a discount of one and one half per cent. in the market, at the time
of the transaction. Such a contract is usurious. The endorsement of a
romissorynote of a stranger to the transaction, which was passed to the
ank as a collateral security for the usurious loan, -although the.note itself is not tainted With the usury, yet the endorsement is void and passes.
no property to the bank, in the note; and the subsequent paytnent ofthe
original note, for which'the security was given, and the repayment of the
sum received as usury, will not give legality to the transaction. 143, 441
When an action is in its erigin instituted in the name of A, for the use'of B,
the ceuui que use, is, by the law of Maryland, regarded as the xeal party
to the suit. 142}
If a note be free from usury in its origin, no subsequent usurious transactions respectiri it, can affect it with the taint of usury, although an en.
dorser of the note, whose property in it was acquired through a usurious
transaction, may not be able to maintain a suit upon it. 1431
The Act of Assembly of Maryland, declares "all bonds, contracts, and as.
sumuces whatever, taken on an usurious contract, to be utterly void."
And the endorsement of a promissory note, for a usurious consideration,
is a contract within the statute, and was void. {43}

THIS suit was instituted by the defend-ants in error, against
George R. Gaither, as the drawer "f a promissory note,
dated Georgetown, 24th July 1822,. for 113 dollars 96 cents;
payable six months after date, to the order of W. W. Corcorran & Co. Endorsers, WV. XV. Corcorran & Co., and
Thomas CorcQrran. Before the swearing of the -jury. in the
case, it was stated; by the counsel of both plaintiff and defend-"
ant, to, one of the Judges of the Court; who,.being a stockholder in the bank, objected to sitting in the case;- and the
same was also started th the Court, before the jury was sworn;
that. the bank was not interested:in the event of the cause;
and, on the trial, it was also shown to the Court, by the clerk,
that this suit, standing on the docket in the name of the
bank, was, by direction of the plaintiff, on. the morning of,
and jhst before the cause was called for trial, entered for
the use of Thomas Corcorran; and the jury were sworn to
try the cause standing on the docket,-to the use of Thomas
Corcorran.
NV. V. Corcorran & Co., merchants of.Alexandria, were in
-the frequent receipt of large discounts from the bank, upon
their own notes, endorsed by Thomas Corcorfan, for Wvhich

38

SUPREME COURT.

(Gaither vs.The Farmers & Me~hanics Bank of'Georgetown.)
other notes payable to them, were, from time to time, deposited in bank, as collateral securities for the notes discounted;
which collateral notes, were kept in deposit by the bank, and,
as collected, were passed to the credit of the borrowers; and
the collateral notes, a short time before they became due, were
so entered in the deposit book of the bank, as that the bank
became the colletctors ubn their own account, of their respective amounts, to be appropriated as stated.
The note of the plaintiff in error was treated in this manner;
and, before it became due and was protested, it had bien entered on the deposit book of the bank, and had remained in possession of the bank, until the day-of the trial of the cause.
The discounts of the bank for W. W. Corcorran R Co., were
not, generally, to a large extent in cashi; but When large discounts were made, it was with an understanding, that the
proceeds of the same should be -received in post notes, having
some time to runi without any rebate, for the time being allowed by the bank, but-the Uank. retaining the usual discount of
six per cent. per annum, on the amoui t of the discounts; and
the post notes were made payable at var ious periods, from twenty to nindty days, but most generally payable when the note
discounted, on the note received, as a collateral securit9, became due, Th- amount of discounts received by W. W. Corcorran & Co., from the 24thof July 1820 to the 22d of February 1823, was 77,732 dollars; and, during that time, the post.
notes issued for their use, by the bank, exceeded 59,000 dollars.
The post notes, at the time they were received, were at a dis"
dount of one per cent. per month in the market; and some of
those received.'by W. W. Corcorran S Co. were sold at that
'rate. The bank always held the note of the defendant below,
as a collateral security for the notes discounted for W. W. Corcorran & Co.; and th defendant paid to the bank, on the Ist
day of February 1823, 500 dollars, on account of the note.
Within two days of the trial, when the bank having collected
'as-much money as reduced the debt due by W W. Corcorran
& Co.to a small'sum; they ordered the suit to be marked for
the use of Thomas Corcorran, under authority of an order,
dated February 17th 1823, signed by W. W. Corcorran & Co.,
"to deliver to hi6 what notes of theirs might remain in possession of -the bank, after the debt due by them, for which they
weie left as collateral security, should be paid."
The defenaant below, also proved,.that the name of Thomas
Corcorran was not upon the note when it was pas.ed to the
bank, nor until after the note became due; and he produced,
and offered in evidence to set off the promissory notes of NV.
V. Corcorran & Co., which had been transferred to him,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

39

(Gaither v. The-Farmers & Mechanics Bank of Georgetown.)
by the payee thereof, after the note upon which this suit was
brought had been transferred to -the bank, but before this
suit-was brought, and before theyfell due, which was after the
17th of February 1823.
The plaintiff belw, offered W. S. Nicholls, admitted to be
one of the stockholders of the bank, as a witness, who was objected to, as being interested in the event of the suit; but the
Court overruled the objection, and he was sworn and examined.
The defendants prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that, if
they believed the -evidence of the transaction between the
bank and W. W. Corcorran & Co. were usurious, the plaintiff
could not recover; which instruction the Court refused to give.
The Court refused to suffer the defendants to give the evidence
of set off, which they proposed to exhibit. To these decisions
of the Court, a bill of exceptions was tendered, and the case
was brought up to this Court by writ pf error.
Mr. Taylor, and Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error.The admission of W.- S. Nicholls as a witness, was erroneous, on two grounds.-1. He was interested iii the event of the suit;-2. He was
one of the parties, plaintiff, on the record, he being a-stockholder in the bank.
1. The suit was originally brought for the use of. the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, and the bank is responsible for
the costs of suit, to "which the witness will, as a stockholder,
be obliged to contribute, on the failure of the suit. 2 Camp.
:354. Phillips's Evd. 57. Under the law of, Maryland, the
party to whose use'the suit may be brought, is liable -for costs;
but he is only a security for the costs with the- nominal plaintiff. The declaration of the counsel; that the bank had-no interest in the cause, was made in order to induce the judge, who
was a stockholder, to sit, and whose high character; placed
him above theinfluence of interest. It was not intended -to authorize the introduction of an interested witness, as to the effect of the declaration of parties or Counsel. 1 Stark. Pt. 4.
84.
2. If this suit can be sustained, it must. be upon a legal
title of the Bank in the note; and at the note was made payable
to V. XV. Corcorran & Co., they. :must have endorsed. it to
the Bank,, in the course of their transactions With the'Bank.
and for an usurious consideration. The facts-make-out a case
fron whici the-jury might have presumed usury, and there is
nothing which will prevent the plaintiff in error from vailiwi
himself of this defence. They show that the notes of W, WCorcorran.& Co.' ivere discounted by the Bank, and no, moneypaid for them, ,but the proceeds of the discount were paid
in post notes, generally -payable -- hen tM: notes' discounted

40

'SUPREME COURT.
(Gaither vs. The Farmers & Mechanics Bank of Georgetown.)

by the Bank became due, and upon which no rebate or reduction was made for the times the notes had to run. In the course
of these transactions and as' a part,of them, the note of
the plaintiff in error, was endorsed over to the Bank by the
borrowers upon these usurious contracts. This was usury.
Chilly on'Bills, (Philadelphia edition, 1821,) 112. The statute .makes the contract upon which, usury is taken, void ;
and no title can be obtained under it.. It is not the validity
of the note which is questioned, but that of the transfer of
the note by the endorsement. The plaintiff in error is liable to
pay the note, but not to those who claim under an invalid
transfer of it; no one can claim under such an endorsement.
1 Starke's'Reports, 385; Chitty, 105, 692. The Bank having
held the note under an invalid transfer, and instituted a suit
upon it, the case cannot be altered, as to the right of the
person to whose use it is marked. This change in the suit does
not alter the relations of the parties, and give a right to the
cestui que use which the plaintiffs in the suit did not possess.
The whole of the evidence shows that the Bank held the note
for their own use. That it became theirs, through the usurious dealings with IV. W. Corcorran 8c Co. and they could pass
no -right In it to any person.
3. Upon the evidence, the set-off ought to have been -admitted. The law of Virginia authorizes a set-off to be allowed in
such a case.
A set-off is allowed against the party really
claiming in the suit, although another may be nominally the
plaintiff. Chity, 12. 1 Y. Rep. 39. 4 . Rij'. 341. 7 T. Rep.
663. 16 East, 36.
Jones & Coxe, for the defendants ii error.,
The question as to the interest of the Bank in the event of
the suit, and therefore of the compelling of W. S. Nicholls,
as a witness, was closed by the declarations of the counsel,
Nefore the cause came 6n for' trial, The -counsel had power
to bind the parties by their admission, and the Court below
was bound to consider any thing cone to release the interest of
the Bank that §ould be done. The real party to the suit was
the cestuique use, and by a court of law he would be so treated ; and he. has full power over the cause, in the same manner as if he was the only party on the record. As to the nature of the interest of a witness who is nominal plaintiff,
4 Stark, 751. 770. 775, 776. When a c6rporation can be a
witness. 4 Starl.. 1061. 426. By the laws of Maryland, 1796,
chap. 43, sec. 13. the party for whose use the suit is marked, is liable to costs. I act of 1;d94, chap. 54, sec. 10.
The Bank held the note of Gaither, as trustees for V. IV.
Cororran 'S Co., and the stockholders would have no inter esf in the same.

JANUARY TERM, 189M.

41

(Gaither is. The Farmers & Mechanics Bank of Georgetown.)
2. If there was usury between W. W. Corcorran & Co. and
the Bank, it cannot affect the claim, in this suit. An usurious
transaction between the drawer of a note and the.epdorsee, will
not discharge the drawer; and the only danger to which he
would be exposed, might be that of a double'recovery. 1st, by
the drawer, who had not legally passed away the note, and 2d,
by the usurious endorsee.
The law is settled, that the usury must affect the original
,contract, and will not affect collateral matters growing out-of
it. When given originally for an usurious consideration, all
are affected by it; but the usury must have attached to the
instrument itself, and it will not affect one given in lieu of it to
a person who was ignorant of the usury at the inception of the
first contract. 3 Esp. 92. 8 T. Rep. 390. 1 Camp. 165, in note.
Philadelphia edition of Chitty on Bills, of 1817, page 95.
S. The note was never the property of the Bank, it haying been deposited as a, collateral security for notes drawn by
W. W. Corcorran & Co. and endorsed by Thomas.Corcorran.
The note was not deposited in reference to any particular negotiation, but as a security generally; and the right of the
Bank to it, if any existed, was not affected by subsequent transActions, although usurious. Ord on Usury, 104.
It was not the subject
4. The set-off was not admissible.
of notice or plea-and the interest of Thomas Corcorran.had
attached, before any of the claims of the plaintiff in error
arose.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of.the Court.The plaintiff here was defendant in the Court below, to an
action instituted by the Farmers and Mechanics Bank of
Georgetown, on a note made by him to W. NV. Corcorran &
Co. and by them endorsed in blank to the Bank.
The record makes out a case for this Court, of which the
following is a summary: That W. V. Corcorran & Co. discounted their 3in notes with this Bank, at thirty days the Bank
expressly stipulating, that in lieu of money they should receive
what they call a post note of their own, payable at a future
day, without interest. The evidence would make out that the"
post notes given for this discounted note, were at thirty-fivw! days
after date; that it is, two days after the discounted note fell due
so that in fact there was no advance of money, although an interest of six per cent. per annum, was taken from the Corcor.
rans, and the post notes of the Bank were proved to be at a discount of one per cent. making one and a half per cent. for-thirty
days, or eighteen per cent. per annum. The note on which this
suit was instituted, was passed to the Bank as a collateral security
for the discounted note, and was altogether unaffected Nvifh
F
Voi,. L

42

SUPREME COURT.

(Gaither w. The Farmers & Mechanics Dank of Georgetown.)
usury ii its origin. The ground on which the right of the
'Bank is resisted, is, not that Gaither is discharged from hin
cb',tract with W. W. Corcorran & Co., but that the endorsement to the plaintiff below, having been made to secure a note
given on an usurious contract, could vest no interest or cause
of action in the endorsee. In order to avoid the pressure of
.this defence, in the Court below, the plaintiffs there gave in evidence a.writing,'addressed by W. W. Corcorran & Co. to the
Bank, bearing date 17th February, 1828, prior to the institution of that suit, in these words: " Please deliver to Thomas
Corcorran what notes of ours may remain in your possession, after the debt due the Bank, for which they are left as
collateral security, shall have been paid, or hold the game
subject to his order." And it was further shown, that'a few
days before the issue was tried below, an adjustment bad taken place between the Bank and Thomas Corcorran, (who was
then endorser and assignee of W. W. Corcorrm'St Co,) upon
which Gaither's note had been delivered to Thomas Corcorran;
he then endorsed his name on Gaither's note, below' that of
W. W. Corcorran 8 Co. and thereupon the Bank, before the
jury were charged, had the name of Thomas Corcorran entered on the *docket, as the cetuy que use, for whom they were
prosecuting their suit, and the jury, it appears, were charged
with the cause, according to the exhibition of parties, thus
made upon the docket; that is, to try an issue between the
Bank, to the use of Thomas Corcorran, plaintiff, and Gaither,
defendant.
. This practice is familiar with the Maryland Courts, and
when the action originates in that form, the ce8tuy que use is
regarded as the real party to'the suit.
It is now, contended, that, although substituted at the ele,
venth hour, Thomas Corcorrait is to be regarded in that relation
and under that idea tLis cause has been argued, as though
the question of usury had been raised between Gaither and an
innocent endorser.
But it is obviously. impossible, in the present action, to pay
-any regard to Thomas Corcorran's interest or claims. The
arrangement which introduted his name into the cause,'was
too obviously concocted for the purpose of rescuing the interests ,of the plaintiffs in the record, fro,'the effects of the defence of usury. It therefore can pretend to no merit in the
administraon of justice., But if the effects of that transacmotive,action.
it is equally
tion beitexamined,
clearU,
reference
can have without
no bearing
upon to
thethepresent
The
interest in
power
dor over Gaither's nte, was only inchoate, and
cpbtilgetit,.until all the debts due the Bank should he paid, or
they otherwise be induced' to relinqiish it*to 'him and this did

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

is

(GaIther vs. The Farmers & Mechanits Bank of Georgetown.)
not take place until long posterior to the institution of the suit,
and even after issue joined.
The Bank sue on"theirs'own interest, declared on their own
vright4 and. acknowledge no participation with Thomas Corcor-"
.ran in the interest or..the action, until the moment when-the
cause is going to trial. 'It was surely then too late to permit
them to assume a new character, or interpose a new party;
however liberally this Court might be disposed to sacrifice
the forms and rules of law, to the Maryland practice.
We will, therefore, .put Thomas Corcorran's interest out 01
view, and will consider the parties, at the commencement of
the action, as the.parties at its close.
This puts the question'on the right of an innocent endorser,
out of the ctuse--since.the eidorsee of Gaither's note received the usurious interest, and the endorser paid it. The only
questions on tke~point of usury, then, are;
lst4 Whether Gaither, in'the relations in which he stood fo
these parties, could set up the usury in his defence.
2d, Afid-whether that defence could be set up, after pay-

ment of the note on,which the usury had been received.
The objection in thefirst point, is, that as there was no usury in the concoction of Gaither's contract, he ought not to' be
permitted to avail himself of the usurious contract between

the endtrser and endorsee, to avoid a debt iynich he jitstly
owes..
And this is unquestionably true: for the rule cannot be
doubted, that if the note be free from usury, in its origin, no
subsequent usurious transactions respecting it, can affect it
with t]ie taint of usury. Nor does 'Gaither propose by this.
defence, td relieve himself from paying the note ; it goes only
to his liability to pay it to this individual; and reason, analogy, and adjudged cases, will sustain the defence. Suppose a
note' given to a woman, who marries, and then endorses it without her husband's authority; such endorsement would be void;
(iEast,432,) and the endorsee could. not recover, yet the husband and wife may recover.
In a comment on the case of Jones and Davlson, in Holt's
Reports, (1 HoI4 256,) an usurious note is likened to a bill of
exchange on a bad stamp. -'If a-stamp were necessary to give
validity to an endorsement, it cannot be doubted that none
who claim through such an endorsement could maintain an
action against the drawer. The endorsement, though actual,
was ineffectual for the purpose of transferring an interest in the
npte. It was a void act.
This case. is' governed by the laws of Maryland: and the Act
of Maryland against usury is in the words of the Statute of

Ann, It 'declares, "-All bonds, contracts, and assurances what-

44

SUPREME COURT.

-(Gaither wr. The Farmers & Mechanics Bankof Georgetown.)
ever, taken on an usurious contract," to be utterly void. Now
the endorsement of a negotiable note creites several contracts;
and if, in this case, it could give a right of action against
Gaither, the drawer,. it ought also to sustain an action against
W. W. Corcorran & Co. the endorsers; but against them, it is
perfectly clear that an action could not be maintained, for
they were parties to the usurious loan. It follows, that their
endorsement was a void act, and the property, and of consequence, the right of action, -never passed to ihete plaintiffs.-There is a very strong case, on this subject, which we beliege
was not quoted in argument, to be found in the Books to which
we usually refer. We mean the case of iarrison St Hamell in
Taunton's Reports,'(5 Tauiton, 780,) in which the rights of a
collateral surety to avail himself of.upury in the original transaction, is. distinctly recognised, when the contract of the
collateral was wholly unaffected by usury. The case was reserv d for argument, and the whole Court concurred in the legality of the defence. The language of the Judges is strong,
and applieg to the case before us. One of them remarks :-"That if aman lends 1000 pounds on an ustirious ihter;est, and
gets from a third persoxi a collateral security for 800 pounds
only, without -4surious interest, 1,htld that bond is void, not
because it is given for securing usurious interest, but because
it is given for enforcing a contraet fdr usurious interest" And
another says, "That if.giving these collateral acceptances
would alter the case, it would be a shift or device, by which the
statutes of usury would be defeated."
With regard to the second point, it is mecessary to see the
force of the argumeiit which would deduce from the payment
of the discounted note, a cure to the taiit with which the contract of endorsement was 'affected. 'The law declares it absolutely void. By what operation, then, is it to be rendered valid by the payment of the discounted note? It is-argued, by
the payment and extinguishment of thelatter note, the usury
is extinct, and as if it had never existed. We cannot perceive
how this reasoning can prevail, either in point of. fact or in-ference. , In point of fat, the crime was only consummated
by the payment of that note, since the bank thereby incurred
a liability -under the statute,: to'be sued for three times the
sum.paid them; and as to the inference, it seems *very difficult to Conceive ho0w the p4yMnent of the usurious note should
operate to confirm or give birth to a contract which the law declares never had existence, andwas ab biitioxitterly nmill and void.
There have been cases in which usurious contracts'have been'
cancelled, the -usury refunded, and new contracts substituted
free from the taint of usury, and the law'gives to. the offender
his locuspenitentixe. But there is no agalogy between sucli a

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

45

(Gaither tw. The Farmers & MWchahics Bank of Georgetown.)
transaction and that here presented, -inwhich the money loaned has been paid by the borrower, and only passed into the
vault4 of the Bank, to be deposited with the usurious interest
previously taken. We have not heard of the refunding of this
usury , and this, at least,- would have been indispensable to removing the taint. But even that would never have given valiaity
to an endorsement, which, in the'eye of the jaw, was, as though.
'it had never existed.
As the decision on this point disposes of the right of action,
and leaves no probability that the cause Will be again brought
up to this Court, we deem it unnecessary to notice any other of
the points made in argument
The judgment was reversed, and the cause remaanded to the
Circuit Court. with directions to, award a venirefaciasde no&,

