SUPREME COURT.

IOBERT BARRY, APPiLLANr,

v .

G

FIFrFIT
COOMBE, APPELLEE.

The statute of frauds in Maryland requires vitten evidence of the contract,
or a Court cannot decree performance. The words ofthe statute are "unless the agreement upon which such action shall be brought, or some
memorandum or note thereof, shaitbe in witing signed by the party to
be charged therewith, or by some other person byhim thereto lawfully
authorized." 16501.
A note or memorandumnin writing of the agreement between parties, is suffiient under the"statute of frauds of Maryland. and in order to obtain specific perforuance-in equity, the note in iting must be sufficient to maintain an action atlaV..Whe forih is not regarded, or the place of signature,
provided it be in the handwriting of the party, or his agent, and furnish
evidence of a complete and practicable agreement.' A Court of Equity
will supply no more than, the ordinary incidefits to such-an agreement,
such as the. ingredients of a complete transfer,. usual covenants, &c.
1650}
'An examination of the cases wiltshow that Courts of Equity are not particular, with regard to the direct and immediate purpose for which the written evidence of the contract was created. It is written evidence which the
statute requires and a note or letter, and even in one case a letter, the
object of which was to annul the contract, on a ground really notunreasonable, was held to bring a case within 'the provisions of the statute.

{651}.

Whete, in.ai account stated by tlie parties, in the handwriting of the defendant, hs name being written by him at the head of the account, a balance was acknowledged to be due by hin to the cmplainant in the bill
waspremises
the following
credit;
mypur
fora specoiuc
n B.ofermance,there
whrf and
this day
agree uponrBy
tween
chase
of your alf, B.
to be a sufficient memorandum n writfig unus,
p7578
63 ;"ait
was hfld
der
the statute
of frauds
of Maryland, upon which thie dourt could decree
a specific performance of the sale of the estatg referred to ;other matters
appeaingin evidence, and by the admissions of the defendant in is anE.. whzarf
swer, to show the particularproperty designated by "your jR
anrdpFemises" {651}

THIS was an appeal from a decree in equity, of the Circuit
Couirt for the county of Washington, against Robert Barry the
appellantx upon a bill filed by Griffith Coombe, for the specific
executionof a contract for the sale of real estate in the city of
Washington, and for the payment of the balance of an account,
which it was 4lleged had been settled and agreed upon by the
parties.Thi material charges in the bill, and which were brougbt
intiithe consideration of the Vourt, by the counsel in argument,
ere; that various transactions; commencing" ii 1815, had taken place betweewrthe complainant-and the defendant, who then
residfed in *Baltimore, together' with a certain James D. Barry
of the city of Washingtonu as-joint proprietors of -a tanyard,

JANUAAY TERM, 1828.

64t

(Bary vs. Coombe.)
in which the business of tanning and selling leather was carried on; in the course of which, the concern became largely indebted to the complainant, and to other persons; for the payment of which securities had been given. Afterwards, in 1821,
the partnership between the defendant and James D. Barry,
was dissolved, and the wh9le of the stock in trade became the
property of the defendant; who afterwards continued the business on his own account.
That abbut the 18th of May 1818, the complainant and the
defendant purchased an estate on the Eastern Branch of the Potomac in the city ,fWashington, upon which were erected a
dwelling house, warehouse, and wharf, and which was held by
the complainant and the defendant as tenants in common. Large
expenditures were made by the complainant for the repairs of
the property, and the defendant was considerably indebted to
the complainant for his proportion and 'share of the same.
The bill further charged, that, about September 1820, a settlement of all accounts took place between the parties, upon
which the defendant was found in'arrears, and admitted himself to be indebted io the complainant, a stated 'balance of
9,078 dollars 33 cents; and for the purpose of liquidating and
discharging the balance, so due by the defendant, a bargain
was then concluded for the sale of the defendant's moiety of
the said premises, on the Eastern Branch, so held by them
in common; (or which the complainant agreed to allow him
the price of 7,578 dollars 63 cents, to be passed to his credit,
in account against the stated balance; the balance of 1,500 dollars still remaining due, the defendant agreed to pay with interest in instalments, in one, two, and three years, and to give
his promissory notes for the same; in consideration of which
agreement, on the part of the defendant, the complainant
agreed to dischal-ge the parties who had been concerned in the
tanyard, from the debt due to him, on account of certain endorsements; and to reliquish to the defendant his interest in, and
lien upon, leather which he held. Whereupon the defendant immediately drew up, in his own handwriting, astatement of the
said settlement, bargain, and agreement, in' the form of an account between himself as debtor, and the complainant as creditor;
signed at the beginning with the djendant's name in his own
handwriling,and at the foot with the complainant's name in his
handwriting: in which written statement, are set down theheads of the several accounts upon which the said balance of
9,078 dollars-63 cents, was ascertained against the defendant
as aforesaid; the credit and deduction of the purchase money,
agreed to be allowed the complainant for the defendant's moiety
of the said estate and premises on the Eastern Branch, as aforesaid, described in said statement as " your [meaning the deVoL.I.
41M

642

SUPREME COURT.
BaM w.Coombe.)

fendant's] E. B. [meaning Eastern Branch] wharf and prermises;" and expressly stated as pirchased by the-complainanf
on the day of the date of said paper, with an -express reference to the said agreement between the complainant and the
defdndwit; and lastly, the said balance of 14500 dollars, remaining due after deducting the-credit for the said purchase money as aforesaid, payable by instalments as aforesaid.
The statement of the account, alleged tor have been so drawn
up, was as follows.-

"W'ashinglo, 27tt Seyt. 1820.
To G.' Coombe,

"Robert Barry,
C

Dr.

To amount of-J. D. Barry's notes taken up by me, and secured

by him in tanyard-stock, and leather, per-bill
84,209 00
dated 27th Dec. 1819, 184.40
"Interest on do. to this day-9 Mos. " 4,3S95 40
92,846 50
" To.bill of leather sent you in June, 1819,
216'65
".Interest to-this date--15 Mos. 3,063 15
284 25
"To balance due on tanyard-books, (E. E.)
37 87
"To cart of hay for tanyard,

"To balance due for supplies to'tanyard,
-

-

per account fur ished .you.

15a 64

474926

"To I expenses of-repairs on house and
wharf, E. Brandh,

"17nterest, 9 Mos

-.

-

-

.

.

.

1,145 49 97,930 81
5152 1,197 01

"Cr.

9,127 82

"' By I rent and wharfage, &c.'of-sundrys,.
to this day on E. B, wharf,

-

wharf andpremise8,
3E. A u8.
o your
By myurchase
between
this
day as agreedon

"Balance due G. Coombe, fifteen hundred dollars,

4919

e9,07863
,
91,50000

"Payable in one, two and three years, with interest.
G. COOMBE."
(Signed,)
The bill charged, that this paper, each party having a copy,
was, for the purposes of mutual security; delivered to Daniel
Carroll, Esq. of Duddngton, who was a creditor of the partnership.
It was further alleged, that the complainant went on to do
-and perform all that he had assumed knd undertaken under

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

643

(Barry f. Coombe.)
the agreement and settlement; that he. took possession of the
Ipremises on the Eastern Branch, and has laid out and
'expeided
large sumsof m6oey in the repairs aid improvements thereof;
and'that although;, he has repeatedly imade' efforts to,obtain
from the defenidant', a conveyance of the property, so agreed to
be conveye4 to him by the'defendant, it has not been made.
The bill then prays the specific relief to which the complainant alleges himself entitled in equity, under the contract; and
the benefit of such a recovery, as he might have at law, by attachment or otherwise, for the debt due to him as stated in the
accolunt.
Among the docftments contained in the record, is the following' letter from the compainant, to the defendant, and which
by the affidavit of John P. Ingle, was proied. to have been delivered to the defendant on the 5thbf April 1822.
'Washington City, Mrch 26, 182.
Mr. RoSERT "BAnu.,
Sir-It- is now time that I ihOuld have your final answer,
Vhether you will execute the tontract made between us in prsence of Mr. Carroll, for the' conveyance of your moiety of the
house,' wharf, and premises on the Eastern Branch, and for
the payment and security of the balance due me in,money.
For this purpose I have authorized Mr. John P. Ingle to*call
on- you in my name, and -receive your conveyande, a form of
which he will present you, which youwlll please execute, and
acknowledge- in due f[rm, so as to make it effectual herd.
Please'also.pay to- M. Ingle the instalmint of'%560, dud in
September last, with interest from 27th September 1840.
Please also to execute and deliver.to Mr, Inigle~your two notes
for the other instalments, drafts of whidh he will present you;
I also require of you the surrender' of J. D. Barry's draft,
endorsed by me for S OOO, which had been discounted in the
Bank. of Washingtojn, and which you promised to take upand
release me from. I must notify you, that if you persist in"
refusing to comply with- the terms of your contract, according to
your pledked faith.in presence of the respectable witness above.
mentioned, I shall hold you accountable in money, for the whole
balance due me according to our settlement, and shall merely
hold the house, wharf, Scc. which you were to have conveyed
to me, as collateral security'for the entire balance ascertained
by that settlement, and for the'expenses. since laid out in repairs and impr~vementg of the same, under the faith of your'
contract.
Respectfully your obedient servant,
GRInFFIT.U GOQ~NI.

SUPREME COURT.
(B"ary vs. Coombe.)
Robert Barry, denies in his answer, the liaby the bill 'of -the complainant, he is said to
as connected with the tanvar4, and the conD. Barry; and, after stating other matters,
not necessary to 'be inserted, admits, in the language of the
answer, that in the year 18 0, he had a conversation with the
complainant .about settling their. accounts, "including the
debt alleged to hdve been secured by the, pretended bill of sale
aforesaid, and the complainantthen proposedto pur.asefromthi8
defendant, his undividedmoiety ofthe lots and wharf aforesaid, and
that the amount of purchase money should be considered as a
payment to the complainant, in part of the amount which he
then alleged was owing to him; and the defendant, at the request
of the complainant, who alleged the badness of his handwriting'
as an excuse for making that request, copiedfrom a written memorandum furnished by the complainant, the statement of t-e
account referred to, in which the defendant's name was written by him, only for the purpose of stating him asdebtor to the
complainant, in compliance with his req test, not as signing any
contra.et or agreement. And that the said statement so written
-by him, at the instance and request of the complainant, being
signed by him, was delivered to this defendant, for the purpose
of. consideringwhether, after due examination, he would assent to
the-lerms therein proposed, and was not deposited in the hands of
.D-piel Carroll,as'the complainant alleges. For this defendant dedares, that he did not then assent to the correctness of the several
charges and estimates in the said statement, although he expre~sed
his willingness to sell his undivided moiety of the said wharfand
premises for the priceproposed by the complainant,if this defendant should be satisfied, on examination, that he woul actualy receive a-compensationfully equal in value to the saidprice; and
therfore the said statement was delivered to this defendant, for
the- purpose'of examination and consideration as iifoiesaid, and
has always since been, and now is, in the possessioii of this defendsrnt; and in reference to the said verbal agreemaent, and explanatory of the condition on whichi this defendant was willing to
carry the same into effect, this defendant a few days after he received the said statement, having discovered apart of the representationsmade to him, as aforesaid, to be incorrect, wrote a
letter to the complainant, representing the said conditions
so far as they were affecd by the discovery then made, a copy
of which letter this, defendant herewith exhibits, which he
prays may be received as a part of this his answer; which letter was, as this defendant, believes, delivered to the complain.
ant, and was read by him, and is probably in his posfession, or
in his power to prodice; and this defendant prays that the said
original letter niay be here produced.' The answer also state ,
The defend ant,
bilities to which,
have been under
cern with"James

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

645

(Barry t. Coombe.)
tiat upon subsequent examination, the account which-was made
out, and in which was the entry of" E. B. wharf, Uc," had been
found erroneous in many particulars.
The answer submits to the decision of the Court, :wiether
the account set forth in the complainant's bill, is "an agreement, such as is requirkdy law and equity, to compel the defendant to make the sale and conveyance claimed and prayed
by the complainant."
The letter referred to, in the defendant's answer, is as follows
Balftmore,,7th October 1820.
Mn. GRxFFrr COOMBE,
Sire.--Having agreed to sell you my undivided half interes
in"the Eastern Branch wharf and premises, at Wasl nigton;
lately deeded to you and to meby James D. Barry, Ihereby
bind myself to give you.a good and sufficient conveyance of all
my right and ttle in law and eq'iity for the same, as soon as"
you send me, or that I receive, the stock of ldatheF- ow working out at the tanyard, (the same being a part of the, consideration for my right to said property,) or otherwise place the piro-"
ceeds thereof at ray disposal, as far as you have, or can, or shall
have,the right or power to do, or causi to be done, agreeably
to the inventory lately given me by Mr. Edmund Rice, of said
stock and materials, which inventory must embrace a quantity
of finished leather, amounting to about eight hundred aid six
dollars, removed by him tohis brother William's store; and as
this lien to you is blended with a lien to others, I further engage
on receipt of said stock of leather, to provide likewise for the
lien held thereon by Mr. Daniel Carroll, of Dud. for about
eighteen hundred dollars,- and also for the payment of a liei or{
said stock of leather, to secure the amount of 4 note dure to
Edmund Rice, or endorsed by hiiam-at the Patriotic Bank, foi
about twelye huh'dred dollars; and, in other respects, .to-settle
for any balance I may owe ydu on the account you have fuirnished me, agreeable to the prin'ciples of equity and justice.
I remain, &c. yours, respectfuily."
P.S. The effect, of the paper signed by you, and deposited.
with Mr. Carroll,'will, of course, remain, suspended, subject
to its conditions, for the-purpose of carrying- the foregoing
into effect, and which will, by me be complied,with-in good
faith.
The evidence before the Circuit Court, consisting of the
examinations of Mr. Pleasanton. Mr. CarroU; and others, and

646

SUPREME COURT.

(Barry vs.' Coofmbe.)
-what is contained in the redord, are sufficiently stated in the
opinion of the Court.
The case was argued for the appellantb Mi. Cox, and Mr.
Worthington; and by Mr. Jones, for the appellee.
The appellant contended:
1st. That there was no final agreement betweenthe parties.
2d. If there was, it was void under the statute of frauds.
3d. Supposing an agreement fully 'concluded, it was obtained by misrepresentation, and fraudulent concealment.
4th. It was without consideration.
The counsel for the appellant .cited the following authorities -1
Vez. 76. Prec.in Chan. 560. 1 d/tk 12. 449. -1b. 497.
2 Dessas, 145. 1 Johm Mh Rep. 149. 9Z9. 288. Cox, 222. 1 P;
Williams, 771,n. Sugden on Vend. 71. 86. 01. 1 Equ' Cams

A/r. 20. 4 Taunt 754. Aw on 6Wnt. 1-67. 1 Sc1h. 4- Lef. 2. 1

Pez-'f,. 226. S3&. 2 8dh. 8f Lef. It. 57. 3 Vez. 185. 579. 6 Vez.
,39. 1 Rdw. 516. 8 Cm. Dg 362. Ah 705. L.' Ray. 1410. 2

Camp. SOB.

2.Atk. 488. 3 t-s! p. 49.3. 15 Bat, 7. 3"T. Rep.

757. 761. 2 P. Wzlliams 217. 3,ttk. 08. 6. I .Deweai, 57. 2
Sc/&. 4- 1f. 554. 18 Vei. 10. 2 BalU - Bedt. 369. 1 lb.'256. 2
, eat. 336. 7 J'ez. '341. 5;Serg. 4. Lowb.-485. 20Cainw' R1

2.

4 Johh. 251 2A. S00. 16A. 54.

For the appellec, it was argued;
1. That the original agreement was sufficiently certain and
precise in its ternu ; and was ascertained' by a sufficient menorandum in writing, under the statute offraudA.
9. 'That, if the original memoranduln in writing were, at all,
defective- the case is. taken out of the- statute by the an8wer,
which fully admits the agreement charg'eti in'the bill, without
pleading, or, in any manner, relying on the statute.
. .That the collateral, matters of pretended equity, set up
in the. answer by'way of avaidan are, for the most pat, ,utterly foreign to thp meriis of a epecifi. execution of the agree.
ment , and, in so far as they are -at all material to-any que.tion.between th1e parties to thig cause, required substantive
proof to support the answer: of not one of which has the ap
pellant offered or pretended any manner of proof; but has
turned his back on the most obviou' means and ample opportunities, challenging hini to the proof' from accessible and unfailing' sources of evidetce, if there had been any truth in hi%
averments; which, moreover, have been'positively confradicted, in every mathrial circamstance, and cbnclusively disproved
by the evidence in the cause.
4. That 'the apellee is entitled to a specific execution of !the
agmeement, upon principles 'wholly independent of all the solemnities required by the statute, in consequence of an. Oquitable obligation, affecting the-conscitnce of the vzrpellantHbeyond

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

647

(Barry vs. Coo'rbe.)
the mere force of an express ccntract, and combining, -in this
case, all the equitable circumstances; any one of which was sufficient to bring a specific executioii of the contract within the
app~opriate jurisdiction of equity to relieve againstfraud. 1st.
Because the appellant practisedfinesse to evade the instantaneous execution of the agreement, by promising that he would,
in, a few days, reduce it to. the more solemn and consummate
form of a regular conveyance' for the land, and of promissory
notes for the balance of account remaining, due, after taking
credit for the purchase money of the land; and,.in the, mean
time, drew from the appellee, upon the faith of that promise,
all the valuable equivalents of the agreement. 2dly." Because
the contract ' has been cbmpletely executed, on the part of the
purchaser, by payment of all the purchase monj, and, in part,
exeicuted oh both sides, by an exclusive, long continued, and
unque'stioned possession in the purchaser, under the contract.
Sdly. Because the purchaser has made large expenditures, t.
extensive, and beneficial improvements of the property) upon
the faith of the contract.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN, delivered the opinion of the Court.This appeal brings up for revision- a decree of .the Circuit
Court of this district; by which this appellant has been required to execute, specifically, an agreement for the sale of land.
The bill'sets up a certain written instrument, as a sufficient
memorandum in writing; but not relying solely on that, goes
.on to make out one of those cases, in which a Court of Equity
-ciercises this branch of its jurisdiction, in, order that the statute of frauds may not be made a cloak for fiaud. that is a case
of performance on the part of the complaipant.
This has caused the question on the right tc relief, in a case
within the provisions of the statute, to be mixed up with a great
deal of extraneous matter, which need not have been set out,
had the claim to'relief been confined to the one ground alone.
The memorandum set up is in the form:of a stated account,
wholly in the handwriting of the appellant. Barry, the defendant below, and acknowledged to be a copy made by him of dUother, also made out in his handwriting, actually signed by
Coombe the appellee, and now in the hands of Barry. So that
Barry's name is in the caption, if it may be so, called, and
Coombe's-at the foot of the memorandum. -The item of the account, which relates to the bargain or agreement for the sale of
the land, is in these wor'ds, letters, and figures.
"By my purchase of your .' E. B. wharf and premises
this day as agreed on between us;" and the credit is carried
out in figures" 7578 6S, and deductpd from th" amount charged to Barry.

648

SUPREME COURT.

(Barry vs. Coombe.)
Then follows this memorandum, rbdance due G. Coombt.
fifteen hundred Dollars, payable in one two and three years
G. Cooxmns."
withi interest.
The defence set up in the answer is, that the transaction was
not final; that it amounted to nothing more than a treaty in
progress'; that as far ns it proceeded it was obtained by false
and fraudulent suggestions on the-part of complainant; and
that the name of defendant was signed, if signed at all, only to
state an account, not to acknowledge a contract; and the answer concludes with submitting 'to the Court, whether it be
"an agreement such as is required by law and equity, to compel the defendant to make the sale and conveyance claimed, and
prayed for by complainant."
It is under these words alone, that the protection of the statute of frauds is set up by defendant. But in the view which
this Court will take-of-this subject, it is unnecessary to inquire,
whether the case required or admitted that it should be more
formally pleaded, since we will.dispose of the cause under. the
admission, that he has entitled himself by his answer to the full
benefit of the statute, if the facts of the case would maintain
the defence.
And first it i' obvi6us, that it would be idle to consider the
form and effeci of the instrument, if the treaty was never brought
to a conclusion. On this fact the answer has put the complainant upon' proof, and two witnesses have been examined to the
point. Mr. Pleasanton the first witness swears-that in the
year 1820, the defendant showed him a'statement of accounts,
which he believes was a copy of one exhibited by the complainant, and informed him that he had made a settlement of accounts with complainant, that the account o shown exhibited'
a balance against the defendant of 500 or 1500 dollars, that it
was in Barry's 6wn handwriting, and that he stated, as an inducement to make it, that Coombe had mad6 a. sacrifice to obtain it.
The account so shown to Mr. Pleasanton, could have been no
other than the original of that which Coombe has exhibited,
and the facts to which this witness testifies, are strongly indicative of a finaltransaction.
The next witness, Mr. Carroll, is still more positive. He was
present at the transaction, and, as he testifies, t the request of
both parties, became the depository of several documents relating to it; and on the subject of the conclusive character of
the transaction, his language is " that he understood the settlemeit to be final and absolute."
But there were other facts to which Mr. Carroll was exaamined; and it is argued, that his testimony as to those facts
goes to prove, that he was mistaken in the view which be took

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

649

(Barry vs. Coombe.)
of the transactions; that they go to prove that there was something yet to be done, before the agreement should be closed.
Coombe, it seems, insisted that Barry should" give his note
for th'e balance stated, and a deed for the property before he left
Washington. This Barry resisted, and finally left Washington
without doing'either, and returned to his home at Baltimore.
It cannot -be denied that this does conduce to prove an unfinished treaty, but the inference is repelled by various considerations.
And first, preparing the deed might require time, his business may have pressed for his return home, or he may have
wished his own counsel or scrivener to draw up the deed.
2. As to the notes, giving them, made no part of the agree.
ment reduced to writing; the balaice stated was to have been
paid in one, two, and three years, but it does not express that
notes are to be given for it, and he may have had his reasons
for declining to give his notes, or for taking advice upon it. If
there should prove to be errors in the stated accounts, upon
more deliberate examination, these errors might more conveniently have been adjusted upon the stated balance, than- upon
notes,'which might have found their way into several hands, and
thus have multiplied litigation.
3. It does not appear from Mr. Carroll's testimony, that
Barry refused generally to give either deed or notes, but only to
give them before he went to Baltimore ; on the contrary, he appears to have resented Coombe's seeming to act upon a doubt
that he would then execute and send them, and to this Mr.
Carroll bears positive testimony, when he says " that lie understood that the notes and deed were as certainly to be sent on
from Baltimore, as if executed on that day."
But what is conclusive in this part of the cause is, that the
transaction was followed up by an act on the part of Barry,
which no honest man could have done, otherwise than in the
supposition that it was a finished transaction. It appears that
Coombe, together with Mr. Carroll and Mr. Rice, held a mortgage of a quantity of leather to the value of 7000 dollars, given
to secure to them certain sums advanced on behalf of one James
D. Barry; that the defendant Robert Barry had assumed the
debts of James D. Barry, and thereby acquired a resulting use,
or equity of redemption, in this leather. That the sum for which
Coombe held his lien on the leather, to wit, 4209 doilars, was
one of the items of account in the exhibit upon which the complainant relies, to obtain a decree for specific performance. But,
as abalance of 1500 dollars still remained due to Coombe upon
the stated account, the leather was still pledged to him for that
amount. This interest Coombe was induced to release to Barry, and which he accordingly did, by an endorsement upon the
Vor. T.
4 N

650

SUPREME COURT.'
(Barry-vs. Coombe.)

instrument of ivriting by which the lien was created. And MrI,
Carroll testifies " that the defendant did receive at the tanyard
in Washington, all the leather mentioned in the bill of sale, in
consequence of complainant's release."
It is true, an attempt wvas afterwards made in this"suit to arrest the l~ather in the hands of Barry, but it was not on the
.ground that the treaty was in fier4,or the release not final; but
to subject the leather to the debt, which would be due to the
complainant, if he could not obtain the specific execution of
the sale of the wharf, 'as well as the acknowledged balance.
It is obvious then, that in reducing the leather into possession,
Mr. Barry must either have acted fairly, on the idea of a finished transaction, orunfah'ly, by entering upon the fruition a fraud.
practised to obtain the release.
We-will consider him as having acted fairly upon the ground
of a treaty final and concluded, to be carried'into exeGution aecording to its terms, But the statute of Frauds in Maryland
requires -written evidence of the contract, or a Court -cannot
decree performance. Is this tuch written evidence of a " contract or sale of lands" as satisfies the exigency of that statute?
The words. of the statute are, "unless the agreement upon
which such action shall be brought, or some memorandum -r
kote thereof, shall be in writing and signed -by the party, to be
charged therewith, or by some other person, by him thereunte
lawully authorized."
A note or memorandum in writing of -.me agreement, therefore,. is sufficient, and thereis no question that in order to obtain a specific performance in equity, the note'in writing must
be sufficient to maintain an action-at law. The f6rmris not regarded, nor the place of signature, provided it b in the handwriting of the party- or his agent, and fnrhish evidence of a
complete and practicable agreement. A/Cort of Equity will
supply no more than- the ordinary Inc6tfnts to "such an agreement; such as the ingredients of a complete transfer, usual covenants, &c.
-At first view, this would seem to he an"anomalous case, but
it is only necessary to reduce it to its elements, in order to aiscover, that it is 9ne, known to the adjudications of -Courts of'
Equity on this statute. -Asto-the balance stated, it is final and
conclusive between these-- parties, and insimul comnut=ent,
might be maintained upon it, by Cotbmbe, for ihe amount..
And in an action by him,, going to claim 'the whole amount
charged to Barry, it would be good evidence in the hands of
Barry, to reduce Coombe's demand down to-the balance stated.
Itis then equivale% to a-mutubl and reciprocal receipt between thes *&arties; on the one hand,.Coombe sign a receipt
for the price Qf thy premises'in controversy; in account with

JANUARY TERM, i828.

651

(Barry . Coombe.)
Barry, and Barry on the other, signs a receipt to Coombe, ac-

knowledging that he has received the price stipulated, in full
of the purchase money of the same.

This is the real purport and effect of the writing in evidence,
and had the instrument, signed by the parties, been expressed
in these terms, there could not have been a doubt of its sufficiency, (12 Vez.jr. 466. 9 Vez.jr. 234.) But it is argued that
this was not the intent Avith which the writing was concocted.
That it was to state an account, and not to note an agreement for
the sale of property, that it was drawn up and signed. An examination of the cases on this subject will show that Courts of
Equity are pot particular with regard to the direct and immediate purpose for which the written evidence of a contract was
created. It is written evidence, which the statute requires, and
a note or letter, and even in one ase, a letter, the object of
which was to annul the contract, on a ground really not unreasonabl6, (1 .dtk. 12. 1 &h. 4-L. 22,) has beed held to bring a
case within the provisions of the statute. But, in the present
instance, %lthough.notthe sole object of creating the instrument,
it really was an object, and an important one, inasmuch as the
balance'of account, theimnnediate object of the stated account,
mainly depended upon the item for the sale of these premises.
It could not be stated without acknowledging , that the one had
agreed to sell and the other to purchase 'these premises, at a
stated price. On this part of the cause,-the case of Stokes vs.
Moorb, has been cited, (1 Cox,218,) and insisted on as furnishing an argument, against the sufficiency of the signature of Barry in this cause. But in the case of Stokes vs. Moore, it -must
be observed, that both the Judges who sat on that cause admit
that this -was not the principal question in the cause, and it was
decided upon the ground, that the memorandum was proved
but to express the entire agreement between the parties. But,
if considered as authority in this point, it is only necessary to
advert to the ground upon which the opinion is expressed,
"that the name there was not a sufficient signature under the
statute," in order to discover that it does not impugn the opinion
entertained by this Court in the present cause. The rule there
laid Aown is, " that the signature is to have theeffect of giving
authenticity to the whole instrument;" and in this instance, we
hold it to be in its proper place, for that purpose. If so, the
Court there further observes, "that it does not signify much
in what part of the instrument it is to be fouind." It remains
to examine whether the memorandum is sufficiently full and
explicit, to admit of a decree for specific performance. The
words are, " By my purcliase of your A E. B. wharf and premises,
this day, as agreea on.between us, 97578 63.' Brief as it is,
this memorandum contains a condensed summary of all the es.

SUPREME COURT.
(Barry v. Coombe.)

sentials to a complete contract. By the use of the present tense,
it speaks of a thing final and concluded. By reference to the
date at the head of the account, the use of the words" this day"
gives a date to the transaction. By the use of the pronouns your
and us, the parties are distinctly introduced. By carrying out
the price, the consideration is expressed with absolute precision, and by deducting it from the sum acknowledged due by
Barry, the receipt of the consideration is acknowledged; nor is
there a single ingredient of a complete contract deficient, unless
the description of the property contracted for, be insufficient.
If that description be fatally ambiguous, it is certainly a sufficient ground to refuse relief. The ambiguity here, arises from
the use of the capital letters E. B. in the description of the premises; and if those letters stood alone, and unconnected with
any thing that could give them a definitive signification, there
would be much reason to doubt whether the defect would be
curable. The words are, 11Your . E. B. wharf and premises,"
and it is argued that this is one of those ambiguities, generally
designated by the epithet-patent, and as such, admitting of
no explanation from extrinsic evidence.
Sir Francis Bacon, in his elements of common law, (egula
23,) is the author usually referred to on this distribution of ambiguities, intopatent and latent; the former appearing on the face
of the instrument, and not to be removed by extrinsic evidence,
but only, in the language of the author, "to be holpen by construction or election;" the latter raised by reference to extrinsic circumstances, and remediable by the same means, It would
perhaps be a more convenient, and certainly a more intelligible
distribution of the doctrine on this subject, if the cases were
divided into positive, relative, and mixed; the positive corresponding to the patent; and the relative to the latent ambiguities of the authors who treat of the subject. The mixed, would
consist of those cases in which, although the ambiguity is suggested on the face of the instrument, the face of the instrument
also suggests the medium by which the ambiguity may be removed.
The facts of this case will bring it either within the second
or third class; within the second, because, for any thing that
appears on the face of the instrument, E. B. wharf, may be'as
definitive a description of locality as F street, and then the
ambiguity could only arise, if it be shown that the bargainor
had more than one house inF street, like the two manors of
Sale, put by several authors.
Perhaps this case belongs more properly to the third class,
since the description suggests several circumstances of identity, by reference to which, the premises in question are distinguishable from all others;'first, it is a wharf; secondly, a wharf

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

653

(Barry vs. Coombe.)
the property of Barry; thirdly, a wharf of which he owns a
moiety; and connected with these descriptive circumstances;
the letters E. B. becanie in fact the initials of the name of a
place; and the case is analogous to that of a will, in which the
devisee is designated as my son A, my nephew B. C, or my
uncle D. E, in which the circumstance of relationship, will let
in evidence to fill up the names designated by the initials.
In fact the cases on this point have gone much farther, and
without committing ourselves on the correctness of tle following two, it will be found by referring to them-, such evidence
has been let in to supply names, in cases where the identification
was by no means as circumstantial as the present.
In the case of Price vs. Page, (4 Vez. jun. 68,) the entire
Christian name was supplied on parol evidence without any initial, Price the son of Price being the only designation. In the
case of -Abbot vs. Massie, (3 Vez.jun.) the devise was to A. G.
and Mrs. G. and evidence ordered to be received to identify
the legatees.
If ever extrinsic evidence may be.admitted to -carry out the
initials of a nameit is impossible that.a case can occurto furnish
evidence more full or'unexceptionable in its character, than the
p resent. The bill alleges that the letters E. B. mean Eastern
ranch, and the defendant not only admits in his answer, that
the treaty had relation to his moiety of a wharf and premises
on theEastern Branch of the Potomac, but voluntarily, although
altero intentif, introduces a letter from himself to complainant,
in vhich it is explicitly acknowledged. "1Having agreed to sell
you my individual half-interest in the Eastern Branch wharf
and premises," is his language in the letter. Besides which, the
original deed is spread upon the record, by whiich it appears
that the defendant held a moiety, as tenant in common with
the plaintiff, of a wharf and premises on the Eastern Branch of
the Potomac river, which is well known in common parlance as
the Eastern Branch, without the addition of Potomac or river.
We are therefore of opinion, that the ambiguity is fully removed, and legally, since it is by reference to a medium of explanation suggested on the face of the memorandum; and on evidence, which while it neither adds to, detracts from, nor varies.
the note in writing, supplies every exigency of the, statute of
frauds.
The.only remaining question arises on the effects of Coombe's
letter of the 26th of March 1822, which the defendant insists
amounted to a relinquishment of the contract of sale, and this
appears to some of the Court, to present the greatest difficulty
in the cause. For it cannot be denied, that the letter is not
confined in its import to a demand of P fulfilment of the contract. It does nQt intimate an intention to enforce the contract;

654

SUPR:EME COURT.

(Barry vs. Coombe.)
but on the contrary, concludes with a declaration, that if Barry
does not comply with this contract on his part, the complainant will hold himself exonerated, and will resort to his original
money contract, as it stood prior to their entering into the contract for the sale of the premises.
Nothing therefore, but the equivocal conduct of Barry on the
receipt of that letter as proved in the deposition of Ingle, deprives him of the benefit of this defence. To have availed himself of it, he should have adopted the alternative offered him;
and as the only unequivocal proof of it, should have tendered to
Coombe the amount justly due to him, after extracting that item
from the account. This he did not do, and it was too late
after the bill filed to claim the benefit of a right thus gone by;
at least, without paying unto Coombe the amount which would
have been due to Coombe upon a mutual relinquishment of the
bargain.
As to the ground of misrepresentation and fraudulent con
cealment, we have not thought it necessary to say more, than
that there is not the least evidence to support the charge set
up in the answer.
Nor is it necessary to examine the case on the ground of
part performance, since this Court is fully satisfied on the sufficiency of the memorandum in writing, to sustain the decree;
'so far as it requires Barry to make title to the moiety of the
wharf, lot and premises.
With regard to that part of the decree which relates to the
W
payment of the balance of the stated account, 'and perpetuates
the'injunction not t; remove certain property beyond the jurisdiction of the Court, until that balance be paid, we are induced
to consider all,objections to be waived.
Yet we mean not to express any doubts-of its correctness,
since the defendant has no where put his defence upon the
ground of the remedy at law; but on the contrary, by his answer he impeaches the conclusiveness of the stated account,
and raises an issue, in. equity, upon the fairness and correctness
of several items, which if expunged would leave a balance in
his favour.
This defence he has failed to sustain by proof, and the Court
on that ground alone, independent of its connexion with the
principal subject of the bill, might legally decree payment of
the stated balance, and the means of enforcing payment.
Decree affirmed with costs, and cause remitted for final
proceedings.

