TANUARY TERM, 1828.

ALLISON R-OSS, PLAINTIFF IN ERRORj VS. JOHN Doz ON THtE DEMISE OF ADAm BARLAND, AND OTHERS.

Both the plaintiff and defendants claimcd title under the provisions of the
Act of Congress, passed 3d March, 1803, entitled ",An Act regulating
the grants of land, and providing for the disposal of the lands of the
United States, south of the state of Tennessce ;" and the decision of the
Supreme Court ef the state of Mississippi, was, upon the construction
given to that Act, by the commissioners acting under its authority. This
is a case which draws into question the construction of an Act of Congress, and the Supreme Court of the United States has jurisdiction on a
writ of error, by which the decision of the Court of the state of Mississippi
is brought up for revision, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789. {663}
Where by the established practice of Courts in particular states, the Courts
in actions of ejectment look beyond the grant, and examine the progressive stages of the title, from its incipient state until its consummation;
such a -practice will form the law of case s decided under the sAme in
these states, and the Supreme Court of the United States, regard those
rules of decision in cases brought up from sugh states, provided that in
so doing, they do not suffer the provisions of any statute of the United
States to be violated. 1664}
Under the Actof Congresi of March 3d, 1803,such lands only were authorized to be offered for sale, as had not been appropriated by the preiious
sections of the law, and certificates granted by the commissioners in pursuance thereof. A right therefore, to a particular tract of land derived
from a donation certificate given under that law, is superior to the title
of any one who purchased the same land at the public sales, unless there
is sonic fatal infirmity in the certificate, which renders it void. {6661
The Act of Congress requires no precise form for the donation certificate.
It is sufficient if the proofs be eXhibited to the Court of commissioners, to
satisfy them of the fhcts entitling the party to the certificate. It is suffi,
cient if the consideration, to wit the occupancy, and-the quantity granted,
appears. Nothing more is necessary to certify to the government the.
party's right, or to enable him, after it is surveyed by the proper officer.
to pbtain a patent. 16661
The second section of the Act of-Congress of March 3, 1803, w. s intended
to confer a bounty on a nunferous class of individuals, and in construing
the ambiguous words of the section. it is the duty of the Court to adopt
that construction which will best effect the liberal intentions 6f the legislature. 16671
The time when the territory 6ver which -this law operated was evacuated
by the Spanish troops, was very important; as the law was intended to
provide fbr those who were actually at that time innabitants of, and cultivated the soil within it; but whether it was in 1797, or 1798, was comparatively unimportant. The decision of the commissioners upon the
period when the evacuation took place, is sufficient ; and the Court are
disposed to adopt the construction of the Act, given by the commissionera west of Pearl river : that the evacuation took. place on the 30th
March, 1798, by which persons coming within the objects of the section.
were entitled to donation certificates. 16671

SUPREME COURT.
(Ioss vs. Doe on the demise of Barlandlet al.)
Congress have treated as erroneous, the construction given to the law by
the commissioners to settle claims to lands east of Pearl river, who have
decided, that only those who were settled oa the lands within the territory in the year 1797, were entitled to donation certificates, and who had
granted to others preemption certificates. 1668}
The commissioners appointed under the Act of Congress relative to claims
to lands of the United States south of the state of Tennessee, were authorized to hear evidence as to the ime of the actual evacuation of the
territory by the Spanish troops ; and to decide upon the fact. The law
=,;snem poier to hear and decide all matters respecting such claims,
,nd to determine thereon, according to justice and equity; and declared
their dliberations shal be final. The Court are bound topresume that
every fact necessaryto warrant the certificate, in the terms of it, was provconsequently, it was shown to
;-and that
commssioners
ed.before
'the
territory by the'Spanish troops, took
final
of the;668}
them,
that
the30th
place op
the
r evacuation
of
March, 1798.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the state of Mississippi.
This action of. ejectment was originally instituted ,by the
Court of
the
in error,
the aginst
Circuit Allison
the defendants
lessee
state ofofMississippi,
citizens
of thatin
state
Ros,
the plaintif in error, to recover a tract
o
f land lying in that
tate. The plaintiff, in.that Court, obtained a verdict for the
land, and' on the trial of the cause a bill of exceptions was
taken to .the opinioh of the Circuit Court upon'certain instruc-

•tions which were refused to be given; when required by the

counsel for the defendant below. From the decision of the state
Circuit Cour the defendant in that Court, appealed to the

Supreme Court of the state of Mississippi, and the judgment

of' the Circuit Court having been affirmed in that Court, he
prosecuted .a writ of error to this Court.
The bill of exceptions, aent up with the record, sets forth
that the counsel for the plaintiff in error, moved the Circuit
Court to instruct the jury th't if they shQuld be ofopinion
that the defendanti ' the ejectment was in possession of the
land in contrqversy under a patent from the United States to
Isaac'Ross, dated
i
othAugtst
1819, and assigned by'him to
the said ndefendantr the plaintifrin the ejectment could not recove. The patent to Isaac Ross, was founded upon a certificate
of the Register of thecaland-ofce west of Pearl river, and was for
theland in controversy; whict hati beien sold at the sales of the
liitds ouf
the United State, and purchased' by Isaac Rosst who
aftrwards asigned the same to AllisonRoss,, the defendant

below.
The patent was of older date ta

th the
patent held by the essors of the plaintiff below'; whch patent was'issuedto Joseph
White, on a cetificateof
the Board of C mmissioners wfcst
of. Pearl river, granted- in pursuance of an Act of Congress,
passed the 3d of March 1803, entitled "An Asct regulating

JANUAA1 TERM, 1828.

W5

(Ross vs. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
the grants of land, and providing for the sales of lands of the
United States, south of the state of Tennessee."
The instructiQns required, claimed that the-elder patent of
the defendant bolow, should prevail in the actign of ijectment"

in'a Court of Law, against'the junior patent of the lQAt,

tal.

though the junior patent -emanated from a prior certific~teof
the commissioners.
The Court refused to give the instructions prayed for, btit
on the contrary instructed them that the junior, patent of the
plaintiff in the ejectment, emanating upon a certificatefor a: donation claim,- prior in date to the patent under 'which the defendant claims, would overreach the elder piatent of the defendant, and in point'of law should prevait against it.
'The plaintiff in error contended, that the Court below erred
in refusing the instructions prayed for, and in the instructions
they gave to the jury in favour of the title of the plaintiff-:in
the ejectment.
The case was argued for the plaintifflin error, by Mr. Wirt,
Attorney-General, and by Mr.-Coxe for the defendants.
For the plaintiffin eirror.-The patent under which the,defendants claim to hold the.laid- was granted under a donation
certificate, issued by the Board of Commissioners, west of
Pearl river. The -fand in question was sold' at public sale, ,by
the government of the United States, and Was -purchased by
the assignor of the plaintiff in error, ignorant of any other
title--the 'purchase money was paid-a patent issued to -himr,
from the general land-office, and possession was taken. The
bolder of the donation certificate applied for a patent, and
the land-office, not knowing of the prior patent, granted his
request, and- he hpldirig a junior patent, brought this ejectment in the state Court of Mississipi. The question before .that Court was; whether -before a Court of Law, the junior patent cop-ld be given in evidence. The- Court refused'to
instruct the jury that the senior pateit was the. best title, and
gave instructions that the junior patent, in' confoikmity with
the donation certificate, gave the defendaut in error the title to
the land described in it.
The first question to be considered is: Whether in a Court
wf Law, the proceedings, behind the patent, can be looked at to
asceytain the validity of such a patent?
Several references have been given by the opposite counsel,
but they are all cases of Chancery proceedings, and there is no
doubt Chancery can do- this. The questibn now is, can a'
Court of Law do it? It has been decided here, that this can be
done; but this was only when the local law of the state, in
whidh the case arose, authorized such an examination; but not
VOIA I.
4.O

658

SUPREME COURT.

(Ross ts. Doe on the demise of'farlancl et al.)
upon any principles of general law. Poik's Lessee vs. Wendell
et al. 9 Cranchi, 87. f 77eat. 432 5 Wheat. 293.
The decisions of the Courts of Virginia cdnsider the prior
patent conclusive, unless in case of fraud; and it is not known
that any adjudications in the Coi rts of Mississippi have established a different principle.
2. But if the Court can go into the examination of circumstances whichprepeded the patent, still the instruction given
to the jury was wrong, as the junior patent cannotprevail, unless it is warranted by-the prior steps.
The certificate-given by the commissioners is not a donation,
but a pre-emption certificate. This is shown by a reference to the
provisions of the Act of C.ougress. The Act of d March 18S
(2 Stor9t's L_,aws U. J. 893,) is the foundation of the certificate.
The second sectior of that Act gives land to those who
"actually inhabited and cultivated"thetheterritory
tract, onon
thethe
day 2th
the
Spanish troops
October
1797. actually evacuated
The third sectibn gives to persons inhabiting and cultivating a tract at the time of the passing of the law, a pre-emption certifiate for such tract.' The certificate'tunder which the
"plaintiffs
for on
a patent,
the occupation
the tract below
by theapplied
patentee,
the 1sthstates
of' March
1798. Thisof
therefore, could not be, a donation certificate, which could, only
be'granted
to a of
person
who1797,
"inhabited
and have
cultivated"
the
land
on the 27th
October
and it must
bea given
under the third section, which authorizes the issuing of preemption certi0cates.
The certificate granted to the holder" of the junior patent,
states, that he"¢ occupied" the land, and this doe not, ew wi
termini, mean inhabit and cultivate.
It was the duty of the plaintiff to make out a good' title, and
if he does not show, that by the course of decisions i Mississippi you. can look behind the patent, he has failed to doso.
The period at which the territory was actually evacuated by
the Spanish troops, is not lnown to the Court, otherwise than
as stated in the a2t of Congress; whieI affirms the same to
have been 6n the 27th of October 1797 Congress have legislated
as. to. th~e
of Pearl
river,
no.
legislation
as tolands
thoseeast
which
lie west
of but
the there
sane. has
Thebeen
Court
'have
here nothing
to do, within
buit to the
decide
whether
thisofcertificate
is a donation
certificate.
second
section
the law
and to 'do this they must dede upon facts which were or te
jury alone.
Coxe for'the defendant in error.a
1. ahis is not a case in which the Suprem e Court can enterta jurisdiction. Ic ih a writ of error directed to the hibhest

JANUARY TERM, 1828;

659

(Ross v3. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
Court of the state of Mississippi; and the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, furnishes the only rule by which to determine
the question of jurisdiction.
The plaintiff in error has not produced the clause in the'Constitution--the treaty or statute, under which he claims this prozeeding; nor can he dezignate it. The Court below being of opinion, that the case of the defendant'in error was within the'provisions of,the Act of Congress, decided the case upon general
principles, and held that his title is, in law and equity, paramount
to that of his opponent. Had the Court decided differently,
this Court would have had jurisdiction; but theeCnstitution
and Judiciary Act do not confer this jurisdiction in every case,
inwhich the plaintiff in error claims title under a patent from
the United States;, which is the ,only ground upon which it is
pretended to exist here. ' Should this doctrine meet the sanction of the Court, it will be difficult to conceive a case of ejeetment-that can be brought in any of our states, in-which this
4'ourt may not entertain jurisdiction; for nearly every title is
-lerived from, or depends upon a patent from the United States.
Again, what.question. can this Court decide, admitting it to
possess jurisdiction? The same 25th section expresslydeclares,
that no error shall be assigned, or regarded as a ground of re.versal, but such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately resp'ects the before mentioned questions of validity
or construction of the said Constitution, &c. No such" question is presented on this rec6rd. The. construction of the 25th
section has been frequently before this Court, and may be considered as settled. Inglee vs. Coolidge, .2 Wheat. 368, decides,
that the error contemplated in the statute, must be apparent on
the record. Matthews vs. Zane, 7 Wheat. 164. Martinvs. Hunter, 1 WThcat. 857. Montgomery vs. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 132.
Ilickie et al. vs. Starke et al., at this Term, ante, p. 94.
The case is clear upon the merits, should-the Court examine
them. The title of defendant in error is based upon the 2d
section of the Act of March 3d, 1803, c. 340. 3 L. U. S, 546.
To every person, &-c., who did on that day: of the year 1797,
when the Mississippi territory was finally evacuated by the Spa1sh1troop.s, actually inhabit and cultivate a tract of Iand in the
said territor'y, &c., the said tract of land, thus inhabited and
cultivated, shall be granted. The objection is, "that the certilicate of the Board of Commissioners under which this title is
derived, shows an occupane on and before-the S0th of March
1798. It is admitted, that this ii primafaie, erroneoui, and
that it is incumbent on -the party claiming under such a donation certificate, to show that it is warranted by the fair construction of the statute.
The design of Congress in this section, was to secure the

SUPREME COURT.
(Moss ve, Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
titles of actual occupants, who had taken possession under Spa.
nish authorities; and the period up to which such occupancy
should be entitled to this protection, is fixed by two circumstances-it must be on a day in the year 1797-and on the day
when the Spanish troops finally evacuated this territory, the
right to-which had been so long contested between the two
nations, and which was finally settled by the treaty of 1795.
. It is certainly 'true, that Congress at the date of this law,
were ignbrant of the precise day when this evacuation occurred,
and were mistaken as to the year. The Spanish troops finally
evacuated the territory, on the 30th of March 1798, as is stated by an eye-witness of the fact; Ellicotis Journ. 176. Under
the Act of 1803, two Boards of Commissioners were created,
the one for the lands east of Pearl river, the other for the lands
west-of the same stream. These Boards were organized, and
proceeded to business in the latter part of the same year. Thc
Board to the. west of Pearl river, discovered the incongruity
in the statute. This Board proceed.d to execute their duties,
and all their donation cirtificates, air ounting in number to. near
300, have reference to an occupancy on and before the 50th
March 1798. This construction of the law, it is apprehended,
is not only correct in itself, but has received the implied sanction of the legislatu~re. In consequence of the diversity of opinion and ofpractice between the two Boards, Congress passed
another law, on the 21st of April 1806, c. 46; the 4th sectisn
of which enacts, that whenever it shall appear, to the satistz ction 'of the register and receiver of the district east of Pearl
river, that the settlement and occupancy, by virtue of which a
pre-emption certificate had been granted by the commissioners, had been made and taken place prior to the Sdth of March
1798,-they shall be authorized to grant to the party a donation
certificate in lieu of duch pre-emption. This was a leglslativn
sanction, given to the opinion of the Board of Commissioners,
west of Pearl river, who had, in the cases contemplated in this
provision; considered the parties as within the 2d section of
the Act of 1803, and therefore entitled to a donation certificate;
and a legislative-repudiation -6f the construction given by the
Dthe.r Board, who had considered such cases as coming within
the 3d-section of the Act of 1803, and the parties entitled only
to a pre-emption title. On the SI-st of March 1808, Congress
passed another law, c. 40, the 2d section of which .re-enacts
and e-.tetxds the benefit of the 4th section of the Act of April
21st 1806.
Independently, however, of thesb legislative provisions, it is
the only fair interpretation of which, under the circumstances,
the 2d section of the Act of 1803 is susceptible. A literal
compliance with the Act is impossible, as there was no day in

JANUARY TERM,. 1828.

6361

(Ross vs. Doe on the aemisr. oF Barland et al).
the year 1797, in which the Spanish iroops finally evacuated
the Mississippi territory. Either some latitude of construction
must be adnitted, or this section must become a, dead letter,
and'every-title dependent uPn- its provisions, annulled. The
obvious meaning of the Act, was to make the period of evacuation the punctur tempori, to which the occupancy 9hould'refer, and as the one incident or the other, mist yield,, in order
to carry the whole design of the legislature into operation, the
expunging of the words "in the year 1797," involves the least
sacrifice, and tends more effectually than any thing else, to further the intentions of the legislature.
In settling this question of construction, the practice of the
government, and of its lawfully authorized agents is entitltd to
much consideration. This construction has received the sanction of the Board of Commissioners, who were invested not only
with ministerial, but judicial functions; and who throughout the
whole period of their existence so' interpreted the law. It has
received the sanction of the land-office, and of the executive, for
patents have invariably been granted on such certificates.
In Edward's lessee vs. Darby, 19 W9heat. 210, this Court
seems to recoguise the importance of recurring to such soures
of information.
in 6rder to arrive at the true construction of a statute, or
even to enable it correctly to interpret the provisions of the
Constitution, the Court Nill refer to, and judicially notice the
historical facts which are essential to their correct interpretation. This was done in the case of Gibbons vs. Ogden, 9
ftheat. 1.
If then, this form of certificate be correct under the law, what
is its operation? The 2d section says that the-land thus occupied shall be granted to the occupant; this does look- as if Congress designed some ulterior act to be done to vest the title.
The language of the 8th section amounts, however, to a present
legislative grant.. It provides, that so much of the five millionsof acres, reservei -for'thatpurpose, as maybe necessary to satisfy various classes of claims, enumerating particularly -those
which are embraced by the 2d section of the Act, "be and the
same is hereby appropriated." This language is-more definite
than that which this Court, in Simms vs. Irvine, 3 Dall. 425i
construed to confer a legal title as effectually as a patent. Cited
also 2 Wheat. 196.
If this view of the case be correct, it follows, that the title of
the plaintiff in error is radically and intrinsically a nullity. The
patent under which he claims, cannot be valid, even at law, if
at the period of its emanation, the United States .had no title.
Polk's Lessee vs. Wendell, 9 Cranch,87. 94. Patterson vs. Winln,
11 Wheat. 304.

,66,2

SUPREME COURT.

(Ross vs. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
Neithef the language, nor the policy of any law, limits the
time within which we were to call for the patent. No money
was to be paid beyond the mere official fee for the paper. No
person could be injured by the delay; and in this view, nearly
all the patents emanating on donation certificates, bear date
about the same period of time.
The case is therefore relieved from the difficulties presented
by the question whether the Court will look behind the elder
patent, and investigate the prior rights of the parties. The various decisions on that question relate exclusively to cases in
which no other than an equitable title existed before the patent,
and where the patent itself properly issued.' Even in such
cases,'this Court has adopted the practice of the state Courts
where the land was situated, and have decided either for or
against the conclusiveness of the patent, as to the legal title,
according to the varying ideas of the state Courts. In this case
it is incumbent on the plaintiff in error to show, affirmatively,.
that the state Court has erred. Kirk vs. Smith, 9 Wheat. 241.
And to do this, he must show, that under the law of Mississippi,
the patent is the only and conclusive evidence of the legal title.
No authority to this point, can, it is believed, be produced.
Mr. Justice TRIMBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.This was an action of ejectment, originally instituted in a
Circuit Court of the state of Missisippi.
Upon the'trial of the cause, ih the Court of original jurisdictionb, the defendAnt excepted to the opinion of the Court, in
overruling instructions moved on his part, to be given to the
jury, and also to the instructions given by the Court, at the trial
of the cause.
In the bill of exceptions tendered by the plaintiff in errbr in
t6t Court below, are inserted the titles of the parties to the
land in controversy, and the facts, upon which the questions of
law arise, which were decided by the Court. A verdict 4nd
judgment were rendered against the defendant, from which he
appealed to the Supreme Court of the state, being the highest
Court of lIw therein, where the judgment was affirmed; and
the case is now brought before this Court, by wrii of error to
the Supreme Court of the-state.
The material facts of the case are the following: The lessara of the plaintiffs in the action of ejectment, claimed the land
in- controversy under and by virtue of a patent from the United
State , dated the 13th day of October 1820, which was given
in evidence. This patent emanated upon a certificate of the
Board of Commissioners west of Pearl river, organized under
the provisions of the Act of Cong:ess, of the 3d of Marc 1803,
entitled "An Act regulating the grants of land, and providing

JANUARY TERM, 182S.

663

(Ross vs. Doe on the demise of 3arland et al.)

for the disposal of the lands of the United States, south of the
state of Tennessee;"' which certificate was also given in evidence, and bears date the 15th day of Fcbruary 1807. The importani parts of the certificate a're in the followingwords, to wit:
Joseph White claims a tract of six hundred and forty acres of
land, situated in Claiborne county, on the waters of Bayou
Pierre, by virtue of the occupancy of the, claimant on and before the 30th day of Marth, in the year one ihousand seven
hundred and ninety-eight. We certify that the said Joseph
White is entitled to a patent therefor, from the United States,
by virtue of the recited Act."
. The defendant claimed and held possession of the land, under
and by virtue of a patent from the United States, dated the 12th
day of August 1819, for 553 acres of land. This patent is
founded upon a purchase at the general sale of the lands of the.
United States, at Washington- Mississippi; under the authori.
ty of the before recited Act of Congress.
Upon this state of facts, the counsel for the defendant moved
the Court to instruct the jury; "That in such a case, the older
patent of the defendant under which he claimed possessien,
should prevail in the action of ejectment in a Court of Law..
agaiist the said junior patent of the plaintiff; although the said
junior patent of the plaintiff emanated upon a prior certificate
of the Board of Commissioners, west of Pearl river; but the
Court refused to give such instructions in point of law to the
jury, but on the contrary, instructed them,.that the junior pa"
tent of the said plaintiff, emanating upon a certificate of a donation claim, prior in date to the patent under which the defendant claims, would overreach the patent of the defendaut..
and in point of law should prevail against such prior patent oT"
the defendant."
These opinions having oeen affirmed upon appeal to the Supreme Court of the state, the object of this writ of error is to.
have them reviewed in this Court.
'It has been objected, that this Court has not jurisdiction of the
case. By the second section of the third article of th'e Constitution, it is declared, "That the judicial power shall extend to all
cases arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States and treaties made, or to be made under their authority'
&c." By the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1-789,' made
in pursuance of this provision of the Constitution, it is enacted
"That a final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
Court of law or equity of a state in which a decision ih the suit
could be had, where is draivn in question the construction of
any statute of the United States, and the decision is againsi
the title or right, cc., specially set up or claimed by either party, &c., under such statute, Fc.. may be. re-e.ainied and re-

664

SUPREME COURT.

(Ross v. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
versed or affirmed,. by the Supreme Court of the United Statcs,
upqn a writ of error."
In this case, the titles of both parties are derived under an
,Actof Congress; the construction 6f the statute is drawn directly in question; and the decision of the highest Court of
Law of the state, is against title thd right of the party, specially set up in his-defence under the statute. This case is liot distinguishable from the case of-Matthews vs. Zane, 4 Cr'anz, 385,
in which thekjurisdictlon of this Court was maintained.
For the plaintiff in error, it is argued, that the state Court
erred in deciding that the elder grant should not prevail in the
action of ejectmet.
It isundouhtedly true, that upon common.law principles the
legal title should prevail in the action of ejectment, upon the
sme grounds that the legal right prevails in other actions in
Courts of Law. It is so held in those states in which the principles of the common law are carried into full eftect, and the.
course of proceedifig in the action of ejectment are according
to those principles.. In tht. states where these principles prc
vail, it is held,that in a trial at law the Cpurts will not look
behind, or beyond: a grant, to the rights upoi which it is founded; nbr examine the progressive-tages of the title, antecedent
to the grant.
But in other states, the Courts of Law proceed upon other
principles. In the action of ejectment, they look beyond the
grant, and examine the progressive stages of the-title, from its
incipient state, whether by warrant, suryey, entry, or certificate,
until its final consummation by grant; and if found regular and
according to law, in these progressive stages, the grant is held
to relate back to the inception of the right and to have dignity
accordingly.
This latter course, seems to be the one adoptcd and pursued
by the Courts of Mississippi. ' It is enough for us to say, that
iii so doing, and in applying their peculiar mode of procecding
to titles derived through and under'the laws of the United
States, they violated no provisions of any statute of the United
States.
•The important question in the case is this: In applying its
own principles and practice in the action of ejectment, as might
well be done to this case, has the Court misconstrued the Act
of Congress, indeciding that the grant of the plaintiff, emanating upon the donation certificate of the Board of Commissioners, west of Pearl river; set forth in the record, would overreach
the defendant's grant, and should prevail against it in the ac"ion, of ejectment?
This draws in question the construction of the Act of Congress of 180-3. and gives this Court jurisdiction of the case.

3ANUARY TERM,\4 18Z8.

6r5

Doe on the demise of Barland et aL)
(Ross mu.
It is well known, that prior to the treaty of San Lorenzo, of the
e7th of, October 1795, controversics had long existed between
the United Statcs and his Catholic Majesty, on the subject of
the boundaries which separated the United States, and the
Spanish provinces of East and-Vest Florida. The second
article of that treaty declares "That the southern boundary of the United States, which divides their territory from
the Spanish colonies of Ea~t and XVest Florida, shall be designated by a line beginning on the Mississippi river, at the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of latitude, north of the
equator, which, from thence, shall be drawn due east to the
middle of the river Appalachicola,". &c. And it is agreed, that
if there should be any troops, garrisons, or settlemefits" of
either party, in the territory of the other, according to the
above mentioned boundaries, they should be withdrawn from
the said territory, within the term of six months, after the ra
tification of this treaty, or sooner if it be possible.
It is matter of public history, that there were Spanish
troops, garrisons, and settlements north of this boundary, and
within the territory of the United States; which were not
withdrawn, till long after the time stipulated by the treaty.
By the second section of the before recited Act of Congress, of
the 3d of March 1803; it is enacted "1That to every person, or to
the'legal representative or representatives of every person, who,.
either being the head of a family, or of twenty-one years 'of
age, did, on that day of the year 1797, when the Mississippi
territory was finally evacuated by the Spanish troops, actually
inhabit and cultivate a tract of land in the said territory, &c.
the said tract of land 'thus inhabited -and cultivate4 shall be
granted, provided, however, that not more than one tract shall
be thus granted to uny one person, and the 'same shall not contain more than 640 acres; and provided that this donation shall
not be made to any person who'claihis any other tract of land
in the said territory, by virtue of any British, or' Spanish.
grant, or order of survey."
The sixth section of the Adt provides for the establishment
of two Boards of Commissioners, one east and the other west
of Pearl river, in said territory; "for the purpose of ascertaining the rights of persons claiming the benefit of the articles of
agreement and cession between the United States and state
of Georgia, or of the three first sections of this Act. And
each Board, or a majority of each Board, shall, in their respective districts, have power to hear and decide in a summary
manner, all matters respecting such claims; also to administer
oaths and examine witnesses, and such other testimony, as may
be addilced, and to determine thereon, according to justice and
equity; which determination, so far as relates to any righMs
VoL. L
4P

666

SUPREME COURT.

(Ross vs. Doe oni the demise of Barland et a.)
derived from the articles of agreement aforesaid, or from thc
Ebree first sections of this Act, shall be final."
The eleventh section" provides "That the-lands. for which
certificates of any description whatsoever shal haye been
granted by the commissioners, in pursuance:of the provisions
of this Act, shall, as soon as may be, be surveyed.. And the
said surveyor shall cause all the other lands of the United
States, in the Mississippi territory, to be surveyed."
And the twelfth section provides, that all the lands afore-.
said, not otherwise disposed of or excepted, by virtue of the
p-ovisions of the preceding sections of this Act, shall (with
certain other reservations and exceptions) be offered for sale.
As, such lands only were authorized to be offered for sale, as
had not been appropriated by the previous sections of the law,
and certificates granted by the commissioners, in pursuance
thereof; it follows, incontestably that the right of the plaintiff in. the ejectment, derived from a donation certificate, is superior to that of the defendant, derived from a purchase at the
sales, unless there is some fatal infirmity in the certificate,
-which renders it void. This has not been contested.
But it is objected to this certificate:1. That it is not a donation certificate.
9. That it is not sufficiently precise, and does not aver all
the facts necessary to authorize the commissioners. to grant a
certificate.
S. The period of occupancy, is alleged to be the 30th of
March 1798.
The -answer to the first objection is, that the certificate is
grahted for 640 acres of. land, the precise quantity for which
a donation certificate was authorized.
This is sufficient evidence of the infention of the Board of
Commissioners, to grant a dofiationcertificate. The period of
occupancy, too, fits the case of a donatfon certificate, or none;
and, if necessary, fortifies the conclusion of its being granted
as a donation certificate.
To the second objection, it ma be answered, that the law
requires no precise form in the certificate. It is sufficient, if
the proofs be exhibited to the Board of Cormmissioners, to satisfy them of the facts entitling the party to the certificate.
The facts need not be spredd upon the record. It is sufficient,
if the consideration, to -vit, the occupancy, and the quantity
granted, appear
Nothing, more is necessary to. certify to the government of
the party's right; or to enable him, after it is surveyed by the
proper officer, to obtain a patent.
The objection, that the occupancy ;s stated to be on the
50th of March 1798, produces more difficulty

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

667

(Ross vs. Doe on the demise of Barland et al.)
The language of the second section of the Act of Congress.
authorizing these donation claims, is, that the persons, who ort
that day of the year 1797, when the Mississippi territory was
finally evacuated by the Spanish troops, &c.
This language is very peculiar, and shows plainly, that, altlibugh Congress at the time of passing the law was certain
of the fact of evacuation by the Spanish troops, that body
was not informed of the precise time when the evacuation
took place.
The'law was intended to confer a bounty on a numerous
class of individuals; and in construing the ambiguous words
of-the section, it is the duty of the Co'urt to adopt that construction which wilLbest effect the liberal intentions of the legislature.
To iqterpret this section literallyl that land should be granted to-those, who, on the same day of the year 1797 o;ccupied
a tract of land, provided the Spanish troops finally evacuated
the territory, and on that very day of that very year 1797,
would totally defeat the operation of the law, and the bounty
intended by it; if it should, have happened, that the final evacuation of the territory, by the Spanish troops, took place on
the first day of January 1798, or on any subsequent day.
if an individual had inhabited and cultivated a tract of land
every day in the year 1797, still, according to the letter of this
section, he was not entitled to-the bounty of the government,
because the Spanish trobps had pot evacuated the territory aniy
day of that year, but some day of the next year;, and -although
the party continued to occupy the land until the day of the ac.
tual evacuation, still, he could not be entitled, according to
the letter of the Act, because that day was not any day of the
year 1797.
This could not he the intention of Congress. The country had been settled during the conflict on the subject of
boundaries, between Spain and the United States, by the'citizens and subjects of both governments. It was a weak and exposed frontier of -the United States. The maniffest general intent of the Act of Congress, -is to confer a bounty .upbn the in-habitants and cultivators of the soil, who elected to remain in
the country at the time of the actual evacuation by the Spanish
tr6os. In this -view of the 4ubject, the time of the actual evacuation was very important, but whether it was on some'day
in the year 1797 or 1798, was comparatively unimportant.
If the fact be supposed, and it must be supposed foi the sake
of the argument, that the actual tvacnation took place on the
30th of March, 1791, then something must be rejected in the
construction and interpretation of the Act of Gbngress to
make the provisions of the law effectial. Either the 'words

-

668

SUPREME COURT.
(Ross m. Doe on the demise of BIrand et a].)

"of t1e year 1797" must be rejected as inconsistent with the
main scope and general intent of the law, or the claims to donations of all the inhabitants and cultivators, west of Pearl
river, must be defeated. This would but defeat the manifest
general intent of the law.
It was said at the bar, that all the donation certificates west
of the Pearl river express to be for occupancy on the 80th day
of March, 1798, and a certificate from the commissioners of
the general .land-office, to that effect, was produced. It is not
necessary to decide Whether we can, or cannot, notice this certificate as evidence of, the fact that the evacuation took place
on that day, or as evidence of the construction given by the
Board-of Commissioners west of Pearl river. It is sufficient
if they were authorized tb give such construction to the Act,
in the event supposed, that the event happened; or in other
words, that the actual evacuatioi took place on the S0th of
March, 1798, as supposed in the argument; and that the bonstruction of the 9d section of the Act 'of Congress, which we
are disposed to adopt, is the true construction in the estimation of Congress itself; we thinkl, may fairly be inferred from
the Act of Congress of the 21st of April, 1806. ' Thei4th section of that'Act provides, that "wherever it shall appear to
.the satisfaction of the register and the receiver of the district
east of Pearl river, that the settlement and occupancy, by virtue
of which a pre-emption certificate had been granted by the
commissioners, had been made and taken place plior to the
S0th of March, 1798, they shall be authoiized to grant to the
party a donation certificate, in lieu of such pre-emption."
It appears, from this section, that the commissioners east of
Pearl river had adopted the construction of the Act of 1803,
contended for by the plaiptiff in error; and that, instead of
granting donation certificates to 'the inhabitants and settlers,
down to the peripd of the S0th of March, 1798, under the .d
section of the Act, they had granted pre-emption certificates,
under the provisions of the Sd section., Congress treat this as
a mistaken construction of the.law, by directing donation certificat s to be made out in lieu of the pre-emption certificates.
The Act of -180S puts the settlers east and west of Pearl ri-"
ver on precisely the .same footing, and it is inconceivable, that
Congress could have any motive for giving those east of Pearl
river any preference-by the Act of 1806; or that -the Act could
have any other object) than to continue upon the same footing the settlers, east and west of Pearl river.
The certificate granted ih the case before iis, is sufficient
evidence that the commissioners west of Pearl rivet adopted a
inore liberal construction; such as we think they were war-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

669

(Ross vs. Doe on the derise of Baland et A.)

ranted in adopting, and such as, we think, is manifestly sanctioned by Congress, in the Act of 1806.
It is the opinion of this Court, that the commissioners were
authorized to hear evidence as to the time of the actual evacuation of the territory by Spanish trops, and.to decide upqn
the fact. The law gave them ".power to hear and decide all
matters respecting such claims, and to determine thereon, according to justice and to'equity ;" and declares their determination shall be final
We aie bound to presume that every fact necessary to warrant the certificate, in the terms of it, was proved before the

commissioners; and that, consequently, it was shown to them;
and the final evacuation of the territory by the Spanish troops
took pracelon the 80th of March, 1798.
Upon the whole, it is the unanimous opinion of this Court,
that thi Supreme Court of the state of Mississippi hAs not
misconstrued the Act of Congress, fromwhich the rights of the
parties are derived; and that thb judgment .of the Supreme
Court be affirmed.
This cause came on, &c., on consideration whereof,"It is
the opinion of this Court that the Supreme Court of the state
of MississipRi.has not misconstrued the Act of Congress on
which the plaintiff below relies; and it is therefore adjudged
and ordered by this Court, that the judgment of said Supreme
Court of the state of ,Mississippi be, and the same is, hereby

affirmed, with cost.

