SUPREME COURT.

CHTISTIAN BREITHAUPT, AND HENRY SHULTZ, DEFENDANTS BI
LOW, vs. TjE BANK OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, AND OTHERS.

The complainants are stated, in the bill, to be citizens of the state of South
Carolina. The defendant, the Bank of Georgia, is a body corporate, ex-;
isting under an Act of the legislature; but the citizenshfip of the individual cbrporators is not stated. The averment, in the original bill, is, that

William B. Bullock and Samuel Hale are citizens of Georgia, and residents therein; William B. Bullock is afterwards designated in the bill, as
"President of the Mother Bank, and Samuel Hale, as the President of
the Branch Bank at Augusta, in the state of Georgia." The Courts of
the United States have no jurisdiction of the case. 'The record does not
show that the defendants were citizens of Georgia, nor are there any dis-

tinct allegations that the stockholders of the Bank, were citizens of that
state.
THIS was a bill, filed in the Circuit Court, for the district
of Georgia, and the case came up, on a certificate of a division of opinion, which the judges ordered to be entered upon
tbese points.First, whether the complainants are entitled to relief?
Secondly, -hat relief should be decreed to them ?
The only question presented for the decision of this Court,
was, whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the cause.
It was alleged, there is no sufficient averment on the record,
of the citizenship of the parties.
The complainants, Henry Shultz, and Christian Breithaupt,
are stated to be citizens of the state of South Carolina. The
defendant, The Bank of the State of Georgia, is a body corporate; but the citizenship of the individual corporators is not
.'tated. The averment, in the original bill, is, that "William
B. Bullock, and Samuel Hale, are citizens of Georgia, residents therein." William B. Bullock is subsequently designated, as "President of the Mother Bank, and Samuel Hale, as
President of the Branch Bank at Augusta, in the state of Georgia." There are three amendments to the bill, but there is,
in none of them, any further averments. The answer denies
the jurisdistion.
The defendant's counsel insisted, that the citizenship of the
individual corporators should have been alleged; and that the
want of jurisdiction is apparent upon the face of the record.
Mvlr. M'Duffie, in support of the jurisdiction of the Court,
contended, that the objection to the jurisdiction was founded
on a misapprehension of the decisions of this Court. None
of those decisions go further than to say, that if, on the face of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

939

(Breithaupt et al. vs. The Bank of Georgia et al.)
the record, it appears that there are parties, who are not citizens of another state, the Courts of the United -States will not
accept jurisdiction.
In the bill, the complainants are said to be citizens of South
Carolina; and William B. Bullock, the President of the Mother Bank, and Samuel'Hale, the President of the Branch
Bank, are citizens of the state of Georgia; and there is no
ground for the allegation, that other persons, not citizens of
the state, are interested. The party who claims the jurisdiction, is not bound to prove that no other'persons, but citizens
of Georgia, are interestedi.
The Bank exists under an Act of Incorporation, passed by
the state of Georgia, and this Court will look at the Act;
which having a general operation, may be considered as a plblic Act. 1 Black. Com. 85. If this-is done by the Court, they
cannot say others than citizens of Georgia, are members of the
Corporation. Cases cited, in which the question of jurisdiction has been examined: 3 Dal 382, Cabot vs. Bingham. 5
Cranch, 57. 3 Cranch, 967. 3 Wheat. 591.
The policy of the Constitution, in relation to jurisdiction, is
to include suits against corporations, although all who are interested, are not citizens of the same state. •
The influence of such corporations, in the state where thev
exist,makes this appeal to other than state tribunals, expedient. When an action is instituted against trustees bycitizens of
another'state, would the jurisdiction of the Courts of the United
States be taken away, b)showingthat some of those who had a fiduciary interest, were not citizens of the same statewith the trustees? The question must be settled, by adverting to the local
usages of Georgia; and there suits are brought against the indl'viduals who represent the Bank.
Mr. Bt:rien, and Mr. Wilde, for the defendant.
The pleadings show.that there is no allegation of citizenship
in the stockholders of the bank, the owners'of its funds; and
the point is fully settled, that all the parties who are sued, shall
be averred to be citizens of another state, from that of the plaintiff or complainant in the suit.
A body corporate, as such,'is incapable of citizenship, accqrding to the true meaning of the law giving jurisdiction.
This Court has decided, that they will go behind the act of
incorporation, and ascertain the character of 'the individual
corporators, and if they find them citizens of another state.
the suit may be maintained; but there must be an averment
of such citizenship, as to every stockholder. 5 Cr~nch, 57. 6
Wheat. 146.
The possession of the fund cannot give the Court jurisdiction, as that was the possession ofia corporation. No jtdris-

240

SUPREME COURT

(Breitiaupt et al. w. The Bank of Georgia et a.)
diction can be obtained, because of the difficulties in suits
against the corporation of one state, by citizens of anothcr;
and it is denied that any such difficulties exst in Georgia.
By the Court.-This is not a case within the jurisdiction ol
the Courts of the United States. The record does not show,
.that the defendants were citizens of Georgia, nor are there anj
distinct Allegations or averments, that the same was the fact,
as to the stockholders in the bank.
This cause came on, &-c., on consideration whereof, Thi
Cdurt is of opinion, that as the bill does not aver that the corporators of the Bank of the State of Georgia, which bank is
defendant in the suit,- are citizens of the state of Georgia, the
Circuit Court has no jurisdiction of the cause, and can grant
no-relief. It is therefore ordered to be certified to the Circuit
Court, as the opinion of this Court, that in the present state of
the pleadings, it not appearing that the defendants are citizens
'of the state of Georgia, the complainants are not entitled to relief in that Court.

