JANUARY TERM, I8M8.

THE AmmuA hIsuRA Ncn ComPAnY, AND THE OcEAN lNsURA cE
COMPANY, (or NEW-YORK,) APPELLANTS, v3. 356 BAEms or
Coro-.%, DAVID CAN XIER CLAIMANT AND APPELLEE.
The Constitution of the United States confers, absolutely, on the governn nt
of the U-non, the power of making war, and of making.treaties. Conse.
quently, that government possesses the power of acquiring terrlitory, either
by conquest or by treaty. 15421
The usage of the World is, if a nation be not entirely subdued, to consider
the holding of conquered territory as a mere military occupation, until its
fate shall be determinhed at the treaty of peace. Ifit be ceded by treaty,
the acquisition is confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of the
nation to'which it is annexed; e:'her on the terms stipfilated in the treaty
of cession, or on such as its niiw master shall impose. On such transfer of
territory, it has never been held, that the relations of the inhabitants with
each other undergo any change. Their relationswith their former sovereign are dissolved, and new relations are created between them and the
government which has acquired their territory. The same act *hich transfers their' country, transfers the allegiance of those who remain in it, and
the law, which maybe denominated political, is, necessarily, changed; al-.
though that which regulates the intercourse and general conduct of individuals, remains in force, until altered by the newly created power of the
state. {5421
The treaty with Spain, by which Florida was ceded to the United States, is
the law of the'land, and admits the inhabitants of Florida to the enjoyment
of the privileges, rights, and immunities ofthe citizens of the United States.
They do not however participate in political power; they do not share in
the government, until Florida shall become a state. In the mean time Florida continues td be a territory of the United States, governed by virtue
of that clausdin the Constitution, which empowers "Congress to make all
needful rfles and regulations, respecting the territory, or other property
belonging to the United States." 1542.
The powers of the territnfil legislature *Florida, extend to all rightful ob.
jects of legislation; subject to the reitriction, that their laws shall not be
"inconsisteht with the laws and Conptitution of the United States." {5431
Alf the laws which were in force in'FloHda while a province of Spain, those
excepted which -were political-in thlir character, which concerned the relations be;ween the peopleand their sovereign, remained in forte until altered by the-government of the United States. Congress recognises this
principle, by using the w 6rds-"laws of the territory now in force therein."
No laws could, then, have been-in force but those enaoted by the Spanish
government. Ifamong them thereexisted a lawon the subject of salvage,
and it is scarcely possible there shouldnot have been such a law, jurisdiction over it, was conferred by the Act of Congress relatie to the territory
of Florida, on the Superior Court- but thatjurisdiction was not exclusive.
A territorial Act, contrringjurisdiction'over the same cases as an inferior
Court, would not have been ificonslsqent with the seventh section of the
Act, vesting the whole judicial power of the territory in two Superior
Courts, and in such inferior UCourts, and Justices of the Peage, as the legislative council ofthe terlitory may from time to time establish." -15441

SUPREME COURT.
(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
The eleventh section of the Act declares "that the laws of the United Statel
relating to the revenue and its collection, and all other public Acts not
inconsistent or repupnant to the Act, shall extend to and -have full force
and effect in the terrtory of Florida." Thelaws Which are extendedlo the
territory by this section, hre either for the punishment of, crimes, or for
civil purposes. Jurisdiction is given in aU criminal cases by the seventh
section, butin civil cases, that section gives jurisdiction only in those which
arise under, and arecognizable by the laws of the territory. Consequently,
all ciVil cases arising under the laws which are extended to the territory
by the eleventh section, are cognizible in the territorial Courts by virtue
of the eighth section- and in those cases, the Superior Courts may exercise
the sae' jurisdiction as is exercised by the Court for the Kentucky di§trict. {544}
The Constitution and lais of the United States give jurisdiction to the Dis.
tljct Courts, over all cases in admiralty; but jdirisdiction over the case, does
not constitute the case ielf. {5451
The Constitution declares that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases
in law and equity arising under it-the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made under tlheir authori;-to all cases affecting hmbassadors, other'pubi6 ministers and'consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritimne jurisdiction." 'The Constitution certainly contem.
plates these as three distind caiss of cesa; and if they are distinct, the
grant of jurisdiction over one of them, does not confe4 jurisdiction over
either of the. othKer two. The discrimination made between them is conelusive against their identity. {545}
A case in admiralty doeg not, in fact, arise under the Constitution or laws of
the Vnited States. These cases are as old as navigation itself; and the law
admiralty and maritime, as it existed for ages, is applied by our Courts to
the cases as they arise. Itis not then to theeighth section of the teMito.'
rid Ael, that we are to look for the grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in the territorial Courts of Florida. Consequently, if thatjunsdie.fie/ is exclusive, it is not made so by the reference in the Act of Congress
to the District Court of Kentucky. 1545
TheJudges of the Superi6r Courts of Florida hold their offices for fbur years.
These Courts, ther.are not Constitutional Courts, in which -e judicial
powers conferred by the O6nstitution on the general govern~meiit can be
deposited. They are incapable of receiving it. Theyarelegislative Courts,
the
exists
sovereignty,
ofwhich
he general
created in virtue
to in
make
enables,which
Congress
clause
of that right
or inofvirtde
government;
ju.
Sttes. The
to the'United
belonging
the territories
laws regulating
power,
a part of tbatjutdicil
is not
they.are inv'ested,
with which
.sisdiction
which is defined in the third article ofrhe Constitutioni,but is coofqred by
Congress in tbe exercise of its powers seer the territories of the United
546} jurisdiction can be exercised in the states,in those Courts
States. admiralty
Although
only which are established in pursuance of the third iniicle of the Consti.
tution, the same lirmtation doqs not extend to the territories. In legoislating for them, Congress exercises the combined powers of the general and
state governments. 546j,'
The Act ofthe teiritorial legislature of Florida, erecting a Court which proceeded undr the provisions of the law to decree, for salvage, the sale of
a cargo of a vessel which bad been stranded, and ,'high cargo had been
brought within the territorial limits, is not ifnconsistent with the laws and
Constitution ofthe United States, and is valid; and consequently a sale of
the-property made in pursuance of it changed the property. 15461

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

51$

(The American Insurance Company et a).vs. Canter.)
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the District of South Carolina.
The libel filed in this cause in the District Court of South
Carolina, on the 18th April, 1825, alleged that five hundred
and eighty-four bales of cotton, insured by the libellants, were
shipped on board the ship Point a Petre, on . voyage from
,New-Orleans to Havre de Grace in France, and was in February, 1825, wrecked on the coast of Florida;from which it was
saved, and carried into Key West, in the territory of Florida,
wvhere it was sold, without any previous adjudication by a Court
of competent jurisdiction, for the ostensible purposeof satisfying
a claim for salvage, amounting to seventy-six per cent, of the property saved. That the cotton thus insured, was abandoned to
the underwriters, the libellants, and the abandonment was accepted by them on the 10th March, 1825.-That part of the
cargo, amounting to one hundred and forty bales, subsequently
arrived in the port of New-York, and was there proceeded
against by the libellants, as their property under the abandonment. That another part of the cargo, amounting to between.
three hundred and thiee hundred and fifty-sixbales, had arrived in the port of Charleston, within the jurisdiction of the Court,
in the possession of one David Canter, and was fraudulently
sold in Charleston, at auction, on the 13th of April, 1825. Restitution of this last mentioned part was therefore prayed by the
libellants, and process was issued against the said Canter in
personam.
The marshal returned to the warrant that he had taken one
hundred and sixty bales of cotton, and the person of Canter. Fifty-four bales of the cotton, specifically brought into Court, were
ordered to be sold and the proceeds paid into the Registry; and
the supposed value of the remainder in dispute, to be secured
by stipulation.
David Canter filed his answer claiming three hundred-and
fifty-six bales of cotton, as a bonafide purchaser, under a sale at
public auction at Key West, by virtue of the decree of a certain
'Court consisting of a Notary andfive Jurors,proceeding under
an Act of the Governor and Legislative Council of Florida,
passed the 4th of July, 1823, which decree awarded.to the salvors seventy-six per cent. on the nett proceeds of sale.
The testimony of witnesses was taken, and other evidence
produced, relating to the title of the libellants under tlbe insurances and abandonments thereon, and to the proceedings in the
Court at Key West.
The District Judge pronounced the proceedings in the Couri
at tey West a nullity; but decreed restitution to the libellants
of thirty-nine bales of the cotton only, (deducting a salvage of
VoL.L
s T.

514

SUPREME COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
fifty per cent. ;) considering the evidence of the identity of the
residue, as insufficient to establish their proprietary interest.
- The libellants and clainant both appealed from this decree
to the Circuit Court.
Further testimony was taken in the Circuit Couit; and at
the hearing, the .tecree of the'District Court was reversed, and
the entire cotton decreed to the claimant with costs ; upon the
ground that the proceedings of the Court at Key West were legal, and transferred the property to the alleget purchaser under them.
From this decree the libellants appealed tq this Court.
The 'documents exhibited and evidence -taken in the case*
showed that threehundred and thirty-three bales of the cotton,
on bbard the Point a Petre,were insured by the American, and
three hnndred and fifty-one by the Ocean office. The whole cargo of the ship consisted of eight hundred and ninety-one bales,
but to whom the other three hundred and seventeen bales belonged, did not appear. The ship sailed on the voyage insured
on the 17th February 1825, and was wrecked on Carysforth
Reef, on the east coast of West Florida, about eight milesfrom
the shore.. She filled wiih water, and was abandoned by the
captain and crew.
In the depositions taken in the cause, it was stated, that
when the vessel was first seen, she was filled with water, abandoned, bilged, and lying on her broad side. The cotton was
taken out of her, hove into the sea, rafts made of it, towed iiaside of the reef, and then put on board of vessels. The captain
of the ship was picked up on the shore with his men, about
fourteen miles from the wreck, and he went with the.salvors to
Key West, where the property saved was carried ; and the proceedings for salvage were at Key West, carried on, as was alleged, with the co-operation and concurrence of the master of
the ship.
The danger in sating the propety was said to have been
very great, the weather to have been stormy, some of the men
were injured, and.the saving was done duringthe night as well
as the day; most of the cotton was much injured.
After the sale, the agent of the ippellants, Mr. Ogden, came
on from New York to Key West, for the purpose of attending
the sale, and he expressed his willingness to pay to. the purchasers of the cotton, a considerable sum, beyond what had been
paid*for it at'the sale.
• It was also, in evidence, that the marks on the cotton were
defaced; and that the efforts to ascertain thb particular marks
on that imported into Charleston by the appellee, were, te a
great extent, without success. A large portion of- the cotton
brought to Charleston by the claimiant, was sold at auction as

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

5151

vs. Canter.)
(The American Insurance Company et al.
damaged cotton. An agreement between the two insurance
companies, the appellants, was made previous to the institu,tion of the suit, that the same should be for their joint benefit.
David Canter, the appellee, claimed three hundred and fiftysix bales of the cotton, as a bona fide purchaser under the decree of the Court of 'Key West, instituted by, and proceeding under a law of the Legislative Council of Florida, passed
4th July 1823; which decree awarded seventy-six per cent. to
the salvors, of the net'proceeds of the sale.'
The appellants filed the following "reas6ns of appeal."
That the decision of the Circuit Court is erroneous, inasmuch as the said tribunal at Key West was not legally organized, nor of competent jurisdiction in the premises.
1st. Because the Constitution and laws of the United States
are of full force and effect within t.e territory of Florida.
2d. Because jurisdiction of salvage was not a rightful subject of legisliition, with the Floridian government; and the
wrecking law enacted by the same, is, in various respects, inconsistent with the said Constitution and laws.
3d. Because the Superior Courts of the said territory are
vested with plenary and exclusive jurisdiction over all-admiralty and maritime cases; and this was a case of that description.
. 4th. Because, even if the jurisdiction of the said Courts were
confined to "cases arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States,"--this was a case of that class.
5th. Because the said Superior Courts were vested with original cognizance in all eases, where the amount in issue exceeded the value of one hundred dollars.*
' The Reporter acknowledgds withpleasure, his obligations to Mr.Justice
Johnson, by.whom he has been furnished with a copy of the opinion dellvered: by him on the decision of this case.
Mr. Justice JoHNsorN.-This case comes up on a cross appeal, from a
decision of the District Court, adjudging a part o.the res su'eda to the tibellants, and the residue to the clainmants.
The decree establishes the right of the parties libellant to recover, but
dismisses the libel as to a great proportion of the cotton, on the ground of
a defect of evidence to identify it.
From the pleadings and testimony, it appears that the libellants were insurers to a large amount'on a quantity of cotton shipped by certaifi individuals, in the French ship point a Petre, on a voyage from7Orleans to Havre. That the ship was stranded and lost on the coast of Florida, and the
cotton abandoned to these underwriters. That the cotton libelled, was a
part of the cargo of the Point a Petre, is admitted; .but it appears, that after being saved from the wrepk,, it was deposited at Key West, where it was
sold and purchased by Canter the claimant, under the.order of a municipal
Court, constituted under a law of Florida, with jurisdiction over cases of
salvage.
The preliminary question aldne, has now been argued, to wit, whether

516

SUPREME COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et a]. vs. Canter.)
David Canter claimed all the cotton except thirty-nine bales
on the ground:
the sale by that Court was effectual to divest the interest of the under.
writers.
The general principle is not denied, as to the mutations of property,
which takes place through the intervention of Courts of J.ustice; but it was
argued that the Constitution of the United States vests the admiralty jurisdiction exclusively in the general government-that no state can exercise
a concurrent jurisdiction over admiralty and maritime causes, and that salvage was of that description. Wherefore the legislature of Florida had,
in organizing this Court, exercised a power not legally vested in it, and the
Act constituting it, being a void Act, it was as though no such Court existed. That moreover, the nullity of that Court did not rest merely qin an inherent want of power to constitute it, but on positive prohibition contained
in the Acts org'anizing the government of the territory to pass any laws contrary to the laws and Constitution of the United States. Thatt the Act organizing this Court, was an Act of this nature, inasmuch as jurisdiction of
causes, admiralty and maritime, were expressly vested in the Superior
Courts of Florida ; and, that, without the right of ex~rcising a concurrent
p~ower over the subject, vesting this jurisdiction in an inferior Court, is
qluoad hzoc,divesting the Superior Court of its jurisdhdtion, and rendering
null the Act of Congr'ess', which vests tfle admiralty jurisdiction in that
aloue.

On'the other hand, it has been contended, that salvage is a subject of
municipal and common law cognizance,- not exclusively belonging to the
admiralty ; that although the Constitution may vest the exclusive cognizance of admiralty and maritime causes in the United States, in those instances in which the admiralty at the adoption of the Constitution, had exclusive jurisdiction of the subject, yet, in those cases, in which the common
law exercised a concurrent jurisdiction with the admiralty, there is no rea son tor carryng the grant beyond a concurrent jurisdiction with the common law Courts of the sates.
Thatthe Court which ordered this sale, was properly a municipal Court, and
a Court of a separate sodl distinctjurisdiction from the Courts of the United
tates, and as such, its acts are not to be reviewed in a foreign tribunal; of"
which description it was contended, were the Courts of the United States
for South Carolina District. That the District of Florida was no part of the
United Statcs, but only an acqisition or dependency, and as such the Conbtltution, per ,e, had no binding effect in or over it ; and finally that the argument drawn from the assumed fact, that the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction was by law expressly vested in another Court, originates in a
misconstruction of the law, inasmuch as no Act of Congress vests in the Sutperior Court .any other portion of the jurisdiction of the Kentucky Court,
than that of causes arising under the laws of the United States ; that this
is not a cause of that description, it is one arising under a casualty in which
no law of te United States came necessarily under review.
To ibis it was replied, that it wvas a cause arising under a law of the Unit.
ed States, and-the ease of Osborne vs. The Bank of the United States, was
quoted sod insisted on as furnishning a decision in point. That if the cause
there was one of that description, because the Bank was incorporated by a
law of the United States, for the same reason was this It cause of that description, becausethe body politic here was like the body corporate there, created by a law of the United States and, if at every step" there, the Court"

JANUARY TERM, 189,.

517

(The American insurance Company et a]. ve. Canter.)

F rst, That hd was in the possessiop of it, not torti6usly, but
as a bonafide purchaser, andthat that possession; thus acquirwas met by the law which made the one a bank, gave it power to make
by laws, and to act under those by-laws, so Was it equally met hie, bk the
laws which made this a state, gave it power to legislate; and legalized
this transfer of property, under laws, which without the laws of the United
States, were mere nullities.
It becomes indispensable to the solution of these difficulties, thatwe
should conceive a just idea of the relation in which Florida stands to the
United States; and give a correct construction to the second section of the
Act of Congress, of May the 26th, 1824, respeciing the territoral governmient of Florida; correct views on these two subjects, will dispose of allthe
points that have been considered in argument.
And first, it is obvious, that there is a material distinction between the
territory now under consideration, and that which.is acquired from the aborigines (whether by purchase or conquest,)'tvldrz the acknowledged limits
of the United States, as also that which is acquired by the establishmefit of
a disputed line. As to both these there can he no question, that the sovereignty of the state or territory within which it lies, and of the United
States, immediately attach, prodcing a complete subjection to all the laws
and institutions of the two goveraanents, local and general, unless modified
by treaty.
The question now to be considered, relates to territories previously subject to the acknowledged jurisdlction of another sovereign; such as was
Florida to the crown of Spain. And on thistubject, we have the most explicit proof, that tlh understanding of our public functionaries, is, that the
government and laws of the United States do not extend to such territory
by the mere Act of cession. For, in the Act of Congress, of March 3011,
1822, section 9th, we have an enumeration of the Acts of Congress, which
are to be held in force in the territory ; and, in the 10th section an enumeration, in nature of a bill of rights, of privileges, and immunities which could
not be denied to the inhabitants of -the territory, if they came under the
Constitution by the mere Act of cession.
As, however, the opinion of our public funttionaries is not conclusive, we
will review the provisions of the Constitution on this subject.
At the time the Constitution was formed, the limits of the territory over
which it was to operate were generally defined and recogni.sed. These limits
consisted in part, of organized states, and in part of territories, the absolute
property and dependentcies.of the United States. These states, this territory, and future states to be admitted into the Union, are the sole objects of
the Constitution; there is no express provision whatever made in the Constitution tbr the acquisition or government of territories beyond those limits.
The right, therefore, of-acquiring territory is altogether incidental to the
treaty-making power, and perhaps to the power of admittin " new states
into the-Union; and the government of such acquisitions is, of course, left to
the legislative power of the Union, as far as that power is uncontrouled
by treaty. By the latter we acquire either positively or sub mnodo, and by
the former dispose of acquisitions so made; and in case 9f such acquisitions,
I see nothing in which the power acquired over the ceded territories, cair
vary from the power acquired under the law of nations by any other government over acquired or ceded territory. The laws, rights and institutions of the territory so acquired remain in full
force, until rightfully altered

518

SUPREME COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
ed, is good against all but the person who proves a better title
to this identical cotton.by the new government. In the present instance, however, the laws of Florida were not left to derive their force from general principles alone; for by
the 13th section of the same Act itis declared, "That the laws in force in
the said territory at the commencement of this Act, and not inconsistent
with the provisions thereof, shall continue in force until altered, modified or
repealed by the legislature.
From these views of the subject it results,
1st. That whatever may be the correct idea of the distribution of the ad
miralty jurisdictions as between the states and United States, it can have
no application here, since this territory does not stand in the relation of-a
state to the United States.
2ndly. 'hat whether salvage be of admiralty jurisdiction exclusively or
not, it is immaterial to this cause, since the whole power of legislation over
the subject in Florida, existed exclusively in the general government.
•
3dly. That the general pr inpo nternational law, on the immunities
of foreign courts and foreign decisions, have no application here; since the
Courts of Florida have a common origin with thi Court--our authority
flows from the same source-we are c Innected at the fountain head, go
vetoed- by the same legislative power, and have equal access to the lawp
which constitute and governs us. It follows, that neither can regard the decisions of the other, if acting withoty authority derived through the legislature of the Union.
The Act entitled "An Act for the establishment of a territorial govern.
ment in Florida," ameeia,
and the Acts in paM
of.thc 3d Mirch 1823, and
tin 26th May 184, constitute what may be properly termed the Constitu.
ton of Florida, -The first provides for the appointment of niexecutive, with
powers not material here to he considered. Itcontitbetes a Legisliture, organizes a Judiciary, and imposcs upon the one and the other, some enerarestrictions, subject to which they are empowered to exercise the legislative, judi ai and executive powers -which belong generally to an organized government.
The Act of March 1823 goes overthe sam ground, and repeals the
preceding
so farAct..
as the
provisions
of the
areeitherL
inconsistent
those of theAct
former
And
with regard
to latter
both, or
as llii aswith
the
latter remains unrepealed, the p osition' is incontrovertible, that the legislative power could enact nothing inconsistent wvith what Congress has made
inherent and permanent in the form of government of the.territory. Therefore, if the admiralty jitrisdition is made inherent in the Superior Courts,
it was not in the power of the territorial legislature t~transfer it to any inferior tribunal."
To determine this questie ",wemust examine the provisions of the several acts, touching the exercise of legislative and judicial power.
"Indefining the legislative power, the words of the Act of 1822 are these,
,th~y shall have power
t
alter, meaIny, or repeal the J
tw,
which ofy ae
in
force
at thetocommencement
this Act.of legisiation
These legislative
shll,.
also,
extend
all the rightfulofsubjects
;but nopotes'r
law shallbe
valid, which is inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the Unitedl
States, or which lay any person under restraint burtlienor disability, on
account of his religious opinion s, lrofessions or worship;tin alV which h*e
shall be free to maintain his own, and not to be burthe~ned with those of another."

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

519

(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter:)
Second.-That the salvors had a rightful lieu upon the chrgo
saved; that the captain of the Point a Petre was agent for-the
The language of the Act of 1823 is, "they shall have legislative power
ever all rightful subjects of legislation; but, no law shall be valid, which is
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States ; or, which
lay any person under restraint, &c."
That jurisdiction of salvage, is-a rightful subject of legislation, is not
to be questioned. The jurisdiction then vested by the legislature in this
municipal Court, must be sustained, unless inconsistent with the laws or
Constitution of the United States. But with the Constitution, in legislating
on the subject of salvage, there can be no incongruity; it is only therefore
the supposed inconsistency, with the Act of Congress of May 1824, that
can impugn it.
The provisions of that Act upon this subject, are these
"Each of the said Courts, (meaning the superior Courts of the district
of Florida,) shall moreover have and exercise the same jurisdiction within
its limits, in all caes arising under the aws and Constitution of the United
States, which, byan Act to establish the judicial Courts of the United States,
approved the 24th day of September 1789; and 'an Act in addition to the
Act entitled an Act, to establish the judicial Courts of thie United States,
approved the 2d March 1793, was. vested in the Court of Kentucky dis.
trict."
The question then is reduced to this, in what cases, arfsingunder the lawts
and Cbntitutiottrofthe UNited States, is jurisdlction vested in the Court of
Kentucky distriot; by the two Acts Qf the 24th September 1789, and the
2dof March 1793.
It has been erroneously qssumed, that all thejurisdictionvested by those
Acts in the Kentucky'Court, was vested by this law in the superior Court
of Florida; it is expressly confined to cases arisingunderthe laws and Constitution of the Unitid States; and the reason is-obvious. In all cases arising under the laws of the district, jurisdiction is given by the preceding
section of the same Act; but as most of the laws of the United States, had
been made of force in the territory as before observed, the 2d section is
intended to extend the jurisdiction of the Court to cases arising under the
latter laws, and'further, if necessary, to alf cases arising under laws of the
Uniited States, over which jurisdiction had been given to the Kentucky
Court--a practice in defining jurisdiction, that hadbeen pursued by Congrets, with-regard to all the territories subsequent to- the time when the
Kentucky Court was established.
In the original organization of the judiciary of the Unite(I States, Kentucky ind Maine were excluded from the arrangement of circuits. And,
as noCircuit Court was required in law to be held there, the District Court
was vesfed with CircuitCourt jurisdiction.-This is the whole pui'port of
the Act of 1789 referred to in the Florida Act of 1824: The -other Act
there referred to, to wit, that of 1793, has ilo other' oieration as -to the
Kentacky Court, besides vesting in it the power given to the Circuit Courts

to hold speeial sessions.
If the Florida Act were as brohdin its operation as the two Acts referred
to, it would indeed be ajserious'question, whether the legislature of Florida
could divest its superior Court of any part of its"admiralty jurisdiction, as
existing in and exercised by the District Courts of the United States. But
I-think it incontestable, that the jurisdiction here given is explicitly restricted to so much of the jurisdiction -of the Kentucky Cotut only, as comes

520

SUPREME COURT.

(Tbe American Insurance Company et a]. vs. Canter.)
underwriters, and had authority to settle the amount of thaf
cliim, either by agreement; or an award of third persons; that
-within the description of cases arisingunder the laws and Constitution of the
United States.
Now, excepting in the single insfance of the present Bank of the United
States,'Congress, never has-vested a jurisdiction even in its Circuit Courts,
§generally. over causes arisingunder the Constitution and laws of the United
b~tates. It has given an appellate jurisdiction, and that only to the Supreme
Court, over causes of that description, when such causes arise in the state
Courts, but we look in vain through the law defining the jurisdiction of the
any general claim to jurisdiction under the description
Kentucky Court for
of "cases arisinig under the laws and Constitution of the United States."
Yet, very ample .operation must be given to these words of the Florida
Act, considered in reference to the jurisdiction actually possessed and exercised by the Kentucky Court, under the twvo laws of 1789 and 1793. The
land laws, revenue laws, laws of trade, criminal laws, and many other public laws, were all laws of the United States, under which, cases might arise,
and over which the Kentucky Court, was undoubtedly vested with jurisdiction. Nor do I doubt, that the admiralty jurisdiction, over revenue cases,
as exercised by the Kentucky Court, is rightfully vested, (and that beyond
the contr'ol of the Florida legislaturc,) in the Superior Court of this district.
But here it appears to me, the grant of jurisdiction terminates. The admiralty jurisdiction, beyond this limit, is left to be administered under the
laws of the territory, for this simple reason, that other causes, occurring in
the admiralty, cannot be brought within this description of causes, arising
under the laws of the United States-at least, this appears incontrovertible,
when applied to questions of salvage arising on wreck of the sea-to questions of salvage on captures as prize of war, I am incelined to think it would
extend, at least, to all causes, in wvhich the distribution of prize money, depends upon laws of the United States.
But it is argued, that this is a cause arising under the laws of the United
States, within the reason of the dcision of the Supreme Court, in the case
of Osborne us. The Blank of the United States; that th1e validity of the sale,
divesting the interests of these libellants, depenlds upon the legality of the
powers, exercised by the Court of Key West, which depeinds upon the
powers vested in the legislature of Florida, wbiech finally depends upon the.
Acts of Congress, which created the body politic of Florida-that creating
a body politic, is only cm'ating a body corporate on a larger scale, but essentially the ex~rcise of one and the same power,-that whether the one or
the other sues or defenlds, legislates or acets, by itself or its al~ents, all must
l 1e done with reference to the law that creates and organizes it; and in fine,
in the language of the Court, in the case cited, "the charter, not only
creates it, but gidve it every faculty that it possesses. Trhepo~ver to acquire
rights of any description, to transact l1tisiness of any description, to sue on
those contracts, is given end measured by its charter, and that charter is a
law of the United States. This being, can acquire no right, make no contract, bring no suit, which is not iauthorized by a law of the United States.
It is not oly itself the mere creature Qf the law,, but all its actions, and all
its rights, are dependeut on the same'taw," &c.
I have taken a week to reflect upon this question alone, and I cannot
withhold from the gentleman, who argued the cause for the libellants, an
aeknowledgmnent, that I have not been able to draw any line of" discrimina-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

521

(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
lie applied to these third persons, and agreed to their proceedings, and to the sale; that the sale was afterwards ratified by
Ogden, the special agent of the underwriters.
tion, between this and the decided cause, which satisfies my mind. Yet, I
am thoroughly persuaded, that the learned men wh6 decided that dause, never contemplated that such an application would have been given of their
decision. I am happy in the prospect that this cause will finally.be disposed
of elsewhere, not doubting, that the mental acumen of those who decided
the other, -will be found fully adequate to distinguish or reconcile the two
cases, on grounds which have escaped my reflections. At present, I musf
content myself with observing, that it is too much to require of a Court,
upon mere analogy, to sustain an argument, that not only proves too much,
if it proves any thing, but which leads, in fact, to positive absurdity.
It will be recollected, that it is not only in the tferritories that we find bodies politic created by the laws of the United States, but that near one half
the states derive their origin and admission into the Union, under laws of
the United States. But will it be contended that all the causes arising under their laws, are causes arising under laws of the United States ? It is
true, that in the District of Columbia, the appellate jurisdiction given to the
Supreme Court, can be maintained only on the ground that the laws of that
district are laws of the United States; and that all the laws of the District of
Florida derive directly, or indirectly, their force from the same origin. But
in the case of the District of Columbia, this power is expressly given to the
Supreme Court, and we are not now inquiring whether Congress might
not have vested this jurisdiction in the Superior Court of Florida, but whether they have so vested it. The simple inquiry is, what force and operation is to be given to those woxls, in the second section of the Act of 1824,
"Jurisdiction in all cases arising under the laws and Constitution of theUnited States?" And what could be more absurd than to decide, that the
same force is to be given to those words as if they were not there. Expunge that sentence altogether, and the construction of the clause will be
necemsarily and precisely that contended-for by the libellants, to wit, an unrestricted grant of the jurisdiction vested by law in 'the Kentucky Court.
It not unfrequently happens, that in the construction of a whole law, or a
section, ororairreconcilable
clause of a law,
evenorsentences,
are
here we'sursentences ;arebutdeclared
words
other or
withwords,
plusage,
called upon to-give a meaning to words, which deprives them of all meaning, and that without any incongruity with otcr words, or want of distinct
consethatn which
produces
a construction
have received
meaning
i themselves,
but from
an analogy which
with another
case,
similar words
quence, when applied to tlese words.
Until better advised, I niust maintain that"these words have a definite
meaning and bearing in their place in this la1, and amount to a restriction
Florida,
of the
Court of
Superior
of thesalvage
sea. to a class of cases
jurisdiction
thedoes
of
on wreck
not comprise
which
Some minor grounids have been dwelt upon in argument, of which it ia
proper to take a brief notice.
It has been argued that the Superior Court of Florida acqired jurisdictian in another way ; to wit, thattheth section of the Florida Act, of 1822,
makes of force in te territory, all public laws of the United States, not re.
Acts
to the provisions of that Act. That the judiciary Acts are argixpugnant
of that description, and, therefore, arc laws of the territory. But thisDistrict
ment is without point, until such an organization of (~ireuit and

Vozw.

3

e

522

SUPREME COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et a. vs. Canter.)
2YLired.-He claims the whole three hundred and fiftZsix
bales, on the ground of a sale by a Court of the territory of
Florida.
Courts of the United States takes place in that territory, as will admit of the
application of this law to the jurisdiction of its Courts, Or rather, it takes
effect as to the subject now under consideration, only through those clauses
which relate to the jurisdiction of the Kentucky Court, and thus returns, in
h circle, to the argument which we have been before considering.
it has also been contended that the Florida Act, under which the Court
at Key West was organized, is void. 1st. Because never ratified by Congress; and dly, because inconsistent with that provision of the first.sectibn
of the Act of 1824, which gives original jurisdiction to the Superior Courts
of the territory,'in all cases of 100 dollars in value.
To the first 9 f these reasons, the 5th section of the Act of 1822, furnishes an unequivocal answer. It is only the right of realingthat Congress
retains over the laws of Florida. That clause which requires the Governor to
be laidofbefore
the President,
laws of the
report
thedirectory,
thoseCongress,
laws, uinbearing
upon thetovalidity
hutterritory
has no to
is merely
disapproved by Congress, shall
til repealed. The words are '"which if"

tlzencef'btisll be of no force

;"

necessarily inmplying their previous operation.

With regard to the second, I have no doubt but that the individusl who
chousesto resort to his common law remedy, of an action for wvork and labour, instead of libelling for salvage, may maintain an original suit in thc
Superior Court of the territory. But I see nothing in the Act which makes
"exclusive," in a case in which both remedies are open to the
thatjurisdiction"

choice of the party. - The language of the 6th section is, "That tji judicial power shall be vested in two Superior Courts, and in such inferior
justices of the peace as the legislative council of the territory
Courts, a'nd
may from time to time stablish." The 7th section of this Act, and the 2d
of the subsequent Act, confin to the Superior Courts exclusively, the jurisdiction" over the cases arising under the laws, .&c. of the United States,
of which the Kentucky Court had jurisdiction-but as to all others, I per-.
ceive nothing in the law which precluded the Florida legislature, from making any distribution of jurisdiction consistent with preserving to the Superior
Court a concurrent'jurisdiction, to be exercised according to its own terms.
It is proper to remark here, that whatever may be the fact as to the int egrity and prpriety, which regulate the proceedings of the Court at Key
West, "there is nothing novel or unprecedented in the organization of that
Court. The model of it is of great antiquity, and throttghout the civilized
world, some suceh summary mode of adjusting salvage, in cases of wreck of
the sea, is to be found. We had just such a Court here, and I believe in.
most of the states, when the Constitution was adopted ; and although jursdiction of the subject has been every where abandoned to the District
Courts of the United States, where it is generally adjusted with great solemnnity and discretion, and I believe, very much to the satisfaction of all
the commercial world, there exists no reason to, preclude the Congress of
the United States from constituting similar summary tribunals, whenever
and wvherever it may become necessary. Thie establishment of this tribunal, therefore, however justice may be distributed in it, is no unwarrantable
exercise of the legislative or judilal power vested in Florida.
Finally, I am of" opinion that there is error in the decision of the District
Court, and adjudge that it he reversed, and the goods restored to the
claimant with costs.
H N.,Cruger, for libellants.,King and Gadsden, for claimant

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

523

(The Americai Insurance Company et a].
vs. Canter.).
Fourth.-That was a foreign Court, acting under a 2nunidipal law, and having the property within its reach; its jurisdiction cannot be inquired into.
Fifth.-If the jurisdiction of that Courtcan be inquired into,
They contend that jurisdiction was conferred upon it:
Sixth..-With the 8th section of the Act of Congress of the
3d March 18!3, which is in these words: "That each of the
said Superior Courts shall moreover have and exercise the
samejurisdictionwithin its limits, in all cases arising- under the
laws and Constitution of the United States, which by an Act to
establish the Judicial Courts of the United States, approved the
27th September 1789, and an Act in ad,'ition to said Act, approved the 2d of March 1793, was vested in the Court of Keniucky District."
The case was argued by Mr. Ogden for the appellants, and
by Mr. Whipple and"M. Webster for the claimants:
Mr. OgdenThe great question in this case is the validity of the proceedings of the territorial Court; and upon the -threshold of this
inquiry it is asked, how far it is competent for this Court to examine the constitutionality of the Court atKey WVest, and'the
legality of its proceedings.
The libel filed" in the District Court, sought the restoration
of the cotton, -subject to a reasonable salvage. The claimant
asserts his right to it under a sale, and the inquiry is, whether
the property was changed by the proceedings directing the
sale. The decision upon this inquiry, rests upon the right of
"
he Court to take jurisdiction of the subject matter.
The common law rule is, that when a Court acts within its
powers, its acts are binding on all the world; but if beyond
them, they are entirely void, It is therefore necessary to look
into the constitution of the Court. lbbot on Ship. 11 ed. 16
ji.Starkic 215. 9 laws. 462. 3 Whea. 234.
The next inquiry is into the nature of the case, of which the
.Court took? cognizance; and then, whether it was within its jurisdiction
It was a case of salvage, and salvage is of admiraliyjurisdictiom 1 Wheat. 335-Sergeant's Constitutional Law, 206 .- Ia
England there was a great contest upon this question; but it .was
finally settled in favour of the jurisdiction of the admiralty, by
the statute of Rich. 3d. Abbot on &h'ip.433.
It is now to be inquired, could the Court .at Key West, lawfully exercise admiralty jurisdiction?
The Constitution was made for the wh6le people of the United States, without referefice to their being within the original
thirteen states. -Te 3d.,rticle 2d sectiondefines; "the judicial
powers," and declares "-it shall extend to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."

SUPREME VIOUR1.
(The Ameican Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
The treaty with Great Britain of 1783, ceded a large tract ol
country to the United States, a,great portion of which, if not
the whole, was within the limits of the thirteen states, and was
claimed by several of the states, but was afterwards ceded to
the United States.
Thus the United States became possessed of all these territories by cession, all of which, except that ceded by Georgia,
'having been acquired under the confederation, the people upon
those territories became citizens of the United States by those
.cessions, and were entitled to all the rights and privileges of'
citizens.
In the articles of confederation, there is-no provision for acquiring rights to lands; but on the contrary, the lands within
the territories of the several states, were considered as belonging to those states. By what authority did the confederation
acquire a right to the lands ceded to them? Whence then,
did the confederation draw tha capacity to take and hold those
lands? Not from any municipal regulations, or from the laws
of the states; or from the express terms of the articles of confederation; but from the great principles of public law. The
powers of Congress were to make war, and peace, and to make
treaties; and in those and the other powers, were included those
under which territories were acquired and governed.
That Congress considered themselves possessed of those powers is shown by the resolutions of 6th September 1780, and 10th
October 1780, recommending to the states to cede their unappropriated lands-and also by the ordinance for the government
of the territory north-west of the river Ohio, passed 13th July
1787.
That the inhabitants of the territories thus acquired, were
citizens of the United States, is manifest from the fact, that as
soon as they were sufficiently numerous to protedt themselves,
and to form a state government, they became a part of the
Union. The territories to which these observations apply, were
not part of the nation at the time of the establishment of the
Constitution.
'The.Circuit Court in delivering their opinion, draw a distinction between territories so situated, and those which were afterwards acquired. Is there any foundation for this distinction?
The rights of the United States to hold territories,not a part
of the nation at the time of the confederation, in the same manner as the right to all those within the original thirteen states,
is derived from the same uniersal principles of'general law;
from the powers of ma.ing peace, and war, tnd of making
treaties, kc. It is necessary for the -peace of the Union, that
they should possess thosepowers.
In what relation then, do the inhabitants of an acquired ter-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

5!25

(The Amerian Insurance Company et al. vs, Canter.)
rltory, stand to the United States? Are they citizens, or sub.
jects? This is a grave question, and merits the serious consideration of the Court.
The first territory acquired by the United States, was Louisiana; and by the third article of the treaty, as well as by subsequent legislative Acts, the inhabitants of the country became
entiled to the privileges of citizens. The acquiescence of the7
people of the United States, fully establishes, that the powers
exercised in reference to Louisiana, were properly exercised.
The third section, fourth article, of the ConstitutQn, authorizes the admission of new states into the Union.- This section
of the Constitution, gives to Congress a powe, only limited by
their own discretion, to admit as many states as they may think
propel, in what manner soever the territory composing those
new states may have-been acquired.
After the acquisition of Louisiana, Congress considered and
treated the people of the country in the same manner they considered the inhabitants of every other territory of the United
States,-as a part of the nation at the time of the confederation. The various legislative Acts in reference to Louisiana,
establish this position.
The next great acquisition of the United States by cession
from a foreign government, was that of Florida from Spain.
The sixth article of the treaty declares, "The inhabitants of the
territories which his Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States
by this treaty, shall be incorporated into the Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles of
the Federal C6nstitistion, and admitted to-the enjoyment of all
the privileges, rights and immunities of citizens of the United
States."
The provisions of this article, in all respects similar to that
on the Louisiana treaty, stipulating for the Drivileges of the inhabitants of the country, authorize the belief that the government
of the United.States doubted their power under the Constitution to receive a cession upon any other terms, than that the
people inhabiting the country should be citizens of the United
States.
The Act of Congress entitled "an Act for the establishment
of a territorial government in rlorida," followed this treaty, and
was passed 20th March 1802.
The fifth section of this Act constitutes a legislative body for
the territory, and declares-that their legislative powers, shall
exteild to all the rightful subjeots of legislation; but no law shall
be valid, .which is inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of
the United -States, The sixth section establishes the- judicialpower. and appoints a:'sTerior.Court, andgives the territorial

5U6

SUPREME COURT,

(The American Insurance Company et al. w. Canter.)
legislature power to establish iiferiorCourts. The seventk sec.
tion prescribes the jurisdiction of the Superior Court, and declares that the. said Superioi C6urt shall have add exercise the
s ane jurisdictioA within its limits in -all cases 'arising under
the laws and Constitution of the United States, which was vested in the Court of the Kentucky district, by the Judiciary Act
the Arvin addition thereto, of 2d March 1793;
of
and1789;
writs.-ana
of error and appeal from the decision in the said Superior Court, authorized by this sect on qf the .St, shall be made
to the Supreme Court of the United States in the same cases,
and under the same regulations, as from the Circuit Court of
theUnited States. By the eighth section, the Judges of the
Superior Courts and other officers, are to be appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of, the Senate;
and alL the Judges are to take an oath to support the Constituti6n of the United States, before they enter on the duties of their
office; and the salaries of the Governor, Aidges, 8tc. are to be
paid out of the treasury of the United States.
The 9th section declares, that certain Acts 'of Congress
which are enumerated in the section, "and all other public
laws of the United States, which are not repugnant to the provisions of this Act; shall extend to, and have full force and effect, in the tbrritory aforesaid."
,The 14ti section- provides'for the appointment of one delegate to Congress,' for the territory.
-,The Circuit'Court,'in their opinion in 'this case say, "they,
have the most explicit proof, that the un'derstanding of the
,,public functionaries, is, that the government of the Vnited
States does not extend to such territories, by the mere actof
cession.' For in the Act of Congress, of March '1822, section
9th, we'hAve an enumeration of. the Acts of Congress, which
are to bek'held in force in the territory; and, in the 10th section, an enum'eration iii'the nature of a bill of rights f privileges, and which could not be denied to the inhabitants of the
territory,- if they came under the Constitution, by the mere act
of cession."
An ixamintio) of the Act, will show that it does not warrant this construction. The 5th section declares no law shall
be passed,by the territorial legislature, which is inconsistent
.with the "Constitution and laws of the United States.. This
shows -that Congress. did consider the Constitution and laws
as -extending there. Why prohibit-the passage of a law inconsistent-Vwith them, if they had no operation there?
The 7th section- gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction'inall
cases, under the laws and Constitution of the United States.
Those laws must therefore have been considered to extend

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

527

(The American Insurance Company et al. w. Canter.)
there, or why empower their enforcement by the Supreme
Court?
The 8th section provides for the appointment of the officers
of the government, including the Judges of the Supreme
Court, by the President, by and with the advice of the Senate.
This manifests the admission that the Constitution extends
there; as by the Constitution this mode of appointment is established.
The law also provides, that the officers of the territory, appointed according to its purposes, shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States. Why take this
oath, if that Constitution does not extend to ihe territory?
The payment of the officers of the territory, out of the Treasury of the United States, which could not be constitutionally
authorized by Congress, unless the Constitution operated there,
may also be referred to, as evidence of the principles contended for by the appellants.
Because Congress have enumerated certain laws-as extending to the territQry, in the 9th section of the Act it is inferred, that Congress desired none other should extend there,
and that, without such enactment, none would have been i.
nperatioh there;
The language of the section, disaffirms this position. After
enumerating certain Acts, it closes with a prdvision ".That all
the other public laws of the United States, which are not repugnant to the provisions of this Act, shall extend to, and
have full force in the territory." By the enumeration of "1some
laws," it is.therefore evident that Congress did not mean to exclude those not enumerated. But it is said, the 10th section
contains an enumeration in the nature of a bill of rights, of privileges, which. if the Constitution extended there, could not
be denied. This is not admitted. The introduction of this provision, was necessary, for the purpose of controlling the pow,
ers granted by the local legislature, and to secure to the inhabitants rights which they had -under'the Constitution, buf
,which might have been otherwise infringed,. unless provisions
were made to carry the principles of the Constitution into
effect.
It has been shown: 1st. That- the people in the territories of the United States are citizens of the United States, entitled 'to all the benefits derived from the laws and Constitution of the United States, and subject to all the provisions, of
the Constitution, and the laws passed under it.
2. That in principle, there can be-no difference between a
territory -formed out of a country, within the old limits of the
United States, and a territory in newly acquired c6untry.
3. And that, therefore, the people of*Florida, immediately

52S

SUPRE t1 COURT.

(The American Instirance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
,upon its cesion,.or at any rate upon the passing f the Act in.
stituting the territorial government, became citizens of the
United States, to Whom the laws and. Constitution extehded.
I The inquiry now is, whether in -establishing the Court or
tribunal by which.the cotton claimed in this case was ordered
to be sold, the legislature of Florida have not'violated the Con"titutiou of the United'States, and the laws of Congress passed under it. If they have, then the Court is an-illegal Court,
and all its atfs are void.
It is not only upon -general principles, that the act of establishing the Court is invalid, but also by the provision of the
Act of Congress, which: prohibits the passing any laW; incon.
sistent with the' laws and Constitution- of the United States.
'In, the ar'ticle, of the Constitution relitive -to the judicial
is declareda, that it shall extend 'to
pdwer of the government, it,
all cases .of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.- It has been
'shown, that the provision applies to territories as well as states;
the Constitution- being necessaily paramount within the limits
of the United*States.
The Coiisttution h' ving vested the judicial power in a Supreme Court; and such inferior'Couirts as Congress; may from
time to time-establish thelegislative power'nnder this ptovisi6n has been exercised' by
Acth of March 182 and 1823.
SuperiorCdurts have been erected, -towhich, in addition to the
powers ofterritorial Courts, jurisdiedon is Assigned within its
limits in all-cases arising"undef' the-laws and Constitution of
thbe United Sttes, iwhich, by the Judicial Acts of the -United
States, was vested in the Cburt of Kentucky district, with a:
right of appeal, and a writ of error to this Cdurt.
Bythe same Acts,. gtho'rity is given to -the territorial legislature; to 'establish inferior Courts strictly territorial, and the
,jurisdiction of 'whichi extends to subjects not.'within *thecognizance of the tribunals of the Union.
What are the powers,- of the Cburt of the. 'Kentucky district?
Among other subjects of jurisdiction in the District Court of
the United 'States, it is declared, by the ninth-section of the Judiciary Act of 1799, "that 'they shall have exclusive originwl
-conizanqe of all civil causes of admiralty -and maritime jurisdictioni, incidiftg all seizures under the laws of import, naviga.
tiorNna trade of the United St.tes, where the seizures are made
on waters which are navigable from the sea'by vessels of'ten or
more tons b'hrthen.." Thus the Kentucky diatrict had exclusive
cognizance of cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and
conseqtPlnqy,'it has ex.clusive control over' cases of salvage.
The tentl' section prdvides, that the'District Court'bf Kentucky shall, besides the jurisdiction aforesaid, havt jhrisdictioih

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

529

(The American Insurance Company et a]. tw. Canter.)
of all other causes, except of appeals made cognizable in a Circuit Court, &c.
It follows from the provisions of the Act relative to the territorial government, and its reference for the jurisdintion of the.
Superior Court, to that existing in the Court of the Kentucky
district, that in the Superior Court of Florida, there is ewdxisivdy jurisdiction over admiralty and mnaritime causes,'and of
coursei of the claims of the'salvors of the cotton, comprising
part of the cargo of the Point a Petre. The jurisdiction is exclusive, for it could not be given to the territorial Courts by an
Act of the territorial legislature, they not having the 'power to
give it; the laws of the United States, having vested it in thb
Supreme Court, having -similar powers to the District Court
of Kentucky, and the powers of the territorial Court being lintited within the observance of the proVisions of the laws of the
United States.
Independent of the restriction imposed upon the territorial
legislature, by whiich they were disabled from giving admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction to the inferior Courts of Florida, the
Constitution of the United States would have been violated by
such legislation. Th4 Constitution is che supreme law of the
land; and, if without a prohibition in the territorial law, the
legislative authority of Florida could not "coin money" or "issue bills of credit," the establishing of a Court with admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, would be equally repugnant to theConstitution; such jurisdictipn being exclusively, by the donstitution, in Courts established by Congress.
It is said in the opinion of the Circuit Court, that the jurisdiction in cases of salvage, is not vested by Congress-in the
Superior Courts of Florida. A reference to the laws establishing the Court of the district of Kentucky, and to the Act relative to Florida, authorizes a differentposition. Jurisdiction is
given by those laws, "in cases arising under the Constitutioii
and laws of the United States,' What is stch a case? Is not"
the extent of the judicial power -of the Courts of the United
States, a -question arising under th-Constitution? The Constitution hating declared, that the judicial power shall extend
to cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is not a case
of admiralty jurisdiction a question of this character ? A prohibition in a state Court in a caie of admiralty jurisdictiop, and
a plea interposed, that exclusive cognizance of admiralty cases
is in' the Courts of the United States, would at once raise a
question under the.Constitution. The principle seems to be,
that whenever a case arises, in which the -question is as to the
jurisdidtion of the Co irts of the United States, it is necessarily
aid always a question irising under the Co~istitution_ and la.ws
of the United States.
VoL. L 3X

530

SUPREME COURT.

(The.American Insurance Company et al. vo. Canter.)
A case of salvage does not, strictly sp'aking, arise under the
la". and -Constitution of the United Staces, as the right to sal
vage depends on the principles of maritime law; but the amount
•f"salvage, depends on the decision of a Court, guided by the
circumstances of-the case,, and exercising admiralty and mari.
time, jurisdiction. Thus, as the jurisdiction over the case as
given by the Constitution, the decision upon it, becomes a casc
arising under the Constitutioni
Whether a man is bound to pay a pr-omissory note is not a
question of this description, and yet in cases of p~omissory notes
hel~d by the Bank"of the United States, this Court have always
decided that the Courts of the United States have jurisdiction;
,because all actions brought by the bank, are cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. Congress
could give this Court jurisdiction of. such cases, on no other
principle.
If then, under a clause in the Constitution extending the judicial power of the United States to all cases arising under the
Constitution and laws of. the United States, this Court will sustain jurisdiction upol a promissory note, with the ma'-ing of
wthich, and the extent of the liability of the parties thereto, the
Constitution and laws' df the'United States have nothing to do.
--If those liabilities'are questions arising under a different law,
and the jurisdiction is 'sustained by the Court, only in the partkcular ease of the Bank of the United Sta.tes, as a case arising
under the Constitution and laws of the ,United States ; why is
a different rule to 'apply in a case of salvage, "of which the ex
elusive jurisdiction is givjen by the Con~itation and'law of the
United States to th District Court? Is not the one as much
acase arising under the laws of the United States, as the other?
Upon the whole, it is contended, that the Superior.Courts of
Florida, having the same jurisdiction in cases arisi~ig under
the laws and Constitution of the Vnited States, as the XDistrict
Court of Kentucky had, under the Acts of Congress; dud as the
District Court of Kentucky has exchisive jurisdiction in all civil
cases of admiralty anod maritime jurisdliction; that- therefore,
the Superior Courts in Florida have' exclusive jurisdiction in
all civil, admiralty and maritime cases--that salvage is a case
of admiralty and maritime jurisdicion-and that, thereforeany law of. Florida, giving jurisdiction in a case of. salvage to
any other ,gourt is unconstititionkal; and all the acts of th4'
Court under it, are void.
Mr. Whipplel and MIr. Webster fr the claimant.
Mr. Whippl contended.1.- That Canter was a purchaser at Key WVest of the proper.
tyr in question, which was sord by the. c-msent of the own e,',.
•After the disaster-and abandonment, the cap~tain of the Point

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

531

(The American Insurance Coinpany et al. vs. Canter.)
a Petre, acted as agent to the underwriters. When the cotton
arrived at Key West, the salvors and the captain were owners
of it as tenants.in common. The captain had a legzl right to
sell the proportion that belonged to the underwriters, or to eonsent to a division, of it, through the agency of a Court.
He chose, the lattel mode. He himself with the salvors, applied to the justice to issue process; and he co-operated in
all the shbsequent proceedings, and he received his proportion
of the sale of the part of the cargo which was saved. These
acts were subsequently ratified by the agent, who it is in evidence offered the claimant 7500 dollars for his bargain.
Upon these facts it is contended, .that the consent of the par.
ty operates as a change of title to the property. It will not supply a.defect of power in the Court, acting as a Court, but the
Court is the mere organ of the will of thepartyl. As between
the originalparties,a plaintiff may take advantage of the want
of jurisdiction of the Court to which he has resorted. But can
he obtain judgment, proceed to execution, obtain a sale, unaer
which a. third person purchases; and then dispute the title of
that third person, for- an alleged want of jurisdiction in the
Court?
The Court at Key West had jurisdiction, and its decree cannot be questioned.
It may be proper to consider in the first place, whether the
jurisdiction of the Key Vest Court, can be inquired into by
this Court? Was it not the judge of its own'jurisdiction? It
was a municipal Court, acting, in rem, under a municipal law. 2
Dal. 273. 2 Blac. Rep. 977. 4 T. R. 191. 2 I Blac. 410. 4
(ranch, 271. 268. 275-6. 293. 3 Mheat. 236, note. 15 John.
144. 1 Stark.. 215-16. 9 Mass. 46. 9 East,.192.
In Rose vs. Himely, 4 Cranch, 268, it is said, "but of their
own jurisdiction, so far as it -depends on munieipallais,the
Courts of every country are the exclusive judges."
Can the Key West Court be considered a foreign Court? It
derived from Conwas constituted by Congress, or by a power
tress; yet-it may be considered that the United States has tw6
sovereignties, one over the people of the United States, the-other
over the territories; and that they are sforeign to each othert
as the parliament of England, a'nd the legislature-of Jamaica;
and that the Courts of each are as foreign as the Courts of
Westminstei' and Kingston. Perhaps a distinction may be also
taken between the power of this Court, to inqur into the jurisdiction of another Court; in a case in which a=hidperson,not
a party to the original suit, defends his ~right to the pioperty
purchased under that judgment, and a case where a pa:'ty to
the original 'judgment, seeks to enforce that judgment in this
Court, and- thereby to acquire new rights under it. Another

SUPREME COURT.
(The American Insurance Company et a]. w. Canter.)
distinction. may be taken between a defect of jurisdiction, in
consequence of.the*absence of some fact necessary to confer
jurisdiction, and that want of jurisdiction which arises from
the different construction put upon a municipal law by .this
Court, from the construction adopted by the municipal Court.
, Instead of considering the territorial Court' of Florida, a
strictlyforeign Court, suppose the same right to inquire into
its jurisdiction, that exists to. inquire into thejurisdiction of a
state Court, is admitted.
As*a gene,'al principle, it is true, that the proceedbigs of a
Court are void, unless it has jurisdiction over the subject matter., This ho ,vever, like all general rules, has its limits and
its qlualifications.
Whether the sub'ect Oldtter, (the person, or property,) is within thepower of the'Court, is a qdestioix of fact, to be decided,
generally, by the return of an officer. The Court may be supposed to act upon the existence of that fact. Whet it is proved
in another Court, that the Court whose jurisdiction is questioned had been deceived as to that. ssential fact, it does not
impugn its judgment, to 'say that it acted without jurisdiction.
But the construction of the statutes of the states, is peculiar.
ly thetprovince of the Courts of the state'; and a uniform con-.
struction becomes the settled law of the state. The jurisdiction
cann6t be settled in any other aiy; than by the Courts- of the
state. It presents a question of &w, and the decision of that
question, though it relates to jurisdiction, is as binding upon
the parties, as though 'it related to the merits 'of the case. The
question as to the extent of the power of the Court 'under a statute, is a question of law, and the decision conclusive on the par-

ties.
The Courts of Florida alone, are to construe the Acts of.Conress in relation to the jurisdiction of.Florida.. Had the justice, at Key West, jurisdiction of the question of salvage?
'By the territorial Act of 185f3, called the "1Wreckers' Act,"
it is admitted, that sufficient authority was given to the Justice
over this subject. The question arises out-of the Act of Congress of March 1823; and is this, does that Act of Congress
grant sufficiept power to the legislature of Florida to pass such
a]aw?
The Act of Congress of March 1828, authorizes the territorial legislature, " to legislate upon all rightful subjects of legislation."
It makes it the duty of the governor to lay before Congress,
annually, all'the Acts -passed by the legislature. If either of
thiose Acts are dikaprovedof by Congress, it is, from thenceforth,
to be of no effect. The Act concerning wreckers was laid be-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

533

(TheAmericin Insunce Comian yet a].ws.Canter.)
fore-Congress in Decermber 182, and its attention particularly
pointed to that subject, by a memorial- in which the necessity
of such a law was enforced. Congress did not disapprore- or
annul that law, Untill-1826. In the opinion of Congress, then,
this law did not violite the. provisions of the Constitution, or
of any general law of the United States.
. It ought to be noticed, thaf the right conferred on the territorial legislature "to legislate upon all rightful -subjects of
legisfation;" was qualified by the condition, that no law should
be valid " if inconsistent- with the Constitution or laws of the
United States."
Much al'gument has been used in order to show that the
Constitution and'law .ofthe United States areper soe, in force in
Florida, and that the inhabitants are citizens of the United
States.
How the Constitution became of force in Fl6rida has not been
shown. Was it by the Act of cession? Is there any principle in
the law of nations, which upon -the Act of cession or conquest,'
gives to the ceded orconquered country, a right to participate
in the'privileges of the Constitution of the. parent country.?
The uwges of nations frQm the period of Grecian colonization
to the present moment, are precisely the reverse. Such a right
never wa .asserte-d.
The!Constitution was established by the people of the Unitel
Statesfor the United States. It provides for the future admission of territories'into-the Union,"and expressly confers upon
Congress the power of governing them as territories, until they
are admitted as tates.
•If the Constitution is in force in Florida, why is it not re- presented in Congress ? Why 'was it necessary to pass an Act
of Congress extending several of the laws of the United Staies
to Florida? Why did Congress designate particular laws, such
as the crimes Act,' the slave trade and revenue Acts', and introduce them as laws into Florida? Why enumerate particular
rights secured to the beople of tie United' States, if the inhabitants -of.Florida were entitled to them upon the Act of ces-'
sion?
It is clenied,-'that all the. cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction are exclusively vested in the Courts of the Union.
On the contrary it is asserted, that many cases withnthe admiralty are also within the common law jurisdiction of thc sfate
Courts. Seamen's wages, salvage, marine torts,. collision, &c.
are of this description. 2 Doug. 614. Ab. on Ship. 433. 456.
3 Bos. 4- PuL 612. * 8 Bast, 57. 2 Sdw. 2X P. 1287. 1 John.
175. 1 Nott 4-M'Cord, 170. 18Join,-257. . Gall. 899:1 ment's
Commentaie, 851-2.
If, however, salvage is admitted to. be exclusively vested in

534

SUPREME COURT,

(The American Insurance Company etal. w. Canter.)
the C6Iurfs of the United States as a part of their admiralty
jurisdiction, how does that deprive Congress of the power of
distributing that jurisdiction among the Courts of the territogies as it pleases? It is vested in the Courts of the Union; ex'clusive of the Courts of the ates. The state Courts are constituted by state legislatures, over which Congress has no control. They are in a measure adversh jurisdictions. If it is
admitted that Congress has no power to vest any part of admiralty jurisdiction in the state Courts, over which it has no
control, how does it follow that it has no power to vest it in a
territorial Court, over which it has control?
Congress can constitute new Courts within the states, and
confer portions of admiralty jurisdiction upon them. It can
confer that jurisdiction upon the superior or inferior Courts of
the territory, or it can authorize the territorial legislature to
do it. And this, whether the Constitution is or is not in foree
in Florida.
The power of Congress over the territory is the same in the
one case as in the other. -The Constitution authorizes Congress
to provide for the government of the territories. It has all the
power over them, that Congress and the legislature of a state,
have over a state. Its power to appoint Courts of admiralty
jurisdiction, can be as legally alelegated, as its power to appoint
ahy other Courts. All the Courts of Florida,-whether appointed by Congress or 'by the territorial legislature, are dependent
upon Congress, and are Courts of the United States. They are
therefore, upon the admission of the opposite counsel, capable of
receiving grants of a~lmiralty jurisdiction. It is only state
Courts, which are independent of Congress, that cannot be
clothed with such power. If the power of Congress to distri,bute admiralty jurisdiction among the Courts of the territory
as it pleases, is denied, its power to distribute it among the
Courts of the United States as it pleases, must be denied. Of
what conseqpence is it then, whether the Constitution is or is
ndt in force in -Florida, since the Constitution excludes the
state Coirts alone from the exercise of admiralty jurisdiction?
The ground assumed is this, that Congress authorized the
territorial legislature "to legislate upon all rightful subjects of
legislation," unless inconsistent with the Constitution. That
salvage is a rightful, and in-Florida a necessary subject of legislation; that the necessary import of the words of this grant
includes the exercise of the power in question; that the exercise
of that powerby enacting the wrecker's Act, wasnot inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States; and
that consequently it must be supported, unless it can be clearly
shown that it.is inconsistent with some other parts of the Aot
of Cotgress of March 1823.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

535

(The American Insurance Companyet al. vs. Canter.)
This is attempted by resorting to the 8th section, which
confers jurisdiction upon the Superior Courts of Florida.
These Superior Courts were appointed by Congress, and jurisdiction was conferred 'by Congress, and the argument is
that as Congress have conferred exclusive admiralty jurisdiction upon these Codrts of its own appointment, that the power
given to the legislature in the same Act to appoint other inferior Courts, and "to legislate upon all rightful subjects of
legislation," was not intended to include- the power over subjects of admiralty jurisdiction.
As the neesary import of the terms of the grant to the legislatufe does include the power in question, it must be shown
that the necessary import of the grant of jurisdiction to~the
Superior Courts excludes it. Words of a clear import are not
to be controlled by other words in the same statute, unless
their import is equally clear ; for doubtful words shall not limit
the operation of clear and precise ones.
Two propositions must be established, as the necessary 'result of these words of the 8th" section. 1st. That an exclitsive
admiralty jurisdiction is conferred upon the Superior Codrts.
2nd. That that exclusive jurisdiction extends .to all cases.
The words are the "same jurisdiction." And it is argued
that because the jurisdiction of the Kentucky Court was exclusive, that these terms, necessarily, vest an exclusive jurisdiction
in the Superior Courts.
The grant it'-" the samejurisdiction." Must it necessarily be
exclusivein Florida because it was exclusive inKentucky?-Are
the terms, exclusive or concurrent, parts or-qualities of the jutisdiction, so that a grant of the principle carries them along
with it as incidents? Or are they in fact no part of the jurisdiction itself7 but terms used to express the relation which that
C6urt hs to some other Court? Is not the term exclusive intended to prohibit other Courts from exercising, the same jurisdiction? Is a jurisdiction more extensive when exclusive, or
less so when concurrent? Is it not precisely the same in the
one case as in the other? The power of the Court over the
parties, the subject matter and the process, is the same in the
onecase as in the other, -A grant then of the "same jurisdiclion," does not necessarily carry with it the same relation to
other jurisdictiotis. It may be concurrent in Kentucky, and
exclusive in Florida. Suppose. two Courts in Florida hose
jurisdiction extended over the same district. Congress confers
upon these two Courts the ".same jurisdiction," that the Kentucky Court possessed. Itwas exclusive in Kentucky, but asit
was conferred on two Courts, would it not be concurrent in Flo-

rida?
These terms, then, do not necessarily import an exclusive

536

SUPREME COURT,

'(The American Insurance Company.et al. vs. Canter.)
jurisdiction, and ought.not to limi.the grant of power to the
legislature.. The intention of Congress might have beeli one
way or the other. It isprobable they did not intend an exclusive jurisdiction. In Kentucky this admiralty power is exclusive of the state Courts, over which Congress has no contr9L
Why in Florida should it-be exclusive'of the territorial Courts
over which Congress had a control.
The libellants -then fail to ettablish the first proposition, that
the nee ssary import of the terms confers an exclusive jurisdiction on the Superior Courts. The second proposition it is apprehended cannot be established, which is, that jurisdiction
over all cases, to which The jurisdiction'of the Kentdck Court
exten.ded, was intended to be conferred. The-words of the Act
axe" all cases arisingundbr the laws of the United States."
It is at once perceived, that unless it can be established that
the case of salvage tried before the justice and jury was a case
arising under the law of the United States, that Congress have
not conferred jurisdiction over it, 'on the Superior Courts, and
territorial
pthe
legislature had the rightot
consquerntlcy that
conferring it upon an inferioi- Court.
The reasonin adopted to show, that it was a case arising unrisdiction
of the
of the United
States upon
is somewhat novel. The juth laws
bder
e tdepended
the territorial law; the
on
the.of
Act
Congress;l it
was therefore
case law
arising
under
enacta that
depended
eight
theofterritorial
gislation'to
the laws of the United States. And the case of Osborne t,. the
Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, is relied upon'as an
authority.
. The case•of Osborne vs. the Bank, did not involve
the right
of.the bank to sue-in a particular Court, not a mere question of*
jurisdiction, but the right of the bank to sue in any Court; its
right to a legal-existence. The fact of the legal existence of the
bank-depended on a law of the United, States. The decision of
,the question settled the-casebetween thtparties. -No suit-eoIld
be afterwards brought by the bank in another Court. But, if the
justice iiFlorida had decided' agiinst his own jurisdiction, it
would have left the rights of the parties as they -were before.
to ly decidd upon in anothi& Court. It would have effected
the remedy in thtat Court, and that alone.
"Besides; if every case which involves a question of jurisdiction under a law of the United States, is a case ariiing'under
the iws of te~United" States,then every case which by possiCourt is of
that meaning
descripbrought
in involyes
the Kentucky
bilitybecanse
c n be everytion,
case
that question.
What
ynited
the
laws
te
under
then ave the words arising
"the
same
idrisdiction
in all entirely
cases which
thus,
and read
th Kentucky
the ectionCour't
•tate8?"
Why
not omit them

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

57

(The A~Nerican Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
has." If those -wordsdo notlimit the grant to cases where some
right is claimed uflider a law, they'are wholly inoperative.
It will be found, not only that these words are inoperative
upon the construction of the libellants, but that distinct and in-,
dependent provisions in the Act of Congress of 1824, are also
inoperative. Immediately following these" words conferring jurisdiction upon the Superior Courts, it is'providea that "all
cases arising under the laws of the United States" shall be
tried the first six days of the term, and ill other" cases afterwards; that in such cases the Clerk shall have the same fees
that the Clerks of the District Courts have, but in all other
cases, such fees as the'legislatur shall. establish. Now if everj
case brought in a territorial Court, involves a question of the
jurisdiction of the Court, and that alone gives it the character
of " a case under the laws of the United States," according to
the meaning" of Congress, how can the distinction as to the
time of trial, and the amount of fees exist ? Congress has es%tabtished two classes of cases, one under, and the other not unfder, the law of the United States. The libellants say there -is
but one class. All cases brought in the Courts. of Florida are
cases arising under the laws of the United States, because they all involve a question of jurisdiction. This view of the sub3ect appears conclusive.
The whole case results in this, that Congress, being'the sovereign, de facto, or under the Constitution of' Florida, had
a right to provide for its government by a direct or a delegated exercise of power, or by both. Thtt it had the right of disv
tribdting all branches of judidial power among the severAl
Courts of Florida as it pleased, and how it pleased, and this to
the same extent if the onstitution is, or'if it is not, per se, in
force in Florida.
That the grant of power to the territorial legislature clearly
embraces the exercise of it in question, and that.so far from a,
clear grant of exclusive jurisdiction in all admiralty cases,.being
conferred upon the Superior Courts,which could alone ln~it
the grant of power to the legislature, that it is very- doubtful
itwas
only
relation jurisdiction
o.cases in which
some right
whether
anyinexclusive
or ifpower
was intended,
and
it was,
is
claimed
under a.law of the United States. It is agreed that saltion of jurisdiction
makes it so.unless the possibility of a c lesvage is not of hat description,
Webster-Mrt
This will be a hard case againstthe claimant of the property,
it, having
purchased
i't in good faith under
the should
decree he'o~e
of a Court
exercising
jurisdiction
over the matter,
und to which jurisdiction, no objectionwas made, by theparties
o the proceeding.
VOL; 1.

SY

536

SUPREME COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et al.,vs. Canter.)
How did the District Court of South Carolina obtain ju
risdiction in this case? No wrong was done-no tort was cornmiited. That Court had not therefore jurisdiction of the subject. .Salvage is too indefinite a term, to designate jurisdiction.
Marine salvage, when the service has been rendered it sea,,
may form a proceeding ii the admiralty, but in this case, the
services were after the vessel was a wreck ; and therefore the
zame principls do not apply.
This proceeding is in the nature of an action-of trespass; the
process was against the res, and the person of the claimant;
and because there had been a question of qa1vage in the Court
under whose decree the res is held by the claimant, it does
not follow, that there is jurisdiction in the Courts of the United States. It is said the propertyhas not passed by any valid
decree, and trespass or trover would lie.
Has there been such a judicial sale, as conveyed the property to the claimant ?-If not, the insurance companies claim to
hold the property. What is Florida? It is no part of the United States. How can it be ?-how is it represented ? do the laws
of the United States reach Florida? Not unless by particular
provisions.
The territory and all within it, are to be governed by the acquiring power, except where there are reservations by treaty.
By the law of England, when possession is taken of territories, the king, Jure Coronae, has the power of legislation until
parliament shall interfere. Congress have the Jus Corosus in
this case, and Florida was to be governed by Congress as she
thought proper.
What has Congress done? she might have done any thingshe might have refused the trial by jury, and refused a legislature. She has given a legislature, to be exercised at her will;
and 4 governmefit of a mixed nature, in which she has endea-

voured to 'distinguish between state and United States juris-

dictidn, anticipating the future erection of the territory into
a state.
Does the law establishing the Court at Key W -,t,come with-

in the restrictions of the Constitution of the United States? If

the Constitution does not extend over this territory, the law
cannot be inconsistent with the national Constitution.
It is said that the Court erected for the territory by the law
of the United States, has exclusive.jurisdiction over this case,
and that the interference of the.4ocal legislature is unauthorized. Does the law erecting the Superior Court of Florida, give
this exclusive jurisdiction ?
The jurisdiction given to the Florida Court is the same a.%
that given -to the Circuit Court of Kentucky; and as the Dis-

frict Court of Kentucky has jurisdiction of all cases arising un-

JANUARY TERM, 1828
(The.American Insumnce Company et a;

539
w. Canter.)

iler the laws of the United States, it-is-inferred, that.the'same
is vested in the Florida Court. But it does not follow-from the
language of the Act, that. the jurisdiction is exclusive; and thus
the power of the Court erected by the legislature of Florida,
may'be and was concurrent. The main point in this case is,
whether it is a case arising under the Constitution of the United States? What are the cases which are referred to in the provision, and is this one?
The. principles of those cases have been examined, and
enough has been settled, to show that this is one which doeg
not so arise. A case is not one arising under a law,of the United States,. because, in some part of it, a question may arise
under a law of-the United States. The meaning of the provision of the Constitution cannot be, thai when a law of the United States can have any influence in a case, it is to be considered, as one arising under the law of the United States.
How does the cause before the" Court arise under a law of
.the United States?. It is a claim for salvage.. The goods are
brought-into Key West, and, there is mo law of the United
States limiting or fixing'the amuount of' salvage. Salvage is not
a:right arising- under a law of the United States-it is a common law right; and the action for its recovery, or the-rate to
be allowed; does not depend upon any law of the United States.
'It cannot be claimed, that any laws operated in the-case, unless
the general laws which extended over the territory. The case
of Osborn" vs. th- Bank of the United States, decided in this
Court, does not apply to this case. The law giving-to the bank
their charter; g've to that institution a power to sue in the Courts
of the United States. Bat, as has been stated, the salvors of the
cotton, did not claim salvage under any laW of the Union. The
salvage ;night have been su~ed for, Vherever the goods could be
found and libelled, in England or in France, or elsewhere.
The argument, thatthi's Court should layits hands on the proceedings of the Courts of Key West,, because of the great injufles sustained .by merchants and underwriters, if it could, at
'any time, have 'force here, cannot have it now' as the law establishing the Court which -is so much comDlained of has been
repealed."
'Mr. Ogden in reply,
The place yrhere the service is done, -ascertains thejurisdiction.. 'IV'ls upon this principle, that questions of seamen's"
wages are sulijects of admiralty. jurisdiction, and entertained
in Admiralty C'ourts; and-upon this principle, the case before
'the Court, *is of admiralty cognizance, . The whole of the services ofthe salvors were at !iea; the place where the Point a
Petre was wrecked, was at a distance from 'the main land, and
there the goods 'wre saved.

S540

SUPREME- COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et a]. w. Canter.)
It is admitted, tlat for the cotton, which is the subject of
this suit,-an action of trover will lie; but this is a concurrent
remedy with that afforddd in a Court of Admiralty.
Territories acquired by conquest, and by cession, stand un•der.differentrelations to the United States. Where territories
arq ceded, they become part of the United States. It has been
the uniform understanding, that this shall he the case. Those
territories obtained by treaties with France and Spain, were o
considerea, and the provisions in those treaties relative to the
rights and privileges of the inhabitants, were introduced under the belief that Congress would not interfere.
The Act relative to the terrritory of Florida provides, that
no law shall be passed against the provisions of the Constitutidn of the United States. The officers appointed - under it,
take an oath to support the Constitution, and thus the full force.
and operation of the Constitution is acknowledged in the terTrtory.
3
y the Constitution, the Courts of the United States have
.jurisdiction in all 6ases of admiralty and maritime jurisdic.
tion; and-it therefoie -follows, that this is exclusive.' What
Courts have Congress ordained and established in the territory of Florida, to exercise the jurisdiction atsigned by the Constitution to the Courts of the United States ? The law establishes a, Superior Court with" gejeral. jurisdiction, similar to
the Courts established in the states; it theli provides that inferior Courts may be. erected by the territorial 'legislature,
"whosejurisdiction shall not exceed one hundred dollars; and it
is afterwards said. in the law, that the Superior Court shall, in
addition to. the defined powers, exercise all such powers as are
granted to'the United States Court of Kentucky. The'Court
established in Kentucky has given to it' admiralty.and maritime jurisdiction, and .therefore the Superior Court of Florida
has the same ju'risdiction. If, then, it is given by Congrcss" to
the Superior Court, it exists nowhere else.'
It i§ said that Congress has given to the terlitorial legislature allthe rights of legislation they have. Legislative powers
cannot be delegated. *Ddegatasnon potest ddegare.
Whether the territorial Court had jurisdiction, is a question
arising under the Constitution of the United States. How else
does it arise ? Suppose. a jurisdiction in admiralty cases, assumed by New-York during a war. .How can the powers thus
.assumed be examined before the Courts of the United States,
bu by. iffirming the Acts to be void, by the Constitution and
laws of the United States ?
This is a question of salvage; -and had the.tetritorial Court
jurisdiction of salvage? If the cotton wias not sold under the
derree of a Court c.ompetent to decfde such a question, the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.-

541

(TheAmerican Insuranie Company et al. vs. Canter)
property is not changed. Does the territorial Act give the jurisdiction ? .The powers-of Courts formed under the territorial law, being limited to controversies -not exceeding one hundred dollar.s,* the limitation has been-exceeded; and the provisions forthe establishment of.the Court are therefore void.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHkALL delivered- the opinion of theCourt.*The plaintiffs filed their libel in this cause in the District
Court of South Carolina, to obtainrestitution of 856 bales of
cotton, -part'of the cargo- of the ship Point a Petre; which had
been insured, by them on a voyage from Ndw-Orleans to Havre
de Grace, in France. The Point a Petre was wrecked on the
coast 9f Florida, the cargo saved .bythe inhabitants, and car-"
ried .into Key West, where it was sold fop the purpose of satisfying the Aalvors ; by virtue of a decree of a Court consisting
of a notary and fivejurors, which was erected by an Act of the
territorial legislature of Florida; The owners abandoned to th
underwriters,- who-having accepted the. sane, procedde l
against the property; alleging that the sale was not made by
order of a Court cbmpetent to change the property.
David Canter claimed the cotton as a bonts-fide purchaser,
under the decreeof a coi.petent Cdurt, which awarded seventysix perceut.-to the salvors, on the' value qf the piroperty saved.
The District Judge pronounced the deeree-f the territorial
Court a nulhty, and awarded restitution to--the lioellants'of
such part of the cargo as he supposed to be identified by the
evidencef; deducting therefrom ; salvage of. fifty per cent.
The libellants - and claimant both appealed. The Circuit
Court reversed -the decree of the District Court, and decreed
the whole cotton to the claimant, with cossts; on the ground
that the proceedings of the Court at Key West were -legal,
and transferred the property to the purchaser. .
From this decree the libellants have appealed to this Court.
The c, ase depends, mainly, on th6 question whether the 'property in the cargo saved, was changed'by th sale'.at Key West.
The conformity of thai sale to. the order under whidh it was
made,- has not been controverted. Its validity has been denied, on the ground that it was ordered by an incompetent tribunal.
The tribunal was'constitdted by- an Act of the territorial legislature of' Florida, passed'on the 4th July 18 ,,'which is in.
seited in the record. That, -Act purports to give the power
which
clrs-been exercised,; conseuently the sale is valid, if
the territorial legislature was competent tb enact the law.
The ourse which the argument has takefi, will require, that,

542

SUPREME COURT.
(The American Insurance Company et a1. wi.
Canter.)

in deciding this question, the Court should take into view the
relation in which Florida stands to the United States.
The Constitution confers absolutely on the government of
the Union, the powers of inaking war, and of making treaties;
consequently, that government possesses the power of acquiring.territory,. either by conquest, or by treaty.
The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely sub.dued, to consider the holding of conquered territory as a mere
military occupation, until its fate shall be determined at the
treaty of peace, If it be ceded by the treaty, the acquisition
is' confirmed, and" the-ceded territory becomes a part of the nktion to which, it is annexed; either on the terms stipulated in
the treaty of cession, or on suclh as its new master shall im-pose. On such transfer of territory, it has never been held,
that the relations of-the inhabitants with each other undergo
any change. Their relations with their former sovereign are
dissolved, and new relationg 'are created between them, and the
goyernment which has. acquired their territory. The same
Act which transfers their, country, transfers the allegiance of
those who remain in it; and the law, which may be'denominated
political, is necessarily changed, although that which-iegulates
the intercourse, and'general conduct of indiyiduals,- remains in
force, until altered by'the newly createdpbwer of the state.
On the 2d of February 1819, Spain ceded Florida to the United States. The 6th article (f the treaty of cession, contains the
following provision-1" The inhabitants of the territories, which
his Catholic majesty cedes to the United -States by this treaty,
shall be incorporated in-the.Union of the United States, as soon
as may be consistent with the principles of the federal Constitition; and admitted to the enjoyment'of the privileges, rights,
and immunities of the citizens of the United States."
This treaty is the law of the land, and admits the inhabitants of Florida to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and
immunities, of the citizens of the United States. It is unnecessary to -inquire, Whether' this is not their -condition, independent of stipulation. They do not, however, participate in
political power; they do not ghare in the government, till Flo*ridashall become a state. In the mean time, Florida continues
to be a ierritory of the United States; governed by virtue of
that clause in the Constitution, which empowers Congress " to
make all'needful rules and regulations, respecting the territory,
or other property belonging to the, United States."
Perhaps ihe- power of governing a territory belonging to
the Uiited States,. which has not, by becoming a state, acquired
the means of. seIf-governmeht, may result necessarily from the
facts, that it is not within the jurisdiction of any particular.
state,'and is within the power and jurisdiction of the United

JANUARY TERM 1828.

545

(The American Insurance Company et a], ". Canter.)
States. The right to govern, may be the inevitable consequence
of the right to acquire territory. Whichever may be the source,
whence the power is derived, the possession of 'it is 'Unquestioned. In execution of it, Congress, in 1822, passed ."-an Act
for the establishment-of a territorial government in Florida;"
and, on the 3d of March 1823, passed another Act to amend
the Act of 182. Under this Act, the territorial legislature
enacted the law now under consideration.
The 5th section of the'Act of 1823, creats a territorial leglslature which shall have legislative powers over all rightu objects of legislation, but no law shall be valid, which
is inconsistent with the laws and Constitution -of the United
States.
The 7th section,-enacts " That Ithe judicial power shall be
vest6d.in two Superidr Courts, and in such inferior Courts, and
justices of. tne peace, as the legislative council of the territory
may from time to time establish. ' After prescribing the place
of cesgion, and the jurisdictional limits, of each Court, the Act
proceeds to say; "within its limits herein described,-each
Court shall ,have jurisdiction in all criminal cases, and exclusive jurisdiction in all capkal offences; and original jurisdiction in all-rivil cases of the value of one hundr.'d
edollars, arising under and cognizable by the. laws of the-territory now in
force therein, or-which may, at any time, be enacted -bh ihe legislative council thereof."
The 8th section enacts "That each of the .said: Superior
Courts shall moreover have and exercise the same jurisdiction
within its limits, in all cases arising under the laws and Constitution of the United States, which, by dn Act to establish the
judicial Courts of the United-States, approved the 24th of September 179, and an Act in addition to the -Act, .eititled.gn,
Act to establish the judicial Courts of the Unitqd States; , p.proved the 2d of March 1793, was. vested in the Court of kentucky district."
The powers of the territorial legislature extend .o -Al right;
"ful"objects of.legislation, subject -to the rstriction, that their
laws shall not be "inconsistent with the Idws and Constitution of the'United Stated.:". As sialvage -is:admitted to come
within this description, -the 'Act is valid, 'nless 'it can b.
brought within the restriction.
The counsel for the libellants contend, that it is inconsisfnt
with both the laW And -the.Constitutidn; that it is inconsistent
vith the provisioni of the law,.by which the territorial governmenut was reated, arid with the amendaioy Act .of March
1823. ii vests, they say, in-an inferior-tribunal, ajurisdiction, Which is, by those Acts. vested exclusivelv .if. the- Superiqr,
eourts of the territory.

544

SUPREMP COURT.

(The American Insurance Company et al. v8. Canter;)
This argument requires an Attentive consideration of the
sections -which define the jurisdiction of the Superior Courts.
The 7th section of the Act of 1823, vests the whole judicial
power of the territory "in two Superior Courts, and in such
inferior Courts, and justices of the peace, as the legislative
council of the territory may from time to time establish." This
general grant is common to the superior and inferior Courts,
and their jurisdiction is concurrent, except so far as it may be
made exclusive in either, by other provisions of the statute.
The jurisdiction of the Superior Courts, is declared to be exclusive over capital offences; on every other question over
which those'Courts may take cognizance by virtue of this section, concurrent jurisdiction may be given to the inferior
Courts. Among these subjects, are "all civil cases arising
under and- cognizable by the laws of the territory, now Hn
force therein, or which may it-any time be enacted by the legislative council thereof."
It has been already stated, that all. the laws which were in
-force in Florida: while a province of' Spain, those excepted
which were political in their character, which concerned the
relatibns between the people and- their sovereign, remained in
force, unjil 'altered by the government of the United States.
Congress recogmses this rinciple, by -using the words "'laws
of the territory now in force therein." No laws could then
have been in force, but those enacted by the Spanish government. If among these, a, law existed on the subject of salvage,
and it is scarcely possible there should not have been such a
law, jurisdiction over cases arising under it, was conferred on
the Superior Courts, but that jurisdiction was not exclusive.
A territorial Act, conferring jurisdiction over the same cases
on an inferior Court, would, not have been inconsistent with
this-section.
The -8th section extends the jurisdiction of the Superior
Courts, in terms which adr t of more doubt. The words are
"That eaCh-of the said-Superior Courts, shall moreover.have.
di -exercise the same jurisdiction, -within its limits,- in all
.cases arising under the laws and Cdnstitution of the United
States, which, by an AUt to establish the judicial Courts of the
United States, was vested in the Court of the Kentucky district."
The 11th section of the Act declares "1That the la w of the
United States,-relating to the revenue and its collection, and.
ill other public Acts of -the.United States, not inconsistent or
repugnaint to thia Act, shall extend to, aud have full force and
effect,-in the territory aforesaid."
The laws which are fxtended to the territory by this section, were eithef, for the punishment of crime, or for civil

JANUARY TERM, 18.8.

545

(The American Insurance Company et al. vs. Canter.)
purposes. Jurisdiction is given in all criminal cases, by the
7th section, bat in civil cases, that section gives jurisdiction
only in those which arise under and are cognizable'by the laws
of the territory; consequently, all civil cases.arising under the
laws which are extended to the territory by the 11th section,
are cognizable in the territorial Courts, by virtue of'the 8th
section; and, in those cases, the Superior Courts may exercise
the same jurisdiction, as is exercised by the Court for the
Kentucky district.
The question suggested by thih view of the subject, on which
the case under consideration must depend, is this:Is the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts ,of the
United States vested in the Superior Courts of Florida under
the words of the 8th section, declaring that eac4 of the said
'Courts "1shall moreover have and exercise the' same jurisdiction within its limits, in all cases arising under the laws and
Constitution of the United States," which, was vested ia the
Courts of the Kentucky. district?
It is observable, that this clause does not confer on the territorial Courts all the jurisdiction which is vested, in the Court
of the Kentucky district, but that part of it only which applies
to "cases arising under the laws and Constitution of the United States." Is a case of admit-alty of this description?
The Constitution and laws of the United States, give jurisdiction to the District Courts over all cases in admiralty;
but jurisdiction over the case, does not constitute the case itself.
We are therefore to inquire, whether cases in admiralty, and
cases arising under the laws and Constitution of'the United
States, are ideqtical.
If we have recourse to that pure fountaiV from which all the
jurisdiction of the Federal Cotirts is derived, we find language
employed which cannot well be misunderstood. The Constitution declares, that "the judicial power shall extend to all
cases in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the
laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall
be made, under their authority; tcy all cases affecting, ambassadors, or other public ministers, and consuls; to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
The Constitution certainly contemplate's these as three distinct classes of case's; and if they are distinct, the grant'ofjurisdjction over one of them; does not confer jurisdiction over
either of the other two. The discrimination made between
them, in the Constitution, isi we think, conclusive against their
identity. If it were not so, if this were a point open to inquiry, it would be difficult to maintain the proposition that they
are the same. A case in admiralty does not,. in fact, arise under the Constitution or laws of the.United States. These cases
VoL. L
3Z

546

SUPREME COURT:

(The American Insurance Company et a]. vs. Cnter.)
are as. old as navigation itself; and the law, admiralty and ma,
-ritime, as it has existed for ages, is-applied by ou: Courts tothe-cases as t1bey arise. .It is not then to the-8th section Of"the
territorial law, that we are to look for the grant of admiralty
and mariti'me jurisdfiction, *to the .territorial Courts., Conse"
quently, if that jurisdiction 'is exclusive, it is not made so by
.the reference to the District Cpurt of Kentucky.
* It has been. contended, that by the Constitution the judicial
power o: the 'United States extends to all- cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction; and that the wtiole of this judicial
powe: must be vested - "4in.oneSpreme Court, And in such'
inferior Courts as Congressshall fromtime to time'ordain and.
establish." Lence it has been argued, that Congress cannot
,vest adtniralty'-jurisdiktin in Courts created by. the teritorial
legislature.. We have only to pursuethis subjecf one step furtber, to perceive that this -provision of the Constitution does not apply to
it. The, next sentence declares, that "the" Judges b6-th of the
Supreme -and inferior Courts, 'shall hold their"offices during
goad behaviour.' The Judges -of the -Superior Courts of Flo;
ridia hold their offices f&P four :years. 'hese Courts, then, are
notconstationalCourts, in -which.the judicial power conferred
by the Consti.utiou on-the general goyernment, can be deposited. 1hey ire incapable of freeiving.'it; They are legislative
Courts, created in virtue-of the general right'of soverefgnty
which exists in 'the government, or in virtue of,that clause
whichl-enables Congress to-mike, all needfuLrule- and regulations,- respecfing the territory belonging. to the United States.
a part
'rh, jiirisdiction With which they a-re invested, is fot
of that judicial power which is--defined in the 8d article of the
Constitution, but is conferred ihy Conigresi,in the execution

of

-those,

genel powers- which, that body possesses over the

territories~of the~ United States. Atthough adxiralty.jurisdiction can bd'exercise'd in th states in thipe Conrts, .only, which
are established in pursuance of the 3d articXe of the Cdnstitution
the satue limitation dojs not extend to-,the -territories. - In 1'e',
gislating fir them,.Congre~s exerc ss-the combined powers of
'the general, and of a fate goyernments

*We think,. hen, that The Act of the terrtorial legislature;
-

erecting the Court hy whose decree the -cargo~cff the P~oinft a'"
'Petre was sold, rs not "inconsistent wvith 't~e laws and. Consti~
:tution of.'the United Sta~es,'-andis'valid. Con'seqdently,: the
sale -made in pursuance of it cbaange!,tbe'projperty, und'the de'
-enee'.of

the Circuit Court, awarding restitution-of 'tlhe property

to the claimant; ought to be a IIinmd wilth ,costs,.

