SUPREME COURT.

-RICIfARD BIDDLE, ADINISTRAToR &C.

OF JOHN WILKINS V8.

JAMES C. WILKINS.
The plaintiff, as administrator of W., bad brought a suit in the District
Court of the United States, for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and
recovered a judgment; and upon this judgment, he instituted a suit in
the District Court of the United States, of the state of Mississippi, against
the defendant in the original suit. The defendant pleaded, that, by the
Orphans' Court of Adams county, in the state of Mississippi, where the
defendant resided, he had been appointed the administrator of W., and
had continued to act in that capacity. Held, that the debt due upon the
judgment obtained in Pennsylvania, by the plaintiff; as administrator of
W., was due to him in his personal capacity, and it was immaterial whetlier the defendant was or was not administrator of W., in the state ot
Mississippi. That would not, in any manner, affect the rights of the
plaintiff; and the plea tenders an immaterial issue, and is bad on demurrer. {6911
Where the Court in which judgment is iendered, has not jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the suit, or where the judgment upon which suit is
brought, is absolutely void, this may be pleaded in bar; or may, in some
tases, begiven in evidence, under the general issue, in an action brought
upon the judgment. {691}
The general rule is, that there can be no averment in pleading against the
validity of a record, though there may be against its operation; and it
is upon this ground, that no matter of defence can be pleaded in such
case, to a suit on a judgment which existed anterior to the judgment.
1692}
It has become a settled practice in declaring in an action upon a judgment,
not, as formerly, to set out in the declaration the whole of the proceedings in the original suit, but only to allege generally, that the plaintiff, b,
the consideration and judgment of that Court, recovered the sum mentioned therein, the original cause of action having*passed in rem judca
tam. 16921
In an action upon a judgment recoxerpd in favour of an admiffistrator, the
plaintiff is not bound to make a profert of the letters of administration.
That it is not necessary in actions upon such judgments, that the plaintiff name himself as administrator, follows, from his not, being bound to
make profert of the letters of administration; and when he does so name
himself, it may be rejected as surplusage. {692}
After'judgment recovered in a suit by an administrator, the debt is due to
the plaintiff in his personal capacity, and he may declare that the debt is
due to himself. {6931
ERROR to the District Court of the United States, for the
Mississippi district.
This was an action of debt brought in the Court below, upon
a judgment obtained by theplaintiff as administrator against
the defendant, in the District Court of the United States for

JANUARY TERM, 18-.

687

(Biddle vs. Wilkins.)
the western district of Pennsylvania. The declaration'was in
the common form, averring the recovery by plaintiff as administrator, &c.
The defendant pleaded three pleas in bar. 1. Ne unques administrator. 2. That in January 1817, in the Orphans' Court
of the county of Adams, in the state of Mississippi, the defendant was duly appointed sole administrator, and hag continubd
toact in that capacity. 3. That the judgment was obtained per
fraudem. The plaintiff replied to the third plea, on which issue
was joined; and demurred specially to the. first and second, assigning as causes of demurrer, 1. The said pleas set up matter which, if true, existed anterior to the judgment on which
the suit was brought; and might have been urged, if effectual at
all, against the original recovery. 2. The said matters should
have been pleaded in abatement, and not in bar. 3. They contain averments against the record. 4. That the matters thereiii contained are immaterial, and could not be setup after
judgment, to avoid its effect, in the state from which the record
came. 5. They are in other respects uncertain, informal, and insufficient.
Joinder in demurrer. The judgment of the District Court
was in favour of the defendant, sustaining both pleas as sufficient.
Mr. Coxefor the plaintiff in error, contended.
1. The first plea is clearly defective. The plaintiff in his representative character, had sued in the state of Pennsylvania,
and recovered a judgment. In this subsequent action brought
upon that judgment, the demand is a personal one. He need
not name himself administrator, but may sue and recover in his
own name. L. Ray. 1215. Doug. 4. - T. R. 126. 2 Phil. on Bv.
590. He need not make profert of the letters of administration,
and in this case no such profert is in fact made. Even in action
for an escape out of execution, on a judgment obtained as administrator, he need not style himself administrator, nor make
profert. Hobart, 38.
In shch'cases, if he do sue in the second action in his representative character, and 'so designate himself, it will be held
mere surplusage, and can in no degree vary the relative rights
of the pariies. I Ve. 119. 16 Mass. 71. lb. 533. It would be
a bad plea, that plaintiff had not been appointed administrator
in the state where the second action is brought, 16 Mass. 533,
for in such case, his right to sue is derived from the judgment
iwhich he has obtained and is wholly independent of the letter
.of administration. 9 Cr~tne1 151.
The judgment obtained in the District Court of Pennsylvania, is conclusive evidence of the representative character of

"688

SUPREME COURT.

(Biddle vs. Wilkins.)
the plaintiff, as well as of the amount of the debt. At common
law, in an action of. debt on the judgment, or in scirefacias,the
defendant can plead nothing which existed anterior to the original judgment, or might have been pleaded in bar to the ori-,
ginal recovery. 1 Chit. on P1. 350. 8 Johns. 77. 2 L. Ray. 85S.
Cro. Eliz. 283. 6 Con. Dig. 806-7. TY. Plead. 2 D. 1. A judgtaent obtained in one of the Courts of the Unaion, has the same
validity in other Federal Courts, as a judgment in a state Court
has at common law, within the same jurisdiction, or as it possesses under the Constitution and laws of-the United States, in
a sister state. Montford vs. Hunt, Wash. C. C. Rep. 28. Bryant vs. Hunter et al. Ab. 48.
The true test by which the validity-of the plea is to be settled, is to ascertain whether it would have been held good in
an action brought on the judgment, in the same Court where
the judgment was had. The cases already cited, are decisive of
that question.
2. The second plea is open to the same objections which exist against the first, and is otherwise informal and defective. It
is argumentative; the mere fact that he was appointed administrator of James C. Wilkins by the Orphans' Court in
Adams countyl furnishes no exemption from suit. It leaves the
-wholesubstance of the defence set up, to be made out by infer-ence and argument, to wit; that plaintiff was not such administratori which however,.is only thus inferentially denied.
This, if substantially a defence, should have been pleaded to
the original action; and therefore cannot avail the party in the
present stage of the proceedings. Even if treated now as a plea
to the original demand, it is essentially defective, inasmuch as
it does not aver that the defendant had obtained letters of administration, prior to the institution of the suit in Pennsylvania.
It would be a monstrous doctrine to introduce, that a party aftera suit-has been instituted agaifnst him, in one jurisdiction,
may defeat all the beneficial results.of a judgment, by obtain•ing letters of administration in another. state.,
S. The first ple'a; which in terms traverses the fact that plainiiff is administratornnd the second,which argumentatively rests
upon the sanwe ground, are'both bad as pleas in bar. In the case
of CJildress vs. Emory et al. 8 Wheat. 642, this Cohrt recognised the 'doctrine that -the objection that plaintiffs were not
executors, maust be taken advantage of by plea in abatement.
Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Jones for defendant.It will be admitted, that the first pleals defective, and no effort will be made to sustain the judgment of the District Court
in reference toF that,
The ec6nd plea is howbver considered as furnishing a valid

JANUARY TERM, 182a.

o89

(Biddle a. 'lWfflki.)
defence, and its character and effects have been wholly misap.
prehended by the adverse counsel. The demurrer admits that
defendant was-the sole administrator of Wilkins, from 1817, till
the institution of-this suit. Under the testamentary system of
Mississippi, where he resided, a debt due to the deceased is assets in the hands of the administrator, and is included in the inventory, as so much money. The plaintiff supd-as administrator, and defendant was at the time administrator within the jurisdiction in which the action was instituted. Every cause of
action existing there, was necessarily embraced in the powers
of the party, who was alone recognised there as the personal representative of the deceased. He. was bound there to account
fr it-and todistribute it. He was prohibited bylaw from sending the assets out of the state. He could not legally pay any
debt without the sanction of the Court., That which he is prohibited from doing directly, he will not.be compelled to do indirectly. If sued by creditors, and distfibutees, upon his official bond, he must be responsible to them for the whole amount
of the inventory; and he cannot be discuhrged by showing payment to plaintiE
There is no such thingas an auxiliary administration. 9 Mass.
355. Each administratoris independent of the author; each derives his power from a competent authority, and each is independent of the other within his own sphere. The residence of
the deceased.may determine the rule of distribution, and the
relative rights of those entitled to the estate; but the concessian that final, distribution is to be made according to the law
of Pennsylvaiiia, though the record is wholly silent as to the
place of his residence, leaves the question before the Court entirely open.
But the Courts in Pennsylvania have no jurisdiction over the
defendant. lie derives his power from the Mississippi Court.
To it, and to it alone is he responsible. He cannot be cited to
account, or to pay over to creditors, or distributees there-all
this is to be done in Mississippi.
This debt, therefore, which the defendant is answerable for
in his own state, and in the manner prescribed by the local
law, cann6t be assets in the hand of the Pejnsylvania administrator.
The objection of the plaintiff that these matters existed anterior.to the first judgment, and should have been pleaded in bar to
the first action, is inapplicable. It is admitted that the record
is conclusive, upon all the matters which the judgment professes to decide. But if the Pennsylvania Court had no cognizance of the subject matter, if it belonged exclusively to another tribunal-if the alleged debt or claim. was exclusively
VOL. 1.
4S

SUPREME COURT.
(Biddle w. Wilkins.)

'within the jurisdiction of the Orphans' Court of Mississippi, or
if defendant acted in such a capacity, that no Court of common
law jurisdiction could decide between the parties upon the subject matter of controversy, then the question presented is one
of jurisdiction, and it is well settled that a Court, when called
upon to enforce the judgment of another tribunal, may examine into and decide upon the question of jurisdiction. 4
Crazch, 269.
-The District Court of Pennsylvania has admiralty jurisdiction; if this suit was brought on an admiralty decree, or on a
stipulation, or .ona bond to t'p marshal, and it shoauld appear
on the record, that the admiralty had no jurisdiction over the
,riginal cause of action, set forth in the libel, the objection
might be urged any where, and at any time. The whole'proceedings would be a nullity. 8 Crancli 351.
So if the objection on this ground a2ppeared incidentally, the
effect would be the saiae. In this ease then, the plea discloses
a.case beyond the proper-jurisdiction of the Court in Pennsylvania, and this we are permitted to do with effect.
It is said these matters should have been pleaded in abatement, and not in bar. Pleas in abatement are such as go to
the place where suit -is brought, to any personal privilege of
defendant, or to the. formi or speoies of action. If the party
fails to plead in abatement, it is a submission to-the process, and
admits the jurisdiction, so far as that he is rightfully before the
Court. But if the plaintiff cannot sue any where, if his cause of
action is not cognizable in the Court where he sues, even express consent cannot give jurisdiction. The objection isfatal,
and wherever it is shown to exist.
Mr. Justice THorpsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.This case comes up from' the District Court of the Unitel
States, for the Mississippi district, upon a -writof' error.
The action, in the Court below, was founded upon a judgment obtained in. the District Court of the United States for
the western district of Pennsylvania, in.the term, of October;
in the. year .183,for thie sum of 39,957 dollars and 34 cents.
The declaration is-in the usual form of an.action'6f debt on a
judgment.
The defendant pleads in bar--1. That the plaintiff is not, and
never was, administrator of John Wilkins, 4eceased.- 2. That
at.the January Term, in the year 1817, of the Orphans' Court
for the county of Adams, and state, (then territory,) 6f Nlississipp , he, the defendant, was duly appointed sole administrator
of 'John 'Wilkins, deceased, and entered into bond with security,
4nd took the uath prescribed in such case, according to the sta-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

891

(Biddle vs. Wilkim.)
tute in such case made and provided; and that he took upon himself the duty and office of administrator, and has continued to
act as such administrator ever since. S. That the judgment in
the declaration mentioned, was obtained by fraud.,
To the two first pleas a special demurrer was interposed, and
issue to the country taken upon the third, and judgment rendered for the defendant, upon the demurrer; to reverse which,
the present writ of error has been brought. "
. The first plea of ne finques adninistrator,has been abandoned,
as altogether untenable; and the counsel ou the part of the defendant in error, have rested their argument entirely on the
validity of the second plea; and have treated this as a plea in,
bar to the jurisdiction of the Court, in which the judgment
was rendered. It is a little difficult to discover what is the
true character of this plea. It can, in substance, amount to nothing more than an allegation that the plaintiff was not the
lawful administrator of John Wilkins. And in that respect, is
but a repetition of the same matter set up in the first plea; and
that too, in a more exceptionable form. For, the conclusionis drawn argumentatively from the fact set up in the plea, that
he, the defendant, was duly -appointed sole administrator of
John Wilkins, in the Orphans' Court of the county of Adams
in the state of Mississippi; and thence to infer, that the plaintiff could not be the lawful administrator in Pennsylvania.
Such a plea will not stand the test -of a' special demurrer. If
it was intended by this plea, to set up that the defendant was
the first, and only rightfuladministrator of John Wilkins, and
that the debt d e from him, thereby became assets in his hands;
the plea is defettive, in not alleging when administration was
granted to th6. plaintiff. The declaration alleges, that John
Wilkins died a citizen of Pennsylvania; and from any thing
that appears to the contrary, administration might have been
granted to the plaintiff, before it was to the defendant.
The simple fact, that administration had been granted to the
defendant in Mississippi, would not raise any question with respect to the jurisdiction of the Court; and if it furnished any
matter of defence on the merits, against the recovery, on the
ground that it was taking out of his hands assets, the administration of which belonged to him, it should have been set up
in the original action. Nothing appears to invalidate the judgment upon which the present action is founded. The cause of
action does not appear, and we cannot say that the subject matter was not witAin. the jurisdiction of the Conrt, when it vas
rendered; or that there was any disability in the plaintiff, to.
sue in that Court; or that the judgment was void for any cause
whatever. When the Court in which the judgment is render-

692

SUPREME CouRT.

(Biddle w. Wilkins.)
ed has not jurisdiction over &hesubject matter of the suit, or
when the judgment is abiolutely void, this .may be pleaded in
bar, or may in sume cases be given in evidence under the general issue. But the general rule is, that there can be no averment in pleading against the validity of a record, though there
may be against its operation. And it is upon this ground, that
no matter of defence can be pleaded in such case, which existed anterior to the judgment. (Chitty Plead. 481.) Hence, it
has become a settled practice in declaring, in an action upon
a judgment, not, (as formerly,) to set out in the delaration the
whole of the proceedings in the former suit; but only to allege
generally, that the plaintiff, by the consideration and judgment
of that Court, recovered the sum mentioned therein. (Chitty,

54.)
The originalcause of action having passed, in remjudicatam,
-how far the circumstance, that the defendant had taken out
letters of administration in Mississippi, would have availed as
a defence against a recovery of the original judgment, cannot
now be inquired into. Itshould have been set up in the former
suit. But if the first administrator acquired a right to this debt
as assets, and thatmatter was now open to inquiry, there is nothing appearing on this record, to show that the defendant had
acquired any such priority. When letters of administration
.were taken out by the plaintiff, does not appear; nor was- he
bound to show that in his, declaration. He was not bound to
.make profert of the letters of administration. This was so
decided in. the case of Crawford, administrator of Hartove
vi. Whitall. (Doug. 4,-note a.) It was an action of indebitalus
a8umpsit,upon a judg~nent recovered by the plaintiff, a administrator, against the defendant, in the Mayor's Court at Calcutta. And the declaration alleged, that the defendant was indebted to the plaintiff, as administrator, in the sum therein mentioned, which- had been adjudged to him As administrator, &c.
The defendant demurred specially, and showed for cause, that
there was no profert of letters of administration. But the Court
said this was unnecessary, because in this action, (upon the
judgment)the plaintiff had no occasion to -describe himself as
administrator. If then it was a fact, and of any importance in
deciding the legal rights-of the parties ii this case, that administration had bden first granted to the defendant in Mississippi, thatshould have been alleged in the plea, and no objection can be taken to the declaration, as containing the first fault
in pleading.
- That it is not necessary,-in
cases like the present, for the
plaintiff to name himself as administrator, follows as matter
of -course from his not'being bound to make profert of his let-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

695

(Biddle to. W'lkns.)

ters of administration, and that when he does so name himself
it may be rejected, as surplusage, is well settled'by numerous
authorities. In the case of Bonafous vs. Walker, (2 7erin Rep.
196) it was objected that the action ought to have been brought
by the plaintiff as administratrix,; because the judgment on
which the party had been committed in execution, had been obtained by her as administratrix of her husband. But the Court
said, that was unnecessary, for the instant the plaintiff recovered the judgment, it became a debt due her, on record, and
was assets in her hands, for whiph it was not necessary for
her to declare as administratrix. (See also Hob. S01, L: Ray.
1215.) The case of Tallmadge administrator, 8c. vs. Chappel and others, (16 Mass. Rep. 71,) decltied in the §upreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, is very full aud explicit on this
point. The plaintiff declared as administrator, &c. in debt
upon a judgment recovered by him as administrator, in a Court
of Common Pleas, in the state of New-York. The defendant
pleaded in bar, that the parties at the time of rendering the
judgment, were all inhabitants of the state of New-York, and
that the plaintiff was appointed administrator in that state, and
had not been so appointed in Massachusetts. To which plea,
there was a. demurrer and joinder, and the Court held the plea
bad. That the action, being on a judgment already recovered
by the plaintiff, it might have been brought by him in his own
name, and not as administrator. For the debt was due~to him,
he being answerable for it to tie estate of the intestate, and it
ought to be considered as so brought; his style of administrator, being mvrely descriptive, and noteessential to his right of
recovery. That it was important to the purposes of justice, that
it should be so; for an'administrator appointed in Massachusetts could not maintain an action upon this judgment, not being privy to it; nor could he maintain an action upon the original contract, for the defendants might plead in bar, the judgment recovered against them in New-York. The debt sued for
is, in truth, due to the plaintifT, in his personal capacity, and
he may well declare, that the debt is due to himself.
If in the case before us, the judgment is considered a debt
due to the plaintiff in his personal capacity, it is totally immaterial, whether the defendant was or was not administrator of
John Wilkins, in the state of Mississippi. That could not, in
any manner affect the rights of the plaintiff. The plea therefore,
tenders an immaterial issue, and is bad on demurrer.
In whatever light- therefore, we consider this plea, whether
as to the matter itself set up, or to the manner in which it is
pleaded, it cannot be sustained as a bar to the present action.
We are accordingly of opinion, that the judgment of the

694

S.UPREME COURT.

(Biddle vs. Wilkins.)
Court below must be reversed, and the cause sent back with
directions to allow the defendant to plead de novo if he shall
elect so to do.
This cause came on &c., on consideration whereof, It is adjudged and ordered by this Court, that the judgment of the
District Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and it is further ordered that the cause be
remanded to the said Distribt Court, with directions to permit
the defendant to plead de novo, if he elect so to do.

END OF VOLUIE 1.

