.ANUARY TERM, 1828.

NVILLIAm

B.

FRANCIS SWANN; AND THOMAS SwA N,
ERnon, vs. ELISHA Bnowx; DEFENDANT IN

ALEXANDLR

PLAINTIFFS IN

Ennon.

Under the law of Virginia, which directs the Aherifi holding an execution
against the goods and effects of defendants, to take forthcoming bonds,
for the property levied upon by the execution, and authorizes executiqn
to issue for the amount of the debt due upon the original execution, after
ten dayp' notice to the obligors in the bond of the motion for execution, the
property levied on not having been re-delivered, according to the conditio7of the bond; if the notice given to the obligors, of the plaintiff's intention to proceed, is sufficiently 'explicit to render mistake impossible, it
wi1l be sustained, although the whole of the defendants in the original executioi, may not be-named in the notice. Nice and technical objections

to the notice, where every purpose of substantial justice is effected, ought
not to be favoured. 16841

ERROR for the Circuit Court of Alexandria.
This case was argued by Mr. Swam, for the plaintifs, and
Mr. Jones, for the defendant.
The material facts of the case appear in the opinion of the
Court.
Mr. Chief Justice, MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.This was a miotion to the Circuit Court for the, District of
Columbia, sitting in Alexandria, for an award. of execution
upon a forthcoming bond, taken in pursuance of the execution
law of Virginia. That law directs, that if the owner of any
goods or chattels, which shall be taken by virtue of a writ of
fleri faciar, shall tender sufficient security to have the same
goods and chattels forthcoming, at the day of sale; it shall be
lawful for the sheriff or other officer, to take-bond from such
debtor and securities, payable to the creditor, reciting the service of such execution, and the amount of'the 'money or tobacco
due thereon, and with condition to. have the money or tobacco
foRthcomitIg, at the day of sale appointed by such sheriff or
other' officer; and shall thereupon sUffer the said goods and
chattels to remain in the possession, and at the risk of the
debtor, until' that time. And if the owner of such goods and
chattels shall fail to deliver up the same, according to the condition of the bond, or pay the money or tobacco rientioned in
the execution, such sheriff or other officer, shall return the
bond to the office of the clerk of the Court, from whence the
execution issued. to be there safely kept, and to have the force

684

SUPREME COUJRT.,

(Alexander et al. vs. Brown.)
of a judgment; and thereupon it shall be lawful for the Court,
when such bond shall be lodged, upon the motion of the person to whom the same is payable, his executors or administrators, to award execution for the money and tobacco therein
mentioned, with interest thereon from the date of the bond,
till payment, and costs; provided the obligors, their executors
or administrators, or such of them against whom execution is
awarded, have ten days' previous notice of such motion.
In this case, the condition of the bond recited a fiei facias
against William B. Alexander and Richard B. Alexander, but
was levied on the property of William B. Alexander only. The
bond was executed by William B. Alexander, and his sureties.
The notice of the motion to award execution on this bond, was
addressed to the obligors, and impnrted that the motion was
to award execution on their forthcoming bond, bearing date,
&c., and taken by virtue of a writ offierifacias issued, &c. "in
my name, against William B. Alexander, &c."
On the motion, the forthcoming bond, and the execution on
which it was taken, were shown to the Court; and the proceedings were regular in all respects, except that the notice
stated the bond to be taken by virtue~of a writ of fieri facis,
issued against William B. Alexander, whereas it was in fact
issued against-William B. Alexander and Richard B. Alexander. It was admitted, that this was the execution on which
the forthcoming bond was taken, and the only execution in
which-the said William B. Alexander was a party.
The counsel for the defendants took exceptions to the notice,
but the Court gave judgment on the -motion; which judgment
is brought before this Court by a 'writ of error.
The Act of Assembly prescribes, that the.forthcoming bond
shall recite the material parts of fhe execution on which it
is taken, but 'gives no other direction respecting the notice,
than that it shalLbe served ten days before the motion. Its
sole purpose is to inforifi the party that the motion is to be
made, thereby enabling him to show that the money has been
paid; or, that for any other reasons, execution ought not to be
awarded. If it gies him the i nformtion,-which enables him
to do this, it effects all the substantial purposes of justice. A
false recital of the execution, would be fatal, because it might
mislead the obligor; but in this case, the execution was against
William B. Alexander, though not against him alone. He
could not mistake the case in which the motion was to be
made, because, it is admitted, that this was the execution on
which the bond was taken, jand the only ekecution in which the
said William B. Alexander was a party.
After judgment has been rendered, an execution issued thereon and levied, the property restored to the debtor, on his bond

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

685

(Alexander et al. vs. Brown.)
to produce it on the day of sale, and his failuare to do so, we do
not think that nice and technical objections to thenotice, where
every purpose of subgtantial justice is effected, ought"to be favoured. The lawr only requires notice, and where the notice is
sufficiently explicit, to render mistake impossible, we think it
justifies the award of executio.
The'judgment is affirmed, wlth costs 5nd damages, at the
rate of six per centum per annum.

