JTANUARY TERM, 1828.

BEJA

xIN
Bucx & Tao iAs HEnrucx Vs. Tim CimsAPEAuE
INSURANOc

COMPANY.

Insurance. To afqrm, that "in policies fbr whom it may concern," therecn

be no undue concealment as to the parties interested in the property to
be insured," is obviously going much too far; since -the underwriter has
an unquestionable right to be informed, ifhA makes the inyu/. The as.
sured may be silent, it is true, if he will; and let the premium be charged
accordingly; but if the inquiry, when made, should be responded to by
information contrary to the verity of the case, this obviously gives a conventional signification to the terms of the policy, which may differ from
the known and received signification in ordinary cases. 11591
A policy "for whom it may concern," will, in ordinary cases, cover belligerent property. {160
A knowledge of the state of the world-of the allegiance of partular
countries--of the risks and embarrassments affecting their commierde--oj
the course and incidents of'the trade on which they insure, and of the
established import of the terms used in their contracts, must necessaril)
be imputed to underwriters. {1601
The term inter st, as used in application to the right to insure, does not necessarily imply pmperty, in the subject of insurance. 11631
The master of a vessel, to whom property shipped on board the vessel under his command is to be consigned, in the absence of proof that the
owner of the property had not given authority to order insurance, has
an insurable interest in the property on board his vessel; andtbis interest
is sufficient to authorize the recovery of a loss on the policy. 11631
.s to the effect of certain instructions in a letter relative to insurance, and
circumstances connected.with the same, constituting a representation to
vitiate a policy, made under the authority and directions of the letter.

11631

THIS case came before 'the Court, upon a division of opinion of the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United State.%
for the district of Maryland. The action was brought upois
two policies of insurance, upon a cargo of sugar, on board the
brig Columbia, in the mame of the plaintiffs, for the use of
Daniel Fitch; who was an American citizen, a sea captain, sailing out of the port of Baltimore, and the owner and commander of the Columbia; and of Gregorio Medina, of Ponce, in the,island of Porto Rico.
The plaintiffs -were the agents of Daniel Fitch; and, by two
distinct orders, under different dates, had policies effected upon
their application, by the Chesapeake Insurance Company.
The amount of the separate interests of captain Fitch and
G. Medina, was shown-by the following statement. which was
admitted to be correct:

SUPREME COURT.
(Buck & Hedrick vs. The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
The entire cargo embraced in the two policies,
was%8413 75
All marked F. in the bill of JaS.ing, belonging to
captain Fitch,viz :-thirteenhogsheads,fiveti6rces,
and-ninety-two barrels of sugar, amounting toR076 75
Add, charges198 50
Amount of the absolute and legal'or equitable
property of captain Fitch,
. The residue belonged to G. Medina, the legal title
to which, -was in captain Fitch, amounting toAdd charges-

%
7 EZ5
8 5610 65
527 85

AmQ nt of tht two policies-

8413 75
8000 00

Not covered-

8 413 75

The Columlia, with her cargo, sailed from Porto Rico for
Baltimore; the cargo consigned to captain Fitch, and documented as such; G. Medina being on board of the vessel, on a'
visit to the United States. Both-vessel and carg'o were totally
lost, near Norfolk, by the perils of the sea.
The circumstances attending the insurance, and the facts out
of which the controversy arose, were as-follows On the 6th of May 182, the plaintiff presented to the ottice
the following order"Insurance is wanted against all risks, for account of whom
it may concern;- 3000 dollars on the brig Columbia, Daniel
Fitch master, and on cargo, 6000 dollars, as interest may appear, at and from Ponce, Porto Rico, to Baltimore; by a letter
from captain Fitch, dated 19th April, he says he expects to sail
.about 5th to 10th of May, that the brig is in good order, perfectly tight and seaworthy-what premium?"
14 per cent., (written on the order by the office.')
Accepted, Buo & HEDRICK.
A policy was execAted on the same day, on cargo, 6000 dol-'
lars, insuring Buck & Hedrick, E for whom it may concern."
The perilsinsured against are, "of the seas, men of war, fire,
enemies, pirates, rovers, thieves, letters of marque, arrests,
taking at teai restraints of princes; and all other perils, losses,
and misfortunes, for which assurers are legally accountable.
No inquiry was made by the office for the letter of 19th April.
alluded to'in the above order; nor was any warranty or representation of any lMnd made orasked for, in regard to said cargo,
but the office executed said policy on said order.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

153

(Buck & Hedrick vs. The Chesap.ake Insurance Company.)
On the 24th May, Buck and Hedrick made application for
further insurance on cargo; and the folloving letter from Captain Fitch, dated 27th April, was presented to the office, with
an order written on the back of said letter; and a: like policy
was executed for " whom it may concern," without any inqui.
ry for the said letter, of 19th April, and for the same premium.

"Ponce, .6pril 27th, 1822.
"Messrs. Buan & HEDRICKGentlemen-I wrote you a few days ago, by the brig Ospray,
Captaiu Perkins, direct for Baltimore, requesting you to have
insurance done for me, on the brig Columbia and her cargo,
owned and commanded by me, t6 sail from this for Baltimore,
about 5th to 10th May, with a cargo of sugar. When I wrote
to you by the Ospray, I could not say what amount of cargo to.
have insured for me; I now think I shall have on board about
130,000 lbs. valued at 8,000 dollars which amount I wish you
to have insured for me, at as low a premium as you can. I
wish you to understand, that the above sum of 8,000 dollars, is
not in addition to that mentioned in my last. The whole
amount I want insured, is 8,009 dollars on cargo, and 3,000
dollars on the vessel and freight. She is'in perfect good order,
tight in every part, built in New-Jersey in 1814, and well found.
Your attention to the above, will oblige
Your obedient servant,
DANIEL ,FrroH."

On the back of this letter was written the following: " What
will 2,000 dollars be insured at, agreeable to within letter, on
cargo, of which you have 6,000 dollars insured some time since.
Buck & FwHEDRICK.
t4' per cent. (agreed as interest may appear.)
BUcK6& HEDRICK.
Buck and Hedrick applied to the defendant for payment on
said policies, and all the papers to prove the distinct interests
of Medina and Fitch were shown; but the office declined to pay
either, on the ground that said policy covered no one but Fitch,
and that the letter of 27th April, was a representation that the
whole cargo was Captain Fitch's, and therefore affected both
policies.
The plaintiff, on the trial, prayed the Court to charge the
Jury.1st. That as the policies of insurance in this case, purport to
insure the plaintiff " for whom it might concern;" they are not
bound to prove, that at the time of effecting said insurance, or
any other time, they disclosed to the defendants, that Spanish
U
Vol. T.

154

SUPREME. COURT.

(Buck & Hedrick vs. The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
prpperty was intended to be covered by said insurance; and
that in policies of such description, there can be no undue
concealment as t6 the parties interested in the property to be
insured.
2d. That if the jury believed the policy of 6th May 1822, was,
founded on the order of the same date, the said policy being
"6for whom it may concern," does cover belligerent as well as
neutral property.
3d. That if the jury believed that the policy dated 24th May
1822, was founded on the letter of 27th April 1822, and the
order written therein, the policy bfeing "for whom itmayconcern," does cover belligerent as well as neutral property.
4th. That if the said Dapiel Fitch, at the date of said policies, was legal and equitable owner of a part of the cargo insured, and the legal, though not equitable owner of the residue;
the policies " for whom it may concern," do cover the entire cargo; and said Daniel Fitch is competent in law to recover the
whole in his own name, though the belligerent character of a
part of the said cargo, was not disclosed at the time of effecting said policies of insurance.
5th. That the Court instruct the jury, that the letter of 27th
April 1829, with the order written thereon, do not in law amount
to a representation, that the property to be insured, was the
sole property of Daniel' Fitch, or that the whole, or any part
thereof, was not belligerent.
Upon these several prayers, numbered in the record, 1, 2,
3. 5 and 6, the Judges of the Circuit Court, differed in opinion, and certified the same to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Mayer, for
the plaintiffs-and by Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, and Mr.
Meredith, for the defendants.
The plaintiffs' counsel contended, 1st, a policy for whom it
may concern, covers all possible persons and all possible interests, belligerent as well as neutral. Hodgson vs. larine
Insurance Company. 5 Cran 100.
The 'doctrine" has been so settled in France, England, NewYork, Massachusetts, &c. Phil. on Ins., 57 to 63. 107, 2 Mag.
ell. 2 Emeri., 460. Ordi.Hans T. Tit. 1. § 4. 1 EnzerL ch.2, § 4.
ch. 11, § 4. 2 Dane's.dbr. 127. - 1 Iar. on Ins. 306.215, in notes.
Norris's Pec&e, 346-7-8. John. Dig. 274, § 41. 4S. 280, § 108.
Barnwell vs. Church. 1 Caines'Rep., 217. 529. 0S. 288. 243.
Murray vs. Uni. In. Com. 2, John. Cas. 168. Skidmore vs. Desdoity, "P0
John. Cas., 77. Etting vs. Scott, 2 John. Rep. 157.
163. Goix vs. Knox, 1 John. Cas., 337. 1 Mar. on Ins., 306.
310. Lawrence vs. Sebor;2 Caines' Rep. 903. Hagedorn vs. 011.
verson, a Maul and Selw., 485. Sleinback vs. Rhinelander, 3
John. Cas., 269. Vanderheuvel vs. Uni. In. Com-, 2 New-ork

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

_

15

(Buck & Hedick w'.The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
Cas. in Error, 217. 269, and 2 John. Cas., 127. 451. (cranor,
100.. 109. Seamans vs. Loring, I Mason. .128. 125. 1S6.
Was there a concealment of bdligereut interest? Concpalment can only have reference to the c6ntract between the
parties; non-disclosure is not concealment; and the party charging it must show fraudulent intention. As to the words,
" lawful goods and merchandise," the parties refer-to muicipal sanctions only, and not to foreign circumstances. 1 .Tolam
son's Cases, 77. 120. 487.
Upon the doctrine of concealment, non-disclosure, or misrepresentation ; the following positions were assumed, and
claimed to be sustained by the authorities cited.
.1. That no disclosure of any thing within the essential ilature of the policy, could be necessary-and consequentlyi that
no undue concealment can be predicated, either as to the'persons interested, or their country.
2. That there has been heither a representation, nor a mis-"
representation, in regard to the cargo insured.
3. That the first policy stands upon nothing but the order
of 6th May, in which order no one feature of a representation
of neutrality is to be found, but the very reverse.
4. That.the letter, and on which the second policy, viz. for
9.000 dollars, was effected, contains no such representation; in
regard to the cargo then to be insured-and if it did, it was
strictly true, as Daniel Fitch's absolute interest amounted to
2,275 dollars 25 cents.
5. That this letter, if a representation at all, as to the neutrality of the cargo covered.by this second policy, can in no
way affect, by, a retroactive energy, the antecedently executed
policy.
6. That the office, having neglected to make those inquiries,
which, under the circumstances of the case, the law imposed
on it, cannot now transfer to the insured, the effect of, an obligation to disclose voluntarily, what would have been willingly
communicated, had the office, at that time, deemed it of consequence to inquire after.
7. That Daniel Fitch, being the consignee- and trustee of
the whole of Medinas interest, with full authority to insue,
and having the eustod of the entire cargo, lad e on board of
his vessel, had an insurable interest in the-whole; and might,
had he seen fit so to do, have truly representfd the whole as
his own, for the purpose of effecting insurance.
Phill.on Ins. and .'uthorities,64.94. Phil/.on Ins., 86.89. John.
Dig,, page 284, S .43, 144. 146; 147 to 153. ,Wtarton's -Dig.,
319, § 2,3. 30. 32.' Phil. on Ins., 87.- 7Cranch, 506. 1 Caines,
75. 492. 2 John. Cas.r 487. 1 John. Cas., 1. 2 John. Gas., 77.
120. 1 New-York Cases in Error, XXV. 2 John. Rep., 130...

156

SUPREME COURT.

(Buck &Hedck vs. The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
.lnthon'
. P. Cases, 83. Phiff., 69. 90. 4 East, 590. Dennis vs. Ludlow, I Caines, 111. 217. Long vs. Bolton, 2 Bos.
and Pull., 209. Boyd vs. Dubois, .3 Camp., 133. 312. 13 Pep.,
-61. 267. 9 East, 283. 292. 1 Camp.,- 116, 117, 118. 1 Mlaut
and Seiw., 35. Long vs. Duff, 2 fBos. and Pull., 209. Phi!.,
101. Marsha/., 473, note. Brown vs. Shaw, 1 Caines,489. Depeyster vs. Gardiner, 1 Caines, 492. Fort vs. Lee, 3 Taunt.,
381.
2. It was the duty, of thi insurers to inquire into the state
of things at the time of the contract, and there was no representation of a sole neutral interest.
The insured asks to be insured against "all risks;" and it
was therefore the duty of the office to inquire what risks were
intended to be covered.
Authorities cited as to the general'nature of representation:
Mar. on Ins. 450, 451. Phi!M. on Ins. 80. 6 ranch, 274 to 281.
7 Oran. 507, 535, 536, 541. Phil.ostIns. 84. 14 Mass. Rep. 152.
1 Mar. on Ins. 459. Phil!. on Ins. 109, 110. Pawson vs. Watson, Cowp. 785, or Mar. on Ins. 459. Bize vs. Fletcher, Doug.
271, or Mar.-on Ins. 459. Phil.on Ins. 106. Alsop vs. Coit, 12
Mass. Rep. 40, or Phil. on Ins. 110.. Ross vs. Bradshaw, I Black.
Rep. 312, or PhiH!. on Ins. 110. Wharton'sDigest, p. 380. § 28,30,
31, 32. Hubbaid vs. Glover, S Camp. 312. Clapham vs. Colozare,
Camp. 382. Dawson vs. Atty, 7 East, 357.. Hodgson
vs. Marine Insurance Co., 5.Cran. 100. Livingston and Gilchrist vs. Marine Insurance Co., 6 Cranch, 274. 7 Cran. 507.
Vandanheuvel vs. Uni. Insurance Co., 2. Caines' Cases in Error,
257, 267 to 282. Doug. 305.
Authorities cited as to the duty' of underwriters; to make
inquiries- 1 Afar. on Ins. 397, 474, 475. Phill.on Ins. 84, 108,
109. 2Dall.274. 2 Yates, 178. Fortvs. Lee, 3.Taunt. 381. PhilM.
on Ins. 105. '14 East, 479. WTarton's Dig. 319 § 23. 1 Camp.
383. Philll. -n Ins. 63, or.Davis vs Boardman, 12 M8ass. -Rep.
80. Boyd vs. Dubois, 3 Camp 138.
Duplanty vs. Com. Ins.
Co., .qnthWps Rep. 83. Livingston and, Gilchrist vs.- Mary.
Ins. Co., 7 Cran. 508,' 536, 538,547.
3d. That even if.the letter' of 27th April, had asserted that
Daniel' Fitch owned the cargo, it was (as far as the doctrine of
representation is concerned,) substantially true; he being the
legal owner as trustee, and consignee 6f Medina's part, and as
such, competent toosustain an-y action for that part'of the cargo,
and also to repi'esent, though perhaps not to.warrant it; as his.
Phil!. on In. 41, 42, 60. Rind, vs Wilkinson,, 2 Taunt. 23?.
Joseph vs. Knox, 3 .Camp. 320. 3 What. Sew. 774, 775, and
note. M'Andrew vs,. Bell, 1 Cas. N. P. C. $73. Lucenalvs. Crow,
2 New. Rep. 323. 3 Bos. -4 Pull..75: .Phif.on Ins. 58. Mar. on
Ins.,104 to 118, Routhvs. Thompson 11 East, 428. Ludlow

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

15

(Buck & Hedrick s. The Chesapeake Insurance'Company.)
-vs. Browne, 1 John. Rep. 15. Caruthers vs. Sheddon, 6 Taunt.
14, or 1 Serg. and Lowb. 993.
4th. That even admitting the letter of 27th Aprilito be a
gross misrepresentation, it cad, in no way, affect either policy.
Not the first policy, because that poficy was founded solely
on the order of 6th May, and was executed- several weeks before the letter of 27th April was in the country.
Not the second policy, because, as respects that portioff of
the cargo, covered by the 2,000 dollars policy, the letter -was
strictly true, Fitch's interest exceeding that am9unt. 1 Mar.on
Ins. 455, 456. 2 Wheat. Selw. 750, note (41.) Phil. on Ins. 80,
81, 84, 85. Marsden vs. Reid, 3 Bast, 572. Dawson V8. Atty,
7 Bast, 867. Bell vs. Carstairs, 2 Camp. 543. Forrester vs. Pigou, 1,Maul and SeL. 13. Brine vs. Featherstone, 4 Taunt. 87i.
Etting vs. Scott, 2 John. Rep. 157, 162.
On the part of the plaintiff, it was also urged, that the policy
of the 6th of May is not to be connected with that of the 24th
May; no representation was made whatever, when the first policy Was entered into.
The insirnce on the property on board the Columbia, was
properly made under the authority and 6rder of Daniel Fitch;
who, as master of the brig, and in the relations which existed
between him-and Mr. Medina, had a right to order the same.
Even gratuitous insurances, are not void, but voidable. The,
tests of such insurances are, was the premium secure, and hadthe party a right to abandon? The cases cited by the defendants' counsel, do not impugn these priiciples, but sustain them.
Mr. Meredith, and Mr. oWirt, Attorney General, for the defendants.
The letter of the 27th April, was a representation of neutral
property; and it is insisted, that the terms "for whom it may
concern," may be limited by a representation, and the case before the Court; the representatioha was not trn'.
It is admitted that the stipulations in a policy, may be en
larged by a representation, and if enlarged, why not restricted?
Earquart vs. Bernard,, 1 Taunt. 450.
As to a iepresentation and-its effect, thefollowing cases were
cited :-l Seamvs. Lowry, 1 Mlason's Rep. 136. 2Johns. Rep,
-157, 163. 2Caines, 203. 9 Johns. Cas. 451. 173.'
The representation having been made by a resident owner,
was in effect. a warranty of neutrality. Phill.on Ins. 82. '6 Mas.
220. 2 Johns."Cas 451. 173.
A representation must correspond with the facts represented,
and must be as fWourable to the insurers,- as if it bad, beeh
literally true. P1411. on Ins. 10. 2 Johns. Cas. 168. 6 Mass. Rep.
12. No case has been cited by the counsel for the plaintiffswhere the cover of prdperty by fraud was protected. Here,

SUPREME COURT.
(Buck & Hedrick s. The Chesapeake Insunce Company.)
the cover was false, and intended to protect the property of
Medina, a belligerent.
Captain Fitch had not an insurable interest in the property
of Medina, and. as an agent, he was guilty of a misrepresentation. Lucena v8. Crawford, 2 New. Rep. 323. 11 East, 434.
The first policy, exliausted the whdle'of Captain Fitch's inte'-est in the prooefty,, and left- nothing for the second policy;
and the second could not operate, there being a-claim against
prior insurances in -thepolicy.
False lights- were held out to the underwriters by the letter,
and while they supposed they undertook apeace tik, they had
assumed a war risk,
The insured are bound to show, that the property insured
was intended to be insured by, the policy; and there isno evidence of any authority given by,Medina fo Fitch, to cause the
insurance to be made, or that the same was made for him.
-PhilL on In8. 57, 58, -61.. 3 Johns. Oas. 969.
As to-an adoption of a policy, it must be done by the person
for whom the insurance was intended. 2 Maut acd Selw. 485,
1 .aaon' s 1ep. 136.
Mr.Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.This cause comes up from the Circuit Court, for the Maryland District, -on a difference of opinion.
The suit below; -was instituted on two policies of insurance,
the one for 6000 dollars, the other for 2000 dollars, upon the
brig Columbia, Daniel Fitch master, at and from the Spanish
island of Porto Rico to Baltimore, for whwm it may concern.
Buck, & Hedrick were the agents of Fitch, and the policies
were made in their name. The first policy was executed on
the 6th-of May, 1822, and stands unimpeached by any circumoccurring at the time of its execution. But, when apstances
4plication was blade for the. second policy, which was on the
Nth of May, the agents laid before the underwriters a letter, dated Ponce, April 27th 1822, to this effectMessrs, Bu C& HnDnnxK"I wrote. you a few days ago by the brig Ospray,-Capfain
Perkins, direct for B altimore, requesting you to have-in'surance

donefor meok the brig Columbia, aid her cargb,, owned and

commanded by me, to sail from this for Baltimore,. about 5th

to 10th of May, with a caigo of sugar. When I wrote you
by the.Ospray, I could not say what'amount of cargo to have
ineured for me,

I now think* I shall have on bbard -abhut

f30,006 pounds, valued, at 8600 dollars, which. amouint I wish
you to have insuredfor me,' &c.

The rest has no material bearing upon-the -cause. On the
back of this -letter. was .witten. the,-following inquiry:

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

159

(Butk & Hedrick w. The Chenpeake Insurance Company,)

"What'will,2000 dollars 4e insured at agteeable to within
lettir, on cargo, of which you havd '6000 dollars -insured some
time since?

Brcxc S HEDRIcO.

'

"

The vessel,-and- cargo were totally lost -bythe perils of the
sea; and the iihterest proyd at the trial, consisted :of-above
2000 dollars, the property of Fitch, and above- 600Q dollars,
the prpperty of G. Medina, a Spaishi subject, of Porto Rico,.
at that time af4ected with the character of.a belligerent.
The whole, cargo was consigied-to Diniel Fitch; and documented ag his-"Medinia himself bein'on board,. on the .voyage.
- The order 'foi insurance, onm.which the poligy of .ftai May
was effected, was in the folloying words : ' -1nsurazieis wanted, against all risks, for acowtf whoM it'may concern, SOW4)
dollars on the -brig Columbia,' Daniel Fitch. master, and on"
cargo) 6000 dollars, s interest may-appeari at -qnd fr~ni Pdnc.
Porto Rico, to Baltimore- # letter 'rom -Captain Fitch, daived 19th April, says, he-expects.to sal 'about 5th tor 10th. of
May -that the.brig is in go6d 'dtder, .erfectly tight and*seaworthy., What premium?
Both policies, it appears, were.dqne at a premium of,11
and on neither occasion was the'.letter of. ie. 19th' April

called for- by the" office nor was any warranty or representation of any kind-made qr.asked for, 1es'qctmIgthe cargo;beyond ;vhat was voluntarily made, and has 'lien -'tated.
The first instruction on which the Court beldw 'divided, was
prayed for by the pliintiffs, -in these words :.
"That as the policies of insuranc in this case purport to
insure the plaintiffs "for whom it inight coneern, ' they ate riot

bound to prove, that at the time of efibeting the iurahce brany other time,.they disclosed to the defenda.nts'thit Spanish
property.was intended to be'6overed -bythe inqurance;'. an&that
in policies of such description, thre c wbe'no undue cotcealinent as to the parties interestedain tihe property to bem'sured.
Dangerous aiif-always'is, in' aCouir of Justice, to generalize, in the propositions which it decides, itis peculiarly so
in questions arising on policiek of insurance.
The present proposition is obviously couched in-terms too gencral to admit of an answer in the a4rmtive, without reisfriction o modificatibnu.

And as Courts of'Justice-arefidt bound"

to modify or fashion the instructions moved for by c0Unsel, so'
as t6 britg them within the rules of lawj if -this ca"use had
come, up on a writ of error to the judm'ent of the Court below, for refftsing the instruction as pra.d; it would be difficult
to say, that in the terms in which it is-presented, the Court
was bound to give this histruction,
To affirm,'iThat in policies of such. ddscription, there can
be no undue concealment as to the 'parties interested,'i the

160

ST-PREIE "COURT.

(Buck & Hed~ek s. The Chesapeake ImsumrancCompany.)
property to be insured," is obviously going much too far;
since 'the uuderwrit*er has an 'unquestionable right to be informed, if 'he makes inqui'ry-,the assured'may be, silent, it
is true, if he will, and let the premiun be charged accordingly
-but iftthe iliquiry then made should be respon'ded to, with information contrary to the verity of the casep, this obviously
gives aconyven-tional signification to the termsof thbepolicy; which
may differ materially.from the known and received signification in 6r dinary cases. -He, forinstance, who should Insure
"for whoam it may conc e , "'unler an express assurance, that
no. belligerent .intereat .inthe cargo could not, upon
there is.
any'principle, be held to -havemade assurance upon belligerent
interest.
This is no more than. the applibation of the general .princi.contract of .good faith, and is void,
ple, that insurance. isis apva4ctised.
whenever imposition
Will in ordinary
ho
egrno:cocern,"
That a policy" 'fo
•casesovei-helligerent property,. .has been frilly coniceded in
representation
previous
that
argument. Nor is':it contested,
will be sunk or absorbed, or-put out of the c ontract,'where the
policy "isexecuted in obvious-.inconsisten'cy, withl those representations.. But the "ground hete insisted.on for defendants,
is, that the letter of April 27th, was a representation that the
whole cargo was: Captain itch's, and that it thereby operated
as an imposition upon the utderwriters and as such, avoids both
policies; or that it affixes PLconventional meaning to'the Dhrase,
in these policies, vhich limits its ordinary import.
Is there any thi.g in the- cas sufficient to except these
poliie's from the ordi nary-, nport iind effect of,the phrase t' f6r
ithom it may cpncern ?
We. are of opinio. there.is not.
Whatever turn: of expressiou may be given to the question,
or in whafeve'r aspect it may. be presented, itis obviouily, at
last .nq.more thi'th'e simple quesdon,- have these under.writers been entrapped, pi imposed upon, or sedueed into a contract, of the force, extent5 or incidents of which. a competent understanding cannot be impited. to-them? ,
A knowledge of the state of the world,of theL allegiance of parti.cular countries, of-the risks and:embirrassments affecting iteir
commerce, of the course aid incidents of the trade on which they,
insure, and the established import of the terms, used'in their cpn
tract; must necessarily be imputed to underwriters. According
in Pelly vs.
to a listinguished English'jurist, Lord M-ansfield,
A u
The Royal Exchange, &c. (1 Bur.341,) "the i s rer, at the time
of underwriting, has'under his'consideratinthe nature of the
voyage, and the usualmanner of conducting it. And what is usually done by such'i ship, with such a, cargo, in: suchayvoyage, is

JANUARY TERM, 189.8.

1.6]

(Buck & Hedrick vs. The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
understood to be referred to'by every policy. Hence, when a
neutral, carrying on a trade from a belligerent to a neutral
country, asks for insurance "for whom it may concern," it is
an awakening circumstance. No underwriter can be ignorant
of the practice of neutrals to cover belligerent property, under
neutral names, or of the precautions ordinarily resorted to,
that the cover may escape detection. The cloak must be
thrown over the whole transaction, and. in no part is it more
necessary, than in the correspondence by other vessels, so often
overhauled by an enemy, fhr the very purpose of detecting
covers on other cargoes. Letters, thus intercepted, have ofteu
been the grouxld-work of condemnation in Admiralty Courts;
and underwriters, to whom-the extension of trade is always beneficial, must and do connive at the practice in silence. They
ask no questions, propose their premiums, and the contract is
as well understood, as the most, thorough explanation can
make it.
There is nothing in the letter, in evidence, calculated to
mislead an insurer of ordinary vigilance, but what was fully
explained away, by concomitant circumstances. It is true,
that in the letter Fitch writes, to have insurance done for hdim,
on "the brig Columbia and her -cargo;" that he cannot say,
what amount of cargo to have insured for him. Yet, when the
offer was submitted, it was endorsed on the back of this letter,
and expressly declared to be upon the same cargo, of "which.
you have 6,00 dollars insured, some time since."
The insurance alluded to, was made "for whoin it may concern," and this second policy is expressed in the same terms.
Here, then, was a neutral, professing himself to be owner of a
cargo, consisting of produce of the hostile island, on a voyage,
having for its object, to find a market for. that produce-most
unnecessarily, if himself the'real owner, or if there were no owners, but neutrals-most unwisely, subjecting himself, or them,
to aii increase of premium, which could not but result from
such an offer.
This was a circumstance calculated to induce inquiry. The
defendants had a right to make what inquiries they pleased,
as to the real character of the cargo; and if they did not make.
those inquiries, the law impues to therj the use of the phrase,
"for whom it may concern," in its ordinary effect and signification. We are; therefore, of.opinion, that this instruction,ifs.
nodfaled as t bie
confined to the -ease before the Court, ought to
have been given.",
The second prayer, amounting only to an affirmance of the general proposition, as relates to the policy of the 6th May, we
are of opinion, ought to have been given.,
The tNird prayer, having the same bearing upon the policy
VOL. 1.
X

16a

SUPRBME COURT.

(Buck &Hedpick v. Thd'Chesapeake Insurance Company.,
of the.24th May, we are of opinion, for the reasons expressed
in the first' prayer, ought also to have been given.
,By thefith.prayer, the plaintiffs ask of the Court to instruct
the jury, "Th a t if the said Daniel Fitch, at the time of said
policies, was-legal and 'equitable owner, of, part of the cargo
insured; and- the legal, though not. equitable. owner of the
residue, policies, "for whom -it may concern," do cover the
entire cargo; and said'Fitch is competent, in law, to recover the whole, in his own name-though the belligerent character of a part of said cargb, was not disclosedy -at the time
of effectifig-said- policies."
I The language in which this prayer is couched, obviously
imports two propositions; 1st. Thit a policy, "for whom it
may concern," will cover thewhole cargo-though the assured
had. only the legail without the-equitable interest in part, and a
legal and. equitable jnferest in the residue; and, 9d. That Daniel-tich is competent, in law, to recover the whole, in his
owff name-though 'the belligerent character of part was not
disclosed, when thd policies were executed.
. It is a ve'y great objection'to this prayer,'that the language
used, is too general and abstracted; and not adapted to the
case, with that studied precision which the law requires-,-thereby rendering it scarcely possible for the Court to meet it with
a simple, positive, or.affirmative answer.
To thefir8t of the two propositions, it.may be further objected, that-it is difficult t6 perceive, how it came to be intro.
duced into the cause. Abstracted from the effect of belligerent
interest in the cargo, the defeace admits, that the policy covers
all other interests, whether legal, or equitable.
• -And, with regard to the second, it is not easy to perceive, -why
the Court-should be called upon, to charge the jury, that Daniel
Bf ch was competent, in law, to recover the whole in his own
name, when the suit is, in fact,, prosecuted in the name of the
agents; and they count upon the interests of both Medina and
Fitch.
But the cause has been argued, upon the assumption, that
this prayer brings up the question of insurable interest, in
Ptch, by whose instructions, Buck & Hedrick Effected this inurance; and, as it is better to follow out the concessions of
counsel, than to let the cause come up here again, utpon this
point, we will consider thatquestion as being raised by this,
in,.cohnexion with the other prayers.
And here, we think, the facts make up a clear- cae of in-,
surable interest. The only doubt, probably, arises from one of
the mostprolific grounds of uncertainty on many subjects, viz
the use of terms, originally unaptly selected, but now rendered
legitimate, by, use. Iris only necessary to inspect a few cases

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

165

(Buck & Hedrick vs. The'Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
on this doctrine, to be satisfied, that the term interest, as used
in application'to the right'to insure, does not,necessarily imply
property, in the subject of insurance.
In the case of Crawford et al. vs. Hunter, 8 D. & B. is, the
plaintiffs were commissioners appointed by the Crown, under an
Act of Parliament, to superintend the transportation, &c. of
Dutch vessels,' sqized in time of peace, without any present designation for whom-whether to be held in trust, for the original owners, the Crown, or the captor. Thevessel had been carried into St. Helena; and the policy wAs effected, with a view to
her safe transportation, from that island, to England; and, after
much consideration, it was adjudged, that this was a good insurable interest, and th'plaintiffs recovered. "
The same point was afterwards decided, in Lucena vs. Crawford et al. 3 Bo. 4- P. 75, on a writ.of error, to the -Exchiequer,
after three arguments, and great deliberatiot--yet the seizures'
were made befcre declaratZ..n of war; and the interest of the
plaintiffs, amounted to nothing but a power over the subject,
with a claim by quantum me
n
, for their services.
Putting down the present case, therefore, to its'lowest grade
of insurable interest, it is equal to -thatof the plaintiffs, in the
two cases alluded to-for Daniel Fitch'was, at least, the agent
or trustee of Midina, to'tratport his goods from Porto Rico,'
to a market, and to secure them from the chances of capture
and los. But this case is stronger than the Engligh cases cited; for,
by the act of Medina himself, Fitch was exhibited to the world,
clothed with all the national'documents, which evidence an absolute property; and, for many purposes,'the real owner would
have been estopped to deny it.
We will instance the, payment of duties; for which, either
as owner, or consignee, our laws held Fitch absolutely liable.
We have, therefore, no doubt oT the sufficiency of the insurable interest, in this case.
The last prayer, on which the.Court below divided, is-in
these terms:" That the Court instruct the jury, that the letter of the 027th
April 18,12, with the order written thereon, do not, in 'law,
amount to a representation ; that the property to be insured,
was the sole property of Daniel'Fitch; or that the whole, or any
part thereof, was not 'belligerent"
We have already expressed our opinion, on the proposition
here presented. It is to be regretted, that this prayer also, is
so defective, in precision. But, it wag obviously intended, and,
so argued, to be confined to-a representation, which would vitiate the policy1 . With relation to the first policy, we are all of
opinion, that it ivas 'umaffected., by .the letter specified and,

164

SUPREME COURT.

(Buck & Hedrick w. The Chesapeake Insurance Company.)
with regard. to the second policy, whatever might have been
the effect of this letter, had it stood atone--yet, taken in connexion with the concomitant circumstances, it was not fatal to
the contract.
On this point, a majority of the Court would be, understood
to express the opinion, that this letter connected woith the order
endorsed upon it, the previous insuranbe refefred to, and, considered in relation to the state of the.world, and the nature,
character, and ordinary conduct of the voyage insured, was
not such a representation, as, per 8e, vitiated the policy.
And this opinion will be certified t6, the Court below.
This cause came on, &c., on consideration whereof, This
Court -is of opinion-l. That as the policies of insurance in
this cause, purport to insure the plaintiffs "for whom it may concern," they are not bound to prove, that, at the time of effecting the said insurance, or any other time, they disclosed to the
defendant that Spanish propdrty was intended to be covered by
the said insurance, unless inquiries on the subject were propoanded by the insurer, prior to the ins irance. 2. Th at if the
jury believe the policy of the 6th of A(ay 1892, was founded
on the order of the same date, the said policy being "for whom
it may concern," does cover belligerent, as well as neutral interest. 3. That if the jury believe, that the policy dated 24th
of May 182-, was founded on the letter of the 27th of April
1822, and the order written thereon, the policy being "for
whom it may concern," does cover neutral, as well as belligerent property. 4. That if the said Daniel Fitch, at the time of
-thedate- of the said policies, was legal and equitable owner of"
part of the cargo insured, and legal, though not equitable owner of the residue; the policies being "for whom it may- concern," do cover the entire cargo; and that the said Fitch had
a good insurable interest in the whole cargo; and the plaintiffs,
as his agents, are competent to recover the whole su;n insured
thereon, on .proof of such legal and equitatable interest in the
said Fitch. 5.. That the letter of the 27th of April 1824, whatever might be its effect if taken alone, yet, takeh in connexion
with the endorsement thereon, with the previous policy to which
it refers, the actual state of the world, tc., and the nature of
such transactions, is not such a representation as vitiates the
policy. . All ivhich is ordered and adjudged by this Court, t(>
be certified to the said Circuit Courf.

