JANUARY TERM, 18V8.

DANIEL'RHEA AND OTnRIRS, APPFLLANTS, VS. DAN.IEL RIHENNEn.
APPELLEE.

The law seems to be settled, that when the wife is-left by the husband, without maintenance and stpport, has traded as a feme soe, and has obtained credit as such, she ought to be liable for her debts i and the law is the
same, whether the husband is banished for his cimes, or has voluntarily
abandoned the wife. 11081
By the laws of Maryland, a feme covert, who has been abandioned by her

husband, is not permitted to marry a sekond time, until her husband shall
have been absent seven years; aud shall not have been heard of during
that time. 1108}
By those law%, a married woman cannot dispose of real property, without
the consent of her husband ; nor can she execute a good and valid deed
to pass real estate, unless he shall join in it. The separate examination
and other solemnities required by law are indispensable, and must not be
omitted. A deed therefore, executed by a married woman, of real prope'ty, acquired by her while a fne sole trader, while she was abandoned by
her husband, is void. 'k109

THIS was an appeal from the CircuitCourt of the District
of Columbia, and county of Washington; where a bill had been
filed by Daniel Rhenner, the appellee, against Daniel Rhea and
Elizabeth his wife, and William Erskine, an infant, the son
of Elizabeth Rhea, by a former husband, Robert Erskine.
Mr. Cox, for the appellants:i. This case stood beTore the Circuit Court, as to Elizabeth
Rhea, upon the bill and answer; althouigh there may have been
a replication, yet no proof having been taken, the hearing was
1po the bill and answer only.
The proceedini- is altogether irregular as to William Erskine
the infant; the rule being, that when redress is sought against
an infant, all the averments must be made out by proof.
2. Two contracts are set out in the bill, one of which is a
parol contract, and which is denied on the answer; no proof
was given that such a contract had been made, and 'yet the decree proceeds upon it, as if it had been proved.
S. The deed executed by Daniel Rhea and wife, to the appellee, states the consideration to be a debt due by Daniel
llhea, to the grantee; and the bill alleges the debt to have
been one of Elizabeth Rhea. The partiks to a deed, are not allowed to contradict it. 1 T ez. Rep. 128. 2 Piere WTilliam.y,
,104.
4. Elizabeth Rhea, being at the time the debt arose, the wife
of Erskine, could make no contract.
A married woman may act as P.erme sole trader, but it does
Vn.. .
0

406

SUPREME COURT.

(Rhea et al. vs. IRhenner.)
not follow, 'that she can execute a deed. The deed of a married
woman is absolutely void; and to constitute a deed an estoppal,
it should be a valid deed.
5. It was not a sufficient consideration for the Aife of Daiel
Rhea, to pass property away from her own son, for the payment of a debt which, by this deed of conveyance, is stated to
be due by Daniel Rhea, to the appellee.
Mr. Key for the appellee.
The Court below have not given a decree itpon the alleg,ed parol agreement.. The decree allows the property to be
sold for the payment of the plaintiffs' claims, the proceeds to
be brought into Court, where the amount of these claims must
be proved. Elizabeth Rhea Was left by her former husband,
Erskine, -in 1814, carried on business as a feme 8ole trader, in
Georgetown, and as such acquired the lot of ground conveyed
to the appellee; she having contracted the debt to the appellee,
in the course of her trading. The husband having allowed her
to contract debts and to purchase property, thereby consented
that the propertyshould be liable for her debts.
This is a proceeding in a Court of Equity, to sustain a claim,
the justice of which cannot be denied; and it is easier to do so
in such a proceeding, than it would be in 4 Court of Law. 2
Venon, 614. 104. Prec. in Chancery, S28.
The absence of the husband, Erskine, is equivalent to abjuratioi of the realm, or banishment; in either of which cases,
the contracts of a married woman are valid by the law of England. 1 Bos. and.Pull. 357. 2 Ep. Rep. 554.' 4 Esp. Rep. 27.
The deed acknowledged by a privy examination is an estoppal, Cases cited, Coup. 232..7 Mass. 14. 19,
Mr. Justice DUv.A delivered the opinion of the Court.This case is brought up, by appeal, from the Circuit Court
for the district of Columbia and county of Washington, siting in equity.
The appellee, who was complainant, in the Court below, filed his bill in equity, in the year 1822, in the Circuit Court,
against Daniel Rhea, and Elizabeth his wife, and William Erskine, an infant son of said Elizabeth. The bill alleges, that Elizabeth Rhea, formerly Erskine, was indebted to the complainant
in the sum of SO0 dollars, for goods sold and delivered; -that
being pressed for payment, she, with the defendant, Rhea, with
whom she then lived, agreed, that i " allowed further time, they
would secure the debt, by conveying to Rhenner a lot of ground,
No. 165, in Beatty & Hawkins's addition to Georgetown; which
was the property of said Elizabeth, and which had been conveyed to her, by the name of Elizabeth Erskine.
That Rhea, together with the said Elizabeth, 1By their deed,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

107

(Rhea et al. vs: Rhenner.)
bearing date May 13th 1819f conveyed to the complainant the
lot of ground before mentioned, for the purpose of securing
the debt, with interest; and stipulated, that, if the debt
was not paid in two years, it should be held in trust, with
power to sell the same, and apply the proceeds, &c.
The bill further states, that the said Daniel and Elizabeth, a
few days before the date of the deed to the complainant, viz:
on the tenth of May 1819, but after the agreerfient to convey
to the complainant, fradulently conveyea the same premises
to the defendant, Erskine, an infant son of said Elizabeth, in
fee, in consideration of natural love apd affection;-that he,
the said Rhenner, had, at a considerable expense, at the request,
and with the knowledge and approbation of the defendants,
erected improvements on the lot, and put a tenant in possession of the same; but that the defendant, by collusion , soon after
obtained possession of the same, and still keep it, claimih to
hold it under the deed to the infant. The bill concludes with,
praying that the deed to William Erskine may be declared
void, and that the property may be sold to pay his claim, &c.
The defendant, Daniel Rhea, in his answer, admits, that his
wife, before his intermarriage with her, viz: in May 1819, was
the wife of one Robert Erskine, and was engaged in carrying
on business for herself;-that he did agree to join, and did join
her, in the conveyance to the complainant, and in that to her
son;--that he had no title or interest in the premises;-that
the property belonged, in May 1819, to Elizabeth Erskine, who
was a married woman; and he denies all the other allegations
in the bill.
Elizabeth Rhea, in her answer, avers, that she was nwarried
to Robert Erskine in January 1812;-that after her marriage,
in the absence of her husband, one Adam Mayne conveyed tor
her the premises mentioned in the bill of complaint; the deed
bears date on the 7th of April 1817;-that her husband, Erskine,
left .her in the year 1814, and she believed he was alive in May
1819; and that she was not, at that time, the wife of Daniel
Rhea;-that in July 1821, Erskine having then been beyond
seas more than seven years, she married Daniel Rhea; having
received no support from her formcr husband, since he lefe
her.
The answer of the infant is put in by his guardiail, in the
.usual form, submitting to the protection of the Court; without
admitting or denying any of the facts alleged in the bill,
In this state of the proceedings, the Court decreed a sale of
the lot before mentioned, for payment of the claim of the com
plainant; and appointed a trustee to make the sale, under the
terms prescribed in the decree; reserving the claim of the corn
plainant for proof on it. and firther order. From this decree-

108

SUPREME COURT.

(Rhea et al. v. Rhenner.)
there was an appeal, and the cause is now before this Court fr
their decision. The question submitted by the arguments of
the counsel is, whether the contracts and engagements of Elizabeth Rhea, made in the absence of her first husband, and
prior to her marriage with the defendant, Rhea, are obligatory; and to what extent a woman who has been abandoned by
her husband, may contract debts, for which she is personally
liable.
The law seems to be settled, that, when the wife is left without maintenance or support, by the husband, has traded as a
*ftmesole, and has obtained credit as such, she ought to be liable for her debts. And the law is the same, whether the husband is banished for his crimes, or has voluntarily abandoned
the wife. It is for the benefit of thefeme covert, that she should
be answerable for her debts, and liable to an action in such a
case; otherwise she could not obtain credit, and would have
no means of gaining a livelihood. A decision to this effect, by
the Court of Common Pleas, in England, is reported in I Bos.
4- Pull. S59. In delivering the opinions of the Court, Mr. Justice Buller refers to the case of Lady Belknap, whose husband
was exiled. She was permitted to sue in her own name. The
husband, of Lady Sandys, was banished by Act of Parliament
during life; and if was decreed, in her case, that she might, in
all things, act as afeme sole, and as if her husband was dead;
and that the necessity of the case required she should have
such power, (1 Vernon, 104.) And the same reason applying,
where the husband had abjured the realm, the wife, in that
case, was allowed to sue as a widow for her dower. In such
case, she has been permitted to alien her land, without her husband, and is exempted from the disabilities of coverture. It
has been uniformly considered, that banishment, or abjuration,
is a civil death of the husband. In the case of Deborah Gregory vs. Paul, executor of Warburton; reported in the 15th volume of Mass. Rep.; all these cases are reviewed by the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts; and the law recognised.
In the case under consideration, there was a voluntary abandonment of the wife, by the husband, without having furnished
her with the means of support. In his absence, she traded and
dealt as a feme sole, and is liable for her debts. When the
deeds for the lot aforementioned was executed, her husband had
been absent five years"only; she continued under a coverture,
and was the wife of Robert Erskine, her first husband. There
is no evidence that she was, at that time, married to Daniel
Rhea; and if the marriage had been proved, it would hate been
illegal and unavailing. Afeme-covert, who has been abandoned by her husband, is not permitted to marry a second time.
with impunity, until her husband shall have been absent sever

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

109

(Rhea et al. vs. Rhenner.)
years, and shall not have been heard of, during that time. But
by the laws of Maryland, wJich must govcrn in this case, a
married woman cannot dispose of real property, without the
consent of her husband; nor can she execute a good and valid
deed, to pass real estate, unless he shall join her in the dced.
The separate examination, and other solemnities, rcquirecd by
law, are indispensable, and must not be omitted. The deeds
executed by her and Daniel Rhea, in May 1819, are, therefore,
inoperative and void.
The Circuit Court decreed, in this case, upon the bill annexed and exhibits, without further testimpny. They do not, in
themselves, contain sufficient matter for a decree.
It does not appear that any evidence was taken on commis
sion, or otherwise, to establish, or disprove, the material alle
gations in their bill.
The record being thus defectlve, this Court cannot make a
final decision. The decree of the Circuit is reversed, and the
i-ecord remancled for further proceedings.

