JANUARY TERM,

980.

THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS

O0 THE BANK OF WASHINGTON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, VI. PHILIP TRIPLETT AND CHRIS-

TOPHER NEALE, TRADING UNDER TH11 FIRM OF TRIPLETT &

NEALE, DEFEND.ANTS IN ERROR.
The deposit of a bill in one bank, to be transmitted to another, for collec'tion, is a common usage, of great public convenience, the effect of which,
is well understood; and the duty of a bank, recei~ing such a bill for col.
lection, is precisely the same, whoever may be -be owner thereof; and
if it was unwilling to undertake the collection, -ithout precise information on the subject, the'duty ought to have been declined. 301
If, ought
in anyto case,
in which
testimony
was no
offered
a plaintiff,
Court
instruct
the jury
that he had
right by
to recover,
suchtheinstruc.
tion certainly ought not to be granted, if any possible construction of the
testimony would support the action. {31}
By failing to demand payment of a bill held for collection, the bank would
make the bill its own, and would become liable to its real owner for the
amount [31}
The alowance of days of grace for the payment[ of a bill of exchange, or
note, is now universally understood to enter into every bill or note of a"
mercantile character; and so, to form a part of the contract, that the bill
does not become due until thh last day of grace. {31}
It is the usage of the Bank f Washington, and of other banks in tlhe district of Columbia, to demand payment of a bill on the day after the last
day of grace; and th~is usage has been sanctioned by the decisions of this
Court. This usage is equally binding on parties who were not acquainted with its existence, but who have resorted to the bank governed by
such usage, to make the bill negotiable. {32}
The usage pf the place on which a bill is drawn, or where payment is demanded hniformlyr egulates thenumber of days of grace which must be
allowed. {34}.
"
The failure of a.bank holding a bill payable after date for collection, to
give notice to the drawer,that the drawee was~ not found at home, when
called upon to accep.t the bill, is not such negligence as discharges the
drawer from lia liability. {35}-A' bill of exchange, payable ffter date, need not be presented for accept'ance before the day of paymeiit; bet, if presented, and acceptance be
refused, it is dishonoured, and notice must be given. The absenee from
his home, of the drawee of a bill payable after dates wvhen the holder of
a bill, or his agent, calls with it for acceptance, is not axefusal to accept;
but such absence, when the bill is due, is a refusal to pay, and authorizes
a pres~t. {S5}
in a suit instituted by. the holder of a bill, against te'baok, for negligence,
in relation to demand, or nouce of non-payment of the bill, the Court,
although required, are not bound to declare the law as between the
holder and the drawer. The bank was the'agent of the holder, and not
of the drawer, and might,, consequently,, so act, as to discharge the
dra.wer, without becoming lialeI to its principal f36

TRIPLETT &: NEALE, the appellees1 instituted a suit in
the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, against the
Voi., I.
D

SUPREME COURT.
tBank of Washington vs. Triplett & Neale.)
President and Directors of the B 'fnk of Washington, the appe
]ants jfor mal-agency in relation to an inland bill of exchange,
dated Alexandria, 19th June, 1817, drawn by W. H. Briscoe,
for 625 dollars 34 cents, at four months after date, in favour
of Triplett & Neale, upon Peter A. Carnes, Esqr. " Wash
ington City." About the 19th of July, 1817, the plaintiffs, being the h6lders and the proprietors of the bill, placed it irthe hands of the 'Cashier of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, for the purpose of its being transmitted to a bank in
Washington for collection,, they endorsing it in blank for that
purpose. The bill, after being endorsed by the Cashier of the
Bank, to the order of "S. Elliett, Jr. Esqr." was sent by mail
to the Bank of Washington, of which Mr. Elliott was then
Cashier; together with other bills, and notes, without any statement of interest or ownership in the same,' by Triplett &
Neale. On the 19th October, 1817, the Cashier of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, infor'med the Cashier of the Bank
if W'rashington, that 1 the holder of the, draft desired, that if
the draft'should not be.paid, a notary should send a notice to
P. A. Carnes, Baltimore, and to Mr. W. H. Briscoe, at Lees.*burgh, provided the bill should not be paid in Washington."
On the 24th October, 1817, the draft was returned to the Me.
chanics Bank of Alexandria, it having been protested, for nonpayment, on the 23d. of October; the drawer and endorser
laving been regularly notified of the non.payment by the no,
tary When the bill was received in Washington, on the 21st
July, 1817, the drawee was not to be found; one of the officers
of. the Bank having sought him, in order to present the bill to
him,,and who was informed that he was in Baltimore. This
inquiry was repeated three or four days afterwards; with the
•same-results, of which the Cashier was informed. No notice
of thenon-acceptanceof the bill was given by the Bank of Washihgton to the- drawer or to the endorser. Evidenct was given,
by the defendants blow, of the custom in the banks of the city
of Washington, and particularly of the defendants, as to the
mode of-treating bills, when the drawee could not be found, and
as to the practice of protesting or not protesting such bills, for
noua-acceptaluc&" Evidence was also offered, as'to the incQmpetency of Carnes, and Briscoe- to discharge the bill, at the
time of its non-payment; and that since the said period. Briscoe had inherited an estate.
The appdllants, on thie trial of the cause, requested the Court
to instruct the jury.-1st.' That on the evidencei if believed by the jury, the plaintiffs could not recover.
2d. That the plaintiffs are liot. entitled to recover, for an'
*Ioss of recourse against Briscoe, the drawer of- the bill.

JANUARY TERM, 18IR.

£1

(Bank of Washington vs. Triplett & Neal&)
id That the failure of the defendants; after having called
at the residence of the drawee of said bill, to obtain his acceptance thereof, as stated in the evidence of Reilly, and not finding him or any other person there, to accept the said bill; to
notify the drawer of that circumstance, wds not such a negligence as discharged the said drawer from his liability on
said bill; and entitles the plaintiffs to.recover.
4th. That if they believe, from the evidence, that the defendants conformed to their former usage in regard to such bills
as the one in question, in calling on the drawee for acceptance,
the said drawee being from home, and not noting the same
as dishonoured, and giving notice thereof to the parties on the
said bill; then their failure to treat the said bill as dishonoured,
and 'to give notice accordingly, of its non-acceptance, did not
discharge the drawer thereof from his liability to the plaintiffs. All of which instructions were refused by the Court,"
and a verdict was given against the Bank of Washington foiZ
the whole amojini of the claim. The defendants below. took
a bill of e~ceptions, to the opinioh of the Court, dpon the
propositions stated; and thereupon prosecuted this writ of error.
Mr. Key, for the plainiffsi in error. There was no privity
between the plaintiffs be)'w, and the Bank of Wrashington;
the bill was sent- tp the Bank of Washington, by the Mechanics Bank of Alkxaudria, and it was not known that Triplett k Neale were in an manner interested in' it. Before a
contract can be presumed to have been made, with them to
collect the bill, their interest should have been communicated; 2 Cdines,. 41. The plaintiff in error should have had the
opportunity to accept or reject the inquiry, as the collection of
the draft.was only an act of courtesy. The law is with the
plaintiffs in error on this point. § Taunton, 147-1 VeseyJun.
291-2 Johnson, 204. In the last case, a notary piiblic gave
notice of the non-payment of a note to one endorser,, ind failed to notify a prior endorser; the, last enilorser having p.id
the note, it was decided that a suit could not lie against the
notary public fo laches, he- being liable only to the holder
of the note.
Rd. Negligence, and loss in consequence of it, must be shown.
The bill was payable four months after date, and it is -not
necessary to present such a bill for acceptance. Chitty on.
Bills, 205-Philadelphia edition, 1821: as to responsibility,
where prejudice has not arisen; Beawes Lex. Mere. 544, 491,
was cited, -as to the mode of presentation of such a bill-Starkey's Evid. 4, part 456.
3d. If the Bank of Washington was bound to present the
bill, the negligence.of the plaintiffs in error to do this. 'should.'

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of Wasington vs. Triplett & Neale.)
havebeen stated specially in the declaration; and the loss thereby specially averred; 2 Espin, 16--2 Wilson, 325.
4th. The conduct of the Bank was according to their established customs, and to "the practises in other banks, and if
they acted bona Wid, they should. not be charged with the
amount of the bill. The usage is, to protest the bill on the
fourth day .after the nominal day of payment, and the day after the three days of grace. The rule and practice as to non-acceptanced bills, is the same in this particular, with those which
have been accepted.
. Mr. -Jones,. for defendants in error. The claim of the defendants in error, is founded upon the gross negligence of the
Bank-and this is fully made out by the testimony.
1. As tQ the absence of privity between the parties of this
suit. The custom to collect notes for individuals, which prevailed among all banks, and the fact that no other interest existed in the bill, but that of Triplett & Neale, are sufficient to establish privity between the parties to the action. A suit upon a
contract made by 4n agent, may be brought in the name of
the principal; although his interest in the contract does not appear on its face.
2. Negligence is charged in the declaration throughout; and
by-the usages of the Bank, particularly of the present Bank
of the United States, if the drawee be absent when the bill is
recei'ed, and does notpall at the bank and accept, after notice
left at his residence, the hill is protested, and notice given,In this case, the bill should have been protested on the day it
became due, without waiting the days of gracewhich are only allowed, when the bill has been accepted. Mr. Jones cited the case of M'Gruder vs. the Bank of Wa~shington.. 9
Wheat. 598.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered thp opinion of the
Court.-

I This is a writ of error, to a judgment of the
United States'
Circuit Cour -of the district -of Columbia, fof the county
of Alexandria.
On the 19th of June 1817, Wiliam H. Briscoe, of Alexandria, drew a bill on Peter A. Carnes, of 'Washington, payable four months after date, to the order of Triplett & Neale.
The payees of the bill, endorsed it in blank, and delivered it tp
the Cashier of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, for the
.purpose of being transmitted, through the said bank, to a
bank in Washington, for collection.
The Cashier of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandriai endorsed the bill, to the order of the Cashier of the Bank of
Washington, and tiansmitted it to him," for collection, in a

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

29

(Bank of Washington vs. Triplett & Neale.)
letter of the 19th of July 1817. -Neither of the banks had any
interest in the bill.
The bill was protested, for non-payment; and this suit
was brought by Triplett c Neale, against the Bank of Wash-ington, to recover its amount. The declaration charges, that
the bank did not use reasonable diligence to collect the money mentioned in the said bill, nor take the necessary measure- to charge the drawer; but neglected to present the bill
either for, acceptance, or payment; and to hive the same protested; whereby the plaintiffs have lost their recourse against
the drawer.
It was proved, on the part of the bank, that either on the
day. the bill was received, or the succeeding day, one of its officers called with the bill, at the house of the said Peter- A.
Carnes, for the purpose of presenting it for acceptance, and
was told, that he was in Baltimore. He called again, three or
four days afterwards, for the same purpbse; and was again
told, that he was in Baltimore. These answers were reported to the Cashier.
On the 9th of October 1817,' the Cashier of the Mechanics
Bank of Alexandria, addressed the following letter to the Cashier of the Bank of Washington:"DnAR SiR,,
"T he holder of the draft on Peter A. Carnes, for 625 dollars 84 cents, desires me to inform you, that if the draft is
not paid, -to make the notary send a notice to P. A. Carnes,
Baltimore, and likewise to W. H. Briscoe, Leesburg, provided it is not paid at his residence, in Washington." On the
13th of the same month, the Cashier of the Bank of Washington, in answer to this letter, stated that the bill had not
been accepted, because the drawee could not be found; and
that the directions, given, in the letter of the 9th, should be
observed. On the 24th of October, the'fourth day after that
expressed on the face of the bill, as, the day of payment, it was
protested, for non-payment, and returned;" under protest, to
the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria. Notice was given to th
d.-wer, who has refused to pay the same.
On the trial, the counsel for the defendant, moved the Court,
to instruct the jury -,
1st. That upon this evidence, if believed, the plaintiffs are
not entitled to recover.
2d. That the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, for any
loss of recourse against Briscoe, the'drawer of the said bill.
3d. That the'failure of the defendants, (after having PalIed at the residence of xhe -drawee of the said bill, to Obtain
his acceptance, and not-finding him; or try person there to ac- .
Lept it,) to notify the drawer of that circumstance, was not

so

SUPREME COUR'I.

(Bank of Washington vs. Triplett & Neale.)
such negligence, as discharged the said drawer, from his liability, on the said bill, and entitles the plaintiffs to recover.
4th. That if they believed, from the evidence, that the defendants conformed to their former usage, in regard to such
bills, as the one in question, in calling on the drawee for aceptance, (the said drawee being from home,) and not noting
the same as dishonoured, and giving notice thereof to the
parties, on the said bill; then their failure to treat the said bill
as dishonQured, and to give notice accordingly, of non-acceptance, did not discharge the draver thereof, from his liability to
the plaintiffs.
The Court refused to. give either of these instructions; to
which refusal, the counsel for the defendants excepted; and
a verdict and judgment were rendered for the 'plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs in error, insist, that the Circuit Court ought
to have given the-instructions first asked, because, 1st, no privity existed, between the real holder of the bill, and the Bank
of Washington. That bank was not the agent of Triplett 6Neale, but was the agent of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria. Some cases have been cited, to show, that if an agent
employed to transact a particular business;"engages another
person to do it, that other person il not responsible to the principal. On this point, it is sufficient to say, that these cases,
however correctly they may have been decided, are inapplicable to the case at bar. The bill was not delivered to the
Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, for collection, but for transmission to some bank in Washington, to be collected. That
bank would, of course, become the agent of the holder. By
transmitting the bill, as directed, the Mechanics Bank performed its duty, and the whole responsibility of collection
devolved on the bank which 'received the bill for that purpose; the Mechanics Bank was the mere channel through which
'Triplett k Neale. transmitted the bill to the Baik of Washingt6n.
The deposit of a bill in one bank, to be transmitted for collection, to another, is a common usage of great public convenience, the effect of which is well understood. This transfaction was, unquestionably, of that character; and there is no
reason for suspecting that the Bank of Washington- did not
so understand it. The duty of that bank, was precisely the
same, whoever might be the owner of the bill; and, if it. was
unwilling'to undertake the collectioti 'thout precise information -on the subject, that duty ough fo have been" declined.The custom to endorse, a bill put in bank, for collection, is
universal; and the Bank of Washington, had no more reason
for supposing that Triplett & Neale had'ceased to be the real
holders, from their endorsement, than for supposing that the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

31

(Bank-of Washington vs. Triplett & Neale;)
Cashier of the bank of Washington had: become the real holder, by the endorsement to 'them. It is the customary prdceeding, for collection, in such cases; and is for the advan
tage of the party interested. At any rate, the letter of the 9th
of October, disclosed the real party entitled to the money; and
the answer to that letter, -assumes the agency; if it had' not
been previously assumed. The Court is :drcidedly of opinion,
thai the Dank of Washington, by receiving the bill, for collection, and, certainly, by its letter of the, 13th "of October, became the agent of Trijlett & Neale, and assumed .the responsibility attached to that character.
The first prayer of -the defendantO, in the Circuit Court,
being to instruct.the jury, that, upon the whole evidence, theplaintiff ought not to- recover; if it might properly have been
granted, in any case, in which any tesimnony was offered; certainly ought not to have been granted, if any possible construction of that testimony would support the action.
The liability of the 'bank, for the bill placed in its hands for
collection, undoubtedly depends on -the question, whether reasonable and due diligence has been t-sed; in the performance
of its duty. To maintain the charge of negligence, the-couvnsel for Triplett & Neale, have alleged the failure to give notie
of the non-acceptance of the-bill, and the failure to demand payment in proper time. The counsel for the bank, -have brought
the first question more distinctly'into view,, by a more definiteinstruction respecting it; which was afterwards asked; and its
consideration will be deferred, until that prayer shall be discus
sed; but the first must be disposed of, under .th6 general prayer.
Unques.tionablk, by failing to demand payment in time, the7
bank would make the bill its own, and would-becoie liable t6
Triplett & Neale for its amount. The irquiry, therefore, 'is
into the fact.
The demand was made, on the fourth' day after that -mentioned on the face of the bill, as the day of payment;
The defendants in error, 'insist, that, if the'bill was never
presented for acceptance; payment ought to- have'been demanded, on the day mentioned on'its face. "Ifthis be not so,'thenit
ought to 'have been demanded, on ihe third day afterwards.
which'is the last day of grace .
The allowance of days of 'grace, is a usage, which pervades.
the whole commercial world. It 'isnow universally'understood to enter into every-bill, or note, of a mercantile character, and: to form so completely a part of the contract, that the
bill does not become due, in fact, or in law, on-the day mentioned on its face, but on -the last day of grace. A demand 6f
payment, previous to that day, will -notauthorize aprotest. or
charge the drawer of thef bill.

SUPREME COURT.
(Bank of Washington vs. Triplett&
&Neale.)
This is, universilly admitted, if the bill has been accepted.
If it has been notedy for non.acceptance, but has been helu
up, it would not. be protested, -for non-payment, until the last
day of grace. Why, then, should a bill never presented, be
demandable, at an earlier day, than if it had been acceptedi or
if acoptance had-been refused?' Whatever might have beer
the- original motive for the indulgence, it is now taken into
cofisideratioi; both by the drawer and payee Qf the bill. The
amount is, consequenfly, estimated, on the calciiLtion, that it
becomes really due, on the last day of. grace. Neither party
can foresee, when fhi bill is 'drawn,'whether it will be paid,
or not; nor, if it be payable, after dite, whether it will be
presented, or not. Their calculation, therefore, as to the
day when it becomes really due, and is to be paid, is indepehdent of these considerations. No sufficient reason is perceived, for the distinction.
SIt'
is, however, a law dependeut on usage, The books
which treat on. the - subject, concur in saying, that payment
must be demanded when the bill falls due; and that it falls
due, on. the-last Aay of grace. The distinction betveen a bill
which hes, and which has not been presented, has never been
. taken; and it is apparent, that' a bill "'is-never drawn, with
a view to this distincion., *The -fact, that the question has
never been'made, is a trong argument against it. -The point
,has Mever. so6ar as we an find, beeni brought directly before
a Court; 'ad we have seen.onIly one case, in which it has been
even. incidentally m6ntioned,
I In 'Ahderton vi Beck' 8 Pearson, 16 Ekast ,48, a bill was
drawn, payable two mothsafter date, and was not'presented
for acceptance. It was. protested for non-payxent, ard a suit
was brought by.the holder against the drawer. He resisted
the demand, and 'the opinion -of the Court proceeds on the
admission that the bill fell due on the. last day of grace. This
cas.co.nsists, we. believe, 'with the opinions and practice of
comner4al towns.
I Bit if a bill, payable after -date;.and'not presented for acceptance, falls due on' the. same day as if it had been accepted,
the defendants in error insistthat payment ought to have been
demanded'oh the last day of'grace.
It-was proved at the trial, that the' s~ttled usage of the-,Bank
of Washington, at that time, and of all the- other banks in
Washington and Georgeto*n, wai, to'denand payment on the
day succeeding the last day of grace ; and this usageso far -as
respecis 'notes negotiable in " particular bank, has been santtioned by- the decisions'of this Court..
vs. the Bank
of. Columbia, 9 WTAWt. 582, "was a suit brought in a Circuit
Coutrt of the-' Distri-ct of Coluifibia, againsi the endorser of a
-

-Renner

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

83

(Bank of Washington ms,Triplett &Neale.)
promissory note, which had been negotiated in the Bank of
Columbia.. Payment was demanded, and the note protested
on the fourth day after that mentioned in'the note as the day on
which it became payable. This was proved to have been in
conformity' with the custom of the Bank; and the defendant
moved the Court to instruct the jury that the demand was not
in time, and that the endorser was not liable for the note.This instruction was refused, and the defendant brought the
judgment into this*Court by writ of error. The judgment on
great deliberation, was affirmed.'
In this case,' the custom of the Bank was known to the parties to the note. But the question arose afterwards, in a case in.
which the custom was not known to the parties. Mills vs. The
Bank of the United States, It I 7heat. 430, was-a suit brought by
the Bank against the plaintiff in error, and others, on a note
endorsed by him, and negotiated in the office of discount and
deposit of the Bank of the United States, which was pro'tested,
for non-payment, on the day of the last day of grace.
It was proved at the trial, that this was according to the
usage of that Bank. The counsel for the defendant moved the
Court to instruct the jury that this usage could not bind the endorser, unless he had liersonal knowledge of it, at the time le
endorsed the note, The Court refused to give the instruction,
and the jury found a verdict for the Bank, on which judgment
was rendered. That judgment-was brought before this Court,
and affirmed. The Court said, that "when a note, is made
payable or negotiable at a Bank, whose invariable usage it is
to demand payment, and give notice on the fourth day ofgrace, the parties are bound by that usage, whether they
have a personal knowledge of it, or not."
In the case of such a note, the parties are presumed, by implication, to agree to be governed by the usage of- the Bank,
at which they have chosen to make the security itself nego'tiable.
These cases decide that .under consideration, unless there
be a distiniction between- a bil and a note made.negotiable in
a particular bank. In the case of a note negotiable in a particular bank, the parties mayvery fairly be presumed to be acquainted with the usage of that bank. As the decisiuns which
have been cited, depend upon -that presumption, it will become necessary to inquire, how far the: same presumptucn may
be-justified'in the case of.a. bill drawn on a person residing
in'a place where this usage is established.
If a promissory note were made in. the city of Washington,
payable to'a person residing in the same place, though not purporting to be payable and negotiable in bank, it would very
a bank for -collection. It is a, common
probably be placed inE
VoL L

54

SqPREME COURT.
(Bank of Washington vs. Tiiplett & N~eale.)

practice, and the parries would contemplate such an event as
probable, when the note was executed.
The same reason s'eems' to exist for applying the usage of
the bank; to sfich a tiote, as to one expresslyrdade payable and
negotiable in bank. Such notes are frequently discounted,
and certainly the person wi-io discognts.'them, or places them
-inbak for colltion- stands in- precisely the same relation to
the.bank,-as iespects its usage as -if the notes purported on
.the'ir face to'be negotiable in bank. The maker of a negotiable paper, in such a case, may fairly be- piesumed to be ac,quaxnted-twith the ctistonary lawwhich gove'ns that paper,
at his place of,residence.
Iii thecase at bar howeverthe bill *as drawn at Alexandria, on a.person -rdsiding at Washington. Does ihis-circumstance vary the law of the case?
The usage by which questions of this sort are governed, is
AifTernt in differdnt places. It varites from three to thirty
dayso- and" the usage of the place on- which the bill is drawn,
qr -vlere payment i,'.to be demanded, uniformly regulates the
number'tdays of'grace.which must be allowed. This bill
being drawn on a'p.erson residing in Washington; and being
pfrofested for Aon-pajmint "iithe same place, is, according to
the law merchlant, to be. governed by the usage of Washing"tbn.- Could :this.be questioned, still the holder'of the bill; who
placed it, by' his agent, in ie *Bank 6f Washington for coltection,4who has made that bank his agent, without special instrtictions,. submits- his bill to their established usage. The
cases, then;,Wihih have been cIted; are not'different in principle
from- tlxis-and," payment haig
been demandeil, according'to
the ievakible usage of the Lank, war demand&d i,tim6. I.
.then .theobjiections. to the onduct of'the -Bank were confined
to. the demand of-payment, and protest for non-payment, the
first instrmction asKtu-" by the defendahts.in, the Circuit Court,
ought to liae'.been givtn.,Bitt'they are not confined to the debnd of pAymenii and to tae -protest For non-paymeat. They
e.tend'to thd steps tAken by the Bink- concernihg the presentation bf the bill..
" The"-second ingti action asked fQr, is"
ih trirm" which are in
,s6me: degree eq'uidcal. it may imply; either that the recourse
againit the draw'er of the bill-w'as :'it iost,-or tbAt if lost,

.tbat cir'cirstance 'woufd-~o~ ~.i~b
ititle the, piaintiffto recover
agafiwt the -Bank3 as its decikion is hot essential ro the cauie,
it will be passed 'over.
'The thirdis anofe gpecific. T'he'Court is asked to say, that
the failttre-of the Bahk to give aatic "
to the dzawer,. that the
drawee Iwas not fouiid at iome. wheW.called. upon to -accept

JANUARY TERM. 1828.

S5

(Bank of Washington w. Txiplett & Neale.)

the bill, is not such negligence as discharged the drawer
from his liability, and'entitles the plaintiff to -recover.
The question suggested by this prayer, is one on which no
decision is found in the Books.." It depends on analogy, so far
as it is to be decided by adjudged cases. Such .a bill need not
be presented; but if presented, and acceptance be refused, it is
dishonoured, and notice must be givem Had 'the Bank tgkenno step whatever to obtain an acceptance, no violation of duty
would, according to these decisions, have been committed.Can any unsuccessful attempt to do that which the law does
not,require, place the agent in the same situation that he Would
have stood in, had the drawee been. found, and had posi-'
tively refused acceptance? I Absence fron home, with a failure to make provision for payment when a bill beomes -due,
is a failure to'pay; but absence from home when-the holder of
a. bill or his agent offers it for acceptance, is in'no -respect
culpable. Had the drawee received advice of the bill, he
could -not have -not known, that it would be presented for acceptance, because the. law did not require it, and is cone-.,
'quently not blameable for his. absence, when the officers'of
the Bank came to present it for acceptance.' Had the-bill, under such circumstances, been protested for non-acceptance, and
returned, the drawer might. not Ifave" beeu'liable for it. The bill,, then, on'general principles, -ought not' to 'havbeen protested; and the absence of the 'drawee, ought not to'
be considered as equivalent to- his refusal to accept. It might
have been- a prudent precaution, 'to have given information'
that the bill was not accepted, because the drawer had not
been found, but we cannot say, that the omigsion Would subjejct the agent to loss, unless such was the special usage of this'
bank.,
4. The fourth prayer is for an-instruction to thejury, that,
if they believe, from the evidence, that the.defendants conformed to their former usage, in regard to such bills, in calling
on 'the drawee for aceptance, (the' said, drawee being-from.

home;) and not noting the same as" dishonouredj ind giving
notice thereof to the parties on the said bill, then, their fail-,
ore to treat the said bill as dishonou-red, and, to .gi ve9 notice'
accordingly, of non-acceptance, did n't discharge the drawer

thereof, from his liability to -heplaintiff.,
The Court has aleady inidicated the opinion, that this omission to treat the bill as dishonoured, in consequdnce of not
finding the drawee at home, if the usage of the- bank was not
to notice such a circumstance, did-not discharge the drawer;6onsequenfly, this instruction ought to hive been given, unless
it should be supposed foreign to the case in - which it was asked. In a suit brought by the holder against "the bank, the

36

SUPREME COURT.

(Bank of Washington vs. Triplett & Neale.)
Court was not bound to declare the law as between the hold
er and the drawer, unless the liability of the bank was determined, by the liability of the drawer. Although in the general, the
one question depends on the other, yet, it may not be universally
so. The bank was the agent of the holder, not of the drawer, and might consequently so act, as to discharge the drawer.
without becoming liable to its principal. In this case, however, as the agent received on specific instructions, but was left
to act according to the law merchant; a course of proceeding which did not discharge the drawer, could not render the
agent liable to the principal. This prayer was, therefore, essentially the same with that which preceded it, with this difference. The third prays an instruction, whatever might be the
usage of the bank; the fourth prays essentially the same instruction, provided the conduct of the bank conformed to its
usage. This instruction, therefore, ought to have been given,
as prayed. Upon a review of the whole case, the Court is of
opinion, that, if the bank acted in conformity with its established usage, in not noting the bill, and giving notice thereof,
when the ineffectual attempt ".asmade to present it for acceptance, this action could not be supported. With respect to
this usage, the testimony is contradictory, and ought to have
been submitted to the jury, in conformity with the last prayer
made by the counsel for the bank. Tlhe Court erred, in not
giving this instruction, as prayed. The judgment, therefore,
is to be reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
This cause came on, &c., on consideration whereof,-This
Court is of opinion, that the Circuit Court erred, in refusing
to instruct the jury, that if they believed that the defendants
conformed to their former usage, in regard to such bills as the
one in question,. in calling on the drawee for acceptance, (the
said drawee being from home,) and not noting the same as dishonoured, and giving notice thereof to the parties on the said
bill, then, their failure to treat the said bill as dishonoured,
and to give notice accordingly, of non-acceptance, did not dis- 'charge the drawer thereof from his-liability to the plaintiffs. =
It is therefore considered by the Court, that the said judgment be reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a ,enire
facia de novo, and-to proceed therein according to law.

