SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE MINOR, PHILIP H. MINOR, DANIEL MINOR, WILLIAM MINOR AND SMITH MINOR, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, vs. THE
MECHANICS BANK OF ALEXANDRIA, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

It is a general rule, in the construction of public statutes, that the word
"may," is to be construed "must," in all cases where the legislature
mean to impose a positive and absolute duty, and not merely to give a
discretionary power. And in all cases, the construction should be such
as carries into effect !he true intent and meaning of the legislature in
the enactment. 1641
The provision in the Act of Congress, incorporating "the Mechanics Bank
of Alexandria," which requires, that the capital stock of the bank shall
consist of 50,000 shares, often dollars each, is not a condition precedent;
and the bank went legally into operation, -4ithan actual capital less than
that number of shares. 1651
Even if fraud had existed in the original subscription of this stock of the
bank, it would be extremely difficult to maintain that such a fraud, which
was private, between the original subscribers to the stock and the
commissioners, could be set up to the injury of subsequent purchasers
of the stock, who became bonafide holders of the same, without partici.
pation in, or notice thereof. {661
The law requires every issue .t be founded upon some certain point, that
the parties may come prepared .withtheir evidence, and not be taken by
surprise, and the jury may not be misled by the introduction of various
matters. {671
What defects in pleading are, and are not, cured by verdict. 1671
The condition of an official bond, that the officer who gives it, shall "well
and truly" execute the duties of his office, includes not only honesty, but
reasonable skill and diligence. If the duties are performed negligently
and unskilfully; if they are violated from want of capacity or want of
care; they can never be said to have been "well and truly executed."
1691
The officers of a bank are held out to the public, as having authority to
act according to the general usage, practice, and course of their business;
and their acts, within the scope of such usage, practice, and course "of
business, would, in general, bind the bank in favour of third persons,
possessing no other knowledge. 1701
".'oact or iote of the Board of Directors of a bank, in violation of their
own duties, and in fraud of the rights and interests of the stockholders
of the bank, will justify the Cashier of the bank in acts which are in violation of the stipulation in his official bond, "well and truly" to execute
the duties of his office. Acts done by aCashier, under the authority. of
such a vote, or of a usage permitted by the directors, in violation of the
tusts assumed by them, are on the responsibility of the Cashier and of
his sureties. 171}
rhe official bond of the Cashier, must be construed to cover all defaults in
duty, which are annexed to the office, from time to time, by those who are
authorized to control the affairs of the bank; and the.sureties in the bond
are pr esumed to enter into a contract, with reference to the rights and
authorities of the president and directors, under the charter and by.laws.
13}
'ona joint and several bond, The plaintiff may sue one or all of the obligors;

3ANUARY TERM, 1828.

47

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
but, in strictness of law, he cannot sue an intermediate number. He
must sue all or one. But if such error is not taken advantage of by plea
in abateneht, ;t is waived by pleading to the merits. 1731
Accordig to modern decisions, a nioleproseqidoes not amount to a retraxit, but simply to an agreement not to proceed further in that suit, as
to the particular person, or cause of action, to which it was applied- 1741
In an action on a joint and several bond, some of parties' sureties, severed
in their pleadings from the principsl, and a trial and verdict were had
aa.inst them ; afterwards the principal was called upon to plead, and be
did so--judgnient was then entered against the uretes, and a nolleproseui entered against the prnceipal. To this judgment, or the proceedings,
no exception was taken in the Court below) nor was a ne~w trial asked
by the sureties. The Court held, that there is no decision exactly in point
to the case ; that there is no distinction between the entry of a nol!e prosequi, before, and the entry after judgment, as applicable to this case.
The decisions of the Courts of tie United States, upon this proceeding,
have been on the ground that the question is matter of practice and convenience. {7S}
W,hen the defendants sever in their pleadings, a nzolle prosequi ought to be
allowed .igainst 'one defendant. It is a practice which violates no rules of
pleading, and will generally subserve the public convenience. In the administration of justice, matters of form, not absolutely subjected to aixthority, may welil yield to the substantial purposes of justice. {80}
AN Act of Congress w:as passed on the 16th of May 1812,.
entitled "An Act to in~corporate a bank in the town of Alexandria, by the name and style of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria;" which institution soon afterwards went into operation ; subscriptions for fliung up the capital stock of the cbrporation and bank, having been opened in the town of Alexandria, on the first Monday in June 1812, under the direction of,
fifteen commissioners, appointed for that purpose. On the S d
of Sept'ember 1817, Philip H. Minor was elected Cashier of the
bank; antI, on the same duy, by a resolution of the Board of
Dircctors, it was ordered, "that the present officers of the
bank, do the whole duties of the bank.'"
In the office of Cashier Philip H. M inor was the successor
of William Patton jur,
who diedin August 1817; and, before his appointment as Cashier, Philip H. Minor, (who had
several years preceding served as an officer of the bank, for
some time as discount clerk, and afterwards as book-keeper;)
had, in March 1817, been appointed teller for one year, ending
in March 1818, from the time of his appointment; and had
given approved bond and security, conditioned that he would
well and truly execute the duties of the office of teller. After
the appointment of Philip H. Minor, in September 1817, to be
Cashier of the bank; and the order of the Board, on the same
day, relative to the whole duties of the bank being performed

by the then officers of the bank; no renewal of the appoint-

48

SUPREME COURT.

'(Minor et al. tw. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
ment of teller was made, and he usually performed the duties
of Cashier and teller.
On the 19th day of March- 1819i Philip H. Minor, and the
plaintiffs in error, executed.a joint and several bond, in the
suni of. twenty thousand dollars, which contained the following condition "Whereas the above bound Philip H. Minor, hath been
duly elected to the office of Cashier of the Mechanics Bank
of Alexandri , the conditions of the above obligation are such,
that, if the above bound Philip H. Minor, shall well and truly
execute the dutie's-of Cashier of the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, then, this obligation to be void, but otherwise, shall
remain in full force and virtue in law.
"PHILIP

" GoRG

H. Mrson,
MiNoR.

"D. MIoNr,
"WILLIAM
"SrITH

MINOR,

(L. S.)

s.)
I.s.)
s.)

MINOR."

In the Circuit Court of the district of Columbia, for the
county of Alexandria, the defendants in error instituted an action of debt upon this bond, against all the obligors; and the
declaration filed in the same, was for the-penalty, without taking notice of tHe condition.
Oyer of the bond and condition having been prayed, &c.,
the defendants bein the sureties of Philip H. Minor, to wit:
George Minor, Daniel M1inor, William Minor, and Smith Minor, pleaded joint pleas, separate from Philip H. Minor, the
Cashier of the bank. The substance of these pleas was as follows.1. The Mechanics Bank was not competent to sue, because
the commissioners, who, by the Azt of Incorporation, were
authdrized to open and take subscriptions to the capital stock
of the comlanY, and who took the subscriptions, had colluded with the subscribers to the stock, and that 180,000 dollars
of the stock. had been fraudently subscribed; and that an election for directors of the bank was fraudulently and illegally
held, by which the persons named as commissioners, were elected'the directors of the bank;, the votes of the fraudulent holders of the stock, amounting to 180,000 dollars, having been
taken at the said election ;-that afterwards, the sums paid
by tfie fraudulent dr collusve holders of the 180,000 dollars
stock, -were, by the President and Directors, paid back to them;
aid thereby the capital was diminished to 320,000 dollars;
and, by'the said proceedings, the capital stock of the bank
was reduced below 500,000 dollars, as was collusively held out

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

49

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
vo the public; without this, that the plaintiffs, the obligees in
the bond, or any other person whatsoever, at the time and
times of making the said bond, and of commencing the suit
thereon, or at any time whatsoever used, claimed, or exercis.
cd, or yet use, claim, or exercise, the name and stile, privileges.
and capacitiesof the said supposed corporation, or ever claimed to compose the same, otherwise, or by any other ways or
means, or in aty other manner or form whatsoever, than in virtue of the said subscription, conducted and concluded as aforesaid; and so the said defendants say, th6 said supposed writing, obligatory in manner and form aforesaid made, is utterly
inoperativa and void in law; and this, they are read,, to verify.
&c.

The second plea states, that the defendants ought not to be
charged, Sc. &c., because the plaintiffs demand the said debt,
and bring this action, as pretending and claiming to be a corporation aggregle, in-and by virtue of the Act of Congress,
,mentioned in the first plea, by the name of the Mechanics Bank
of Alexandria, to be composed'of the subscribers to the said
Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, which'subscribers were not in
beinR at the time of the passing of the said Act, but were to be
composed of such persons.only, as thereafterimight subscrIbe
thereto, according to the provisions of the Adt; whereas the
subscriptions were not tajcen accordingto'the said provisions,
so as to entitle the persons pretending to be subscribers to the
said Bank, and their successors and assignsto compose the said
corporation, wheref6re'there was not any person authoriied,
or lawfully competent to take the bond,.which is'the subject of
this Mit; nor was there any, such person, at- the "commtncemcnt of this suit, capable of instituting and prosecuting the
same, but that the said persons did, unjustly and illegally arrogate to themselves to cohipose the said corporation, without
the capital stock having been filled.by subscription, or the supposed corporation having been composed of actual subscribers
to the Bank, pursuant to the directions of -the said Act of Congress,- or other lawful warrant whatsoever, contrary to the pur-'
view and effect of the said Act of Congress; and so the defendants say, that the said writing obligatory, was, at-the time
of making the same, and is, utterly void in law, &c.
I The third plea alleged that the Caslier had well and truly
performed the condition of the bond, according, to the teaior
and effect, -and the true intent and meaning of it.
The fourth plea alleged that the Cashier had prformed the
condition* of the bond, "fto the best of his ability, skill and'
judgment," Nithout any fraud, deceit, or wilful default, or
breach of duties, whatever.
The fifth plea alleged that the Cashier had performed his d8Voa. 1.
G

50

SUPREME COURT.

.(Minoret al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexaadria.)
ties, in obedience to, and in pursuance of, the rules, order,
usages and customs of trade a~d business, ordained, established and practised in the Bank, by authority of the President
and Directors thereof.
The sixth plea asserts, that although the duties of the Cash-,
ier bad not been performed by him, yet the non-performance
was by the wrong, connivance and permission of the President
nnd. Directors of the institution.
The seventh plea states, that the Bank had not been damnifled by the acts-of the Cashier.
The eighth plea was, that although the Bank was damnified'by the acts of the Cashier. yet it was by the wrong and connivance of the President and Directors, &c.
The ninth plea states that the business and affairs of t.i
Company, and the conduct and duties of the Cashier, w. e
performed under the regulation and management of the President and Dire'ctors, who had been chosen according to the provisionsof the Act of Incorporation;, and if, at an'y time, the
corporation has sustained damage, since the making of the
writing obligatory, by reason of any matter contained therein,
it has been by the wrong. connivance or permission of the said
President and Directors.
To the first and second pleas, the plaintiffs below put in general demurrers, and on each of the seven remaining pleas,
issue was taken by general replications; all precisely in the
same terms, as follows:
"And -the said Mechanics. Bank of Alexandria, by Thomas.Swann, their attorney, say they ought not to be precluded, &c. because they say that the said cause of action, in the
declaration mentioned, did accrue as in the said declaration
and, breaches are set forth ; without that, that the matters set
forth in- the said plea, are true; and this they pray may be inquired of by the country,, and the defendants" likewise."
But at the next term, the .plaintiffs withdrew these general
replications as to the 3d apd 4th pleas; and to-these two pleas
put in special replications, leaving the issues on the remaining
five to stand on the general replications and issues as above.The reolicatibns thus put in to the 3d and 4th pleas, and rejoinders of the.defejidants, taking issue upon the same, (being
precisely in the same terms. mufatis mutandis, to each,) were
as follbwb:
" And the said Mecb anics, Bank of, Alexandria, by Thomas
Swann,. their attorney, say, that they ought not to be precluded
.'from having and maintaiiiing their action aforesaid against the
said defetidants, George Minor, Daniel Minor, William Minoi;
and Smith Minor, hy any thing alleged by the said defendants
in their third plea, pleaded Os- Aforesaid : Because they say

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Mirtor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
that the Board of Directors of the said Mechanics Bank of
Alexandria, in pursuance of the authority granted to them by
the Act of Congress, inco'rporating the said Bank, did duly
make and declare sundry by-laws for the goVernment of the
said Bank, its officers and affais. and, among other laws so
made and declared as aforesaid, they did enact and declare, in
substance. as follows, to wit:
Section :21, article 5th. It shall be the duty of the Cashier
to countersign, at the Bank, all the bids or notes to be signed
by the President, by order of the Directors; carefully to observe
the conduct of the persons employed under him; duly to examine into the settlement of the cash account at the Bank; count
:he money deposited in the vaults every evening; corapare
the amount thereof with the balance of the cash account of that
,lay, and, in case of disagreement, report the same to the next
.oeeting of the Directors; to see that all deeds appertaining
.tre duly recorded; and to do aad perform all other duties that
may, from time to time, be required of him by the, Pretident or Board of Directors relative to the affairs of the institution.
.. rticle 6th. It shall he the duty of every other officer, clerk,
Alid Srvant of the Bank, to do and per-form all other duties,
that may. from time to time, be required of them respective1%.hy the President and Cashier; and in no case to divulge
the transactions of the Bank.
Article 8th. That no officer of the Bank, the President excepted, shall leave the Bank after it closes, until the Cashier's
a count shall be found to agree, or if it does not agree, until a
,'trict examination be made to discover the error.
Section 3d, Article 3d. That no discount shall'be made
without the consent of a majority of the Directors present;
nor shall any reason be required by the.Directors to each other.
nor assigned to the public, for refusing discounts.
Which said by-laws, so made, enacted, and decla-'d. as
aforesaid, were; at the time of the sealing and delivery of the
writing obligatory, in the declaration mentioned, in full force
and effect. And the said plaintiffs say, that the said Philip
i1. Minor, in the said writing obligatory mentioned, was duly
appointed Cashier of the~said Mechanics Bank of Alexandria;
and, in virtue of his said appointment, did-accept the office of
said Cashier; and, on the day of the date of 'the said writing
obligatory in the declaration mentioned, did thereupon enter
upon the duties of the said Cashier; and the said plaintiffs
further say, that the said Philip H. Minor did not well and
truly execute the duties of the said Mechanics Bank, as Cashier of the said Bank, according to the trne intent and meaning

52.

SUPREME COURT.

(Minor et al. w. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
of the condition of the said writing obligatory, but violated hig
duty as Cashier aforesaid, and broke the condition of the "said
writing obligatory, in the following instances: that is to say,
. 1. That, during the period that the said Philip H. Minor
acted as Cashier of the said Mechanics Bank, under the writinig obligatory, as aforesaid,he, the said Philip, as Cashier aforesaid, received into his, custody, and keeping the moneys of the
said Bank, amounting to. very large sums: that is to say,
amounting altogether to five hundred thousand dollars and upwajrds ; which said moneys, so received as aforesaid, the said
Philip, although often required, hath failed- to account for,
or to pay over to the said Bank, or to make a correct report of
- the same, from time to time, to the Board of. Directors of the
said Bank.
2d. And further, that he, the. said Philip, during the period
aforesaid, and in his capacity of Cashier aforesaid, wrongfully,
and contrary to the duty of hlis office of Cashier aforesaid, did
waste, and suffer to be wasted; of the moneys of the said
Bank, in his care and custody, as Cashier aforesaid, the sum'or
thirty thousand dollars and upwards, whereby the same became,entirely lost to the said Bank.
3d. And the said plaintiffs further say, that the said Philipt
durin.% the period, aforesaid, and in his capacity of Cashier
aforesaid, wrongfully, and contrary to the duty of his office of
Cashier aforesaid, and without the authority of the said Bank,
did apply and appropriate, of the proper moneyof the said Bank
in his care and custody, as Cashier aforesaid, to his own proper
use, the sum of five thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight.
-z3-l79.00
dollars, 'and to the use of Thomas J. Minor and
himself, the said Philip H. Minor, thefurther sum of 5 .1,898.63
5,077.63
so that the said sums .were entirely lost to the said Bank.
4th.' And the plaintiffs further say, that the said P. H. Minor, during tlhe'period aforesaid, and in his capacity of Cashier
aforesaid, wrongfully and contrary to the duty of his office of
Cashier aforesaid, anal without the authority of the. said Bank,
did 'pay away, and did suffer and permit to be paid away, of
the proper moneys and funds of the said Bank in his care and
keeping, as Cashier aforesaid, -to Jabez B. Rooker, divers sums
of money, amounting altogether to the sum of 4,967 dollars 30
cents; and to one Francis Adams, divers others sums, amounting altogether to the sum of 1,884 dollars 18 cents; and to
William F. Thornton divers other sums of money, amounting
altogether to the sum of of 7,407 dollars 25 cents; and to Benjamin G. Thornton divers other sums of money, amounting
altogether to the sum of 4,810 dollars 74 cents; and to Lewis

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

53

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alevandria.)
Hipkins the sum of 2,375 dollars; and to Robert Young divers
other sums of money, amounting altogether to the sum of
9,294 dollars 44 cents; so that the said several sums of money
were entirely lost to the said Bank.
5th. And the said plaintiffs further say, that Jhe said Philip
H. Minor, during the period aforesaid, and in his capacity of
Cashier aforesaid, and without the authority of.the said Bank,
did endorse upon a certain check, drawn by Lewis'Hipkins
upon the said Mechanics Bank, in favour of "note 'in. cityb..r
bearer" for 8000 dollars, that the same was "good,-" when in
fact and in truth, the said Lewis Hipkins had no money or
funds in the'said Mechanics Bank, at the fime of the said endorsement, to pay the said check, nor has he, at any time
since, had in the said Bank any nioney or funds to pay the'said
check, so endorsed as aforesaid, and the said Bank have actually paid and taken upon themselves the payment of the-same.
7th. And the said plaintiffs further say, that Benjamin G.
Thornton, on the 18th day of December, 1818, drew a certnin
bill or draft upon a certain Bank in the state .of Ohio, called
the Bank of New Lancaster; which bill or draft was in substance as follows:
"ALEXANDRIA,
December 18,. 1818. Cabhier Bank of Ne.WLancaster, Ohio. Pay to the order of WV. F. Thornton, - ten
days after sight, four thous;ind seven hundred and fifty dollars,
and charge the same as per advice, to youirs, &c.
...
B. G. TnoxuNTOV."
And the said plaintiffs say, that the said Phil il H. Minor,
while he acted as Cashier aforesaid, under the writing obligatory -aforesaid, wrongfully, and contrary to the duty of his office of Cashier aforesaid, and without the authority of the
said Bank, did advance and pay, upon the credit of the said
draft or bill, to William F. Thornton and Lewis Hipkins,
the amount of the said draft: that is to say, the sum of 4750
dollars; by means of which said advancement, so made
as aforesaid, the said sum has been entirely lost to the said
Bank.
8th. And the said plaintiffs further say, that the said Philip H. Minor, while he acted as Cashier aforesaid, under the
writing obligatory aforesaid,.wrongfully, and contrary to his
duty as Cashier,, and with a view to deceive and mislead the
Board of Directors of the said Bank, did make sundry false
and erroneous entries in the books of the said Bank, in his
care and custody as Cashier aforesaid; and among others, thefollowing, to wit: a charge against the Bank of Alexandria, of

the date of the 31st of August, 1818, for the sum of 1791" dollars; and another against the Bank of Potomac, of the date

54
5

SUPREME COURT.
(Mbior et al vg. The Met chanics Bank of Alexandria.)

of thie Slst of August, 1818,. for the sum of 2581 dollars ;L
cents;" and- another against the Bank of Washington, of the
date of the 2d of March, 1818, for'1000 dollars; when in fact
and in truth, at the periods aforesaid, there was nothing due
from the said'last mentioned Banks to the said Mechanics
Bank; by means of which said false entries and charges, the
said Mechaiiics Bank have.lost the said several sums of money. All which said several matters and things the said plaintiffs are ready to verify. Wherefore, &c.
To these pleas, the plaintiffs in error put in the following
:eplication:
"And the said defendants, George Minor, Daniel Minor,
William Minor, and Smith Minor say, that the said Mechanics Bank of Alexandria ought not to have, or maintain, their
aforesaid action against the said defendants, by reason of any
thing by the said Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, in their said
replication to the said third plea of the defendants, above in
replying alleged; because they say that the said Philip H.
Minor, in the said plea and replication named, did not violate
his duty as Cashier aforesaid, and break the said condition of
the said writing obligatory, in the instances by the said
Mfechanics-Bank'of Alexandria, in their said replication above
pleaded and alleged, nor in any of them, with or by means of
any fraud, or decei, or wilful default -whatsoever. And this
they pray may be inquired of by the country-and the said
Mechanics Bank of.Alexandria in like manner."
&t the ame term, the demurrer to the. first and second pleas,
and the issues on the remaining seven, between the plaintiffs"
and the four surete8, were respectively-argued.and tried ; the
first and second pleas .were adjudged- insuffiient, on general
demurrer; the issues were found for the plaintiffs, and damages, in gross, upon all the iSsues and breaches, assessed against
the four'sureties,at 8607 dollars SO cents; and, upon the motion
of'the plaiiftiffs, a rule was then laid on the p-rincipal obligor
and co- defendant, Philip H. .Minor, to plead to issue on the
morrow. -In complianc e with which rule, he did, withine the
time prescribed, plead five se'vral matters in bar; the same,
2nutatis n andis as-the third, fourth, fifth, seventh and ninth,
of the aforesaid pleas-, put in by the co-defendants, his sur'eties.
A day wds given at the next ensuing term, to the plaintiffs, to
reply.: at which term, the plaintiffs took a-judgment onthe
judg'iment against ihe four defendants, withfwhom the several
issues had beentried as aforesaid ; and then entered a nolleproaequf as against the'co-defendant, Philip H. Minor, who thererecovered judgrient for costs against the plaintiffs.
ulpnQ
On the trial of the cause in the Circuit-Court, a bill of exceptions was taken .to the opinion- of -this Court, upon certain

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
instructions which the Court was requested to give to the jury.
The Court instructed the jury, according to the expressed desire of the plaintiffs below, except as. hereafter stated, but refused to charge the jury, as requested by the counsel of the defendants.
The instructions given by the Court, on the motion of the
plaintiffs' counsel, and on the evidence given in the cause,
were-

Ist. If the jury, from the evidence aforesaid, should be of
opinion, that the said Philip H. Minor, upon his leaving the
Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, that is to say, on the 9th day
of March 1819, failed to pay over, or to account to the said.
bank, for any portion of the moneys of the said bank, received by him as Cashier of the said bank, while he acted as Cashier of the said bank, under the writing obligatory, in the declaration mentioned, then, the jury may, and ought, to infer, that
the said moneys, so unaccounted for,, were wilfully wasted by the
said Philip H. Miaor, or applied to his own use; and that, under such circumstances, the defendants are liable to the bank, for the moneys which he-so failed to pay over, or'account for,
to the said bank.
2d. And the said plaintiffs requested the Court further to instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, they should
be of opinion, that the said Philip H. Minor, while he acted
as Cashier aforesaid, under the writing obligatory afobiesaid,
did wilfully pay or apply, or did, knowingly and wilfully, suffer or permit to be paid away or applied to the use of Thomas
I. Minor and himself jointly, or to himself individually, any
portion of the funds or moneys of the said bank, without the"
authority of the Board of Directors of the said bank, so that
the said sums, or any part thereof, were lost to the said bank;
that the said defendants are liable for the said moneys or funds
so paid away, dr applied and loste
Sd. And the said plaintiffs prayed the Court further to
instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, they
should be of opinion, that the said Philip H. Minor, while he
acted as Cashier aforesaid, under the writing obligatory aforesaid, wilfully paid away or appropriated, or knowingly suflred
or permitted to be paid away, or appropriated to the use of
Jabez .B. Rooker, nVm. F. Thornton, Benjamin G. Thornton,
Lewis Hipkins,. and Francis Adams, or to either of them, the
moveys and funds of the said bank, without the authority of
the Board of Directors of the said bank, so that the said moneys or funds, or any part thereof, were entirely lost to'the said
bank; then, the said defendants are liable for the said moneys"
so paid away, or appropriated, and lost.
Upon the first.and second issues, being the issues under- the

66

,SUPREME COURT.
(Minor Ct a]. vt. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)

third and fourth pleas-and upon the third, being the issue
joined on the fifth plea, the Court gave the instructions as prayed for, by the counsel for the bank. Upon the third issue, being the issue joined in the fifth plea,.the Court gave the first
instruction, with the addition of the following words:-" unless such failure to pay over, or account, for the money so received, by the said Philip H. Minor, was-in obedience to, and
in pursuanc6 of, the directions, rules, orders, usages, and customs of trade and Business, ordained, established, and practised, in the said bank, by the authority of the said President and
Directors."
* Upon the fourth issue, being the issue joined under
the sixth
plea, the Court gave the instructions prajed for, adding, in
each instruction, after the words "directors of the said
bank," the words, "and without the wrong, connivance, or
*permission, of the said President and Directors."
Upon the fifth issue, being the issue joined in the seventh
plea, the Court gave the first instruction, adding the words,
"if the jury should be also satisfied, by the evidence, that mneys, which the said Philip H. Minor so failed to pay over,
or account for, were thereby lost to the bank;" and, upon this
issue also, the Court gave the second, and third instructions.
Upon the sixth and seventh issues, the Court gave the second-and third instructions, adding the words, to make then
applicable, to the fourth issue; and upon the sixth issue, th
Court also gave the second and third instructions, adding, in
each instruction, after the words " Directors of the said bank,"
the words, ." and without the wrong, connivance, or permission, of the said President and Directors."
The counsel for the defendants, then moved the Court to instruct the jury,1. That if it were the established usage and practice of the
said bank, that the Cashier might, in his discretion, permit
customers to overdraw, and to have checks and notes charged
up, without present funds in bank; and for the Cashier to receive and pass,- as cash, checks and drafts, upon other banks;
and if the said balances, so appearing against the several persobis above charged on the books of said bank, arose out of the
exercise-of such discretion, by the said Cashier, and in the
course of the ordinary transactions of said bank, and pursuant
to established usage and course of business there adopted, and
personally known to the said'President and Directors, and practised and continued, with their knowledge, for a series of years,
from the commencement of the bank, to the termination of the
said Philip }. Minor's cashiership; though the existence of
such balances, or the particulai circutmstances attending them,
,Were not formally commnunIcated to the Board of Directors.

JANUARY TERM, 182.8.
(Minor et al. vs. The Mechonics Bank of Alexap dria.)
the jury may infer the appr6bation, assent, and acquiescence,
of the said President and Directors, as to such usage and coursq!
of business.
2. That if the said balances, appearing against the several
persons above charged on the books of said bank, rose in the
course of the ordinary transactions of sai d bank, Iursuant to
the established usage and course of business there adopted, and
known to the President and Directors, and expressly or tacitly
acquiesced in, and approved by them; or if the said President,
and a majority of the directors, were personally' cquainted
with such usage and coure of business, purposely onnived at
the same, and declined investigation, then, the jury may infer,
that the same were approved and "permitted by theesaid President and Directors, though no formal communications of the
same Were 'made, by the said Cashier, to the Bo-rd&of Directors, at their official meeting: a'nd, upon finding stUch to be the
fact, the jury, as to such balances, should findkf t e defendants, under the issues joined on the replications t 'ihe sibLth,
qighth, and ninth pleas.
the Court altogether overrule l and reWhich instructiolis
to the jury.
fused to give
3. If the jury find, from the evidence, that the sevqral officers of the said bank, annually appointed by the said President and Directors, as aforesaid, each gave separate bond and
security, for the faithful performance of the duties f his office;-that the said William Patton, so being Cashier! as aforesaid, died on or about the 28thof August, next ensuing his
last appointment, on the 9th of March 1817; and that on the
third day of September following, the said Philip H. Minor,
having all along aeted as teller, under his said appointment,
as such, for one year, from March 1817, was duly appointed
Cashier, in place of said PattA', and gave bond and security
in the usual form, for the faithful performance of his duties as
such Cashier; being at the same time undee bona. and security for ther faithful performance of his duties ps teller,
for the year, ending in March 1818, as above staLed; that
he continued to be such Cashier, under his said appointment, till th 9th of March 1818, when he was again 4ppointed
Cashier for one year; and on the 19th of the same month, gave
the bond now in suit;-that on the said third of September
1817, the said President and Diriectors, duly passed the said
orders, of that date, appointing the said Philip H. Minor
Cashier,, as aforesaid, and directing the then officers of tle
bank, to do the whole duties of the bhnk; and did not then,
or acy ti.e after the said ninth day of March 1817, make any
iJew appointment of teller;--that the said Philip H. Minor.
from the time of his first appointment as Cashier, usually 'per.
if
VoL. L

58

iSUPREME COURT.

(Mtinor et al vs. The Itechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
formed the duties of teller; which dutiesas well as thoseof Cash
ier, were occasionally, and frequently, during the continuance
of said Minor in the office of Cashier, performed by the other officers of the said bank, whilst the. said Minor was absent, and
otherwise occupied with the business and affaiis.of said bank;-that the separate office of teller was established at the first-institution of said, bank, by the written laws and ordinances of the
President and Directors, as above given in evidence ;--that after the said Pivesident and Directors ceased to appoint a distinct person as teller, as aforesaid, all the distinct functions and
duties of teller, and the forms of keeping the accounts and
transacting the business by the Cashier, or some other officer
of said bank, in the name and capacity of teller, were pursued,
the same as wsben the office of teller was filled by a distinct
person; the practice being still continued, of placing the money of the bank, intended to answer the current demands of
each day, in the hands of the officer as teller, of keeping separate accounts of such ,moneys, and of all deposits, and of all
payments upon checks or otherwise, in the name and capacity
of teller; such accounts being distinct and separate, and in
distinct and separate books from those kept in the name and
capacity of Cashier; and that the said Board of Directors, and
the, proper committees of the same,. in their quarterly and
other examinations and reports of the state and condition of
said bank, and of the accounts of its officers, still kept up the
distinction between the teller's and the Cashier's accounts, and
the teller's and Cashier's money; then,,that the defendants are
.not chargeable in this action for the conduct of said Philip 1I.
Minor, in.the execution, of the duties distinctly appertaining
to the office of teller, Whilst he was Cashier, 'as 'aforesaid.
Which insttuction the Court refused to give, the plaintiffs
having offered'in evidence to the jury, the following by-law of
the said. President and Directors, to wit:Article fifth, in section second of tle by-laws, above given
in evidence; and having also offered in evidence, to prove,,
that, after the appointment of the said Philip H. Minor to the
office of Cashier, on the 9th of March 1818, he did, in fact,
generally perform the duties of teller, with the knowledge of
the President of thie, said bank; from which it was competent
for the jury to infer, that he, the said Philip H1. Minor, as Casher, as aforesaid, was required by the President of the said
bank, or by the Board of Directors of the said bank, to perform the duties appertaining to the office of teller.
Mr. Taylor, and Mr. Jones, for the plaintiffs in error.1. The Plaintiffs below sue in their corporate capacity, untier the Act of Congress, of May 16, 1812, and no such cororation ever existed; it was to exist only, on the happeninc,.g

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

59

vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
(Minor et al.
of a future event. The law does not incorporate a company
already formed, but provides for the erection of the corporation, upon certain conditions, and on certain forms being vomplied with.
The demurrer admits the facts stated in -thefirst and second pleas, and the corrupt evasions of the Act prevented the corporation ever coming into existence. The obligors in the bond
were not thereupon estopped, as the bond was given to supposed or fictitious persons, and not to an existing corporation;
and there was no one in esse to take the bond. ' An estoppal
cannot be alleged against an Act of Parliament. 1 Chitty's
Pleadings, 435. Comn'e Dig. e.batenent, 16. 3 Instructor
Olericalis, 89. Story's Pleadhigs,24.
Dealing with a pretended corporation, does not preclude a
party-from denying its existence; it must have existed de
jur& It'is no objection to the natter in the first and second
pleas, that they are not pleaded in bar; a plea that goes to
show that there never was such a person as the plaintiff; is a
plea in bar. 1 Bos. ,- Pug. 44. 1 Chitty, 425.
The general rule that sealed instruments cannot be opened,
has exceptions, and in -cases of illegal and fraudulent considerations, and considerations ex turpe eausa; a fraud which is injurious to the public, cannot be precluded by any shield of
law. 2 Wilson's Reports, 347. 2 Term Reports, 171.
It is not necessary toresort to a quo.warranto, to determine
the existence of the corporation. The defendant in an action
on a promissory note, may call upon a corporation, if plaintiff, to, show its charter, and the same principle will apply in
this case. A quo warranto, or mandamus wduld be proper, if
the corporation had ever existed, but that was not the fact i
this case; and it is not an answer to the course of proceedings,
here, that it would multiply actions, for such would not be the
fact.
9- As to the effect of the nolle proequi. The action is upqoi
a joint and seve'al bond, and the obligors are sued jointly.
The sureties appeared, and took a separate defence, and a'verdict was obtained against them. The principal pleaded, after
being riled; and at the subsequent time a nolleprosequiwas entered againfst him, and a judgment was taken against the sureties.
The proceeding was erroneous. Upon a joint and several
bond, all the parties must be sued together, or each must be
sued separately-and it is error to sue less than all, unlessthe
suit be against one only. 3 Term Reports, 782. 1 Ien. t - Mhium.
ford, 6). - Mumford 187. 2 laul 4-Selwyn, 23. 0- Rwdolph,
446. 478. 174. 313. 2 Day, 387.. 5 Mlun~ford, 556. 1 Williwnk

SUPREME COURT.
(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
Saunders, 991.vol. 4. 207, n. 2-91. note 4. 1 Henr. Black. 108.
1 Bos. 4- Pull.670. 1 iitty, 39, S3. 546.
If a judgment could not be obtained against four obligors,
on a bond given by five, in a suit so institued, it. cannot be obtained by the entry of a nolleprosequi against one. I Saunders,
207. 1 Chittyon Plead., 32. S8. 546. 5Espinasse'sNisiPriUs
Cases,
47. Jeffray A. Frebain-qhandler vs. Parks et al. 3 Ep. 76. The
cases which impugn the 'doctrine contended for, are Noke
vs. Ingraham, 1 Wilson, 89. 5 Jolmson's Beportg, 160.
If the parties to a joint and several bond are joined in an action, they never can be separated; and if one is discharged, all
are discharged, except in cases of infancy and bankruptcy. I
Henry Black., 108. 1 Bos. 4 Pull. 630. The rationaleof the
rule'is, that the party having made it a joint contract by his
.suit, cannot afterwards make it a several contract. 3 Taunton,
307. 4 Taunton, 468.
. The most important inquiry in this case, is upon the instructions given by the Court.
Mr. Swann, and Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, for the defendants.
The instructions first given, susfain the action, and sweep
away the defence, taking it entirely from the,jury. T.he words
" well and truly" in the condition of the bond, mean only integrity, not capacity. 10 John. 971-and the instruction given
considers the words as requiring skill. The Cashier acted
according to the instructions of the President and Directors,
and to the usage of the Bank. The instruction given precludes
nistake, and'denies that it constitutes a defence,
The demurrers to the first and second pleas, -were not on the
ground of an admission of the facts, but the pleas were considered invalid. It wag not obligatory on the Bank, that the
capital should be 500,000 dollars, as the expression that it
"may" consist of 500,000 dollars, authorizes it to be less, if it
shall be, deemed proper; and even admitting the collusion
charged,. as to the creation of a false capital, to the amount of
180,000 dollars, the remaining capital of 320,000 dollars was
sufficient, under the charter. The pleas are also insufficient,
as, although collusion is set up, there is no certainty in the
charge or allegation of the persons concerned in it, or the place of
the same. The whole purpose of the law is, to limit the amount
of trading by the Bank; and it is not a fair construction of the
Act of Incorporation, to interpret the terms " may-consist"
into "must consist."
The company went into existence in
1812, and the Cashier was appointed in 1817, after many suc,cessivme years of business by the Bank, which could not be a&:
fpecd by the proceedings of 1812.
P, Theplaintiffs in error.are estopped by having execdited this

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

61

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
bond to the Bank, from denying the existence of the corporation. Wlls' Reports, 11, 12. 14 Johnson, 238.
Where the matter which constitutes the ground of an alleged estoppal is new, it is necessary to state it by plea, but not
so when it is contained in the declaration. 1 Chitty's JPleadings, 575.,
The proper mode of contesting the existence of the corporation, would have been by an information, in the nature of a
quo warranto, and it does not rest with every one dealing with
a corporation, to inquire, when called upon t6 comply with
his contract, whether it exists ? It was not necessary to set
out breaches, uutil the defendants, the obligors in the -bond,
had alleged performance, and then the pleas are insufficient; no
breaches need be set out. 1 Chittly, 598. 1 Saunders, 103.
*qrchohl,262. 2 Chitty, 481. But if there are any omissions
or defects in the pleadings, they are cured by the verdict, according to the laws of Virginia.
The instructions given by the Court upon the replication,
and on the evidence, were such as the Court were bound t6
give, and were in strict conformity to the fa~ts; and, if the
Court refused to give the instructions asked for by the plaintiffs in error, they did so upon the authority of the by-laws of
the bank, and the orders of the Board of birectors relative to
the duties of the officers of the bank. Because the custom and
practice might have been to overdra'w the bank, and for its officers to abuse their trust, was this custom to excuse the conduct of the Cashier?
As to the effect of the nolle yrosequi, all the cases referred to
by the plaintiffs in error, are cases of joint contract, and where
the trial was joint. But in this, the four sureties severed from
the principal, and, on their own choice, went to trial alone,
upon pleas put in separate froni the principal.
The verdict has been given -against the plaintiffs in error,
on a trial of their own selection; and they suffered judgment
to be entered- against them, without any objection, before the
principal in the bond had appeared and pleaded.
. The entry of a nolleprosequi, does not admit that the plaintiff had no cause of action, it is not a retraxit or a release, and
does not preclude the commencement of another suit. 1 Wilarms Saunders, 207. .drelbold'sPractice, 87. 1 Saunders, 291.
2 Afaul 4-. Selwyln, 444. 1 Wilson's Reports, 89. 5 John. 160.
Although the law is well stated to be, that a suit on a joint
and several bond must be brought againstal, or against one,
and that you cannot sue four, when there are five joint obligors, yet the objection must be taken by plea in abatement;
and if there is no such plea, and judgment, the consent of the
defendants will be inferred. The following cases were also cited

9SUPREME

COURT.

(Minor et al. s. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
in the argumnent,-Valsh. vs. Bishop, Cro. Char. 239. Abid.
243. Carthew, 9SMr. Justice S-rony delivered the opinion of the Coirt.This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the district
of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.. The plaintiffs in error
were original defendants in the cause, and the suit is now before this Court, upon ihe judgment of the Couri below, upon
certain pleas of the defendants, to which there was a demurrer; and also, upon the instructiqns given and refused by the
Court, upon the trial of certain issues of fact, joined by the
parties.
The action is debt upon an official bond, given by Philip.H.
Minor, Cashier of the bank, and by four other persons, as his
sureties, with condition, that Minor "shall well and truly execute the duties of-Cashier" of the babk; and was originally"
brought against all the parties to the bond. The declaration
proceeds for the penalty of the bond, without any notice of the
condition, and avers, by way of breach, the non-payment of
the penalty. The sureties, after oyer of the bond and condition, (which thereby became part of the declaration,) severed
themselves from the principal, and pleaded nine several pleas.
To the two first of these pleas, demlLrrers were put ini and
the Court below, upon consideration, gave judgment upon the
demurrers in favour of the bank; and the correctness of this
decision, constitutes the first subject of inquiry.
Exceptions have been taken, both to the matter and the form
of ,these pleas; and if the' matter of them, or either of them,
might clonstitute a good bar to the action, it may then be necessary to consider, whether that matter is pleaded with due
propriety'and certainty, according to the established rules of
pleading, so as to escape objection upon general demurrer.
Both of them are, in effect, though not in form, special pleas
of nul teil corporation. The first plea, in substance, avers,
that, by the charter granted'by the Act of Congress, of the
16th of May 181, ch. 87, the capital stock of the .bank was
by the charter fixed and limited, to consist of 500,000 dollars,
bonafide ;-that the whole capital stock was not bowufide filled
up, and subscribed for; but, on the contrary, by a collusion between the commissioners, under whose direction the subscriptions were taken, and the subscribers, a large portion of the capital stock, to wit, 18,000 shares, amounting to180,000 dollars,
were filled up, by false and colourable subscriptions ;the ostensible subscribers, after payment of the first instalments,
were fraudulently permitted to withdraw the same; and future
payments by them, were dipensed with, while they were still
rated and held out, as stockholders, for the purpose of coloura-

JANUARY TERM, 188.

63

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
bly filling up the subscription of the whole capital stock, and
electing a Board of Directors; and that, in this manner, and
by these mbans, and by no other, the bank was put into operation.
This plea is meant to rest upon two grounds, to sustain its
legal propriety. First, that the subscription of the whole capital stock of 500,000 dollars, was a condition precedent to the
putting of the bank into operation as a corporation. Secondly, that the collusion between the commissioners and the subscribers, for the 18,000 shares, being fraudulent, made their
subscriptious a mere nullity.
Various answers have been given at the bar, to the legal sufficiency of the matters thus pleaded. In the first place; it is'
.4aid. that the defendants are estopped, by the bond, to deny
the legal existence of the corporation. In the next place, that
the charter does not make the subscription of the whole capital stock, a condition precedent to the etsblishment of the
bank. In the next place, that the question, whether the bank
was regularly, and bonafide, put into operation, is matter not
inquirable into, in a suit of this nature, but only upon a quo
warranto,instituted by the government; and, in the last place,
that the wiole stock being, in fact, subscribed, the fraudulent
intention and acts of the parties, did not make the subscription of the 18,000 shares a nullity. Let us, then, consider
what is the true construction of the charter itself, upon the
points raised at the argument, supposing it to have been,
(which in terms it is not,) incorporated into the plea, and therefibre judicially before us. The first sectioni of the Act of the
1.6th of May 1812, chap. 87, provides, "that the subscribers to
the Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, their successors and assigns,
shall be, and hereby are created, and made a body politic, by
the name and style of the-Mechanics Bank of Alexandria; and
by such name and style, shall be, and are hereby' made ableand"capable in law, to have, purchase, &c., lands, &c. &c., and
the same to sell, &c, to sue and be sued, &c...&c. ; subject to
the rules, regulations, restrictions, limitations, and provisions,
hereinafter prescribed and declared.4'
In this section, there is no- limitation as'to the number of
the subscribers necessary to constitute the corporation. The
subscribers, whether many or few, are declared to be-incorpo- rated; and, unless there be some restriction or limitation elsewhere in the Act, is is most pianifest, that the Court cannot
intend that any particular amount of subscriptions is indispensable.
The second section provides, "that the capital stock of sail
corporation, may consist of 500,000 dollars, divided into shares
of ten dollars each, and shall be paid in the following manner,

64

SUPREME -COURT.

(Mihor et al. vs..ThelMecbanics Bank of Alexandria.)
that 'is to say: one dollar on each share, at the time of subscribing, one dollar on each share at sixty days, and one
dollar on each share, ninety days after the time of subscribing;
the remainder to be calledfor, as the Presidentand Directors may
deem proper; provided they do not call for any payment in less
than thirty days, nor'for more than one dollar on each share,
at any one time." The argument of the defendants is, that
"may," ifi
this section, means "must;" and reliance is placed
upon a well known rule in the construction of public statutes,
where, the word "may," is often condtiued as imperative.
Without question, such a construction is proper, in all caset
where the legislattre mean to impose a positive and absolute
duty, and not merely to give a discretionary power. But no general rule can be laid down upon this subject, further than
that thit exposition ought to be adopted in this, as in other
dases, which carries into effect the true intent and object of the
legislature in the enactment. The ordinary meaning of the
language, must be presumed to be intended,' unless it would
manifestly defeat the object of the provisions Now, we cannot hay, that there is any leading object in this charter, which
will be defeated by construing the word "may" in its common
sense, as imparting a power to extend the capital stock to
500,000 dollars, and not an obligaticn, that it shall be that sum
and none other. It is by no means clear, from this section,
that -the legislature contemplated that there should be a capital of 500,000 dollars, on'which the bank was to commence,
or.carry on its operations. On the contrary, three instalments
only are required to be absolutely paid in, and the residue of
the capital stock is to be paid in, only when the President and
Directors may deem it proper. So that the capital stock, except at the discretion of the Board, may never extend beyond.
the amount of 150,000 dollars, for any practical purposes,
either as security to the public, or as the basis of discounts.
Now, the plea itself does not attempt to deny that all but
18,000 shares of the ttock were, bona fide, subscribed, for;
so that, for aught that appears, the capital stock, on which
the bank carried on its operation, may have far exceeded that
sum. It has been urged, that public policy requires such an
impeiative construction of the clause, for the public security.
But it is a sufficient answer to that suggestion, that no such
public policy is avowed,, or can be inferred, from the general
terms of the Act. When the legislature intends to restrict
the capital stock of a bank, or to 'require any portion of stock
or stockholders to be indispensable for its legal existence and
operations, it is not uncommon to incorporate such a restriction into the charter. The ontission to do, so, is quite as sig-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

65

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
uificaiit. that the legislaturd did not deem such a restriction
subservient to any manifest public policy.
The legislature might. well presume, after prescribing the
maximum to which the capital stock should extend, that the
actual capital to be employed might safely be left to the discretion of the stockholders, or its agents. The 13th section
of the charter contains provisions for the security of the public
against over issues by the bank, and if any such restriction
had been intended, as the argument supposes, it would naturally have found a place. It declares, that no stockholder shall
be answerable for any losses, deficiencies or failure of the capital stock, for any larger sum than the amount of the stock
belonging to him; excepting, that if the total amount of the
debt of the bank shall exceed twice the amount of its capital
stock, over and above deposits, then the directors shall, in
their private capacities, be.liable for the excess; and if the directors shall not _have property to pay the amount of the excess, then every stockholder shall be liable for their deficiencies, in proportion to their shares in the bank. Whether,
therefore, the capital stock be great or small, if there be debts
due from the bank, exceeding twice -the amount of the capital
stock, which may fairly be construed to meanthe capital stock
actually paid in; the stockholders become ultimately liable for
the excess; and this liability furnishes7 if not an -ample, at leasa reasonable security against the public evils, which the argument supposes might result from not requiring the-whole capital to be subscribed for. At- all events, we cannot perceive
any clear legislative intention to make the subscriptiQn of the
whole capital stock, a condition precedent to the corporate existence of the bank, and unless it is so, made by the charter,
the iAatter of the plea falls, and cannot. sustain the, defence.
I; however, this interpretation of, the charter. could not
be'supported, and the subscyiption of the whole capital
st6ck were a condition precedent, the result, so far as the first
plea goes, would not be varied. 'The fraud and collusion asserted in that plea, if admitted-in its fullest*manner, does not
lead to the conclusi6n which it seeks to establish. "If the subscription, were fraudulently -made, with a view to evade tle
provisions of the charter, the lawi will hold the parties bound
by their subscriptions, and compellable to comply with all the
terms" and responsibilities imposed upon tHem, in the same
manner, as if they were bbna fide subscribers. It will not
make the subscription itself a nullity, but it will deprive the
subscribers of the power:of availing themselves of the same.
_Che third section of the Act manifestly contemplates 'cases of
fraudulent subscriptlo4-and provides, - that all the subscriptions and shares obtained in &onsequence thereof, shall hLg
T
VoL. T.

SUPREME COURI.
(Minor et al. w. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
deemed and held to be for the sole and exclusive use and betxefit of the persons subscribing, or in whose behalf the subscriptions respectively shall be declared to be made, at the time of
making the same; and all bargains, contract*, promises, agreements, and engagements, in any wise. contravening this provision, shall be void; and the person, &c, subscribing,. Scc.
shai'have, enjoy, and receive the share or shares respectively,
&c., and all the interest and emoluments thence arising, as
freely, fully, and absolutely, as if they had severally 4nd respectively paid the consideration therefor; any such bargain,
&c. to the contrary notwithstanding."
This section seems to us conclsive upon the point. It
avoids all bargains contravening the provisjofis in respect to
subscriptions, and gives to the subscriptions the same effect as
if they were bona fide made for the real use and benefit of the
subscribers; and independeiitly of this provision, it would be extremely difficult to maintain, upon general principles of law,
that a private fraud, between the original subscribers and
commissioners, could be pepmitted to be set up, ,to the injury of subsequent purchasers of the stock, who became bona
fide holders, without any partioipation or notice of the fraud. For these reasons, we are of opinion that the matter of the
first plea, even if it had been well pleaded, would constitute
no bar to the actioh.
The second plea is disposed of by the constructionof the
charter already.jintimated, and is fuftber open to fatal objections, from its deficiencY of proper averments, and want of
legal certainty. It makes no averment of the amount of the
capital stock, or of the necessity of the whole bein~g Subscribed for, before the bank is to be put in.operation.
It asserts no fraudulent combination or subscription; but in
the most general terms, withou~t any certainty as tca facts or cir-.
cumnstances, alleges, that the capital stock was not filled up'by
any"subscription, opened and conducted in pursuance of the Act,
so as to entitle the subscribers to bring the action; and that the
subscribers did unjustly and unlawfully, arr-ogate to themselves

the corporate ing.
~mie style, and privileges, without the capital

stock having been filled up by subscription, or the"corporation
having been coxistituted and composed of actual subscribers,
pursuant to"the directions Of the Act,. In point of substance,
as well as form, it is bad, upon the established rules of pleadThis view of the case renders it wholly unnecessary'to consider the point made as .....
to the estoppal, and the necesssity of
a quo warranto on wiaich, therefore, we give no opinion.
The thira and fourth pleas are intended tohe pleas of general perfornance; the third is so, in fact, and pursues the con-

JANUARY TERM, 188.

67

(Minor et al. vs. The Mecbanics-Bank of Alexandria.)
dition of the bond. The fourth is argumentative; and' assumes
a particular legal interpretation of the condition, that is to
say, that the ondition covers only wilful defaults, and breaches of duty, and is no security for competent skill and reasonable diligence in the discharge of ditty, but only for honesty.
To these pleas special replications were filed; ssignlng speial breaches of duty, upon which the'parties were at isske,,
and upon this, and all the other issues in the cause, the jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiffs. No exception has been
taken to the sufficiency of these replications.
The fifth plea states a general performaince ofduty, in obedience to and in pursuance of the" directions, rules, orders, usages
and customs of trade and business, ordained, established 4nd
lractised in the said bank, by the authority of the said President and Directors." rt is, therefore, argumientative aiid supposes that compliance with the rules, orders, usages, &c., established and practised by the President and Directors, whatever they may be, whether within the scope of their'power or
not, would 'be a good and true discharge of'duty. To this
plea, a general replication was put in, "that'thd said cause of
action, in the declaration mentioned, did accrue, as in:the said
declaration and breaches are set forth, without this, that the
matters set forth in the said plea, are true," and this the plaintiffs pray may be inquired of by the country; and the defendants joined in the issue; upon which a verdict"ws found in
favour of the plaintiffs.. An exception has been taken at the
argument to this replication, upoh the ground that it 'ought to
have assigned a special breach, -and that the omission is not
cured by the verdict. There is 'no question that the replication is not drawn with technical accuracy and correctness; and
if the plea be a good plea of general performance, it is clear,
both upon principle and authority, that a' special breach
ought to have been assigned in the replication; and the objection, if iuissted upon by wdy of demnurrer, for that cause, Would
have been insuperable.
The reason is, that the law requires every issue to be founded upon some certain point, that
the parties may come prepared with their evidence, and not
be taken by surprise, and the jury niay not be misted by the introduction' of various matters. A covenant or condition for
general performance, is broken by any single omission, of duty,
and no inconvenience can arise fromstating th~particular breach
with suitable certainty. But it does not follow,- that if not
so stated, the objection" may be taken in any 'stage of the suit.
The rule as to certainty in pleadings, is framed for the benefit of the parties, and may be waived by them, "and-in many
cases, both at common law, and by the statute of jeo fales, defects in this particular are cured by a verdict. It is true, thatin

68

SUPREME COURT.

(Minor eta]. s. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
a declaration upon a covenant for general performance of duty,
if no breach be assigned, or a breach which is bad, as not being in point of law Within the scope of the covenant, the defect is fatal, even: after verdict. Com. Dig. Plead., p. 14. But
that is not the- prcsent case. Here the declaration does assign a good breach, by the non-payment of the penal sum stated in the bond. The defendants disclose the condition of the
bond upon oyer, and set up a general performance of-it; and
the replications though inartificially drawn, puts in issue the
-whole matter of the defence, and denies the performance of it.
The verdict has found that the condition was not performed,
and consequently, upon the whole record, the non-payment of
the penal sum is admitted, and the excuse for it is negatived.
The replication, then, does assert a breach, though in too general a form. It ought to have assigned a special breach;
but the general breach includes it, and the verdict having
found the geheral breach, there is, upon principles, no reason
shown against the plaintiff's right of recovery.
It is exactly like the cage of a declarati n upon a general
covenant of the like nature, where a particular breach ought
to be assigned; and yet if a general breach be assigned, the
defect is cured, by a verdict for the plaintiff. Cam. Dig. Plead.,
48. The objection, then, to the replication to the fifth plea,
cannot now be sustained.
It-is not necessary to notice the remaining pleas, upon which
issues were joined, because a verdict has been found in all of
them in favourof the plaintiffs, however liable to objection
some of them may be, and particularly the seventh plea of
twn darnificatu, as an answer to the declaration. They set
up special defences, and the plaintiffs were not bound to do
more than traverse them.
The.instructions of-tlie Court,.given and refused at the trial, constitutes the next subject of inquiry. - It is conceded,
that if the instructions given on the prayer of the, plaintiffs
were correct, -as to the issues on the third and fourth pleas,
the qualifications annexed to them by the Court in their applications to the other issues, were perfectly proper.
The first instruction is, in substance, that if Minor, upon
his leaving the hank, failed to pay over or to, account to the
bank for any poition of the moneys 'of. the bank, received by
him as Cashier; -then the jury may, and ought to. infer
that the moneys so unaccounted for, were wilfully wasted by
Minor; or applied. to his own use; and under such circum:
stances, the defendants are liable for the same. , We can perceive no error in this instruction; the presumption -of a wilful waste or misapplication of the funds of the bahk by the
Cashier, was a natural conclusion, fron hi failure t6pa'oyer

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

69

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
It was not put to the jury as a presumption capable of being rebutted by evidence showing -a
loss by negligence or accident. If such a loss actually occurred, it was incumbent on the Cashier to prove it, and his total
omission to offer any such proof, which, from the nature of
the case, must be more within his own power, than that of the
Blank, ought to lead the jury to the presumption of the nonexistence of any such negligence, or accidental loss.
It has been argued, that this instruction is the more material
and injurious to the defendants because it proceeds in the latter
part, upon a misconstruction of the true import of the condition of the bond. The condition, that Minor shall "well and
truly execute the duties of Cashier" of the bank, is said to be
merely a stipulation for honesty, in the discharge of the duties,
and not for skill, capacity, or diligence. We are of a different opinion. "Well and truly to execute'the duties of the oflice," includes not only honesty, but reasonable skill and diligence. If the duties are performed negligently and unskilfullyif they are violated, from want of capacity or want of care, they
can never be said to be "well and truly executed." The operations of a bank, require diligende, with fitness and capacity,
as well as honesty, in its Cashier; and the security for t~he faithful discharge of his duties, would be utterly illusory, if we were
to narrow down its import, to a guarantee against pcrsonal fraud
only.
The remarks already made, dispose of the second and third
instructions prayed for by the plaintiffs. These instructions,
in substance, declare that the-sureties are liable upon the bond,
for any wilful or permissive misapplication of the moneys 6f the
bank, which the Cashier knowingly made or suffered, withoui
authority, whereby the same moneys have been lost to the bank.
There-seems no ground, upon which to rest any reasonable objection to such a direction to the jury.
We may now proceed to the consideratioa of the threeinstructions prayed for, in behalf of'the defendants. The first is, in substance, that if it were the established usage and practice of the
bank, that the Cashier might, in his discretion, permit customers to overdraw, and to have checks and notes charged up, without presentfunds in the bank; and for the Cashier to receive and
pass, as cash, checks, and drafts upon other banks; and if the
balances appearing against such persons charged in the books of
the bank, arose out of the exercise of such discretion by the
Cashier, in the course of the ordinary transactions of the bank,
and pursuant to the established usage and course of businiess thereadopted, and generally known to the President and Directors,
practised and continued with their knowledge, for a series of
years from the commencement of the bank, to the termination

or account for the same.

71)

&UPREME COURT.

(Minor et a]. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
of Minor's cashiership, though the existence of such balances#
or th& particular circumstances attending them, were not formally communicated to the Board of Directors; the jury may
infer the approbation, assent, and acquiescence, of the President
and Directors, as to such usage and course of business.
The refusal of this instruction, is matter of no small embarrassment and difficulty to this Court, from the terms in
which it is couched, and the issues on the sixth, eighth, and
ninth pleas, to which, alone, it can be properly applied.
Those issues put to the jury the question, whether the acts of
the Cashier, whatever might be their character or kind, were,
or were not, done by the wrong, connivanceandpermissionof the
Presidentand Directors of the Bank. The point of the instruction is, that the established usage and practice of the bank for
a. long period, known to the President and Directors, does afford a presumption of the approbation, assent, and acquiescence
of the President and Directors, as to such usage and practice;'
thoug'ithe balances resultingtherefrom, were not-formally communicated to the Directors. From the shape of the prayer, it is
undoubtedly meant that such usage and practice was known to
the President and Directors, as a board, and in their official character, and received their approbation as such. In a general view,'
with reference to the principles of the law of evidence, we are not
prepared to admit, that such a presumption could not ordinarily
arise. The ordinary usage and practice of a bank, in the absence
of counter proof, must be supposed to result from the regulations
prescribed by the Board.of Directors; to whom, the charter and
by-laws, submit the general management of the bank, and the
-control and direction of its officers. It would be not only inconvenient, but perilous, for the customers, or any other persons dealing with the bank, to transact their business with the
officers upon any other presumption. The officers of the bank
are held out to the pubic as having authority to act, accordiig to the general usag practice, and course of their business; and their acts within the scope of such usage, practice,
and course of business, would, in general, bind the bank in
favour of third persons possessing no other knowledge. In the
\case of the Bank of the United States vs. Dandridge, (12
\,Reat. 64.) the subject was under the consideration of this
Court; and circumstances far less cogent than the present to
fIund a presumption of'the official acts of the board, were yet
deeme4L sufficient to justify their being laid before the jury, to
raise such a presumption. If, therefore, the usage and piactice alluded to, in the instruction, were within the legitimate
aiithority of the board, and such as its written vote might justify, there would be no question, in this Court, that it ought to
have been given.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

71

(Minor et a]. v8. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
The pertinency of such a presumption, to these issues, cana1ot admit of dispute. But the real difficulty remains to be
stated. Assuming that the Court, upon these issues, ought to
have'given the instruction prayed for, the question is whether
upon the whole record, that is such an error as now justifies
this Court in a reversal of the judgment. Iffthe instruction
had been given, and thereupon, a -verdict upon these issues
had been found fior the defendants, could any judgment have
been given upon these issues, in favour of"the defendants; or
ought the judgment, non obstanfe veredicto, to have been for the
plaintiffs? If it ought, then the error becomes wholly immaterial;
since, in no event, could the instruction, in point of law, have
benefited the defendants. Upon deliberate consideration, we are
of opinion, that the pleas, on which these issues are founded,
are substantially bad. They set up a defence for the Cashier.
that his omission "well and truly to perform" the duties of
Cashier, was, by the wrong, connivance and permission of
the Board of Directors. The question then "comes to this,
whether any act or vote of the Board of Directors, in violation
of their own duties, and in fraud of the rights and interest of'
the stockholders of the bank, could amount to a justification
of the Cashier, who was a pariceps criminis.
We are of opinion, that it could not. However broad and
general the powers of the direction may be, for the government and management of the concerns of the bank, by the general language of the charter and by-laws, those powers arc
not unlimited, but must receive a rational exposition. It cannot be pretended, that the board could, by a vote, authorize
the Cashier to plunder the funds of the bank, or to cheat the
stockholders of their interest therein. No vote could authorize
the directors to divide among themselves, the capital' stock, or
justify the officers of the bank in an avowed embezzlement of"
its funds. The cases put are strong, but they demonstrate the
principle only in a more forcible manner Every act of fraudevery known departure from duty, by the board, in connivance
with the Cashier, for the plain purpose of sacrificing the inter.
est of the stockholders, though less reprehensible in morajs,
or less pernicious in itt effects, than the cases supposed, wouldr
still be an excess of power, from its illegality-and, as such,
void, as an authority to protect the Cashier, in his wrongful
compliance. Now, the yery form of these pleas, sets up the
wrong and connivance of the board as a justification; and such
wrong and connivance canliot, for a moment, be admitted as
an excuse for the misapplication of the funds of the bank, by
the Cashier. ,
The instruction prayed for, proceeds upon the same principles, as the pleas. It supposes, that the usage and practice of

SUPREME COURT.
(Slinor et al.
vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandcia.j
the Cashier, under the sanction of the board, would justify a
known 'misapplication of the funds of the bank. What is that
usage and practice, as put in the case? It is a usage to allow
customers to overdraw-and to have their checks and notes
charged up, without present funds in. the bank; stripped of all
technical disguiie-the usage and practice," thus attempted to
be sanctioned, is a usage and practice to misapply the funds of
the bank; and to connive at the withdrawal of the same, without any security, in favour of certain privileged persons. Such
a usage and practice, issurely a manifest departure from the
duty, both of the Directors and the Cashier, as cannot receive
any countenance in a court of justice. It could not be supported by any vote of the directors, however formal; and,
therefore, whenever done by the Cashier, is at his own peril,
and upon the responsibility of himself and his sureties. It is
any thing but "well and truly executing his duties, as Cashier." This view of the matter, disposes of this embarrassing
point, and also of the second instruction prayed for, bythe defendants; 'which substantially tUrns upon the like considerations.
The third instruction prayed for, in effect, was, that the
Court would instruct the jury, that the defendants are not
chargeable in this action for the conduct of Minor in the duties distinctly appertaining to the office o'f teller, whilst he was
Cashier in the bank, although those duties were duly assigned
to him-; because it constituted a distinct office, and the accounts
and proceedings of the teller, were at all times, kept distinct,
and in separate books, fiom those of the Cashier. In our judgment, this instruction was properly refused. By the fifth article of the second section of the by-laws of the bank, the duties
of the,. Cashier are generally pointed out; and among other
thi'ngs, it is provided, that he shall "do and perform all other
duties, that may from time be required of him by the President or Board of Directors, relative to the affairs of the institution." On *the-appointment of Minor as Cashier, who had proviously acted as teller, the directors passed a vote, "1that the
present officers of the bank, do the whole duties of the bank."
From the other circumstances of the case, the inference is irresistiblei that the duties of teller were, under this vote, assigned to the Cashier. ' If 'so, then the performance of these duties constituted thenceforth a part of the duties of the Cashier, as such;- and as much so, as'if they had been 6riginally
affixed to the office of Cashier. There is nothing in the,nature
of the duties of-teller,, incompatible with those of Cashier;
on the contrary, as is well known, Cashiers often perform
the functions of both. The circumstonc'e, that the office of teller, and distinct'accounts. and bpolcs. were still kept up, doel

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

73

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
not vary the legal result. It was a matter of mere. convenience and regularity, for the government of the- bank, in its
own business; and probably had no higher, or other origin,
than to preserve the same forms and series of accounts, which
the bank had adopted at its first institution. The office of tel-.
ler hgd a nominal, but not a real, existence; and, from the time
of the union of the duties in the Cashier, as such, there was a
legal extinguishment of the separate official character. If the
Cashier had originally had the duties of book-keeper and accountant assigned to him, and, in consequence thereof, had
kept distinct account books in the bank, no one would have
imagined, because he kept separate account books, as Cashier, for his own convenience, or, according to the ordinary
usage of banks; that he would not, under his bond, have been
responsible for mal-conduct, in keeping the general account
books of the bank, to its loss or injury. The bond of the
Cashier must be construed to cover all defaults in duty, which
are annexed to the office from time to time, by those who are
authorized to control the affairs of the bank; and sureties are
presumed to enter into the contract, with reference to the rights
and authorities of the President and Directors, under the charter and by-laws.
The remaining inquiry is, as to the effect of the nolleprose,ui, which the plaintiffs entered against Minor, after he had
pleaded, and after judgment was given against the sureties, in
favour of the plaintiffs, upon all the pleadings interposed by
the sureties. The pleas of Minor were, mutafis 2nutandis, the
same as the third, fourth, fifth, seventh,- and ninth pleas, put
in by the sureties; and the question arises, whether under
such circumstances, (no objection to the judgment appearing
.to have been made by the sureties,) this proceeding is an error,
for which that judgment ought to be reversed. It is material
to state, that the bond- on which the suit is brought, is a joint
and several bond. Undei such circumstances, the plaintiff
might have commenced suit against. each of the obligors, se'verally, or a joint suit against them all., But in strictness of
law, ie has no right to commence a suit againsi any intermediate number. He must sue all or one. The objection, however, is not fatal to the merits, but is pleadable in abatement
only; and if not so pleaded, it is waived by pleading to the
merits. The reason is, that the obligation is still the deed of
all the obligors who are sued, though not solely their deed;
and therefore, there is no variance in point of law, betwveen the
deed declared on, and that proved. It is still the joint deed of the
parties sued, although others have joined in it. This doctrine is
laid down, and very clearly illustrated, in Mr. Serjeant Villiams's note to the case of Cabell vs. Vaughan, (1 Saund. R.
Vo.. I.
K

SUPREME COURT.
(Ifinor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandra.)
MI. INote 2,) where all the leading authorities are collected. If,
therefore, the present suit had been brought against the four
sureties only, and they had omitted to take the exception by a
plea in abatement, the judgment in this case would have been
'unimpeachable. Is the legal predicament of the plaintifts changed, by having sued till the parties, and subsequently, entered a
?wlle prosequi, against one of the obligors? If not in .general,
then, is there any legal difference, where the party in whose
favour the nolle prosequi is entered, is not a surety, but a principlal in the bond? not indeed, so named in the bond, but the
suretyship resulting as a necessary inference from the nature
and terms of the condition.
These questions must be decided by authority, if any such
exist; if none can be found, then, they must be decided by
analogy and principle. It may be proper, in this view, again
to notice the fact, that this suit is on a joint and several bond;
that the defendants severed in their pleas from the principal;
that the trial of the issues, (which undoubtedly ought to have
been, by the regular course of practice, deferred until the cause
was at issue, as to all the parties, or the steps of the law
taken to bring them into default;) does not appear upon'the record to have been opposed, and that no motion was made in
arrest of judgment, or for a postponement, until a trial of the
issues upon the pleas of the principal might have been had.
What would have been the proper proceedings under such
circumstances, whether to try all the issues by the same jury,
and have damages assessed at the same time against all the det'en'dants; or whether there might have been several trials, and
several assessments of damages; and whether, if such several
assessments had been made, and differed in amount, any, and
what judgment, ought to have been entered; are points upon
-which the Court does not think it necessary to give any opinion.
The nature and effect of a nolleprosequi,was not well definec,
or understood, in early times; and the older authorities involve
contradictory Conclusions. In some cases it was considered in
the nature of a retraxit, operating as a full release and discharge
of the action, and, of course, as a bar to any future suit. In
other cases it was held not to amount to a retraxit, but simply
to an agreement not to proceed further in-that suit, as to thr
particular person, or cause of action, to which it was applied.
And this latter doctrine has been constantly adhered to, in modlern times, and. constitutes the received law. In cases of tort
against several defendants, though they all join in the same
p lea, and are found j6intly guilty, et the plaintiff may, after
verdict, enter a nolle prosequi, as to some of them, and take
judgment against the rest. The reason is said to be, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

75

(Minor et al. vs. The NMechanics Bank of Alexandiia.)
action is in its nature joint and severid: and, as the plaintiff
might originally have commenced. his suit against one only.
and proceeded to judgment and execution against him alone,
ao he might, after verdict against several, elect to take his damages against either of them. .8 fortiori, the same doctrine
applies where the defendants sever in' their pleas, Indeed, in
fort, as we shall hereafter see, it does not seem to have leen
denied. that cases might exist, in which, if the defendants severed in their pleas, the plaintiff might, after judgment against
one, have entered a nolle prosequi as to the others. The doubt
was, whether he could do so before judgment', which was finally
settled in favour of t rebi&L and in such cases, where several
damages were assessed against the different defendants, the
difficulty was afterwards cured, by'entering a nolle prosequi
as to.all but one defendant. And in the same manner, a misjoinder of improper parties is sometimes aided. The authorities on this subject, will be found summed up with great accuracy, in a note of Mr. Serjeant Williams, to the case of Salmons vs. Smith, (1 &und. R. 207, note 2.) In thesame note, the
learned editor adds, "if an action is brought upon any contract against several defendants, who join in their pleas, and a
verdict is. found against them, it is apprehended the plaintiff
cannot enter a nolleprosequi against any of them; because the
contract being joint, the plaiitiff is coimpellable to bring his
action against all the parties thereto; and he shall not, by entering a nolleprosequi, prevent the defendants against whom the
recovery has been had, from calling upon the other defendants
for a rateable contribution.'"
So far as this reason goes, it is inapplicable to the present
case; for, the defendants are entitled not -only to 4 rateable, but
a full, contribution -over, for the entire sum, against the party
in whose favour the rwlleprosequi has been entered-' and consequently, the nolle prosequi does not touch their rights. It is
observable also, that the language is qualified by the words
i wh join in theirpleas;" which are printed in italics, and may
therefore fairly be presumed to have been-inserted by the learned editor, ex. industria, with a view to point out an implied distinction between cases, where there is a severance, and where
there is' joinder in the pleas. If there be anysuch distinction, it
is favourxble to the present case; for,'the plaintiffs severed in
their pleas from their principal. The learned ,ditor proceeds to
state, that, "if in such actions the defendants sever iu theirpleas,
as where one pleads some plea which goes to his -personal discharge, such as bankruptcy, n unques executor, and the like, ot
to the action of the writ, the plaintiff may enter a notle.prosequi,
ai to him,'and proTeed' against the others; for, with respect to
the bankrifptcy.., the statute of. 10th Alan, chap. 5, makes the

76

SUPREME COURT.

('Xinor et a]. v. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
other defendant, who is not a bankrupt, liable for the wu'wle
debt; and therefore, in that particular instance the case is exactly the same, as where an action is joint and several. So the
plea of ne unques executor, does not deny the cause of action; but
only, that be is one of the representatives of the testatoh'
When the. defendants sever in their pleas, with this limitation
as to the extent of the pleas in action upon contracts, it is imniaterial, what is the form of the action; for, the plaintiff may
entel" a nolleprosequi against any of them, before verdict, and
proceed against the rest."
The learned editor is fully borne out,.in the gendral position
here stated, by the case of Noke et al. vs. Ingraham, (Wilson
R. 89,) to which he refers. The only question is, whether there
is any such qualification upon it, as that the plea should be 'one
going exclusively in personal'discharge, and not to the merits?
That is the point of real difficulty. The case in I Wilson R. 89,
vas upon several promises made by the defendants, as partners. .One of them pleaded a former judgment; and issue being
taken upon the replication of nul teil record, judgment was
given against him, and a writ' of inquiry of damages awarded,
and final judgment. The other defendant pleaded his bankruptcy, and upon this, issue w6s joined; and afterwards the
plaintiff entered a nolle prosequi,as to him. Upon error brought,
the principal objection was, that the nolle prosequ, upon a joint
contract of two, was a discharge of both. Mr..Chief Justice
Lee said, "it is agreed, on all hands, that in trespass against
several, the plaintiff may enter a nolle prosequi, as to one, and
that will not discharge the other; and therefore, I cannot see,
why it may not be done in this case; and I do not see, how so
proper an.advantage can be taken upon the statute of Ann, as
to the bankrupt, as is uow taken by the entry. of this nolleprosequi." Wright, Justice, was of the same opinion, 6ind so was
Dennison, Justice; and the latter added, that "the plea of the
bankrupi is not a plea to the action, but only a personal discharge; but that if one defendant was to plead a plea that*was
to go to the action of the writ, he thought it might then have
a, different consideration, but that this, is not the case here.
This case is exactly the same,-as whzen an action isjont "and
several; for,-the statute 10th Ann, ch. 15, has made the partner
not a bankrupt, liable for the whole debt. This case is, the
very same, as to this matter of entering a nolleprosequi, as-if
it had been trespass against several defendants."
It is apparent, from this sumniary of the reasoning of the
Court, that the case' tunied -upon the consideration, that the,
contract, by the operationi of the statute of Ann;. was several
as well as joint; and all the Court concurred, that,.under such
circumstances, the nolleyrosequi would be godd, being govern-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

77

vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexatdria.)
(Minor et a].
ed, in the analogy, to trespass, where the cause of action was
several as well.as joint. What was stated by Dennison, Justice,
was not the exclusive ground of his particular opinion, but
only a suggestion, that the case might be, (not would be,) different upon a plea to the merits. Now, the general reasoning
cones very close to the case at bar; for here the bond is several, as well asjoiht, and an action might h.ve been maintained
severally against the defendants; and what is not immaterial
to be considered, all the partieswere retained, who had joined
in their pleas, and between whon- there existed a right of mutual contribution. Even in the case of bankruptcy, the practice is, in England, to require all the joint contractors to be
sued, as is proved by the case of Bevil vs. Wood, (9 Mlazul Selw. 23,) which makes it really less strong than a joint and
severbl contract.
The cise of Moravia, and another, vs. Hunter & Glass, (2
Maul 4- Sew. 444,) which has been relied on, -at the bar, was
msviwpsit against four defendants, two of whom were not served; D., one of the other defendants, pleaded-i. Non assump.
"sit. 9. A special plea of bankruptcy. S. A general plea of
bankruptcy, as to whom the plaintiff entered a nolleprosequi.
The other defendant pleaded non assumrnpsit, and a verdict was
found against him. The form of the nolleprosequi was, that
the plaintiffs, inasmuch as they "cannot deny, the several matters abovepleadid, by the said D., freely here in Court confess,
that they will not further prosecute their suit against him." It
was moved, in arrest of judgment, that the nolle prosequi, so entered, had confessed the non assumpsit, as well as the other
pleas; and theefore, the other defendant was also discharged,
and the distinction of Dennison, Jus., in'Noke vs. Ingraham
(1 Mils. R. 89,) was, relied on. But the Court held, that the
nolle prosequd was, in effect, only a confession; that as far as regards D., he had a defence in 'the matters pleaded by him.
This case does not, in terms, overrule the distinction, but it
does establish, that the Court upheld the nollepfosequi, notwithstanding the pleadings did set up a. plea to the merits, and
not merely a personal discharge. The contract does not appear to have been joint and several; and to have arrived at its
conclusion, the Court must have considered, that the confession
of the plaintiffs, *that they could not deny the several matters
above pleaded, ought not to be deemed an admission of the
truth of the pleas, except so far as to waive further proceedings in the suit, against the party who sets them up as a defence.
This conforms to the, definition given in the book, of a nolle
prosequi. "It is," as Serjeant Williams states, (1 Saund.1.
207, note 2,) "a partial forbearance by the plaintiff to proceed

78

SUPREME COURT.

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
any further, as to some of the defendants, or to part of the
suit, but still he is at liberty to go on as to the rest."
These are the only cases in England, which the researches
of counsel have-brought to our notice, bearing directly on the
point before the Court; and uponlooking into the elementary
treatises and books of practice, we have not been able to find
any more general doctrine. Indeed, the latter confine themselves exclusively to the enunciation of the principles above
stated, with the qualifications annexed to them in these ailthorities, as, see 1 Chitly's Plead., 32, 33. 546., Com. Dig. Pleader,
X 2. 3. 5. 2 Tidd's Practice,630. 2 .qrch. Practice, 219, 220. 2
Lilly's Practical Register, 280. In America, the ckses have
gone a step further, In Hartness vs. Thompson, (5 John..R.
160,) where-an action was brought against three, upon a joint
and several proriiissory note, and there was a joint plea of
non. assumpsi(, and the.infancy of thd defendants, that was
set up at the trial; it was held no ground for a "nonsuit;
but the plaintiff upon a verdict found in his favour against the
other two defendants, might enter a nolle prosequi, as to the infant, and take judgment upon the verdict against the others.
In Woodward vs. Marshall, (1 Pickering's Repdrts, 500,) in
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, upon a joint contract
and suit against twvo&persons, one of whom pleaded infancy,
itwas held that a nolle prosequi might be entered, as to the infant, and the suit prosecuted against rthe ofher defendant.
These decisions were admitted to be against the cases of
Chandler vs. Parker, (3 Bsp. Rep. 76,) and Jaffray vs. Frebain,
practice gave
adopted
thought
47,)was
butmost
the Court
(5
.ep.
it a
therefore
andthe
convenient,
b) themselves
judicial sanction. These cases were distinguishable from that
in 1 Wilons .1. 89, in the fact, that the"plea went, not only in
personal discharge, but proceeded'upon a inattrwhich estaban original defect in the joint contract; whereas the
lished
plea of baiikruptecy was for matter arising afterwards. The
Court
Indeed,.the
be sound.
not thought
wasconsidered
distinction
of
as a matter
rather
the toquestion
seem to ave
ce and policy, than as
practice, to be decided upon coi veen
matter of principle.
Hitherto the 'question has been discussed, as'if the nolle prosequi h d bee entered efore, when in fact it was' entered fer
jugme 4 against the defendants. The next inquiry is, whethr this" cregates ahy substantial difference in the case. In
Lever vs. Salkeld, (2,&dk.'455,) in trespass against two defendthe
plainan infant,
being
thfi plaimitiff,-one
and verdict for
ants,took'judgment
kfprosI
a non
entered
the other, and
against
-tiff
ent against the infants, and took out execution
ter the judga
upon the jxdfment; upon error brought, it was objected that

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

79

(Minor'et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
a non pros. could not be entered after judgment, for the judgment could not vary from the demand of the writ.- It was argued on the other side, that torts were several, and that a non
yros might be entered after, as well as before jitdgment, and
cases to this effect were cited. Lord Holt is reported to have
said, that he supposed there were interlocutory judgments,
wherein it might well be; but a final judgment differed, for that
being once wrong, a subsequent entry would not set it right.
The case was however adjourned, and nothing more appears
of it. This case is not very accurately reported, and it may
have been that the judgment was joint, and the nolle prosequi
afterwards, which would remove the objection to its authorityThe circumstance of its being adjourned, shows that the doctrine thrown out by Lord Holt, was not deliberately considered
by him, and was deemed not clear. In truth, it is directly
against the case of Parker vs. Lawrence, decided in the Exchequer chamber, and reported in Hobart's Rep. 70. That was
trespass against three; one pleaded not guilty, and the other
two a justification, to which the plaintiff replied, and there was
a demurrer to the 'replication. Pending the demurrer, the
issue was tried, and damages and judgment given against him.
After judgment, the plaintiff entered a nolleprosequiagainst the
other two, and a writ of error was afterwards brought by all
three; and it was alleged for error, that the nolle prosequi discharged all three. It was agreed by the Court, (in conformity
with the doctrine then prevailing,) that if the nolle prosequi
had been before judgment, it would have discharged the whole
action; and, so it woild, if the judgment had been against them
all, 'and then the plaintiff had entered a nolle prosequ against
the other two for anonsuit, or release, or other discharge of
one, discharges the rest. But here the action was at an. end,
as to the one, by the judgment against him, and no judgment
was had against the others, so 'that they Were divided from
him, and are not subject to the damages found vgainst him.
It was adjudged that he 'was not discharged, and there was, no
error. This case is of great authority, having been deliberately decided by a very high Court. It is cited as authorityby
Chief Baron Comn)ms, in his digest, (Pleader,X 5,) who also
cites (Pleader, X. 5,) the case in Salkeld, as one in ivhich there
was a final judgment against all the defendants. The reason of
the thing would seem entirely in favour of the judgment in Ho.
bart, and it stands supported by a much earlier -case, in the
year Books, (14 Edw. 4; Brooks abridg. Trespasspl.381.) If the
plaintiff may, in any case;recovdr a judgment, against one on
a joint action against two, who sever in their pleadings, it is
wholly immaterial to the regularity and effect of that judgwment, in what stage of the cause the suit has ceased to be pro-

SUPREME COURT.
(Minor et al. v. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
secuted against the other. It is sufficient, that in the event the
judgment is consistent with the general principles.of the action.
If a nolle pro~equi may be entered.' after verdict, and before
judgment, without discharging the other party, there is no
good reason why it may not be done after judgment, when
-there has been no proceeding which binds the plaintiff to consummate a judgment against the party whom he wishes to
dismiss. In each case the judgment upon the whole record is
consistentwith the writ.
The result of this examination into authorities, is, that there
is no decision exactly in poiit, to the present case; that there
is no distincion between entry of a nolle proscqui before, and
the entry after judgment, applicable to the present facts. That
the authorities, and particularly the American, proceed upon
the ground that the question is matter of practice, to be decided. upon considerations of policy and convenience, rather
than matter of absolute principle; and that therefore this
Court is left at full liberty to entertain such a decision as its
own notions of general convenience, and legal analogies would
lead it to adopt. We nre of opinion, that where the defend4-nts sever in their pleadings, a nolle prosequi ought to be
allowed. It-is a practice which violates no rules of pleading,
and will generally subserve the public convenience. In the
admjnistration of justice, matter of form, not absolutely subjected to authority, may well yield to the substantial purposes
of jtistice.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN, dissenting.

The facts appearing upon the records, from the count, pleas,
and replications, are these. This action was on a bond given
for the. faithful discharge of the office of- the Cashier, by Philip H. Minor. It was joint and several. The ddfendants craved
over jointly, and pleaded perfoiemance, to which plaiptiff replied.
They aftei'wards had leave to withdraw the joint pleas; and
the four securities jointly filed various pleas, to which'plaintiff
replied; inti issue being taken, proceeded to trial, and obtained this verdict.
After the verdict,, the principal to the bond Was ruled to
plead, and lie then files a variety of pleas, similar in effect,
to those pleaded by the securities. The Court then gave judgment upon the verdict, and the plaintiff's attorney enters this
Wlle.prosequi; and judgment is given for the principal, on the
'bond. That the plaintiffs take 'nothing by their bill, but for
their false clamour, be in mercy, and that the defendant go
thereof, without day, and receive his-costs.
It was insisted by the' defendants, that, in this state of the
pleadings and record, the plaintiffs ought not to have had

JANUARY TER'I, 1828.

al

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Blank of Alexandrin.)
judgment below-that there is error, and the judgment should
be reversed. What further order this Court would be bound
to render upon a reversal, it is not material to inquire. I
readily assent to the doctrine, that, in adjudicating upon
questions of practice, a Court should have regard to public
convenience; but it would be extending this principle to the
violation of its own spirit and intent, if carried to the extent of
overturning known established rules, both of law and practice.
To this extent, it appears to me, the present decision goes;
and that this judgment cannot be affiimed, without shaking
as well established principles, as adjudged cases; and opening a door to inconveniences, vhich must soon compel this
Court to retrace its steps.
The juffgment, as it stands below, is against four out of five
joint and several co-obligors; and the obligor omitted, or rather who has judgment in his favour, is the Cashier, for whose
good conduct in office, the other three became bound. Now,
this judgment is either a bar to a future suit against the principal, or it is not. If a bar, then the record exhibits the inconsistent case of four being made liable for one, who was not liable
himself. And if it is not a bar, then, by possibility, it may be
established by the verdict of a future jury, that the co-obligor,
for whose misfeasance, alone, these defendants have had judgment against them, had, in fact, committed no misfeasance. A
rule of practice, ,that may lead to such consequences, cannot
rest upon public convenience.
Nor is it more easy to reconcile it to princinle. No authority need be cited, to establish, that wherever , .lgment ought
to have been arrested below, this Court is bound to reverse for
error. Now this judgment is against ond of the canons of the
law of contracts. It was at the option of the plaintiff, whether to treat the bond as a joint or several contract. He has
elected to treat it as joint; and must, therefore, abide by the
law of joint contracts, as to both right and remedy; and, upon these; when under seal, it is an invariable rule, that all
must be sued, if all have sealed the instrument, and are in
life.
It is true, that, in general, the non-joinder of co-obligors must
be pleaded in abatement; but it would be oppressive and inconsistent to apply this rule to a case, in which it was impossible to
plead in abatement, and that was precisely this case; since the
discharge of the principal from the action, was produced by the
act of the plaintiff, after judgnent, at a time when it was impossible, by any form of pleadings, for the defendants to avail
themselves of this right. But this case comes within an exception to the general rule on the subject-of pleas in abatement; since, by the plaintiff's own showing, in his declaration
VoL. I.
1.

SUPREME COURT.
(.1iincr et al. 'vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)

and replication, all the co-obligors named in the iustrument, scal.cd it, and were in 'life at the commencement and close of the
su~t.
This distinction, if it be necessary to cite authority for if.,
clearly appear& from compairing the case of Rice vs. Shultz,
5 Bur. Reports, 2611, with the case of Hermer and Moore, noticed in the report of that case. In the one, it was necessary
to plead in abatement, because the facts did not appear on
record, which were necessary to, maintain the defence. In
the otheri the judgment was arrested, because the facts of th&
plaintiff's own showing, made out that heought not to have judgment, which were, all had sealed the instrumient-and all were
alive. It carnot be questioned, that in a joint contract by five.
where all remain equally bound-all in life, and all within
reach of the process; more especially. where they have been
all actually arrested, the plaintiff must recover against all, or
none. This is that case; and yet the plaintiff is allowed here
to tike judgment against four, and discharge the fifth, the
principal, by nolle-prosequi, after-judgment.
It cannot be doubted, that had this nolle prosequi been entered before trial, the defendants must have been permitted to
plead it, puis darien continuance, and that the plea must have
been sustained. And what reason is there, for placing them
in a: worse situation, by suffering the nolleprgsequi to be entered after judgment? It is said they severed in pleading, and suffered the cause to go to trial, without objection. But was it in
the power of these defendants, to compel their co-pbligors to
join them in pleading? or if the plaintiff choose to proceed
erroneously to trial, were 'the defendants under any obligation
to arrest him, and set him right? It Atas his own folly, if 1e
ruled them to trial, or conseirted to go -o trial, or committed any other error, in proceeding to judgment. I have stated
it So be not indispensable, in my view of the subject, that the
iwlleprosequi should be a bar in this case to a new suit against
the principal. The derangement of the rights and liabilities
of the, pafties,. produced by it, appears a sufficient objection
both to the principle and practice. For, certainly, it goes to
enable a plaintiff (o recover, by' this device, against parties,
who otherwise could have defeated his action by suitably
pleading.' By a novel practice, as it relates to joint contracts,
he is here permitted, to cvade an important legal principle.
But, if this nolle pro8equi can be shown to be a bar to his ac.tion against the principal co-obligor, it would seem to be incotestible, that this judgment ought to be reversed. And I am
yet to learn, that, in a joint action in contract against several.
a ndUlle prosequi as to the whole kctiou, against one. is not a bar
as -to irn.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

83

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
-re very few in the Books, in which the effects of
cases
The
a nolle poscqui, in such a case, has been tried by the only sutfficient test-a plea in bar, to a suit upon the same contract.
But as far as they have gone, they maintain the bar.
If a bar, in cases in which the suit is against a single defelndant, there can be no reason assigned why it should not be
a bar as azainst one of the several defendants. And to this
point, Beectier's case, reported in8 Coke,58. CrokeJanes, 21,
is direct and positive.
That was a suit upon a bond, and the judgment there is
nearly in the words of the judgment in this case.' On a second
action, upon the same-contract, this was held to Le a ,bar; and
it became necessary to remove the judgments, by a'writ of error, for some technical informalities, before this obligee could
recover in the orign.-d contract.
It is true, that Serjeant Williams has said, in his note to I
Sunders,(1207 a.) " that a nolle prosequi is n6w held to he no
bar to a ftiture action, for the same cause, except in those cases
where, from the niature of the actionj judgment and execution
against one, is a satisfaction of all the damages suistained by
the plaintiff."
And by reference to the next page of his notey it appears,
that the exception here introduced, is intended to embrace ac-.
tions for torts3 and therefore his rule is intended to apply to
actions on contracts.
But the authorities he cites, are far from bearing him out in
his doctrine. The case of Cooper vs. Tiffin,(3 T. R., 511,)upon
which lie relies, decides nothing but a question of costs; and
the position, that a nolleprosequiis no more than a discontimtanc'e, and the party may sue again, is o11, an obiter dictum, in
case where the point was not presented.,
So, also, of hin other case, in 1 Til. 89. The fActs did not
raise the question on the effect of the nolle prosequi, as to the
defendant who was discharged by it; and the'Judges, in considering whether the plaintiff could have judgment against
some of the joint contractors, where the ofher was discharged
by banlkruptcy, expressly decidie upon the ground, that he beifig
discharged by law, leaving the other bound for the debt, produced an analogy between that case and the case of a suit in
trespass, where oneonly mightbe sued sep arately. Butitis said,
and so 'Serjeant Williams asserts, " that the true nature and
extent of a ?wlleprosequl, .incivilcases, was not accurately dei,
-fined and ascertained, until modern times."
My own opinion is, .from all the investigation I 'have been
able to make, that itwas much better understood, in formpt
times, than it is at this day. That if it were now better underiood, we should perceive fewer of' those inconsistencies which

SUPREME COURT.
(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
are supposed to exist in the decisions on thig subject. Thus
Serjeant Williams-has mixed up the cases on torts, with those
on contracts, in' such a manner as could only produce confusion. To sustain the doctrine that-a nolleprosequi, in an action
of deb't, is a bar to another suit on the same bond, he quotes
Green vs. Charnock, (Croke .Eliz., 762,) which was trespass
guare dausamfregit. And for other cases which he says establishes the principle " that a nolie prosequi is not of the nature of a retraxit, or a release; but an agreement only, not to
proceed as to some of the defendants, on a part of the suit."
Without restricting the doctrine to any class of cases, he cites
,a string of.authorities, in every one of which the decisions
were in actions of trespass, or tort.
Yet it cannot be contended that the use of the nolle prosequi
in eases of tort, in which the defendants may be joined and disjoined at the pleasure of the plaintiff, can afford precedent or
authority forthe use of it, in tases of joint contract; in which
the law, regarding the nature of the contract, and the rights
of the parties, imposes on the plaintiff the obligation to sue
them jointly.
To me it appears that there is abunc ant authorityto prove that
the nolleprosequi,though entered by attorney, with the judgment
that defendant "eat sine die," has the effect of a retraxit. Lord
Coke certainly places the
e samefoot, both in his Institutes, (1 Inst. 139, and his comment upon Beecher's case (8
7ep.,) and in both instances he describes
the nollecases,
prosequa
one
butasboth
to different
of two kinds of retraxit, appropriate
producing a bar. And yet in one only is the term retraxit introduced into the'entry of judgment. (See also 2 Rolls ..'bridg. noleprosequi.
In Green) vs. Charnok, (Cro. liz. 762,) they are certainly
and equivalent. That was trespass, qu
eynonymous
treated as
re causam/regit, against C. on S S. made default and judgmeat of ml dicit was then taken against him. C. pleaded in
bar, plaintiff replied, &c. and judgment in demurrers for plaintiff. A nolle prose ui was then entered against S. and writ of
inquiry and judgment against C. And the case pioceeds ;
thereupon.they brought error, and the error assigned, was because this. nolle pros.etu is against one, when judgment is tamen against both; being that a retraxit against one is as strong
as a refease against the one, the which being to one defendant,
is a good discharge to both." So again, in the case of Dennis vs. Payne, Cro., ch. 551, P. & P. gave their joint and
several bond to D. who sued the one severally, and after plea,
entered a retraxit. He afterwards brought suit upon the bond,
against the other, P. who plead the retraxitto the first in bar.
There was no question made upon its being a bar, either direct

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

85

(Minor et al. vs. The Alechanics Bank of Alexandria.)
ur by estoppal; as to the obligor first sued, it is, in terms, admitted. But the benefit of that discharge was claimed by the
second P. and on this the judges divided, one maintaining
that its effect was that of a release, and the other, that of an
estoppal, only to be taken advantage of by him, in whosp favour it was entered; and Croke, who held it to be an estoppal,
identifies it with a nolleprosequi, by observing that it is "q4uasi an agreement that he will no further prosecute; "non vult,"
u/terius prosequi." So that both admit it to be a bar against the.
one discharged. So in Hobart,70, and in S Kebble, 332, p. S1, in
the year 1674; nolle prosequi and retraxit are cofisidered as syitonymous. So in iSilley's PracticalRegister, in 1719,andlleproseeui is defined thus: "this is, that the plaintiff will proceed no
further in his action, and may be as well before as after verdict;
and is stronger against the plaintiff than a nonsuit, for a nonsuit
is a default for non-appearance, but this is k voluntary acknowledgment that he ludh no cause of action." (7itle Nolle Pros.)
So Serjeant Salkeld, who comes down to the time of Queen
Ann, refers to Beecher's case for the law of retraxit,and gives the
definition of retraxitin the words of the entry of a nolle prosequi,
(Title Retraiaif, 3 Salk.) So in 4 W1od, 87, in.the year 1691,it is
distinctly asserted, that an entry "of a vcnit hie in curia,etfatitur
hie ;2 euria, with a judgment that defendant eat unde sine die" is
equivalent to a retraxit. At what period a differesit idea begun
to prevail, I have not been able to discover; certainly I can
find no adjudged case to support it.
In the case of Walsh vs. Bishop, in Cro. Char. 239. 243, reierred to by Serjeant Williams, as introducing a different doctrine, is directly against him. That was an action.of trespass
and battery against two; they severed in pleading, and after
verdict against both, a nolle prosequi was entered against one,
und the other moved it in arrest of judgment. In that case,
it is admitted, in terms, by the Court, that as to the one, the
nol'prosequi was an absolute bar. And byreference to the
same case, in page 239, it will be seen, that the argument rested upon the right of a plaintiff to proceed against one of several defendants in trespass.
If this plaintiff ever had a right to proceed against these
four defendants, in originating this suit, I should have filt no
doubt. That is the case in trespass, that is the case where
one defendant is bankrupt, or an infant, or pleads ne ?tnques
ixecutor. 1 ITll. 89. 3 J.spin.1?. 76. There i a modern book
of practice of great respectability, (I moan Sellon, title, N olle
Prosequi,) in which this doctrine is summed up to my entire
satisfactiom. The form of the intry is there given in words,
and conforms entirely to the entry in this ease, ex5.ept that the
words are here added, that "1the plaintiffs take nothing by their

.86

SUPREME COURT.

(Minor et ,. w. The Mechanics Bank of.Alexandria.)
bill, but for their 'false clamours be in mercy;'" which can
at least detract nothing from the effects of the judgment. Yet
it is there laid down, as the law of his day, that such a judgment, when it goes to the whole cause of action, operates in
effect, as a retraxit. The judgment in this case goes to the whole
cause of action, and as between the plaintiff and the Cashier,
is of the same effect, as if there had been no other defendant
to the action. In a subsequent part of'the article, the same
author, (Sellon,) recogifises the distinction between cases of
trespass, or tort, and cases of-contract; and lays down the
rights of the parties in each, in accordance with the views I
entertain on the subject, to wit: that if the nolle prosequi be
entered, so as to 'produce any derangement in the rights of
the defendant, to deprive them of a legal defence, or subject
them to increased difficulties or liabilities, it is error.
* The case in 1aul 4- SeluWn, which was supposed to have
overraled the previous decisions, is in perfect accordance with
them; for, although the defendant had pleaded non assmnpsit,he
hail also pleaded his discharge as a bankrupt. On the contrairy, if the language of the Court in that case 'be considered
as affording the true rationale of the entry of the nolleprosequi,
it wofild be fatal to the plaintiffs in this cause. The Court'say,
it amounts to an acknowledgment that the one defendant had
a defence. But what defence did this co-obligor set up. that
the other defehdants ought to have the benefit of? His'pleas,
were, in terms, those which had been pleaded by these co-obligors. If this confession of plaintiffs went to those pleas," then
were these defendants discharged, since they could not be liable
if he was not guilty.
It is a question of no importance-one of no influence upon
the law of the case, whether a nwlle pro8eqyd -may be entered
before, or after judgment, or when it may be entered; otherwise than as 'it affects the legal relations of the parties, and
the rules which govern suits at law.
And here, I think, I may very confidently maintain, that in
no case can a nolle prosequi be legally entered, as to one of
the defendants. unless the suit might originally have been maintained against those who remain; or, unless the remaining defendants might ha e availed 'themselves of pleading the nonij6inder of their co-obligoi', if their'rights were affected by his
exclusion from the action.
In the first class are comprised all actions of tort, in which
no prejudice is done to the defendants, since their co-defbicdant need not originally have been made'a party. And I may
add also, the case of bankrupts and infants, both of whom,
when joifit contractors, may be admitted as defendants, upon dedaring against their co-obligors, according to the truth o" the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

87

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechanics Bank of Alexandrih.)
case. They may, also, without prejudice to their co-defendants,
bc discharged by nolleprosequi; but even as to them, it seems
tdi precedents imposed a restriction; for, it is nbt permitted,
if they have blended their fate with that of their co-defendants,
by joining in their pleas. They have then waived their privilege.
If their pleas impart no waiver of their privilege, the right of
the plaintiff to his nolleprosequi, as to them, is conceded; because the relations of the parties are not altered, nor their
rights in any way prejudiced, But I conceive the nolle prosequi cannot be entered at any point of time, when it would place
the defendants in a worse situation, or deprive them of any adv antage of making their defence.
Surely the precedents for entering the nolleprosequiafter judgment in actions of trespass, against some' defendants, and going on to levy satisfaction from the rest, can afford no precedent here; since it is, in the one case, what the law enjoins; in
the other, what it forbidt,
Nor are the precedents of cases in which the one defendant
never was bound, or is discharged by operation of law, wvithout discharging the other, any better authority. Ih all these
cases, the relative rights and liabilities of the parties remain
the same. No legal absurdities can ensue, and no more is giv.
en against them, by the judgmefit, than what could have been
legally claimed of them by the action.
There is one curious result produced by this decision, which
is not among the least of the objections to rendering a judgment for the defendant in error: It cannot be contested, and
the whole argument is admitted, that if the discharge of
the principal produce a bar in his favour. this judgment
should be reversed for ,error. But the conclusion, that it is no
liar, is now to be deduced from a string of decisions, in everx
oiie of which, Serjeant Williams himself admits, that no recovery could be had against the! defendant who has been discharged by the nolleprosequi. It is true, he attributes this bar
to the nature of the action; but this is at least acknowledein.
fhat the material question, in the trespass cases, never could
arise in the presentcase. In the only case, hoeever, even ii,
trespass, in which the question in this case came distinctly beTore the Court, I mean the case of Green vs. Charnock, (1 Croke.
Z62;) in which there was an interlocutory judgment against S.,
and judgment pronounced against C., and aMnolfeprosequias to S.;
it was adjudged, that the nolle prosequi as to S. was a release
to him, and therefore to C.; and the judgment against C. was
reversed
brought, and yet there they did not join in
pleading. inIf, error
in the present case, the
defendaStS had all pleaded, whether jointly or severally, and
verdit had been for the
one derendant. onany plea to the merits: it is clear, that, not

88

1SUPREME COURT.

(Minor et al. vs. The Mechaics Bank of Alexandria.)
withstanding a verdict had passed for the plaintiff against the
remaining four, he could not have had judgment, (1 aund.
2-17.) And the distinction between the actions of debt and trespass on this point, has been, until now, considered as known and
established, (1 Plow. 66. 6. 8lRc. 120. 1S3. 2 Lilly.b. 210. 107.)
Upon the whole, I am very clear, that this judgment ought to
he reversed, and judgment below entered for defindants.

.Tudgment affirmed, wit/h cots.

