JANUARY TERM, 1828.

MVONTGOMERY BELL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JAMES MORRISON,
ANTHONY BUTLER, AND JONATHAN TAYLOR, DEFENDANTS IN

ERROR.
The authority given by the Act of Congress of 24th September 1789, chap.
20, to take depositions of witnesses, in the absence of the opposite party,
is in derogation of the rules of the common law, and has always been construed strictly: and, therefore, it is necessary to establish, that all the requisites ofthe law have been complied with, before such-testimony is admissible. 13551
The certificate of the magistrate taking the deposition, is good evidence of
the facts stated therein, so as to entitle the deposition to be read to the
jury; if all the necessary facts are there sufficiently disclosed. .3561 "
It should plainly appear, from the certificate ofthe magistrate, that all the requisites of the statute have been fully compliedwith; and no presumption
will be admitted to supply any defects in the taking the deposition. {3561
The statute of iimitations in Kentucky, is subtantially the same with the sta.
tute of 21 James 2, c. 16, with the exception, that it substitutes the term
of five years instead of six. The English decisions have, therefore, been
resorted to in this case, upon the construction of the statute of Kentucky,
and are entitled to great consideration. They Fannot be considered as conclusive upon the construction of a statute passed by a state, upon a like
subject; for this belongs to the local state tribunals, whose rules of interpretation, must be presumed to be founded upon a more justand accurate
view of their own jurisprudence. 1359}
If the doctrines of the Kentucky Courts, in the construction of a statute of
that state, are irreconcilable with the English decisions, upon a statute in
similar terms; this Court, in conformity with its general practice, will follow the local law, and administer the same justice which the state Court
would administer between the same parties. 1360}
The statute of limitations, instead of being viewed in an unfavourable light,
as an unjust and discreditable defence, should have received such support
from Courts of Justice, as would have made it, what it was intended, emphatically, to be, a statute of repose. It is a wise and beneficial law, not
designed merely to raise a presumption of*payment of g just debt, from
lapse of time; but to afford security against stale demands, after the true
state of the transaction may have'been forgotten, or be incapable of ex.
planation, by reason of the death oi removal of witnesses. {3601
An exposition of the statutd of limitations, which is consistent with its true
object and import, is that expressed by this Court, in the case of Wetzell
vs. Bussard, (11 Wheat. 309,) "an acknowledgment which will revive the
original cause of action, must-be unqualidfied and unconditional-it must
show, positively, that the debt is due, in whole or in part. If it be connected with circumstances which in any inanner affect the claim, or if it
be conditional, it may amount to a new assumpsit, for which the-old debt
is a sufficient consideration or if it be construed to revive the original
debt, that revival is conditional, and the performance of the condition, or
a readiness to perform it, must be shown." 1362}
If the bar of the statute is sought to be removed by the proof of a new promise, that'promise, as a new cause of action, ought to be proved in a clear
and explicit manner, and be in its terms, unequivocal and determinate;
and ifany conditions are annexed, they ought to be shown to be performed.

1362}

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell wff.Morrison et al.)
If there be no express promise, but a promise is to be raised by implication
of law, frot the acknowledgment of the party, such acknowledgment
ought to contain an unqualified and direct admission, of a present subsist.
iug debt, which tl~e party is liable and willingto pay. If there be accompanying circumstances,.which repel the presumption of a promise or intention to pay; if the expression be equivocal, vague, or indeterminate,
leading to no certain conclusion, but at best to probable inferencas, which
may affect different minds in different ways; they ought not to go to a
jury as evidence of a new promise, to revive the cause of action. '362}
The decisions of the Courts of Kentucky, giving a construtztion to the statute
of limitations of that state, are in accordance with the priniciples which
have been sanctioned by this Court. Those decisions evince a strong disposition'of the Courts of Kentucky to restrict, within very close limits, any
attempt to revive debts by implied promises resulting from acknowledg
ments or other confessions by parol. It is the duty of this Court, in a case
arising in Kentucky, to follow out the spirit of those decisions so far as the
Court is enabled to gathertlie principles on which they are founded. 13631
In the construction of local statutes, this Court has been in the habit of following the judgments 6f local tribunals. {363}
The admission of a party of the existence of an unliquidated account, on
which something is'due to the plaintiff, but no specific balance isadmitted,
and no document produced at the time, from which it can be ascertained
what the parties understood the balance to be, would nt, by the Co
of Kentucky, be held sufficient to take the caseut of othestatute, and let
in the plaintiff to proe atunde, any balance, however large it may be.. It
is indispensable fr toe party to prove, by independent evidence, the extent of the balance due to him, before there can arise any promise to pay
it as a subsisting debt. {365}
copartner,
after.
dissolution
of a debttobytake
one the
The
acknowledgment
of the
statute, of
as the
to the
is not suficient
case out
]partnership,
Apt dissolution of partnership t an end to the autho ty of one parnr to
bind the other; it operates as a revocation of all power to create new con.
the right of prtners
tracts,
37031 as such, can extend no ferther than to
othriytnand partner
settle the partnership concerns already existing, and distribute the remaining'unds; and this right may be restrained by the delegation of. this
authority to one partner. {370}
After a dissolution of a partnership, no partner can create a cause of action
against the other partners, except by a new authority communicated to
tim for that purpose. 37e}
When the statute of limitations has once run against a debt, the cause of acA373a
tion against the partnership is gone.

THIS was a writ of error to the seventh Circuit Gourt of the

United States for the district of Kentucky, sued out by t e
the consideratfr
plaintiff below; and the case was presented

tion of this Court, upon a bill of exceptions, taken by the plaintiff in error.

An action of assurnpsit was institu~ted against Charles Wilkins, Jonathan Taylor, Jlames Morrison, Anthony Butler, and

Isaac White, in 1823. The defendants, on the first of March

1810, by articles of agreement, under their respective hands
and seals, entered into a partnership, for the purpose of manufacturing and vending salt, at Saline, near the Wabash, in the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

353

(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)
then Illinois Territory, under the firm of Jonathan Taylor R
Co.; and the object of this suit is the recovery of about twenty
thousand dollars, claimed to be due on the sale and delivery of
castings, to that value or amount. The evidence of the sale
and delivery of the articles, and of their value, was complete;
and the questions which were presented to the Court, by the
record, were:-Ist. Upon the decision of the Circuit Court,
against the admission of a deposition, which had been intended
to be taken in conformity with the provisions of the Act of Congress of the 24th September 1789, ch. 20, and in reference to the
taking of which there was in all respects a compliance with the
directions of the Act, with the exception, that the deposition
was not certified to have been reduced to writing by the magistrate, or by the deponent in his presence; and,
2dly. On the exclusion of certain testimony, and the validit
of the plea of the statute of limitations, upon which plea the
decision of the Court hiving been in favour of the defendants,
a verdict and judgment was rendered for them.
All the facts considered as proved in the case, and also the
written and documentary testimony essential to a full understanding of the case are stated at length in the opinion of the
Court, delivered by Mr. Justice Story.
The case, for the plaintiff in error, was presented to the Court
by Mr. Rowan, and by Mr. Benton; and by Mr. Jones, for the
defendants.
For the plaintiff in error, it was stated:1st. The Court erred in excluding the evidence offered by
the plaintiff, to take the case out of the statute of limitations.
2d. In rejecting the deposition of John Mockbee.
1. The conversation, proved by the deposition of Patterson
Bainetook place in 1818-1819,and thewritwas issued in August
1820; and the language of Morrison, one of the defendants, is
sufficient to repel the plea of the statute. He expressed his
willingness "to settle with the'planti'f" but the books-and papers of the concern were in the hands of Taylor. He said "he
was anxious that the plaintiff's account should be settled." "I
know we are owing you.", "I am getting old, and I wish to
have the business settled." He proposed to give the plaintiff
.97,000, in satisfaction of the claim.
These acknowledgments are sufficient, 6n authority, to maintain this suit. The letters of Butler contain equivalent and similar expressions. The letter of Morrison has the same operation.
2 Camp. 11. 5 Binn. 573, 580, 589. 4 Johns. 468. 2 .R. 660.
Lloyd vs. Maund, 2 Taunt. 760, in which a new trial was granted, because the Judge at Nisi Piius had not left to the jury for
their construction, a letter which contained an admission that
something was due. All the cases go to establish the principle.
Yy
VoT.AI.

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell wu.Morrison et aL)

that where an acknowledgment is proved, the jury are the proper judges of its effect. The Court can only say, whether it is
relevant to the subject matter.
Where several are liable, the acknowledgment of one will
take the demand out of the statute, 6 John. 267. 2 Bay, 535.
2. B. 840. 9 Doug. 652. 3 Camp.82. 2 Camp. 11.
Every partnership is, quasi, a corporation, and every individual in the firm a csrporato, they having no power, by dissolution of the same, to affect the rights of creditors, and they continue a corporation until all their debts are paid. Every partner may maintain and give validity to the contract which was
entered into during the partnerships. He doe* not make a
new contract by a promise after the dissolution of the firm;
but only continues the old one. The whole act, when one acts.
There is no agency of one partner for another, but for the
whole, where one acts. Secondly. The deposition of John
Mockbee was taken according to all the essential requisites of
the Act of Congress, It is certified to have been taken in
the presence of ,the nagistrate, "and that it is in the deponent's hand writing;" and these circumstances show a 6onformity with the statute.
Mr. Jones, for the defendants in error.
The question in this case, is whether the statute of limitations shall be restored to its original meaning, or be reduced,
as it formerly was in England, to a nullity. The cases erroneously suppose that the statute proceeds on a presumption of
a debt. The rule should be, that the acknowledgment should
be such as, in itself, will support the claim, and thus render
any tvidence of the original debt unnecessary. The argument
that the statutd only prevents the' remedy, is incorrect; if there
is no remedy.there is no'debt.
The evidence does not show an acknowledgment of a debt,
but expressions of a-wish to buy peace; ahd if propositions
were made for a settlement, they having been rejected, the
transactions of the parties are still open. The original doctrine in England was, that there should be a new consideration as well as an acknowledgment, but the more recent cases
.require an acknowledgment and an express promise to pay, Clementson vs. Williams, 8 Cranch, 79 Wetzell vs. Buzzard, 11
Wheat. 309.
There are decisions upon this point in the state of Kentucky,
whose statute is now to be construed. Hardin'sRep , 02. Harrison vs. Hanley, I Bibb, 445. 2 Bibb, 285. S Bibb, 271.
2. Whether the acknowledgment of' a retired: partner will
bind the other partnerg?

The acts of a partney'ind the part-

nership during its continuance, because each partner is the
agent of the firm; Whitcomb and Whiting, 2 Doug. 625. After

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

855

(Bell a. Morrison et A.)

dissolution, payment to the out going partner is invalid. Mon'
tague on Parnerships, 127.. The acknowledgment of a partner to take a case out of the statute, is a new contract, and
therefore cannot operate; if made after dissolution, Montague,
on Part.12-5, 127. Watson on Part. 448. Jackson vs. Fairbanks,
2 H. Black. 340. 1 Barn. 4-.Ald. .463. Norris Peake's Evidence,
40-3. Wood vs. Braddick, I Taunton, 104.
Secondly. The deposition of John Mockbee was properly
rejected. Depositions taken under the Act of Congress are
ex parte, and the form established by law must be strictly complied with. The Act requires that the deposition shall be
zvritten by the Judge or Justice taking it, or written by the- wit;
ness in his pre.,ence. This cannot be inferred, and mu.t be stated in the certificate.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the Opinion oqf
the Court.
This cause comes before ut, upon a writ of error to'the Circuit Court of the District of Kentucky. The original action
was brought by the plaintiffs in error, against the defendants,
on the 16th of August 1820; to recover the value of certain
iron castings, sold and delivered to them by the plaintiff. The
defendants pleadednon assumpserunt,and non assumpserunt,with-

infive years; (the latter being the time prescribed by the Kentucky statute of limitations, in cases of this nature;) uppn
which pleas, the parties were at issue; and at the trial, a verdict was returned by the jury for the defendants; .upon which,
judgment passed in their favour. A bill of exceptions was taken to certain points, ruled by the Circuit Court at the trial;
and the validity of these exceptions, has constituted the ground
of the argument for the reversal, which has been insisted on
in this Court.
The first objectiofi urged, is the exclusion of the deposition
or a Mr.. Mockbee, which was offered by the plaintiff as test"i
mony in the cause. The reason assigned for the exclusion, is,
that there was no proof by the certificate of the magistrate, or
otherwise, that the deposition was reduced to writing, in the
presence of the magistrate. This is. a point altogether dependant upon the construction of the Act of Congress of the 4th of
September 1789, ch. 20; under the authority of which "thedeposition purports to be taken. The authority, to take testimony in this manner, being in derogation of the rules of the common law, has 'always been construed strictly; and, therefore, it
is necessary to establish, that all the requisites of the law
have been complied with, before such testimofty is admissible.
The Act of Congress provides, "1That every person deposing
as aforesaid, shall be carefully examined and cautioned, and
sworn or affiirmed. to testify the whole truth. and shall sub-

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell vw.Morrison at al.)
scribe the testimony by him or her given, after the same shall
be reduced to writing; which shall be done only by the magistrate, taking the doposition, or by the deponent in his presence.
And the deposition, so taken, shall be retained by such magistrate, until he deliver the same with his own hand into the
Court foi- which they are taken; or shall, together with a certificate of the reasons as aforesaid of their being taken, and of
the notice, if any was given to the adverse party, be by him the
said magistrate,. sealed up, and directed to such Court; and
remain under his seal, until opened in Court."
Without doubt,.the certificate of the magistrate is good evidence of the facts stated therein, so as to entitle the deposition
to be read to the jury; if all the necessary facts are there sufficiently disclosed. It is not' denied, that the reducing of the
deposition to writing, in the presence of the magistrate, is a
fact made material by the statute, and that proof of it, is a neeessary preliminary to the right of introducing it at the trial.
But it is supposed that sufficient may be gathered by intendment from the certificate of the magistrate, to justify the presumption that it was done. The certifica e is in these words:
"State of Tennessee, Dickson County, ss. At Charlotte, in
said County, on the fourth day of July 1822, before me, James
M. Ross, Justice of the peace, and one of the Judges of the
County Court of Dickson County; came, personally, John
Mockbee, being .about the age of fifty-one years, and after being carefully examined and cautioned, and sworn, to testify the
whole truth, did subscribe the foregoing and annexed deposition, after the same was reduced to writing, by him in his own
proper hand." The certificate then proceeds to state the reason for taking the deposition, &c. in the usual form. It is remarkable that the certificate follows throughout, with great exactness of terms, every requisition in the statute, with the exception as to the deposition being reduced to writing in the
presence of the magistrate; and it is scarcely presumable, that
this was accidentally omitted. At all events, every word in
the certificate may be perfectly true, and yet, the deposition
may-not have been reduced to writing in the ma~istrate's presence. If this be so, then 'there can arise no just presumption in favour of it. And we think, in a case of this nature;
where evidence is sought to be admitted, contrary to the rules
of the common law; something more than a mere presumption, should exist that it was rightly taken. There ought to
be direct. proof, that the requisitions of the statute have been
fully complied with. We are therefore of opinion that the deposition was properly rejected.
The more important question in the cause, is that relative
to the evidence introdiqced to repel the plea of the statute of

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

457

(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)

limitations. In the course of the trial, the plaintiff read to the
jury certain articles of copartnership, made between the defendants in March 1810; whereby the defendants entered into
a joint trade and partnership, in the manufacturing of salti at
a place known by the name of the United States' Saline, near
the Wabash River 'ithin the Illinois Territory, for the term
of three years, then next ensuing, under the style of Taylor,
Wilkins &_Co. He also gave evidence, that large quantities of
iron castings had been sold and delivered by him to the company, during the term of the copartnership. He then introduced
the testimony of one Patterson Baine, who stated, "that some
time in the year 1818, or 1819, the plaintiff, Bell, came to his
house, in Lexington, and stated, that he had again come up,
to endeavo'ur to get the amount of his account from the defendants'.. He requested the witness to go with the plaintiff to
Col. Morrison's, (one of the defendants,) on that business.. The
witness went. The plaintiff and Morrison had a good deal of
conversation, on the subject of the plaintiff's account against
the Saline Company for metal furnished, which is not recollected by the witness. The witness recollects, that Morrison
stated, that the books and papers relativeto the plaintiff's claim
were in the hands, of Jonathan Taylor, (one of the defendants,)
which put it out of his power to settle the account at that time,
and expressed a willingness, but for that reason, to'settle with the
plaintiff. The plaintiff- bade him good bye, and declared that
that was the last time he should ever apply for a settlement of
his accoulnt. The plaintiff then left the house of Morrison,
and returned with the witness to his house, where he remained
until after breakfast on the next day;-that shortly after breakfast, Morrison came to the house of: the witness, and said to Bel,
(the plaintiff,) that he was very anxiouS, that his, (the p intiff's) account, should be settled; adding, "I know we are wing you, and I am anxious it should be settled." He then mentioned to the plaintif that he, (Morrison,) was getting old,
wished
have
hanging
things nd
business
suchsettled,
to have
likethe
and did tonot
to haveover
donehim,
withand
it.
He
to give The
the plaintiff
thousand
and then
closeproposed
the business.
plaintiff seven
refused
to take dollars,
it, and
they parted ;-that no account, or papers of any kind, were
•shown or produced by Bell, at the time of these "conversations
with Morrison; but he understood the conversations to reate
to the

claim6wompan
for castings, furnished by him to the
of Taylor, Wilkins and others. The witness observed to the
plaintiff,
after
Morrison's
he should have taken
Morrison's
offer;
that "a departure,
half'Ibaf wathatbetter
than no

" ead."
The plaintiff also introduced certain letters written by Morrison d Butler, (two of the defendants,) o him. The first was

358

SUPREME COIORT.

(Bell w. Morrlion et a].)
a letter from Morrison, dated 2d of October 1814; and it con.
tains, among others, the following expressions:-"'I wish
whatever is due to you should be paid;--I have once more to
ask you to follow the advice I am about to offer, viz: to come
up'here,
Col.
Butler
soon ordered
oft;) ancf twithout
cannot delay,
helieve(as
your
present
suitmay
willbeanswer
any purpose,"
&c. bc.
It is not our wish to keep f
you,nom
whatever may b your just due. We have sent for the company
bookq, some two or three weeks since; they will come to Louisville by watel ; and on your and Mr. Wheatley's being there,
I have no doubt but your account can be adjusted; and that,
more to your satisfaction, than it ever can be from the result
of your suit," &c. "I wish your account settled; and, I have,
no hesitation in saying, on your coming here, it will be done."
The hext was a letter from Butler, dated 26th October 1817, in
which he informs the plaintiff, that, on the 20th of November,
Messrs. Morrison and Wilkins will be at Hopkinsville, "for
the purpose of adjusting some of the affairs of the.old Saline
Company," &c.; and desires that he "will be present, in order that a settlement may be effected, if possible, of the account which you, (he,) set up against- the company." The
next is from Butler,.4ated the 8th of November 1817, again
mentioning the'intended meeting on the 20th of November, U for
the purpose of adjusting our old account with you;" and he
adds, 4I hope, therefore, you Will be at HopkinsvilIe,, for
the purpoie of enabling us to settle this old affair, to which, I
am 5ure, all must be most anxious." The next is from Butler,
dated 23d. of October 1818, in which he alludes to a complaint
made by the plaintiff, of Butler's absence from home on the
,5th of the same month, when the plaintiff called there, and reminds the plaintiff of a conversation they had at ther Greenville Springs, -"about a day of meeting to adjust the account
between the former Salipe Company and yourself," and. excuses himself for his absence. He adds, " I have now, Sir,
attended at three places, upon three appointments made by yourself and myself, without being able to have a meeting, &c. If
it would 'suit you to be at Frankfort, during the sitting of the
legislature, we might possibly come to some understanding on
the subject." The next is a letter from Jonathan Taylor, (ohe
of the defendants,) to the plaintiff, dated ISh March 1818, in
which he says, '1 I received a letter last Monday from Col. Butler, inviting me to attend an appointment with you at Hopkinsr
ville, on the 26th of this month, for the purpose of adjusting
the old company account. I shall endeavour to attend at that
time, when, if we can make an arrangement, equally mutual for
the metal I may hereafter wan~it "can be done." Other letters

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

359

(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)
of Taylor were read in evidence, but they all bear date in the
years 1811, and 1812.
It was further proved, that the plaintiff was present in 1814,
when the Saline and imp~pvements were delivered over to
Bates, the succeeding lessee; and that the plaintiff was then
apprized, that the term of the defendants, as lessees, had terminated. After the evidence on the part.of the plaintiff was
closed, the defendants' counsel moved the Court to exclude the
testimony of Patterson Baine, and all the letters bearing date
within five years before the bringing of this suit, offered by the
plaintiff, to show- a promise on the part of the defendants, or
any one of them, or any member of said firm or partnership,
within five years next before the commencement of this suit;
and the Court so excluded from the jury the evidence of the
said Bane, and all the letters dated within five years aforesaid,
tending to prove a promise in five years, next before the commencement of this suit, by the defendants, or either of them,
or any member of* said firm or partnership, as prayed .bythe
defendants' counsel; and decided, -that "there was no sufficient
evidence or admissions by the defendants, or either of them,
or any member of said firm or partnership, to prove suich a
promise, in five years before the commencement of this suit,
as would take the case out of the statute of limitations, or
should be left to the jury, as conducihg to that effect." To
which opinion of the Court the plaintiff filed his bill of exceptions; and the correctness of this -opinion has constituted the
main ground of the elaborate argument at this bar,
Two points are necessarily involved in the discussion of this
opinion. The first is, whether the evidence so excluded, (supposing it to be, in all other respects, unobjectionable,) was competent, in point of law, to have been left to the jury to infer a
promise sufficient to take the case out of the statute of limitations. The second is, whether, supposing it would b6 competent, in ordinary cases, the fact that it was the acknowledgment
or promise of one partner, after the dissolution of the partnership, did not justify its exclusion, as incompetent evidence to
bind the other partners.
The statute of limitations of Kentucky, is substantially the
same with the statute of 21 of James, ch. 16, with the exception, that it substitutes the term of five years instead of six.
The English decisions have, therefore, been resorted to, upon
the present occasion, as illustrative of the true construction of
the statute, and, in this view, are doubtless entitled to great
consideration. They are not, however, and cannot be considered as conclusive authority, upon the construction of the statute passed by a state, upon the like subject; for this justly belongs to the local state tribunals, whose rules of interpreta

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell tv. Morrison et al.)
tion must be presumed'to be founded upon a more just and accurate view of their own jurisprudence, than those of any foreign tribunal, h6wever respectable. If, therefore upon examindtion it shall be found, that the doctrines of the Kentucky
Courts, upon this subject, are irreconcilable with those deduc-.
ed from the statute of James; this Court would, in conformity
with its general practice, follow the local law, and administer
the same justice which the state Court would administer between the same parties.
It has often been matter of regret, in modern times, that, in
the construction of the statute'of limitations, the decisions had
not proceeded upon principles better adapted to carry into effect the real objects of the statute; that, instead of being viewed, in an unfavourable light, as an unjust and discreditable defence, it had received such support, as would have made it,
what it was intended to be, emphatically, a statute of repose;
It is a wise and beneficial law, not designed merely to raise a
presumption of payment of a just debt, from lapse of time,
but to afford security against stale demands, after the true state
of, the transaction may have been forgotten, or be incapable of
explanation, by reason of the death on removal of witnesses.
It has a manifest tendency to produce siledy settlements of accounts, and to suppress those prejudices which may rise up at
a distance of time, and baffle every honest effort to counteract
or overcome them. Parol evidence may be offered, of confessions, (a species of evidence which, it has been often observed, it is hard to disprove, and easy to fabricate,) applicable
to such remote times, as may leave no means to trace the nature, extent, or origin of the claim, and thus open the way to
the most oppressive charges. If we proceed one step further,
and admit that loose and general expressions, from which a
probable or possible inference may be deduced. of the acknowledgment of a debt, by a Court or jury; that, as the language
of some cases has been, any acknowledgment, however slight,
or any statement not amounting to a denial of the debt; that
any admission of the existence of an unsettled account, without any specification of amount or balance, and however indeterminate and casual, are yet sufficient to take the case out of
the statute of limitations, and to let in evidence, .aiunde,to
establish any debt, however large, and at whatever distance of
time; it is easy to perceive, that the wholesome objects of the
statute, must be, in a great measure, defective; and the statute
virtually repealed.
The English decisions upon this subject, have gone great
lengths-greater: indeed, in our judgment, than any sound interpretation of the statute will warrant; and, in some instances, to an.extent which is irreconcilable with any just prbici-

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

861

(Bell vs. Morrison et l.)
ple. There appears, at present, a disposition on the part of
the English Courts to retrace their steps; and, as far as they
may, to bring back the doctrine to sober and rational limits.
The American Courts have evinced a like disposition. In the
recent case of Bangs vs. Hall, 2 Picker.Rep. 368, the principal
cases were reviewed by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts;
and it was held, that to take a case out of the statute* there
must be an unqualified acknowledgmem, not only of the debt
as originally due, but that it continues so; and if there has been
a conditional promise, that the condition has been performed
-a doctrine, quite as comprehensive, has been assertd in the
Supreme Court of New-York. The subject was much considered in the case of Sands vs. Gelston, 15 Johns. Rep. 511.
where Mr. Chief Justice Spencer, in delivering the opinion of
the Court, said, " that if at the time of the acknowledgment
'of the existence of the debt, such acknowledgment is qualified
in a way to repel the presumption of a promise to pay, it will
not be evidence of a promise sufficienf to revive the debt, and
take it out of the statute." In consonance with this principle,
the same Court has held, that "if the acknowledgment be accompanied with a declaration that the party intends to rely on
the statute as a defence, such an ackiiowledgment is wholly insufficient. "* In the case of Clementson vs. Williams, 8 Cranch,
72, this Court expressed the opinion that the decisions on this
subject had gone full as far as they ought to be carried, and
that the Court was not inclined to extend them; that the statute of limitations was entitled to the same respect with other
statutes, and ought not to be explained away. In that case, an
attempt was made to charge a paitnership, by an acknowledg Lment made after its dissolution, by one of the partners, when
an account was presented to him, that "the account was due,
and lie supposed it had been paid by the other partner, but he
had not paid it himself, and did not know of its being ever
paid." It was held, that this was not a sufficient acknowledgment to take the case out of the statute; The Chief Justice,
in delivering the opinion of the Court, said, "in this case there
is no promise, conditional or unconditional, but a simple acknowledgment. This acknQwledgment goes to the original
justice of the account. But this is'not enough. The statute
of limitations was not enacted to protect persons from claims
fictitious in their origin, but from ancient claims, whether well
or ill founded, which may have been discharged, but the evidence of discharge may be lost. It is not sufficient to take the
case out of the Act, that the claim should be proved, or be ac* See also Brown vs. Campbell, 1 S'erg. & ,Rawle, 176. Tries vs. Boisqlet, 9 &rg.& Ruwk, 128.
VOL. 1.
Z z

362

SUPREME COURT.

(Bell v8. Moreson et al.)
knowledged to have been originally just; the acknowledgmenz
must go to the fact, that it is still due."
In the case of Wetzell vs. Bussard, 11 Wheat. 309, the subject again came before this Court; and the English and American authorities were deliberately examined. The Court there
expressly held, that 11an acknowledgment which will revive
the original cause of action, must be unqualified and unconditional. It must show, positively, that the debt is due, in whole
or in part. If it be connected with circumstances, which in
any manner affect the claim, or if it be conditional, it may
amount to a new asaump8it, for which the old debt is a sufficient consideratibn; or, if it be construed to revive the original
debt,-.that revival is conditional, and the performance of the
condition, or a readiness to perform it, must be shown."
We adhere to the doctrine thus stated, and think it the only
exposition of the statute, which is consistent with its true object and import. If the bar is sought to be removed by the
proof of a new promise, that promise,. as a new cause of ac'tion, ought to be proved in a clear and explicit manner, and be
in its terms unequivocal and determinate; and, if any conditions are annexed, they ought to bff shown to be performed.
If there be no express promise, but a promise is to be raised
-by implication of law from the acknowledgment of the party,
such acknowledgment ought to contain an unqualified and direct admission of a previous, subsisting debt, which the party
is liable and willing to pay. If there be accompanying circumstances, which repel the presumption of a promise or intention to pay; if the expressiQns be equivocal, vague, and indeterminate, leading to no certain conclusion, but at best to
probable inferences, which may affect different minds in different ways; we think they ought not to go to a jftry as evidence
of a new promise to revive the cause of action. Any other
course would open all the mischiefs against which the statute
was intended to guard innocent persons, and expose them to
the dangers of being entrapped in careless conversations, and
betiayed by perjuries.
It may be that in this manner an honest debt may sometimes
be lost, but many unfounded recoveries will be prevented; and
viewing the statute in the same light, in which it was viewed
by English Judges at an early period, as a beneficial law, on
which the security of all men depends, we think its provisions
ought no'to be lightly overturned; and that no creditor has
a right to complain of a Strict construction, since it is only
by his own fault and laches, that it can be brought to bear injuriously upon him.- Al.d, if the early interpretation had been
adhered to, that nothing but an exprcss promise should take

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

863

(Bell vs. MIorrison et nl.)
a case out of the statute, it is far from being certain, that it
would not have generally been in promotion of justice.
But the present case is not left to be determined solely upon
general principles and authorities. There is a series of decisiotis of the Kentucky Courts, upon the construction of their
own statute of limitations,which, if they differed from those of
other Courts, would, as matter of local law, govern this Court
upon the present occasion. In the construction of local statutes we have been in the habit of respecting and following the
judgments of the local tribunals.
The first, and leading case, is Bell vs. Rowlands Adm-nistrators, in Hardin's Reports, SOl. In that case,*the defendant*
made an acknowledgment, "that he had once owed the plaintiff, but he supposed his brother had paid it, in Virginia, (the.
plade where the original transaction took place, in the year
1785;) and if his brother had not paid it, he owed it yet." The'
Court held that the acknowledgment was not sufficient to take
the case out of the statute; that the defendant was not bound
to prove that his broth, had not paid the debt; that the law
would imply a promise, only, where the party ought to promise; and that the defendant ought not to have promised, under the circumstances of that case, to pay a debt which he
supposed to be paid. But the general reasoniig of the Court,
which is drawn up with great clearness and force, goes much
further. The Court said, that the English decisions were not
obligatory upon, them, in the construction of their own statute,
although similar in its provisions to the English statute; and
that so far as .tbey had gone upon nice refinements, for the purIf
pose of, evading the statute, they must be disregarded.
the slightest acknowledgment; if strained, constructive acknowledgments and promises, are held sufficient; it must multiply litigation, produce endless uncertainty, and it is to be
feared, a fruitful crop of perjuries.
Slight circumstances, and a man's loose expressions, would be.
construed into a full acknowledgment of the debt, when he
himself neither intended to make, nor understood himself as
making any acknowledgment at all. Instances of this sort are
frequent ii the books; but the example is too dangerous to be
rountenanced. And the Court further declared, "upon the
whole, we are of opinion that the only safe rule that can be
adopted, capable of any reasonable certainty, is, that in order
to take the case out of the statute of limitations, an express acknowledgment of the debt, as a debt due at the time, coupled
with the original consideration; or an express promise to pay
it; must be proved to have been made, within the time pre..scribed by the statute,
There was another point in the case, deserving of notice.

S64

SUPREME COURT.

.(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)
which was,. whether the Court ought to have instructed the
jury as to the law of the case, and then have left it with them
to determine, whether an acknowledgment of' the debt, and a
promise to pay it, had been proved to have been made within
the five years; upon which it was held, that it was competent
for the Court, either to do so, or, (as it did in that case,) taking the whole of the evidence on the part of the plaintiff as
true, and the facts sworn to by the witnesses as sufficiently
proved, to instruct the jury as to the law arising upon those
facts.
This case has never been departed from in Kentucky, and
has been frequently recognised. In Harrison vs. Handley, (1
3ibb R. 443,) the plaintiff, to take the case out of the statute,
produced a witness, who swore, "that some time in May or
June 1796, he presented an account to W. H. (the defendant)
amounting to X250, or X260; that H. objected to certainarticles in the said account; and after the said articles were
stricken out of the account; H. then acknowledged, it was all
right. The Court below' ruled that this was such an acknowledgment as took the case out of the statute, but the decision
was reversed by the Court of Appeals. Mr. Chief Justice
Bibb, in delivering-the opinion of the Court, adverted to the
case of Bell vs. Rowlands administrators; and recogniscd its
authority in the fullest terms. And after expressing a doubt,
whe.thr an implied promise would not be barred by'the statute,
he proceeded to say, "1Be that as it may, mere loose expressions and vague acknowledgments will not suffice. The acknowledgment from which the law is to raise a promise, contrary to the provisions of the statute, must be clear and express, where the ii ind is brought.-drectlrto the point, debt or
no debt, at the present timef nat whether 'the debt was once
an existing debt. That the law will argumentatively make it
a debt, in .prwsen1i, if the party does not in his acknowledgment say it is not, or prove payment- is a proposition, that
cannot be granted in opposition to the pro-visions of the statute. Where the limitation has run, to get clear of it, the
whole burthen of proof is thrown on the plaintiff, to prove a
good.and subsistingdebt, and a promise to pay within the period
prescribed to his action. The acknowledgment of H. does
not come up to this requisition. There was no express promise to pay; there was no express acknowledgment of a th'en
subsisting debt; there was no assent to pay. "H. then acknowlpelged the amount was all right," is too loose, vague, and
indefinite an acknowledgment to revive a transaction, and put
it under investigation again, after the law had closed it. That
the amount was right, could be true, and might.well be acknowledged, if the articles had been truly noted notwithstand-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

365

(Bell v. Iorrison dt al.),
ihg the party might have paid it, or was unvilling to acknowledge it as a debt then subsisting; and that is the point to
which an express acknowledgment should have been proved."
This'is certainly a very strong case to illustrate the rule, adopted in Kentucky.
In Gray vs. Lawridge (2 Bibb R. 284,) it was proved on the
trial, that the party had admitted the justice of the account
within five years, and that it might go in discharge of the interest due on a bond of the defendant, on which the suit was
brought by the plaintiff. The witness did not know the particular items of the account, nor the amount thus acknowledged by the plaintiff. The Court held, that the acknowledgment
did not go further, than that the demand should be allowed in
payment of the interest; and that so much as the party could
show of a debt due to him not exceeding the amount of the interest thendue, was taken out of the statute, and no further. In
Ormsby vs. Letcher, (S Bibb 1R. 269,) it was decided, that an
agreement of the defendant within five years, tkat a "settlement,
made with the brother of the defendant should be subject to
the examination of either party, did not take the case out of
the statute. It may be inferred, that it was a settlement of
accounts between the parties, and that the action was brought
for the balance due to the plaintiff; although the report does
not so state. The Court said, "1this agreement does not cont in an acknowledgment of a subsisting demand, and a promise
to pay in consideration thereof." The language of this case, as
well as that in Harrison vs. Handley, might lead -to the impression *thatthe Court thought that an acknowledgment of a
subsisting debt, was not alone sufficient; but that thede must be
also a promise to pay-the debt. But, perhaps it is more correct to construe it as importing no more than that there must
be such an acknowledgment, coupled with circumstances, from
which a promise to pay would naturally and irresistibly be
implied.
These are all the, decisions, which we have met with in the
Kentucky Reports on this point. They evince a strong disposition, in the Fourls of that state, to restrict, within very close
limits, every attempt to revive debts by implied promises, resulting from acknowledgments and other confessions by parol.
Itis our duty to follow out the spirit of these decisions, so far
as we are enabled to gather the principles on which they are
founded, and to apply them to the case at bar.
The evidence in the case at bar, resolves itself into two heads;
first, whether the admission of a party of the existence of an
unliquidated atcount, on which something is due to the plaintiff, but no specific balance is admitted, and no document.pro(luced at the time from which it can be. ascertained what the

366

SUPRE ME COURT.
(Bell

0.

Morrison et al.)

parties understood the balanqe to be; is sufficient to take the,
case out of the statute, and let in the plaintiff to prove, aliunde,
any balance, however large it may be: secondly, if not, whether
the admission on the part of Morrison, of his willingness to pay
7,000 dollars, and close the business, might (under all the circumstances,) entitle the plaintiff to recover that amount, and
thus to furnish a just objection to the ruling of the Circuit
Court.
In both of these views, the case is not without its difficulties;
and the -Kentucky decisions present no authority directly in
point. The evidence is clear of the admission of an unsettled
account, as well from the letters of Butler, as the conversation
of Morrison. The latter acknowledged that the partnership
"was owing" the plaintiff; but as he had not the books, he
could not settle with him. If this evidence stood-alone, it would
be too loose to entitle the plaintiff to recover any thing. The
language might be equally true, whether the debt were one dollar or ten thousand dollars. It is indispensable for the plaintiff
to go further, and to establish, by independent evidence, the
extent of the balance due him, before there can arise any promise to pay it as a subsisting debt. The acknowledgment of
the party, then, does not constitute the sole ground of the new
implied promise; but it requires other intrinsic aid, before it
can possess legal certainty. Now, if this be so, does it not let
in the whole mischief intended to be guarded against by the
statute? Does it not enable the party to bring forward stale
&emands, after a lapse of time, when the proper evidence of the
real state of the transaction cannot be produced? Does it not
tend to encourage perjury, by removing the bar upon slight acknowledgments of an indetermi:;ate nature?: Can an admission,
that something is due or some balance owing, be justly construed into a promise ta pay any debt or balance, which the
party may assert or prove before a jury ? If there be an express promise to such an effect, that might be pressed as a dispensation with the statute; but the question here is, -ghether
the law will imply such a promise, from language so doubtful
and general. The language of the Court, in Harrison vs.Hanley, was, that "mere loose expressions or vague acknowledgments, will not suffice." Ve think, that such a general admission of an unsettled account, and of auindeterminate debt, would,
by the Courts of Kentucky, be held as too vague an acknowledgment to take the case out of the statute. It would not establish any particular subsisting debt, and therefore be destitute
of reasonable certainty to raise an implied promise.
The other point is also not without its embarrassments. Was
Morrison's offer of 7,000 dollars, to close the business, the absolute admission of a debt to that amount, or a conditional pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.,

$67

(Bell vs. Iorrison et l.)
mise to pay that sum, if the party would accept it in discharge
of his claims? We think, taking all the circdmstances, it scarcely admits of the former interpretation. It appears from the
testimony itself, that Morrison did not know the state.of the
partnership accounts, and had not the partnership books to
enable him to ascertain it, He also expressed a personal reason for his desire to settle the account, alleging, that he was
growing old, and was"anxious for a settlemdnt. His offer must
therefore be deemed to be in the nature of a compromise, to
pay the sum, if the plaintiff would give a complete. discharge of
his claims; or, to use his own words, "and close the business."
It may, therefore, be fairly deemed a conditional offer to pay
a conjectural, not a known balance; to buy peace, and not to
acknowledge an absolute debt. If this be, as we think it is, a
conditional offer, then, upon the clear text of the Kentucky, as
well as the English, and of other American decisions; the case
would not be taken out of the statute, unless the plaintiff had
performed the condition.
But if this view of the case should be more doubtful than it
seems to us to be, it still remains to consider, Whether the acknowledgment of one partner, after the dissolution of the copartnership, is sufficient to take the case, out of the statute, as
to all the partners. How far it may bind the partner, making
the acknowledgment to pay the debt, need not be inquired into;
to maintain the present action, it must be binding upon all.
In the case of Bland vs. Haslering, (2 Vent. 151,) where the
action was against four, upon a joint promse, and the plea of
the statute of limitations was put in, and the jury found that one
uf the defendants, did promise within six years, and that
the others did not; three judges, against Ventris J. held that
the plaintiff could not have judgment against the defendant, who had made the promise. 'This case hasiceen explained upon the ground that the verdict did not conform to the
pleadings, and establish a joint promise. It is very doubtful.
upon a critical examination of the report, whether the opinion
of the Court, or of any of the Judges proceeded solely upon
such a ground.
In Whitcomb vs. Whiting, (2 Doug.R. 65,) decided in 1781,
in an action on a joint and several note brought against one of
the makers, it was held that.proof of payment, by one of the
others, of interest on the note and of part of the principal,
within six years, took the case out of the statute, as against
the defendant who was sued. Lord Mansfield said, "payment
by one is payment for all, the one acting virtually for all the
rest; and in the same manner, an admission by. one is an admission by all, and the law raises the promise to pay, when the
debt is admitted ta be dmw." Thi-. is the whole reasoning re

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell vs. MIorrison et a.)
ported in the case, and is certainly not very satisfactory. It
assumes that one party who has authority to discharge, has,
necessarily, also, authority to charge theothers; that a virtual
agency exists in each joint debtor to pay for the whole; and that
a virtual agency exists, by analogy, to charge the whole. Now,
this very position constitutes the matter iii controversy. It is
true, that a payment by one, does enure for the benefit of the
whole; but this arises not so much from any virtual agency for
the whole, as by operation of law; for the payment extinguishes
the debt; if such payment were made after a positive refusal or
prohibition of the other joint debtors, it would still operate as
an extinguishment.of the debt, and the creditor could no longer
sue them. In truth, he who pays a joint debt, pays to discharge
himself; and so far from binding the others conclusively by his
act, as virtually theirs also, he canuot recover over against them,
in contribution, without such payment has been rightfully made,
and ought to charge them.
When the statute has run -against a joint debt, the reasona.
ble presumption is that it is no longer a subsisting debt; and
therefore, there is no ground on which to raise i virtual agencyto pay that which is not btdmitted to exist. But,if this were not
so, still there is a great difference between creating a virtual
agency, which is for. the benefit of all, -and one which is onerous
and prejudicial to all. The one is not a n'atural or necessary consequence from the other. A person may well authorize the payment of a debf for which he is now liable; and yet refuse to
authorize a charge, where there at present exists no legal liability to pay. Yet, if the principle of Lord Mansfield be correct,, the acknowledgment of one joint debtor will bind all the
rest, even though they should have utterly denied the debt at
the time wben such acknowledgment was made.
Tie doctrine of Whitcomb vs. Whiting, has been followed
in England in subsequent cases, and was applied to in a strong
manner, in Jackson vs. Fairbank; (2 H. B1. 340,) whe-e the admission of a creditor to provu a debt, on a joint and several note
under a bankruptcy, and. to receive a dividend, was held sufficient to charge a solvent joint debtor, in a several action against
him, in which he pleaded the statute, as an acknowledgment of
a si bsisting debt. It has net, however, been received without
hesitation.- In Clark vs. Bradshaw, (S Bsp. R. 155,) Lord Kenyon; at Nisi Prius, expressed some doubts upon it; and the
pause went off on another ground. And in Brandram vs. Wharton, (1 Barn. 4 X.!d. "463,)the case was very much shaken, if
not overturned. Lord Ellenborough, upon that.occasion used
language, from which his dissatisfaction with the whole dbctrine, may be clearly inferred. "This doctrine," said he, "of
rebuttinig the statute of limitations by an acknowledgmentdther

JANUARY TERM, 1828.
(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)

369

-

than that of the party himself begun with the case of Whitcomb vs., Whiting. By that decision, where however there
was an express acknowledgment, by an actual payment of a part
of the debt by one of the parties, I am bcund. But that case
was full of hardship; for this inconvenience may follow from it.
Suppose a person liable jointly with thirty or forty others, to a
debt, he may-have actually paid it, he may have had in his possession the document, by which that payment was proved, but
niay have lost his receipt. Then, though this was one of the
very cases which this statute was passed to protect, he may still
be bound and his liabiity, be renewed, by a random acknowledgment made by some one of the thirty Or forty others, who
may be careless of what mischief he is doing, and who. may
even nat know of the payment which has been made.' Beyond
that case. nerefore, I am not prepared to go, so as to deprive a
party, of the advantage given him by the statute, by means of
an imnplied acknowledgmient."
The English cases decided since the American mtevolution,
are by an express statute of Kentucky, declared not tobe of authority in their Courts; and consequently Whitcomb vs. Whiting in Douglas, and the cases -which have followed it, leave the
question in Kentucky quite open to be decided upon principle.
In the American Courts, so far as our researches have extended, few'cases have been litigated upon this question.i In
Smith Damor vs. D. & G. Ludlow, 6*Jokns. .R. 967, the suit
was brought against both partners, aid one of them pleaded the
statute. Upoi the dissolution of the partnership, public notice was given, that the dther partner was authorized to adjust
all accounts; and an account signed by him, after such advertisement, and -within six years, was introduced. It was also
proved, that the plaintiff called *onthe partner who ple.ded the
statute, before the commencement of the suit, and requested a
.settlement, and that he then admitted an account, dated in 1797,
to have been made out by him ;---that he thdught the account had
been settled by the other defendant, in whose hands the books
of the partnership were, and that he.would see the other defendant on the subject, and communicate the result to the plaintiff. The Court held that this -was sufficient to take the case
out o the statute; and said, 'that without any express authority, the confession of one partner, after the dissolution, will
take a debt out of the statute. The acknowledgment will no,
The Reporter has been informed, -byMr. Chief Justice Gibson, that,

at the December Term, 1827, of the Supreme Court of Penpsylvania, the
Court decided, after full argument, that the ackn6wledgment by a partner;
after the dissolution of the partnership, will not take'the debt out of the
statute, so as to make the other, former-pirtners liable. Thi case will bi
reported by Messrs. Sergeant & llawle.

VOL. 1.

SA

370

SUPREME COURT,
(Bell vs. Mortipn et al.)

of itself, be evidence of an original debt; for, that would enable one party to bind the other in new contracts. But the original debt being proved or admitted, the confession of one
will bind the other, so as to prevent him from-availing himself
of the statute. This is evident, from the cases of Whitcomb
vs. Whiting, and. Jackson vs. Fairbank; and it results necessarily from the power given to adjust accounts. The Court also
thought the acknowledgment of the partner setting up the statute, was sufficient of itself to sustain the action. This case
has the peculiarity of an acknowledgment made by both partners, and a formal acknowledgment by the partner who was authorized to-adjust the accounts after the dissolution of the partnership. There was not, theref6re, a virtual, but an express,
and notorious agency, devolved on him. to settle the account."
The correctness of the decision, cannot, upon the general
view taken by the Court, be. quesiioned. In Roosevelt vs.
Marks, 6 Johns. Oh. Bep. 266. 291, Mr. Chancellor Kent admitted the authority of Whitcomb vs. Whiting; but denied
that of Jackson vs. Fairbank, for reasons which appear to us
solid and satisfactory. Upon some other cases in New-York,
we shall have occasion hereafter to comment. In Hunt vs.
Bridgham, 2 Pick. R. 581, the Supreme Court of Massachu.
setts, upon the authority of the cases in Douglass, -1. Blackstone" and Johnson, held that a partial payment by the principal debtor on a note, took the case out of the statute of limitations, as against a surety. The Court do not proceed to any
reasoning to establish the principle, considering it as the restof the authoi'ities. Shelton vs. Cocke, 3 Murnford's R. 191,
is to the same effect; and contains a mere annunciation of the
rule, without any discussion of its principle. Simpson vs. Morrison, 2 Bagy's Rep. 53S, proceeded upon a broader ground, and
assumes the doctrine of the case in 3. Taunt. Rep. 104, hereinafter noticed, to be correct. Whatever may be the just influence of such recognitions of the principles of the English cases,
in other states; as the doctrine is not so settled in Kentucky,
we must resort to such recognition, only, as furnishing illustiations, to assist our reasoning; and decide the case now as if
"It
had never been decided before.
By the general law of partnership, the act of each partner,
during the continuance of the partnership and within the scope
of its objects, binds all the others. It is considered the ct of
each and of all, resulting from a general and mutual delegation
of authority. Each partner may, therefore, bind the partnership by his contracts in the partnership business; but he cannot bind it by any contracts beyond those limits. A dissolution
however puts an end to the authority. By the force of its terms
It operates as a revocation of all power to create new contracts;

TANtJUAMY TERM, -1828

371

(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)
and the right of partners as such can extend no further than
to settle the partnership concerns already existing, and to distribute the remaining funds. Even this fight may be qualified,
and restrained, by the express delegation of the whole authority to one of the partners.
The question, is not however as to the authority of a partner after the dissolution to adjust, an admitted and subsisting
debt; we mean, admitted by the whole partnership or uhbarred by the statute; but whether he can, oy his sole act, after
the action is barred by lapse of time, revive it against all the
partners, without any new authority communicted to him for
this purpose. We think the proper resolution of*this point
depends upornother, that is, whether the acknowlegdment or
promise, is to be deemed a nere continuation. of the original
promise, or a new contract, springing out of and supported
by the original 'consideration. We think it is. the latter,
both upon principle and authority; and-if so, as after th6-dissolution no one partner can create a new contract, binding upon
the others, his acknowledgment is inoperative and void, as to
them.
There is some confusion in the langtage of the bookls, resulting from a want of strict attention to the distinction here
indicated. It is often said that an acknowledgment revives the
promhise, when it is meant, that it revives the debt or caude of
action. The revival of a debt, supposes that it has been once
extinct and gone; that there has been a period in which it had
lost its legal -use and validity. The act which revives it, is
what essentially constitutes its new being, and is inseparable
from it. It stands not. by its original force, but by the new
promise; -which imparts vitality to it. Proof of the latter is
indispensable to raise the assump.it, on which an action can be
maintained. It was this view of the matter, which first created
the doubt, whether it was not necessary that a new consideration should be proved to support the promise, since the old
consideration was gone. That doubt has been overcome; and
it is now held, that the original consideration is sufficient, if
recognised, to uphold the new promise, although the statute
cuts it off, as a support for the old. What, indeed, would
seem to be decisive on this subject, is, that the new promise
if qualified or condi'tional, restrains the rights of tie party to
its own terms; and if he cannot recover, by those terms, he
cannot recover at all. If a person promise to pay, upon condiion that the other do an act, pe'formance must be shown, before any. title accrues. If the declaration lays a promise by or
to an intestate, proof of the acknowledgment of the debt by
or to his personal representative, will ndt maintain the writ.
Why not, since it establishes the continued existence of the

79,

SUPREME COURT.

(Bell vs. Morrison et al.)
debt? The plain reason is, that the promise is a new one, by
or to the administrator himself, upon the original consideration; and not a revival of the original promise. So, if a man
promises to pay a pre-existing debt, barred by the statute, when
he is able, or at a future day, his ability must shown; or the
time must be passed before the action can be maintained. Why?
Because it rests on the new promise, and its terms must be
complied with. We do not here speak of the form of -al.
leging the promise in the declaration; upon which, perhaps,
there has been a diversity of opinion and judgment; but of the
fact itself, whether the promise ought to be laid in one way or
another, as an absolute, or as a conditional promise; which
may depend upon the rules of pleading.
This very point came before the twelve Judges, in the case
of Hyling vs. Hastings, (I Ld. .Raym. S89, 421,)in the time of
Lord Holt. There, one of the points was, "whether the acknowledgment of a debt within six years, would amount to a
new promise, to bring it out of the statute; and they were all
of opinion, that it would not, but that it was evidetce of a promise." Here then', the Judges n anifestly contemplated the acknowledgment, not as a continuation of the old promise, but
as evidence of a new promise; and that it is the new promise,
which takes the case out of the statute. Now, what is a new
promise, but a new contract? a contract to pay, upon a preexisting consideration, which does not, of itself, bind the party
to pay, independently of the contract? So, in Boydell vi Druminond, 2 Camp. R1?.157, Lord Ellenborough, with his characteristic precision, said, "if a man acknowledges the existence of
a debt, barred by the statute, the law has been supposed to
raise a new promise to pay it, and thjus the remedy is revived."
And it may be affirmed, that the general current of the English, as well as the American authorities, conforms to this
view, of th operation of an acknowledgment. In Jones vs.
Moore, (5 Bzinney AV. 573,) Mr. Chief Justice Tilghman, went
into an elaborate examination of this very point; and clime to'
the conclusion, from a review of all the cases- that an acknowledgment of the debt, can only be considered as evidence
of a new promise; and he added, "I cannot comprehend the
meaning of reviving the old debt, in any other manner, than by
a new promise.3"
There is a class of cases, not yet adverted to, which materially illustrates the right and powers of partners, after the dissolution ofthe partnership, and bears directly on the point under consideration. "In, Hackley vs. Patrick, (3 Johns. R. 536,&)
it %assaid by the Court, that "after a dissolution of the partnerihip, the powe of one party to bind the others, wholly ceases.
There.is no reason why his acknowledgment of an account,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

373

(Bell w. Morrison et al.)
should bind his co-partners, any mor6 than his giving a promissory pote, in the name of the firm or any other act." And
it was therefore held, that the plaintiff must produce further
evidence of the existence of an antecedent debt, before he could
r~cover; even though, the acknowledgment was by a partner,.
authorized to settle all the accounts of the -firm. This doctrine was again recognised by the same Court, in Malden v8.
'Shcrburne (15 Johns. 1B. 409, 424,) although it was admitted,
that in Wood- v. Braddick (I -Taunt. 104,).a different decision had been had in England. If this doctrine be well founded, as we think it is, it furnishes a strong ground to question
the efficacy of an, acknowledgment to bind the partnership for
any purpose. If it does not establish the existence of a debt
against the partnership, why should itbe evidence against it at
all? If evidence, aliunde, of facts within the reach of thestatute, as the existence of a debt, be necessary before the ac4
knowledgment binds, is not this letting in all the mischiefs
against which the statute intended to guard the parties: viz. the
introduction of stale and dormant demands, of long standing,
amd of uncertain proof ? If the acknowledgment, per se, does not
bind the other partners, where is the propriety of admitting
proof of. an antecedent debt, extinguished by the statute as to
them, to be revived without their consent? It seems dif"ficult to find a satisfactory reason, why an acknowledgment
should raise a new promise, when the consideration upoxwhich alone it rests, as a legal obligation, is not coupled with
it in such a shape as to bind the parties; that the. parties are
not bound by the admission of the debt, as a debt, but are
bound by the acknowledgment of the debt, as a promise, upon
extrinsic proof. The doctrine in I Taunt. 104, stands upon a
clear, if it be a legal .ground; that as to the things. past, the
partnership continues and always must continue, notwithstanding. the dissolution. That however is a matter which we are
not prepared to admit and constitutes-the very groun'd now in
controversy.
The light in which we are disposed to consider this question is, that after a dissolution of a partnership, no partner can
create a cause of action against the other partners, except by a
new authority communicated to him for that purpose. It is
-wholly immaterial, what is the consideration which is to raise
such cause of action; whether it be a supposed pre-existing
debt.of the partnership, or any auxiliary consideration, which
might prove beneficial to them. Unless adopted by them, they
are not bound by it, When the statute of-limitations h~s once
run against a debt, the cause of action against the partnership
is gone. The acknowledgment, if it is to operate at all, is to

SUPREME -COURT.
(Bell v. Morrison et al.)
create anew cause of action; to revive a debt which is cxtinct;
and thus to give an action which has its life from the new promise implied by law from such an acknowledgment, and operating and limited by its purport. It is then, in its essence, the
creation of a new right, and not the enforcement of an old one.
We think, that the power to create such a right does not exist
after a dissolution of the partnership in any partner.
There is a case in the Kentucky Reports, not cited at the bar,
which coincides, as far as it goes with our own views; and if
taken, as a general exposition of the law, according to its terms,
is conclusive on this point. It is the case of Walker and
Evans vs. Duberry (1 Marshall'sRep. 189.) It is very briefly
reported, and the-opinion of the Court was as follows. "We
are of opinion that the Court below improperly admitted as
evidence against Walker, the certificate.o-f. J. T. Evans, made
after the dissolution of the partnership, between Walker and
Evans: acknowledging that the partnerslfipfhm was indebted
to the defendant Duberry, in the sum demanded, in the action
brought by him, in the Court below. It cites S Johns. Rep. 536.
3l lumf. R. 191.
It does not appear what was the state of facts in the Court
below, nor whether this was an action in which the statute of
limitations was pleaded, or only non a8sumpff generally. But
the position is generally asserted, that the acknowledgment
of a debt by one partner after a dissolution, is not evidence
against the other. Whether the Court meant to say, in no
ase.whatever, or only when the debt itself was proved,alinde,
does not appear. Its language is general and would seem to
include all cases; an4 if any qualif cati6n were intended, it
would have been natural for the Court to express that qualification, and have confined it- to the cii'cumstances of the case.
Theonly room for doubt, arises from the citations of 8 Johnson and 3 Mumford. The former has been already adverted
to; and the latter Shelton "vs. Cocke & others (3 Mumf. R.
191,) recognised the distinction asserted in S Johns. A. as
Nound. These citations may, however, have been referred .o
as mere illustrations, going to establish the proposition of the
Court to a certain extent, and not as limitations of its extent.
lit any view, it leads to the most serious doubts, whether, the
stte" Courts of Kentucky would ever adopt the doctrine of
Whitcomb vs. Whiting in D6uglas; especially so, as the early
case inS Vent. 151, carries an almost irresistible presumption,
that the Courts, at that time , held h doctrine entirely inconsistent with.the case in. Douglas.
Upon the whole, it is. our judgment that there is no error in
the decision of the Circuit-Court, ani it ought to be affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

375

(Bell vs. 'Morrison et al.)

It 7., however, to be understood that this opinion thus expressed, is not unanimous, but of the majority of the Court; and
as is apparent, from the preced ng reasoning, it has been, principally, although not exclusively, influenced by the course of
Jecisions in Kentucky upon this subject.

Tudagment tirmed, tLith costs.

