JANUARY TERM, 18928.

CORVELIUS COMEGYS AND ANDREW PETTIT, PLAImN''riS IN ERROR, vS. AmBRosE VNASSE, DEFENDAN'T IN ERROR.
The object of the treaty with Spain, which ceded Florida to the United
States, dated 22d May 1819, was to invest the commissioners with full
power and authority to xeceive, examine, and decide upon the amount
and validity of asserted claimi upon Spain, for damages and injuries.
Their decision, within the scope of this authority, is conclusive and final,
and is not re-examinable. The parties must abide by it, as the decree of
a competent tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction. A rejected claim cannot
be brought again under review, in any judicial tribunal. But it does not
naturally follow that this authority extends to adjust all conflicting rights,
of diftrent citizens, to the fund so awarded. The commissioners are to
look to the original claim for damages and injuries against Spain itself;
and it is wholly immaterial, who is the legal or equitable owner of the
claim, provided he is an American citizen. {2121
After thc validity and amount ofthe claimhas been ascertained by the award
ofthe commissioners, the rightsofthe claimanttothe fund, which has pasSed
into his hands, and those of others, are left to the ordinary coute of jUdicial proceedings, in the established Courts of Justice. 12121
In general, it may be affirmed, that mere personal torts, which die with the
party, and do not survive to his personal representatives, are incapable of
passing by assignment; and that vested rights, ad rem and in re; pns ibilities, coupled with an interest and claim, growing out of, and adhering
to property, may pass by assignment. 12131
The law givep to the act of abandonment to underwriters, when accepted,
all the effects which the most accurately drawn assignment would accomplish. The underwiker then stands in the place ofthe insured, and becomes
legally entitled to all that can be recovered from destruction. 1214}
It is clear, that the right to compensation for damages and injuries, to which
citizens of the United States were entitled, and which, under the treaty with Spain, were to be the subjects of compensation ; passed by aban.
donnent to the underwriters upon property, which had been seized or
captured. 1215}
The right to indemnity for an unjustcapture, on the sovereign ;.whether remediable in his own Courts, or by his own extraordinary interposition, or
grants upon private petition, or upon public negotiation ; is a right attached to the ownership of the property itself, and passes by cession to the
account of the ultimate sufferer; and is afterwards assignable to the person to whom it had been ceded. {215}
It is not universally, though it may be ordinarily, the test of a right, that it
may be enforced in a Court of Justice. Claims and debts due by a sovereign, are not commonly capable of being so enforced. It does not follow,
that because an unjust sentence cannot be reversed, that the party injured
has lost all right to justice, or all claim, upon principles of public law, to
remuneration. 1216?
The treaty with Spain recognised an existing righpin the aggrieved parties
to compensation; and did not, in the most remote degree, turn upon the
notion of donation or gratuity. It was demanded by our government as
matter of right, and as such was granted by Spain. {2171
The right to compensation from Spain, heldunder abandonment made to un.

VOL. I.

3b

194

SUPREME COURT.

(Voniegys et a]. ws.Vasse.)
derwriters, and accepted by them, for damages and injuries, and which
were to be satisfied under the treaty, by the United States ; pissed to the
assignees of the bankrupt, who held such iights by the provisions of the
Sbankruptlaw of the United States, pzssed April4, 1800. 12191
THIS case came~before the Cour by writ of error to the Cirquit Court of Pennsylvania. The defendant in error instituted
hbis suit against the plaintiffs here, who were the surviving
assignees, under a commission of 'bankruptcy, issued against
him' under the Act of Congress of the United States, for establishing a uniform system -of bankruptcy throughout the
United States, passed April 5, 1800.
In the Circuit C6urt, a judgment was entered in favour of
the defendant in error, the parties having agreed upon a
case, which, if required by either, might be turned into a special verdict, subject to the opinion of the Circuit CourtThe case was: that Ambrose Vasse, previously to the year
1809, was an underwriter on various vessels and cargoes, the
property of citizens of the United States, which were captured and carried inio ports of Spain and her dependencies; and
'abandonments were made thereof to the said Vasse, by the
owners, and h paid the losses arising thlerefrom, prior to the
year 1802,
The said Ambrose Vasse became embarrassed in his affairs,
and his creditors proceeded against him as a bankrupt, under
the Act of Congress of the United States, for establishing an
uniform system of.bankruptcy tlroughout the United States.
An assignment was made accordingly, to Jacob Shpoenaker,
who is since deceased, and the defendants, Cornelius Comegys
and Andrew Pettit; who proceeded to take upon themselves
the duties of assignees, and have continued tf discharge the
same. The- certificate of discharge of the said Ambrose
Vasse, bears date the 28th day of May, 1802.
.In the year 1824, the sum of 8846 dollars 14 cents, was received by the defendants from the Treasury of the United
States; being.the sum awarded by the commissioners sitting at
Washington, under the treaty of amity, settlement, and limits,
between the United States of America, and his Catholic Majesty, the king of Spain, dated the 92d day of February 1819,
on account of the captures and losses aforesaid.
On the 9th day of December 1823, the said Ambrose Vasse
fled a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, claiming the sum awarded by the commissioners, and
a settlement of the accounts of the assignees. This bill was
intended to operate uioA the funds 'which were expected to
come into the hands ot the agent of the assignees, prosecuting
for them the claim before the commisioners; but it was not

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

195

(Comegys et al s. Vase.)
proceeded on; the said funds having been received by another
person..
The said Ambrose Vasse made a return of his effects to the
commissioners of bankruptcy. The claim upon Spain for spoliations was not in the schedule; but claims upon France
and Great Britain were.
The plaintifs in error made the following points:
1. That the decree of the commissioners under the Florida
treaty, awarding the fund to the assignees of Ambrose Vasse,
is conclusive in their favour, and against him.
2. That if the claim on the Spanish government was not legally the subject of assignment, and therefore did not pass
under the bankrupt proceedings, to the assignees,. it could not
pass under the abandonments made to Ambrose Vasse; who
claims the fund, not as the .original proprietor, but through
cessions or assignments of the property made to him as an
underwriter.
I S. That this claim, as an incident to the property captured
and carried into Spanish ports, did pass under the assignment
of the bankrupt, and became vested in his assignees.
The case was argued by Mr. J. R. Ingersoll, and Mr. D. B.
Ogden, for the plaintiffs in error; and by.Mr. Lee, and Mr. C.
J. Ingersoll, for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error, it was contended,
1. That the commissioners, under the Florida treaty had
fixed the relative rights of the parties, by awarding the fund to
the assignees, in the face of a claim presented by the bankrupt
himself. In deciding thus, they decided, in effect, on the validity and operation of the assignment. The proceeding was not.
merely ex parte, but afforded to the bankrupt an opportunity
to exibit his pretensions; of, which he had not failed to avail
himself. His act of interposition, Was manifested by a bill in
equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
for the county of Washington, in December 1823; in which
Ambrose Vasse, the complainant, states the facts now before
this Court, and attempts to reach the fund, not (as at present,)
from the assignees, but against the assignees'; and to wrest it,
not fr9m the commissioners--bit from the Treasurer of the
United States, who acted under their authority and decrees;
and was, accordingly, made a party to the bill. If the commissioners have really decided the point-rand, in so doing, they
have not exceeded their jurisdiction; no appeal lies to this
Court. They acted under a treaty, which is the supreme law"
of' the land; and no other tribunal, however exalted, can reverse, or interfere with their decrees. The bill in equity admits, that Ambrose Vasse never. filed the original claim.
Hence, it appears, that all the documents in support of iti

196

SUPREME COURT.

(Comcgys et aL. vs. Vasse.)
were in the possession of his assignees; and they enjoyed this
evidence of ownership, at least. It is not, however, necessary,.
that the award of the commissioners should be conclusive-as
the case of the plaintiffs in error, is sufficiently strong upon
the other points, which have been decided in the Court below.
2. The argument of the defe;ndant in error, is absolute and
unqualified-that the claim which has yielded the fund in controversy, was of a description which could not be assignedL That the
right to receive, did not exist in himself; and, therefore, he
could not transfer it to others-that he had nothing to assignthat his hopes rested on the will of an uaccountable, because
sovereign power, who might, or might not, realize them-that
no legal remedy could be pursued; and, without some species
of remedy, there can exist no right-that a claim, to be assignable, or even to have existence, -neans something not ideal, or
merely precarious, but substantial. and susceptible of enfor'ce.
ment-not merely to be thought of, but pursued; and, by possibility, to be gained. Admitting, for a moment, both the position and the inference, the shadowy character of the claim,
and the impossibility of transferring its ownership,;-and where
does the defendant in error stand? His right to sue and recover, either from the commissioners, or his assignees, is derived through exactly the same sort of channel, as that of his antagonists. The only difference is, that he claims through a liinited and partial-assignment; and they through a general and
all-comprehen,4.ve one. He was-not the ori.ginal owner. He
was an u.nderwriter, inerel'k, 9fi the property lost; and, when
he: paid the losses, he received the assignments, without ai
idea, that, at a distant day, this would be the shape in which
they would develop themselves. He made his assignment,
when every thing was entirely unchanged. If all the representative interests are to be disregarded, and the political bounty is
to enaire to the first proprietor ;then we are accountable, not to.
Ambrose Vasse, the underwritei--but to the original proprielors themselves. If the opposite argument be sound, neither
'of these parties is entitled to the money; and then, potior eat
conditio defendentis.
Nor does the defendant in error, injudiciously concede any
thing, in the position which he assumes. He has no standing
without it. Whatever he had, in the shape of property, passed by the bankruptcy. His only refuge, is in the suggestion,
that there was nothing, in the shape of property, to pass; and
then, he is inhappily landed here-that being himself a claimant of it, as property, because under an assignment-the same
argument applies with equal force to himsel and he is exactlv as badly situated, as his opponents.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

197

(Comegys et al. v8. Vasse.)
The bankrupt thought the claim pass'ed by the assignment,
and intended that it should-for claims of a similar charxter,
upon the' French and British governments, are stated among
his effects, in the schedule laid before the con)missioners.
This, upon the government of Spain, was omitted-probably,
because it was regarded as desperate, not being then'incliided
in any treaty.
IS. There was a clear property to be assiged. and it was assigned by the original owners to the underwriter, and by the
underwriter to his assignees.
1. Independently of i1 questions growing out of met- bankruptcy.-This was, in its nature, peculiarly the subject 46-aszignment. In matters of insurance, there was a time, when nearly every transfer consisted of a claim on a.'foreign. government. No neutral vessel could, with safety, m'nigate the ocean.
The attempt led; in instances innumerable, to cupture and condemnation. Insurances were resorted to, at any rate of premium, however extravagant; and the little chance of.hope of
redress, or indemnity, to which the underwriters succeeded,
was to be gathered from the sense of justice of these ruthless
belligerents. Hence, transfers of these claims3 were of perpetual occurrence. Not only were the transfers made, and deemed worthy op acceptance-but our Ameri'an Courts of ustice
would permit no recovery from the insurers, until a cession had
been actually made. Brown vs. Phocenix Ins. Co. 4 Binn. 45.
Rhinelander vs. Penn. Ins. Co. 4 (3ranchi, 42. Not only this; the
time when abandoment cannot be made, is after restitutionwhen the opposite argument supposes the right"only begins.
Adams vs. The Del. Ins. Co. 3 Binn. 287. Marshall vs. The
Del. Ins. Co. 4 Cranel, 202.
The claims on Denmark, France England, Naples, and Holland, comprise, agreeably to u sober estimate, seventeen millions of dollars, of American capital, locked up in the coffers
of foreign potentates; and, long since, for the most part, reimbursed to the original proprietors, and resting on the insurance offices, to an immense extent. ,
Why is it, that a policy always stipulates, that the insured
shallsue, labour, &c. after capture, and even after cofidemnation; if the one party be requiring, and. the other undertaking
a wild, preposterous, and desparig pursuit? It is the 8pes recuperandi-the incident to the property, or substitute for it,
which is. transferred, in whatever shape it may, at a distant
day, present itself; although the transfer may be in form of the
property itself. A thing need not be in possession, to be transerred. It may be on the other side of the globe. It need not
-even have actual existence, to be the subject of'a legal contract of transfer, or sale. A ship out of time-the hope, or

198

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. vs. Vasse.)

chance of redemption, is sold in good faith. ft appears,. afterwards, that she was, at the time, consumed by fire, or at the
bottom of the sea. Yet the contract was good.
2. As a matter of bankruptcy concern, and to be, regulated
by the principles of bankrupt laws.
The treaty itself says not a word, as to the person by whom
the restored property, or its substitute, is to be received.
It merely provides and awards the fund; but whether for
the original owner, or underwriter, or assignee, is submitted to
the general principles of established law. If it had provided,
eo nomine, for the bankrupt, then it might, indeed, have been
considered a solace for his general misfortunes, derived from
a kind but ill-judged policy; and the.political bounty, (as it

would then really be,) would, perhaps, flow exactly where it
was directed. But the argument, founded upon the idea of
political bounty, is defective, when it attempts, on that ground,
to give the fund to the bankrupt; since the treaty leaves that
point, viz, the individual object of its kindness, entirely undefined. In the concatenation.-of inferences, one essential link is
wAnting; namely, that the particular individual is to be reimbursed. But why should the underwriter be preferred? He is
not the original sufferer, whose feelings are to be assuaged;
nor the final loser, whose pecuniary injuries are to be redressbd. Had the violation of neutrality, which is remedied by the
treaty, never occurred, the propertywould have remained with
the insured. As it is, the underwriter has paid the loss, but he
has done it with the money 6f his creditorsv and hencethe.deficit, manifested in his bankruptcy. The real losers, then, on
principle, have the fairest claim to redress.
As to the propriety of adopting bankrupt laws, there may
be differences of opinion; but with respect to their object, policy, and true application, when established, there can be none.
They are not technical, but substantial. If they give relief
*from'present difficulties, and hope and energy to, future exertions, it is in consequence of entire renunciation of all benefit
from the past. If ingenuity could discover means by which
debtors, notwithstanding their-seeming surrender of all, could
still retain a lurking interest, which depriwes the creditor of his
expected consolation; it would not be surprising that bankrupt
laws should be for ever discountenanced by legislative opposition, and that one general mercantile community should continue under the influence.of a multitude of heterogeneous insolvent systems, feeble in their protection of the debtor, and worse
than useless to the creditor.
It were extraordinary, indeed,, if the effect of banbruptcy
were to protect previously acquired property. But for h± certificate., execution might be levied, attachment might reach the

.
IANUARY TERM, 1828.

199

(Comcgys et al. vs. V .se.)
ftnd5 the wit of mnan could not elude the scrutiny of the law.
Yet, the bankruptcy, which is designed to facilitate the assertion of these rights, if the present effort succeeds, would take
them all away.
The moment one becomes a bankrupt, a clear line is drawn
between what is his, and what is his creditors'. The faculties
which God and nature have given him, the disposition to labour, and the capacity for exertion of mind and body, are his
own, inalienably, and nothing can deprive him of them. Even
the personal claims to redress for bodily wrongs, which grow
out of his person, and not out of his creditors' property, remain. But results arising from the investments of property,
whether voluntarily or involuntarily made, however, or whenever to arise, tracing their origin to previous possessions, are
to return to those -with whom they originated, and who did but
advance them. HaMce, all the limitations to the transfer by
bankruptcy, are reducible to three classes.1. Such 'as may never happen, being not merely future in
their actual existence, but dependent for any, even a prospective existence, upon events which, perhaps, never may occur.
Of this description, are an heir apparent's pretensions. Moth
vs. Frome, .6bler, 394. A pension to a soldier, who may die
the moment after bankruptcy. Pay to an officer. Legacy to
a bankrupt's wife, on the contingency of her surviving another
person. Krumbhaar vs. Burt, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 406.
2. The lien of a tradesman, who has done work to a vessel.
Shoemaker vs. Norris, 3 Yeates, 392.
3. Torts which require an action in a personal form. Shoemaker vs. Keeley, 1 Yeates, 245. Benson vs. Flower, Sir T.
Jones, 215.
This is confined to mere personal wrongs, not growing out of
property, for there the assignees take, even though the injury
be accompanied with violence. Eden's B. L. 235.
Whatever does not come within one of these three exceptipns, passes. Hence, almost every possible variety is to be
found in the English cases, which are frequent, because of a
continuance of bankrdipt laws for a long series of years. 1 Cook
B. L. 290. 365. 3 T.'R. 88. 2 Vern. 439. 19 Vez. 432.
It was decided in England, nearly a century ago, that the
insurer bad the plainest equity in the world, to clai
the
proceeds of prizes taken under letters ot reprisal, after they
had paid the original owners. Ran'dal vs. Cochran, 1 Vez. Sen.
98. The bankrupt law of the United States, makes express
provision for the transfer of equitable, as well as legal interests.
Chief Justice Kent recognises our principle, in its largest extent, as to the substitute for the property, while he asserts that

200

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. w. Vasse.)

there was no existing hope of recovery, as to the property itself. Gracie vs. N. Y. Ins. Co. 8 Johns. 945.
The bankrupt law of the United States, in principle and poIicy,. is the same with the Britislh statuteg on the subject. In
terms, so far as it applies to the Present object, there is no difference. The deficiency is supposed to exist1. In the absence of the phrase of the statute, (13 Eliz. c. 7.)
giving to the' commissioners power 6 over all such interest in
lands, as the bankrupt may lawfully depart withall."
tut this leaves the question exactly where it found it; as we
are upon the very inquiry whether this be such a thing as he'
may lawfully depart withall. And it is more than doubtful,
whether the phrase would apply to the kind of interests now
in cofitem!plation.
2. In the supposed non-application of the 18th section, which
contains the words possi4ilities of profits. It is supposed that
this clause is introduced, not for the purpose of conveying the
thing contemplated, but merely to discover any thing which
may fall in prior to the certificate.
It is apprehended that there could be no object in a discovery, except to transfer; and it matters not whether the transfer is made while the object is remote, or is deferred until beneficial possession can accompany the conveyance. And any
thiin& falling in, would become property; and under that name,
njust Ilen and at all timeT-be disclosed.
S. In the absence of the general expression in the statute, 6
Geo.4, c. 16. "1That this act shall be construed beneficially for
creditors."
That provision is not necessary for the present object, which
is attained by a coistruction founded on the mere ordinary and
inherent policy of a bankrupt system. The result is reached
by Lord Chief Justice Dallas, in an opinion delivered at Hilary
Term, 59 Geo. 3, several years before the statute referred to,
had any existence. Clark vs. Calvert, 8 Taunt. 742.
Bankrupt laws are supposed to place the assignees in the
room of the bankrupt, in the " same situation," without reserve. Cassell vs. Carroll, 11 Wheat. 159-.
The interest in question, however, is plainly to be distinguished from a mere possibility; which is "an uncertain thing
that may or may not happen." 2Lill. .Abr.336.
An heir presumptive or apparent, may have an expectation,
but no right; for, the ancestor may outlive him, or otherwise
dispose of thi inheritance. Hence, an heir apparent may be a
witness, to prove the title to land, but a remainder-man cannot, Smith vs. Blackham, (I Salk. 283.) A reversion absolute
is thus a very different thing. Hence, we speak of the possibility of a reverter which cannot be assigned, just as we do of

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

901

(Comegys et al. vs. VasseO
the possibility of a possession which can.-Lord Mansfield, in
zhe argument reported 11 UTneat. 168, 6n the Maryland clharter.
A debt barred by the Act of Limitations, bankruptcy, or, perhaps, alienage-a debt of a foreign minister, infant, or married
woman, are not mere possibilities; although the remedies are
at least as defective, and apparently inaccessible, as the one in
question. The justice of a claim, and its assignable properties, are totally distinct, both from the question of its present
or future character, and from the nature and even existence of
a remedy. The assignable character of a thing depends on nothing techhical, or choses in action would not pass. But upon
the existence of right, abstracted from the consideration of
present ox' future enforcement, or the susceptibility of enforcement at all, from the possible want of a precise remedy. Can there
be a plainer proposition than this ?-that he who unjustly takes
my property from me, ought to restore it-in other words, that I
ought to have it. And the union of my. itle to have, with his duty
to restore, constitutes a rightful claim. The immediate wrongdoers, are the individuals who committed the depredations on
American commerce. The sovereign assumed the discharge
of these'obligations; and it is i. pursuance of that assumption,
that the money is paid.
The right might possibly be deficient, as regarded a specific
emedy, and yet be a right still; one, susceptible of being owned and transferred, though not advantageously used. But this
rightis perfect in itself, and is attended with a corresponding remedy. The error which lies at the root of theopposite suggestion,
consists in attaching a meaning too narrow and technical to the
term remedy. In a judicial Court of justice, as our Courts are
organized, perhaps there is n6ne. The division, however, into
executive, judiciary, and legislative departments of government, is not universal. If, as it may be, the sovereign is the
interpreter, as well as framer of the law; that is, if instead of
three branches, there be but one, or rather instead of their being separate, they are united; why is not an appeal as likely to
succeed when made to the supreme authority, as if made to
what is usually a subordinate department? At no very distant
period of British history, the king himself actually attended
in person in the Courts of Justice. He is still, in contemplation
of law, present, in aida regis. But if the separation be entire,
and judicial remedy be inaccessible, all being referred to the
supreme power alone; this merely reduces the difference between us, not to a question of remedy or no remedy, but the
kind or quality of the remedy, whether judicial or executive.
If this be the narrow line of separation, and so it is, at .the
worst, surely you cannot pronounce the one every thing, the
other nothing-less than nothin.; that, a perfect. absolute. aid
Vo. I.
Cr

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. v8; Vasse.)

'ecoverable right; this, a shadowy nonentity-a phantomsomething "less even than a hope."
'On the contrary, it is a fundamental rule of presumption,
that. sovereigns will do justice voluntarily. It is the basis of
international law. Hence, the broad line between barbarous
and civilized states. What sovereign of a civilized community
ever ventured to say, "he acknowledged no law but his own
will, and set at defiance all remedy but that of forice ?" There
are laws among nations, just as well defined, and about as little
liable to be broken, as those of particular mupicipalities. An
American officer is understood to have applied for, and obtained, compensation, from the British government. An American
citizen very recently made similar application, with similar
success, to the sovereign of France.
But it is more than presumption, that governments will do
justice. It may be, and often is, enforced. They are compellable, by a code which is as effectual in its sanctions, as it is
clear in its dictates. Municipal law is sometimes interfered
with, by limitations, tenders, and reliefs; but contracts and
lights are not, therefore, extinguished. There are places where
there is no law. In China, strangers are altogether without
the means of redress. Every one, with regard to them, is,
whether native or sojourner, really irresponsible, and acknowledges not even the law of force. Yet bargains are made, and
transfers are executed there, every day, which are respected
and, even enforced here. If one steal my property, and take refuge in the suburbs of Canton, does it cease to be my property ?-may I not retain or assign the ownership, notwithstanding the inaccessibility of the thing itself? Principles are established by authority and precedent, whicli go the whole length
of the case. The decision below assumes the broad ground,
that there was no right, either in Ambrose Vasse or his assignees, or the original owners; that " it is a mere expectancy,
but without hope, because without right, even a contingent
one." Elementary writers on the law of nations, maintain ver)
different principles, Grotiza, b,S. ch. 2. sec. 5. 2 Rutl. 568-9570. Conformably to these principles, a decision was pronounced by the commissioners, under the 7th article of the British
Treaty, in the case of the Betsey, Furlong master, WhTeaton's
ife of Pinckney, 19S, 4-c. The newly established Republic of
Colombia, has set a noble example of deference for these doctrines, by reimbursing to the sufferers from depredations by
their cruisers; the whole loss and interest, and fifty per cent.
damages besides.
The best securities by which the hold on property is main"tained, are claims on sovereign powers. Government stock,
treasury notes, exchequer bills, are all of this description. Yet

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

203

(Cornegys et al. v. Vasse.)
where is the citizen that does not gladly exchange all the steadfas; "earth-bound property he has, and invest it in this more
beneficial.and productive posse3sion ? Trover and trespass may
be maintained for it, contracts may be made with regard to it,
transfers may take place of it-in short, there is no criterion
of property or ownership, that may not be applied to what is
regarded as having no substantial,existence. A bond given by
the King of Prussia, declaring himself and his successors bound
to the holder, was held to pass s property by delivery; Gorgiei vs. Mieville, 5 Barn. 4- Cres. 45. Yet where was the judicial
remedy, if the crowned obligor had refused payment? Even
criminal jurisprudence gives its sanction and assent to these
principles. The forgery of a Prussian treasury note, is within
the statute, 43 Geo. 3. c. 139. sec. 1. Rex vs. Manasseh Goldstein, 3 Brod. 4- B. 201.
The dhcrees of a foreign government are firm and irreversible, only with regard to the thing. A host of decisions, from
Hughes and Cornelius, (2 Shower, 242,) down to Williams vs.
Armroyd, (7 Crancht, 4o-3,) and even the Apollon Eden claimant,
(9 Tryeat. 80,) confirm this. principle, but go no farther. It
required a constitutional provision to render adjudications and
decrees conclusive throughout--even among sister states. Redress, (if the thing itself be passed away,) is substituted-in some
other shape, where w ing has been done by the decree; and it
is the more necessary, in propontion to the efficacy and conclusiveness of the sentenc by which the specific property has
been irrevocably withdrawn. The cases provided for by treaty,
were not necessarily, or in po.at of fact generally, of judicial
condemnatioir and decree. They were of mere forcible abduction-and placing the ships and cargoes, tortiously, infra przesidia, for which indemnity is provided, not by restoring the
thing, but substituting pecuniary compensation.
If the claim were originally nothing, yet when it became
substantali as it did at last, by-the interposition of the government of the United States; it has relation back to the former
time, and makes the whole available ab initio.
For the defendant.
The case states that the money was paid from the treasury,
for losses provided for by the Florida treaty; but it does not
state, to whom, or for whom, it was paid. The commissioners
awarded nothing to Vasse's assiglees, but, as is believed, t9
certain insurers, who claimed the funds. No doubt their award
is conclusive on its subject matter, which is the amount and
validity of the claims. By-the eleventh section, they were to
receive, examine, and decide upon such amount and validity.
By the secoiid clause, they were to adjust claims. But they
had no judicial function, process, or power. They were a

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. vs. Vasse.)

board or inquest, to ascertain the sum of claims, and certify it
to the treasury for payment. But parties could not litigate
claim 3 before the commission which had no faculties of a judicial character. Neither of the parties to this suit were before that commission, which did not pretend to settle to whom,
but only how mtch should be allowed to any ostensible claimant; leaving it to the ordinary tribunals to determine between
disputants. It would be contrary to all principles, to extend,
by construction, the powers of such an extraordinary Court.
In Campbell vs. Mullett, (2 Su'anst. 579,) the three parties
before the board did not each and all claim the same fund, but
each his several share of it. There was no conflict of parties
before the commissioners; but as the French partner was- an
alien enemy, his claim to part was rejected on that ground. In
Randal vs. Cochran, (I Vez. sen. 98,) Lord Hardwicke rectified
a judgment of commissioners appointed to distribute prize
money; and the Vice Chancellor, in the case in 2 Szwaston,
does not ascribe to the commissioners exclusive jurisdiction,
except in their unquestionable province. Any person receiving
money by award of the commissioners, under the Florida treaty, holds it as money had and received to thp use of all and
any other persons capable of proving a right to it, or any. part
of it, by means of suit at law, or in equity.
The main question may be considered, first, by the light of
the common law; secondly, by that of the English bankrupt
acts and adjudications; thirdly, by our own.
The commissioners' assignment to the assignees, is of estate and effects, claims and demands. The money in dispute
was paid as indemnity for unlawful seizures; art. 9 of the treaty-Laws of the U. S. vol. 6. 620. Vasse's certificate was signed in 1802. Of consequence, there was no indemnity till twenty
t'ears afterwards. Whatever it may be, it is certain that it was
not specifically assigned, nor is it alluded to in the inventory
of his property. If it passed, therefore, it must have been by
mere operation of law, without intention of partit s; for neither bankrupts, commissioners, nor assignees, appear to have
adverted to it at all. Vasse's claims for English and French
spoliations, are mentioned, because they operated on his own
property as a merchant. But whatever claims, if any he had,
as an insurer, by virtue of losses made good by him to other
merchants, are no where specified in the bankruptcy proceedings. From. Vass8 or from the commissioners, the assignees
acquired no apparent title. Whatevero their right is to hold
the ftnd they have got, must be shown independently of their
title papers, which are altogther silent on the subject.
First: All the analogies irom the common law are against
it. By that, even a chose in action cannot be assigned, nor

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

205

(Comegyset al. vs. Vasse.)
any possibility or contingency. unless coupled with an in293. 1 Co2n. Dig. 696-7.
9m.
terest, or in equity. 2 Black.
Assignment, C. 1, 2, 3. Shep. Touch. 239-40. 322. 11 Mod.
152-Archer vs. Bokenham. 1 P. Wfrms. 574, Wind. vs. Jekyl. I *Ira. 132, Marks vs. Marks. This, however, was not
even a chose in action. It is questionable whether Vasse could
assign it himself. Yet the argument is, that the law assigned
it by caItLtructive operation. But it is contended, that as it
was assigned to him, it might be assigned by or from him.
That argument confounds specific cession with the constructive assignment, inferred from operation of law. The merchants whom Vasse indemnified for losses by captures, abandoned and ceded to him specifically the corpus and the spes
recuperandL Indeed, neither abandonment nor cession is necessary; payment after total loss, acquires the title transferred,
without either. 8 Johns. 27-Gracie vs. The New-York Insurance Company. But the postulate here is, that by construction of the Act of Bankruptcy, this sovereign boon was
transferred by yasse to the commissioners, and by them to
the assignees, without any specific or intended assignment of
it, twenty years before it had existence-that such was the intention of the legislaure in forming the Bankrupt Act. If so,
certainly all the familiar doctrines of the common law were
dverlooked by them.
2dly. It may be granted, that by the English statutes of Elizabeth, James, and George, concerning bankruptcy, and their
various adjudications, all property and interest pass by bankrupt assignment. I agree to the language of Ch. J. Dallas, as
quoted from 8 Taunt. 742-every beneficial interest. But then,
it must be what the law recognises as such, mot every popular or vulgar notion of right or claim. In 2 Cor. Dig. 112, title
Bankruptcy, note in., the cases are collected, and the principles
of exception will be found as well adjudged as those of general
rule. After the extensive provisions of the statutes of Eliza-:
beth and James, in 1732, came the Stat. 5 Geo. 2, cl. 38, enlarging and consolidating the system; and superadding the phrase
possibility ofprofits. The late consolidating Act of 1825, 5 Geo.
4, ch. 16, omits that phrase, but retains the iegislative injunction, which pervades and characterizes the English system, to
construe all the statutes largely and liberally for creditors.
Thus enjoined, the Courts have gone great lengths in administering the policy of the bankrupt laws. In exchange for personal liberation, they have required the surrender of all convertible property. But they have never taken any thing which
the bankrupt himself realizes after certificate, nor any mere
damage demand, though suable before certificate. Now the
fund in question, was a demand, if any thing, for damages for

910

SUPREME COURT.

(Comegys et al. w. Vasse.)
torts, and realized long after certificate. The English systcm
goes no further than estate and effects, whether goods in possession, debts, contracts, or choses in action, says Blackstone, 2
vol. 484. The Act of George IV. consolidating all its predecessors, is also limited to estate, goods, chattels, debts, and the
like. Eden. .ilpp. 25. Not, a word of it applies to any thing but
tangible property, for which there is right of action, and right
of action is nothing less than right of possession. 6 T. R. 684.
Dommett vs. Bedford. According to the latest and most eminent English authorities, mere possibilities are not deviseable,
nor do they pass to assignees under a commission of bankruptcy. Preston on Estates75-6. Prestonon .dbstradsof Titles 9.-5254. The whole tenor of the argument of the Master of the
Rolls, in the case of Campbell vs. Mullet, 2 Swanst. 551, is to
the same effect, in a case remarkably similar. The question
there turned on partnership, it is true; but the reasons submitted in behalf of Vasse, are precisely those of the Master of the
Rolls, whose decision is quoted as authority, in Gow on Part.
315-16. What possible construction of the English bankrupt
law, can be drawn to a different result? The hope in question
is not a thing at all, much-less a chose in actionm No right of action followed it. Possession of it was impracticable. No remedy
would reach it. The standard of remedy, is the true judicial
test of right. To say that this is hut E question of the kind of
remedy, is a mere argument of terms; for who can sue a sove1eign? If the claim cannot be made in and through a Court of
justice, it is no claim. .Even the political right, if it exist, to
petition or complain to executive government, is not a right
that can be classed with legal rights or claims. A mere possibility is an uncertain thing. 2 .il. .br. 348. But the hope
of indemnity from a foreign sovereign, is the merest posibility imaginable. The English exceptions are--1. Damages for
tots or slander. Sir.W. Jones, 215. Benson vs. Flower. 2. All
unliquidated damages. Doug. 562. Goodtitle vs. North. 6 '.
.1.489. Banister vs. Scot. 7 7'. B. 6102. Hammond vs, Toulmin. 8. Any mere course of action. 8 Vez. 835, ex partemare.
3 Wils. 270. Goddard vs. Vanderheyden. See also, 1 Barn. 4Atld. 491. Overseers of St. Martin vs. Warren. 3 Bingh. 154.
Davies vs. Arnott. In Watson vs. The Ins. Co. of N. A.) 1 Binn.
47, it was left to a jury to estimate a spes recuperandi. But
in Gracie vs. The New-York Ins. Co., 8 Johns. 237, this proceeding is treated as preposterous. A fourth class of cases in
England, concerns the pay of public officers, which never passes
by bankrupt assignment, on principles of public policy. The
doctrine of possibility of interest, is settled to mean a legal or
practicable possibility, 3 P. Wins. 122, Higden vs. Williamson.
Not any or every possibility,; id. 385, Jacobson vs. Williamson.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

207

(Comegys et al. s. Vamse.) '
mrbL 394. North vs. Frome, S Merw. 671. Carleton vs. Leighton. Chandler vs. Gardner, cited in 17 Vez. 3S8-34S. Crutwell
vs. Lye. It is not by the force of the phrase, that possibility of
interest becomes so comprehensive a provision in the English
bankrupt acts, but by their injunction on the Courts to construe them largely. If Vasse, after assignment,'and before certificate, had sued for slander, or personal trespass, the assignees would have no right; accerding to the English law, to.
whatever he recovered after certificate. Now, the indemnity
in question, which could not be sued for, was not awarded till
after certificate, and then for torts ex ddicto. Not a case from
the English codes an be cited, nor a principle, which- sanctions the assertion, that any mere possibility would pass under,
such circumstances. All the cases referred to in the opposite
argument, are of possibilities coupled with interest, and in some
of them, the exception now contended for, is strongly put. S T.
1?. 88, Jones vs. Roe. No English authority can be vouched
by the assignees, while th€ case ini 2 Swanston, the authority
of Mr. Preston, and the analogies of all their established exceptions to the general rule, concur in the conclusion, that such
a possibility as that in question, would not be taken by a commissioneri's assignment, under the Acts of bankruptcy in England.
Sdly. But theAmerican law differs materially from the English, on this subject. Bankruptcy, in England, is a long established system, matured and formed by the legislature, and sustained by the judiciary., In, this country;.it had. but a shortlived existence; has never been a public favourite, and the
Courts have no impulse from statutes to extend it by construction. The whole question is, what is the true interpretation
of the Act of Congress of 1§00. 3 voL Laws of U S. S20. The
5th, 6th. 13th and 14th sections, are all that regulate assignments, end they each and all, uniformly- contemplate propeqty
that may be realized. By the 5th, the commissioners are to
take possession of the property and deliver the effects to the
assignees. By the 6th, estate and effects are to be assigned;
and the 13th provides for the bankrupt's debts to be reeovered.
The 14th, directs the assignees to recover his property, goods,
chattels, and debts. The 13th, does, indeed, mention claims,
but it characterizes them as such as are suable, attachable; and
recoverable by legal process. The only debateable section is
the 18th. All the iest exclude every idea of possibility, con.
tingency, damages, or the like, They uniformly treat of tangible property, and nothing else. The 15th section, copied
from the firstsection of the statute5 Geo. 2, provides for disclosure of every possibility of profit. But that provision is confined to the aiscoveryof the bankrupt's interests. The same

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et aL v8. Vae.i)

secion, when it.comes to provide for their assignment, returns
to the word estate. The intent was to eviscerate ex Beipso a
.account of every thing that may be realized: but not comprehending personal demands for torts and damages.
This is clear from the 50th section, which provides for contingencies falling due before certifickte; a superfluous provi'sion if the 14th section had alr~ady provided fo- them. Yhese
sections would be in conflict otherwise. But the meaning of
this voluminous Act is nQt to be taken from any detailed section.' What m~y be ballid its code, is to be found in the whole
taken together. The 26th section, allowing a, premium for
the discovery of estate; the 9h section, compelling assignees
to exhibit accounts of estate and effects; the S2d section, directing them to keep books of receipts from estate; the 34th section, authorizing thein to sell the estate at auction; the 53d
section, making an allowancefor support out of the estate; and
the 54th section, directing a deposite of the money proceeding
from the estate; all these sections are to be taken with the 5th,
6th, 18th, aid 14th sections, already analysed, and altogether
demonstrate, beyond doubt, that property, such as may be
possessed, sued for, and recovered, taken into possession, and
turned to account, was intended to pass by commissioners' assignment, but-never any mere contingencies, with which nb
interest is coupled. By capture and deductio infrapraesidia, the
prop erty insured and paid for by Vasse, was lost entirely. No
lawful reclamation for it remained. The sufferer was the original owner, by whose cession both res.and 8pes were transfer-'
red to Vasse, when he paid for the losses. But this transfer
conveyed to him no chose in action, because there can be none,
wYithout 'a right of action, for there is no such thing as right,
without legal remedy. S Black. Com. 123. No interest existed in Vasse, because he had no right-no claim, because a
claim is a demand for a thing out of possession. Here was no
jus prosequendi, or standi in fudicio; no demand against the
Spanish government, or our own: nothing of which any judicature could take cognizance. A right to damages begins
'when an injury is inflicted. 3 Black. Corn. 116. But that is a"
suable right of municipal cognizance. So a captor has a defen,sible and imlzerfect ight, after capture, but onfly because the
p~rime Courts are open to him. Whereas Vasse could have
sued or complained no where. The wrong he sustained was
by a tort. The only redress was sovereign and international.
The wrong was belligerent. The claim- was by this nation
against that. There was no arbiter, and war was the only re-"
medy.
The bounty which resulted after twenty years' negotiation, was a sovereign boon, altogether contingent, gratuitous,
unllquidat.ed, and fortuitous. Spain had declined in power.

JAN4UARY TERIM, 1828.

209

-(Comegv"s et al. vs. Vsse.)
This country had improved. Her colonies, our ncighbours.
revolted, after our example. Florida, her provifice, happened
to be convenient for our requital, and the very seizure of that
province, which preceded its transfer, was not only atcidental.
but unauthorized. Grodius is quoted for the position, that an
individual right exists to make reprisal for wr6ng suffered.
But both Grotius and Rutherforth speak of national, not individual redress. Grotius does indeed refer to Homer for the
authority of Nestor, who is reported by that authority to have
reprised on the cattle of the Eleans, for their stealing his
horses. But this is not modern law, if it be even Grecian,
in the times of the Iliad. Individual reprisals are unknown to
the modern law of nations, especially to the law of this country, which, by written constitution, requires a law enacted in
form to make war lawful. Vasse, had no right to claim from
Spain, or t'o act at all, He could do nothing but submit. Mr
Pinkney's argument, as referred to in the case, of the Betsey,
Furlong, does not contradict this position; and if it does, it
was overruled by the majority of the commissioners, to whom
it was addressed. Brown vs. The Phoenix Ins. Co. 4 Binn
445, and Rhinelander vs. The Pennsylvania Ins. Co. 4 Cra. 45,
do not affect the question of an assignment, by construction of
the Act of Bankruptcy-and that is the only question. The
sovereign grant was appropriated by treaty between the two
nations. It was distributable by the United States. Similar
claims have been settled with the Republic of Colombia, and
.are pending against France, Naples, and Denmark. The opposite argument has already transferred them in all cases of
bankruptcy, by an unsuspected operation of law, constructively
drawn from an expired Act of Congress; which argument, in
like manner, has disposed of all the pensions or gratuities'yet
to be gra ted by'our government to the officers of the revolution. They have all changed hands, unconsciously to the owners, who are petitioning, not for themselves, but the assignees
of their creditors, in all instances of bankruptcy or insolvency.
Can such an operation of law be possible or tolerable? Was
such the intention of the framers of the Act of Congress, to
establish an uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the
United States? If so, and by dint of successful hostilities, a
century hence, the -laims on England, whicH have been relinquished by treaty, should be revived and acknowledged, their
indemnity, if paid, will belong to assignees, not to sufferers.
That the partigs in this instance never thought of such result,
has been shown. If Congress, nevertheless, so enacted it,
such enactment, it has also been shown, transcends the English bankrupt statutes, and contravenes all the established and
familiar principles of the common law. It may be added. that

VOL. L

Dd

210

°SUPREME COURT

(dorpegys et al. vs. Vasse.)
the French, it is believed also the Dutch, and all other bankrupt systems, are the same. By the French, the things assigned, are goods, money, furniture, effects, and choses in action.
Code civ. Commerce, Liv. 3. 'it. prem. De la Faillite, sec. 9. No
where do possibilities, contingencies, mere rights of action for
torts, or demands for unliquidated damages, pass from bankrupts or insolvents to their assignees. The American adjudications Are uniform and strong in their current to that conclusion. 2 DaL 213; Shoemaker vs. Keeley. 4 Serg. 4- Rawl.
28; Soriimer vs. Wilt. 9 Serg. 4- Rawl. 48-9; North vs. Turner. 1S Serg. ,. Rawl. 54; O'Donnel vs. Seybert. 1 Wash.
C. C. Rep. Is; Dusar vs. Murgatroyd. 3 Day, 272; Bird vs.
V1ark. 2 TPash. C. C. Rep. 406; Krumbhaar vs. Burt. The
last case is in point; is a stronger case than the present; and
has been acknowledged by the community as the settled law
in Pennsylkania, for the last twenty years. To inquire whether
the possibility of Vasse's recovery, would, in case of his death,
have-passed by will, or in course of administration, is but petitioing the principle in contest. Even conceding the affirmgtive, does not affect the question which depends on the construction of the Act of Congress; but it would be wrong to
concede it against the authority of Preston, the case in sr,
cond Swanston, and the case of Krumbhaar vs. Burt.
Mr. Justice STORY dd.'vered the opinion of the Court.This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Ambrose Vasse,
in the Circuit Cpurt. for the district of Pennsylvania, to recover from the plaintiffs in error, (who were defendants in the
Court below,) a certain sum of money, received by them under the following circumstances
Previous to the year 1802, Vasse was an underwriter on va-,
rious vessels and cargoes, the property of citizens of the United Stares. which.were captured, and carried into the ports of
Spain and her dependencies, and abandonments were made
thereof to Vasse, by the owners, and he paid the losses arising therefrom, prior to the year 1802. Vasse became embarrassed in his affairs, and his creditors proceeded against him,
as a bankrupt; under the Act of Congress of 4th April 1800,
ch. 19. An assignment was made accordingly to Jacob Shoemaker, (who is deceased,) and the defendants, Comegys and
Pettit, who proceeded to take upon themselves the duties of
assigoces, and have eyer since continued to perform the same.
Vasse w.s discharged, under the commission; and his certificate of discharge bears date the 28th of May 1802.. In the
year 1824, the sum of 8846 dollars 14 cents, was receivea by
the defendants from the Treasury of the United States; beikig
the sum awarded:-by the commissioners sitting at Washington.

JANUARY TERM, 182.

.11

(Comnegys et al. vs. Vasse.)
under the treaty with Spain, which ceded Florida to the United States, dathd 22d of February 1819, on account of the captures and losses aforesaid. On the 9th of December 1823,
Vasse filed a bill in equity in 'he Circuit Court of th6 district
of Columbia; which is in the case; upon which it seems no
final proceedings were had on the merits. Under the commission of bankruptcy, Vasse- mad6 a return of his effects to the
commissioners; which is in the case.
Upon these facts, a general verdict was found for the plaintiT, Vasse, for the.sum of 8846 dollars 14 cents, subject to the
opinion of the Court, with liberty for either party to turn the
same into a special verdict; and the Circuit Court gave judgment upon the facts in favour of the original defendant. The
present is a writ of error, brought for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of that judgment.
Three questions have been argued at the bar.-I. Whether
the award of the commissioners, under the treaty with Spain,
directing the money to be paid to the defendants, as assigne&b
of Vasse, (which is assumed to be the true state of the fact,)
is conclusive, upon the rights of Vasse; so as to prevent his
recovery in the present action. 2. If not, whether the abandonment of the v:essels and cargoes to him, as underwriter, by
the owners, and his payment of the losses, entitled him'to the
compensation awarded, independent of his bankruptcy. S. If
so, then, whether his right and title to'the compensation, passed by the assignment of 'the commissioners of bankruptcy, to
"the defendants, as his assignees, by the true intent and terms
of the Bankrupt Act of 1800, ch. 19.
1.As to the first point.1. The treaty with Spain, of the 22d of February 1819, was
satified on the 18th of February 1821, by the government of the
United St--tes. In the 9th article it provides, thai the high"
contracting parties "reciprocally renounce all claims for dawiages or injuries, which they themselves, as well as their re,pective citizens and subjects may havd suffered, until the time
of signing this treaty;" and then proceeds to enumerate, in separate clauses, the injuries to which the renunciation extends.
..The 1 th article provides, that the United States, exonerating
Spain from all demands in future, on account of the claims o
rheir citizens, to which the renunciations herein contained, extend,, and considering them entirely eancelled; undertake to
make satisfaction for the same, to an amount not exceeding five
millions of dollars. To ascertain the full amount and validity
of these claims, a conimission, to consist of three coiniis.
sioners, &c., shall be appointed, &c., and within the space of
three years from the time of their first meeting, shall "receive.
eramnhr. and deride upon the aimonf and rulfiity of all edains

2l

SUPREME COURT

(Cornegys et aL vs. Vasse.)
included within the, descriptions above mentioned." The remaining part of the article isnot material to be mentioned.
It has been justly remarked, in the opinion of the learned
Judge who decided this cause in the Circuit Court; that it does
not appear, from the statement of facts, who were the persons
who presented or litigated the claim before the Board of Commissioners; nor whether Vasse himself was before the board;
nor who were the parties ,to whom, or for whose benefit, the
award was made. We do not think that the fact is material,
upon the' view which we take of the authority and duties of
the commissioners. The object of the treaty was to invest the
commissioners with full power and authority t6 receive, examine, and decide upon the amount and validity of the asserted
claims upon Spain, for damages and injuries. Their decision.
within the scope of this authority; is conclusive and final. If
they pronounce the claim valid or invalid, if they ascertain thamount, their award in the premises is not re-examinable. The
parties must abide by it, as the decrce of a competent tribunal
of exclusive jurisdiction.' A rejected claim cannot be brought
again under review, in any judicial tribunal; an amount once
fixed, is a final ascertainment of the damages or injury. This
is the obvious purport of the language of the treaty. But it
does not necessarily or naturally follow, that this authority so
delegated, includes the authority to adjust all conflicting rights
of different citizens to the fund so awarded. The commissionr
ers are to look to the original claim for damages and injuriesx
against Spain itself, and it is wholly immaterial for this purpose, upon whom it may, in the intermediate time, have devolved; or who was the original legal, as contradistinguished
from the equitable owner, provided he was an.American citizen. If the claim was to be allowed as against Spain, the pre-*
-ent ownership, of it, whether in assignees or personal representatives, or bonafide purchasers, was not necessar~y to be ascertained, in order to exercise their functions in the fullest
manner. Nor could they be presumed to possess the means of
exercising such a broader jurisdiction, with due justice and effect. They had no authority to compel parties, asserting conflictihg interests, to appear and litigate before them, nor to
summon witnesses to establish or repel such interests; and under such circumstance%, it cannot be presumed, that it was the
intention of either government, to clothe them with an authority so summary and conclusive, with'means so little adapted
to the attainment of the ends of a substantial justice. The validity and amoutnt of the claim being once ascertained by their
award, the fundmight well be permitted to pass iito the hands
of any claimant; and his own rights, as well as those of all others,
who asserted A title to the fund, be left to tie ordinary course

JANUARY TERIM, 1828.
(Comegys et al. vs. Vasse.:)
of judicial proceedings in- the established Cofirts, wherel redress could be administered according to th&iiature and extent
of the rights or equities of all the parties., 'We are therefore
of opinion, that the award of the commissioners, in whafever
form made presents no bar to-the action, if the plaintiff is entitled
to the money awarded by the commissioners. The cage, of
Campbell ts. Mullett, 2 Swanston's Rep. 551, is distingui~hable. The claim in that case had been laid before the commisaioners,.and rejected by them, on the ground that the partywhs
ilien enemy; and if'so, he certainly did not come into the purview of the treaty. It was not pretended, that-the party had
any title to the indemnity, unless it could -be deenaed partner.
ship property, and, as a partner, he was entitled. to share-in it.
The Court considered that it-was not partnership propertyin
which he had.a title; -that his claim to any portion of it had
been rejected,, upon the ground, that ;uch claim was not within
the treaty; and the indemnity had been granted to the other
partners, for their shares only, of the joint property, and they
took no more'than their own shares. The Court then procee'ded, upon the ground, that there neither was an original, nor a
derivative title, td the indemnity, in theparty now seekiig -to
set it up. If an assignment had been.shown from them to
him, of their own interest in the claim o.r award, before 'or after it was made, thd case might have admitted of a very different consideration. Whatever, therefore, might be the authority of that case upon general principles; upon which itis.
unnecessary-to paas any opinion; it is inapplicable to the pre
senit.
2. The next question is not noticed in the opinion of the.
Circuit Court, turns upon the nature and effectof- an abandonment, for a total loss to the, underwriters.' :Much argument hah"been employed, and many authorities introduced,.
to prove what rights and interests, possibilities and expec.taucies, may or hnay not pais by assignment; wedo not thinkit,
7tecessary to revie*-.these authorities, or the prinHuiles-ponwhich they depend, upon the prescnt octasion. In general, it
it may be affirmid, that mere personal tortsiwhich die with the
part', and do not survife to his personal representative, are not
capable of passing by assignment'; and that vested rights ad
rep~am~d in re, p6ssibilities coupled with an interest, and claim.
growipg out of, and adhering to property, may pass by assignment. ' But the material consideration here, is, whether upon
the principles of the law merchant, the right, title, intei est or
possibility, (call it which you mayf,) to the indemnity awarded
in this case, did not pass b the abandonment to Vasse.,
" We d6 not think, that upon'an examination of the doctrines
of insurance. ihere is any diffriflty in this part of the. case. It

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. vs. Vasse.)
-does not appear on the record, whether there was, in this instance, any formal instrument of abandonment or not, nor is it.
material, for the law gives to the act of abandonment, when accepted, all the effects, which the most accurately drawn assignment would accomplish. By the act of abandonment, the insured renounces and yieldslup to the underwriter all his right,
title, and claims, to what may be saved; and leaves it to him
to make the most of it, for his own benefit. The underwriter
then stands in the place of the insured, and becomes legally entitled to all that can be rescued from destruction. This is the
language of the elementary writers, and is fully borne out by
Mr. Marshall and Mr. Park, in their treatises on insurance.
Mar. onIns. B. 1 a14. Parkon Ins. ch. 9,p. 228. 979. "Where,
(says Mr. Marshall) as in case of capture, the thing insured,
and every pait of it, is completely gope out of the power of the
insured, it is just and proper, that he should recover at once,
as for a total loss, and leave the spes recuperandi to the insurer;
who will have the benefit of a recapture, or of any other acciMr. Park uses
dent, by which the thing may be recovered."
equally strong language-he says "the insured has a right to
call upon the underwriter for a total loss, and of course to abandon, as soon as he hears of such a calamity havinglappened;
.his claini to an indemnity not being at all suspended, by the
chance of a future recovery of part of the property lost; because
by the abandonment, that chance devolves upon the underwriters." It is very clear, that neither-of these learned writers meant
to confine these remarks to cases, where the specific property
itself, or its proceeds, were restored; for the whole current of
theirreasoning, in the context, goes to show,that whatever may be
afterwards recovered or received, whether in the course of jaidicial proceedings or otherwise, as a compensation for the loss,
bel6ngs to the underwriters; and for this purpose, they refer
to the case of Randall vs. Cochran,'(1 Vez. 98.) before Lord
Hardwicke, where this very point was adjudged. In that case,
the king had granted letters of reprisal against the Spaniards,
for the benefit of his subjects,din consideration of the losses
which they had sustained by unjust captures, and he appointed
commissioners io distribute the produce of these reprisals
among the sufferers; and the commissioners would not suffer
the underwriters, but only the owners, to make claim for the
losses; although the owners were already satisfied for their loss,
by the underwriters. Lord Hardwicke decreed, that the owner
should account for the same to the underwriter; and said, "1the
person who originally suatained the loss, was the owner, but
after satisfaction made to him, the insurer. No doubt, but from
that time, as to the goods themselves, if restored in specie, or
compensation made for thcm, the insured stood as a trustee for

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

215

vs. Vasse.)
(Comegys et'al.
the insurer, iii proportion to what he paid, although the commissioners did right to avoid being entangled in accounts, and,
in adjusting the proportion between them. Their commission
was limited in time; they saw who was owneZ; nor was it material to whom he assigned his ihterest, as it was in effect after
satisfaction made." This 4ase reflects no inconsiderable light
upon the point already discussed, as to the conclusiveness of
the award of the commissioners. But it is decisive, that thv
assignment by abandonment, is competent not only to pass
the property itself, or its proceeds, if resto-red, after an unjust"
capture, but also any compensation awarded by way of indemnity therefor. The case before Lord Hardwicke, was the
stronger, because the indemnity was awarded to the party by
his own sovereign, and not by the sovereign of the captors.
'Mr. Marshall and Mr. Park manifestly contemplate the case
as establishing the principle, that any inderhnity, however arising, is a trust for the underwriters, after they have paid the loss.
Parkon Ins. ch. 8,p. 929. Afar. on Ins. B. 1,ch. 14,§ 4.
The case of Gracie vs. The New-York Insurance Company,
(8 Johns. R. 237,) recognises the same principle, in its full extent.. That was a case of abandonment after a capture, and
where there had been a final condemnation, not only by the
Courts in France, but an express confirmation of the condemnation by the sovereign himself. One question was, whether
the jury were at liberty to deduct from the total loss;the value
of the Vpes recuperandi. The Court held that they *ere not.
Mr. Chief Justice Kent, in delivering the opinion of the Court,
said; "if France should, at any future period, agree to, and
actually make compensation for the capture and condemnation
in question, the government of the United States, to whom th4
compensation would, in the first instance, be payable, would
become trustee for the party having the equitable title to the
reimbursement; and this would 'clearly be the defendants [the
underwriters,] if they should pay'the amoupt, cc." The case
ot Watson vs. The Insurance Company of North America, (1
B'inn. R. 47,) proceeds upon the same principles.- It admits
that the spes recuperandt passes by an abandonment to the underwriter; and the question there was, whether its value, when
not abandoned, was to be deducted from the totalloss. 'We
consider it, then, dlear, upon authority, that the right to the
compensation in this case, was in its nature 'assignable, and
passed by abandonment to Vasse; and upon principle, we
should arrive at the same conclusion.' The right to indemni.
ty for an unjust capture, whether against the captors or the
sovereign; whether remediable in his own Courts, or ,byhis
own extraordinary interposition and grants upon private petition, or upon public negotiation, is a right attached to the

216

SUPREME COURT.
(Coiegys et al. =. Vasse.)

ownership of the property itself, and passes by cession to the
use of the ultimate sufferer. If so assignable to Vasse, it was
equally, in its o wh nature, capable of assignment to others; and
the bnly remaining inquiry would be, whether it had so passed
by assignment from him.
The case of Campbell vs. Mullet; (2 Swanston, 551,) already
adverted to, 'has been pressed upon the attention of the Court
as indicating, certainly not as deciding, a doctrine somewhat
different. In that case,'the compensation had been awarded
by the commissioners under the British' treaty of 1794,to American citizens, for unjust captures made by British cruisers;
and there bad been condemnations by the highest appellate
Courts of -prize. One argument was, that the compensation
so granted, was not to be deemed a'mere donation to the parties who received it for their own use, but an indemnity. The
Master of the Rolls, in: answer to this, said: "It is said that
the sums awarded by the commissioners arg not matter of
bounty or donation. Can they be a matter of right? What is
right
That which may be enforced in a Court of Justice.
Had the 'parties, whose property wis condemned by irrevocable sentence, any right? What they obtain after that condemnation, is not founded in right, but in policy between the nations, providing compensation to indiviauals, who have lost
property by sentences, which are thought unjust. The grounds
of relief before the commissiqners, are, the want of any redress in any niunicipal Courts. Whatever the individual-obtains, is not on the ground of right, or private property, but of
not a case
hardship and injustice. Though this, therefore, -is
of pu'e dohation, as of a gift without any thing in the nature
of a consideration, yet for the purpose of being contrasted with
property or right, it is a donation, not a restoration of a foriner right, but from a new fund, belonging to an independent
lauthority, a grant tothe sufferer for what he lost." Such is'
the language of the learned Judge, and we cannot say that the
reasoning is at all satisfactory. It is not universally, though
it may ordinarily be one test.of -right, that it may be enforced
in a Court of Justice. Claims and debts due from a sovereign, are not ordinarily capable of being so enforced. Neither
the King of Great Britain, nor the government of the United
States, is suable in he ordinary Courts of -Justice, for debts
due by either. Yet, who will doubt, that such debts are rights!
It does not follow, because an unjust sentence is ,irreversible,
that the party has lost all right to justice, or all claim, upon
principles of public law, to remuneration. With reference to
mere municipal law, he inay be without remedy; but with re:ference to principles of international law, he has a right, both
to tbe justice of his own and the foreign sovereign. The the-

JANUARY TERM, 1828,

217

(Comegys et al. vs. Vasse.)
ory, too, that an indemnification for unjust captures is to be
deemed, if not a mere deviation, as in the nature of a donation,
as contrasted with right, is not admissible. It is reasoning
against the clear text of the treaty itself. What says the treaty of 1794, § 7? That where American citizens have sustained
losses or damages, "by reason of irregular or illegal captures,
or condemnations of their vessels, or other property, under
colour of authority or commissions from His- Majesty, and
adequate compensation cannot be obtained by the ordinary
course of judicial tribunals, full and complete compensation
for the same will be made by the British government to the
said complainants." The very ground of the treaty is, that
the municipal remedy is inadequate; and that the party has a
right to compensation for illegalcaptures, by an appeal to the
justice'of the government. It was never understood, that the
case was one to which the doctrine of donation applied. The
right to compensation, in the eye of the treaty, was just as perfect, though the remedy was merely by petition, as the right
to compensation for an illegal conversion of property, in a municipal Court of Justice. The case of Randall vs. Cochran,
(1 Vez. 98,) stands upon the true ground. It considers the
right of indemnity as travelling with the ,right of property. In
that case it might have been said, in answer to the claims of
the underwriters, that they had no title, because it was a case
of donation by the crown, out of funds provided by reprisals.
So, perhaps, the commissioners thought; but Lord Hardwicke
decided otherwise. There cannot be a doubt, that if the party
injured had died before or after the treaty was made, and compensation had been subsequently decreed, it would have been
assets, and distributable as such, in the hands of his executors
and administrators. The remarks which have been made upon
this case, are equally applicabl-, to the provisions for indemnity, under the treaty with Spaih. It recognised an existing
right to compensation, in the aggrieved parties; and did not, in
the most remote degree, turn upon the notion of a donation or
gratuity. It was denlanded by our government as matter of
right, and as such it was granted by Spain.
We may now come to the point, which indeed is the Only
one of any intrinsic difficulty in the cause-whether the right,
so vested in Vasse, to compensation, passed, under the bankruptcy assignment, to his assignees? That this is a question
free of doubf, will not be affirmed by any person who has thoroAighly examined it, or read with care the elaborate opinion of
the Court below. The true solution of it must be found in a
just exposition of the object, intent, and language of the Sta:
tute of Bankruptcy of 1800, ch. 19. The Act begins by an
enumeration of the persons who are liable, to be declared bankVOL. I.
Ee

218

SUPREME COURT.
(Comegys et al. va. Vasse.)

rupts, ad among them are "underwriters or marine insur.
ers." This plainly shows the sense of the legislature, that
such persons might, by the ordinary course of their business,
be reduced to insolvency, and be justly placed Within the beneficial operation of such a law. It tends also to the presunption, that it might have been the intent of the legislature, that
the rights devolved upon them, from the nature of the losses
for which they were liable, so far as under any circumstances
they might or could be valuable rights, should be available as
a fund for the benefit of their creditors, in case of their bankruptcy. As the legislature meant to exonerate the underwriter from all future liability for his debts; it would seem natural
that the claims abandoned to him, which might constitute the
whole of his effective estate, slould be vested in his assignees,
for the benefit of his creditors. If he possessed claims by
abandonment, to the amount of 100,000 dollars, which might,
by future events, be, rendered nore or less productive, and
which might be, (as they have often been,) saleable and transferrible in the market; such funds, present 6r expectant, might
well be deemed within the legislative policy, and fit to pass to
the creditors by assignment. It might otherwise happen, that
large recoveries might ultimately vest in the bankrupt, for his
own exclusive benefit, upon rights pre-existent, and vested
at the time of his bankruptcy. If such a course of legislation
would not be unnatural, let us next see what is the precise language of the statute itself. Tlle fifth section declares, that it
shall be the duty of the commissioners, after the party has
been declared a bankrupt, "to take into their possession all
the estate, real and personal, of every nature and description,
to which the bankrupt may be entitled, either in law or equity,
in any manner whatsoever, &c.; and-also to take into their possession, and secure, all deeds and books of accounts, papers and
writings, belonging to the bankrupt; and shall cause the same
to be safely kept, until assignees shall be chosen, or appointed."3

These words are certainly very general and comprehensive.
"All the estate, real and personal, of every nature -and description, in law or equity," are broad enough to cover every description of vested right and interest, attached to and growing
out of property. Under such words, the whole property of a
testator would pass to his devisee. Whatever the administrator would take, in case of intestacy, would seem capable of
passing by sic.h words. It will not admit of question, that the
rights devolved upon Vasse, by the abandonment, could, in
case of his death, have passed to his personal representative;
and when the money was received, be distributable, as assets.
Why then shoukl it not bQ assets in the hands of the assignees?

JANUARY TERM,, 1828.

219

(Comegy. et al. vs. Tasse.)
Considering it in the light in which Lord Hardwicke viewed
it, as an equitable trust in the money; it is still an interest, or
at all events, a possibility coupled with an interest. Besides,
"all deeds, books, accounts, papers, and writings of the bankrupt," are to be taken into possession. 'Now the abandonment, and other documents connected with it, fall precisely
within these terms; and as we shall immediately see, whateve
is taken possession of by the commissioners, is to be passed
to the assignees. The sixth section provides "that the commissioners shall assign, transfer, or deliver over, all and singular the said bankrupt's estate and effects aforesaid, with i'al/
muniments and evidences thereof," to the assignees so chosen.
And for the most part, the words "estate and effects" are
used throughout the Act, as descriptive of the property passing
under the assignment. The 11th, 12th, and 13th-sections of
the Act, respect more particularly the transfer of the real es-'
tate, of the mortgage , and of the debts of the bankrupt. It is
only necessary to say, that they contain no language abridging
the proper inferences deducible from the language of the fifth
section.
The 18th section contains provisions respecting the surrender and examination of the bankrupt, and are very material. It
provides, that upon such examination, he shall "1fully and truly
disclose and discover all his or her effects and estate, real and
personal, and how and in what manner, and to whom and upon what consideration, and at what time or times, he or she
bath disposed of, assigned, or transferred, any of his or her
goods, ware!, or merchandise, moneys, or other effects and
estate; and of all books, papers, and writings, relating there-'
unto, of which he or she was possessed; or in which he or she
was in any ways interested or entitled, or which any person or
persons shall then have, or shall have had in trust for him or her,
or for his or her use, at any time before or after the issuing of
the said commission; or whereby such bankrupt, or his or her

family, then hath or may have, or epect any profit, possibility of
profit, benefit, or advantage wiasoever, 'c." It then goes on further to provide, that the bankrupt shall, upon such examination, execute in due form of law, such conveyance, assurance,
and assignment, ofhis or her estate, whatsoever and wheresoever, as shall be deemed and directed by the commissioners to
vest the same in' the" assignees;" and also requires the bankrupt
to deliver up " all books, papers, and writings relating thereunto," which are in his possession, custody, or power, at the
time of the examination: upon his default in these particulars,
he is deemed a fraudulent bankrupt, and deprived of a right to
a certificate of discharge, and subjected to severe punishments.
If there were any doubt upon the meaning of the language of

990

SUPREME COURT.

(Comegys et al. w. Vasse.)
the fifth section, we think it is cleared up and illustrated by
that of the present. Here, the words "profit, possibility of profit, benefit, or advantage whatsoever," are used, and show that
mere interests in presenti, and capable of present enjoyment,
were not alone within the scope of the legislative enactments,
but also all such interests, or possibilities of interest, as might
thereafter beneficially arise from present vested rights. It extends to such effects and estate, "whereby the bankrupt then
hath, or may have or expect any profit." It has been suppdsed, that this clause looks solely to property, which was not capable of assignment, at the time of the bankruptcy, because not
then vested; inasmuch as the bankrupt himself, and not the
commissioners, is required to make an assignment of it.. If
this were so, it would not affect the present case, because we
are of 'opinion, that the claim under consideration, was corhpletely vested in right and interest in Vasse, at the time of his
bankruptcy. We think, however, that this clause does not jastify so narrow an interpretation. The disclosure is required of
estate and effects, in which the bankrupt was interested, as well
before as after the issuing of the commission; and the bankrupt
is required to execute conveyances, not of such estate and effects merely, as accrued after the commission, but of, his estate, "whatsoever and wheresoever." The object of the provision was tQonake such conveyances auxiliary to, and confirmatory of the assignments made by the commissioners; and we
believe, that in practice, it was so generally understood and acted on, while the statute was in force. The 50th section of the
Act, has been supposed to demonstrate the correctness of the
construction of the statute contended for by the counsel for the
original plaintiff. It declares "that if any estate, real or personal, shall descend, revert to, or become vested in, any person,
after -e or she shall be declared a bankrupt, and before he or
she shall o1tain a certificate, &c. all such estate shall, by virtue of this Act; be vested in the said commissioners, and shall
be by them assigned and conveyed to the assignees, &c.. This
section plainly refers to estate to which the bankrupt had no
right or title whatever, in law or equity, vested in interest or
in possession, at the time of his bankruptcy. The cases put,
are of property descending, reverting to, or becoming vested
in the bankrupt. In respect to a descent cast, after the bankruptcy, it is manifest, that nothing could pass by any antecedent assignment of-the commissioners.
The heir, during the lifetime of his ancestor, has no right,
claim, title, or interest, in the ancestral estate. It is a mere
naked expectancy, liable to be defeated at the will of the ancestor at all times; and in no just sense, a possibility of interest, a right in the thing itself. The other words, "6reverting

JANUARY TERM, 18fI8.

21

(Comegys.et aL vs. Vasse.)

to, or become vested" in the bankrupt, require a like inter"pretation. They allude to cases where the party had nothing
vested in him, as a subsisting interest, either absolute or contingent, in esse or infuturo, until after the bankruptcy: and
when any such interest falls in befoe the 'certificate of discharge, the commissioners, and not the bankrupt, -are to assign it; a circimstance which demonstrates that no stress ought
to be laid upon that part of the 18th section, already alluded to,
respecting a conveyance by the bankrupt himself; except as a
confirmation, and not as a principal assurance. It seems to us
then, that the 50th section aids, rather than shakes the interpretation of the statute, which has been already announced.
'It applies to no possibility of profit, benefit, or advantage, vested
at the time of the bankruptcy, (as the present case is;) but to interests accruing to the party for the first time, dejure as well
as de-facto, after the bankruptcy. This view of the matter renders it unnecessary to consider, whether there is any substantial difference between the English statutes of bankruptcy and
our 6wn, on this subject; and of course, in the authorities applicable to it. Our opinion proceeds upon the purview and,
objects, and on the terms of our own statute; and we are accordingly of opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit Court ought
to be reversed, and a judgment entered in favour of the original
defendants. It is to be understood, that upon the last point,
this is the opinion of the majority of the Court.
The cause must be remanded, with directions to enter a
judgMent accordingly, for the original defendants.
This cause tame on, &c. on consideration whereof, It is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said Circuit Court, in this cause, be and the same is hereby reversed and annulled-and that a judgment be entered in the
suit, in favour of the plaintiffs In error, Cornelius Comegys
and Andrew Pettit; and the cause remanded to said Circuit
Court, with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs in
error in this Court, Cornelius Comegys and Andrew Pettit,
accordingly.

