SUPREME COURT.

. J MAXWELL, AND GEORGE WATERS, EXECUTORS OF JOHN PRAY, DECEASED, APPELLAk-S, VS.
GEORGE G. BELT, TRUSTEE, AND JAMES P. HEATH, PRO. AMI.

ANN PRAY, EX EcUTIX,

The testator in his will says, "wmhereas my will is lengthy, and it is possible
I may have committed some error or errors, Fthereforeauthorize and em.
power, asfully as I could do myself if living, a majority of my acting ex.
ccutbrs, my wife to have a voice as executrix, to decile in all cases, in
case of any dispute or contention: whatever they determine is my intentiQn, shall be final and conclusive, without any resoit toa Court of Jus.
tice." Clauses of this description have always received *tch judicial construction, as would comport with the reasonable intentio of the testator.
16791

Even where the forfeiture ofa legacy has been declared tobe the penalty of
not conforming to the injunction of a will, Courts of Justice have considered it, if the legacy be not given over, rather as an effort*, to effect a
desired object, by intimidation, than a4 concluding the rights of the par.
ties. 'If an unreasonable use be made of such a power so given in a will,
one notfqreseen, aid which could not be intended by the testator, it has
been considered as a case, in which the general power of Courts of Justice to decide on the iights of pirties, ought to be exercised. {6801
There cannot be such a construction given to, such a clause in a testator's will,
as will prevent a party who conceives himself injured by the construction,
from submitting his case--o a Court of Justice. A Court must decide
whether the construction of the will adopted by those who are named is
the right construmction, or the grossest injustice might be done. {680}
Where a legacy for which suit is instituted, is given jointly to several per.
sons in different families, and the legatees take "equally, the number in
feither family being ascertained by the will, all the claimants ought to be
brought before the Court. The right of each inaividual depends on the
numjer who are entitled, and this nufnber is a fact, which must be in.
quired into, before the amount to which any one is entitled-can be fixed. If
this fact were to be examined'in every case, it would subject the executors to be harasseffby a multiplicity of suits, and if it were to be fixed.by
the first decree, would not bind persons who were not parties. 1681} ,

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States fol
the District of South Carolina.
The appellees, complainants in the Court below, on behalf of

Jane Heath, the wife of James P. Heath; and of her children,
filed a bill inthe Chancery side, of the Circuit Court of the
United States'for the District of South Carolina, against Aim
Pray, ekecutrix,' J.J. -Maxwell, and George Waters, executors of the last will of John Pray deceased, for the recovery of'
a legacy to which Sane Heath was entitled under the will.
The clauses of the- will of John Pray,prought under the notice and cbnsiderati6u. of the Court, and exhibited by the r6cord were:

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

671

(Pray et al.vs. Belt et a.)

I Item 51. Whereas Ihold ten bonds, given by John J. Maxwell, payable by ten instalments, the first on the tenth of January next, and the others on the tenth of January bi each year
after. It is my will, and I direct, that'the bonds payable tenth
of January, eighteen hundred and twenty, eighteen hundred
and twenty-one, and eighteen hundred and twenty-two, say the
three first, shall be applied in aid of the payment of my just
debts, if any due,, and in the paymeni of the le'gacies by me
left. It is my request thatmy executors do also apply all funds
which I may possess at my decease, as also dividends on all my
bank stock, (except that part of'dividends which I have directed
to go immediately to sdme of my legatees,) and. also. to apply
all moneys due to me, as soon as collected, and alsb all .rents
and crops of rice and cotton; first to pay any debts, and then
legacies, any heretofore left,*or which I may hereafter leave to
be paid. It is rmiy will, and I do direct, thatmy executors do
pay up the one-half of all the cash legacies by me left to my
relations., out of the first funds they c~h command from my
estate, except those I may have directed to lbe paid immediately; and .after they have paid the one-half to my relations, thereafter it is my will that they do pay up in equal proportions,
agreeably to sums. left, td all my other leggtees; and be it understood, and it is my will and intention, that after they have
paid the one-half, to my relations, that they will continue to
pay them the other half in equal proportions" with my other legatees; my object and intention is, to place them on the samie
footing with my other legatees, -after the payment of ofie-half
to my said relations. It is my will and request, that my executors do pay all my debts and legacies as soon as possible after
my death; but be it explicitly auld plainly understood, that no
interest whatever is to be allowed on any legacy by me left to
any one of my legatees, as in all probability the resources and
funds of my estate will be equal to the payment of my debts
and legacies before the three bonds mentioned of John J. Maxwell may fall due and becollected. In case all debts and legacies can be paid before the three aforesaid bonds can be collected, then, and in that case, whatever balance may remain to
be collected on the three aforesaid bonds, principal ,ind interest, it is my will, that.the same shall be equally divided as
collected, between the following persons, share and share
alike: To my executors in trust, for the use and benefit of my
aunt Turpin, my uncle's present wife; it is my intcntibn to
keep it from being subject to my uncle' debts, that I ihave it
in trust; in case of no risk,-my executors will pay it over to
my aunt. My god-daughter, Mary Jane Pray Hines, wife of
Lewis Hines.- The children of Thomas Mann, by his present
wife, as'also Ann and Jane, now in New-Providence. Any part

679,

SUPREME COURT.
(Pray et hL tw. Belt et al.)

iwhich the children of Harriet Mann, Thomas launs wife,
may be entitled to, is to be ascertained by the number she may
have. at the tipie these bonds are colte', and my executors are
read,' to pay over. In case all is no't applied on my debts and
legacies, and if Harriet hath any child after the paylnent, then
suh *childto-receive such proportion as th&other children out
of the part paid. to, such as sliv before had or ha's atthe time
the same is piaid. My executors will be governed in the distributioV, by the niumber ofchildreu garret,has ou the day they
arer-eady
make -adistribUtiow In case of any surplus left on
saldbonid-to tie
s-.id ch'lrren'p parts to be .paid to their legal
representatives, so it ip not.,their father;. (I omitted the word
Mann aftdr the words Ann and 3ane above,') and to Richard.k.
l- ireA, in trust forthi..hpliefit of Jane.-Heath,wife of James P.
Heath, and such children as she may have vhen _that surplus
may becqllected; in case.of.thee'being apy."
"It is my-wijl md I direct, that all my estate, both real and
erSonal, shalLbe kept and coitinue4 together, until all y
ust debts.
'and legacies
paid, delfs,.if any, first, and as soon
after
as possible,
tobe are
-disposed
of as hereinafter directed."
In case of accidents by fire, at ay'timebefore or-ater my
egeeutors pay rnmy
debts .and legacies' it is. my will hat my
wifVe receiVe tlle amohut of insui'ance to aid in rebuilding ; and
in case of accidents by ire on lots in Nos. 6-ant 7, before my
aebts and legacies are paid, it is my vill, in such case, thatmy
e1cutors h6d all my estate to'ether,ilntil they can add tel thougaznd- dollars. to what may -be ieceived on Ihsurauce; and they
are requested to put on .fire-proof 'building on said lots, to
both these amounts, an4 ifthese Sums are insuffickent, they are
authoilzed to raisei any bialan-e- for erecting. proper buildings,
on the credit of my -wife; this balance, if any- required, be,ii
understood jis
to-come out'of"my w fe's po'riin of my estate
left her.
•" In c~se .of !uch'an accident .if.
necessary, in order not to
delay re-building, my executorswill resort to a loan from tfe
bank br banlks. Whereas there-is no doubt big there milst be
a considerable surplus fund of my estate by debts due, or crops
oi hand, 'or near made,. after my -executors -have, paid all my
4ebt and, legacies, which. my wife will c:me in for--if n y
executors discover that by such surplus t- t the same will-not
be equal to ten thousand dollars, in that case it is.my Will, that
they coiitinue aill my estate together, until they can, make up
ten--thousand dollars; and it is my.request, that they will, as
soon as possible after raising-the aforesaid sum, proceed to put
,up fire-proof buildings on the aforesaid lots."
"Whereaa'my w4ll is lengthy, and it is possible Imay have
committed someerror or errors. I do therefore authorize and

JANUARY TERM, 1808.

673

(Fray et al. vs. Belt et al)
empower, as fully as I could do myself, if living, a majority of
my acting executors, my wife to have a voice as e
vecutri,to
decide in all cases, in case of any dispute or contention: whatever they nay determine is.my intention she be
and conenal
duaived, without any resort to a Court of Justice."
The defendants John J. Maxwell, and George M. Waters, in
their separate answers allege," That, in the month of December, in the year eighteen hundred and nineteen, the defendants,
qualified as executors of the will of John Prayf and having ascertailned that there was a sufficient sum of money to be raised
from the cropnswhich had been made that yeasr as also from
debts d thete
estt
s John Pray,
theestator on bonds
notes, and other securities, which could soon thereafter be realized to satisfy all the unpaid legacies of the :said testator,
commenced a delivery of some'portions thereof to those clainiing and entitled under the will That, in the mean tim , after
they had commenced a division of the estate of said testator,
and before its completion, to wit, on the tenth day of January
in the year eighteen -hundred and twenty, the accident ocurred,
which
had been
guarded
thecomplainant's
sixty-first item
of
the will
of said
testator,
as setagainst
forth inbythe
bill;
and the buildings on ots No. 6 and 7"were destroted by fire;
that, at the time when this event occurred, thedebts of said
testator, which were small, may have been, and as this defendant believes, were all pa d and discharged, but the legacies rnained partially unpaid and unsatisfied, although, as this defendant believes, at the time, and as previously stated in this
anoswer, there was a sufficiency of funds to be realized from the
means already pointed out, to discharge and pay the remaining
unsatisfd legacies, and which the executors, when they commenced the division of the estate, apaforeaid intended to apply to the payment of said unpaid legacies ; that, previously,
also, to the said conflagration, by which the said buildings on
lots No. 6 and 7 were destroyed, the first bond of the said John
J. M~axwell had been collected, and applied to the payment of
the debts and legacies. That the funds, which were to be realiued from the crops, bonds, and notes, as aforesaid, by the executors,- and which had been deemed adequate to the payment
of the unpaid legacies, were insufficient for that purpose, andQthe
payment of the said ten thousand dollars bequeathed to the said
Ann Pray in the said sixty-first item of said will, in the event
of the destruction of the-buildings on the said lots six and seven,
which actually occurred: that the two remaining of the three
bonds if the said John J. Maxwell, .which were directed by the
fifty-first item of the said will to be appropriated in. aid of the
payment of the said debts and legacies, were then resorted to
by the executors, from which, in addition to the available efVo. .
4Q

674

SUPRE2ME COURT.

(Pray et al. vs. Belt etal.)
fects already specified, a fund was realized equal to the payment 'of the legacies, and the sum of teft thousand dollars,
'which was appropriated to the use of said Ann Pray, as directed, in sixty-first item of said Will; that the said appropriation
of the 'two remaining bonds of the said John J. Maxwell, was
made after the division of the'estate had commenced, as already shown, but before its completion.
"That if the'estate of the said testator had been kept together,
after the conflagrati6n aforesaid, a sufficient time, funds may
have eei realized sufficient to pay all debts and legacies,. and
to zaeet the aid authorized and directed for the said Ann Pray;
but this defendant declares that it would have required the estate to have been kept together four or..fve years for this purpose, without-resorting to the said bonds; in thk mean time
the said bonds would have become due, and been realized,
the one being due-on the - day of January, eighteen hundred.
and twenty-one, and the other on the 't-day of January eighteen hundfed and twenty-two. 'That in and by the fifty-first
item of the said will, the said -bonds are expressly directed to
be app~ropriated in aid of the payment of the debts and legacies, and' oiily to 'be -distributed among' the legatees therein
named, in.
the event of th debtsand legacies being paid out
of the funds, made subject:by the will td that purpose, before

"thesaid bonds shotuld become due or could be collected. That
if the said oestate of the said testator- had been kept together
until the necessixy, finds for the relief of te said Ann Pray,
tand the payment 'of the legacies had been raised from the
annual proceeds, the benefit arising to the said Jane Heath
and her children, by receiving their 'proportion of the peal estate of said testator devised to them, must have been delayed
four or five years; whilst, by the early division of said estate,
they were greatty benefited, having realized, at that time,from,
this means three thousand -five hundred dollars., And 'this.defendant admits that the complainants have applied to the executors of said tietator on. the subject of theproportion of Jane
Heath, in said bopds, and to which. they supposed her entitled.
That the division of the estate having been commenced, and a
portion of the property delivered t6 the deviseesand legatees, and
a fund sufficient to pay the legaciessand.whieh was-to come into
thi hands of the executors, having been reserved for that purpose,
they considered themselves bound in justice to the legate6s and
devisees, vho had not received their proportion, of the estate,
to proceed in the completion of the'division of the estate; and
therefore conceived the, estate, so far as regarded their power
to continue it together until the ten thousand dollars could be
aised to -relieve the said Ann Pray, from the awaual pyoceeds,
as having been ineffect divided."

JANUARY TERM, 182.

675

(Pray etal. m. Belt 6tal.)
2. No answer to the bill of the appellees was filed by Mrs.
Pray.
The case was heard on the bills and answers, and the Circuit ,Court determined, that the executors had misapplied the
proceeds of the bonds of J. J. Maxwell, on which the legacies
claimed were charged; and that Mrs. Pray would have to refund to the value of the residue bequeathed to her, and, rateably, also, according to the interest and income of the property specifically bequeathed to her. An order of reference was
made, and thereupon, the master was ordered to make certain
statements of the condition of the estate, and of other facts necessary to a final decree.
These reports having been afterwards made by the master,
the Circuit Court, on the 9th of May, 1826,.made the follow,
,ing decree:
"This cause came on to beheard owthe master's report, pursuant to a reference at the last ierm, on the following points ":
1st. A statement of the debts due by the testator.-- 2dly.' A"
statement of the pecuniary &nd other legacies, and how and
when paid. Sdly. Of the funds applicable to-the-debts and legacies. 4thly. Of the receipts aid expenditures of the executrix and executors. -5thly.. Of the ,value of the residue bequeathed to Mrs. Pray. 6thly.. Of the value or amount of the
income which the estate would have produced, .ha it'been
hept together specifically. Of the several amounts. claimed
by these complainants, in behalf of those whom they represent
as legatees, and his own views of the correctness of those
claims, with reference to the principles' on -which they are calculated. And he, the said master, having dul, made and submitted his report upon all the matters so referred to him, anl
it appearing from said report, that the proportionof the funds
of the said testator, to which, under his will, the complainants
are entitled, amounts to the sum of twelve thousand one hunL
dred and eleven dollars, as by reference to said report of file in
the registry of this Court will more fully appear.
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that George M. Waters, and Jno. J. Maxwell, executors, and Ann Pray, executrix
do -pay to the said complainants, the- sum of twelve thousana
one hundred and eleven dollars. AMd it is further ordered,
decreed and adjudged, that the said sum, when collected by
force and virtue of this decree, be paid into the hands of the
clerk of this.Court, and on the receipt of the said sum, he'is
hereby ordered and -directed, so soon a the same can be. effected, to invest the. said sum in the purchase of United States'
stock, or- bank, stock of the United States' Bank, as may appear most advantageous to the complainaiks; and it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed., that the defendants do pay thie

SUPREME COURT.
(Pray et al. vs. Belt et al.)

costs of tins suit, and interest on the principal sum decreed,
to be computed from the service of this decree."
" WILLIAM JOHNSON-'

By agreement of counsel, a part of the master's report was
afterwards corrected, and the number of persons among whom
the amount of John J. Maxwell's bonds were to be distributed,
being accurately stated, the sum to which the complainants
below were entitled, according to the principles of the decree
of the Circuit Court, was found to be 89909, instead of 912,i11,
as stated in the' report.
The case was argued by Mr. Berrien for the appellants, and
by Mr. Key for the appellees.
The following points were made by the appellants:
1. There. is no sufficient evidence, on which to found a decree for any specific sum.
2. The necessary parties were not before the Circuit Court.
S. The proceeds of the three bonds of John J. Maxwell,
were well applied to the payment of debts and legacies, and
among others, to'the payment of the contingent legacy to Ann
Pray.
4. The decision of the executors, is the will of the testator,
by the express provision of'the will; and cannot be questioned
by the legatees..
Mr. Chief Jastice M1AtSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.-,-'

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court. for the district
of Georgia,.by George G. Belt, the trustee for Jane Heith and
her children, who are infants, and by James P. Heath, husband
of the said Jane, and father of her children, against the executors of John Pray, deceased, and Ann Pray, his widow, to recover a legacy bequeathed to them and others, by the said John
Pray,
The executors resist the demand, on the 'principle that the
bonds for which the suit is instituted, were required to pay the
debts and legacies due from the testator, and to raise the
10,000 dollars to replace the buildings on lots 6 and 7, which
were consumed by fire. They also contend, that their testator
has submitted the construction of his will, absolutely, to their
judgment, and that their decision against the claim of the legatees, is final.
The Circuit Court established the claim of the plaintiffs, and
de~reed to them the proportion of the .three bonds, which was
estimated to be their part.
From this decree, the executors have appealed to this Court.
In argument, several formal objections have been taken to
the decree, which will be considered. The question on the

JANUARY TERM, 1V8

677

ra. Belt et al.)
(Pray ct al.
merits, depends on the construction of the wilL The will is
very inartificially drawn. It is in some parts rendered inore
confused than it would otherwise be, by a r'ecurrence in different places to the same subject. In item 51, he -ays, in the first
instance, that the three bonds which are the subject of contrdversy, " shall b6 applied in aid of the- payment of his. just
debts, if any due, Pad in the payment'of -the legacies by him
left." He adds, -It is ray request, that my execiutors do'aso
apply all funds *hich I may possess at my.decease,. as also 'dividends on all my bank stock, (except that part of dividends which I have directed t9 go immediately to some of my
legatees,) and also to apply all moneys due to me, as soon as
collected, and.also all rents and crops of rice and cotton, first
to -pay any debts, and then legacies," Scc.
The language of -this part of the will, in- relation" to, these
bonds, shows an intention to apply them to debts and legpcies,
if necessary; but indicates, we think, the expectation' that it
would not be necessary. They are to-be applied In aid -of the
payment of his just debts, and in the payment of legacies.
They are then to aid another fund. That fund .is afteryrards
described in terms, wbich show it to be a large ona. Thereis
some reason to suppose, from this.part of the will, that thebe
three bonds were not comprehended ifiit, because the testator
introduces the enunciation of its items, by saying i it- is mny
request that my executors do-abso apply all funds, gc" Again,
he assignp as a reason for withholding interest from his legatees,
"that in all probability the resources 'and funds of. his estate,
will be equal to the phyment of his debts and legacies, before
the three bohds mentioned of John J.'Maxwell, may fall due'
and be collected.",
This shows, uliequivocally, the belief of the .testator, that
these bonds would not be required for the debts and legacies He
then adds, "in case all debts and legacies can be paid, before
the three aforesaid bonds can be collected, then, and in that
case, whatever balance may remain to be .collected, shall be
equally divided between the following -persons," Zcc.
This bequest does not depend on the fact, that the debts and
legacies should be actually paid,'before these three bonds were
collected, but on the sufficiency of the:fund .for the objecp.
Should the flnd be sufficient, its application must be made;.
and-whether made in fact or not, the right to the bonda vests
in the legatees
The testator then proceeds to say; "it is my will, and I direct that all my estate, both real and personal, shall be kept and
continued together, until. all my just debts and legacies are
paid."
This whole, Item, 51, shows the opinion, that the *profitsof

678

SUPREME COURT.
(pray et al. w. Belt et al.)

his estate, including dividends on his stock, added to the debts
actually due at the time, were sufficient for the payment of debts
and legacies. Yet his estate is to be kept together till they shall
be paid. The profits are df course to be applied to that object.
If this fund amounted, before the 10th day of January 1820,
when th first bond from J.'J. Maxwell fell due, to a sufficient
sum for. the payment of debts and legacies, the right of the
legatees to the th'ee bonds then vested ;--if it was not sufficient
on that day, it may be doubted, whether such part of the first
bond as was necessary for this primary object, might be brought
to its aid immediately. We suppose it might. A codicil to the
will is dated the 18th day of June 1819, and the will and codicil were proved on the 27th of the succeeding month. The executors qualified i he month of December; having ascertained, they say in their answer, the adequacy of the fund provided
for debts and legacies, tney commenced the division of the estate.
So far as the will has been considered, it is obvious that the
right of the legatees, to whom the two parts of the three first
bonds due from Maxwell were bequeathed, was vested. Their
right to the first bond may be more questionable. If part of the
fund, which was applicable in the first instance to debts and
legacies, could not be made available immediately, and the first
bond or any part of it was substituted- for debts which could
not be collected, it cannot be doubted that those debts, when
collected, ought to replace the bond so substituted. The testimony in the cause-does not show, with sufficient certainty,
how this fact stands. It is remarkable that this first bond was
applied by the executors before the 10th of January 1820, when
it became due. They state this fact in their answer. But we
are decidedly of opinion, that this precipitate appropriation of
the bond, could not affect, the rights of the parties. They
must remain, as they would have stc.od had the bond remained
uncollected, till it became payable.
The contest in this suit would either. not have arisen, or
would have been confined to the first bond, had things remained as they stood before the 10th day of January 1820. But on
that day the buildings on lots Nos. 6 and 7, were consumed by
fire.
In that event, the tdstator had directed that his executors
hould, f9r the purpose of replacing the buildings, hold all his
estate together until they can add 10,000 dollars to what may
be received 0n insurance. H-e.adds, "In case of such an acci.dent, if necessary, in order not to delay re-building, my executors will resort to a loanfrom the bank orbanks." "1Whereas
there is no doubt bt 'there must b6 a considerable surplus
fand of my estate, by debts due or crops-on hand, or near

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

679

(Pray et al. vs. Belt etal.)

made, after my executors have paid all my debts and legacies,
vwhich my wife will come in for-if my executors discover that
by such surplus that the same will not be equal to 10,000 dollars, in that i-ase it is my. will that they continue all my estate
togethcn until they can make up 10,000 dollars."
Instead of conforming to this direction of the will; instead
or kceping the estate together; the executors have applied the
renaining two bonds payable the 10th of January 1821, and the
10th of January 1822, to this objcct.
They say, that'having commenced the delivery of the estate,
before this event took place. they thought themselves bound to
complete it; and considered thcmselvcs in the same situation
as if it liad been completed before the buildings were conSumed.
Suppose this opinion to be correct, ought they not also to
have considered the bonds as delivered? This also was a speeific legacy; and after being vested, stands, we conceive, on
equal ground with other specific legacies.
These bonds do not constitute the fund on which tho testator
eharges these 10,000 dollars, in the unlooked for event that
thesurplus of his estate should notbe sufficient to raise it He
does not charge this sum on the principal, but on the profits of
his estate; and the whold is to be kept together in order tQ
raise it. It is obvious from the whole will, that these bonds do
not constitute a part of that surplus, comprehending debts;
and in this particular part of it, when he speaks of debts, it is
of debts due. No one of these bonds was due at the date'of the
-will, or of the death of the testator.
It is -then, we think, apparent, that the application of these
bonds towards raising.the sum of 10,000 dollars, was.a misapplication of assets.
If the estate had really been delivered when the event occurred, the executors ought to have retained their rights upon
it, to satisfy this contingent claim, and we presume that the
property would have been liable. tosit in the hands of devisees
and legatees.
But the plaintiffs in error oontend, that should, they have
misconstrued the will of their testator, still their xmisconstruction binds the legatees, because the testator s is: "Whereas
my will is lengthy, and it is possible I may nave committed
some error or errors. I therefore authorize and empower, as
fully as I coulcJ do myself if living, a majority of my acting executors, my wife to have a voice as executrix, to decide in all
cases, in case of any dispute or contention: whatever they determine is my intention shall be final and conclusive without
any resort to a Court of Justice."
Clauses of this description have always received such judicial

680

SUPREME COURT.

(Pray etal. vs.,Belt et aL)
construction, as would comport with the reasonable intention of
the testator.
Even when the forfeiture of the legacy has been declared to
be the penalty of not conforming to the injunction of the will,
Courts have considered it, if the legacy be not given over,
rather as an effort to effect a desired object by intimidation,
than as concluding the rights of the parties. If an unreasonable ute be made. of the power, one not foreseen, and which
"could not be intended bk the testator, it has been considered as
a case in which the general power of Courts of Justice to decide on the rights of.parties ought to be exercised.
This principle must be kept in view, in construing the clause
now under consideration.
The acting executors, and executrix, are empowered, in all
cases o dispute or contention, to determine what is the intention of the testator; and'their decision is declared- to be final.
This power is given, in the apprehension that he may have
committed error. It is to be exercised in order to ascertain his
intent in such cases. It certainly does not include thn power of
altering the will. It cannot be contended; that this clause would
protect the executors in refusing to pay legacies altogether, or
in payihg to A, a legacy bequeathed to B, or in any other fiain
deviation from the will. In such case, what wo'uld be the remedy of th6 injured party? Is he cbncluded by the decision of
.the executors, or may he resort to aCourt of Justice? But one
answer can be given to these questions. So gross a departure
from the manifest intent of the testator, cannot be the result of
an honest endeayour to find that intent; and must be considered
as a fraudulent-exercise of a power, given for'the purpose of
preserving peace, and preventing expensive and frivolous litigition.
But who is to determine what is a gross xhisconstruction of
the will, if the party who coticeives himself injured may not
submit his*case to a Court of Justice? And if his case may be
brought before a Court, must not that Court construe-the will
rightly?
This is not the only objection which the plaintiffs in error
must encounter, in supporting their construction of this clause.
The executors )-ave not, we think, this power.'unaided by the
executrix.
It is given to a majority of the acting executors, "his wife,
to have a voice as executrix." Her-participating in the decision, is indispensable to its validity.
I If this power was given to 'her solely, in her character as executrix, it is seriously doubted whether it can be exercised till
she assumes that character.
Even bad she united with the executors, this would certain-

JANUARY TERM, 1808.

681

(Pray et al. vs. Belt et al.)
ly be a case which might well be considered as an exception
from the general operation of the power. The bonds to which
it was applied, are the bonds of one of the executors, and it was
exercised by bestowing them on the executrix, instead of the
persons to whom they were bequeathed by the testator.
In doing this, the executors have plainly misconstrued the
will. The testator had not charged the 10,000, which were to
be raised in order to rebuild the houses that were destroyed by
fire, on these bonds, but on a different fund. It is, therefore, the
very case put, of paying to the executors the legacy bequeathed to other persons. It may also be observed, that neither of
the executors, nor Mrs. Pray, &ayin their answer, that this diversion ofthese bonds to a different purpose from that directed by the testator, was made from a belief that it was his intention, in the event which had occurred, They refer to the
clause, and rely upon it, as if it had empowered them to do
whatever they thought best, .in the 'progress of their administration; instead of doing what, in their best judgment, they
believed to be his intention.
But, however correctly the will of the testator may have been
construed in the Circuit Court, and we think it was construtd
correctly, at least so far as respects the two last bonds mentioned in item 51 of the will of John Pray, deceased; othei objections have been taken to the proceedings in the Circuit
Court, which seem to be well founded.
The legacy for which this suit is instituted, is given jointly
to several persons in different families. The legatees take
equally, and the' numbers in neither family are ascertained by
the will. Under sich circumstances, we think all the claimants ought to be brought before the Court. The rights of each
-individual depend upon the number who are entitled, and this
number is a fact, which must be inquired into, before the
amount to which any one is entitled can be fixed. If this fact
were to be examined in every case, it would subject the executors to -be har.ssed by a multiplicity of suits, and if itwere
to be fixed by the first decree, that decree would not bind persons who were not parties. The case cannot be distinguished
from the rule which is applied to residuary legatees.
The bill filed in this case, does not even state the number of
persons belonging to the different families, nor to that family
in whose behalf this suit is brought. Nor does it assign any
reason for not making the proper parties. It does not allege
that the other legatees refuse to join, as plaintiffs, or that they
tannot be made defendants.
For this cause the decree must be reversed, and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court, that the plaintiffs may amend
their bill.
Vor. I.
4 R

68f2

SUPREME COURT.
(Pray et al. w. Belt et al.)

The objections to the report. are not entirely unfounded, and.
it is not quite satisfactory.
It does not, we think, show with sufficient clearness, whether the plaintiffs in that Court were entitled to the first bond.
But as the case must go back to amend the bill, a new report
will of course be made; and if that shows, that the funds of the
estate were sufficient to pay the debts and legacies without applying this bond to that purpose, the plaintiffs below will be
entitled to that also.
This cause came on, &c., in consideration whereof, It is decreed and ordered by this Court, that the decree of the Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed and
annulled; and it is further ordered, that the cause be remanded to the said Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had
therein, and that the plaintiffs may amend their bill.

