476

SUPREME COURT.

JAMES D'WoLr, JuNIoe," PLAINTIFy iN EtRoR,' v . - DAVIV
JAcquns RABAU&D, JlEAN PHiiPE;Fu'iD ItIK.RAATD, -AtPIHONSE MA~t.CRABAuD, ALIPN, AND SUBAECTS OP THI KING OF
FAIucr., AND ANDREW. E. BELKNAP, A OIIE.N OF THF2_2TATE
,OF MASSACHUS .rxS; DFEXDANTS IN ERRon.
A 'nonsuit may not be" ordered' b~y the Couft in any case, without the consent andacquiescence of the pelaintif. {49,}
A question of the citizenship ofa party to a caus, cannot cwsstitute a part
of the issue bn the merits; and must be brought forward by a pwope
plea in abatement, in an earlier stage'of the cause, .than the trial oi the
•merits. {498}"
"
"
The statute of Frauds of NewYor ,uia transcript on this subject, of the
statte
2-9 Charles,
ec.
d
It declares,
that nothe
action.haifbe
to charge
a defendant'bn
a .'special
proinisefor
debt, "defaultbrought
or mis.
:carrige of another; unless, the agreement, or some" .nemorandum, or
note thereof, be-in the wiing and signed by the party, or by sonitone
by him authorized. The worn" collateral" or aorigina" promise, do
nt occur in the statutite ;ad have been introduced by Courts to explain
its objects, and expound its true interpretation. 499
Whether,
by ththetrune
inte promise,
of thes(so called,)
f f raud,
it asofto
to
cases whiere
collateral
was a part
theextend
original
agreement, and founded on the same cnsiiosiderstn, moving at the same
ime, between
the apasrtes;
or whethder
was confined
it
to promise
cases where
there
is already
subsisting
debt' or demand,
and the
wa
merely; founded upon a subsequent 'ahi, distinct tinderstandi"ng; might,
if the point were entirely new, deserve aery
grave deliberation. But it has
been closed within very narrow limits by the course of the authorities,
and seems carcily open for general examination; at least i those states,
where the English authorities have been fully recognised and adopted iu
practice. {499}
"IfA agree to advance B a sum of money for which B is to be answerable,
but at the same time tris expressly upon the understanding that C will
do some act for the security of A, and enter into an sagreement with A.
for that purpose, it would scarcely seem a case of mere collateral undertaking, but rathera trilateral contract. The contract of B to repay the money, is.not coincident with, nor the same contract with C to do the act.
Each is an original promise; though the one may be deemed subsidiary
or secondary to the other. The origina consideration flows from A, not
solely upon the promise of eithe B or C, but upon the promise of both
div
intuia,
and eachibecomes
to original
A,not upon
a joint,
buta several so
original
undertaking.
Each is aliable
direct
promise,
founded
upon
the same consideration. {500}
The case .of Wain as. Warlters, (5 .Ecai 10,)was the first case which settled
the point, that it was necessary in order to escape from'the tatute of
Frauds, that the agreement should contain the consideration for the, promise as Well as the promise itself. If it contain it, it has since been determined that it is wholly immaterial whether the consideration be stated in
express terms, or by necessary implication. That cjse has been adopted) 'to a limited extent, by the Courts of New-Yorkc into its jurisprudence,
as a sound construction of the statute. {501}

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

477

(D'Wolf z. Rabaud et al.)
The declsions in the Courts of New-York on the construction of its own statute, and the extent of the rules deduced from it, present to this Court aguide in its
decisions upon the Ionstruction of their statute. 15011
ERROR to the Circuit Court of Npw-York, for the Southern
District.
The defendants in error, brought an action of a8sup.!iti-in

the Circuit Court of the United States. for the, Southeri District of New-York, against the plaintiff in error,. to recover
damages for the breach of his cbntract, io ship to them, at
Marseilles, five hundred boxes of white Havata sugar.
The declaration contains several special coiiuts; of which
the first and second only were-relied upon at th6 trial.
The first count stated, ,that at the time of making the respective'promises and undertakings of the defendant the plaintiffs
were co-partner, in trade, carrying on business at Marseilles
in France, under the firm, of Rabaud, brothers and company.
That one George D'Wolf, 6f Bri.stol, Rhode Island, being. desirous of drawing upon-the plaintiffs at Marseilles,. for 100,000
francs ;.on the 15ih March 185, at New-York, in.,consideration that the plaintiffs, at the special instance-and requestof
the defendant, would auithofize the said George D'Wolf to
draw bills of exchange upon the-plaintiffs for the said sum.of
100,000 francs, the defendant undertook, and.promisid, that
he would ship forthe account of George D'Wor, on- boat of
such vessel as George D'Wolf -should 'direct, five hundred'
boxes of whit' Havana sugars, consigned' to the plaintiffs .at,
Marseilles, and the 'plaintiffs afterwards did .duly. authorize
George D'Wolf to drav bills of eichinge upon them at Marseilles, for the said sum. of 100,000 frantcs, which bills were
drawn by him 'oxL the'16th of November 1825 1-and paid by the
plaintiffs o~i
the 3d day of March 1826. That on the 4th day-of
January 18 5,'at the city of New-iYork, GeorgeD'Wolf did direct and name a vessel, the brig Quito, theri laying in the port of
New-York, and ready to receive the said. sygars, on board of
which vessel the sugar should and oitght to have been shipped,
by the defendant, on account of George D'Wolf,, and-consigned to the plaintiffs at Marseilles, according to his said promise and undertaking; of all which promises the defendant had
notice; and although -he-was then and there requested, to ship
the sugar on board thesaid vessel, yet he did wholly refuse, the.
'same.
The second count differs from the first -only in stating the
contrAct to. have bien, that, "in cgnsideration that the plaintiffs, at the request of the defendant, would autlhrize George
D'Wolf to draw bills of exchange upon them at Marseilles,'for
another sin of 100,000 francs, on account of othd'r five hundred

478

SUPREME COURT.

(D'Wolfvs. Rabiud et al.)
-boxes of white Havana sugar, to be shipped by the defendant
for account of George D'Wolf, on board of such vessel as
George D'Wolf should direct, and consigned to them the
plaintiffs at Marseilles, the defendant undertook, &c." and
averring, that relying on the promise and undertaking of the
defendant so made, they, the plaintiffs, after the making thereof, did duly authorize George D'Wolf to draw bills of exchange" upon them for another sum of 100,000 francs, on account of the last mentioned five hundred boxes of white Havana sugars, to be shipped by the defendant on account of George
D'Wolf, and consigned to the plaintiffs at Marseilles.
The cause was tried at the October term of the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Southern District of NewYork, in 1826, when the jury, under the charge of the Court
found a verdict for the plaintiffs below for 819,950 85. The
opinion of the Court, in the charge to the jury, was excepted to*
by the counsel for the defendant, and a bill of exceptions sealed
by Mr. Justice Thomson, sitting as Judge of the Circuit Court;
and -the opinion delivered by him, states the evidence adduced in the. cause.
On the 'trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs below, gave evideice, by the testimony of George D'Wolf,
who was examined under a commission at Havana, that he
George D'Wolf, had seyeral transactions with the plaintiffs previous to that which gave rise to this suit, and had at various
times drawn bills on them. That he had three interviews
with Mr. Belknap, on the subject of the shipment of the sugars; which interviews were had, first in Wall street in the
city of New York; secondly, at the counting house of James
D'Wolf, Jun., the plaintiff in error; and thirdly at the boarding house of Mr. Belknap. James D'Wolf, Jun. was present at
the first interview, and he with a certain Frederick G. Bull was
present at the second, at his counting house.
Mr. George D.Wolf stated, that the transactions relative to
th6 shipment of the sugars were; that, in Wall.street, he proposed t6"Mr. Belknap to address him five hundred boxes of sugars to th house at Marseilles, on receiving authority to draw
on account of the sane, to the extent of 100,000 francs. Mr.
Belknap, being engaged, an interview was proposed at the
counting house of Mr. James D'Wolf Jun., which took place,
and at which Mr. Belknap observed, that the advance was
heavy; and a' calculation was made by F. G. Bull, the confiAential clerk 6f Mr-. James I 'Wolf Jun., and by Mr. James
D'Wolf himself, of the value of the sugar, compared with the
proposed advance; the conclusion of which was, an agreement
that the sugars should be shipped, and the authority to draw
granted to George'D-Wolf; Mr. James D'Wolf engaging, by

JANUARY TERM

1828,

479

.(D'Wolfw. Rabaud et al.)
letter, to ship the sugars in behalf of George D'Wolf; which
form of letter was afterwards carried by George D'Wolf to Mr.
Belknap, was assented to by him; was signed by Mr. James
D'Wolf Jun.;- and the authority to draw granted. and used accordingly.
This letter, and the authority to draw, are in the following:
terms.New-York, 15th November 1825.
Mn. JAMtIES D'WOLF, JUN.

Dear Sir :-You will please ship for -my account, on board of
such a vessel as I Ahall direct, five hundred boxes white Havana
sugar, consigned to Messrs. Rabaud, Brother & Co. Marseilles,
and oblige your friend and-obedient servant.
GEORGE D'WOLI-.
Agieed to, JAMES Wl'Wo'LF, JuN.
New-York, 15th fNfpnber 1825.

Messrs.

RABAUD,

BROTHErts

& Co., Mar .7.l

I have this day authorized George D'Woif Esq. to draw on
you for
thousand francs, and I request you to hondur
his bills to that anount.
Your obedient servant, A. E. BELKKAP.
Mr. George D'Wolf also stated, that his object was to ship
the sugars in one of his own vessels; that he was then indebted
to the house in Marseilles, about thirty thousand francs, but
could not say that Mr. James D'Wolf knew of the debt. The
sugars were shipped to obtain the usual advance, and the consignees vere to have the usual commissions in the trnsaction.
Bills, to the amount of the advance were afterwards drawn
and negotiated in Boston, and the proceeds of the same applied
as follows.-1,000 dollars remitted to Mr. James D'Wolf, in
checks on the bank, and in aii acceptance of Isaac Clapp, a bro-ker in Boston; and the resiaue of the proceeds of the transaction passed to the account of George D'Wolf by Mr. Clapp.
It was admitted, that the bills..vere regularly paid at Marseillds, by the defendants in error.
It was also in evidence, by the testimony of Mr. George
D'Wolf, that at the time of the negotiation for the bills, Mr.
George D'Wolf had in the hands of the plaintiff in error, from
three to four hundred boxes of sugar; of which sixtyhad been reitted from Rhode Island, on account ofwhich he drew the sum
of four thousand dollars, and the remainderwere purchased for
his account by Mr. James D'Wolf Jun.; and at the same time
he was indebted to Mr. James D'Wolf Jun. a considerable
amount.

480

SUPREME COWRT.

(D'W
w. Rabaild et A)
Mr. George D'Wolf also testifled' that the sugars to be shipped were to be on-his account, and ot on'that of the plaintiff
in error-that the agreement with Mr. James D'Wolf was that
the proceeds of the negtiation of the advance should be remitted to him, and upon this verbal agreement, Mr. James
D'Wolf granted his signature tothe letter of the 15th of November 182.
Mr. James DlWolf afterwards wrote to the
witness, that he should decline to make the shipment in question, until he should receive the remittances' agreed upon.
When the- letter was first presented, Mr. James D'Wolf declined signingit, deferring itto the nextmorning, when he should
see *Mr.Bull;, and it was signed the next morning. That the
letter or memorandum of agreement, had for its sole object
the shipment of the sugars to Marseilles, that market being
preferred to New-York; and to place in the hands of Mr. James
D'Wolf Jun. the proceeds of the bills, in order to further the
shipment; and-not with reference to accounts existing betweefi
him and'the plaintiff in errori and that the plaintiff in error,
knew the defendants, and particularly Mr. Belknap, in the
transaction as stated.
Mr. George D'Wolr also stated in his evidence, that he did
not .kiow that Mr. Belknap Was acquainted with the circumstance that the proceeds of the bills were to go to the plaintiff in error; or with the state of accounts between- him and
Mr. James D'Wolf junior.
.vidence was also given to show, that the plaintiffs below
carried on business in Marseilles, in France, and that all of
the said parties, with th exception of Mr. Belknap, were native shbjects of France;- and that Mr. Belknap was a native
citizen of the United States, had resided some years in Frante,
and now, always considering Boston as his home, resided li
Boston; vhere he lodged in a boarding-houqe, in irhich hehired rooms by the year; and was understood to pay taxes in
Boston; his letters of business were addressed to Boston ;and
he.was absent from there in the United States, occasionally,
for the purposes of transacting .business for the firm in Marseilles.
'Soon after the negotiation of the 15th November, Mr. George
D'Wolf. became insolvent, and at the time of'his failure he'
was largely indebted to the plaintiff in error. Being thus
embarrassed he addressed to Ir. Belknap the following letter.-

Bri~tol, R?. 1. 27th Decomber, 1825.
VT.MA. ]. BELxXAP.
Dear Sir,
I am- in receipt of yours of the 23d instant, and note-its
contents. Owing to my embarrassments, the Magnet which I

JANUA-

: TERM

1828.

481

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud et al.>
had wrote you would proceed to New-York to take the sugars,
which Mr. James D'Wolfjuniol, was to ship to your house in
Marseilles, will not go on. You are therefore at liberty to make
any arrangements with him you may think proper, for the interest of all concerned. I am extremely sorry that you met
with an accident to prevent your visiting me, as it woirld have
afforded me much pleasure in seeing you.
Believe me very truly your friend,
GEORG

D'WoF.

Which letter was upon the 27th day of December 1825
shown to the plaintiff in error, by Mr. Belkuap; and a copy of
the same was, upon the Sd of January 1826, delivered to him
enclosed in the following letter :New-York January Sd 182G.
MR. JA-MES D'W0LF Junior, New-York.
Sir-4- enclose you a copy of a letter which I yesterday
received from- Mr. George D'Wolf, of Bristol Rhode Island.
In pursuance of the authority given me by him, I shall, without delay, engage and provide a vessel, on board of which I
shall require you (according to your contract of the 15th No
vember last,) to ship for account of Mr. George D'Wolf five
hundred boxes white Havana sugar, consigned to Messrs. Rabaud, Brothers & Co., Maiseilles.
Your obedient servant,

A. E.

BELKNAP.

On the 4th January 1826, Mr. Belknap addressed the plaintiff in error, in the following terms :Nezw-YorA-, Jnuary 4th 1826.
Mi. JAmEs D'WOLF Junior, New-York.,
Sir-In. pursuance of the aodce I gave you in my letter of
yesterday, I have engaged the American brig Quito, Captain
Wing, now lying, at Fly Market wharf, in this city, for the purpose of receiving, on freight, for Marbeilles,five hundred boxes of
white Havana sugar. The Quito is a good staunch vessel, and is
now ready to receive the sugar. I therefore require you to ship
on board of-her for account of Mr. George D'Wolf, of Bristol
R. I. five hundred boxes of white Havana sugar, consigned to
Messrs. Rabaud, Brothers Se Co. of Marseilles, according to
your contract of 15th November last. Herewith, is a copy of
a letter I addressed to Mr. George D'Wolf, on the 23d of December last, his answer to which I showed you yesterday; at
the same time I gave you a copy of it. If you prefer to ship
the sugar in any vessel other than the Quito, I have no objecVoL. I.
SP

48

SUPREME COWR.

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud et al.)
tion, provided yqu will- designate the vessel, and give notice to
me immediately, and make the shipment without delay.
Your obedient servant,
A. E. BELKNAP.
To this letter the plaintiff replied as follows..NXew-York, January5th 1826.

MR. A. E."BEI.NAPo
Sir-In answer to your letter of the 4th instant, I have mere,
ly to say, that whenever Mr. George D'Wolf, or any person
authorized by him, will pay me for five hundred boxes of Havana sugar, I will ship the same, consigned to Messrs. Rabaud, brothers 8c Co., at.Marseilles.
Your obedient scrvant,
JAMiES D'WOLF JUN.

Evidence was also given, that the brig Quito was engaged
early in January 1826 by Mr. Belknap to carry the sugar to
Marseilles, ,that'she was a competent vessel for the purpose,
an& that the freight to be paid for the iransportation of the
sugar was the usual and tustomary -charge for the sarpe.
, The plaintiffs in error objected at the trial to the reading of
the letter of 27th December 1825, from George D'Wolf to Mr.
Belknap, s.hich objection wis overtuled by the Court.
On the part of the'plaintiffs in.eri-or, at the trial of the cause
before,the Circuit Court, Frederick G. Bull was intfoduced as
a witness, whose testimony is stated. in the bill of exceptions
tb have been given as follpws.' That he is, and for-nine years past has been, a confidential
clerk in the employment of the said James D'Wolf, junior;
that he was present at the counting-room of the said defendant on the 15th day of November 1825, when the interview
mentioned and described in the said depositiQn of the said
George D'Wolf took place, between the said George D'Wolf,
the said Andrew E. Belknap, and the said James D'Wolf,
junior; that the said George D'Wolf and Andrew E. Belknap
came into the countihg-room on "said 15th.day of November in
company, and were.conversing together; that they there found
the said James D'Wolf, junior, and the witness; that after
some. little time had -elapsed, -the said James D'Wolf, janior,
and the -witness, withdrew into an inner apartment or adjoining room, and were in a few minutes followed by the said
George D'Wolf, and the said Andrew E. Belknap; that while
the said Andrew E. Belknap and the said George D'Wolf
were in conversatibn, the latter addressed a question to the said
James D'Wolf, juni6r, and asked him how much five hundred

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

488

(DWolTf vs. Rabaud.et al.)

boxes . of sugar would bring, or amount to, at some specified
price; that the said James D'Wolf, junior turned to the witness, and asked him to make the calculation; that the witness

did make a hasty calculation, and gave for answer, "1about seventeen thousand dollars ;"" that he heard no proposition mcade
by the said James D'Wolf, junior, to the said Andrew E. Belknap, nor by the said Andrew E. Belknap to the said James
D'Wolf, junior,.nor any conversation between the said Belknap
and the said defendant of any imlfirtance, although 'hethinks

that the said defendant did speak to the said Belknap once or

twice during the said interview; that the said James D'Wolf,
junior, appeared, so far as the witness observed, to take little
or no interest in the conversation or business which was going
forward and taking place between the said George D'Wolf and
the said Andrew E. Belknap; that during the time of said -conversation and interview, (which occupied not more than ten or
fifteen minutes,) the said James D'Wolf, junior, left the counting-room for a short time and returned; that the said James
D'Wolf, junior, is in the habit of communicating all matters
of business to the witness, andl consulting him concerning the
same, and the witness does not.think it at a-U probable, that the
said James D'Wolf, junior, would have made any contract or
agreement with the said Andrew E. Belknap, either at that
time or any other, withotIt the knowledge of the witness; that
the gaid James D'Wolf, junior, during part of the time of the
said interview, was walking about his counting-ioom, while
the said George D'Wotf and the said Andrew E. Belknap
were conversing together, and at one time came up to the witness and addressed some remarks to him; that the witness was
writing at the desk, and occupied in his own affairs of business, and did not pay very particular attention to the conversation of the said parties; that the defendani and Belknap
-might have conversed on the subject of the sugar without the
witness knowing it; and the witness would not undertake to
say that an agreement by the said defendant with the said
plaintiff might not have been made without the knowledge of

the witness; that the witness does not know, that.the said Andrew E. Belknap knew-that the proceeidg of said bills were to
have been remitted to the said defendant, by the said, George
D'Wolf, before.the said defendant was bound to ship the said
sugar; that the said George D'Wqlf was, on the 15th day of
November 1825, and for a lofig period anterior thereto, and
ever since has been, largely indebted to the said James D'Wolf,
junior; that the sum of thirteen thousand dollars, for and on
account of the five hundred boxes of sugar mentioned in the
said deposition of George D'Wolf, was never paid by the said
George to the said defendant. and never came into his hands:

484

:5UPREME COURT.

(D'Wolf vs. TIbaud et al.)
that George D'W'olf did, on or abotit the 2d day of N voLber
1825, remit to the defendant, his. George D'Wolf's, draft for
,sixhousanddollars, on Isaac Clapp, of Boston, at three lays'
sight, and a check upon the United States' Branch Bank at
New-York, for one thousand dollars; which 8aid -draftand check
were both paid, and the amount thereof received by the said
•James D'Wolfo junior: that the said George D'Wolf did also,
s3hortly after, transmit to the defendant, his, the said George
D'Wolf's draft upon the said Isaac Clapp, at thirty days' sight,
for seven thousand dollars, which was received by the defendant, but was never paid, either by the acceptor, the said Isaac
Clapp, or the drawer, the said George D'WVolf; but the same
was protested for non-payment, and still remains due and un- paid.
The counsel for the defendant below, then offered to prove by
N-r. Bull, that there was an express understanding and agreeinent between the defendant and George D'Wolf, at the timethe said letter of the 15th of Novem'er was signed by the defendant, that the latter ';hould furnis i the defendant with the
funds necessary for the purchase of said sugar, before the said
defendant would be under any obligation to ship the same.
This, testimony was not permitted to go to the jury; the
Court stating that "the defendant below could offer no testimony to the jury, of any arrangement between him and George
D'Wolf relating to the funds for the payment for the sugar,
unless it should also appear that Mr. Belknap was party thereto,.
or that the same was brought to his knowledge." The counsel
fop the defendant below excepted to this opinion.
The defendant below also gave in evidence on the trial, the
following' letter, dontaining matter contradictory to the testi.
mony of George D'Wolf.
Boston, November 28th, 1825.
Mr. J.A.MEs D'WoLF, Junior.
Dear Sir,
I send you my draft on *Mr.Clapp for 96000, at three days'
sight, as he cannot get any drafts or checks on New-York,
having tried all the banks and b.rokers; he has not sold the exchange, or any part of it as yet, but thinks he can in three br
four days. Last sales 19.- cents; money very scarce; the NevYorkers have sent on a great deal of paper; banks stopt discounting, He will remit you the balance as soon as he sell,
then, if a draft can be procured; or otherwise will authorize
you to draw on him for the balance; I enclose a check on the
Branch for S1000,making 97000 which credit this account.
I am your friend and oledient servant,
GEoRGE, D'WoLr,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

485

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud et al.)

The case was argued bv Mr. Ogden ana1 Mr."Jonathan Prescott Hall for the plaintiff in error, aind by Mr. WVebster-and
Mr. Charles C. King for the defendants.*
* The following charge was delivered by Mr. Justice Tn6.xvsox to the
juryThis case is of considerable importanc? in point of amount, and may be
considered as a.struggle between two innocent parties to throw off irom
their own shoulders a loss which must fall upon one or the other, by reason
of-the failufe of George D'Wol'f. In such cases, it is reasonable to expect
that each party will urge with great zeal the points relied on to effect his
'object. .
It has been distinctly stated by the counsel, that situated as this cause is,
it is not probable that a decision here -ll put an endto the contoversy, but
that it will be'carried to the Supreme Couit of the Uni ted States; and to
enable tlfe parties to avail themselves of-their rights in this respect, and to
take exceptions to the opinion I may expresS, it may be necessary for me
iiot only to be explicit, but to repeat in some measure wlat I have already
had occasion to say in disposing of the motion for a nonsuit.
The result in the present casewill depend principally upon the questions
of law Which are involved, and with Which you have no concern. Some of
these questions are, however, so connected with facts which it is your province'to decide; and fbr the purpose of enabling the paities'toavail themselves-o" whatever exceptions they may have to take, many rerarks may be
,ade in the courseof my charge to you, which, in strictness, are not to be
xddressed to a-jury.
The first question arising is,* whether the plaintiffs have shown thenselves entitled, under the Constitution and Laws'ofthe ,United States, to
come into this Court to' prosecute their action. It has not been denied but
-that all the plaintiffs except Belknap are aliens, aid have a right to bringtheir suit in this Court, The declaration avers thht Belknap-is a citizen of
the state of Massachusetts, and it is contended on the part of the defeadant,
that this avermenthas not been proved.
-From the evidence, it appears, that Belknap was either born in Boston,or removed there vith his fathe'r, at a veryearly'age, from New-tampshire,
and continued to livein •Boston until he went to France, whe"e he remained
ten or twelve ye ars,.when he returned to BQston. That he is an'nmarried
man, having no family; lives.atlodgings; has rooms,* one~of the witnesses
understood, hired by the year, and is there abouf two-thirds of the time."
The
reidue
of the'time
abseitand
on Philsdelphia,
business.of the
of whichhe-is
A
pitswr,
prin~ipally
in he'is
New-York
andflm
lother
cities of 'the

Ufnit'e4 States". One ofthe 'witnesses testiflpd, that on on occasion he Wet"
with him to town'meeting to vote at an election, he' did not see 'him vote,'

but'endfgmtond he went there for that purpose. All the witnesses, in RtIier
to the general qeestion, where seas the "home of' Delknap say it was at'
Bostn that they should address him at that. lace as his place of residene
if they did not kiow of his absenc'e. That lettes fr-om abroad are addregsed
tO lhim at.that place. These are the leading and principal'Jhcts in evidence"
as to'B1Iknajpgs bbinga a.tizen of Massachusetts. That he~is a citizea of
the' Vunited. States cann6t be questioned and. ifa citizen of' any particulatetateq within the sense and meaning of the COnstitution and Law, it must
Ib'e of Massachusetts. No evidence bas been offered to raise a do'ubt od
thW point. Whenever absent from Boston it'-was' temporarily and on the
•btrsiuess of the plaintiffs;' and to deprive an Americaux citizen of the right

486-

SUPREME COURT.

(D'Wolfv8. Rabaud et al.)
Mr. Halt and Mr. Ogden for the plaintiff in error.
The defendants in error brought au action of astumpsit in
the Court below, against the plaintiff in error, founded upon a
of suing in this Court, on the ground of his not being a citizen of any particular state, there ought to be very strong evidence of his being a mere wanderer without a home. Belknap does npt appear to stand in this situation.
His domncil, his home, and permanent residence, may, with the greatest
propriety, be said to be in Boston. There is'no pretence that this was
merely colourable, for the purpose of qualifying himself to bring this ac,
tion; and to deprive him of that privilege would be extending this disability beyond the reason and policy of the law. The facts in relation to
Belknap do not appear to be in dispute so far as I have, understood them;
and if, according to your understanding of-the evidence, they ,are as I have
stated, the, averment that he is a citizen of the state of Masssachusetts is
sufficiently proved.
2. The next inquiry relates to the merits of the cause, and embraces the
main question upon which the rights of the parties must be-decided.
The action is founded oh a'special4dontract alleged to have been entered
into b the defendant, and which he has not complied with. The declaration
contains several couits, in which the cause of action is in some 'respects
laid in different ways, but is. substantially, that the defendant, in consideration that Belknap would authorize George D'Wolf to draw on the plaintiffs for one hundred thousand francs,- undertook and promised to ship for
account of George D'Wolf, on board such vessel as he should direct, five
hundred boxes of white Haana sugar, consigned to the plaintiffs in this
cause, accompanied with the necessary averments and allegations of
breaches. And the great question is, whether this contract has been proved
by'such evidence as to make'it,legally binding on the defendant.
The letter of the 15th of November, 1825, from George D'W6lf to the
defendant, requesting hnn tO ship for his account five hundred'boxes of
white Havaiia sugar, consigned to the.plaintiffs, and underwritten by the
defendant." agreed to," is the principal evideice in this cause to establish
the contract.
It is said, that this letter under the statute of Frauds, does not, on its face,
contain any binding contract on the part of the defendant, and that the defects cannot be supplied by paiol evidence. This objection, I think, can-,
not be sustained. The first question to be settled, and which is matter of
fact for your determination, is, whether the arrangement between Belknap
aid George D'Wolf, as to the, authority to draw on the house in Marseilles
on the shipment and consigomhent of five hundred boxes of sugar, and the
undertaking of the defendant, were made and entered into at.one and the
same time, so as to form one entire transaction. The evidence onthis point
rests principally on the 'deposition of George D'Wolf. For although Mr.
Bull did not hear the defendant assept to the arrangement, yet,' from his owf
statement, such an arrangement or contrct might have been entered into
by the defendant without his hearing it; it is,-therefore, at most, but a negative kind of evidence, and ought not to outweigh the positive testimony
of George D'Wolf, unless he is discredited in some way, of which you will
when
to the
submitted
and will be
testimofy
judge..is
they.
withdraw
makeis in
upwriting,
their verdict.
They
will read
andjury
judge
for
themselves.
I to
understood
him to say, th he defendant
was with him
wbhenthey first met in WaIl street, and had some conversation about the authority to draw, and the shipment of the sugar, he, George D'Wolf then,

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

487

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud et al)

speeial agreement; they are therefore bound to prove the cont6'act stated in the declaration, expressly, as laid. This is a car-

dinal rule in pleading. anon. L. Ray. 735. Hockin vs. Cooke,
stating to Belknap that he had between three and four hundred boxes of
the sugar then in the defendant's possession ; that a time was appointed to
meet at the defendant's counting-house to negotiate further on the subject i that *uch meeting did take-place, and the agreement then concluded,
as contained in the letter of the 15th of November, 1825. The consideration
for this undertaking was the authority given by Belknap to George D'Wolf,
to draw on.the plaintiffs for a hundred thousandfrancs. This consideration,
it is true, although fully proved, is not expressed in the written contract.
And one questFon is, whether it can be supplied by parol evidence- and I
think it may, if-the undertaking of the defendant was entered into at the
same time with that between Belknap and Gog~i WWolf, so as to form one
entire transaction. This evidt-nce does not in any manner contradict the
written agreement, but is perfectly consistent with it. As between the
plaintiffs and George D'Wolf, the consideration might clearly be supplied
by parol proof; and if the undertaking of the defendant was at the same
time, itrequired no consideration moving from 'the plaintiffs to him ; the
consideration to George D'Wolf was sufficient to uphold and support the
contract of the defendant. The undertaking of the defendant to riake.the
shipment, was certainly the principal, if ndt the sole consideration uponwhich .Belknap authorized the drafts on the plaintiffs; for George
D'Wolf says expressly, that lie does not believe the authority would have
been given without such undertaking by the defendant; so that it might be
urged with great force that the whole credit was given and rested on the
engagement of the defendailt to make the shipment. If the contract of the
defitndant was entered into~at the counting-house at the time mentiined,.it
is of no consequence that the letler was not signed uitil the day after. This
was only reducing to form, and putting into the shape agreed upon, and
consummating the arrangement,.and would have rplation, as bet*een these
parties, to the time when the agreement was, in.
pointofffact, entered into.
But if I should be mistaken in this view-of the evidence, and the jurshould be of opinion that the contract between Belkhali and George D'Woif
was completed, and'unconnected with the engagement of the defendant,
before he undertook to make the shipment and consignment, then the evidence is not sufficient to maintain the present action. It would then be a
collateral undertaking made subsequent to the principal contract, and
would require some other consideration than that which supported th6 principal contract. Whether it is indispensable that such consideration should
be expressed in the written agreement or not, k is unnecessary to decide,
beause no such consideration has beeni proved, if it was admissil~le to supply it by parol evidence.
3. It is said in the next place, that the plaintiffs have failed in establishing a right to recover in this action, by reason of a variance between the
allegation in the declaration and the proof in support of it, in relation to the
letter of advice from Belknap to his copartners, apprizingthem of his, having authorized the drafts-of George D'Wolf. The ieelaration alleges, "that
in consideration that the plaintiffs would authorize George D'Wolf to draw
upon them for one hundred thousand francs, the defendant'undertook and
promised, &O But that the written authority shown in evidence was inblank as to the sum to be drawn, and that in this consisted the variance.
This letter being in blank, cannot be set up as a variance between the
allegation'and the proof. The declaration does not state that the authority

488

SUPREME COURT.
(D'Wolf t'. Rabaud et a].)

4'T. R., 314. .The plaintiffs muot, in the'first.place, prove-a

~romise from

the defendant to the plaintiffs, and then, any con-

sideration of benefit to the defendant, or of injury to the pfaintiffs; moving evtween the parties, will sustain the promise. (I
Roil. Jlr 6.)
It isfadmitted by the learned Judge, in his charge to the jury,
was in writing, or refer in any way to.the letter in iquestion; and George
D'Wolf swears that he was 'authorized to draw'on the plaintiffs for pne
hundred thousand frands. That in pursuance of such authority he did draw
up'on them for that sum, and his bills were accepted adid paid. The drafts
which accompanied the letter of 4dvice showed the amount, and the bills
,having been paid, the blank is of no importance In the present action.
4.. Thre next inquiry is, whether any vessel was designated to receive the
sugars according to the terms of the agreement. By the contract, the sugars were to be shipped on board such veisel as George'D'Wolf should direct. He, having become insolvent, wrote a letter, to Belknap, autho izing
him to make arrangement with we defendant on this subject, and to desig.
nate the vessel; which he accordingly did, and gave notice thereof to the
defendant; and demnanded the shipment of th6stgars. This was amply sufficient. The-authority reserved to George D'Wolf, to direct in what vessel
the shipment should be made, was for his benefit, which he might waive.
He was not bound personally'to designate such vesel ; he might do this by
his agent, and the authority given to Belknap was constituting him such
agent for that purpose; and the act of Belknap i'h this respect, .was, in judgxment of law, the act-of George D'Wolfi and it is in proof, that the vessel
designated, was in every respect fitted for the purpose. . Nor was any ob*jection-made by the defendant at the time on this ground; but he declined
makinr the shipment, because George.D'Wolf had not furnished him with
fnds to pui-chase the sugars; and the objection that the vessel-wag not designated Sy George D'Wolfcannot now be set up. The act of his agent
was his.act, and the evidence, therefore, fully supports the contract as laid
in the declaration.
' 5. Thedonly remaining question is as to the rule-by which the damages
are to-be-ascertained. Upon this subject much of The evidence.which has
'oeen introduced on the p.art of the plaintiffs, and the various estimates and
claqulations which have been subntted to the-jury, may.b- enthM]ey laid
asia, according to the view which I have taken ofthe questioi,. I concurwith
tht 'defendant's counsel -on this point, that the measure -of damages must
be' the value of the sugars in New-York, at the titne of the breach'of the
contract by the defendant, infrefusing to mike the shipment accoring to
his contract.- If this was a question between Georg&e D1Wolf and the
plaintiffi," for settling the account of'the ProcetdS of,-the sugars, had they
been shipped, it might haye required the'application of different principles:
But the breach of the contract oi the part of the defendant, consists in hot
imaking the shipment and consignment according 'to his undertaking.. Ue
did pt undertake to deliver'the sugars to the plaintiffs Pt Marseilles. He
had no concern with the transportation or the expenses ificiden't thereto. If
belhad shipped the sugars-n board the vessel designated, consigned to thd
plaintiffs, his 6ontract #,ould have been complied with. 'the plaintiffs are
accordingly entitled to recoveethd value of the sugar iii New-York, at the
-time when the defendant *ias bound by his contract to make the shipment.
This amount the jury will iscertain from the evidence tht'hNs been offered
them on that subject.

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

489

(D'Wolf tp. Rabaud et al.)
that "the letter" from, Geo. D'Wolf to the-defendant, dated
November 15th, 1825, and upon which th latter subscribed
the words "ag r eed to," is the principalevidence in the cause.'
This letter, we say, neither proves, nor conduces to prove the
promise laid in the declaration. In the first place, the plaintiffs are not parties to the contract contained in the .writing:
and it is a general rule, that no person can maintain an -action
of assumysit; upon an agreement to which he is not a party;
foi in such case thei'e can be no contract express or implied.
Jordan vs. Jordan, Cro. .liz. 869. Crow vs. Rogers, 1 trange,
592. Bourne vs. Mason, .1 Vent. 6.
The construction to be put upon this letter is matter of lavand it ought not to pass to the jury without explanation from
the Court. (1 T. R. 172.) *This agreement, upon itsfae, clearly
purports to be a contract between George D'Wolf upon the
one part, and lames D'Wolf jun. upon the other. The words of
the letter are to be'explained according to their naturalimport;
and'we are not to go in search of conjectures,in order to extend
them, when the meaning conveyed by the terms of the agreenient is evident, and leads to no absurd conclusion. Chitty on
Mar. vol. 8, 107. YPowd on Con. title" Interpretation."
Com..4Vattel's L. of X 024.
An express contract is-gathered merely from the words of
the parties themselves, who are bound to know the meaning
which the law will attach to express words. It rests on no uncertain inferences of the probable meaning of the parties; but
on the actual declaration-of intention, made in direct terms.
Chitty on Com. 4- Mar. vol. 3, pageg 3 and .4.
"The letter" judged by these rules, is plainly a contract
between the defendant .and Geo. D'Wof resting upon a cbnsideration passing between them, and the insertion of the names
of the plaintiffs was a mere direction, as to whose care the sugar when shipped should be committed. The plaintiffs are
the mere agents or intended bailees of Geo. D'Wolf, and have
no apparent interest in the subject-matter of the contract. The
agreement is placed, by the terms made use of, entirely under
the control of Geo. ]:Wolf, who has the power of designating a vessel to receive the sugar. He is a party in fact, and a party
in interest, and by. coinplying with the terms of the agreement
imposed upon im,'he w6uld have the right, and the sole right'
to seek an -enforcement of the contract. The words 4 for my
account," contained in the letter prove thatthe agreementwzas
not made with nor for the plaintiffs, and they have no autho,
rity for bringing an action in their own'-names, for a violation
of the contract.
,This position may be supported by an analogy drafn. from
billd
of lading. A 3bill
Q cf lading, 'expressed in the ordinary
VOL.

490

.UPREME. COURI
(D'Wolf.v. 'Rabaud et al.)

form, transfer's the propert' absolutely io the conmignec, and
he becomes, in legal contemplation, the owner of the goods.
But if words are niade use of in the bill of lading, which show
that the property of the shipment remains in tle consignor,
and that the consignee is the mere agent or facto" of the consigior ; then no action for a violation of the contract contained
in the bill of lading, will lie in the name of the consignee. It'
must be brought in the name'of the consignor. If the rights
of the consignee arising from avances made in expecation o
the consignment are violated, he has no remedy upon the conof Equiy.
Evgo ino
a CourtAfar
must bring
trover,
tract,
ans v8.but
Martlett
12 Mod.
156.,or('hitti
on Com.4
vol. S. 401,
v. Jordan;
1 John. S215.
Davis
vs. Lansing
n.
n. 5. 2-680.,
Potter Sa'rgeaut
5 Burrows,
vs. Morris,
B. ,4.l,
277.
The action must be brought in the nane of the party who
the subject matter of the contract; and
hase the agante
a mere equitable right, if any exist, will not suppor an action
are.been
notshipparwhich theit would
plaintiffs
ecopress agreement
upon
ties. an
If this'sugar
had beento shipped,
have
ped as the property of Geo. D'Wolf, who would have been liable for freight, insuirancecand commissions. The propertywould
have'been, at his risk; and in case of the bankruptcy of' the
plaintiffs, Geo. D'vWolf would have had the right t~o repay to
them the advance received, and to stop the goods in transittu.
"This not being an action for deceit and imposition, but on
a written"contracet, the right of the, plaintiffs to recover is mea-

sured precisely by that contract." Tayloe vs. Riggs, 1Peters's
in. post.
. 1828,
Reports of the Decisions of the
2. The letter upon its face, is plainly a contract between th
detenfdant
and Geo. D'Wolf, It is not negotiable, and the deivery Qf it, therefore, to th plaintiffs by Geo. D'Wolf, gives

in
upon
agreement
maintain
an action
them no
analogy
to a bill
This
instrument
bears
no the
their
wi authority
ne0aes. to
of exchange: not being madepayable in money and containing
no perative words of transfer. It-is a mere executory agreement to shp merchandise, and if vaid would only subject the
defendant to damages forits violation, as between the oriinal
parties. (Smith v8. Smith, 2 John,
Jerome
I40.
w. Whitney, 7
John. 321. Cooledge vs. Ruggles, 15 Mass.) If this letter or order had been for the payment of money, but drawn in its present restricted form,'it would not have entitled the plaintiffs

maintain an action in their own names upon the acceptance to
or
special contract. No instrument in the form of a bill of exchange,
was ever held to b6 negotiableunless in some substantial form
made payale to order on the face of it. The law, as laid down
in the case of Hill vs.fLewis, (1 Salk. 1,) has always been ad.
hereds to. (See Girard vs. D Costa9 et aLI Da0.ae 144. Down-

JANUARY TERM, 1828,

491

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud Ct al.)
ing vs. Backentoes, 3 Caines, 137. Stephens vs. Hill, 5 Es. N.
P. Cases, 247.)
3. This letter being a contract between Geo. D'Wolf and
the defendant, is, as between the original parties, nudunipactum,
for the want of mutuality and void. George D'Wolf was not
bound to designate a vessel nor to receive the sugar; and it is
a universal rule that a contract cannot bind one party and not
the other. "Apromise may be voluntary, but an agreement to be
binding, must contain a inutual engagement." Lyon vs. Lamb,
Fell. on Mer.Guar. 336. 1 Roll. Ab. 23. Coke Litt. 55, a. Doe vs.
Smith, 2 T.B. 438. Clayton vs. Jennings, 2, Tf. B. R. 706. Payne
vs. Cane, 3 7'. R. 148. Cooke vs. Oxley, 3 7'. R. 148. _Waine vs.
*Warlters, 5 Bast, 16. Kington vs. Phelps, Peake's N. P. Cas. 927.
Tucker vs. Woods, n John. 190.- Parkhurst vs. Van Cortlandt,
I John. (2. 282. Jenkins vs. Reynolds, S Brod. - B. 13.W6ods
vs. Edwards, 19 John.211. McLemore vs. Powell, 12,Wheat. 557.
!2Black. Cont. 447. 1 Fonrt. Eq. 885, n. a. vol. 3,129. 4 T. R.
764-5. 7 bid. 129-131. 7 Bro. P. C. 184.
4. But if the agreement be not void for.vant of mutuality.
still payment of the value of the sugar to the defendant, is a
condition precedent to his undertaking to ship, clearly implied
from the face of the instrument, and should have been averred
in the declaration. Chit. Plea. 314-45. 1 WMi. Saund. 8') note 4
q the end. 6 'om, Dig.title PleaderC. 51. 1 T. R.,645. 7 Ibid. 121.
1 Saund. 319-320. 1 East, 203, 208, 619. Coivpe vs. Andrews,
Hobart, 41. 1 I. 'Black 363.
5. The contract of the defendant relative to the shipment of
the sugar was entirely in writing, and is contained in the letter
of November 15th 1825. If this agreement is free from ambiguity, so as to be capable of a sensible exposition from its own
terms, without reference to extrinsic.matters, dehors the instrument itself; then no parol evidence can be introduced to vary
the'terms of the agreement, or lo change the parties thereto.
Clarke vs. Russell, 3 Dall.421. Qunnis vs. E rhart, i H. Black.
-289. Coker vs. Guy, 2 Bos. 4.Pull. 565. -Thompson vs. Ketchum,
8John. 146. Gilpins vs. Consequa, 1 Pet.R. 87. Dean ys. ,Mason,
4 C.R.
The N. Y. Ins. Co. vs..Thomas, 3 John..!as. 1. Jackson
vs. Croy, 12j .oh4. 427. it,Mass. 27. 9 Brow. Ch. 919. Peake'sEv'
117. Vandevoort vs. Col. Ins. ,Co. 2 Caines, 155. Mumford vs.
McPherson, 1 Johi. Rep. 418. Brigham vs, Rogers, 17 Mass.
Powell vs. Ednunds, 12 East, 10. Jackson bs. Sill, 11 John.216.
Parkhurst vs. Van Cortlandt, IJ. C. R. 28M. Hampshire vs.
Pierce, 9 Vez. 216.' .Jackson vs. Hart, 12 John. 17. Grani vs.
Naylor, 4 Cranch, 9,24.
6. But if there is any doubt upon this subject, and the parol
evidence be -admitted to explain the agreement, then we say,
that neither theparol proof, nor "the letter" taken in connexion

49 2

SUPREME COURT.

(D'Wolf vs. Rabaud et 0.)
with the parol proof, can sustain the plaintiffs' declaration.-1.
Because there is no proof upon the .record, that the defendant
ever made the promise set.forth in the declaration, either to ol
for the plaintiffs: but on -the contrary, the evidence is conclusive that the very promise, claimed by the plaintiffs to have been
made to them and for their benefit, was made by the defendant
to George D'Wolfj and for his benefit. The defendant having
moved for a nonsuit at the trial, has a right to examine the testimoAy dpon this point at tfiis
time. in the same manner as upon
the original motion. If.the testimony offered in evidence by the
plaintiff, be insui1cient, in.point of law, to sustain his declaration, the defendant has a right to call upon the Court to nonsuit the plaintiff. Swift -vs. Livingston, 2 John. Cases, 112. Clements vs. Benjamin, 12 John. 298. Pratt vs. Hull, 13 John. 298.
Crookshank vs. Gray, 20 John.35o.
9-2
The consideration upon which the defendant's promise was
made, is entirely different from that sefforth in the declaration,
and this is a fatal variance. '(King vs. Robinson, Cro. Eliz. 79.
Co. Z)ig. voL 1,.334, title, action upon the ease upon assumpsit.)
S. Were there any doubt upon thesepoints, the defendant
ought to have been permitted to remove them by the testimony
of Mr. Bull. If it be contended that this promise, although not
made directly.to th plaintiffs, was nevertheless made to Geo.
D'Wolf for their benefit; then the testony offered by the'defendant at tlie trial, ought to. have been received to contradict
this. assertion.
4. :Btit the promise contained in the letter, if made to Geo.
D'Wolf for the benefit of the plaintiffs, will not sustain the declaration, unless he canbe considered as the-mere agent of the
plaintiffs; and tiqs supposition is coneradidted, not only by the
-wordsofthe instrument itself, but by the plaintiffs' own witness.
[The counsel here referred- to and commented on the following
cases: Dutton vs. Pool, 2 Lev. 210. Scherm-erhorn vs. Vanderheyden, 1 John. Pep. p. 9. Felton vs. Dickenson, 10 Mass. 287.
Piggott vs. Thompson, S Bos. 4-Pull149, and the note. Martyn -6s.Hynde, COVup. 487. Com. 6f Feltmakers vs. Davis,(1 Bos.
4-PulL 102.) 8 alk.234. Comb.450. 3 T. B. 757. Chilt. on Plea.
voL 1, p., 4. Com.Diges. vol 1, p. S09 and the note p., title action
iton the case upon assurnpsit.] Indeed in the case of a written
contract "inter partes," no other than Pu immediate party to the
instrument itself, .can maintain an action upon it. (Ofiley vs.
Warde, 1 Lev. 235. Gilbey vs. Copley, 3 Lev. 189. Salter vs.
Kingsley, Carth. 77.)
If Geo. D'Wolf was tne-agent of the plaintiffs, then they are
bound by his acts, and must place the proceeds of the bills of
exchange in the hands of the defendant according to George

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

493

(D'WolfmY
Rabaud et L)
D'Wolf's express promise, before he will,be under any obfigation to ship the sugar.
7. No vessel has ever been designated by George D'Wolf, on
board of which the defendant has been required, by George D'
Wolf, to ship the sugar; and until such designation, no right of
action will accrue in favour of avy person against the defend-'
ant. The letter of George D'Wolf dated December 27th, 1825,
and addressed to A.. E. Belknap, (relied upon by the counsel
for the plaintiffs to prove an authority in Belknap-to designate
a vessel as the agent of George D'Wolf;) is insufficient for thatpurpose:.. It gives Belknap no such authority; and besides,
George D'Wolf had no right, legal or moral, after his bankruptcy, and. after failing to, place funds in the. hands of the defendants, either for the purchase or payment.of the sugar--to
call upon him to- ship the same,. consigned-'to the plaintiffs at
Marseilles.
8. The agreement of the defendant relative to the shipment
of the sugar, -if made with the 'plaintiffs at- all, was, collateral to an undertaking on yhe part of George D'Wblf that he
would cause the sugar to be shipped by thd defendant, in consideration of an authority to be given to'him to draw bills .of
exchange upon fle plaintiffs, for his.own benefit. For the .nbfulfilment of this promise, George D'Wolf was and is liable,
a nd the defendant's undertaking is essentialky a guarantee, given
in aid of George D'Wolf's credit, ,rfor the performance of
an act which he was bounc by a promisq, confessedly original,
to perform.. Frdm the performance of this promise Georgr.
underD'Wolf-has.uever beemexoiierated,.and the defendant's
taking is collateral to, that of-George D'Wolf.I The testimony
of the plaintiffs 'is,.therefore inadmissible under the statute of
frauds, to prove their declaration for the want of a sufficiejit memorandum ofthe ag eement- in writing. Whatever doubts.-may
have e
1sted,
upon this subject, its now well settled,that in'
cases under the atatute of q9 Char. 2, chap.-3,- sec. 4 (1 N Y.:
R1evited L ws page78, chap. 44, sc.11) the e6 iderationupon'
which the agreement rests as well as the promiseitself, must apWain vs. W arlters, 5 East, 16.' Lyon
pear upon the wfitinr.
v'. ,Lamb, Fell on Guar..-Saunders vs. Wakefield, s.K 8' &Pd.
595. Jenkins vs. Reynold, B. 4- Bing, p. 14. Jean vs. )rink,,
3 John. 211., Leonard vs. Vredenburg, 8 John, 27. Stewatts..
4 'ffir. 4M'Givin, I Cow. 99. Sloan vs Wilson,
372.f2.
hnord
/Jl'John.
2 Nott
Stephens, Ramsay &Co. vs. Winn,
Ibuckiyr tv. Darnall, 2 L. .Itay. 1085. Anderson vs. Hayrman, 1 H. 1.
.20. Goidon vs. MartyA, Fitz.302. Matson vs. WVharham, 2 T . 80. Jones
is. Ballard, Chase v. Day, 17. John. 114. .Rolle'sN.P1.280. c. 281. Jackson
ZT. Raynor, 12 John.-291.

SUPREME COURT.
(D'Wolfvs. Rabaud et al.)

Mr. Webster and Mr. King for the defendants.
1. As this cause is brought here by a writ of error, we apprebend that the Court will-not go into an examination bf the
weight of the testimony. The verdict of the jury is conclusive,
that the defen'dant made the agreement stated in the plaintiffs'
declarati6n.
.Itis unnecessary now to inquire, what was theagreementbetween the defendant and George D'Wolf,or whether that agreement could.be enforced-and it was equally so at the trial unless that agreement was brought home to the knowledge of
Belknap, so as to.become a part of the defendant's contract with
the plaintiffs.
92 But aside from the verdict-The testimony proved the
contract as laid in the declaration. 'If we put thd case upon the
verbal agreement between the parties, as we contend that we
-may, (3D .SOO) then the testimony of George D'Wolf clearly
made out our case. The letter is only corroborative of the verbal agreement. If we go upon the written contract as contained in the letter of the 15th November 1825; then we contend,
that the written agreement is in its terms as much an agreement with the plaintiffs as with George D'Wolf, and may enure to theipm benefit., If the letter had not expressed that the sugars were to-be shipped for the account of GeorgeD'Wolf, the
agreement of the defendant would have been a mere undertakingwith the plaintiffs.
But, for the purpose of this action, it is sufficient, that the
agreement contained in the letter of the 15th November, was in
fact made and entered into by-the defendant for the use and benefit of the plaintiffs. That it was so, was fully proved. They
advanced the consideration' of the undertaking in the faith of
its being performed and the defendaut,. at the time when he
signed the letter, knew, -that it was to be delivered to Mr. Belknap, who on its credit Would authorize George D'Wolf to
draw the bills.
It was not necessary, in order to entitle the plaintiffs to maintain their action, that George D'Wolf should have been a mere
ageht without interest. The cases cited do not support the position of the counsel The rile is, that if the promise is made
*to A for the benefit of B, from whom thal consideration moves,
the law -Al intend 'hat A is the niere agent of B. (1 Con. Dig.
action on the case assumpsit. E 4-note, Weston vs. Barker, 12
Johm. Rep. 276. Lawson v.,Mason, 3 Cranchi492.)
S. The main question, and that which involves the merits of
this cause, arises upon that part of -the charge of the learned
Judge, in which he instructed the jury "that if the undertaking
of thi defendant was entered into at the same time with that
between Belknap and George D'Wolf, so as to form one entire

JANUARY TERM, 1828-

495

"(D'Wolfvs. labaud et al0.)
transaction, then the consideration of the defendtmt's undertaking might be proved -by parol."
It is conceded that if the undertaking of the defendant was
original, and not within the statute of-Frauds, parol evidence
of the consideration was admissible. If the consideration be
stated in.connexion with the written agreement, the undertak-.
ing is in its terms direct to "theplaintiffs; and nbthing more
remains to be supplied by parol evidence. But, if it were necessary, parol evidence was admissible to prove the res gesta, and
purpose of that letter and agreement. Bateman vs. Phillips,
15 Bast,972. 7 Taunt. 295. 5 f'heat: 326.
But it is contended, that the undertaking of the defendant.
(if an" undertakifig" to the plaintiffs,) was a collateral agreeinent within the statite of -rauds ; and that the consideration
as well as the promise, must be in writing, in order to be binding upon th6 defendant.
Admitting the law to be now settled by the English-cases,

as we say it ought not to. be, we contend, that if the general
proposition which Was first laid dow;n by Lord Ellenborough
in the case of Wain vs. Warlters, can be maintained, still.our
case cannot in any view of it be brought- within the principle

of. that case.
In Wain vs. Warlters, the defendant undertook to pay the
previously .sbsttngdebt of another person, 'upon a nep consideration ; that the plaintiff would forbear to sue. In the present case, the jury have expressly found that the arrangement
between Mr. Belknap and George D'Wolf;as to the authority
'to draw on thi house in Marseilles, on the shipment and con.
signment of the sugar, and the undertaking of the deferdant
to nma e that shipment, were -made gnd entered into at one and
the same time, so as t6 form one efitire transaction; and that
the authority given by Mr. Belknap toGeprge D'Wolf tQ draw
6n the plaintiffs for 100,000 francs"was the consideration of the
entire agreement. If tlieni the undertaking of the defendant
was collateral and within the statute of Frauds, it was simultaneous with the original undertaking, and, supported by the
same consideration-and npon the authorit~of Leonard vs.
Vredenburgh, .(8 Johns. Rep. 29,) the parol evidence of the
consideratioh was admissible. Leonard vs. Vredenburgh was
decided upon deliberate consideration, afid has been followed
and confirmed in. the subsequent cases, (Bailey vs. Treeman.
I1 Johns. Rep. 291. Nelson vs. Dubois, 13 John. Rep. 175,J
and it is regarded is settled law in the state of Ne%-York.
4. irhe undertaking of the defendant was not, collateral in
any sense; lut was an original undertaking, exclusively his.
and need ,not have been in writing.
By agreeing to- ship the sugars and to consign them to the

SUPREME COURT.

496

(D'Wolfvs. Rabaud et Al)plaintiffs, on the account of Geq. D'Wolf, the defendant did
not undertake to pay any debt of George D)'Wolf, then existing, or'about to be created. Tihe Wdendant was the only person who undertook or was bound to make the shipment. Ke
did ncit engage that Geo. D'Wolf 'should ship the sugars, or
that h would ship on t1e default of George; but he assumed
the entire and exclusive responsibility of -providing and shipping the five hundred boxes, according to the terms of the letter.
5. The letter.from George D'Wolf to Mr. Belknap, dated
at Bristol on the 27th December, 1828, constituted Mr. Belkn;ap the agent of George D'Wolf for the purpose of naming
the vessel, on board of. which the defendant was to make the
-shipment. It was intended as an authorization for that purp'oSe, and was regarded as such both by Mr- Belknap and the
defendant. But whatever objections might have been made by
the defendant, either to the sufficiency.of that authority, or
to the right of George, D'Wolf, after his bankruptcy, either to
naine'the 'vessel, or -to duthorize Mr. ,Belknap, or any 'other
person to do so, they ivere waived by the defendant in his letter
to Mr. Belknap, under the date of the 6th of January, 1826,
wherein he -puts his r~cfusal to ship the suigars on'the single
grpund, thtat they had not been paid fqr.
Mr. Justice-STony; delivered the opinion ofthe CourtMessrs. Rabaud, Brothers 8 'Co., of Marseilles, brought .a
suit in-the Circuit Coirrt bf the soifthern district of New-York,
*against James D'Wolf jun. (the plaintiff in error,) to recover
damages, for not shipping them 500 boxes of sugar on account.
of one George D'oDf, according to an agreement entered inter'
by him with them. The de'claration contained fo'ur counts, and
in each of-them the' substance of the Belknap
contract (one
stated,
t parthe
of isthe
one
defedant, in consideration that
would authorize
Brothers & Co._)
of Rabaud,
ners
in the Wotf
touse to
George,D'
draw 6n
for for
100,000
francs,
undertoo'and
promised;
thattheheplaintiffs
would ship
the account
of George 'D'Wof 1 .on' board such vessel as'lie George D'Wolf
ahotild dluet,, five hundred bxes of white Havana sugar, consigned to the plaintiffs at Marseilles. The declaration then proceeds with tide poper a rments*-and breaches, necessaryto
mantain the a tion: aissue,
th trial, nnder the generals
-the jury found10 a erdictfor the p'ainfifs, and judgment w!as
ginen for them'.accqrdingly. The wuse nso.es
befor this
Cu dpon a writ of err, andt bil of exclptions, taken at the
-

trial.
I The bill of exceptions is.voluminous, and contains, at large,
.he evidence admitted at-the trial, -as wiell as the charge of the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

497

(D!Wolf vs. Rabaud et al.)
learned Judge who presided ,at the trial. It is unnecessary to
refer to that evidence, or to consider its nature 'bearing and extent, upon which so ample a comment ..hs been made at the
bar, except so far as it applies to some question of law decided
by the Court, to which an exceptiorn has been taken. The whole
facts were left open to the jury, and so far as they were imperfect, or inconclusive, the defefidant has had the full opportunity
of addressing his views to the jury, and they have found their
verdict against him.
In the progress of the'trial, a letter of the 27th December,
1825, written by-George DWolf to Belknap, was offered by the
defendants in evidence,'for the purpose of showing an authority froni George D'Wolf to Belknap, to direct or name a vessel to the defendant, on board of which the sugars might be
shipped. The defendant objected, to its~admission, and the objection was overruled. This constitutes the first ground of error, now insisted on by the defendant. We are of opinion'thatthe letter was rightly admitted, for both of the reasons stated
in the charge. It was evidence of such an authority; and the
defendant made- no objection to it at the time, on account -of
any insufficiency in this respect; but put his defence by his letter of the 5th of January 1826, on an entirely disffnct &round.
After the evidence for the plaintiffs was closed, the defendant moved for a honsuit, which motion was bverruled. This
refusal certainly constitutes no ground for reversal in this Court.
A nonsuit, may not be ordered by the Court, upon the application of the defendant, and cannot as we have had occasion to
decide, at the'present term, be ordered in any case without the
consent and acquiescence of the plaintiff, Elmore vs. Grymes;
ante, page 469. In the further progress of'the tria, upon the
examination of one Frederick G. Bull, a witness for the defendant, the counsel for the defendant offered to prove, by Bull;
that it was an express understanding and agreement between
the defendant and George D'Wolf, at the time the letter of the
15th November 1825 Cwhich will be hereafter more particular-r
ly noticed,) was signed by the defendant; that the latter should
furnish the defendant with the funds necessary for.the purchase
of the sugar, before the defendant would be under any obliga.
tion to*ship the same. This testimony was rejected by the
Court, unless it should also appear that Belknap was a party.
thereto, or that the same was brought home to his knowledge.
We can perceive no error in this decision. If the defendant
bad entered info the contract with th plaintiffs, stated in the
declaration and the private arrangement made between the defendant and George D'Wolf, constituted :no part of that con-,
tract,-and was unknown to them, it'certainly ought not to prejudice theirrights. It was res inter alios acta; and had no-feSVOL.

I.

SR

SUPREME COURT.
(D'Wolfvs. Rabaud et al.)
gal tendency .either to disprove the plaintiffs' case, or to exo.
nerate the defendant from his liability.
The other exceptions are exclusively confined to the charge
given to the jury, upon the summing of the Court, upon points
of law.
The first objection was to tthe sufficiency of the evidence to
establish the citizenship of Belknap, as averred in the declaration. This i5 now waived by the counsel, and indeed could not
now be maintained, because it has been recently decided, by
this Court, upon-full consideration, that the question of such
citizenship constitutes no part of the issue upon the merits, and
must be brought forward by a proper plea in abatement, in an
earlier stage of the cause.
The great question upon the mcrits, arises upon that part
of the charge, which relates to the agreement contained in the
letter of the 15th of November 1825, from George D'Wolf to
the deferidant, and the accompanying assent of the latter; with
reference to the statute of Frauds.
That letter is in the following terms.New-Y'ork, 15th November 1825.
MR. JAMnES D'WOLF, JUME
Dear Sir:-You-will please ship for my account on board
such vessel as I shall direct, five hundred boxes white Havana
sugar consigned to Messrs. Rabaud, Brothers & Co. Marseilles,
and oblige your friend and obedient servhnt,
GEoRcoE D'WOLF.
(Signed)
Agreed to, (Signed) JAMEs D'WOLF , JUN.
Upon tlds part of the case, the charge was as follows.:-"It
i said that this letter, under the statute of Frauds, does not pur-

port on its face to contain any binding contract on the part of
the defendant, and tihat the defects cannot be supplied by parol
eviddnce. This objection I think cannot be sustained. - The
first question to be settled, and which is matter of fact for your
determinati6n is, wlether the arrangement between Belknap
anck George D'Wolf,. as to the authority to draw on the hou~se
in Matteilles, on the shipment and consignment of five hundred
!boxesof sukar, and the undertaking of the defendant, were made
and' entered into at one and .the same time, so as to. form one
The Judge then proceeded to sum. up the
entire transaction.'
evidence on this potnt and added-" The consideration for this
innertakink was the authority given by Belknap to George
to draw on the plaintiffs for one hundred thousand
) 'WVoI,
francs. This consideration, it ig true, although fully proved,
is not expressed in the-written contract. And one question is,
whether it can be supplied by paf'ol evidence; and I think it
mgy, if the undertakin.g of the defendant was entered into at

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

499

(D'Wolf vs. Rabn f ct al.)
the same time, with that between Belknap and GeorgeD'VWOlf,
so as to form one entire transaction. The evidence does not,
in any manner, contradict the written agreement- and is perfectly consistent with it; as between the plaintiffs and George
D'Wolf the consideration might be clearly supplied by parol
proof; and if the undertaking of the defendant was at the same
time, it required no consideration from the plaintiffs o- him,
the consideration to George D'Wolf was sufficient to uphold
and support the contract of the defendant." And he finally
stated if he was mistaken in this view of the evidence "aild
the jury should be.of opinion, that tlie contract between Bell
knap and George D'Wolf, uas completed, and unconnected
with the engagement of the defendant, before he undertook to
make the shipment and conjsignment; then the evidence was
not sufficient to maintain the present action. It'will then be a
collateral undertaking, made subsequent to the principal contract, and would require some other consideration than that
which supported the principal contract."
The question then, so far as it was a question of fact, whether the defendant did enter into the asserted agreement with
the plaintiffs and whether it was a part. of the originalarrangement, with George D'Wolf, and upon the original consideration moving from the plaintiffs, was before the jury, and-they
have found in the affirmative. The question of law remains,
whether this was a case within the statute of Frduds, so as to
prevent parol evidence from being admissible, to charge the
defendant.
The statute of Frauds of New-York, is a transcript, on this
subject, of the statute of 29th of Charles 9, ch. S. It declares
"that no action shall be brought to charge a defendant on a
special promise for the debt, default ov miscarriage of another,
unless. the agreement, or some memorandum or note thereof be
in writing and signed by the party, or by any one by him authorized." The terms "collateral" or "original" promise, do
not occur in the statute, and have been introduced by Courts
,oflaw to explain its objects and expound its true interpretation.
Whether by the true intent of the statute, it was to extend to
cases where the collateral promise, (so called,) was a part of the
original agreement, and founded on the same c6nsiderati6n
7noving at the same time between the parties; or, whether it
was confined to cases, where there was already"a subsisting
debt and demand, and the promise was merely founded upon
a subsequent and distinct undertaking; might, if the pointwere
entirely new, deserve very grave deliberation. But it hac been
closed within very narrow limits by the course of the aut'horities, and seems scarcely open for general examination, at least
in those states where the English -authoritiea have been fully

500

SUPREME COURT.

(D'Wolf w. Rabaud et aL)
recognised and adopted in practice. If A agree to advance B
a sum of money, for which B is to be answerable, but at the
same time it is expressed upon the undertaking, that C will do
some act for the security of A, and eitter into an agreement with
A for that purpose; it would scarcely seem a case of a mere
collateral undertaking; but'rather, if one might use the phrase,
a trilateral contract. The contract of B to repay the money,
is not coincident Nvith, nor the same contract with C to do the
act. Each is an original promise, though the one may be deemed subsidiary, or secondary to tlf other. The original consideration flows from A, not solely upon the promise of B or C,
but upon the promise of both, diverso intuita, and each becomes
liable to A, not upon a joint but a several original undertaking.
Each is a direct, original promise, founded upon the same consideration. The credit is not given solely to either,but to both;
not as joint contractors, on. the same c6ntract, but as separate
contractors upon co-existing contracts,forming parts of the same
general transaction. Of'that very nature is the contract now
before the Court; and if the intention of all the parties was, that
the letter of the 15th of November shoull be delivered to Belknap, as evidence of the original agreement between all the
parties, and indeed as part execution of it, to bind the defendant not merely ,to George D'Wolf, but to the plaintiffs;
(and so it has been established by the verdict-;) then it is not
very easy to distinguish the case from that which was put.
But assuming that the true construction of the statute of
Frauds is, as the authorities seem to support, and that such a
promise would be within its purview; it remains to consider
whether the arguments at the bar do establish any error in the
opinion of the Circuit Court.
In the first place, there is no repugnance between the terms
of that letter and the parol evidence introdaced. The object of
'the latter was to establish the fact, that there was a' sufficient
consideration for the.agreement; and what that consideration
-was, and also the circumstances under which it was written,
as explanatory of its nature and objects. Its terms do not necessarily import, that it wag an agreement exclusively between
George D'Wolf and the defendant. If the paper was so drawn up
andexecuted, by the assent of all the parties, for the purpose of being delivered to Belknap, as a voucher, and evidence to him of an
absolute agreement by the defendant to make the shipment, and
so was in fact'understood by all the parties at the time; there is
nothing in its terms inconsistent with such an interpretation.
'The defendant agrees to the shipment. But with whom? It is
,-said with George D'Wolf alone; but that does not necessarily
follow, because it is not an instrument in its terms interpartes.
If the parties intended that it should express the joint assent

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

50

(D'Wolf ve. Rabaud et al.)

of George D'Wolf and the defendant, to the shipment, and it
was deliverable to, Belknap accordingly, as evidence of their
joint assent that it should be-made upon the terms and'in, the
manner stated in it, there is nothing which-contradicts its proper purport; and it is then, precisely, what the parties require
it to be. It was for the jury to say, whether the evidence disclosed that as the true object of it; and to give it effect accordingly, as proof of an agreement in support of the declaration. The case of Sargent vs. Morris, (3 Barn. o.ld. 27)"furnishes no uninstructive analogy.for its admission.
In the next place, was the parol evidence inadmissible to
supply' the defect of thd written instrument, as to the consi eration, and res gesta?, between the parties. The case of Wain vs.
Warlters, (5 East, 10,) was the first case'which settled' the
point, that it .was necessary -to escape from the statute of
Frauds, that the agreement should contain the consideration
for the promise, as .well as the promise itself. If it contained
it, it has since been determined that it is wholly immaterial
whether the consideration b stated in express terms, or by ne-"
cessary implication. That case has from its origin encountered many difficulti&s, and been matter of serious observation,
both at the bar, and on the befich, in England'and America.
After many doubts, it seems at last in England, by -the recent
decisions of Saunders vs. Wakefield, (4 Barn. 4- .d. 595) and
Jenkins vs. Reynolds, (S Brod. 4 Bing. 14,) tohave settled down
into an approved authority. It has however assumed a uniform
recognition in America.; although in several of'the states, and
particularly in New-York, it has to a limited extent been adopted into its .Jurisprgdence,,as a sound construction of 'the statute. On the' other hand, there is a very elaboraie ob)inion of
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in Packard vs. Richard-,
son (17 fflas. 12,) where its authority was directly"overruled.
What might be our -wn view of the question, unalTected by
any local decision, it is unnecessary to suggest; because the
decisions in New-York, -upon the construction of its own statute, and the extent of the rules deduced, from it, furnish, in the
present. a clear. guide.for 'this Court In the case of "Leonaid"
vs. Vredenburgh, (8 John. R.- 29.) Mr. 'Chief Justice Kent, in
delivering the opinion of the Court, adverting, to the fact that
that case was one of a guarantee, or promise collateral to the
principal ontract, bur made at the same time, and becoming
an essential ground of the credit given to the principal or direct'
debtor; added, " and if theie was no consideration:other thE'n the
original transaction, the plaintiff ought to have been permitted to
show that fact if necessary by parol proof; and the .decision in
*Wain
not standwas,,
in thewhether
way." the parol proof
*One vs.
of Warlters,
the points did
in thdat.case

SUPREME COURT
(D'Wolf w. Rabaud et al.)
of the consideiation was not improperly rejected at the trial;
aud the'decision of the Court was, that it ought to have been
,admitted. It is not therefore, as was suggested at the argument,
a mere obiter dictum, uncalled for by the case. It was one,
ihough-not the only one of. the points in judgment before the'
Court. The same doctrine has been subsequently recognised
by the sam- Court in Bailey v8. Freeman, (11 Johns. j. 221,)
and in Nelson vs. Dubois, (13 Johns. .. 175.)
It does not seem' necessary to pursue this subject farther,
because here is a clear authority justifying the admission of
the parol evidence, upon the principal of the local jurispru.It seems to us a reasonable doctrine, founded in good.
.deuce
sense and convenience, and tending rather to suppress than
encourage fraud." But whether so, or not, it sustains the opinion of the Circuit Court, in a manner entirely free from exception.
The next objection to the charge, founded on the variance
between .the declaration and proofs, has been abandoned at the
argument, and need not be dwelt upon. And the last objection, to
wit., to the designation of a vessel 'Qr the shipment as ineffectually made, has been already in part answered; and we cntirely coincide with the views expressed on this point, by the
Cii'cuit Court.
Without, therefore going more at large into the points of the
case,' or commenting upon the various authorities and principles so elaborately brought out in the discussions at the bar,
it is sufficient to say, that we perceive no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is therefore to be affirmed
with costs.

