JANUARY TERM, 188.,

HEN1Y W RIGHTnWInLmAi

CAnOTHI.RS, ROBERT DENNISTON,.

WILLIAM PATTON, T-HowAs BunMAN, AND tmES ROBntTS01 .
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v8. Tnnz LEssEn OF LEv HOLLINGSWORTH, AND JOHN XAIGHN, DEFh DANT$ IN ERROR.

I a trial in air action of'ejectment, inwhich, according to the provisions
of the laws of Tennessee, the defendant was held to bail, the decliation stated two demises, by H. & K., citizens of Pennsylvania f and. the
other, the demise of B. & G. citizens of Massachusetts. The cause
qoming on for trial befofe- a jury,.th plaintiffs suffered a nonsut, which
was set aside; and the Court, on the motion of the-plaintiffs, permitted
the declaration to be amended, by dding a- count on the demise of S.,
a citizien of Missouri. The parties went tatrial without any other pleadiog; ahd, he jury found fo the plaintif, u pan.the tlih.
or liew count,
and Ajudgment was rendered in his favpur.' '
Ilie allowanceand refusil"of amendments in the pleadings-the granting
and refusing new trials; and most of the other incideiital orders, made in
the progress ofa cause, before trial; are 7nattrs so peculiarly addressed
to the pound discretion of the Courts of brigirni jurisdiction, as to be fit
for their decision lonly, under their own rqles and modes of practice;
This Court has always declined interfering in such cases.- 1168}
After the filing of a new.count to a declaration, tfe defendant, who to the
fornkr counts has ple.ded the general isgue or any particular .plea, may
withdraw the uame, and plead anew, either the general isset-, or any furthea or other pleas, which his case may require; but he may, if he'pleases, abide by his plea already pleaded, and v6ive hiq right of pleadin*,.de
novo. The fbare to plead, and goiqg to.tidal without objection, areheld
to bau waiver of his right to-plead, and an clectionto abide by his plea;
and if it, in terms, purports teago to (he whole action, it is deemed'sufficlent to cover the whole declaratQn 3and puts.the plaintiff to the prodf of
his case, in thi new, as well asin dhe*-old counts. 11691 '
THIS 'was an action of ejectment, commenced in the Cipuit Court for the district of West Tennessee, in 1813; ,by the
lessee of Levi Hollingsworth, and John Kaighn, citizens of the

state of Pennsylvania; against Henry Wright, and others, the

plaintiffs in error, and citizens of Tennessee. The declaratio.
set forth a demise from Hollingsworth and Kaighn, to Johii
•Denn, the defendant in error. A notice was served on the tenants in possession, Who, at June-term 1813, appeared, and
put in.the plea of. "not guilty." At J une teim'; 1817; after
a jury.had been sworn in the cause, the plaintiff suffered a nonauit; which was, afterwards set aside; and the plaintiff had
leave to add a new count to his declaFation, upon condition,
that all the costs of the term should.be'paid by him4'absolutely; and that he should'pay all preceding costs, the same to be
refundd if he should ultimately succeed in the action. A new

166

-

SUPREME COURT.

(Wright et a]. vs. The Lessee of Hollingsworth et al.)
count was then filed, in which is stated a lease from Benjanii
Spencer, a-citzen of Missouri. To this count no plea was filed;
and, at June term 1825, a trial was had, and a verdict and judgMent-were rendered for the plaintiff, upon the last count in the
declaration.
This writ of error was brought to reverse the judgment.
Mr. White, for the plaintiff in error, 1. No plea -wasfiled to the'additional count in the declaration,
upon which the trial was had, nor was there any other issue
joined at the trial.
2. The amendment, authorizing a new lessor, ought not tc.
have been allowed.
To the new count in the declaration, which introduced a
new lessor, Benjamin Spencer, and stated a demise from him;
the defendants were not called upon to plead. The case renmained from 1817, when the additional count was filed, until
June term 1825, when the trial took place; and the verdict of
the jury was upon the new count, and nothing was said upon
the Irmer counts in the declaration. The verdict was therefore given, when no issue was joined; and the plea which had
been put in originally could not be applied, without consent or
notice to the aefendants, to the new count. A new party had
been introduced, 'and the defendants should have been allowed
an option, :whether they would' expose themselves to the expenses of a trial, upon the allegations in the additional count.
The jury had not the count stating the demise from Benjamin
Sp&2 cer, before, them, and yet their verdict was upon it, e clusively. .damson Ejectment, 900. 205. 1 Caines' N.. .Term. Rep,
153. 251.
The terms on which thenonsuit was taken off, were, the payment of the-costs of the.term, absolutely; and of all antecedent
costs, which were to be returned, if a verdict should be obtained by the plaintiff in the ejectment. These costs were to. depend upon the issue between the then parties; but the verdict in
favour of the'plaintiff, upon the new count, condemned the defendants to pay the whole costs, upon an issue, not formed at
the time, the .Court took off the nonsuit; and upon the claim
of a party, not at that time known to the Court,
It does not appear from the record, that any ground was laid
for the amendment, and the Court ought to have been satisfied,.
before it was allbwed'; it would have been irregular to allow
the amendment without terms.
On the institution of the suit, a .apias ad res d n an,
thorized by the Act of Assekbly of -. ennessee, was issued,
against the tenant in possession, and bail given, to secure the
damages which might be reco~veredf; and the case -tood upon
the claims of the then actual parties in the cause.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.'

167

(Wright et al. v8. The Lessee of Hollingsworth et Al.)
A new plaintiff could not be introduced, who could claim the
benefit of the bail. 1 Scott's Revisal of the Laws of Tennessee.
Mr. Isaacs, for the defendants in error.No objections were made to this count, or to the issue at the
trial-no allegation of surprise, but the defendants produced
and examined their testimony; and the verdict was given without any exception to the pleadings.
1. It is not necessary that the record should show the grounds
on which the Court set aside the nonsuit, and afterwards allowed the amendment; they are stated to have been done after
motion, and a rule granted. The law of Tennessee authorizes
the Court to allow amendments, beyond the statutes of amendments, andjeofalee of England, " provided thl
it the nature of the
action shall not be cnanged; and all causes shall be tried, without being entangled in the nice formalities of pleading." (.ct
of .Sssemblyof Tennessee of 1809, chap. 49.) And the Courts ol"
Tennessee have given a most liberal construction to this law. '
2. A plea of "not guilty" had been put in, and issue joined
upon it. This plea traversed all the'facts in the plaintiff's declaration, and made the traverse as' broad as possible. The
plea put in to the. declaration, in its original form, was the
proper plea to the new count.
3. It is nt claimea, that the bail put in, when the suit was
commenced, inured to the benefit of Benjamin Spencer.
Mr. Justice TRIYnLE delivered the opinion of the Court.This action of ejectment, was commenced in the Circ4it
Court, held in East Tennessee, by suing ouit a writ of capias ad
respondendurn, accompanied with the' declaration; and the tenants in possession held' ,to bail, to answer to the action, ihthe
manner provided for by a statute of the state. The original declaration contained two counts ; the first, on the demise of,-Hollingsworth and Kaighn,.citizens of Pennsylvania; the second, on,
the demise of Joseph Blake and Daniel Green, citizens of Massachusetts.
The tenants appeared, and -pleaded not, giilty, upon which
issue was joined. A trial was had, and a 2wnsuit suffered by
the plaintiff, which was set aside on the payment of costs. Af.
ter these proceedings the Court, on the motion of the plaintiff;
permitted the declaration to be amended;.by adding a count.
on the demise of Benjamin Spencer, a citizen of Missouri. The
parties went to trial without any other pleadings, and a verdict
having been found for the plaintiff, upon the third or new count;
judgment was thereon rendered in his favour; to reverse whichthe defendants have prosecuted this writ of error.
They alledge the judgment is erroneous and should be reveised.-

168

SUPREME COURT.

(Wright t a]. vs. The Lessee of Hollingswdrth et-a.)
I stly. *Because, the count on which judgment was rendered
against them, does not show that Missouri is one of the United
States.
2dy. Because, the Court permitted the declaration to be
an~ended, by adding a new count, on the demise of Benjamin
Spencer; and especially as the amendment was permitted with
payment of costs.
Sdly. Because, no plea was filed to the new count, nor any
issue made up thereon.
The first objection was very properly not pressed, in argumett. The count alleges Benjamin Speticer to be a citizen of
the state of Missouri. .This count'was filed aftei M ssouri was
admitted as a state into the Union; and there can be no question but that this, and every other Court in the nation, are
bound to take notice of the-admission of astate, as-one of the
United States, without any express averment of the fact.
In"support of the second objection, it is urged that the admission-of:the new count, on the demise of a new lesior, made
a material alteration in the suit; that the suit htVing been ori,ginally commenced under the state practice, by writ of cap=
ad respondendum, to which the former lessors only were parties,
the amendment was, in substance, and effect, the institution of
a new suit, ori at least grafting a new one upon the old;, and pro.
du6cd an incongiu ity upon the record;' the first and second
counts, and the proceedings on them, being proceedings under
the statute, and tie third or niew count, a proceeding at cominon law; and, that according to established principles of practice, it should have been aIlowed, if -at all, only on payment of
costs.
Tfiis argument would be entitled to great, 'and perhaps decisive influence, if addressed to a Courti having any discretion
or power over the subjectof amendments.
But the allowance and refusal of amendments in the pleadings, the granting or refusing uew trials; and indeed, most
other ilcidental orders made int the pr6gress of a cause,
before trial; are matters, so' peculiarly'addressed to the sound
discretion of the Courts of original jurisdiction, as to be fit for
their decision only,' under their own, rule and modes of practice. Thisit is true, may, occasionally; lead to particular hardships; but on the other hand, thegeneralinconvenience of this
Court attempting o revise and c6irect all the interinediate proceedings in suits, between their commencement and final judgment, would' be intolerable., This Court hai always declined
interferiing in such ca§eg;.aucordingly -it was held by the Court
in Wood vs. Young, "4 Cranci, 237; that the refusal of the
Court below, to continue a caiise, after it is at insue, is not a
-matter upon which et'ror can be.assigned. That the refusal of

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

169

(Wright et al. vs. The Lessee of Hollingsworth et al.)
the Court below to grant a new trial, is not inatter for which
a writ of error lies, 5 Cranch, 11, 187, and 4 Whea. 20; nd
that the refusal of the Court below, to allow a plea to be amended, or a new plea to be filed, or to grafit a new trial, or to continue a cause, cannot be assigned as a cause of reversal or a
writ of error. We can perceive no distinction in principle between these cases, and the one before the Court. We must
take the declaration, including the amendment, as we find it
on the record. Nor can we interfere, because the Court below
did not, as it ought, require the costs formerly accrued, to be
paid as a condition of the amendment.
The authorities cited by the learned counsel, do not, we
think, support his last position ;--that the judgment is erroneous, because a plea was not filed to the new count. They
prove, unquestionably, that upon the amendment being made
to the declaration, by adding a count, the defendants had a
right to plead de novo; they prove nothing more. They do
not show that the defendants, in such cases, must necessarily
plead de nwvo; or that judgment may be entered by defaiilt, for
want of a plea to the new count, if, before the amendment, he
has pleaded the general issue. We think the practict is well
settled to the contrary. The defendant has a right, if he will,
c-6 withdraw his former plea, and plead afiew, either the general issue, or any further or other pleas, which his case may require; but he may, if he will, abide by his plea already pleaded, and waive his right of pleading de noco. His failure to
plead, 'and going to trial without objection, are held to le a
waiver of his right to plead, and an election to abide by his
plea; and if it, in terms, purports to go to the whole action,
as is the case in this instance, it is deemed sufficient to cover
the whole declaration ; and puts the plaintiff to the proof of
his case, on the new as well as on the old counts.
This is the general doctrine in other forms of action, such
as trespass and assumpsit; and we see no reason to distinguish
the action of ejectment, or take it out of the general rule.

Judgment affirmed with cost,s.

VOL. 1.

