SUPREME COURT.

CHARLES W. KARTHAUS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. FlANaiso0
YL. s Y FERRER AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
There is a class of cases, upon'awards, to be found inthe books, in which
arbitrators have been held to more than ordinary strictness, in pursuing
the terms of the submission, and in awarding upon the several distinct
matters submitted, upon the ground of this submission being conditional, ita quod. But the rule is to be understood, with this qualification;
that in order to impeach an award made in pursuance of a conditional
submission, on the ground of part only of the matters in controversy having been decided, the party must &sfindly show, that there were other
points in difference, of which express notice was given to the arbitratbrs;
and that they neglected to determine them. {227f
One partner, during the continuance of the, partnership, cannot bind the
other partner to a submission of the interests of both, to arbitration; but
he might bind himself, so as to submit his own interests to such decision.

12281
It is a settled rule in the construction of awards, that no intendment shall
be indulged to overturn an award, but every intendment shall be allowed
to uphold it 1228
If a submission be of all actions, real and personal, and the award be only
of actions personal, the award is good; for, it shall be presumed, no actions real were depending between the parties. {228}
When, upon a submission by one partner of all matters in controversy between the partnership and the person entering into the agreement of
reference; an award was made, directing the payment of money, in an
action on the bond, tb abide by the arard ; the breach assigned, was, that
the partner who agreed to the referenc6 did not pay, &c.; this is a sufficient assignment of a breach, as he only who agreed to the reference was
boundcto pay. .2311
ON the 16th of January 182S, the plaintiff in error gave an
arbitration bond, in the usual form, with sureties, to the defendants in error, in which it was set forth, thait, "whereas
certain disputes, differences, and controversies, have arisen, and
are still depending, between the above bounden Charles W.
Karthaus; acting for the late house of Charles W. Kartlais8
Co.and himself, -and the abovd nanea Francisco Yllas y Fer.rer, and Josef Antonio Yllas, for the ending and determining
the disputes, differences, and controversies, aforesaid, and all
actions, suits, clainis, and demands whatsoever, concerning the
same, the said parties have agreed to."
refer the same to the
award, jtkdgment, and determination, of Lewis Brantz and Henry Child, both of Baltimore, merchants; arbitrators indifferently chosen, and named by and on behalf of the said parties,
to award, order, arbitrate, judge, and determine, concerning
the same. And if the said arbitrators cannot determine the
* same, that then the same shall be fully ended and determined
by a third person, to be by them chosen as an umpire, in such

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

22

(Karthaus vs. Ferrer et al.)
manner as hereinafter is, in that behalf, mentioned and expressed.
"Now, the condition of this obligation is such, that if the
above bound Charles WV. Karthaus, his heirs, executors, administrators, and every of them, shall and do, for and on his
and their parts, in and by all things, stand to, obey, abide, perform, fulfil, and keep the award, arbitrament, order, determination, final end, and judgment, which shall be by them, the
aforesaid arbitrators, made, of and concerning the premises,
and of all disputes, differences, actions, suits, claims, and demands whatsoever, touching and concerning *ae same, so as
such award, arbitrament, determination, final end, and judgment of the said arbitrators, of and in the premises, be by
them made and given up in writing under both their hands and
seals, ready to b.e delivered to each of the said parties in controversy, in fifty days from the day of the date hereof.
"And if they the said arbitrators, of and in the said premises, cannot agree, end, and determine the same, in fifty days
from the day of the date hereof, that then if the said Charles
V. Karthaus, his heirs, executors, administrators, and every
of them, shall and do, for and on his and their parts, in and
by all things, stand to, obey, abide, perform, fulfil, and keep the
award, arbitrament, and umpirage, of the above named arbitrators, and such third person and umpire, as they-the said arbitrators shall indifferently name, elect, and choose, for the ending and determining the same premises, or a majority of them,
so as such award, umpirage, and judgment of the said arbitrators and umpire, or a majority of them, of and concerning the
same, be by them so made and given up in writing, under their
hands and seals, ready to be delivered to each of the said parties in controversy, in sixty days from the day of the date hereof, This obligation to be void and of no effect, otherwise the
same shall remain in full force'and virtue."
Upon this reference, the following award was made, under
the hands and seals of the arbitrators and the umpire.We, the undersigned, Henry Child, and, Lewis Brantz, as
arbitrators, and Michael M'Blair, as umpire, acting in virtue
of the annexed bond or instrument of writing, do hereby award,
and adjudge, that the late firm of Charles AV. Karthaus & Co.
pay, or cause to be paid, unto Francisco Yllas y Ferrer and Josel Antonio Yllas, or their representatives, the sum of four.teen hundred and seventy-five dollars, for a balance of the ge-,
.neyal account current between the parties; and also the sum of
thirteen hundred and ninety-eight dollars, for a balance arising
out of the moneys recovered for the brig Arogante Barcelonese and cargo; in which award, a parcel of cutlasses, or theit"

224

SUPREME COURT.

(Karthaus w.Ferrer et al.)
jroceeds, are considered as becoming the property of said
Yllas y Ferrer.
Given under our hands and seals, in Baltimore, this 8th of
March 1828.
To an action on the bond, against the plaintifi in error, he
pleaded the condition, and that no award had been made. The
defendants in error replied, and answered, and'setit out as stated;. and there was a demurrer to the replication, which the
Court overruled, and a judgment was entered for the plaintiff
below. In this judgment error was alleged; and before thys
Court, the plaintiff in error sought to maintain:1. That the award is not agreeable to the submission.
2. It is not certain, final, and mutual.
3. It directs an act to be done by strangers.
4. It is defective in other respects.
The case was argued by Mr. Hoffman, and Mr.Mayer, for
the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, for
the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error.The object of the submission was, to have all the matters
in controversy adjusted by the arbitrators, and the words "'certain disputes," so meant and intended, 2 Caines' Rep. 320. 15
John. Rep. 197. Com. D1ig. .Srbtration,4 D.
1. This was a submission between'all the parties, the plaintiff in error, and the firm of which he was, a member, there
being partnership and individual' disputes; and the award does
not apply to all, but only to the plaintiff in error. It should
profess to decide eyery'thing'in the premises.
The submission being conditional, ita quod,the referees were
bouncj to pursue, strictly, the submission in all its terms, and
to award on all matters submitted to them. 2 Gali8on's Re.
778: okes' Rep. Bascoe's case, 19S. 1. Salk. 70. Kyd on .dwar
176.
S9-. An award musf be so certain, that it may be pleaded in
bar, to an action against the parties to it; which is mot the fact
-in this case. I. It does not comprehend all the parties, nor de"cide upon all the subjects in dispute; it is uncertain and contradictory, and there are no averments in the replication which
will supply these deficiencies-there should have been an aver"ment as to the members'of the firm--as to the accounts, and
the transactions out of which the accounts grew. By no form
of pleading, could the plaintiff in error show he'had, in this
case, satisfied the claims of the defendant in ei.ro. The award
should have designated the claims on the plaintiff, individually, and on the firm; nor "does.itappear by it, that Charles W.
-Karthaus, and C. W. Karthaus & Co., were the same persons.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

125

(Karthaus vs. Ferrer et aL)
Cited, 1 .Bacon's.Ibr. .drbit. and .qward, pl. E. 1. 216. 1 Com.
Dig. 666. Tit. .dwd. pl. B. 4. 7 East, 81. 5 ffeat. S94.
In an action ofi an award, the plaintiff is not bound to set out
the particulars; but if he proceed on the bond, he must set out
the breaches with particularity.. The defendant may do it, but
it is the duty of the plaintiff; Eyd on .Awards, 195. That part
of the award, by which "a parcel of cutlasses, or their proceeds, are considered as becoming the property of the said
Yllas y Ferrer," is altogether uncertain. It does not state what
cutlasses, or what thelamount of the proceeds; considered as
the property of Yllas y Ferrer, were included, or referred to.
Mr. Wirt, for the defendants in error.The Court are always disposed to maintain awards, Caldwell on .rbiirations, 123.
The pleadings do not exhibit any thing from which error
can be imputed. The defendant should have rejoined, and shown
that there were other parties, and other matters, than those
stated in the award; having failed to do this, there is nothing
before the Court but the submission and the award; and there is
nothing to show, that there were other persons interested, and,
other matter to be acted on, but those stated in the award.
This form of pleading, is only waived when the submission
sets out every matter at large. Cited, IcYCl on d'wards, 171. 7

East, 81.
The firm is not a party to the submission; and the .partner
who submitted to the arbitration, will alone be bound by it,
and to pay the amount awarded, Kyd, 40. As to the set-off, in
such a case of individual and partnership accounts, cited 5 T.
Rep. 493. 6 T. Rep. 582-3.
Certainty, to a common interest only, is required in awards.
This award is sufficiently certain. .A]d,. 132. 1 Caines' Rep.
314, 315. 14 John. 108, 109.
If the awardbe certain in part, it may be executed for so much
as is certain; although another part is uncertain; unless the part
which is uncertain is the consideration for that which the uncertain part was given. 5 TFheat.409. The award here is entirely for
the defendants in error, and if any part of it is uncertain, which is
denied, the plaintiff in error cannot complain. 11 .- 7teat. 448.
The cutlasses and the proceeds are sufficiently designated, and if
they were not, it was for the plaintiff below, only, to complain.
Mr. Justice TRIMBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.This was an action of debt, brought by Francisco Yllas, and
Josef Antonio Yllas, against Charles V. Karthaus, on an arbitration bond, in the Circuit Court of the district of Maryland.
The defendant, after oyer of the condition of the bond,
pleaded, no award made.
&'c. The plaintiff replied, setting
Ff
VoL. I.

2-16

SUPREME COURT.
(Karthaus ws.Ferrer et Al.)

forth the award in hzec verbi, and assigning a breach; the defendants demurred geneally, and' the plaintiff joined in demurrer. The Circuit Court having given judgment, upon the
demurrer, in favourof the plaintiffs; the defendant ha brought
the case up, by writ c € error, for the consideration of this
Court.

The first and 'principal ground relied on by the plaintiff in
error, for the reversal of the judgment, is, that the award is
not agreeable to the submission, in this; that two several distinct controversies, the first between the plaintiffs and the late
house 6f Charles W. Karthaus & Co., and the second between
the plaintiffs and Charles V. Karthaus, individually, were submitted to the referees, and that they left the latter undetermined.
The condition of the bond, after reciting, that certain disputes,
differences, and controversies have arisen, and are still depending between the above bound Charles XV. Karthaus, acting for his
late house of Charles W. Karthaus & Co., and for himself and
the above named Francisco Yllas y Ferrer, and Josef Antonio
Yllas, &c., "refers the same to the referees named, and their
umpire, .and binds the said Charles X. Karthaus, &c. to
abide by and perform their award;" so as such awagd, 8c." of
the arbitrators, of and in the premises, be by them made and given
up in writing, under their hands and seals, ready to be delivered to each of the said parties in controversy, in fifty days."
The arbitrators, and their umpire, within the time limited
by the submission, made and delivered their award in writing,
under their hands and seals, in the following words, to wit:
"We, the undersigned, Henry Child and Lewis Brautz, as arbitrators, and Michael M'Blair, as umpire, acting in virtue of
the annexed bond, or instrument.of writing, do hereby award
and adjudge, that the late firm of C. X. Karthaus & Co. pay
to Francisco Yllas y Fefrer, and Josef Antonio Yllas, or their
representatives, the sum of fourteen hundred and seventy-five
dollars, for the balance of the general account current between
the parties, and also the sum of thirteen hundred and ninety-eight dollars, for a balance arising out of moneys received for
the brig Arogante Barcelonese, and cargo; in which award, a
parcel of cutlasses, or their proceeds, are considered as becoming *theproperty of the said Yllas y Ferrer."
It is plainly seen, from the face of the award, that the arbitrators have not contradistinguisled between Charles W.
Karthaus, as a member of the late-house of Charles W. Karthaus & Co., and Charles W. Karthaus, as an individdal, unconnected with his late house. The. argument is, that this
omission of the referees vitiates the award. It is said that this,
being a conditional submission, ita quod, the arbitrators were
bound to pursue the submission strictly, and to award, of and

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

27

(Karthaus vs. Ferrcr et A.)
concerning every intter rcferredb to tlhem. In support of this
argument, the counsel referred to Randall vs. Randall, 7 East,
80, and several other cases less apposite.
That there is a class of cases in the books, in which arbitrators
have been held to a more than ordinary strictness in pursuing
the terms of the submission, and in awarding upon the several
distinct matters submitted, upon the ground of the subihission
being-con.ditional, ita quod, is conceded. The case of Randall
vs. Randall is a leading case of that class. Lord Ellenborough,
C. J. in delivering the opinion of the Court, says: "The arbitrators had three things submitted to them; one was to determine all actions, &c. between the parties; another was to settle what was to be p.aid by the defendant for hops, -poles, and
potatoes, in certain lands; the third was to ascertain what
rent was paid by the plaintiff, to-the defendant, for certain other
lands. The authority given to the arbitrators, was conditional, ita quod, they should arbitrate upon these matters, by a certain day. The arbitrators have stopped short, and have omitted
to settle one of the subjects of difference stipulated for."
This. case *as adjudged, according to the rule laid down
in the books; that if the submission be conditional, so as the
arbitrator decide of and concerning tlhe premises, he must
adjudicate upon each distinct matter in dispute, which he has
noticed. EKd, 177.
But the rule is to be understood with this qualification; that
in order to impeach an award, made in pursuance of a conditional submission, on the ground only of part of the matters
in controversy having been decided, the party must distinctly
show, that there were other points in difference, of which express notice was given to the arbitrator, and that he neglected to determine them. Caldwell, 105. .RKd, 177. Cro. Car.216.
]3aspole's case, 8 Co. 98. Ingraham vs. Milnes, 8 East'sRep. 445.
That Lord Ellenborough understood and intended to apply
the rule, as thus qualified, in Randall vs. Randall, is manifest.
For Mr.Espinasse, in commenting upon Baspole's case, having
observed, that it is said i6T that case, that though there be many matters in controversy, yet if only one be signified to the
arbitrators, he may make an award for that, for he is to determine according to the allegata et probata-and it is in every
day's practice, that an award may be good in part, and bad in
part. Lo-d Ellenborough, in answer to that afgument, replies-"That is, where it.does not appear there is any notice to
the arbitrator, on the face of the submission, that there is any
other matter referred to him, than those.which are mentioned,
to him at the time of the reference. But here it does expressly appear, that there was another matter referred, on which
there is no arbitrament."

228

SUPREME COURT.

(Karthaus vs. Ferrer et al.)
this case, it is not pretended that any notice was given to
In'
the arbitrators of any other matter, unless that notice was given
on the face of the submission.
The question then is, does it distinctly appear, from the
face of the submission, that any other point of difference between parties, was submitted, and of which the submission itself gave the arbitrators notice, but which they have neglected to determine.
If, as the argument supposes, there was any point in difference, which concerned Charles IV. Karthans, individually, as
contradistinguished from the points in difference which concerned him as Charles W. Karthaus, of the late firm of Charles
V. Karthaus 8cCo., what was that point of difference?
No satisfactory axuswer has been given, and it is believed
none can be given, to this inquiry. How then can it be maintained, thata distinct point in difference between the parties
was referred, and by the reference itself notified to the referees,
Which they have neglected to determine ? The case of Ingraham
vs. Milnes is a strong authority to sh)w, that although the
submission be conditional, ija quod; there must be a distinct
specification, as in Randall vs. Randall, to sustain the objection,
that part has been omitted by the arbitrators. Here the submission is in very general, and, we think,in very vague and ambiguous terms. It speaks of disputes, differences, and controversies, between Charles W. Karthaus, acting for the late
house of Charles W. Karthaus & Co., and for himself and the
plaintiffs. But how, or in what he acted, for the one or the
other, is.not specified. The terms "late house," imply the
former existence, but present non-existence, of the late house
of Charles NV. Karthaus & Co. He may be the only surviying partuer, the firm having ceased, by the deathof the other
members. But if the firm was continuing, Charles W. Karthaus, while he must be admitted to be perfectly competent to
submit to reference his own intei'ests in the firm, could not,
by his submission, bind his partners. He might bind himself
to perform whatever the award directed the firm of which he
was a memberto do; so that, either way, it was a submission
of his own interest only. In order to overturn the award, it
isnot enough that he may have had different and distinct interests in his individual and in his partnership character. It is
a settled rule, in the construction of awards, that no intendment.ishall be indulged, to overturn an award, but every reasonable intendment shall be allowed, to uphold it. Thus, if a
submission be of all actions, real and personal, and the award be
only of actions personal, the award is good-for it shall be
Y esumed no actions real were depending between the parties.
d, 72, and Baspole's case, before cited.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

229

(Karthaus vs. Ferrer et al.)
So in this case, although the submission speaks,*in general
terms,*of disputes, differences, and controversies, with Charles
W. Karthaus, acting for his late house of C. W. Karthaus Sc
Co. and for himself; it shall not be intended there were any
controversies with C. W. Karthaus, individually, other than
those derided by the arbitrators. If any such did exist, inasmuch as they are hot specifically and distinctly set forth in the
submission, so as to give notice to the arbitrators, it was the
duty of the party to show, by averment and proof adunde, they
were brought brfore the referees.
There is no analogy between this case and Lyle vs. Rogers,
5 Wheat. 394, cited at the argument. In that case, it was decided, that where claims against a party, both in her own right,
and in her character of administratrix, were submitted to arbitrators, it was a valid objection to the award, that it awarded a
gross sum to be paid by her, without distinguishing between
what was to be paid by her-in her own right, and what in her
representative characier. The Chief Justiceiin delivering the
opinion of the Court, explains the reason and ground of the decision, by observing, "1if this award was.made against Mrs. Dennison, as administratrix, shd would not only be deprived by its
form, of the right to plead a full administration, (a defence
which might have been made before ihe arbitrators, and on
which their award does not show, certainiy, that- they have decided;) but alsd of the right to use it in the settlement of her
accounts, as conclusive evidence, that the money was paid in
her representative character. If this objection to the award is
to be overruled, it must be on the supposition that it is made
against her personally; yet the stitement of facts shows the
claim against her to be in her representative character." This'
reasoning cannot apply to the case before the Court. It is of
no sort of consequence to C. V. Karthaus, whether he is directed to pay as ChArles NV. Karthaus, individually, or as
Charles V. Karthaus, of his late house of C. W-. Karthaus &c
Co. In each case he is bound, personally, to pay, having bound
himself so to do by the submission; and the award, if in any
case it would be evidence for him against the firm, would not
be conclusive, as he had no power tobind his partners, if any
existed, by his submission. It is objected that the award is
not certain, final, and mutual. It was said, in argument, that"
as the first sum awarded, is expressed to be for a 11balanc6 of
the general account current, between the parties; the general
account current, must be understood to include all accounts be- tween them; and hence, that the second sum awarded, for a
balance arising out of moneys received for the brig Arogante
Barcelonese, is included in the first, and the party thus twice
charged; or at least, that it does not certainly appear otherwise."

SUPREME COURT.
(Karthaus vs.Ferrer et al.)

We think there is no foundation for this argument. To indulge such a supposition, would impute either manifest injustice, or gross negligence, to the referees. Great stress was laid,
in the argument, on the uncertainty of the closing clause of the
award, in these words, "in which award,- a parcel of cutlasses
are considered as becoming the property of said Yllas y Ferrer." There is considerable doubt and uncertainty, as to the
meaning of the arbitrators, in the use of these terms. And
had this uncertainty appeared in any part of the award, intended for the benefit of the defendant, it would, perhaps, be fatal
to the wLole award. Had that been the case, it would be hard
and unjust, to -compel him to perform that part of the award
which is otierous to him, when he could not have, on account
of its uncertainty, that which would be beneficial to him. But,
however doubtful the precise intent and meaning of -this part
of the award may be, it is certain; it was intended as a benefit
in surme way, to Yllas y Ferrer, over and above the two sums
of money directed to be paid to the plaintiffs. The defenaant
can have no reason to complain that the plaintiffs, or either of
them, may not, on account of this uncertainty, be able to obtain
all the benefits intended by the award; nor can it furnish any
reason for withholding from them, that to which they are certainly entitled.
It is deemed a sufficient answer, to the objection of want of
mutuality in the award, to remark, that great stress was laid,
in the early cases, upon the mutuality of an award; but at present, itis by no means considered necessary that each party
should be directed to do, or not to do, any particular thing,
Cald. 118. Two had submitted to an award; nothing was
awarded as to one party, but that all actions should cease.
The Court held it a good award, Harris v8. Knight. 1 Levz, 58.
In Palmer's case, 10 Mod. 234, one party was directed to
pay money to the other, without any directions being given to
the latter in any way; and, again, it was awarded that A should
pay B 40 shillings for a trespass; Freema, 204. The respective
awards were considered unimpeachable. These cases fully
establishi the principle above laid down. An award is regarded as final, when it is an absolute conclusive adjudication of the
matters in dispute; and there is no reason to doubt the conclusiveness of the adjudication in this case, as to the two sums of
money directed to be paid; and that the award will operate as
a bar to any future litigation, upon the accounts for which they
are given. Again: It is objected that the award directs an act
to be done by strangers. This objection groi. out of the direction in the award, that "the late firm of C. V. Karthaus &
Co. pay, &c." Whatever might be the force of this objection,
if it Were true in point of fact, we cannot so regard it. So, far as

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

231

(Karthaus vs. Ferrer et aL)
appears upon the record, the late firm or house of C. W. Karthaus Sr Co. and C. V. Karthaus are one and the same person;
or more properly speaking, it does not appear that there is any
other person, in esse, belonging to that firm, than C. IV. Karthaus himself. If there be any other person, in esse, of the late
house of C. W. Karthaus S Co. it cannot be truly affirmed that
he, and the house of which he was a partner, are strangers to
each other. But we cannot, consistently with the rules of
law, presume or intend there is any other; indeed, in support
of the award, it may reasonably be intended there is not, as the
party objecting was cognizant of the fact, and might have
shown it, if true, but has not. The direction that the late firm
of C. W. Karthaus & Co. shall p a y, unquestionably includes
C.-NV. Karthaus; and no other person appearing to exist, it is
equivalent to a direction that he shall pay. This reason is applicable to the last ground assumed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, for a reversal of judgment; namely, that the replication is insufficient, because, in assigning a breach, it only
alleges C. V. Karthaus had not paid. As no other was, or could
be bound by the submission and award, to pay, and he.was
bound; it was a sufficient assignment of a breach of the condition of his bond, to allege that he had not paid the money,
awarded *infavour of the plaintiffs.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of this Court, that there is
no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and the same is
affirmed. uiith costs and damages.

