JANUARY TERM, 1828.

JOHN DAVIS AND' OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN E

tRo0, vs. Ritimuy

B. MAsoN, LESSEE.
In an action of ejectment to recover land in Kentucky, the law of real estate in Kentucky, is the law of this Court, in deciding the rights of the
parties., {5051
It 8&n=, that the rigid rules of the common law do not require that the
- husband shall have had actual seisin of the lands of the wife, to entitle himself to a tenancy by courtesy, in waste, or what is sometimes styled
"wild lands." {506.
If a right of entry on lands exists, it ought to be sufficient -to sustain th e
tenure acquired by the husband, where no adverse possession e~xsts.
1508}
At present it is fully settled in equity, that the husband shall have couftesy
of trust as well as of legal estates, of an equity of redemption, of a contingent use, or money to be lid out in lands. 15081
Under the law of the state of Kentucky, and the decisions of their Courts
upon it, a will with two witnesses, is sufficient to pass real estate ; and
the copy of suoh a will, duly proved and recorded in another state, is
good evidence 6f the execution ofthe will. 1508}
It is a settled rule in Kentucky, that although more than one witness is required to subscribe a will disposing- of lands, the evidence of one may
be sufficient to prove it. {5091
THE lessee of Richard B. Mason commenced an action of
ejectment in the Circuit Court for the district of Kentucky,
against John, Davis and others tenants in possession, for the
recovery of eight thousand acres of land, claiming to recover
the same under a right of entry under, and by virtue of a grant
from the state of Virginia to George Mason.of Fairfax, dated
19th of March 1817.
'illiam
Mason and others conveyed, by deed; their interest
in and to the land in contest, (they being children of the patentee,) to George Mason of-Lexington, the eldest son of George
Mason the patentee. George Mason, the grantee and the father
of the lessor died the
day of December 1796, having first
made his last-will and testament; in X codicil to which, made
on the 3d of November 1796, he devised to the child of which
his ,wife was then ensient, his Kentucky lands,' I if- the, child
should be born alive, and arrive at the age of twenty-one years,
or married, whichever may first happen." Richard B. Mason,
the lessor of the plaintiffi, is, by the evidence in the cause, the
posthumous child referred to in the codicil. This will was fully
proved, and admitted to record, according to the laws of Kentucky, and.was said to vest the title in RichardB. Mason.
At the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs
in error requested the Court, by instructions to the jury, ist,

SUPREME COURT.
(Davis et al. v. Mason,)

To exclude the depositions of Lund Washington and George
Graham, on the alleged ground that they were not taken and
cerified'according, to law.
2d.. To exclude what the defendants designated as "the
third codicil" annexed to the will of George Mason, which. it
was said.was not proved and certified according to law.
3d. That th plaintiff could not recover, unless he could
3how that the land sued for,, was entered after George Mason
the elder made his will, and not patented at his death.
4th.. That if from the evidence they believe that the daughters of the patentee were dead 'before the commencement of
this suit, they'should find for the defendants, as the deed from
the husblands did not pass the interest of the femes; nor had
the husbands a right bycburtesy to the lands, as they never had
other or further possession of the lands, than that given by
deed. '
The Court refused to give the several instruictions prayed
for, and a bill of exceptions was tendered, upon whiqh the
case was brought before this Court. The facts of the case
which appeared upon the record,.in connexion with the matters contained in the exceptions, are stated in the opinion of
the Court.
The defendants in error insisted, 1st, That the Court should
have excludd the third codicil. It was not, upon proof, ordered to be recorded by the County Court of Fairfax county. It
is not certified, as having been proved, and ordered, or admitted to record. It was not proved upon the trial, by any admissible and competent proof, to have been executed by George
Mason.
2d. That there was no competent proof upon the trial, that
the land in 'contest passed'by conveyance to George Mason. It
does not appear that they were not patented before the date of
the will of George'Mason, and otherwise disposed of by him
in his will. The plaintiff should have proved that the lands
were acquired by the said George Mason after his will, and
not having done so, the C76urt should have given the instructions asked for, on-that point, by defendants.
"Sd.. The Court erred in stating to the jury, that the deed
conveyed to George Mason, the courtesy right of the husbands
of the ferne coverts, daughters of George Mason sen.
4th. The Court erred in refusing to give the instrucionb
asked for by defendants, upon the other points stated in the bill
of exceptions.
The case was argued by Mr. Rowan for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Wickliffe for the defendant in error. In reference to the rigits of the husbands in the estates of their
wives, Mr. Wickliffe cited 3 Bos. 4- Pull. 643.

JANUARY TERM, 1?28.

505

(Davis et al. vs. Mason.)

Mr. Justice JoHmNoN delivered the opinion of the Court:-.
The plaintiffs here were defendants below, to an action of
ejectment, brought to recover eight thousand acres of land
lying in the state of Kentucky.
The law of real estates in Kentucky, therefore, is the law of
this Court, in deciding on the rights of the parties. The plaintiffs below- derives title under, 1st, a patent to George Mason
of Gunston, issued in 1787-2d, a deed of bargain and 'ale,
from s.even out of nine legal representatives of the patentee,
their brother, to George Mason of Lexington, executed in
1794-3d, a codicil to the will of George Mason of Lexington,
devising the premises to the lessor of the plaintiffs. Judgment
was rendered for plaintiffs, to recover eight-ninths of the premises. The defendants below relied on their possession, affect;
ing to claim through the patent to the -elder Mason; but adducing no evidence to connect themselves with it. The questions to be here decided are brought up by a bill of exceptions,
taken by the defendants below; and they will be considered, as
they regard the deduction of title, in the order in whicfi they
have been stated above.
The first question in this order, relates to the deed executed,
by the representativesof Mason the elder, to Mason the younger.,iinder whose will the lessor of the plaintiffs makes title. No
exception was taken to the proof, upon which this deed went
to the jury. The exceptions go to the nature, and extent of
the estate, which passed under it. And first, it was insisted,
that it could pass nothing, unless the plaintiffs should show;
that the land sued for was entered after George Mason senior
made his will, and not patented at his death; on the ground
that, otherwise, it passed under his will, and did not descend
to these donors.
But it is obvious that this instruction was peoperly refused,
since the fact nowhere appears in the record that the elder
Mason ever made a will competent in law to transfer real estate. The deed, it is true, purports to carry into effect his intentions towards his children; but non constat, whether that
intention had ever been signified, otherwise, than by parol or
by an informal wilL 'If a will had ever been executed, with
the formalities necessary to defeat the heir at law, the defendants should haye availed themselves of it by proof.
The next instruction prayed for by defendants, and rejected
by the Court, was; "that if from the evidence, the jury believed that the daughters of the patentee were dead, before the
auit was brought; that then they ought to find for defendants,
ts to the undivided interest of such daughters, and that the
.Ieed did not pass their'interest. The Court instnucted the
Vray. T.
SS

SUPREME COURT.
(Davis et aL. vs. Mason.)

jury, that the deed did not pass the interest of the daughters,
but passed the ihterest of their husbands, wh6 were tenants by
courtesy; although they had never had other or further possession of the land, than what they acquired by deed.
To understand this part of the bill of exceptions it is necessary to notice, that from the record it appears. that among the
parties of the first part to the deed to G. Mason the younger,
were four daughters of G. Mason the elder, and their husbands;
that the daughters had formally executed a release of inheritance, under a commission issued from a Court in Virginia;
but because the states were then separated; as a judicial proceeding, it had no validity as to lands in Kentucky; and the
lessor of the plaintiffs was compelled to stand upon the inteest conveyed to him by the deeds of the husbands, as tenaut
by the courtesy.
In order to prove the pedigree of the donors, the marriage,
birth of issue, &c., and of the sons-in-law of the elder Mason,
the testimony of two witnesses was- introduced by plaintiffs,
taken under the Act of Congress. To theintroduction of this
testimony an objection was made and overruled; and this constituted another- ground, of exception, which however has been
very properly waived by the counsel in argument here. It appears that the requisitions of the Act have been well complied
with..
This testimony, besides establishing the pedigree, marriage,
'and birth of issue &c.; of the husbands and their wives, and
identity of the lessor of the -plaintiffs, as devisees of G. Mason the younger, also goes to prove the death of some, if not
of all fbe daughters; and the exception is intended to raise the
question, whether in the absence of evidence of actual seisin,
the, husbands- had good estates as tenants by the courtesy, in
the portions of the land belonging to their respective wives; if
they had not, then by the death of their wives,, their estates
were determined. To kepel this objection to the vesting of the
estate by the courtesy,, evidence is introduced into the bill of
exceptions'to prove, that "the adverse possession of the premises, relied onby the defendants, did ibt commence until aftertjhe execution of the deed, and after the death of George Mason;
in other words, that the land was waste, or as is sometimes
styled, wild land,' at the time of executing the deed, and at
all times before and down to the time of the devise, from George
Mjason jun. to the lessors of the plaintiff took effect.
It is belidved that the rigid rules of the Common Law, have
never been applied to a wife's estate .in lands of this description. In the state of New-York (8 John. Rep. 271) these rules
have been solemnly ripelled; and we know of no adjudged case,
in iny of the state's, in which they have been recognised as ap-

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

50T

(DaVIsht aL vs. Mason.)
plicable. It would indeed be idle to compel an heir or purchaser.
to find his way through pathless deserts, into lands still overrun
by the aborigines, in order to "1break a twig," or "1turn a sod,"
or "read a deed," before he could acquire a legal freehold. It
may be very safely asserted, that had a similar state of things
existed in England when the conqueror introduced this tenure;
the necessity of actual seisin, as an incident to the husband's
right, would never have found its way across the channel.
It is true, that Perkins and Littleton, and other authors of
high, antiquity, and great authority, lay down the necessity of
actual seisin, in very. strong terms, and exemplifyit, by cases,
which strikingly illustrate the-doctrine. But, even they, do not
represent it as so unbending as to be uncontrouled by reason.
The distinction is taken, between things which lie in livery
and things which lie in grant; and with regard to the latter,
the seitin in law, is enough, because they admit of no other;
'and as Lord Coke observes "the books say it would be un;
reasonable the husband should suffer, for what no industry
of his could prevent;" and further "that the true reason is,
that the wife has those inheritances which lie in grant, and not
in livery, when the right first descends upon her, for she hath
a thing in grant when she has a right to it, and nobody else interposes to prevent it." And in another place he- says "a hus:
band shall be tenant by courtesy, in respect of his wife's seisin
in law, where it wasimpossible for him to get an actual seisin, "
for "the favour which the law shows to the husband that has
issue by his wife shallnot be lost without some default in him." So
when describing what is livery of seisin, and defining the distinction between livery and deed, and livery inlaw, he says of
the latter "if the feoffee claims'the laid, as near as he dares
to approach it, for fear of death or battery, such entry in law
shall execute the livery in law."
And as a proof that even in his time the Common Law'had
begun to untrammel itself of the rigorous rule, that livery of
seisin, or entry, was indispensable to vesting a freehold ;-the
fact may be cited, that livery of seisin was held unnecessapy
to a fi-, devise, surrender, release or confirmation to lessee
for years. The niode of conveyance, by lease and release, and
some other modes, it is well known, arose° out of an effort to
disembarrass the transfer of titles, of an-idle form, which had
survived the feudal system.
As it relates to the tenure by courtesy$ the necessity of entry
grew out of the rule, which invariably existed, that an entry
must be made in order to vest a freehold; (Co. Lit. 51,) and out
of that member of the definition of the tenure by courtesy, which
requires that it should be inheritable by the issue. 'When a 'de-.
,..cent was cast, the entry of thE mother was necessary, or tbe

508

SUPREME COURT.

(Davis et al. w. Mason.)
heir made.tite direct -from the grandfather, or other person
last seised.
But in Kentucky, we understand, the livery of seisin is unheard Ef.Freeholds are acquired by patent, or by deed, or
by descent, without any further ceremonies; and in tracing pedigree, the proof of entry, as successive descentsare cast, is never considered as necessary to a recoveryor in any mode affecting the course of descent.
If a right of entry therefore exists, it ought by analogy to be
sufficient to sustain the tenure acquires by the husband, where
no adverse possesgion exists; as it is laid down in the books relative to a seisin in law 1"he has the thingi if he has a right to
have it." Such was-not the ancient law; but thd reason of it
has ceased.. It has been shown, that in the most remote periods,
exceptions had been introduced on the same ground; and in
the most modern, the rulehas been relaxed upon the same consideration. We ought not to be behjiid the British Courts in
the liberality of our views, on the subject of this tenure. A
husband, formerly, could not have courtesy -of an use; that is,
where his wife was cestuy que use (Perkins's Ourtesy, fo. 89,),
and this continued to be th6 law, down to the time of Baron
Gilbert: (Law of VUses and Trusts, 239,) at present it ir-y
settled in equity, that the husband shall have courtesy of a
trust, as well as of a legal estate, (2 Vern. 536. 1 P. fV. 108.
.6tk. 606,) of art equity of redemption, a contingent use ;.or
money to be laid out in lands.
The case made out in the bill of exceptions; is one in which
there could not possibly have been any default in the husbands,
since the disseisin. by defendants, did not take place until after
the death of George Mason jr..and of consequence, after the
trpnsfer of title by the husbands, and after the devise took effect
in favour of the plaintiff's lessor.
These points being disposed of, it only'remains to consider
the questions raised upon the introduction of the will of George
Mason jr. or'rather of the codicil, under which the lessor of
the plaintiffs makes title.
Under: a law of the state of Kentucky, and the decision of
their Courts upon it, a will with two witnesses, is sufficient to
pass real estate; and the copy of such a will, duly proved and
recorded in another state, is good evidence of the execution of
the will.
The objection here is, that it does not appear from the exemplified copy, that this codicil was duly proved ;--because the
probate does not go to that codicil, but to another; and secondly,
because it appears to'have been admitted to record on the testimony, of d single witness.

JANUARY TERM, 1895.

509

(Davisct-al. vs. Iason-)
The probate purports "that the two codicils were proved
by the oath of Daniel M'Carty." From the exemplification it
appears, that at three several dates the testator, added to his
will, what he calls codicils, but as there is no signqture to the
first, we are satisfied that the first and second Vere well considered as .making but one; and therefore that the probate although purporting to go to two codicils cnly, was well considered as going to this; which but for the want of the signature
to the first, would have been the third codicil. What is decisive on this subject, is, that the first two codicils have no subscribing witness, distinct frofm the last;--and the .name of
M'Carty, the witness sworn, is subscribed to the second, or*s
the defendants contend it should be considered, to the thirdcodicil.
With regard to the second exception to the sufficiency of
the proof of this codicil, it can only be necessary to resort to
:adjudged cases, as they seem conclusive to this point.
There were two witnesses to this codicil, to 'wit, Thompson
Mason and M'Carty. M'Carty only was sworn, and the probate
upon which it was ordered to be recorded, imports, that the
two codicils were proved by the oath of Daniel MiCarty In
the case of Harper et al. is. Wilson et al., decided in the Court
of Appets of the*state of Kentucky, in 1820, in which the
right to lands was in controversy, Ihe probate was in these
wNorcs, "this will was produced in Court proved by thd oath
of Sarah Harper, a subscribing witness thereto, and ordered to
be recorded." There was another subscribing witness to thwill, and exception was taken to the sufficiency of the proof.
The languaie of the Court in that case was. "1As to the prool
of the execution of the will it need only be remarked that it,
admission to record, is suffidient to show that the wyitness b%
, ihom it was proven in that Court, established every fact essential to its due execution; and it is a settled rule, that alth6ugh
more than one witness is required to subscribe'a willdisposing of lands, the evidence of one may be suffidient to prove it."
(2 "31arsha1d467.)The'same doctrine has been since fully reognised in the case of Turner vs. Tuimer, (1 Zit. Rep. 103,)
adjudged in the same Courtein 18209; and the identity of the
certificate and facts in this'case with thbse-in the case of Har,
per vs. Wilson, leaves nothing for this Court to deliberate upoA.
Theye is spread uponlthb reco:d, a considerable body of testimony, taken by the Court. by which the will had been priviously admitted to record, andiwhich upon the face of it,' appears to have been taker in order to remove all doubt on the
sufficiency of the will, and authenticity orthd attestations to it.
Bu't as it does not appear to have been folldwed up by anv order

510

•SUPREME COURT.

(Davis et al. vLs.Mason.)
of that Court, it was not taken into view in the bill-of exceptiQns, and made no part of the evidence in the Court below.
It thereforn only required this remark iii order to prevent any
misapprehension on this point.
We are of opinion that there was no error in the judgment
below and that it be affirmed with costs.

