SUPREME COURT.

JUNIUS K. HORSBURG, DEViSEE OF JAMES HENDERSON, AIPPELLANT, VS. MARTIN BAKER AND HANNAH HIS WIFE, FRANCIS
CLARK, ROBET BOYCE, AND PETER MASON, FOR HIMSELF, AND
AS GUARDIAN TO SUSANNAH R. HAMLEF.TT.
A Court of Chancery, is not the proper tribunal to enforce a forfeiture; the
reeedy for the same being at law. {236}
After an answer and discovery, the rule is, that a.suit brought, merely for
discovery, cannot be revived. The object is obtained, and the plaintiff
has no motive for reviving it. 1236}
A bill had been filed originally for discovery, and afterwards became a bill
forrelief. The relief prayed for, was afoiTeiture'; which might be enforced
at law. Under such. circumstances, it was proper to dismiss the bill, so
far as it sought for relief againstthe forfeiture; but the dismission should
have been without prejudice to the legal rights of the parties, as an absolute dismission might be considered as a decree against the title -theplain.
tiff claimed, and which, by the bill and the evidence obtained under it,
he sought to establish. {2361
ON an appeal from the Circuit Court, for the district of
Kentucky. The facts and the pleadings in the case, are fully
stated in the opinion of the Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Wickliffe, on the part of the
appellants; no counsel, appearing for the appellees. The following points were stated in the argument, by Mr. Wickliffe.1. The loan made in 1784, and as further evidenced, by the
deed of confirmation of 1787, was valid, as between the parties
to it; -and as Baker and wife are proved, in 1813, to be in possession of the negroes, and of a copy, or the original deed of 1781
is admitted, they are estopped from asserting any title to said
slaves, which they may have had prior to that deed.
2 The deed of 1787, having been duly recorded in the proper office, on the 4th of July 1787, was notice to all the world;
and the subsequent rem6val of the slaves out of the state of
Virginia, without the knowledge and consent of Hosburg, did
not destroy the legal effect of that deed, or convert the loan into
an absolute title, in Baker and wife.
S. Baker and wife cannot rely upon the lapse of time, or the
length of possession, to defeat the right of Horsburg, aid those
claiming under them.
4. The Court, in this cause, had jurisdiction upon two
grounds; the one, arising from the nature of the contract, and
its subject matter; the other, from the peculiar circumtances
of the case, the difficulty of proving and identifying the slave
Charlotte and her increase, without the aid of a discovery on
oath; and the repeated attempts by the defendants, and the just

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

33

(Horsburg vs. Baker et al.)
fears of the complainant, that the negroes would be secreted,
and removed out of the jurisdiction of the Court.
When Courts of Chancery take jurisdiction upon the ground
of discovery, or -upon any other ground, they will retain the
cause for the purpose of granting full relief.
By the Adt of Assembly of Virginia, of 1758, a parol gift of
slaves was void. 1 9 'dsh. Rep. 539, ssi.
The parties to a trust of real or personal property, may resort to a Court of Equity to avail themselves of'its benefits. I
Mad. Chancery, 446.
Between the cestuy que trust, and his trustee, the statutes of
limitation, or lapse of time, are no bar. 1 Alad. 453. 2 Tez. 680.
Baker and wife were trustees of the slave and her issue,
for the persons entitled to the reversion of them, under the
deed of Alexander Horsburg; and they were not authorized to
dispose of them; and the sale made by them, while the suit wds
pending, was void as to the cestuy que trust. 2 Johns. Ghan. Cas.
441.4 Aid. 136.
As to jurisdiction in this cause, and it being a case for relief
in Chancery. 3 Vezjun. 71.
Slaves, the property of the wife, vest in the husband without
being redelmed into possession. 1 Ar. Rep. 517.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHAWL

delivered the opinion of 'the

Court.In the year 1813, James Henderson and his wife, filed their
bill in the Court of the United States, for the seventh circuit,
and district of Kentucky, stating, that Alexander Horsburg,
the former husband of the plaintiff, did, by deed, bearing date
the 25(h day of April, in the year 1787, confirm to Martin Baker, and Hannah his wife, for their lives and the life of the survivor, then residing in the county of Halifax, in Virginia, anegro girl named Charlotte, previously loaned to them; (which
deed was recorded,) reserving to himself and his heirs, the reversion of the said slave, and her 'increase; and prohibiting any
alienation of them, under the penalty of forfeiting the loan.
This deed was recorded on the 4th day of July 1787, in the
Court of Hustings, for the town of Petersburg; the town in
which the said Horsburg resided. The bill further states, that
the said Alexander Horsburg departed this life in the year 1798,
having first made his last will in writing, whereby he bequeathed the residue Qf-his estate to his wife, who afterwards intermarried with the plaintiff, Jaines Henderson.
The bill proceeds to state, that Martin Baker and wife have
removed to Keitucky with the slave Charlotte, and her increase.
whom they profess to hold as their absolute property; and
that the plaintiffs fear, that they will be secreted, or conveyed
VOL. T.
G g

234

SUPREME COURT.
(Horsburg vs. Baker et al.)

"out of the state to places unknown. The plaintiffs further al
lege, that they are unable to prove the identity of the said
slaves, and pray that the said Baker and wife may be compelled .to discover their number, and names; and may be decreed

to give security for their forthcoming, when the life estate
should determine.
The Court awarded An injunction, to restrain the defendants
from removing Charlotte, and her issue, out of the state.
In May 1814, the plaintiff, James Henderson, ffled an amended and supplemental bill, stating -the death of his wife, and
praying that the suit might be continued in his name. The

bill also states, that Baker and wife had sold Charlotte and her
increase to Francis Clarke and Robert Boyce; who intend removing them out of the state, and concealing them. It prays
that the slaves maybe rendered to the plaintiff, and that Clarke
and Boyce may be restrained from removing them. The Court
extended the injunction to the other defendants. The defendants, Baker and wife, file their answer denying the loan; and
insisting that certain friends of the defendant, Hannah, sub.cribed the sum of forty-three pounds, which was placed in
the hands of Alexander Horsburg, to purchase the slave Charlotte. for her. They insist on their title, but give.a full description of all the descendants of.Charlotte.
• The defendants, Clarke and Boyce, also deny the right of
the complainant.
In 1817, the plaintiff again amended his bill, and charged.
that Baker and wife had brought the deed from Horsburg with
them into Kentucky; as their title to Charlotte.
In November 1819, Junius K. Horsburg appeared, by his attorney, and leave was given him to file a bill of revival. The
bill is filed by tie said Horsburg, as the administrator and de- isee of Jdmes Henderson, and as the heir and only child of
Mrs. Henderson, the wife of the said James, and the former
wife and devisee of Alexander Horsburg.
The bill recites the previous proceedings in the cause--exhibits the will of James Henderson, and his letters of adminis,
tration, and charges the sale to Boyce and Clarke, since the institution of this suit, who purchased at a low price, with the
intention of removing the slaves beyond the jurisdiction of the
Court.
In answer to this bil!, Baker and wife say, that, in the year
1773, Thoma5 Simmons, and others, named in the answer, contributed forty-three pounds, for the purpose of purchasing a
negro girl, for the sqid Hannah, which sum was placed in the
hands of Alexander Horsburg, as their agent, with instructions
to convey the said negro to the *defendants for their lives, and
to their children, after the death of the survivor. They believe

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

235

(Horsburg vs. Baker et al.)
this plan was adopted, for the purpose of protecting the pro,
perty thus given by her friends, from the creditors of her husband. Under these instructions, Charlotte was purchased, and
delivered to them.' In the year 1787, after the defendants had
been in peaceable possession of Charlotte, about fourteen years;
the said Horsburg, without any previous communicatipn of any
sort, sent to them, then residing in Halifax, about 120 miles
from Petersburg, the deed; a copy whereof is annexed to their
answer. They also say, that, on the same day, the said Horsburg executed another writing, obliging himself to convey
Charlotte and her increase, after the death of the defendants,
to their children, to which they refer, as being filed in the office
of the Circuit Court for the county of Garrard. They also refer to a letter, written by the said Horsburg, which they say
was given up to be filed in the cause.
In May 1824, leave was given to file an amended bill, ant)
the cause was sent to the rules for further proceedings.
The amended bill charges, that Clarke and Boyce purchas-ed, not only pending the suit, but with knowledge in fact thereof;-that they purchased the said slaves for a trifle, less thain
half their value, in consequence of an agreement to take upon
themselves the risk of the title.
The deposition of John T. Mason states, that the deponent, as counsel for the original plaintiff, called on the defendants, Baker and wife; who, after some time, admitted, that they
claim Charlotte and her offspring, under a deed, from Alexander Horsburg, which they showed him.
It is a copy,, or the original of the deed, filed in the cause.
They also showed the witness several other papers and letters in
relation to the subject, and particularly two letters from Alexander Horsburg, which he believes to be the same, or to the same
purport, with those filed in the cause.
The copy of the deed of 1787, recorded in the Court for the
own of Petersburg, is filed, together with the will of Alexanander Horsburg, and of James Henderson; but neither the subsequent deed, stated in the answer of Baker and wife to have
been executed by Alexander Horsburg, for the purpose of
.,ecuring Charlotte and her offspring, to the children of Baker and wife, nor the letters from Horsburg, are found on the'
record.
The last amended bill was taken for confessed, and the cause
set down for hearing. The Court directed the bill to be dismissed.
Baker and wife being alive, the plaintiff could have no pretence to recover the slaves claimed by the amended bill, except
nuder the clause of forfeitvure for alienation, whi'.h the deed
contains.

SUPREME COURT
(Horsburg w. Baker et al.)
As a Court of Chancery is not the proper tribunal for enforcing forfeitures, no decree for the purpose of effecting that
object, ought to have been made. But the plaintiff had a right
to apply to the Court of Chancery for a discovery, in order to
erble him to proceed at law,either immediately, or on the death
of Martin Baker and his wife; and also, for an injunction, to
restrain the tenants for life from removing the slaves out of
the country. The decree dismissing the bill, entirely defeats
both these objects.
The bill, therefore, ought not to have beer, dismissed, unless the plaintiff had failed to show any title which might be
litigated in a Court of law. The Court will not, in this case,
decide upon the title; but is of the opinion, that it authorizes
the plaintiff to come-into a Court of Chancery to pray for a
discovery; and, as there wav reason to fear that the property
-would be removed, to obtain security for its forthcoming, if
the title should be determined in his favour. This bill was, in
its origin,, merely a bill of discovery, and quia timet- Before
the answer was filed, the original defendants are alleged to ha. e
sold the slaves, and, by that act, to have forfeited thieir life estate. The amended bill, therefore, prays a decree for the slaves
themselves. After this bill was filed, the defendants, Baker and
wife, answer; and make the discovery with respect to the de.
scendants of Charlotte.
In this state of the cause, the plaintiff diem, and his adminis.
trator and devisee, files.a bill in the'nature of a bill of retivor.
After answer and discovery, the rule is, that a suit brought
merely for discovery, cannot be revived. 1 Mad. 217. 1 Dick.
133. 10 Vez. 31. Its object is obtained, and the plaintiff ha.
no motive for reviving it. But such a bill ought not to be dismissed, I Mad. 217. 1 .Jtk.286.
The Court might properly order, that no further proceedings
be had in the case. Had this bill, then, been merely a bill of
discovery; at the death of the original plaintiff, it ought not to
have been sustained in the name of his devisee; because the
discovery was made. But it had then become a bill for relief.
The relief, however, prayed, is for a forfeiture, which might
have been enforced at law. The present plaintiff was in possession of all the evidence which was necessary to support his
action at law, and was not driven into a Cour't of Chancery for
the purpose of obtaining its aid. In such circumstances, it was
proper to dismiss the bill, so far as it sought relief on the ground
of forfeiture; but it ought to have been dismissed, without prejudice to the legal rights of the plaintiff; an absolute dismission may be considered as a decree against the title.
The decree, therefore, is to be reversed, and the cause re-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

237

(Horsburg vs. Baker et al.)
ianded, with directions to dismiss the bill, so far as it asks relief; without prejudice.
The injunction may. be continued in the discretion of the
Court, till the plaintiff has time to institute a suit at law.
This cause came on, &c., on consideration whereof, This
Court is of opinion, that, after the discovery sought by the original bill was obtained, the suit ought not to have been revived, nor ought the bill, in the nature of a bill of revivor, to
have been entertained; because the relief sought by that bill,
was solely to enforce a forfeiture, to which the plaintiff's title,
if he has any, is complete at law. It was therefore proper to
refuse the relief for which that bill prayed; but as a general
decree for a dismission on the merits, may be considered as a
decree against the title, on which the Court ought not to have
decided, the bill ought to have.been dismissed, without prejudice. It is, therefore, the opinion of this Court, that there is
error in so much of the decree of the Circuit Court, as dismissed the bill of the plaintiff generally; and that the said decree ought to be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to dismiss so much of the plaintiff's
bill, as prays relief on the ground of forfeiture; and to continue the injunction at the discretion'of the Court.

