SUPREME COURT.

STEPHEN WARING, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, VS. JAIES JACKSON, EXDEVISE

OF .MEDOEF EDE

ERROR.

AND" ANOTHER, DEFENDANTS

IN

THE' SAME V8. THE SAME.

The testator devised to his son Joseph Eden certain portions of his estate in
New York, among which were the premises sought to be recovered in
this suit,-to him, his heirs, executois and administrators for ever. In like
manner he devised to his son Medcef, his heirs and assigns, certain other
portions of his property; and adds the following claiise: "It is my will
and I do order and appoint, that if either of my siid sons should depart
this life without lawful issue, his share or part shall go to the survivor.
And in ease of both their d6athswithout lawfiul issue, I give all the pro.
perty aforesaid to my brother John Eden, of Lofters, in Cleveland in
Yorkshire, and my sister Hannah Johnson, of Whitby in Yorkshire, and
their heirs.",. Medcef Eden died without issue, having devised his estate
to his widow, and other'devfiees named in .his will. According to the
established law'of New-York, nothing passed under the ulterior devise
over to John Eden and Hannah Johnsorvi Medcef Eden on the death of
his brother Joseph Eden became seised of an estate in fee simple abso.

lute. {571}

Adverse possession taken and held under a sheriff's sale,. by virtde of judgments and executions against Joseph Eden, will not, accoiding to the decisions of the Courts of New-Y6rk, prevent the operation ofa devise by anil.
other, in whom the title to the estate 'was vested by the death of the
defendant in the executions. 1571}
It has been the uniform course of this.Court, with respect to titles to real
property, ta apply thesame rule that is applied by the state tribunals in
like cases. {571}
Mr. Justice THOMPSON defivered the opinion of the Court.These cases come up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New-York, upon writs of error. The question in the Court-helow, turned upon the construction of the will of Medcef Eden the elder, bearing date
the 29th August 1798, by which the testator devised to his son
Joseph, ,certain portions of his estate, among which were the

premises in question in this cause. "To him, his heirs, executorg, and administrators for ever." In.like manner he devised
to his son Medcef, his heirs aid assigns, certain other portions
It is
of his property, and adds the following clause. "Item.
my will and I do order and appoint, that if either of my said
sons should depart: this life without lawful issue, his share or
part shall go to the survivor. And in case of both'their deaths
without lawful issue, then I give all the property aforesaid to
my brother John Eden-of Lofters, in Cleveland in Yorkshire;
and my sisfer Hannah Johnson of Whitby,, in Yorkshire, and
their heirs."

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

571

(Waing'vs. Jack son et al.)
The case of Jackson vs. Chew, (12- Wheat. 158,) decided at
the last term, brought under the consideration of this Court the
coustfuction of this same clause in the will,'and the records in
the present cases have been- submitted to -the Court without argument, to see whether the decision in that case, will govern
the cases now before us. Tte facts disclosed in the casebf Jackson Vs. Chew, did not require of the Court to decide any other
question, than whether Joseph. Eden took under the will an estate tail, which by operation of the statute-of New-York, abQjishing entails, -would be converted into a fee simple absolute.
The Court decided that he did not take an estate tail, but an
estate in fee, defeasible in the event of his dying without issue
in the lifetime of his brother, (which event happened,) and
thereupon hiq interest in the land became extinct, and the limitation over to his brother Medcef. was good as an executory
devise.
In the cases now before the Court, it appears, that Medcef
Eden has died without issue, having by his last will and testament devised his estate to his widow, and certain other devisees therein named; which has given xise to two other questions ; viz. whether John Eden and the heirs of Hannah John.on
(she being dead) took any estate in the premises, under this
clause in the will, on the death of Med'ef Eden, without ipsue ?
And whether the possession taken'and held under the sheriff 's sale, by virtue of the judgnents and executions against
Joseph Eden, was such an adverse holding, as to prevent the
operatidn of the will of Medcef Eden the younger.
In deciding the cdse of Jackson vs. Chew, 'we did not enter
into an examination of the construction of this clause in the
will, considered as an open question; but adopted the construction, which appears to be well settled in the two highest Courts
of Law in the state of New-York, not only upon this very clause,,
but in numerous other, analogous cases; and has thereby become a fixed'rule-of landed property in ihat state.
And this was in conformity with what has been the uniform
course, of this-Court, with respect to the titles to real proper-.
ty, ta apply the same rule that we find applied by the state
tribunals in like cases.
The additional questions presented in the cases now before us,
have likewise undergone a very full examination in that state,
and been decided both by the Supreme Court, and -the Court
for the correction of Errors. In the case of Wilkes vs. Lion, (9,
Cowai, 333,) the decision turned upon these very points, and
the Court of Errors affirming the decision of the Supreme
Court, 4eld with only one dissenting voice, that nothing passed
under the ulterior devise over to John Eden and Hannah Johnson,
but that Medcef Eden had become scised of an estate in fee

5ZI

SUPREME COURT.
(Waring. vs. Jackson et a.)

'simple absolute.- No opinion appears to have been directly expressed by the Court, with respect to the effects of the adverse
possession-upon' the opelation of the devise in the will of Medcef Eden the yot[nger.
But this was a question necessarily involved in the result.
And the decisions of the Courts in that state are very satisfactory to show, that such an adverse possession will not there,
prevent the operation of a devise.
The doctrine in the case of Doe -v. Thompson, (5 Cowan,
S74J warrants this conclusion. And it is understood that this
precise question, 'arising on the construction of the statute of
wills in that state, .has recently been decided in the Supreme
Court, in a case, the report of which is not to be found here.
We are accordingly of opinion; that. the judgments of the
Circuit Court in these cases must be affirmed.

