JANUARY TERM, 1828,

DANIEL .

.tr rLAINTIFF IN E

oiutO,vs. THE UNITED STATES.

The Adjutant and Inspector General of the Army of the United States, was
not entitled to double rations, from the 30th of September 1818, -to the
31st of May 1821.
The President of the United States, has a discretionary power to allow. such
additional number of rations, to officers commanding ut separate posts, as
lie may think just, having respect to the special circumstances of each
post. The law.granting.this authority, is not imperative; and in the exercise of his discretion, the President may allow or refuse to allow, additional rations, as in his opinion he may deem proper. 1296[.
The Secretary of War, as the legitimate organ of the President, under a generAl authority from him, may exercise the powerand riake the allowance,
to officers havinga separate command. 297}
No officer is entitled to the additional allowance, unless he be a commandant
at a separate post ; and then the claim must be sanctioned by the Executive. The allowance cannot be made to more than one officeratthesame
station. {2971
In the discharge of his ordinary duties, the Adjutant and Inspector General,
has no distinct command; his duties consist in details of service, and not
in active military command. 12971
An officer may be said to command at a separate post, when he is out of the
reach of the orders of the commander-in-chief, or of a superior officer in
command, in the neighbourhood. He must then'-issue the necessary orders to the troops under his command, it being impossible to receive them
from-a superior officer. 12971
Tie general order of the War Department, of 16th March 1816, directing
double rations to be'allowed to officers commanding mall an departments,
is construed to relate to the geographical sections of country, into whiclf
the two divisions of the army are divided, and which were denominated
"depiartments," and intended to designate the extent of actual comrand'
given to the officer commanding each department; it does not relate to
the law of the3d of March 1813, "for the better organization of the General Staffofthe Army." 1297}

WRIT of error to the Circuit Court, for the county of Washingtonz, in the District of Columbia.
This case was submitted to the Court, without argument, by
Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Wirt, Attarney General, for the United States.
All the material facts of the case are stated in the opinion of
the Court; which was delivered by Mr. Justice Dvvu.An action was commenced in the Circuit Court, by the United States, a'gainst the plaintiff in error, to recover Lhe sum of
$2337 60, which he had received from Mr. Leslie, the paymaster, then stationed at the seat of government, on a claim for
double rations, due him in his capacity of Adjutant'anfd'Inspector General of-the army of thfe United States, from the

SUPREME COURT.
(Parker w. The United States.)
80th of September 1818, to the 31st of May 1821. On the settlement of the account of the paymaster, 'this item was disallowed by the second Auditor, who considered it as wrongfully
paid; and the amount was afterwards directed to be charged
to the personal account of General Parker.
The office of Adjutant and Inspector General of the army,
with the rank, pay, and emoluments of a Brigadier General,
was created by the Act of March 3, 1813. The plaintiff in error was appointed to that office; and his commission bears date
on the 1st May 1816, with the rank of Brigadier General, from
92d November 1814.
The pay and emoluments of.the officers of the army, are fixed by the Act 0'f 16th March 1802; and the Act of 12th-April
1808. By the fifth section of the first mentioned Act, it is.provided, that the commanding officers of each separate post, shall
be entitled to such additional number of rations, as the President of the United States shall, from time to time, direct, having respect to the special circumstances of each post. Under
this authority, the President has, at various times, designated
military posts and stations, and allowed double rations to the
commanding officers; and in the case of General Wilkinson,
when stationed at New-Orleans, and commanding there, in
quality of a commanding officer at a separate post, he allowed
that officer treble rations. It appears by the record and documents referred to in this case, that on the 25th August 1812,
the President ordered, that Generals commanding separate
armies, should receive double rations.
In February 1814, an order was issued by the War Department, on the subject of double rations, of which the following
is an extract :--It
is ordered, that General or other officers
commanding districts, shall, while so doing, receive double
rations; which will supersede all other grants of double rations
at posts within the district."
On the 6th March 1816, a general order was issued, in the
words following:-" Generals commanding Divisions; Officers
commanding Military Departments; and. all' officers while in
the command b p ermanent posts and garrisons, separate from
the stations of commandants of departments, which subject
them tb the 'dditional expense af independent commands, are
allowed double rations. Nomore than 'one officer can be entitled to double rations, at tlF same station."
The Adjutant and Inspector General performed the duties of
his office from November 1814, and charged the compensation
as allowed by law, until the year 1816, when a difficulty arose
on the-subject of his fuel and quarters, from the circumstance
of there being no disbursing office in the Quartermaster's departrherit, at the seat of government; and from the regulations

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

a95

(Parker vs. The United States.)
of the War Department, then in force, prohibiting an allowance in money, to be made to officers in lieu of these emoluments. The Secretary of War then issued the following order:
,"A"commutation of double rations, is allowed to the Adjutant
and Inspector General, in lieu of fuel and quarters."
Under this authority, he claimed and was allowed double rations from November 1814; refunding to the government the
allowance he had received for fuel and quarters, from the time
of his acceptance, until the date of the above order. He continued to receive double rations, making no charge for fuel and
quarters, until an order was issued by the Secretary of War,
on the 10th of August 1818, to the following effect. "The
reason for the 4llowance to the Chief of the Engineers, and to
the Adjutant ind Inspector General, in lieu of fuel and quarters, no longer existing, since the establishment of the Quartermaster's department; at the termination of the present quarter, such -allowance will cease; and the Quartermaster General will, on requisition, furnish them with fuel and quarters,
agreeeably to their respective ranks." The commutation of
double rations, ceased accordingly; and the Adjutant and Inspector General continued to charge and receive single rations,
only, from the first of October 1818, to the 31stMay 1821, when
the office was abolished.
The defendant in the Court below, now plaintiff in. error, in
support of his claim, produced a certificate from Richard Cutts,
second comptroller of the Treasury; "that the senior officer,
of the Engineer Department, stationed at Washington, has
charged and been allowed double rations since the first of Janu-ary 1818. The senior officers of the Quartermaster's, Subsistence and Ordnance Departments, have charged and been allowed double rations since the 27th July 1821; and Major General Brown has charged and been allowed double rations, since
the 1st of June 1821, when he was stbtioned in this city." And
also the following regulations: The regulation and general
order of the 27th July, 1821, issued by the War Department,.
allowing to the Quartermaster General, Commissary General
of Subsistence, the Colonel of Engineers, and the Chief 'of the
Ordnance Department; (while stationed at the seat of government,) double rations from the date of the said order.
The regulations or general order, duly issued from the War
Department, dated the 31st of May, 1821, addressed to the
defendant, as Adjutant and Inspector General; directing him.
among other things, to hand over the records and files of his office to Major General Brown, on the next day, being the first
of June 1821 ; the said Major General having from the time he
had assumed command, and had relieved the said Adjutant and
ITispector General, at the seat of government, pursuant to the

SUPREME COURT.
(Parker vs. the United States.)

last mentioned order, been allowed and paid double rations, as
certified by the second comptroller; which regulation or general order is in the following words: "The Adjutafit General,
under the law of the 2d of March last, being attached to the
Major General commanding the army, and now absent, you
will, to-morrow, pass over the records and files of your office to
Major General Brown, and will assume the duties of Paymaster General.' Major General Brown has been advised of this
order; and Colonel Towson will be instructed to hand over
the papers and records of the pay departnent to youl' That
the-Brigadiers General of theArmy of theUnited States, have
all been regularly allowed double rations, since the said general order and regulation of the 6th of March 1816. That the
defendant continued at the head of the department of Adjutant
and Inspector General, and stationed at the seat of ,g6vernment, from the time of his appointment and commission, as
such, until the 31st of May 1821, and until he was relieved by
Major General Brown as before mentioned.
The defendant then proved, by Thomas S. Jessup, Qurtermaster General, that in his opinion, and according to the general usage of the army, the department of Adjutant and Inspector General- was a military department; and that the defendant, whilst exercising that office, was commandant of a
military department; and as such, was subject to the additional expense of an independent command.
The declaration in this cause is founded on a transcript
from the Treasury, certified in the usual form, and contained a
count for money had and received, and other counts not necessary to be mentioned; issue was joined on the plea. of non asmumpsit; and by agreement of counsel, a verdict for the United States was taken for the sum claimed, subject to the opinion of the Court upon the laws of the United States relative
to the pay and emoluments of the officers of the army, and the
regulations and orders of the executive department, issued in
pursuance of those laws. The Court, on consideration, gave
judgmenf in fav'our of the United States; and the cause is now
before this Court, by writ of error, for their decision.
The claim of the plaintiff in error to double rations, as
charged, rests altogether upon a correct constpuction of the
5th section of the Act of the 16th of March, 1802, and of the regulations and orders of the executive department, issued in pursuance of that section. The President of the United States has
a discretionary power to allow such additional number of rations to officers commanding at separate posts, as he may
think just; having respect to the special circumstances of each
post. The law granting this authority, is not imperative, and
in the exercise of his. discretion, the Presikent may allow, or

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

C97

(Parker vs. The United States.)
refuse to allow, additional rations, as in his opinion he may
deem just.
The reason of the authority to grant the allowance is obvious. By an independent command, at a separate post, the officer is subject to additional expense, and an increase of duty.
An officer may be said to command at a separate post, when
he is out of the reach of the orders of the Commander in chief,
or of a superior officer, in command in the neighbourhood.
He must then issue the necessary orders to the troops under
his command; it being impracticable to receive them from a
superior officer. His authority is the source from which they
must flow.
There can be no controversy about additional rations, if the
President makes the allowance. He may issue the order himself, or it may be done by the Secretary of War, with his ipprobation. The Secretary of War, as the legitimate organ of
the President, under a general authority from him, may exercise the power, and make the allowance to officers having a
separate command. The language of the law is plain and unambiguous. No officer is entitled to the additional allowance,
unless he be a commandant at a separate post; and then the
claim must be sanctioned by the Executive. The allowance
cannot be made to more than one officer at the same station.
Ii is not contended, in the case under consideration, that the
grant was made by the President; but the plaintiff in error
claims it under the orders which have been recited, and which
are spread upon the record; and because officers of equal
rank, and in his opinion similarly circumstanced, have received the additional allowance. Double rations form no part of
the regular and legal emoluments of a Brigadier General, and
can only be claimed under circumstances before enumerated.
The plaintiff in error seems to rely, with more confidence, on
the order of the 6th of March 1816, taken in connexion with
the opinion of General Jessup. That order directs the additional allowance to be made to Generals commanding divisions, and to officers commanding military departments, &c.; and
General Jessup was of opinion, that, according to the general
usage of the army, the department of Adjutant and Inspector General, was a military department; aid that whilst exercising that office,' he was commandant of a military department; and, as such, subject to the expense of an independent
command.
The record contains no evidence, that the Adjutant and Inspector General was ever ordered to an independent or separate command. In the discharge of his ordinary duties, he
has no distinct command; his duties consist in details of gervice, and not in active military command. The order of the
VOL. 1.
Pp

998

SUPREME COURT.

(Parker w. The United States.)
16th of-March 1816, directing doublefrations to be allkwed to
officers commanding military dcpartvmd8, is construed to relate'to the geographical sections of country, into which the two
divisions of the army are divided, and which were denominated departments; and intended to designate.the extent of actual
command, given to the officer commanding each department;
and that it'does not relate to the law of the 3d of March 1813,
for the better organization of the general staff of the army.
This appears to have been the construction given to the order
by the war department, as none of the staff officers created by
that Act, with the exception of the plaintiff in error, ever made
a claim for double rations; and the claim under consideration,
-was disallowed by the accounting officers of the war aepartment.
During the time the Adjutant and Inspector General was
stationed at the seat of government, comprehending the space
for which double rations are claimed, it doer not appear, that
there was any recognised commanding officer. The staff officers, then stationed at the seat cf government, were subject
to the authority of the Secretary of War, and under his direct
and exclusive control.
It is the opinion of the Court, that the claim of the plaintiff
in error, is not sanctioned by the Act of the 16th of Marcl4
1802, nor by the regulations and orders of the executive department, issued in pursuance of that law.
The judgment of the Circuit Court i8 afirmed, with cots.

