SUPREME COURT-

PETER Dox, GERRIT LA GRANGE, AND ISAIAH TowNsENn, imPLEADED WITH GERRIT L. Dox, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, VS.

THE P0STMASTER-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES, DEPENDAINT IN ERROR.

The Act of Congress, for regulating the Post-Office Department, does not,
in terjs, discharge the obligors, in the official bond of a Dep3ity Postmaster, from the direct claim of the United States upon them, on the
failure of the Postmaster-General to commence a suit against the delisulting Postmaster, within the time prescribed by law. Their liability, therefore, continues. They remain the debtors of the United States. The responsibility of the Postmaster-General is superadded to, not substituted
for, that of the obligors. {323
The claim of the United States upon an official bond, and upon all parties
thereto, is not released by the laches, of the officer, to whom the assertion of this claim is intrusted by law. Such laches have no effect whatsoever, on the rights of the United States, as well against the sureties, as
the principal in the bond. {3251
THIS case was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the Southern District of New-York, in the
Second Circuit; upon a certificate of the Judges of that Court,
that they disagreed on certain points,set forth in the certificate.
The cause was commenced in the District Court of the United
States, for the Northern District of New-York, and removed
by writ of error, to the Circuit Court.
The following were the points of disagreement:
1st. Whether the District Court had jurisdiction of the
c aus%?
2d. Whether, by the facts appearing on the record, and admitted by the pleadings, or, found by the jury, the sureties are
exonerated, or discharged. from their liability upon the bond
set forth in the record ?
3d. Whether the said bond, from the facts so found or admitted by the pleadings, or appearing on the record, can, in
judgment of law, be considered as paid and satisfied, or other-wise discharged?
The original suit was commenced in the District Court, in
August 1823,.and tile plaintiff declared in debt, on a bond, ih
the penal sum of six thousand dollars, executed on the 1st of
January 1816, by Gerrit L. Dox, Peter Dox, Gerrit La Grange,
and Isaiah Townsend; conditioned for the faithful performance
of the duties of Postmaster, at Albany, by Gerrit L. Dox.
The declaration alleged two breaches of the condition of the
bond.-1. -That said Gerrit L. Dox did not, at any tifet -between the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

319

(Do% et al. vs. The Postmaster-General.)
first day of January 1816, and the first (ay of January 1817,
(he being, during the whole of that time, Postmaster as afo'esaid,) render any accounts of his receipts and expenditures, according to the condition of said bond; but utterly neglected so
to do.
9. That after the date of said bond, and more than three
months previous to the commencement of the suit, there came
to the hands of said Gerrit-L. Dox, as such Postmaster as aforesaid, the sum of six thousand dollars for postages, over and
above commissions, &c., which he had not paid over to the Postmaster-General; but had refused so to do, although often requested, &c.
Gerrit L. Dox, the principal obligor, pleaded separately three.
pleas-1. Non estfaclurn, and tendered an issue.
2. To the first breach, that he did render true accounts
of his receipts and expenditures as such Postmaster, &c., and
tendered an issue.
S. To the second breach, that he had paid to the PostmasterGeneral all the moneys he had received, over and above his
commissions, &c., and tendered an issue.
Issues were joined on these pleas as tendered.
The defendants, Peter Dox, Gerrit La Grange, and Isaiah
Townsend, the sureties of said Gerrit L. Dox, pleaded six
pleas:-1. NAorn estfacturn, and tendered an issue.
9. To the first breach, that Gerrit L. Dox did render true
.rccounts of his receipts and expenditures, &c., and tendered
an issue.
S. To the second breach, that the said Gerrit L. Dox had
paid to the Postmaster-General all the moneys he had received
over and above his commissions, &c., and tendered an issue.
4. To the second breach, that they executed the bond as sureties; that Gerrit L. Dox was removed from office on the first
day of July, A. D. 1816; that the Postmaster-General, knowing there were sureties, did not open an account against Gerrii
L. Dox, and make any claim and demand on him for the moneys received by him as Postmaster, until the first day of July,
A. .D. 1821; at which time, the Postmaster-General did opeu
an account against, and claim and demand of said Gerrit L.
Dox, the sum of 3041 dollars S5 cents; that Gerrit L. Dox, ar
the time of his removal from office, was solvent, and able to
pay his debts, and continued so for three years, and until the
first (lay of July 1819; and that after'the first day of July 1819.
and before the first day of July 1821, to wit, on the first day of
January, A. D. 1820, he became insohlvnt, and still continues
to be insolvent. -This plea concluded i ith a verification.

820

SUPREME COURT.

(Dox et al. v8. The Postmaster-General.)
5. To the second breach, that they executed said bond as
sureties for said Gerrit L. Dox; that said Gerrit L. Dox was
removed from office on: the first day of July, A. D. 1816; that
the Postmaster-General, well knowing that they were sureties
for Gerrit L. Dox, anid that Gerrit L. Dox had neglected and
refused to pay over to the Postmaster-General, the balance due
from him at the end of every qudrter while he was such Postmaster, did not commence a suit against said Gerrit L. Dox
for his neglect and refusal to pay, until August, in the year 1821,
at which time a suit was commenced against him and his sureties, on the bon'd in question; that Gerrit L. Dox was solvent
at the time of his removal from office, viz: on the first day of
July 1816, and continued so for three years, and until the first
day of July, A. D. 1819; and that after the first day of July1819, and before the first day of July 1821, viz: on the first day
of January, A. D. 1820, he became insolvent, and, still continues to be insolvent. This plea also concluded with a verification.

The plaintiff took issues on The first, second, and third pleas
of the sureties, as they were tendered; and to the fourth, fifth,
and sixth pleas, respectively, he replied, that said Gerrit L.
Dox was not solvent at the time of his removal from office, nor
did he continue to be solvent for the space of three years
thereafter, or any part of said time; nor did he, on the first day
of January 1820, oi- at any other time after the first day of July 1819, become insolvent; and thereupon issues were joined.'
The issues were tried at the May session of the Court, in the
year 1824. All the issues were found for the plaintiff, except those
joined on the fourth, fifth,.and sixth pleas of the sureties, which
were found in favour of-said sureties; the breaches assigned,
hating beenfound to be true, as above stated, the damages on them
were assessed at-6000 dollars.
After the verdict, and at the sam6 session of the Court, a
motion was made on behalf of the said PostmasterGeneral,
for judgment in his favour, notwithstanding- the verdict against
him, on saidfourth, fifth, and sixth issues with the sureties, and
judgment given for-the said plaintiff.
The case was argued, on the-part of the plaintiffs inerror,
by Mr. Samuel A. Foot, of New-York, and by Mr. Wirt, Attorney-General of.the United States, 'for the Postmaster-General.
Mr. Foot.This suit was instituted to recover a balance due to the United States, by Gerrit L. Dox, as Postmaster, at Albany, in NewYork. Gerrit L. Dox was appointed Postmaster, in January 1816, and was removed from office in July 1816. The breaches
assigned were-i. Not rendering accounts as Postmaster.

JANUARY TERM, 18:2.

321

(Dox et al. v . The Postmaster-Gencral.)

a. Not paying over moneys he ought to have paid.
The issues upon. all the pleas put in by Dox alone, and by
him and his sureties together, were found for the plaintiff below; the only questions in the case, arise on the fourth, fifth,
and sixth pleas, put'in by the sureties only. The District
Court held these pleas to be immaterial, and gave judgment
for the Postmaster-General.
It is admitted, that since this suit was commienced, cases
have been decided in this Court, which bear upon the question, whether the neglect of the officers of the government to
proceed against a debtor to the public, will discharge the sureties. 9 Wheat. 720. The United States vs. Kirkpatrick. 11
bid. 184. The United States vs. Vanzant. 12 9F7eat.136. Bub
the principles settled in these cases, are not entirely applicable
to this. The law of the United States relative to the post-office
establishment; makes it the duty of the Postmaster-General to
file, every six.months, in the Treasury Department, a transcript
of the balances due from the Postmasters, and to sue for the
same; and if he omits so to do, the balances are to be charged
to the Postmaster-General, and to be collected from him. Thus
the Postmaster-General becomes himself a debtor to the government, for the amount of the delinquency of every Postmaster; unless he has taken measures to collect the same; and
he may use the name of the government for the purpose. This
suit is therefore for the use of the Postmaster-General, as he
had neglected to proceed against Gerrit L. Dox, for six yeard;
aid the sureties are entitled, against him, to the benefit of his
laches. This case is different from those referred to; and the
plaintiff, who had a verdict in his favour on the fourth, fifth,
and sixth counts, is entitled to the presumptions, that the Postmaster-General was charged with the'balances due by Gerrit
L. Dox, and that he has paid the same to the United States.
In the case of the Postmaster- General vs. Early, 12 WTh-eat. 136,
the Court is understood to have said, that if this suit had been
brought for the Postmaster-General only, the jurisdiction could
not have been sustained. Here, the Postmaster-General is the
only person beneficially interested. If the United States 31ere
the partiei really interested, a special averment should have
been made; and the general formal averment in the declaration, is not sufficient. The Postmaster-General is the guarantee
of the debt to the United States; he could not be a witness in
the case, and the suit should have been stated to be for his use;
and then the jurisdiction would have been at an end.
.2. Are the issues found for the plaintiff in error, material ?
If they are, the district Judge erred in giving judgment ;- -they are not, there should be a repleader. When the finding
upon the issue does not determine the ri.ht. the Court ouh,
S s
Vn. 1

SUPREME COURT.
(Dox et al. w. The Postmaster-General.)

to award a repleader; unless it appears from the whole record,
that by no manner of pleading, the matter in issue could have
availed; 1.Burr, S81. The fourth, fifth, and sixth pleas, aver
the solvency of the principal of the bond, for a considerable
time, during which suit was not brought; and by these laches
the sureties have become involved. It is not necessary to show,that the sureties applied to know what was the balance due to
the United States. At'Common Law, the question is,whether
the case is such that the creditor might have been injured or
have lostby it. The case of Law vs.The East India Company,has
soine application to the principles claimed in this case, 4 Vez.
jun. 824.
The issues in the fourth, fifth, and sixth pleas, were material, as the solvency of Gerrit L. Dox was of the highest importance to the sureties.
Mr. Wirt, Attorney General, having, upon the authority of:
a private statement of the facts, made to him by the counsel of
the plaintiffs in error, explained why the suit for a delinquency
in 1816, was not instituted until 182S; thus vindicating the
Postmaster-General from the imputation of laches; proceeded:
The case is a plain one, in favour of the Postfnaster-General.
All the material issues are found for him.1. That it was the bond of the obligees.
2. That the principal in the -bond did not render an account.
3. That he did not pay oi'er moneys received by him.
The District Court considered the fourth,fifth ;and sixth pleas,
*immaterial, and gave judgment for the plaintiffs, non obstaate ,eredicto. If these pleas were really immaterial, the judgment so
given was correct. 2 .6rchibold's Practice, 229. 1 Mhiay's

Pleadings, 6S4.
If the Postmaster-Genaral did not open an account with Gerrit
L. Dox, the Postmaster, at Albany, or bring a suit according
to law; would the sureties be absolved? This question has
been aheady settled in this Court. . The provisions of the law
are directory to the Postmaster-General; but they create no
contract with the deputy Postmaster, or his securities, that he
shall open an account, and institute a suft, in case of delinquenScy. The case of the United States vs. Vanzant, 11 Tf7teat. 184,
was one of great hardship; but the securities were held answerable upon the principles stated.
The finding of the jury on the second plea, establishes tha
no account was rendered by the Postmaster; and, therefore,
the plaintiff below, had no materials to make out an account.
The provisions relative to opening of accounts, have been held
to be for the use of the United States, and for the direction of
lheireofficers and with which others have nothing to do. Whe-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

s

(Dox et al. vs. The Postmaster-General.)
ther tniese provisions will be enforced, depends, and properly,
on the discretion of the executive.
The question of jurisdiction should have been brought forward in the form of a plea. There is no averment, that the
Postmaster-General was .sserting this claim for himself.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opinion of the

Court.LThis suit was instituted against Gerrit L. Dox, a deputy master, and against his sureties, on a bond given for the faithful
perfor nance of his duty. It was brought in the Court for the
Northern District of New-York, and was removed, by writ of
error, into the Gircuit Court, sitting in the Southern District
of New-York, composed of the Associate Justice of this Court,
and the Judge of the Southern District. On the hearing, the
Judges were divided in opinion upon three questions; which
have been certified to this Court.1 st. Whether the District Court had jurisdiction of the cause.
2d. Whether, by the facts appearing on the record, and admitted by the pleadings, or found by the jury, the sureties are
exonerated, or discharged from their liability upon the bond so
given by them, as set torth in the record.
3d. Whether the said bond, from the facts found, or admitted by the pleadings, as appearing by the record, can, in judgment of law, be considered as paid anid satisfied, or otherwise
discharged.1st. The question first to be considered, respects the jurisdiction of the Court. The difficulties which were believed to
attend it, when this cause was adjourned, have been removed
by the opinion of this Court, in the case of the Postmaster-General vs. Early. 12 TI7heat. 136.
In that case, the question was fully considered, and deliberately decided. The time which intervened between the default
of the-officer, and the institution of the suit, exceeded the time
prescribed by the Act of Congress in that caseras well as this.
Consequently, the circumstances of the two cases, are, in this
respect, precisely the same. But the counsel for the DeputyPostmaster says, that this point was not brought into the view
of the Court, and has not been considered. The opinion of the
Court, undoubtedly, did not take a view of the question, whether the Postmaster-General possessed such an intelest in the
cause, that it ceased to be a suit brought for the United States.
This inquiry was not made in terms, but could not have escaped observation. The Act of Congress for regulating the postoffice establishment, does not, in terms, discharge :the obligors
from the direct claim of the United States on them, on the failure of the Postmaster-General to commence a suit-against tire

SUPREME COURT.
(Dox et al. s. The Postmaster-General.)

defaulter, vithin the time it prescribes. Their liability therefore continues. They remair4 the debtors of the United States.
The responsibility of the Postmaster-General himself, is superadded to, not substituted-for, that of the obligors. The object
of the Act, is to stimulate the Postmaster-General to a prompt
and vigilant performance of his duty, by suspending over him
a penalty, to which negligence will expose him; not to annul
the obligation of his deputy. I-lad the object of the Act been to
favour the sureties, its language would have indicated that intention. If this construction be correct, the obligors in this
bond remain the debtors of the United States, and the superadded responsibility of the Postmaster-General, cannot affect
the reasoning on which the jurisdiction of the Court was sustained, in the case of the Postmaster-General vs. Early.
The second question proposed for the consideration of the
Court, is, whether, on the facts appearing in the record, the
sureties are discharged from their obligations.
The breaches assigned, are1st. That Gerrit L. Dox failed to renlder accounts of his receipts and expenditures, as Deputy-Postmaster.
2d. That he had failed to pay over, the moneys he had received,.over and above his commissions, &c.
The defendant pleaded-lst. Non estfaclum. 2d. Tfat Get
rit L. Dox did render true accounts, &c.; and 8d. That he did
pay over the moneys he received. The issues joined on these
pleas, were.found for the plaintiff.
The question arises on other pleas, the issues on which were
found for the defendants; and wlich state, in substance, that
Gerrit L. Dox was removed from his office on the 1st day of
July 1816: That the Postmaster-Gencral did not open an account against him, and make any claim and demand on him
for the moneys received by him, as Postmaster, until .the 1st
day of July 1821: That at the time of his removal from office,
he was solvent and able to pay his debts, and continued so until the 1st day of July 1819, after which he became insolvent,
and continues to be -so. These pleas also state, that the Postmaste'r-General, well knowing that Gerrit L. Dox had neglected and refused to pay over the moneys due from him, as Postmaster, at theend of every 'quarter, &c., did not commence a
suit until August 1821.
These facts, placed on the record without explanation, must
be admitted to show a gross neglect of duty on the phrt of the
Postmaster-General. Does this ncglect discharge the sureties
from their obligations?
The condition of the. bond is broken, and the obligation has
become absolute.
Is the claim of the United States upon them, released by the

JANUARY ITERM, 1828.

s25

(Dox et al. v. The Postmaster-General.)
laches of the officer, to whom the assertion of that claim was
intrusted?
This question, also, has been settled in this Court.
The case of the- United States vs. Kirkpatrick 8 others, 9
Wheat. 720, was a suit instituted on a bond, given by -a'collector of Direct taxes and Internal duties, under the Act of 22d
July, 1813, ch. 16. The Act required each collector to transmit his accounts to the Treasury monthly; to pay over the
moneys collected quarterly; and to completehis collection, pay
over the moneys collected to the Treasury, and render his final
account within six months from the day onwhich he shall have
received the collection list from the principal assessor. In
case of failure, the Act authorizes and requires the comptroller
of the Treasury, immediately, to issue his warrant of distress
against such delinquent collector,- and his sureties. The comptroller did not issue his warrant of distress eccording to the
mandate of the law; and this suit was instituted four years after such warrant ought to have been issued.
The Court left it to 'the jury to decide whether the government had not,. by this omission, waived its resort to the-sureties. A verdict was found for the defendants; the judgment
on ivhich was brought before this Court by writ of error.
The counsel for the defendant urged that laches might be
imput&l to the government; through the negligence of its -oicers; but this Coutt reversed the judgment, declaiing the opinion that the charge of the Court belaw, which supposes that.
laches will 'discharge the bond, cannot be maintained in law.
"The utmost vigilance," it was said, "would not save the public fi-om th&most serious losses, if the doctrine of laches can:
be applied to its transactions. It would, in effect, -work a repeal of all its securities." Itwas furthe" said, that the provisions of the laiv which require that settlements should be made
at short and stated periods, are created by the government
for its own security and protection; and to regulate the conduct of its own officers. They are merely directory to such
officers, and constitute no part of the contract with the security.
After a full discussion of the question, the Courtlaid down the
principle, "that the mere laches of the publi6 officers, consti-.
tutes no grounds of discharge in the present case." The same
question came on to be again considered in the case of the United States vs. Vanzandt, It 1 7eat. 184.
This was an action of debt brought up on a paymaster'e official bona, against one of the sureties. The act for organizing
the general staff, and making further plrvision for the army of
the United States, "makes it the duty of the paymaster to render his vouchers to the Paymaster General, for the settlementof his accounts;" 'and if he fail to do so, for more than six

SUPREME COURT.
(Dox et aL. vs. The Postmaster-General.)
months after he shall have received funds, the act imperatively
enjoins "tlIat he shall be recalled, and another appointed in
his place." The paymaster had failed to comply with the requisites of the law; after which the Paymaster General instead, of obeying its mandate, by removing him, placed further
funds in his hands. The Circuit Coux t instructed the jury,
that the defendant, the surety, was not chargeable for any failure of the paymaster to account for such additional funds, so
placed in his hands after his said default and neglect in respect of the funds previously received were known; and a verdict was found for the defendant. The judgment on this verdict, was also brought before the Court by a writ of error, and
was reversed.
The counsel for the defendant contended, that this case differed from the United States vs. Kirkpatrick and others; but
the Court said "The provisions in both laws are merely directory to the officers, and intended for the security and protection of government, by ensuring punctuality and responsibility;
but they form no part of the contract with the surety." The
placing further funds in the hands of the defaulting paymaster,
was considered as the necessary consequence of his continuance in office. This is certainly a very strong case. These
two cases seem to fix the principle, that the laches of the officers of the government, however gross, do not of themselves
discharge the sureties in an official bond, from the obligation it
creates; as firmly as the decisions of this Court can fix it. We
think they decide the question now under cohsideration.
The third question is, whether the bond can, upon the facts
of the case, be considered in judgment of law,, as paid and satished, or otherwise discharged. If this question was founded
on the time which was permitted to elapse before the institution of the suit, the answer must be in the negative. The bond
was executed on the 1st day of January 1816, the Postmaster
was removed from office on the 1st day of July, in the~same
.ear; and this suit was instituted in August 1821. But little
more than five years intervened, between the time when the
sum due from the principal in the bond was ascertained, and
the institution of the suit. The presumption of payment has
never been supposed to arise from length of time in such a
,case, even between individuals; much less, in the case of' the
United States, where all payments are placed on that record
which must be kept by the officers of government. An additional reason exists against the presumption in this case.
Length of time, is evidence to be laid before the jury on the
plea of payment. The pleas on-which this presumption is supposed to arise, not.only do not allege payment, but presuppose
that payment has not been made, which failure they ascribe to

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

S7

(Dox et al. vs. The Postmasfer-Gencial.)
tie laches of the Postmaster-General. In such a case, there
can be no ground for presuming payment and satisfaction.
That part of -the question which is gencraliand which refers
it to the Court to decide, whether the bond has been ,,other-.
wise discharged;" is understood to be a repetition of the second
question, and to be answered in the-answer given to that queston.
This Court is of opinion, that it be certified to the Circuji
Court of the United Statcsi for the Southern district of NewYork.1. That the District Court had jurisdiction of this cause.
9.-That the sureties are not exonerated from their liability,
upon the bond given by them, as set forth in the record.
S. That the said bond cannot be considered, in judgment of
law, as paid and satisfied, or otherwise disc-harged.
This cause came on, &c., on consideration whcreol, This
Court is of opinion-l.- That the District Court of the northern district of New-York, had jurisdiction of the said cause.
2. That the sureties to the bond on which the said suit was
instituted, are not exoneratcd or discharged from their liability
on the said bond, by the facts appeariug on the record, and admitted by the pleadings, or found by the jury. S. That the
said bond cannot, from the facts found or admitted by the pleadlngs, or appearing by the record, be considered, injudgmcut of
Jaw, as paid and satisfied, or otherwise discharged. All which
is directed to be certified to the Circuit'Court of the United
States for the southern district of New-York. in the srrond cir,:uit

