JAN7UARY TERM, 1828.

Tim BANK oF CbLUMH I

vs. GEORGE SwEENY.-

The Court refused to issue a mandaims to the Circuit Court for the county
of Washington, commanding that- Court to strike off a plea whichthe
Court had permitted the defendant to put in, and'to compel the defenddant to enter another plea, which the plaintiffs' counsel deemed the proper plea, under the provisiont of an Act of the legislature of Maryland,.'
upon which the-proceedings were: founded, incorporating the Bank of
Messrs. Jones and Key, moved the Court for a mandamus to
the
be directed to the Circuit Court of the United States, forbeen
had
issuecomand&
joined,
of -which
C~lumbia;
in the
District
countj
of Washington,
issue
certain
a
hve
to
them
in
hat Court against Gotge -Sweeny,
tendered in a proceedingofinColumbia
were paintiffs George
Bank
the
and in which
poh aproCohubi,
of
Bank
the
to
Sweeny being indebted
with the
conformity
in
bank,
th'e
of
missory note, the President
-thebank,•
incorporating
bak
Mrylnd,hy
provisiofis of the sttute of
the20
instituted'proceedings)
voh~
1793,'
ed
of
read
passed in 1793, (Acts
capioz
a
which, by virtue of
to,'
in the Circuit Court, under
applied
e
and
marshl;
the
by
spondendum, he was arrested the authority o the 14th section
clah-:
the Court to be allowed, under
bak, to "disjiut ' the debt
of he Act incorporating th
an issue tobe joined and the
The Court thereupon ordered
to draw a'declaration, ofdirected
being
attorney of the bank
allegation that he debt
the
upo
feted oe tendering ar.ssux
the attorwas due. To this issueright
to put
mentioned in the exection
claimed the
e
and
objected,
ant
ourt
ney for the defend
Circuit
The
imitations.
of
in issue the plea of the statuteentitled to avail himself of the staheld,' that the defenant wasof the bank should filea declaaioni
that' h attorney
tute, anld
in-the
promis ry note'entioned
in the -common form on the
'thestatute off
:pleh
migt
in
execution, to which the-defendant
the time of payment mentioned
limitations, as runiing from should "reply so a t nake up the
tothe-ote; and that- th bank
limitations. The Court refused
issue under the ttute ofstated.the issue
up
make
to
or
bank
the
as by
offe'ed
issuethan
up 'the way
make
in any other
by this" motion sougt to mainThe plaitiffs claimed, and
the bank, an issue joined as offered by
taintheir clam, to have as
statute.
the
in
provided
uon th debts being due,
of the 14th sectin" f. th
The following are the' provisions were had, and by which -

clr~er upon which the proceedings

568

SUPREME COURT.

(The Bank of Columnbi'vs. Sweeny.)
the plaintiffs insisted'they had a right to the proceedings they
had adopted.,"And, whereas it is-absolutely neceisary that debts due to the
.said' bank should be punctually paid, to enable the directors -to
calculate with certainty and'precision on meeting the demands
that may be made upon them, Be it enacted, that whenever any
person or .persono .are indebted to.the said bank for moneys borrowed by thein, or forboni~s, bills or notes, given or endorsed
by them, with an express c6nsent in writing that they may be
made neg6tiable .at the said bink; and shall refuse or neglect to
make payment at the time the same becomes due, the President
shall cause a demand in writing on the. person of the said delinquent or delinquents, having consented as aforesaid, ox'if not
to be found, have the same.left-at his place of abode; and if the
looney so due shall- not be paid within ten days after such demand made, or notice left at his last place of abode as aforesaid,
it shall and may be lawful for the President, at his election, to
write, to the clerk of the general Court, or of the cohnty in
which the said delinquent or delinquents may reside, or -did at
the time he or they contracted the debt reside,. and send to the
said clerk the bond, bill or note due, with proof of the demand
made as aforesaid, and order the said clerk to issue a eapias ad
satisfadendum,fierifacia, or attachment, by way of execution,
.on which the debt and costs may 'be levied, by selling the property of the defendant for the sum or sums of'money mentouned in the said bond, bill or note; and- the clerk of -the General
Court, ind the clerks of the several County Courts, are hereby
respectively required to issue such execution or executions,
which shall be made returnable, to the Court whose clerk shall
issue the same, which shall first set after the issuing thereof,
aud. sh4l be as valid, and a* effectual in law, to all intents and
purposes, as if the same had issued on judgment regularly obtaiied in the ordinary course of proceeding in the said Court;
and such execution or executions shall not be liable to be stayed
or 'delayed by any supersedeas, writ of.error, appeal, or injunction from the chancellor; provided always, that before any execution shall issue. as -aforesaid, the President of.the bank shall
make an oath, (or affirmation, if he shall 'be of such religious
society as allowed by this stake to make affirmation,) ascertaining whether the whole or what part of the debt due to the bank
on the said bond, bill or note ks due; which oath or affirmation
shall be filed in the office of tle clerk of the Court fronrwbich
the execution. shalr issue; and if the defendant shall diepllte the
whole or any part'of the said debt, on the return of the execution, the Court before whom it is returned shill and may order
an issue to b6- joined, and trial to be had. the same Court at
which the return is made, and shall make such other proceedings that justice may be done in the speediest manner."

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

569

(The Bank of Columbia vs. Sweeny.)
The case was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr. Key for the plaintiffs at great length, upon the meaning and objects. of the'section, and that it authorized the demand made by the bank to
exclude the plea of the statute of limitations; and contra by Mr.
Swam, and the Attorney General for the defendant.. The Court,
in their decision, did not take notice of the arguments of counsel, as they considered the case not such as entitled it to the
summary proceeding demanded.
Mr. Chief Sustice MARSHALL, delivered the opinion of the
Court:This case arose under the provision of-the Act of the legislature of Maryland incorporating the Bank of Columbia, which
authorizes summary process for the collection of debts due to
the bank. That Act allows an execution against the person of
the debtor, to issue in the first instance, upon the application
of the president of the bank; but it also authorizes the'Court
if upon the return of the execution the defendant" dispute the
debt," to 6rder an issue to be made up, &c. to try the action.
In the present case, the Circuit Court did not refuse to direct
such an issue t6 be made up; which had they refused to do, a
mandamils would have beqi the proper process to compel that
to be done, which the Act fequires. But the Circuit Court did
direct an issue, and allow a "pleaof the statute of limitations.
The application now is, that the Circuit Court be ordered
to withdraw that issue, ahd to direct a different issue to be
made up, according to what the counsel for the bank sulpposes
to be the-proper construction of the Act.
We think this is not a proper case for a mandamus. It does.
not differ in principle, from any other case in which the party
should plead a defective plea, and the plaintiff should demur
to it; in which case, there is n.doubt that the revising
power of this Court could be exercised only by'a writ of error.
If thi. motion couald now prevail, it would be-a plain evasion
of the provision of the Act of Congress, -that final judgments
only should be brought before this Court for re-examination.
This case might still be brought"before this.Court by a writ of
error, notwithstanding any opinion expressed upon the mandamus, and the sain question again be discussed upon the final
judgment.' The effect therefore ofthis mode of interposition,
would be to retard' decisions upon questions which were not
final in the Court below, so that th6 same cause might come
before this Court many times, before there would be a final
judgment.
The Court is therefore of opinion that this is not a case
for a mandamus, and the motion is deniel.
VOL. I.
4C

