SUPREME COURT.

J~sns M'DoNMvy,

APPELLANT,

vs-

FREmAN SMALLEY, AND

OTHERS, (XN ALL PORTY.),

Where the record from"the Cburt below, bontained the whole proceedings
in the case, and exhibited all the matters'either party required for a final
dispoaitibn of the case, and the counsel for both the appellant and the appellees, were willing to subriit, upon argument, the whole case to the
final decision of the Court; but it appearedtihat the-Circuit Courtof Ohio
had not decided any question, but that which had been raised upon the
jurisdiction of the Court, the counsel were directed by this Court to argue tfie point ofjurisdiction only. {6211
It cannot be alleged, that a citizen of one state, having title to lands in another state, is disabled froim suing for those lands in the Courts of the United States, by the fact that he derives his title from a citizen of the state
in which the lands lie. {629
M., a citizen of Ohio, apprehensive his title to landsin that state could not
be maintained in the state Court, and being indebted to the plaintiff, a
citizen of,Alabama, tothe amount of $1100, offered to sell andconvey to
him the land, in payment of the debt, stating' in the letter by which the
offer was made, that the title would most probably be maintained in the
Courts ofthe United States, but would fail in the Courts of the state. The
*operty was' estimated at more than the debt, but in consequence of the
difficulties attending the title; he was willing to convey it for the debt,
which was done. The plaintiffin error, after the land was conveyed to him,
gave his bond to make a-quit claim titleto the land, on condition of receiving $1000; held that the titleacquiredby the purchsr, gavejurisdict623s
tion to the Courts of the United States.
The motives which induced . to make the contract for the prchase of
A Court cannot enter into
as
theland, can have no inuence on i validity.
the consideratouof those moties, hen deciding on its jurisdictin.

{624

_

In a cont-actbetween a mortgagor~and mortgagee, belig citizens of diflfereit
sates, it cannot be doubted that an ejecthent, orbill totfreclose, may be
brought in a Court of the United States; by the mortgagee residing in a
at624jl
different state.
Circuit
in Chancery,
th e practice
of the
which gove
The
rules
by this1ourt
'and
ought
to beCourts
observed.
{625] hae
beeon
prescribed
Ohio,
dof by
the Circuit Court
t
THIS was an oappea from
the. complainant in that Court, on a bil filed in the Chancery
sideof the Court;. the object of which was, hrough the aid

of that Court, tQ obl
tain a conveyance of a tract of land, situated in the statte of Ohio.
The comnplainant, a citizen of the . tate of Alabama, derlv
ed title under a "conveyrance from Duncan M'Arthur, a citizen
of Ohio; and the only point decided in the Circuit Court, was
upont the question of jurisdiction.

The Circuit.-Court dismiss-

ed'.the bill, for-Want of jurisdiction; and the ,complainant ap.pealed to this Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

621

(M'Donald vs. Smalley et aL)
]Before the argument commenced, the counsel for both parties asked instructions of the Court 4pon the question, whether, as the record contained the, Whole of the proceedings in
the cause, and exhibited all the matters either party required
for .a final 'disposition, of the case, in this Court, upon all the
points'in controversy, this Court would permit the argument
to go to the whole case, so that a decree could be, given here
upon the whole case; or, whether, an opinion upon the juris'diction. only having been given in '-the Circuit Court, the argument should be 'confined to that question. The Court having advised upon the subject, directed the counsel to argue
the point of jurisdiction only, as no other, than that had been
decided in the Court from Which the.'appealhad been taken.
In the Circuit Court of Ohio, the defendant suggested, that,
M'Donald, the complainant in the bill, was not h 'citizen. of
Ohio; and according to a practice'in the.Courts of the state
of Ohio, under the 'authority of a, law'. of that state, interrogaiorids were exhibited to th complainant, to which answers
were giveh. This law waspassed subsequent to the Act of
Congress, establishing the judiciary system, and was admitted
not to 'be authority in the Courts of 'the United States. The
facts stated' by the complMnidtj in answei to those interroghtories, with' other testimony, furnished the ground taken
;gainst-the jurisdiction of the Court.
On the 14th November 1823, Duncan M'Arthur conveyed,
by deed of indenture, the land in controversy, to the coinplainant; the consider*atiqn expressed in the deed being-1100
dollars, the amount of a debt he owed to the complainant, for
land purchased from him. In reply' to the interrogatory
"whether he was the beneficial 'owner, or was prosecuting the
suit for the benefit of some resident in, Ohio; and whether he
is the real prosecutor of the suit, aid was so at its tommenceTuenh4 ol- whether his nkme w'as' used for the beniefit of a citizen of the state. of Ohio?," the cQmplainant answered, by
referring to a letter from -Duncan M'Arthur to him, dated
July 18th 1828. In that 'letter, Duncan M'Arthur offers to
give.the land in question, 1266 acres, alleged to be-worth ive
dollars per acre, tP pay a,debt of 1100 dollars; suggests ihat
the title is goodi if' pfosecuted in 'the Federal .Coart; "but
state Judges do not understand land causes, and a claimant
in the military district, might as well toss up heads and tails,
as sue in a state Court." It contains also thid suggestion;
'1'shouldyou accept this offer, and not wish tp.'prosecute the
claim yourself, you can make something handsome, I hav6 no
doubt, by selling it to some of ybur neighbours;" and it con:ludes with offering "any assistance in -my power, shonld

6SUPREME

COURT.
(M'Donald =. Salhey et 4)

a suit be brought for recovery of the land'in the Circuit
Court."
He jilso stated, in -his answer, that the deed under which
he claimed4was executed for the purpose-of giving jurisdiction to the Court of the United States; because he believed
that Court safer than any other in the state of Ohio; thit the,
contract was made by letter, of which he had not retained a.
"copy;*sand, that at the time the deed was "wrtten," there
was no special agreement between him and M'Arthui, but,
perhaps, propositions b letter. "I give my bonds to a third
party for a quit claim title to said lands, on condition of their
paying me. 1100 dollars."
The complainant insisted, that the deed from M'Arthur, conveys to M'Donald such a title as will enable him to sustain the
suit 14 a Federal Court;-that it is-sufficient, if. he has any in"terest;-thetb~y accepting the deed, M'Donald has been. paid
his debt, and though he may be 'only mbrtgagee, he may sue
in this Court.
The. respondents contended, that the answer of M'Donald,
shows -thathe is-not the onmer of the Iaid; dkid his manner vf
answering. leaves no doubt, but that the owner i4 a citizen of
Ohio, and that the jurisdiction of the Court, therefore, cannot
bemaintained.
Mr. Baldwin,, and Mr. Dodridge, for the complainant.-It is-evideat, that the complainant-held the land, and,it was
not-material holy he held it. He ,had an Interest in the land, and was a citizen of Alabama. It is notse Isary that a party to su.in the-Courts of the United States, -shall be the sole'
owner, if he is-beneficial-owner of a-part of the land;,if hef has
any interest in the, lands it ,is Aufficient. The class of cases
decided in the Citcuit Court of Pennsylvaiia, by Mr. Justice
Washiiton, h0 -establisHed the principle. Robert -Brown's
jessee vs. Br6n, 1 Wash. Rep. 429. Here the interest in -the
land is-certainly to the extent of the debt- ind the Court'wil
sustiin the jurisdiction, although. the interest may not br comynensur4te with 'the whole of the land. , It is important and np-,
- cessary, and it was in the view of the -framers of the Constitution of the United Stales, that their tribunals should. be opened to those -whobn prejudice, or unjust, and unconstitutional
legislation, in the states, might prevent from maintaining
their- rights in the Courts of the states, and the Courts of
the United States should favour such appeals. Titles may,
and are sometimes bad in.a state, before a stafe Court, which
areperfect under- the decisions of the-national Courts. Huidekper's lessee vs. Douglas, 1 Circuit Court Rep. 258. Mr.
Dodridge also referred to cases, similar in principle, decided
in the Courts of Virginia.

JANUA.RY. TEM 1828.

6n

(WDonald m. Smalley et al.)
Mr. Hammond, for the appellees.The inference to be drawn from the decisions of the Courts
of Pennsylvania, is different from that which the complainants
counsel deduces. The interferenceof the'Courts of .the United
States in relation to titles tQ lands, so as to regulate tthem differently from' the laws of the state, -is to be deprecated; such
property should be held. according to the decisions of the Courts
of the state.
The complainant has nothing but a mortage interest in the
land, and such an interest cannot give jurisdiction to the Courts
of the United States.
The engagement to gime a quit claim deed, coupled 'with the
absence of proof to show that the deed to be' made was to another person than .M'Arthur, authorizes the assertfon that the
whole arrangement was one intended only to aid M'Arthur h4
bringing his title before a Court of the, United States; and
such a proceediog cannot be sustained.
Mr. Chief JuStice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.This suit was instituted in the Circuit Court of the.United
States for the seventh Circuit, and district of Ohio, to obtain a
conveyance of a tractof land, lying in what is termed "the military district;" claimed by the complainant under a patent,
younger than that under which it is held by the defendants.
The complainant ;3 a citizen of Alabama, and claims the land
under a-conveyance irom Duncan M'Arthur, 'who is a citizen
of Ohio. The defendants objected to the, jurisdiction of the
Court; and afterbhearing the parties upon this point, the Court
disniissed the bill, being of. opinion that its jurisdiction'could
not be sustained. From this decree, the complainant has ap'
pealed4 and the cause is now before this Court on the question
of jurisdiction.
The bill states the complainant to be- a citizen and resident
of the state of Alabama, and the defendants to be citizens and
residents of the state of Ohio. It has not been alleged and certainly cannot be alleged, that a citizen of 6ne state, haiing title
to lands in another, is disabled from suing for those lands in the
Courts of the. United States, by thd fact, that he derives- his title from a citizen of the state in which the lands lie': consequently, the single inquiry must be, whethei the conveyance
from M'Arthur to M'Donald Was real or fictitious?
The transaction, as laid before the'Court, appears to-be this;
M'Arthur was apprehensive that his title could notbe sustained in the Courts of the state, in which alone he could sue; and
being indebted fp M'Donald in the sum of $1100, offered to
sell and convey to him the land in controversy, in payment of

SUPREME COURT.
(M'Donald s. Smalley et at.)
this debt. The letter in -which this offer was made, expresses
the opinionr that his title was good, and Would most probably, be
estabfished in' the Courts of the United States, but would fail
in the Courts of the state. He estimates the property asbeing
worth much 'more than the sum he is willing to take for it, but
in.consequence of the difficulties attending the title, he is wilAling to convey it in satisfaction of the debt. He suggests., that if

M'Donald should be'disinclined to engage in the controversy
Limself, he might make an' advantageous sale to someof 1is
neighbours. wh6 might be- dispoped ,to emigrate to Ohio; and

offers to render any service in his "power-to'the proprietor of

,the land, in the prosecution of. the claim'in the Courts of theUnited States.

The contract was concluded by a letter, 'written in answer to
'that which has been stated; of which'the.saidM'Donald retained no copy.. There was no special agreenientetween the plain-,
tiff and M'Arthur" when the 'deed was wYritten, but perhaps
some propositipn by letter. Hegaie'his bond to a third party for making a 'quit claim title to the land, on condition of receihg from' hih'elevdn huti-red dollars.
'isbsimpny,- whieh is all that was laid"befote the Court,
shows, we think, a sale and conveyance io the plaintiff, which
'vas binding on both parties. M'Ddnald'Eoild not have maintained an action for his debt, nor M'Arthur a suit for his land.

His title to it was extinguished, and the eonsideration was re-

ceived. -The motiVes which induced him to -make the contract,
'heher justifiable or qensurable, can have no influence on- its
vialldity. They -were such as had sufficient influence with himsWlf, and he had, a right to act upon them. A Court cannot en'ter into them, *vhen deciding, on: its jurisdiction. The con,veyance appears to be-a real transaction, and the real as well
As nominal parties to the suit,' are citizens'of different states.
The only pat of the testimony which caninspire doubt, respecting its being:an absolute, sale,' is' the admission that the
third party for a quit claim title
plaiftiff gave, his bond to a'.
10.' We are not informed who
to the lend, on payingin-him
this third party was, nor do we.suppose it to die material. The
title of M'Artbur' was vested in :the plaintiff tnd did not -pass
OUt of'him by this bond.. 'A' su- picioxi may ezgist, that it was
for 'M'Arthur. The Court cannrit act upon this suspeicion, .
But-'suppose the fact to be avowed, what influence could it
harye upon iejurisdiction-of the Court? It -would convert the
coniveyance, which -on itg face -appears to' -be absolute, into a
mtortgage.. But this would not affect the question. In-a'contest
lbetween the mortgagor-ahnd mortgagee, being citizens of dii:
ifer'ent a'tates, it cannot be doubted that -an ejec'tment, or a bill

-

JANUARN

TERM, 1828.

625

(MDonald vs. Smalley et a!)
to foreclose, may be brought by the mortgagee, residing in a
different state, in a Court of the United States. Why then may
he not sustain a suit in the same Court, against.-any other
person being a citizen of the same state with the mortgagor.
We can perceive *no reason why he should not. The case depends, we think, on the question, whether the transaction between M'Arthur and M'Donald was real or fictitious ;and we
perceive no reason to doubt its .reality, whether the deed be
considered as absolute or as a mortgage.
A question has been made, whether the Circuit Court ought
to-have noticed the testimony on the conveyance under which
the plaintiff claims, because it was brought irregularly before
them.
By a. law of the state, interrogatories may be propounded
by the defendant In his answer, which the plaintiff is compelled to answer as if they had been propounded in a cross bill.
Although this point has become unimportant in this cause,
the Court thinks it proper to say, that the rules 'which govern
the practice of the Circuiit Courts in Chancery, have been prescribed by this Court, and ought to be observed.
We think there is error in the decree of the Circuit Court
dismissing the complainar 's bill, and that the same ought to be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings according to, law.
This case came on, &c. and was argued on the point of jurisdiction,obn coisideration whereof, This Court is of opinion,
that there is error in the decree of the said Circuit Court dis-

missing the complainant's bill. It is therefore decreed, and ordered by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be and'the same is hereby reversed and annulled.
And it is further ordered, that the cause be remanded to the
said CircuitCourt for further, proceedings to be had therein,

according to law and justice.

VOL. L

