SUPREME COURT,"

THE BANK OF COLUMBIA,

USE OF THE BANK¢ OF THE UNITrD

ST.iTES, vs. JOH.N LAWRENCE.
A promissory note was made at Georgetown, payable at the Bank of Co.
lumbia, in that town ; the defendant, the endorser of the note living in
the county of Alexandria vithin the Distiict of Columbia, ;nd having,
what was alleged to be, anlace of bhsinessin the City of Washington ; and
the notice of the non-pa: inent of the note,, enclosed in a letter and superscribed with his name, was put into the post-office at Georgetown, ad.
dressed to him at that place. Held that this notice was sufficient. 15821
In cases where the party entitled to notice resides in the country, unless
notice sent by the mail i's sufficient, a special messenger must be employed fir the purpose'of sending it, but this case is not one which required
such a duty. {582}
If the defendant had a place of business in the City of Washington, and the
notice served there would-be good, yet it by no means follows, that service at his place of residence in another place, would not be equally good.
so situated, that notice may well be
frequently
Parties
several
places. are
{582|
given at may
eitherbeof'ind
That is not poperly a place of business the commercial under ending of
the terms,a hich has no public notoriety as such, no open or lublie buiness carried on at it by the party, but only occasional employment by
three times week, inf a house occupied by another
him eetee
or
, two
pedron, the party only engaged in settling up his old business. {582}
hntc
isbogh
the same." uti is no rquird ofhm. ose...
h~ome to the party. He may employ the usual andt ordinary modes of conthe holder
has
or not,
of thendis
thepartty
ntie rhe
sogve
noticed
veyance
he tthe patny
tha thien
gnlruleand iwhether
The
582}
of him.
done
all that the law requires
aspsil comnicatentto useoduealigee
isbound
rahonurofanillnote,
Itseems to be well settled, that when the facts are ascertained and undisputed, what shall constitete duplceigence in a questiofiof law. {583}
The rules relative to diligence ought tohe'reasonable and founded in gnerl convenience, and with a viewn o clog, as little as possible, consistently with the safety of the parties, the circulation of paper of this desrip.
tion. 583}
cVhena
person has a dwellingihouse, and a counting-room in the same city
if parties live in dgfro
or town, a notice s eeithereplaceeissufficient
the "post-office is sufficient. Notice, to
ferent post towns, notice throughe
the nearthe holder,
sent by mail
place than
aparty
living atisanother
circumstances,
and to
in such
cases
eat post-office,
good under
common
alone, or the usual couse of
sent by mail, i is distance the
where
notice
is
sufficiency of the notice.
receivig lettels, .which must determine
Some countenance has lately been given in England,"to the practice ofs~nd.
ing a notice by a speeial messenger in extraordinary cases, by allowving
•the-holder to recover of thle endorser the .expenses of serving the niotice
ih this manner. The holder is not bound to use the mail for the purpose
of sending the notice, lie maij employ a special messenger if lie pleases.
but ithas not been decided that lie mm !. To compel the holder to the ex
pense of a special messenger would be unreasonable. 15841

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

579

(The Bank of Columbia vs. Lawrence..)
ERROR to the Circuit -Court of the United States for the
county of Washington.
The plaintiffs in error instituted a suit on a promissory note
against the defendant in error, who was the endorser thereon,
and which was discounted at the Bank of Columbia, and protestedfor non-payment. The note was dated at Georgetown,
where the banking house of the plaintiff at that time was located, and was payable at the Bank of Coluijibia. The evidence
on the part of the plaintiffs established all the facts relative to
the note, which were proper to be proved, except the notice of
non-payment to the defendant, the endorser; and the bill of ex,
ceptibns tendered by the plaintiffs, presented the evidence at
length, upon which the question arose, whether due.notice of
the dishonour of the note had been given, and due'diligence
had been used by the plaintifls to convey such notice to the defer: jants.
rhe opinion of the Court as delivered by Mr. Justite Thonpion, contains a full exhibition of all the evidence, from which
the conclusions of the Court were drawn.
The case was argued by Mr. Key aid Mr. Dunlopi for the
plaintiffs, and by Mr. Jones and Mr. Taylor, for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs it vas urged, that the distance of the actual
residence of the defendant from Georgetown created a difficulty
in giving im a personal notice; and it is not incumbent on the
holder of a note to follow the endorser, or to resort to other thai
the ordinary modes of conveyance; the post-office has always
heervdieemed this mode, and it. was the usage of this bank, as
well a of 11 other banks in the District of Columbia to proceed
in this manner. It was claimed that the defendant knew of this
usage. This usage, therefore, became a part of the contract;
and that an agreement to comply with the usage is binding, has
been decided at the present session of this Court, in Brent's Executors vs. The Bank of the .Metropolis, (ante p. 89.) Benner
ts. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 590. Mills vs. The Bank
of the United States, 11 IW7heat. 431. These cases show that
a departure from the general law relative to a demand of payment, when according to established custom, was sustained.
The evidence showing that the defendant transacted business
at his former residence in Washington, does not establish that "
as his established place of business, and if it did, the bank was
not obliged to give a notice there, as it was not in the place
where the note was dated, and where the note was payable.
Objections -of equal, perhaps of greater validity, would have
been made had any other mode beeff erfxployed; and therefore
the notice through the post-office, which gave the opportunity
to find it where the defendant was accustomed to'receive his
letters, was the most proper. The reasonableness of notice is i:

580

SUPREME COURT.

(The Bank of Columbia vs. Lawrence.)
question to be decided by the Court-the time of giving notice
and the place where, are questions of law. Tindall vs, Brown,
1 T. .?. 167. Chittj on Bills, 292. Where the holder and endorser reside in the same town, the rule is, that the notice must
.be personal, or left. at the endorser's residence, or place of business. When the endorser's residence or place of business is
in a different town, the holder is not bound to follow him there,
but may give notice through the post-office. Chtit on Bills, 288.
Ireland vs. Kipp, 10 John. Rep. 490. Same vs. Same, I 1John. 231.
What constitutei a place of business is a question of law, although the facts in reference thereto may be for the decision
of the Jury, and in this case, the Court below had the right to
say, and should have said the evidence was not sufficient, supposing it uncontradicted, to make the house of the former residence of the defendant his place of business. Cited Chitty on
Bills, 285-6. Bank of Utica vs. Smith, 18 John. 200. 16 ohn.
Rep. 218. Reed vs. Payne.
Mr. Jones and Mr. Taylor, for the defendant.
The claim to maintain the rights of the plaintiffs, by showing
a usage relative to notice of the dishonour of notes or bills may,
if it shall be admitted, establish a pri iciple of gi eat danger in
reference to the subject matter.- The usage will operate in favour of an endorser, who by, residence or other circumstances,
may be supposed to be acquainted with it, and another, a distant endorser, will not be within its influence. A waiver of the
regular mode of givink notice bf the dishonour of a bill cannot
be implied, it must be proved tQhave been expressly declared.
Chitty, 308.
2. The fiotice should have been sent to the place of the defendant's business, and this.was in Washington; and the holder
of a bill, must adopt the usual means to convey or give the notice. 11 John. 490. The nearest post-office may not always-be
the proper post-office; as cases may exist in which, for c6nvenience, a party is in the practiee of going to 4ndusing a more
distant post-office. 10 John. 411. Nor is a post-office the proper place to leave a notice not intended to be conveyedfromi ;
as post-offices are places from which letters are to beforwarded,
and it is not their duty to receive,-or are, they responsible for
letters which are to be left in them.
-The expense of sending a special messenger is to be paid by
the party to whom he is sent, and^ as the defendant was not a
resident of Georgetown, such a roessenger should have been
employed to give thenotice. Chitll on Bills, 276, 278.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinibn of the Court.This case comes before the Court upon a writ of error to
the Circuit Court of the District of. Columbia,

JANUARY TERM, 1898.

581

(The-Bank of Columbia vs. Lwrence.)
The defendant was sued as endorser of a promissory note for
V5OOO, made by Joseph Mulligan, bearing date the 15th of July
1819, and payable sixty days after date, at the Bank of Columbia.
The making and endorsing the note, and the demand of payment,
were duly proved.; and the only question upon. the trial was
touching the manner'in which notice of non-payment was given
to the endorser; no objection being made to the sufficiency of
the notice in poiht of time.
The material facts-before the Court upon this part of the
case, as ghown by the bill of-exceptions were; that the bankinghouse of the plaintiffs-was in Georgetown, at which place the
note ippears to be--dated. That some time before the rote fell
due, the defendant had lived in.the city of Washington, and
carried on the business of a m&ocro leather dresser, keeping a
shop and living in a house of his own, in the said city. That
about the year 1818; he sold his shop and. stock in trade and
relinquished: his business, and removed with, his family to a
farm, in Alexandria county, withiu the District of Columbia,
and about two or three miles from Georgetown. Tfiat the
Georgetown post-office, was the neare' .post-office to his place
of, residence, and the one at which he usually received his le'tters.

The notice of non-payment was put into the post-office, at
Georgetown, addressed to the defendant at that place. It was
proved, on the part of the defendant,'that at the time of his removal into -the country, and from that time until after the note
in question fell due, he continued to be the olvner of the house
in Washington where he formerly lived; and Which was occupied by his sister-in-law Mrs. Harbaugh. '-That he came frequently and regularly every week, and as often as two or three
times a week, to this'house; where he was employed .inwinding up his'former business and settling his accounts, and where
hP, kept his books of account, and where*his bank notices, such
as were usually served by-the runner of the bank on parties who
were to pay notes, were sometimes left, and somctimes at a
shop opposite to his house; and where also his newspapers and
foreign letters were left. That his coming to town and so employing himself,, whs generally- known to persons having buSiness with him. That his residence in. the country was-knowvn
to the cashier of the bank. That'ther. was a regular daily mail
from Georgetown to the city-of Washington, and that the defendant's house was situated in Waqhington, less than-a quarter of a mile from-Georgeto.wn. I
There was also some evidence given, on the part of the plaintiffs, tending to show that the usage of the bank in serving notices in similar cases, was conformably to the one here pursued, and that the defendant was apprized of such usage. But

SUPREME COURT.
(The Bank of Columbia va. Lawrence.)
that testimony'may be laid out of view; as this Court does tio:
found its opinion in any measure upon that part of the case.
Upon this evidence the plaintiffs prayed the Court to instruct
the jury, ihat it was. not incumbent on them to have left the
notice of the non-payment of the note at the house occupied by
Mrs. Harbaugh, as stated in the evidence but that it was sufficient, under the circumstances stated, to leave the notice at the
post-office in Georgetown; which instructions the Court refused td give, but instructed the jury'that their verdict must be
governed according to their opinion and finding on the subject
of usage which had beeni given in evidence.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant.
From this statement of the case it appears that the note was
made at Georgetown, payable at the Bank of Columbia, in that
town. That the defendant," when he endorsed the note, lived in
the county of Alexandtria, within the District of Columbia, and
having what is alleged to have been a place of business in the
city of Washington; and the notice of non-payment was put
into the Georgetown p5ost-ofice addressed to the defendant at
that place, by which it s understood, that the notice was either enclosed in a let'ter, or the notice itself sealed and superscribed with the name of the defendant, with the direction
"Georgetown" upon it; and whether this notice is sufficient
is the question, to be decided.
•If it should be admitted, that the defendant had what is usually-calIledl a place of business in the city of Washington, and
that notice served there would haye been good; it by no means
follows, that service at his place of residence, in a different
place, would not be equally good. Parties may be and .fre.quently are so, situated, that notice may wvell be given at either
odf-several places. But the evidence does not show that the defendant had a place' of business in the city of Washington, according to the usual1 ommercial understanding.of a place aof
bu'siness. There' was no public notoriety of any description
gi'cen to it as such. No open or public business ot any kind
carried on, but merely occasional employment there, two or
three times a week, in a house occupied by another person ;
and the defendauit only engaged in settlinig up his old business.
In this view of the case the inquiry is 'narrowed down to the
single point, whether notice through th post-office at Geor'getown was good i the defendant residing in the conntry two or
three miles, distant from that place, in the county of Alexandria,
The general rule'is, that the party whose duty it is to give
noticein such cases, is bound to use due diligence in ommunicating such notice- But it is not required of him to see that
the notice isbrought home to the party. He may employ the

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

583

(The Bank of Columbia vs. Lawrence.)
nsual and ordinary mode of conveyance, and whether the notice reaches the party or not, the holder has done all that the
law requires of him.
It seems at this day to be well settled, that when the facts
are ascertained and undisputed, what snail constitute due dili-'
gencc is a question of law. This is certainly best Ealculated
to have fixed on uniform rules on the subject, and is highly important for the safety of holders of commercial paper:
And these rules ought to be reasonable and founded In general convenience, and with a view to'clog, as little as possible,
consistently with the safety of parties, the cir,culation of paper
of this description; and the rules which have been settled on
this subject, haye had in view these objects. Thuswhen a paity entitled to notice, has in tie same city or town. a dwelling.,
house and counting-house or place of business, within the compact part of such city or town, a notice delivered at either
place Is sufficient, and if his dwelling and place of business be'
within the district of a letter carrier, a letter containing such
notice addressed to the party and left at the pbst-office, would
also be sufficient. All these are usual and ordinary modeg of
communication, and such as' afford reasonable ground for prmsuming that the notice will be brought home to the, party with-"
out unreasonable delay. So when the holder and endorser live
in different post towns, notice sent by the mail is sufficient,
whether it reaches the endorsere or not. And this f9r the same
reason, that the mail being a usual channel of communication,
notice sent by it, is evidence of due diligence. And for the
sake of general convenience it has been found necessary to enlarge this rule. And it is accordingly held, that when the party to be affected, by the notice, resides in a different place from
the holder, the notice may be seut by the mail to the post-office nearest to the party entitled to such notice.' It has not been
thought advisable, nor is it believed that it Would comport
with practical convenience, to fix any precise distance from the
post-office, within which the party must reside, in order to
make this a good service of the iotice. Nor would we be understood, -'s laying itdown as a universal 'rule that the notice
must be sent to the post-office nearest to the residence of the
party to whom it is addressed. If he was in the habit of receiving his letters through a more distant post-office, and that
circumstance was known to the holder, or party giving the notice, that might be the more proper channel of communication,
because he would be most likely to receive it in that way; and
it would be the ordinary modeof communicating Information
to him, and therefore evidence of due diligence.
1A cases of"this description, where notice is sent by mail to
a party living in the country, it is distance alone or the usual

584

SUPREME COURT.

(The Bank of Columbia vs.'Lawrence.)
course bf receivinletters which must determine'the sufficien.
cy of the notice. The fesidence of the defendant therefore be,ing in the county of Alexandria, cannot affect the question,, It
was'ihproof that the post-office in, Qeorgetown was the one
nearest his residence, and only two or three miles distant, at d
through which -he usually received his letters. The letter con,taining the not~ice, it is true, was directed to him at Georgetown. But there is nothing showing that this occasioned any
mistake or misapprehension with respect to the person intended, 6P any delay in receiving the" notice. And, as. the letter was
there to be delivered to the defendant, and not to be forwarded
'to any other post-office, the address was tnimportant, and could
mislead no one.
No cases have fallen under the notice of the Court, wlich
have. suggested any limits 'to the distance from the post-office,
within which a party must reside in order to make the service
of-th6 notice in this manner good. Cases however, have occurred, where the distance was much greater, thai. in the olie now
befori the Court, and the notice -held *sufficient.(16 ohn. 218.)
In cases whete the party entitled to notice resides in the country, unless notice sent by mail is sufficient, a speeial messenger
iiiust be employed for the pirpose of serving it. And we think
that the present case is clearly one which does not impose upon the. plaintiffs, such duty. We do not mean to say no such
cases dan arisi, but they will seldom, if ever, occur, and at al,
events such a course ought not to be-requireid of a holder, except under very special circumstances. Some countenance has
lately been given to this practice in England in extraordinary
cases, by. allowing the holder 'to recover of the endorsei the
expenses of serving notice by a zpecial messenger. The case
of Pearson vs. Crallan, (2 mith'8 Rep. 404.- Chitty, 229, note,)
is one of this description. -But in that case the Court did not
say that it was necessary to send a special messenger, and it
was left to the jury to decide'whether it was done wantonly or
not. *The holder is not. bouhd to use the mail for the purpose
of sending notice; He moj employ a special messenger, if he
pleases, but no case has been found where the English Courts
have directly decided that he mus!.' To compel the holder to
incur such, expense would be unreasonable, and the policy of
adopting a rule' that will throw such an increased charge upon
'commercial paper, 'on the 'party bound to pay,, is at-least very
questionable.
We are accordingly of opinion that the notice of non-payment was duly. served upon the defendant, and that 'thd Court
erred in refusing so to'instruct the jury.
Judgment reversed and a venirefacias de swvo awarded.

