SUPREME COURT

JOSEPH MANDEVILLE,

& Co.,

ONE OF THE

FIRM

OF RICHARD SLADEo

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, )8. GEORGE HOLEY AND THO-

MAS SUCKLEY, JOINT MERCHANTS

OF HOLEY k

SUCKLEY,

IN TRADE,

UNDER THE FIRM

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

Under the law of Virginia, a confession of judgment by the defendant, is a
release of errors.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the county of Alexandia.
An action was instituted in the Circuit Court for the district
of Columbia, by the defendants in error, against Richard Slade,
James Anderson, and the plaintiff in error, trading under the
firm of Richard Slade & Co.; and the suit having abated, as to
Slade, by his death, and by return, as to Anderson, it-was prosecuted against Joseph Mandeville only.
The declaration contained the usual money counts, and the
damages were laid at ten thousand five hundred dollars.
By consent of parties, an order was made by the Court, referring the accounts to the Auditor of the Court, to state and
report them to the Court; this report to be subject to exceptions;
and when the report should be settled, then the same to be substituted for a trial by jury, and a judgment to be entered for
the whole sum, which should be finally ascertained by the
Court to be due.
The Auditor reported a balance of 24031. 28. 6d., of which
1860. 6s. 7d. was principal, to be due to the plaintiff below-which, with the exchange, amounted to eleven thousand six
hundred and ninety-five dollars and twenty cents, deducting the
interest included in the balance reported by the Auditor; the
principal of the debt found to be due, was less than the dama
ges laid in the declaration.
No exceptions having been filed, Mandeville, the plaintiff in
error; at a term subsequent to the report, came in, and confessed a judgment for the sum reported, with interest, from the 7th
of December 1824.
Mr. Swann, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Taylor, for defendants in error.
Mr. Swann.-The writ issued i, a case, is no part of the record, unless oyer of it is craved; and the confession of judgment goes to the declaration, in which, the damages claimed, are
stated to be 10,500 dollars. Upon the confession of judgment for
11,695 dollars'20 cents, the Couirt gave a judgment which was
erroneous, as to this sum, beyond the amount claimed in the
declaration. The law of Virginia, which authorizes a jury to
give damages, as the principal of the debt, to the amount laid
in the declarationi and to allow interest from a preceding peri-

JANUARY TERM, 1828.

137

(Mandeville vs. Suckley et a].)
od, making the whole amount of the verdict greater than the
damages in the declaration, does not apply in this case, as the
debt is a sterling debt.
If ihis judgnent is sustained, the plaintiff in error will be
compelled to pay interest upon interest, as both principal and
interest are included in the sum allowed by the Auditor. The
verdict of a jury, giving the principal and interest from a particular day, on the same, would have had a different effect.
Mr. Taylor, for defendants in error.,
The Court should allow the defendants damages upon the
amount of the judgment, as the plaintiff ii error was not jusfified in thus proceeding against his own confession of judgment, and its whole purpose was delay. The form of the
confession of iudgment is such as is usual; and it is the same
form of judgment, as upon the verdict of a jury. The law
of Virginia authorizes a jury to give damages, which may, in
the whole amount, exceed the damages laid in the declaration. The interest being stated to commence at a period anterior to the day of trial, a party may come in, and agree to
enlarge damages. By the Act of Assembly, in Virginia, in
1792, a judgment by confession is equivalent to a release of
errors.

.Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.The Court are satisfied in this case, that under the law of
Virginia, a confession of judgment by the plaintiff in error in
the original suit, is a release of errors.
Judgment affirmed, with costs and .lamages, at the rate of
ix. per centum per annum.

VOL. 1.

