OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 97-873.

Argued April 20, 1998-Decided June 25, 1998

When the Office of Special Investigations of the Department of Justice's
Criminal Division (OSI) subpoenaed respondent Balsys, a resident alien,
to testify about his wartime activities between 1940 and 1944 and his
immigration to the United States, he claimed the Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination, based on his fear of prosecution by
a foreign nation. The Federal District Court granted OSI's petition to
enforce the subpoena, but the Second Circuit vacated the order, holding
that a witness with a real and substantial fear of prosecution by a foreign country may assert the privilege to avoid giving testimony in a
domestic proceeding, even if the witness has no valid fear of a criminal
prosecution in this country.
Held, Concern with foreign prosecution is beyond the scope of the SelfIncrimination Clause. Pp. 671-700.
(a) As a resident alien, Balsys is a "person" who, under that Clause,
cannot "be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself," See Kwong Hai Chew v. Colding, 344 U. S. 590, 596. However,
the question here is whether a criminal prosecution by a foreign government not subject to this country's constitutional guarantees presents a
"criminal case" for purposes of the privilege. Pp. 671-672.
(b) Balsys initially relies on the textual contrast between the Sixth
Amendment, which clearly applies only to domestic criminal proceedings, and the Fifth, with its broader reference to "any criminal case,"
to argue that "any criminal case" means exactly that, regardless of the
prosecuting authority. But the argument overlooks the cardinal rule
to construe provisions in context. See King v. St. Vincent's Hospital,
502 U. S. 215, 221. Because none of the other provisions of the Fifth
Amendment is implicated except by action of the government that it
binds, it would have been strange to choose such associates for a Clause
meant to take a broader view. Further, a more modest understanding,
that "any criminal case" distinguishes the Fifth Amendment's SelfIncrimination Clause from its Clause limiting grand jury indictments to
"capital, or otherwise infamous crime[s]," provides an explanation for
the text of the privilege. Indeed, there is no known clear common-law
precedent or practice, contemporaneous with the framing, for looking to

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Syllabus
the possibility of foreign prosecution as a premise for claiming the privilege. Pp. 672-674.
(c) In the precursors of this case, the Court concluded that prosecution in a state jurisdiction not bound by the Self-Incrimination Clause
is beyond the purview of the privilege. United States v. Murdock, 284
U. S. 141. United States v. Saline Bank of Va., 1 Pet. 100, and Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U.S. 186, distinguished. The Court's precedent
turned away from this proposition once, in Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S.
1, 3, where it applied the Fourteenth Amendment due process incorporation to the Self-Incrimination Clause, so as to bind the States as well as
the National Government by its terms. It immediately said, in Murphy
v. Waterfront Comm'n of N. Y Harbor,378 U.S. 52, 57, that Malloy
necessitated a reconsideration of Murdock's rule. After Malloy, the
Fifth Amendment limitation was no longer framed for one jurisdiction
alone, each jurisdiction having instead become subject to the same privilege claim flowing from the same source. Since fear of prosecution in
the one jurisdiction now implicated the very privilege binding upon the
other, the Murphy opinion sensibly recognized that if a witness could
not assert the privilege in such circumstances, the witness could be
"whipsawed" into incriminating himself under both state and federal
law, even though the privilege was applicable to each. Such whipsawing is possible because the privilege against self-incrimination can be
exchanged by the government for an immunity to prosecutorial use of
any compelled inculpatory testimony. Kastigar v. United States, 406
U. S.441,448-449. Such an exchange by the government is permissible
only when it provides immunity as broad as the privilege. After Malloy had held the privilege binding on the state jurisdictions as well
as the National Government, it would have been intolerable to allow a
prosecutor in one or the other jurisdiction to eliminate the privilege by
offering immunity less complete than the privilege's dual jurisdictional
reach. To the extent that the Murphy Court undercut Murdock's rationale on historical grounds, its reasoning that English cases supported
a more expansive reading of the Clause is flawed and cannot be accepted
now. Pp. 674-690.
(d) Murphy discusses a catalog of 'Policies of the Privilege," which
could suggest a concern broad enough to encompass foreign prosecutions. However, the adoption of such a revised theory would rest on
Murphy's treatment of English cases, which has been rejected as an
indication of the Clause's meaning. Moreover, although Murphy catalogs aspirations furthered by the Clause, its discussion does not weigh
the host of competing policy concerns that would be raised in a legitimate reconsideration of the Clause's scope. Contrary to Balsys's

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Syllabus
contention, general personal testimonial integrity or privacy is not a
reliable guide to the Clause's scope of protection. Fifth Amendment
tradition offers, in practice, a conditional protection of testimonial privacy. Since the judiciary could not recognize fear of foreign prosecution and at the same time preserve the Government's existing rights to
seek testimony in exchange for immunity (because domestic courts could
not enforce the immunity abroad), extending the privilege would change
the balance of private and governmental interests that has been accepted for as long as there has been Fifth Amendment doctrine. Balsys
also argues that Murphy's policy catalog supports application of the
privilege in order to prevent the Government from overreaching to facilitate foreign criminal prosecutions in a spirit of "cooperative internationalism." Murphy recognized "cooperative federalism"--the teamwork of state and national officials to fight interstate crime-but only
to underscore the significance of the Court's holding that a federal court
could no longer ignore fear of state prosecution when ruling on a privilege claim. Since in this case there is no counterpart to Malloy, imposing the Fifth Amendment beyond the National Government, there is no
premise in Murphy for appealing to "cooperative internationalism" by
analogy to "cooperative federalism." The analogy must, instead, be to
the pre-Murphy era when the States were not bound by the privilege.
Even if "cooperative federalism" and "cooperative internationalism" did
support expanding the privilege's scope, Balsys has not shown that the
likely costs and benefits justify such expansion. Cooperative conduct
between the United States and foreign nations may one day develop to
a point at which fear of foreign prosecution could be recognized under
the Clause as traditionally understood, but Balsys has presented no interest rising to such a level of cooperative prosecution. Pp. 690-700.
119 F. 3d 122, reversed and remanded.
SOUTER, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, and KENNEDY, JJ., joined, and in which

SCALiA and THOMAS, JJ., joined as to Parts I, II, and III. STEVENS, J.,
filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 700. GINSBURG, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, post, p. 701. BREYER, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which
GINSBURG, J., joined, post, p. 702.

Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben argued the cause
for the United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General
Keeney, BarbaraMcDowell, and Joseph C. Wyderko.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

Ivars Berzins argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*
JUSTICE SOUTER delivered the opinion of the Court.t
By administrative subpoena, the Office of Special Investigations of the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice (OSI) sought testimony from the respondent,
Aloyzas Balsys, about his wartime activities between 1940
and 1944 and his immigration to the United States in 1961.
Balsys declined to answer such questions, claiming the Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, based on
his fear of prosecution by a foreign nation. We hold that
concern with foreign prosecution is beyond the scope of the
Self-Incrimination Clause.
I
Respondent Aloyzas Balsys is a resident alien living in
Woodhaven, New York, having obtained admission to this
country in 1961 under the Immigration and Nationality Act,
8 U. S. C. § 1201, on an immigrant visa and alien registration
issued at the American Consulate in Liverpool. In his application, he said that he had served in the Lithuanian army
between 1934 and 1940, and had lived in hiding in Plateliai,
Lithuania, between 1940 and 1944. Balsys swore that the
information was true, and signed a statement of understanding that if his application contained any false information
or materially misleading statements, or concealed any material fact, he would be subject to criminal prosecution and
deportation.
*ElizabethHoltzman and Sanford Hauslerfiled a brief for the World
Jewish Congress et al. as amici curiaeurging reversal.
John D. Cline, BarbaraE. Bergman, and John L. Pollok filed a brief
for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as amici

curiae urging affmnance.
tJusTIcE SCALA and JUSTICE THOmAS join only Parts I, II, and III of
this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

OSI, which was created to institute denaturalization and
deportation proceedings against suspected Nazi war criminals, is now investigating whether, contrary to his representations, Balsys participated in Nazi persecution during
World War II. Such activity would subject him to deportation for persecuting persons because of their race, religion,
national origin, or political opinion under §§ 1182(a)(3)(E) and
1251(a)(4)(D), as well as for lying on his visa application
under §§ 1182(a)(6)(C)(i) and 1251(a)(1)(A).
When OSI issued a subpoena requiring Balsys to testify
at a deposition, he appeared and gave his name and address,
but he refused to answer any other questions, such as those
directed to his wartime activities in Europe between 19401945 and his immigration to the United States in 1961. In
response to all such questions, Balsys invoked the Fifth
Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination,
claiming that his answers could subject him to criminal
prosecution. He did not contend that he would incriminate
himself under domestic law,' but claimed the privilege because his responses could subject him to criminal prosecution
by Lithuania, Israel, and Germany.
OSI responded with a petition in Federal District Court to
enforce the subpoena under § 1225(a). Although the District
Court found that if Balsys were to provide the information
requested, he would face a real and substantial danger of
prosecution by Lithuania and Israel (but not by Germany),
it granted OSI's enforcement petition and ordered Balsys to
testify, treating the Fifth Amendment as inapplicable to a
claim of incrimination solely under foreign law. 918 F. Supp.
588 (EDNY 1996). Balsys appealed, and the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the District Court's
order, holding that a witness with a real and substantial fear
of prosecution by a foreign country may assert the Fifth
Amendment privilege to avoid giving testimony in a domes' The Government advises us that the statute of limitation bars criminal
prosecution for any misrepresentation. Tr. of Oral Arg. 4.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

tic proceeding, even if the witness has no valid fear of a criminal prosecution in this country. 119 F. 3d 122 (1997). We
granted certiorari, 522 U. S. 1072 (1998), to resolve a conflict
among the Circuits on this issue 2 and now reverse.
II
The Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment
provides that "[n]o person.., shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself." U. S. Const.,
Amdt. 5. Resident aliens such as Balsys are considered
"persons" for purposes of the Fifth Amendment and are entitled to the same protections under the Clause as citizens.
See Kwong Hai Chew v. Colding, 344 U. S. 590, 596 (1953).
The parties do not dispute that the Government seeks to
"compel" testimony from Balsys that would make him "a witness against himself." The question is whether there is a
risk that Balsys's testimony will be used in a proceeding that
is a "criminal case."
Balsys agrees that the risk that his testimony might subject him to deportation is not a sufficient ground for asserting the privilege, given the civil character of a deportation
proceeding. See INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U. S. 1032,
1038-1039 (1984). If, however, Balsys could demonstrate
2

See United States v. Gecas, 120 F. 3d 1419 (CAll 1997) (en banc) (hold-

ing that the privilege cannot be invoked based on fear of prosecution
abroad); United States v. (Under Seal), 794 F. 2d 920 (CA4) (same), cert.
denied sub nom. Araneta v. United States, 479 U. S. 924 (1986); In re Parker, 411 F. 2d 1067 (CA10 1969) (same), vacated as moot, 897 U. S. 96
(1970).
We have granted certiorari in cases raising this question twice before

but did not reach its merits in either case. See Zicarelli v. New Jersey
Comm'%of Investigation, 406 U. S. 472 (1972) (finding that because the
petitioner did not face a "real and substantial" risk of foreign prosecution,
it was unnecessary to decide whether the privilege can be asserted based
on fear of foreign prosecution); Parkerv. United States, 397 U. S. 96 (1970)
(per curiam) (vacating and remanding with instructions to dismiss as
moot).

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

that any testimony he might give in the deportation investigation could be used in a criminal proceeding against him
brought by the Government of either the United States or
one of the States, he would be entitled to invoke the privilege. It "can be asserted in any proceeding, civil or criminal, administrative or judicial, investigatory or adjudicatory,"
in which the witness reasonably believes that the information sought, or discoverable as a result of his testimony, could
be used in a subsequent state or federal criminal proceeding.
Kastigarv. United States, 406 U. S. 441, 444-445 (1972); see
also McCarthy v. Arndstein, 266 U. S. 34, 40 (1924) (the privilege "applies alike to civil and criminal proceedings, wherever the answer might tend to subject to criminal responsibility him who gives it"). But Balsys makes no such claim,
contending rather that his entitlement to invoke the privilege arises because of a real and substantial fear that his
testimony could be used against him by Lithuania or Israel
in a criminal prosecution. The reasonableness of his fear is
not challenged by the Government, and we thus squarely
face the question whether a criminal prosecution by a foreign
government not subject to our constitutional guarantees presents a "criminal case" for purposes of the privilege against
self-incrimination.
III
Balsys relies in the first instance on the textual contrast
between the Sixth Amendment, which clearly applies only
to domestic criminal proceedings, and the Compelled SelfIncrimination Clause, with its facially broader reference
to "any criminal case." The same point is developed by
Balsys's amici,3 who argue that "any criminal case" means
exactly that, regardless of the prosecuting authority. According to the argument, the Framers' use of the adjective
"any" precludes recognition of the distinction raised by the
8

See Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al.
as Amici Curiae 5.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

Government, between prosecution by a jurisdiction that is
itself bound to recognize the privilege and prosecution by a
foreign jurisdiction that is not. But the argument overlooks
the cardinal rule to construe provisions in context. See
King v. St. Vincent's Hospital, 502 U. S. 215, 221 (1991). In
the Fifth Amendment context, the Clause in question occurs
in the company of guarantees of grand jury proceedings, defense against double jeopardy, due process, and compensation for property taking. Because none of these provisions
is implicated except by action of the government that it
binds, it would have been strange to choose such associates
for a Clause meant to take a broader view, and it would be
strange to find such a sweep in the Clause now. See Wharton v. Wise, 153 U. S. 165, 169-170 (1894) (noscitura sociis);
see also Gustafson v. Alloyd Co., 513 U. S. 561, 575 (1995)
(same). The oddity of such a reading would be especially
stark if the expansive language in question is open to another
reasonable interpretation, as we think it is. Because the
Fifth Amendment opens by requiring a grand jury indictment or presentment "for a capital, or otherwise infamous
crime,"' 4 the phrase beginning with "any" in the subsequent
Self-Incrimination Clause may sensibly be read as making it
clear that the privilege it provides is not so categorically
limited. It is plausible to suppose the adjective was inserted only for that purpose, not as taking the further step
of defining the relevant prosecutorial jurisdiction internationally. We therefore take this to be the fair reading of
the adjective "any," and we read the Clause contextually as
4

As a whole, the Amendment reads as follows: "'No person shall be held
to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or
naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or
public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken
for public use, without just compensation."

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

apparently providing a witness with the right against compelled self-incrimination when reasonably fearing prosecution by the government whose power the Clause limits, but
not otherwise. Since there is no helpful legislative history,5
and because there was no different common law practice at
the time of the framing, see Part III-C, infra; cf. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 563-564 (1892) (listing
a sample of cases, including preframing cases, in which the
privilege was asserted, none of which involve fear of foreign
prosecution), there is no reason to disregard the contextual
reading. This Court's precedent has indeed adopted that
so-called same-sovereign interpretation.
A
The currently received understanding of the Bill of
Rights as instituted "to curtail and restrict the general powers granted to the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial
Branches" of the National Government defined in the original constitutional articles, New York Times Co. v. United
5

See Gecas, 120 F. 3d, at 1435 (noting that the Clause has "virtually
no legislative history"); 5 The Founders' Constitution 262 (P. Kurland &
R. Lerner eds. 1987) (indicating that the Clause as originally drafted and
introduced in the First Congress lacked the phrase "any criminal case,"
which was added at the behest of Representative Lawrence on the ground
that the Clause would otherwise be "in some degree contrary to laws
passed").
In recent years, scholarly attention has refined our knowledge of the
previous manifestations of the privilege against self-incrimination, the
present culmination of such scholarship being R. Helmholz et al., The Privilege Against Self-Incrimination (1997). What we know of the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Fifth Amendment, however, gives
no indication that the Framers had any sense of a privilege more comprehensive than common law practice then revealed. See Moglen, Taking
the Fifth: Reconsidering the Origins of the Constitutional Privilege
Against Self-Incrimination, 92 Mich. L. Rev. 1086, 1123 (1994) ("[Ihe legislative history of the Fifth Amendment adds little to our understanding
of the history of the privilege"). As to the common law practice, see Part
III-C, infra.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

States, 403 U. S. 713, 716 (1971) (percuriam) (Black, J., concurring) (emphasis deleted), was expressed early on in Chief
Justice Marshall's opinion for the Court in the leading case
of Barronex rel. Tiernan v. Mayor of Baltimore,7 Pet. 243,
247 (1833): the Constitution's "limitations on power.., are
naturally, and, we think, necessarily applicable to the government created by the instrument," and not to "distinct
[state] governments, framed by different persons and for different purposes."
To be sure, it would have been logically possible to decide
(as in Barron) that the "distinct [state] governments ...
framed.., for different purposes" were beyond the ambit of
the Fifth Amendment, and at the same time to hold that the
self-incrimination privilege, good against the National Government, was implicated by fear of prosecution in another
jurisdiction. But after Barron and before the era of Fourteenth Amendment incorporation, that would have been an
unlikely doctrinal combination, and no such improbable development occurred.
The precursors of today's case were those raising the question of the significance for the federal privilege of possible
use of testimony in state prosecution. Only a handful of
early cases even touched on the problem. In Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591 (1896), a witness raised the issue,
claiming the privilege in a federal proceeding based on his
fear of prosecution by a State, but we found that a statute
under which immunity from federal prosecution had been
conferred provided for immunity from state prosecution as
well, obviating any need to reach the issue raised. Id., at,
606-608. In Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372 (1905), a Fourteenth Amendment case, we affirmed a sentence for contempt imposed on a witness in a state proceeding who had
received immunity from state prosecution but refused to answer questions based on a fear that they would subject him
to federal prosecution. Although there was no reasonable
fear of a prosecution by the National Government in that

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

case, we addressed the question whether a self-incrimination
privilege could be invoked in the one jurisdiction based on
fear of prosecution by the other, saying that "[w]e think the
legal immunity is in regard to a prosecution in the same jurisdiction, and when that is fully given it is enough." Id., at
382. A year later, in the course of considering whether a
federal witness, immunized from federal prosecution, could
invoke the privilege based on fear of state prosecution, we
adopted the general proposition that "the possibility that information given by the witness might be used" by the other
government is, as a matter of law, "a danger so unsubstantial
and remote" that it fails to trigger the right to invoke the
privilege. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 69 (1906).
"[I]f the argument were a sound one it might be carried
still further and held to apply not only to state prosecutions within the same jurisdiction, but to prosecutions
under the criminal laws of other States to which the
witness might have subjected himself. The question
has been fully considered in England, and the conclusion
reached by the courts of that country [is] that the only
danger to be considered is one arising within the same
jurisdiction and under the same sovereignty. Queen v.
Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311[, 121 Eng. Rep. 730]; King of the
Two Sicilies v. Willcox, 7 State Trials (N. S.), 1049, 1068;
State v. March, 1 Jones (N. Car.), 526; State v. Thomas,
98 N. Car. 599." Ibid.
A holding to this effect came when United States v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141 (1931), "definitely settled" the question
whether in a federal proceeding the privilege applied on account of fear of state prosecution, concluding "that one under
examination in a federal tribunal could not refuse to answer
on account of probable incrimination under state law."
United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 396 (1933).
"The English rule of evidence against compulsory selfincrimination, on which historically that contained in

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

the Fifth Amendment rests, does not protect witnesses
against disclosing offenses in violation of the laws of
another country. King of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox,
7 State Trials (N. S.) 1049, 1068. Queen v. Boyes, 1
B. & S., at 330[, 121 Eng. Rep., at 738]. This court has
held that immunity against state prosecution is not essential to the validity of federal statutes declaring that
a witness shall not be excused from giving evidence on
the ground that it will incriminate him, and also that
the lack of state power to give witnesses protection
against federal prosecution does not defeat a state immunity statute. The principle established is that full
and complete immunity against prosecution by the government compelling the witness to answer is equivalent
to the protection furnished by the rule against compulsory self-incrimination. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142
U.S. 547. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 606. Jack
v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, 381. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.
43, 68. As appellee at the hearing did not invoke protection against federal prosecution, his plea is without
merit and the government's demurrer should have been
sustained." Murdock, 284 U. S., at 149.
Murdock's resolution of the question received a subsequent complement when we affirmed again that a State could
compel a witness to give testimony that might incriminate
him under federal law, see Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S.
371 (1958), overruled by Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of
N. Y Harbor,378 U. S.52 (1964), testimony that we had previously held to be admissible into evidence in the federal
courts, see Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S.487 (1944),
overruled by Murphy, supra, at 80.
B
It has been suggested here that our precedent addressing
fear of prosecution by a government other than the compelling authority fails to reflect the Murdock rule uniformly.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

In 1927 (prior to our decision in Murdock), in a case involving
a request for habeas relief from a deportation order, we
declined to resolve whether "the Fifth Amendment guarantees immunity from self-incrimination under state statutes."
United States ex rel. Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration, 273 U. S. 103, 113 (1927). Although we found that the
witness had waived his claim to the privilege, our decision
might be read to suggest that there was some tension between the reasoning of two of the cases discussed above,
Hale v. Henkel and Brown v. Walker, and the analyses contained in two others, United States v. Saline Bank of Va., 1
Pet. 100 (1828), and Ballmann v. Fagin,200 U. S. 186 (1906).
273 U. S., at 113. These last two cases have in fact been
cited here for the claim that prior to due process incorporation, the privilege could be asserted in a federal proceeding
based on fear of prosecution by a State.6 Saline Bank and
Ballmann are not, however, inconsistent with Murdock.
In Saline Bank, we permitted the defendants to refuse
discovery sought by the United States in federal court,
where the defendants claimed that their responses would result in incrimination under the laws of Virginia. "The rule
clearly is, that a party is not bound to make any discovery
which would expose him to penalties, and this case falls
within it." 1 Pet., at 104. But, for all the sweep of this
statement, the opinion makes no mention of the Fifth
Amendment, and in Hale v. Henkel, we explained that "the
prosecution [in Saline Bank] was under a state law which
imposed the penalty, and.

. .

the Federal court was simply

6The language in Vajtauer that has been cited in support of this suggestion says only that our conclusion that the witness waived his claim of
privilege "mlakes it unnecessary for us to consider the extent to which
the Fifth Amendment guarantees immunity from self-incrimination under
state statutes or whether this case is to be controlled by Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 43; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 608; compare United States
v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186, 195." 273
U. S., at 113.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

administering the state law." 201 U. S., at 69. The state
law, which addresses prosecutions brought by the State, suggested the rule that the Saline Bank Court applied to the
case before it; the law provided that "no disclosure made by
any party defendant to such suit in equity, and no books or
papers exhibited by him in answer to the bill, or under the
order of the Court, shall be used as evidence against him in
any... prosecution under this law," quoted in 1 Pet., at 104.
Saline Bank, then, may have turned on a reading of state
statutory law. Cf. McNaughton, Self-Incrimination Under
Foreign Law, 45 Va. L. Rev. 1299, 1305-1306 (1959) (suggesting that Saline Bank represents "an application not of the
privilege against self-incrimination... but of the principle
that equity will not aid a forfeiture"). But see Ballmann,
supra, at 195 (Holmes, J.) (suggesting that Saline Bank is a
Fifth Amendment case, though this view was soon repudiated by the Court in Hale, as just noted).
Where Saline Bank is laconic, Ballmann is equivocal.
While Ballmann specifically argued only the danger of incriminating himself under state law as his basis for invoking
the privilege in a federal proceeding, and we upheld his claim
of privilege, our opinion indicates that we concluded that
Ballmann might have had a fear of incrimination under federal law as well as under state law. While we did suggest,
contrary to the Murdock rule, that Ballmann might have
been able to invoke the privilege based on a fear of state
prosecution, the opinion says, only that "[o]ne way or the
other [due to the risk of incrimination under federal or state
law] we are of opinion that Ballmann could not be required
to produce his cash book if he set up that it would tend to
criminate him." 200 U. S., at 195-196. At its equivocal
worst, Ballmann reigned for only two months. Hale v.
Henkel explained that "the only danger to be considered is
one arising within the same jurisdiction and under the same
sovereignty," 201 U. S., at 69, and Ballmann and Saline

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

Bank were later, of course, superseded by Murdock with
its unequivocal holding that prosecution in a state jurisdiction not bound by the Clause is beyond the purview of the
privilege.
C
In 1964, our precedent took a turn away from the unqualified proposition that fear of prosecution outside the jurisdiction seeking to compel testimony did not implicate a Fifth or
Fourteenth Amendment privilege, as the case might be. In
Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of N. Y Harbor,378 U. S.
52 (1964), we reconsidered the converse of the situation in
Murdock, whether a witness in a state proceeding who had
been granted immunity from state prosecution could invoke
the privilege based on fear of prosecution on federal charges.
In the course of enquiring into a work stoppage at several
New Jersey piers, the Waterfront Commission of New York
Harbor subpoenaed the defendants, who were given immunity from prosecution under the laws of New Jersey and New
York. When the witnesses persisted in refusing to testify
based on their fear of federal prosecution, they were held in
civil contempt, and the order was affirmed by New Jersey's
highest court. In re Application of the Waterfront Comm'n
of N. Y Harbor,39 N. J. 436, 449, 189 A. 2d 36, 44 (1963).
This Court held the defendants could be forced to testify
not because fear of federal prosecution was irrelevant but
because the Self-Incrimination Clause barred the National
Government from using their state testimony or its fruits to
obtain a federal conviction. We explained that "the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination protects a state
witness against incrimination under federal as well as state
law and a federal witness against incrimination under state
as well as federal law." 378 U. S., at 77-78.
Murphy is a case invested with two alternative rationales.
Under the first, the result reached in Murphy was undoubtedly correct, given the decision rendered that very same day
in Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U.S. 1 (1964), which applied the

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

doctrine of Fourteenth Amendment due process incorporation to the Self-Incrimination Clause, so as to bind the States
as well as the National Government to recognize the privilege. Id., at 8. Prior to Malloy, the Court had refused to
impose the privilege against self-incrimination against the
States through the Fourteenth Amendment, see Twining v.
New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78 (1908), thus leaving state-court witnesses seeking exemption from compulsion to testify to their
rights under state law, as supplemented by the Fourteenth
Amendment's limitations on coerced confessions. Malloy,
however, established that "[t]he Fourteenth Amendment secures against state invasion the same privilege that the Fifth
Amendment guarantees against federal infringement-the
right of a person to remain silent unless he chooses to speak
in the unfettered exercise of his own will, and to suffer no
penalty.., for such silence." 378 U. S., at 8.
As the Court immediately thereafter said in Murphy, Malloy "necessitate[d] a reconsideration" of the unqualified Murdock rule that a witness subject to testimonial compulsion
in one jurisdiction, state or federal, could not plead fear of
prosecution in the other. 378 U. S., at 57. After Malloy,
the Fifth Amendment limitation could no longer be seen as
framed for one jurisdiction alone, each jurisdiction having
instead become subject to the same claim of privilege flowing
from the one limitation. Since fear of prosecution in the one
jurisdiction bound by the Clause now implicated the very
privilege binding upon the other, the Murphy opinion sensibly recognized that if a witness could not assert the privilege
in such circumstances, the witness could be "whipsawed into
incriminating himself under both state and federal law even
though the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination
is applicable to each." 378 U. S., at 55 (internal quotation
marks omitted).7 The whipsawing was possible owing to a
7

Prior to Murphy, such "whipsawing" efforts had been permissible, but
arguably less outrageous since, as the opinion notes, "either the 'compelling' government or the 'using' government [was] a State, and, until today,

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

feature unique to the guarantee against self-incrimination
among the several Fifth Amendment privileges. In the absence of waiver, the other such guarantees are purely and
simply binding on the government. But under the SelfIncrimination Clause, the government has an option to exchange the stated privilege for an immunity to prosecutorial
use of any compelled inculpatory testimony. Kastigar v.
United States, 406 U. S., at 448-449. The only condition on
the government when it decides to offer immunity in place
of the privilege to stay silent is the requirement to provide
an immunity as broad as the privilege itself. Id., at 449.
After Malloy had held the privilege binding on the state
jurisdictions as well as the National Government, it would
therefore have been intolerable to allow a prosecutor in one
or the other jurisdiction to eliminate the privilege by offering immunity less complete than the privilege's dual jurisdictional reach. Murphy accordingly held that a federal court
could not receive testimony compelled by a State in the absence of a statute effectively providing for federal immunity,
and it did this by imposing an exclusionary rule prohibiting
the National Government "from making any such use of compelled testimony and its fruits," 378 U. S., at 79 (footnote
omitted).
This view of Murphy as necessitated by Malloy was
adopted in the subsequent case of Kastigarv. United States,
supra, at 456, n. 42 ("Reconsideration of the rule that the
Fifth Amendment privilege does not protect a witness in one
jurisdiction against being compelled to give testimony that
could be used to convict him in another jurisdiction was
made necessary by the decision in Malloy v. Hogan"). Read
this way, Murphy rests upon the same understanding of the
Self-Incrimination Clause that Murdock recognized and to
which the earlier cases had pointed. Although the Clause
serves a variety of interests in one degree or another, see
the States were not deemed fully bound by the privilege against selfincrimination." 378 U. S., at 57, n. 6.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

Part IV, infra, at its heart lies the principle that the courts
of a government from which a witness may reasonably fear
prosecution may not in fairness compel the witness to furnish
testimonial evidence that may be used to prove his guilt.
After Murphy, the immunity option open to the Executive
Branch could be exercised only on the understanding that
the state and federal jurisdictions were as one, with a federally mandated exclusionary rule filling the space between
the limits of state immunity statutes and the scope of the
privilege.8 As so understood, Murphy stands at odds with
Balsys's claim.
There is, however, a competing rationale in Murphy, investing the Clause with a more expansive promise. The
Murphy majority opened the door to this view by rejecting this Court's previous understanding of the English
common-law evidentiary privilege against compelled selfincrimination, which could have informed the Framers' understanding of the Fifth Amendment privilege. See, e. g.,
Murphy, 378 U. S., at 67 (rejecting Murdock's analysis of the
scope of the privilege under English common law). Having
removed what it saw as an unjustified, historically derived
8Of course, the judicial exclusion of compelled testimony functions as
a fail-safe to ensure that compelled testimony is not admitted in a criminal proceeding. The general rule requires a grant of immunity prior to
the compelling of any testimony. We have said that the prediction that
a court in a future criminal prosecution would be obligated to protect
against the evidentiary use of compelled testimony is not enough to satisfy
the privilege against compelled self-incrimination. Pillsbury Co. v. Conboy, 459 U. S. 248, 261 (1983). The suggestion that a witness should rely
on a subsequent motion to suppress rather than a prior grant of immunity
"would [not] afford adequate protection. Without something more, [the
witness] would be compelled to surrender the very protection which the
privilege is designed to guarantee." Maness v. Meyers, 419 U. S. 449,462
(1975) (footnote and internal quotation marks omitted). This general rule
ensures that we do not "let the cat out with no assurance whatever of
putting it back," id., at 463 (internal quotation marks omitted), and leaves
the decision whether to grant immunity to the Executive in accord with
congressional policy, see Pillsbury,supra, at 262.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

limitation on the privilege, the Murphy Court expressed a
comparatively ambitious conceptualization of personal privacy underlying the Clause, one capable of supporting, if not
demanding, the scope of protection that Balsys claims. As
the Court of Appeals recognized, if we take the Murphy
opinion at face value, the expansive rationale can be claimed
quite as legitimately as the Murdock-Malloy-Kastigarunderstanding of Murphy's result, and Balsys's claim accordingly requires us to decide whether Murphy's innovative
side is as sound as its traditional one. We conclude that it
is not.
As support for the view that the Court had previously misunderstood the English rule, Murphy relied, first, on two
preconstitutional English cases, East India Co. v. Campbell,
1 Ves. sen. 246, 27 Eng. Rep. 1010 (Ex. 1749), and Brownsword v. Edwards, 2 Ves. sen. 243, 28 Eng. Rep. 157
(Ch. 1750), for the proposition that a witness in an English
court was permitted to invoke the privilege based on fear of
prosecution in a foreign jurisdiction. See 378 U. S., at 5859. Neither of these cases is on point as holding that proposition, however. In East India Co., a defendant before the
Court of Exchequer, seeking to avoid giving an explanation
for his possession of certain goods, claimed the privilege on
the ground that his testimony might subject him to a fine or
corporal punishment. The Court of Exchequer found that
the defendant would be punishable in Calcutta, then an English Colony, and said it would "not oblige one to discover
that, which, if he answers in the affirmative, will subject him
to the punishment of a crime." 1 Ves. sen., at 247, 27 Eng.
Rep., at 1011. In Brownsword, a defendant before the
Court of Chancery claimed the privilege on the ground that
her testimony could render her liable to prosecution in an
English ecclesiastical court. "The general rule," the court
said, "is that no one is bound to answer so as to subject himself to punishment, whether that punishment arises by the
ecclesiastical law of the land." 2 Ves. sen., at 245, 28 Eng.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

Rep., at 158. Although this statement, like its counterpart
in East India Co., is unqualified, neither case is authority
.for the proposition that fear of prosecution in foreign courts
implicates the privilege. For in each of these cases, the judicial system to which the witness's fears related was subject
to the same legislative sovereignty that had created the
courts in which the privilege was claimed. 9 In fact, when
these cases were decided, and for years after adoption of the
Fifth Amendment, English authority was silent on whether
fear of prosecution by a foreign nation implicated the privilege, and the Vice-Chancellor so stated in 1851. See King
of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 831, 61 Eng.
Rep. 116, 128 (Ch. 1851) (observing, in the course of an opinion that clearly involved a claim of privilege based on the
fear of prosecution by another sovereign, that there is an
"absence of all authority on the point").
Murphy, in fact, went on to discuss the case last cited, as
well as a subsequent one. The Murphy majority began by
acknowledging that King of the Two Sicilies was not authority for attacking this Court's prior view of English law. 378
U. S., at 60. In an opinion by Lord Cranworth, the Court of
Chancery declined to allow defendants to assert the privilege
9Further, the courts of both jurisdictions, at least in some cases, recognized the privilege against self-incrimination. East India Co. makes specific reference to the fact that the witness's testimony might be incriminating under the laws of Calcutta. 1 Ves. sen., at 247, 27 Eng. Rep., at 1011
("[T]hat he is punishable appears from the case of Omichund v. Barker
[I Atk. 21, 26 Eng. Rep. 15 (1744)], as a jurisdiction is erected in Calcutta
for criminal facts"). As of 1726, Calcutta was a "presidency town," which
was subject to the civil jurisdiction of a 'mayor's court." The mayor's
court followed the English Rules of Evidence, which would have included
the rule against self-incrimination. 1 Woodroffe & Ameer Al's Law of
Evidence in India 13 (P. Ramaswai & S. Rajagopalan eds., 11th ed. 1962).
The ecclesiastical courts of England also recognized something akin to the
privilege at this time in some cases. See Helmholz, Origins of the Privilege Against Self-Incrimination: The Role of the European lus Commune,
65 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 962, 969-974 (1990) (citing cases heard in ecclesiastical
courts in which the privilege was recognized).

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

based on their fear of prosecution in Sicily, for two reasons.
1 Sim. (N. S.), at 329, 61 Eng. Rep., at 128. The first was
the court's belief that the privilege speaks only to matters
that might be criminal under the laws of England: "The rule
relied on by the Defendants, is one which exists merely by
virtue of our own municipal law, and must, I think, have reference, exclusively, to matters penal by that law: to matters
as to which, if disclosed, the Judge would be able to say,
as matter of law, whether it could or could not entail penal
consequences." For the second, the court relied on the unlikelihood that the defendants would ever leave England and
be subject to Sicilian prosecution.
The Murphy majority nonetheless understood this rule to
have been undermined by the subsequent case of United
States of America v. McRae, 3 L. R. Ch. 79 (1867). See 378
U. S., at 61. In that suit brought by the United States
against McRae in England to recover funds that he had collected there as a Confederate agent during the Civil War,
the court recognized the privilege based on McRae's claim
that his testimony would incriminate him in the United
States. The court distinguished the litigation then before it
from King of the Two Sicilies, indicating that though it
agreed with the general principles stated by Lord Cranworth, see 3 L. R. Ch., at 84, he had not needed to lay down
the broad proposition that invocation of the privilege was
appropriate only with regard to matters penal under England's own law, see id., at 85. The court did not say that
the privilege could be invoked in any case involving fear of
prosecution under foreign law, however. Instead it noted
two distinctions from King of the Two Sicilies, the first being
that the "presumed ignorance of the Judge as to foreign law"
on which King of the Two Sicilies rested has been "completely removed by the admitted statements upon the pleadings," 3 L. R. Ch., at 85; the second being that McRae presented the unusual circumstance that the party seeking to
compel the testimony, the United States, was also the party

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

that would prosecute any crime under its laws that might
thereby be revealed, id., at 87. The court's holding that the
privilege could be invoked in such circumstances does not,
however, support a general application of the privilege in
any case in which a witness fears prosecution under foreign
law by a party not before the court. Thus, Murphy went
too far in saying that McRae overruled King of the Two Sici0 See Murphy, 378 U. S., at 71. What is of more finlies."
damental importance, however, is that even if McRae had
announced a new development in English law going to the
heart of King of the Two Sicilies, it would have been irrelevant to Fifth Amendment interpretation. The presumed
influence of English law on the intentions of the Framers
hardly invests the Framers with clairvoyance, and subsequent English developments are not attributable to the
Framers by some rule of renvoi. Cf. Brown, 161 U. S., at
600 (citing Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 280 (1831)).
Since McRae neither stated nor implied any disagreement
with Lord Cranworth's 1857 statement in King of the Two
Sicilies that there was no clear prior authority on the
question, the Murphy Court had no authority showing that
Murdock rested on unsound historical assumptions contradicted by opinions of the English courts.
10

Murphy also cites Heriz v. Riera,11 Sim. 318, 59 Eng. Rep. 896 (1840),
as support for the claim that the English rule allowed invocation of the
privilege based on fear of prosecution abroad. See 378 U. S., at 63. In
that case two Spanish women brought suit in England alleging that the
defendant had violated a contract that he entered into with their brother
and to which they were entitled to the proceeds as his heirs. The contract
provided that the plaintiffs' brother (and they as his heirs) were entitled
to a share of the proceeds from a mercantile contract with the Spanish
Government. The defendant responded that the contract was illegal
under the laws of Spain and hence unenforceable and resisted discovery
because his answers might incriminate him under the Spanish code. The
court accepted the defendants plea, though it is unclear whether the court
ruled on the merits of the plaintiffs' claim or the self-incrimination issue.
See Grant, Federalism and Self-Incrimination, 5 UCLA L. Rev. 1, 2 (1958).

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

In sum, to the extent that the Murphy majority went

beyond its response to Malloy and undercut Murdock's rationale on historical grounds, its reasoning cannot be accepted now. Long before today, indeed, Murphy's history
was shown to be fatally flawed."
11
Murphy, 378 U. S., at 81, n. 1 (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment)
("The English rule is not clear"); United States v. (Under Seal), 794 F.
2d, at 927 ("The Court's scholarship with respect to English law in this
regard has been attacked, see Note, 69 Va. L. Rev. at 893-94 .... We do
not enter the dispute as to whether Murphy represents a correct statement of the English rule at a particular time because we do not think
that the Murphy holding depended upon the correctness of the Courts
understanding of the state of English law and reliance thereon as the sole
basis for decision. Rather, Murphy proceeds as a logical consequence to
the holding in Malloy v. Hogan. . ."); Note, Fifth Amendment Privilege
Against Self-Incrimination and Fear of Foreign Prosecution, 96 Colum.
L. Rev. 1940, 1944-1946, 1949, and nn. 79-81 (1996) ("The uncertainty of
English law on [the question whether the privilege can be invoked based
on fear of prosecution] casts doubt on the Supreme Court's holding in Murphy, which was based on the assertion that McRae 'represents the settled
'English rule" regarding self-incrimination under foreign law.' Indeed,
the Murphy Court's reliance on its idea of the 'true' English rule has been
criticized by commentators, and its reading of British law was essentially
overruled by the British Parliament. Murphy's reliance on mistaken
interpretation and application of English law weakens its precedential
value" (footnotes omitted)); Note, The Reach of the Fifth Amendment
Privilege When Domestically Compelled Testimony May Be Used in a
Foreign Country's Court, 69 Va. L. Rev. 875, 893-895 (1983) ("[Tlhe English rule argument has three fatal flaws. First, the so-called English rule,
decided in 1867, never was the English rule despite overstatements by
several American commentators and the Murphy Court. British commentators remained uncertain for nearly a century about the extent to
which, if at all, their privilege protected against foreign incrimination ....
Second, the English courts had not decided a case involving incrimination
under the criminal laws of independent foreign sovereigns by the time our
Constitution was framed. The only English cases involving independent
sovereigns were decided more than sixty years later. Thus, even if the
fifth amendment embodied the English common law at the time it was
framed, the privilege did not incorporate any rule concerning foreign incrimination. Finally, even if the English rule protected against foreign
incrimination, the Supreme Court in Zicarelti indicated that it had not

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

D
Although the Court and JUSTICE BREYER's dissent differ
on details, including some considerations of policy addressed
in Part IV, infra, our basic disagreement with that dissent
turns on three points. First, we start with what we think
is the most probable reading of the Clause in its Fifth
Amendment context, as limiting its principle to concern with
prosecution by a sovereign that is itself bound by the Clause;
the dissent instead emphasizes the Clause's facial breadth as
consistent with a broader principle. Second, we rely on the
force of our precedent, notably Murdock, as confirming this
same-sovereign principle, as adapted to reflect the postMalloy requirement of immunity effective against both sovereigns subject to the one privilege under the National Constitution; the dissent attributes less force to Murdock, giving
weight to its tension with the Saline Bank language, among
other things. Third, we reject Murphy's restatement of the
common-law background and read none of the common-law
cases as authority inconsistent with our contextual reading
of the Clause, later confirmed by precedent such as Murdock;
the dissent finds support in the common-law cases for Murphy's historical reexamination and the broader reading of the
Clause. In the end, our contextual reading of the Clause,
combined with the Murdock holding, places a burden on anyformally adopted the rule in Murphy" (footnotes omitted)); Capra, The
Fifth Amendment and the Risk of Foreign Prosecution, N. Y. L. J., Mar.
8, 1991, p. 3 ("[Dlespite Justice Goldberg's assertions in Murphy, it is clear
that there was never a 'true' or uniform English rule.... [To the extent
that the English rule would be pertinent to the Fifth Amendment privilege, it would have had to exist at the time the Fifth Amendment was
adopted. Yet, as even Justice Goldberg admitted in Murphy, the English
cases involving independent sovereigns were decided more than 60 years
after the Fifth Amendment was adopted"); see also Law Reform Committee, Sixteenth Report, 1967, Cmnd. 3472, 11, p. 7 (explaining that English
common law on the question is not "wholly consistent").
Murphy's reexamination of history also adopted the illegitimate reading
of Saline Bank, rejected supra, at 678-679.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

one who contests the basic same-sovereign principle, a burden that only clear, contrary, preframing common law might
carry; since the dissent starts with a broader reading of the
Clause and a less potent view of Murdock, it does not require
Murphy and the common-law cases to satisfy such a burden
before definitively finding that a more expansive principle
underlies the Clause.
IV
There remains, at least on the face of the Murphy majority's opinion, a further invitation to revise the principle of
the Clause from what Murdock recognized. The Murphy
majority opens its discussion with a catalog of "Policies of
the Privilege," 378 U. S., at 55 (citations and internal quotation marks omitted):
"It reflects many of our fundamental values and most
noble aspirations: our unwillingness to subject those
suspected of crime to the cruel trilemma of selfaccusation, perjury or contempt; our preference for an
accusatorial rather than an inquisitorial system of criminal justice; our fear that self-incriminating statements
will be elicited by inhumane treatment and abuses; our
sense of fair play which dictates a fair state-individual
balance by requiring the government to leave the individual alone until good cause is shown for disturbing him
and by requiring the government in its contest with the
individual to shoulder the entire load; our respect for the
inviolability of the human personality and of the right of
each individual to a private enclave where he may lead
a private life, our distrust of self-deprecatory statements; and our realization that the privilege, while
sometimes a shelter to the guilty, is often a protection
to the innocent."
Some of the policies listed would seem to point no further
than domestic arrangements and so raise no basis for any
privilege looking beyond fear of domestic prosecution. Oth-

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

ers, however, might suggest a concern broad enough to encompass foreign prosecutions and accordingly to support a
more expansive theory of the privilege than the Murdock
understanding would allow.
The adoption of any such revised theory would, however,
necessarily rest on Murphy's reading of preconstitutional
common-law cases as support for (or at least as opening the
door to) the expansive view of the Framers' intent, which
we and the commentators since Murphy have found to be
unsupported. Once the Murphy majority's treatment of the
English cases is rejected as an indication of the meaning intended for the Clause, Murdock must be seen as precedent
at odds with Balsys's claim. That precedent aside, however,
we think there would be sound reasons to stop short of resting an expansion of the Clause's scope on the highly general
statements of policy expressed in the foregoing quotation
from Murphy. While its list does indeed catalog aspirations
furthered by the Clause, its discussion does not even purport
to weigh the host of competing policy concerns that would be
raised in a legitimate reconsideration of the Clause's scope.
A
The most general of Murphy's policy items ostensibly suggesting protection as comprehensive as that sought by
Balsys is listed in the opinion as "the inviolability of the
human personality and.., the right of each individual to a
private enclave where he may lead a private life." 378 U. S.,
at 55 (internal quotation marks omitted). Whatever else
those terms might cover, protection of personal inviolability
and the privacy of a testimonial enclave would necessarily
seem to include protection against the Government's very
intrusion through involuntary interrogation. 2 If in fact
12 We are assuming, arguendo, that the intrusion is a subject of the
Clause's protection. See Murphy, 378 U. S., at 57, n. 6; Gecas, 120 F. 3d,
at 1462 (Birch, J., dissenting); cf. United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez, 494
U. S. 259, 264 (1990) ("The privilege against self-incrimination guaranteed

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

these values were reliable guides to the actual scope of protection under the Clause, they would be seen to demand a
very high degree of protection indeed: "inviolability" is, after
all, an uncompromising term, and we know as well from
Fourth Amendment law as from a layman's common sense
that breaches of privacy are complete at the moment of illicit
intrusion, whatever use may or may not later be made of
their fruits. See United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez, 494
U. S. 259, 264 (1990) (citing United States v. Calandra,414
U. S. 338, 354 (1974); United States v. Leon, 468 U. S. 897,
906 (1984)).
The Fifth Amendment tradition, however, offers no such
degree of protection. If the Government is ready to provide
the requisite use and derivative use immunity, see Kastigar,
406 U. S., at 453; see also Leflowitz v. Turley, 414 U. S.70,
84 (1973), the protection goes no further: no violation of personality is recognized and no claim of privilege will avail. 18
One might reply that the choice of the word "inviolability"
was just unfortunate; while testimonial integrity may not be
inviolable, it is sufficiently served by requiring the Government to pay a price in the form of use (and derivative use)
immunity before a refusal to testify will be overruled. But
that answer overlooks the fact that when a witness's response will raise no fear of criminal penalty, there is no protection for testimonial privacy at all. See United States v.
Ward, 448 U. S. 242, 248-255 (1980).
Thus, what we find in practice is not the protection of personal testimonial inviolability, but a conditional protection of
testimonial privacy subject to basic limits recognized before
by the Fifth Amendment is a fundamental trial right of criminal defendants. Although conduct by law enforcement officials prior to trial may
ultimately impair that right, a constitutional violation occurs only at trial"

(citation omitted)).
18The practice of exchanging silence for immunity is unchallenged here
and presumably invulnerable, being apparently as old as the Fifth Amendment itself. See Kastigar,406 U. S., at 445, and n. 13.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

the framing' 4 and refined through immunity doctrine in the
intervening years. Since the Judiciary could not recognize
fear of foreign prosecution and at the same time preserve
the Government's existing rights to seek testimony in exchange for immunity (because domestic courts could not
enforce the immunity abroad), it follows that extending protection as Balsys requests would change the balance of private and governmental interests that has seemingly been
accepted for as long as there has been Fifth Amendment
doctrine. The upshot is that accepting personal testimonial integrity or privacy as a prima facie justification for
the development Balsys seeks would threaten a significant
change in the scope of traditional domestic protection; to the
extent, on the other hand, that the domestic tradition is
thought worthy of preservation, an appeal to a general personal testimonial integrity or privacy is not helpful. See
Doe v. United States, 487 U. S. 201, 213, n. 11 (1988) (finding
no violation of the privilege "[diespite the impact upon the
inviolability of the human personality"); Schmerber v. California, 384 U. S. 757, 762 (1966) (holding that a witness cannot rely on the privilege to decline to provide blood samples);
ibid. ("[T]he privilege has never been given the full scope
which the values that it helps to protect suggest").
B
Murphy's policy catalog would provide support, at a rather
more concrete level, for Balsys's argument that application
of the privilege in situations like his would promote the purpose of preventing government overreaching, which on anyone's view lies at the core of the Clause's purposes. This
argument begins with the premise that "cooperative internationalism" creates new incentives for the Government to
facilitate foreign criminal prosecutions. Because crime, like
legitimate trade, is increasingly international, a correspond14See

n. 13, supra.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

ing degree of international cooperation is coming to characterize the enterprise of criminal prosecution. 15 The mission
of the OSI as shown in this case exemplifies the international
cooperation that is said to undermine the legitimacy of treating separate governmental authorities as separate for purposes of liberty protection in domestic courts. Because the
Government now has a significant interest in seeing individuals convicted abroad for their crimes, it is subject to the same
incentive to overreach that has required application of the
privilege in the domestic context. Balsys says that this argument is nothing more than the reasoning of the Murphy
Court when it justified its recognition of a fear of state prosecution by looking to the significance of "'cooperative federalism,"' the teamwork of state and national officials to fight
interstate crime. 378 U. S., at 55-56.
But Balsys invests Murphy's "cooperative federalism"
with a significance unsupported by that opinion. We have
already pointed out that Murphy's expansion upon Murdock
is not supported by Murphy's unsound historical reexamination, but must rest on Murphy's other rationale, under which
its holding is a consequence of Malloy. That latter reading
is essential to an understanding of "cooperative federalism."
For the Murphy majority, "cooperative federalism" was not
important standing alone, but simply because it underscored
the significance of the Court's holding that after Malloy it
would be unjustifiably formalistic for a federal court to ignore fear of state prosecution when ruling on a privilege
claim. Thus, the Court described the "whipsaw" effect that
the decision in Malloy would have created if fear of state
prosecution were not cognizable in a federal proceeding:
"[The] policies and purposes [of the privilege] are
defeated when a witness can be whipsawed into incriminating himself under both state and federal law
1'The Court of Appeals cited a considerable number of studies in the
growing literature on the subject. 119 F. 3d 122, 130-131 (CA2 1997).

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)

Opinion of the Court

even though the constitutional privilege against selfincrimination is applicable to each. This has become
especially true in our age of 'cooperative federalism,'
where the Federal and State Governments are waging
a united front against many types of criminal activity."
378 U. S., at 55-56 (citation and internal quotation
marks omitted).
Since in this case there is no analog of Malloy, imposing
the Fifth Amendment beyond the National Government,
there is no premise in Murphy for appealing to "cooperative16
internationalism" by analogy to "cooperative federalism."'
Any analogy must, instead, be to the pre-Murphy era when
the States were not bound by the privilege. Then, testimony compelled in a federal proceeding was admissible in a
state prosecution, despite the fact that shared values and
similar criminal statutes of the state and national jurisdictions presumably furnished incentive for overreaching by the
Government to facilitate criminal prosecutions in the States.
But even if Murphy were authority for considering "cooperative federalism" and "cooperative internationalism" as
reasons supporting expansion of the scope of the privilege,
16 There is indeed nothing comparable to the Fifth Amendment privilege in any supranational prohibition against compelled self-incrimination
derived from any source, the privilege being "at best an emerging principle of international law." See Amann, A Whipsaw Cuts Both Ways,
45 UCLA L. Rev. 1201, 1259 (1998) (hereinafter Amann).
In the course of discussing the Eleventh Circuit case raising the same
issue as this one, Amann suggests nonetheless that the whipsaw rationale
has particular salience on these facts because along with the United
States, Lithuania and Israel are signatories to the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, Dec. 16, 1966, G. A. Res. 2200, which recognizes something akin to the privilege. See Amann 1233, n. 206. The
significance of being bound by the Covenant, however, is limited by its
provision that the privilege is derogable and accordingly may be infringed
if public emergency necessitates. Id., at 1259, n. 854. In any event,
Balsys has made no claim under the Covenant, and its current enforceability in the courts of the signatories is an issue that is not before us.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
Opinion of the Court

any extension would depend ultimately on an analysis of the
likely costs and benefits of extending the privilege as Balsys
requests. If such analysis were dispositive for us, we would
conclude that Balsys has not shown that extension of the
protection would produce a benefit justifying the rule he
seeks.
The Court of Appeals directed careful attention to an evaluation of what would be gained and lost on Balsys's view.
It concluded, for example, that few domestic cases would be
adversely affected by recognizing the privilege based upon
fear of foreign prosecution, 119 F. 3d, at 135-137;17 that
American contempt sanctions for refusal to testify are so lenient in comparison to the likely consequences of foreign
prosecution that a witness would probably refuse to testify
even if the privilege were unavailable to him, id., at 142
(Block, J., concurring); that by statute and treaty the United
States could limit the occasions on which a reasonable fear
of foreign prosecution could be shown, as by modifying extradition and deportation standards in cases involving the
privilege, id., at 138-139; and that because a witness's refusal
to testify may be used as evidence in a civil proceeding, deportation of people in Balsys's position would not necessarily
be thwarted by recognizing the privilege as he claims it, id.,
at 136.
The Court of Appeals accordingly thought the net burden
of the expanded privilege too negligible to justify denying
its expansion. We remain skeptical, however. While we
will not attempt to comment on every element of the Court
of Appeals's calculation, two of the points just noted would
present difficulty. First, there is a question about the standard that should govern any decision to justify a truly discretionary ruling by making the assumption that it will induce
the Government to adopt legislation with international implications or to seek international agreements, in order to
17 The assessment was, of course, necessarily based on experience under
the same-sovereign view of the privilege.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

mitigate the burdens that the ruling would otherwise impose. Because foreign relations are specifically committed
by the Constitution to the political branches, Art. II, § 2, cl. 2,
we would not make a discretionary judgment premised on
inducing them to adopt policies in relation to other nations
without squarely confronting the propriety of grounding
judicial action on such a premise.
Second, the very assumption that a witness's silence may
be used against him in a deportation or extradition proceeding due to its civil nature, 119 F. 3d, at 136 (citing LopezMendoza, 468 U. S., at 1038-1039), raises serious questions
about the likely gain from recognizing fear of foreign prosecution. For if a witness claiming the privilege ended up in
a foreign jurisdiction that, for whatever reason, recognized
no privilege under its criminal law, the recognition of the
privilege in the American courts would have gained nothing
for the witness. This possibility, of course, presents a sharp
contrast with the consequences of recognizing the privilege
based on fear of domestic prosecution. If testimony is compelled, Murphy itself illustrates that domestic courts are not
even wholly dependent on immunity statutes to see that no
use will be made against the witness; the exclusionary principle will guarantee that. See Murphy, 378 U. S., at 79.
Whatever the cost to the Government may be, the benefit to
the individual is not in doubt in a domestic proceeding.
Since the likely gain to the witness fearing foreign prosecution is thus uncertain, the countervailing uncertainty
about the loss of testimony to the United States cannot be
dismissed as comparatively unimportant. That some testimony will be lost is highly probable, since the United States
will not be able to guarantee immunity if testimony is
compelled (absent some sort of cooperative international
arrangement that we cannot assume will occur). While the
Court of Appeals is doubtless correct that the expected consequences of some foreign prosecutions may be so severe
that a witness will refuse to testify no matter what, not

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

Opinion of the Court

every foreign prosecution may measure up so harshly as
against the expectable domestic consequences of contempt
for refusing to testify. We therefore must suppose that on
Balsys's view some evidence will in fact be lost to the domestic courts, and we are accordingly unable to dismiss the position of the United States in this case, that domestic law
enforcement would suffer serious consequences if fear of
foreign prosecution were recognized as sufficient to invoke
the privilege.
In sum, the most we would feel able to conclude about the
net result of the benefits and burdens that would follow from
Balsys's view would be a Scotch verdict. If, then, precedent
for the traditional view of the scope of the Clause were not
dispositive of the issue before us, if extending the scope of
the privilege were open to consideration, we still would not
find that Balsys had shown that recognizing his claim would
be a sound resolution of the competing interests involved.
V
This is not to say that cooperative conduct between the
United States and foreign nations could not develop to a
point at which a claim could be made for recognizing fear of
foreign prosecution under the Self-Incrimination Clause as
traditionally understood. If it could be said that the United
States and its allies had enacted substantially similar criminal codes aimed at prosecuting offenses of international character, and if it could be shown that the United States was
granting immunity from domestic prosecution for the purpose of obtaining evidence to be delivered to other nations
as prosecutors of a crime common to both countries, then an
argument could be made that the Fifth Amendment should
apply based on fear of foreign prosecution simply because
that prosecution was not fairly characterized as distinctly
"foreign." The point would be that the prosecution was as
much on behalf of the United States as of the prosecuting
nation, so that the division of labor between evidence gath-

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

erer and prosecutor made one nation the agent of the other,
rendering fear of foreign prosecution tantamount to fear of
a criminal case brought by the Government itself.
Whether such an argument should be sustained may be
left at the least for another day, since its premises do not fit
this case. It is true that Balsys has shown that the United
States has assumed an interest in foreign prosecution, as
demonstrated by OSrs mandate' 8 and American treaty
9 requiring the Government to give to Lithuania
agreements 1
and Israel any evidence provided by Balsys. But this interest does not rise to the level of cooperative prosecution.
There is no system of complementary substantive offenses
18

According to Order No. 851-79, reprinted in App. 15-17, the OSI shall
"[mlaintain liaison with foreign prosecution, investigation and intelligence
offices; [u]se appropriate Government agency resources and personnel for
investigations, guidance, information, and analysis; and [d]irect and coordinate the investigation, prosecution, and any other legal actions instituted
in these cases with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Attorneys Offices, and
other relevant Federal agencies."
19The United States and Lithuania have entered into an agreement that
provides that the two governments "agree to cooperate in prosecution of
persons who are alleged to have committed war crimes... agree to provide mutual legal assistance concerning the prosecution of persons suspected of having committed war crimes... will assist each other in the
location of witnesses believed to possess relevant information about criminal actions . .. during World War II, and agree to intermediate and
endeavor to make these witnesses available for the purpose of giving
testimony in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Lithuania to
authorized representatives of the United States Department of Justice."
Memorandum of Understanding Between the United States Department
of Justice and the Office of the Procurator General of the Republic of Lithuania Concerning Cooperation in the Pursuit of War Criminals, Aug. 8,
1992, reprinted in App. in No. 96-6144 (CA2), pp. 396-397.
The District Court found that though it had not been made aware of a
treaty between the United States and Israel requiring disclosure of information related to war crimes, OSI had shared such information in the past
and that it would be consistent with OSIs mandate from the Attorney
General for OSI to do so again. 918 F. Supp. 588, 596 (EDNY 1996).

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
STEVENS, J., concurring

at issue here, and the mere support of one nation for the
prosecutorial efforts of another does not transform the
prosecution of the one into the prosecution of the other. Cf
Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U. S. 121, 122-124 (1959) (rejecting
double jeopardy claim where federal officials turned over all
evidence they had gathered in connection with federal prosecution of defendant for use in subsequent state prosecution
of defendant). In this case there is no basis for concluding
that the privilege will lose its meaning without a rule precluding compelled testimony when there is a real and substantial risk that such testimony will be used in a criminal
prosecution abroad.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

concurring.

While I join the Court's opinion without reservation, I
write separately to emphasize these points.
The Clause that protects every person from being "compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself"
is a part of the broader protection afforded by the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution. That Amendment constrains the power of the Federal Government to deprive any
person "of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law," just as the Fourteenth Amendment imposes comparable constraints on the power of the States. The primary
office of the Clause at issue in this case is to afford protection
to persons whose liberty has been placed in jeopardy in an
American tribunal. The Court's holding today will not have
any adverse impact on the fairness of American criminal
trials.
The fact that the issue in this case has been undecided for
such a long period of time suggests that our ruling will have

-

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

little, if any, impact on the fairness of trials conducted in
other countries. Whether or not that suggestion is accurate, I do not believe our Bill of Rights was intended to have
any effect on the conduct of foreign proceedings. If, however, we were to accept respondent's interpretation of the
Clause, we would confer power on foreign governments to
impair the administration of justice in this country. A law
enacted by a foreign power making it a crime for one of its
citizens to testify in an American proceeding against another
citizen of that country would immunize those citizens from
being compelled to testify in our courts. Variants of such a
hypothetical law are already in existence. See Soci6tj Nationale Industrietle A6rospatiale v. United States Dist.
Court for Southern Dist. of Iowa, 482 U. S. 522, 526, n. 6
(1987); see also id., at 544-545, n. 29. Of course, the Court
might craft exceptions for such foreign criminal laws, but it
seems far wiser to adhere to a clear limitation on the coverage of the Fifth Amendment, including its privilege against
self-incrimination. That Amendment prescribes rules of
conduct that must attend any deprivation of life, liberty, or
property in our Nation's courts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG,

dissenting.

The privilege against self-incrimination, "closely linked
historically with the abolition of torture," is properly regarded as a "landmar[k] in man's struggle to make himself
civilized." E. Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today 7
(1955); see id., at 8 (Fifth Amendment expresses "one of the
fundamental decencies in the relation we have developed
between government and man"). In my view, the Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-inc-imination prescribes a
rule of conduct generally to be followed by our Nation's officialdom. It counsels officers of the United States (and of
any State of the United States) against extracting testimony
when the person examined reasonably fears that his words
would be used against him in a later criminal prosecution.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

As a restraint on compelling a person to bear witness against
himself, the Amendment ordinarily should command the
respect of United States interrogators, whether the prosecution reasonably feared by the examinee is domestic or
foreign. Cf DKT Memorial Fund Ltd. v. Agency for
InternationalDevelopment, 887 F. 2d 275, 307-308 (CADC
1989) (R. B. Ginsburg, J., concurring in part and dissenting
in part) ("just as our flag carries its message ... both at
home and abroad, so does our Constitution and the values it
expresses") (citation and internal quotation marks omitted);
United States v. Tiede, 86 F. R. D. 227 (U. S. Court for Berlin
1979) (foreign national accused of hijacking Polish aircraft
abroad was tried under German substantive law in Berlin in
a court created by United States; U. S. court held foreign
national entitled to jury trial as a matter of constitutional
right). On this understanding of the "fundamental decence[y]" the Fifth Amendment embodies, "its expression of
our view of civilized governmental conduct," Griswold,
supra, at 8, 9, I join JUSTICE BREYER'S dissenting opinion.
JUSTICE BREYER,

with whom JUSTICE GINSBURG joins,

dissenting.
Were Aloyzas Balsys to face even a theoretical possibility
that his testimony could lead a State to prosecute him for
murder, the Fifth Amendment would prohibit the Federal
Government from compelling that testimony. The Court
concludes, however, that the Fifth Amendment does not prohibit compulsion here because Balsys faces a real and substantial danger of prosecution not, say, by California, but by
a foreign nation. The Fifth Amendment, however, provides
that "[n]o person.., shall be compelled in any criminal case
to be a witness against himself." U. S. Const., Amdt. 5 (emphasis added). This Court has not read the words "any
criminal case" to limit application of the Clause to only federal criminal cases. See Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of
N. Y Harbor,378 U. S. 52 (1964). That precedent, as well

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

as the basic principles underlying the privilege, convince
me that the Fifth Amendment's privilege against selfincrimination should encompass not only feared domestic
prosecutions, but also feared foreign prosecutions where the
danger of an actual foreign prosecution is substantial.
I
I begin with a point that focuses upon precedent setting
forth the current understanding of the scope of the word
"any," and that reveals the basic difference between the majority's view of the privilege and the view this Court has
previously taken and should continue to take. The majority
focuses upon one case, Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of
N. Y Harbor,supra,which itself discusses much historically
relevant precedent. And the majority's focus upon that one
case is appropriate.
Murphy holds that "the constitutional privilege against
self-incrimination protects ... a federal witness against incrimination under state.., law." Id., at 77-78. As I read
Murphy, the Court thought this conclusion flowed naturally
from its basic understanding of the scope of the Fifth
Amendment privilege. On that understanding, the privilege prohibits federal courts (and state courts through the
Fourteenth Amendment) from compelling a witness to furnish testimonial evidence that may be used to prove his guilt
if that witness may reasonablyfear criminalprosecution.
See id., at 60-63 (discussing the English cases, King of Two
Sicilies v. Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 61 Eng. Rep. 116
(Ch. 1851), and United States of America v. McRae, 3 L. R.
Ch. 79 (1867), as ones. that, if rightly understood, embody
that proposition of law).
The privilege, understood in this way, requires the abolition of any "same sovereign" rule. It is often reasonable for
a federal witness to fear state prosecution, and vice versa.
Indeed, where testimony may incriminate and immunity has
not been granted, it is so reasonable that one can say, as a

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

matter of law, that the privilege applies, across jurisdictions,
to the entire class of cases involving federal witnesses who
fear state prosecutions and also to the entire class of cases
involving state witnesses who fear federal prosecutions.
See Murphy, supra, at 77-78. Thus, the Fifth Amendment (or the Fourteenth Amendment) automatically prohibits compelled testimony in any such cross-jurisdictional
circumstance.
If I am right about how Murphy should be understood,
then that case directs the application of the privilege in this
one. That is because the only difference. between Murphy
and this case is that one cannot say, as a matter of law, that
every threat of a foreign prosecution is a reasonable threat.
But where there is such a reasonable threat-where the
threat is "real and substantial," Zicarelli v. New Jersey
Comm'n of Investigation,406 U. S. 472,478 (1972)-the privilege, as Murphy understands it, would apply.
A
The majority says that one can read Murphy as embodying a very different rationale, a rationale that turns upon
considerations of federalism-the need to consider "state and
federal jurisdictions.., as one" for purposes of applying the
privilege. Ante, at 683. It reads Murphy as a case that
sees at the heart of the Clause
"the principle that the courts of a government from
which a witness may reasonably fear prosecution may
not in fairness compel the witness to furnish testimonial
evidence that may be used to prove his guilt." Ante, at
683 (emphasis added).
I have underscored the key words "from which." It is these
words that tie the Clause to prosecutions by the same
sovereign.
But what is the evidence that Murphy put any legal
weight at all upon those underscored words? What reason

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

has the majority to believe that Murphy subscribes to, or
depends in any way upon, this phrasing of the privilege's
"principle" rather than upon the critically different "principle" I suggested above, i. e., the principle that "courts may
not in fairness compel a witness who reasonably fears prosecution to furnish testimony that may be used to prove his
guilt?"
The majority points to two relevant Murphy statements.
In the first, Murphy said that Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1
(1964), which incorporated the Fifth Amendment privilege
as part of the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause,
"necessitates a reconsideration" of United States v. Murdock,
284 U. S. 141 (1931), which had held that the Fifth Amendment protected an individual only from prosecutions by the
Federal Government. Murphy, 378 U. S., at 57. In the
second, Murphy mentioned, as one of many items of support
for its analysis, that most Fifth Amendment policies are
defeated
"when a witness 'can be whipsawed into incriminating
himself under both state and federal law even though'
the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination
is applicable to each." Id., at 55 (quoting Knapp
v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371, 385 (1958) (Black, J.,
dissenting)).
Since the first statement mentions only a reason for reconsidering Murdock, since the second offers support on either
analysis, and since neither refers to any "alternative rational[el" for decision, ante, at 680, the majority's evidence for
its reinterpretation of Murphy seems rather skimpy.
Now consider the reasons for believing that Murphy rests
upon a different rationale-a rationale that, by focusing upon
the basic nature and history of the underlying right, rejects
Murdock's "same sovereign" rule. First, Murphy holds that
the "constitutional privilege" itself, not that privilege together with principles of federalism, "protects ...a federal

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

witness against incrimination under state ... law." Murphy, supra, at 78. Second, it says explicitly that it "reject[s]" the Murdock rule, not because of considerations of
federalism arising out of Malloy, but because it is "unsupported by history or policy" and represents a "deviation"
from a "correct... construction" of the privilege in light of
its "history, policies and purposes." Murphy, supra, at 77.
Third, about half of the opinion consists of an effort to demonstrate that the privilege, as understood by the English
courts and by American courts prior to Murdock, protected
individuals from compelled testimony in the face of a realistic
threat of prosecution by any sovereign, not simply by the
same sovereign that compelled the testimony. See Murphy,
378 U. S., at 58-70. Fourth, the rest of the Court's analysis
consists of a discussion of the purposes of the privilege,
which, in the Court's view, lead to a similar conclusion. See
id., at 55-56. Fifth, the Court explicitly rejects the analysis
of commentators who argued for a "same sovereign" rule on
the ground that their understanding of the privilege's purposes was incomplete. See id., at 56-57, n. 5 (rejecting 8
J. Wigmore, Evidence §2258, p. 345 (McNaughton rev. 1961)).
Sixth, the Court nowhere describes its rationale in "silver
platter" or similar terms that could lead one to conclude that
its rule is prophylactic, enforcement based, or rests upon any
rationale other than that the privilege is not limited to protection against prosecution by the same jurisdiction that
compels the testimony. Cf. 378 U. S., at 80-81 (Harlan, J.,
concurring in judgment).
Consequently, I believe one must read Murphy as standing
for the proposition that the privilege includes protection
against being compelled to testify by the Federal Government where that testimony might be used in a criminal
prosecution conducted by another sovereign. And the question the Court must consequently face is whether we should
reject the rationale of that case when we answer the ques-

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

tion presented here. In other words, we must ask not,
"what did Murphy hold," but "was Murphy right?"
B
Since Murphy is prevailing law, the majority bears the
burden of showing that Murphy is wrong; and the majority
says that Murphy's reasoning is "fatally flawed" and legally
"unsound." Ante, at 687-688. But it is not. Murphy's
reasoning finds in Malloy's holding (that the privilege binds
the States) a need to reexamine the "same sovereign" rule,
first set forth in the earlier case of Murdock. Without reexamination, Murdock's rule would have permitted State
and Federal Governments each to have compelled testimony
for use by the other. Murphy's reasoning then finds the
"same sovereign" rule unsound as a matter of history and of
the basic purposes of the privilege.
Murphy's use of legal history is traditional. It notes that
Murdock rested its own conclusion upon earlier English and
American cases. It reads the language of those cases in
light of the reasons that underlie it. It says that, so read,
those cases did not stand for a "same sovereign" rule, but
suggested the contrary. And it concludes that Murdock's
legal pedigree is suspicious or illegitimate. In a word, Murphy examines Murdock's historical pedigree very much the
way that the majority today analyzes that of Murphy. The
difference, however, is that Murphy makes a better case for
overturning its predecessor than does the majority.
I can reiterate the essence of Murphy's analysis, amending
it to fit the present case, roughly as follows:
1. Murdock thought that English law embodied a
"same sovereign" rule, but it did not. Two early English cases, one decided in 1749 and the other in 1750,
held that the privilege applied even though the feared
prosecution was, in the one case, in Calcutta, and in the
other, by ecclesiastical authorities. East India Co. v.

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS

BREYER, J., dissenting

Campbell, 1 Ves. sen. 246, 27 Eng. Rep. 1010 (Ex. 1749);
Brownsword v. Edwards, 2 Ves. sen. 243, 28 Eng. Rep.
157 (Ch. 1750). Those cases said nothing about whether
or not the law of Calcutta, church law, and English law
all emanate from a single sovereign. But Murdock had
cited a famous later English case, King of Two Sicilies
v. Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 61 Eng. Rep. 116 (Ch.
1851), as standing for the "same sovereign" principle.
It is true that one of the English judges in that case,
Lord Cranworth, said that the privilege involves only
"matters [made] penal by [English]... law." Id., at 329,
61 Eng. Rep., at 128. But Lord Cranworth immediately
qualified that conclusion by restating the conclusion in
terms of its rationale, namely, that the privilege applies
"to matters as to which, if disclosed, the Judge would be
able to say, as matter of law, whether it could or could
not entail penal consequences." Ibid. And, 16 years
later, the English courts sustained a claim of privilege
involving a threatened forfeiture in America. United
States of America v. McRae, 3 L. R. Ch. 79 (1867). In
doing so, the McRae court said both that Lord Cranworth's statement in King of the Two Sicilies "la[id]
down... a proposition" that was "broad[er]" than necessary to "support the judgment," and that the true reason the privilege had not applied in the earlier case was
because the judge did not "know... with certainty...
the [foreign law, hence] whether the acts ... had rendered [the defendants] amenable to punishment" and
"it was doubtful whether the Defendants would ever
be within the reach of a prosecution, and their being so
depended on their voluntary return to [Sicily]." United
States of America v. McRae, supra, at 85, 87.
Thus, the true English rule as of the time of Murdock,
insofar as any of these cases reveal that rule, was not a
"same sovereign" rule, but a rule that the privilege did
not apply to prosecutions by another sovereign where

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

the danger of any such prosecution was speculative or
insubstantial. Cf. Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, 330,
121 Eng. Rep. 730, 738 (Q. B. 1861) ("IT]he danger to
be apprehended must be real and appreciable.., not a
danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character").
Where is Murphy's error?
2. Murdock thought that earlier American cases required a "same sovereign" rule, but they did not. To
the contrary: Chief Justice Marshall, in United States v.
Saline Bank of Va., 1 Pet. 100 (1828), wrote that "a
party is not bound to make any discovery which would
expose him to penalties." Id., at 104. Justice Holmes
later cited this case as authority for the proposition that
the Fifth Amendment privilege "exonerated" a federal
witness "from [making] disclosures which would have
exposed him to the penalties of the state law." Ballmann v. Fagin,200 U. S. 186, 195 (1906). Lower federal
courts, consistent with the English rule, had held that a
witness could refuse to answer questions based on the
danger of incrimination in another jurisdiction. See,
e. g., In re Hess, 134 F. 109, 112 (ED Pa. 1905); In re
Graham, 10 F. Cas. 913, 914 (No. 5,659) (SDNY 1876).
True, the Court had written in dicta that "[w]e think the
legal immunity is in regard to a prosecution in the same
jurisdiction, and when that is fully given it is enough."
Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, 382 (1905). But that unexplained dicta, which a later case linked to a (misunderstood) English rule, see Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43,
68-69 (1906), provides an insufficient historical basis for
Murdock's summary conclusion, particularly since the
Court, immediately prior to Murdock, had indicated that
the question remained open. See United States ex rel.
Vajtauer v. Commissionerof Immigration,273 U. S. 103
(1927) (reserving question; citing Saline Bank and Ballmann v. Fagin).

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER,

J., dissenting

Again, where is Murphy's error?
Stated in this minimal way, Murphy's historical analysis is
difficult to attack. One can, of course, always point to special features of a case and thereby distinguish it. In respect
to the mid-18th-century English cases, one can point out that
Calcutta and the church may not have been completely separate "sovereigns." Ante, at 685. And Saline Bank might
have involved application by the federal court of a state law
that, without the help of the Fifth Amendment, protected a
party from self-incrimination. But see Saline Bank, supra,
at 103 (citing Virginia privilege statute which, by its terms,
applied to suit by the state "Attorney General" in the state
"Superior Court of Chancery for the district of Richmond"
for recovery of a bank's capital stock "in behalf of the Commonwealth"). But this kind of criticism is beside the point.
The English judges made no point of the former. See ante,
at 685 (statements about the privilege in these cases were
"unqualified"). It does not denigrate their learning to suggest that they did not articulate the precise sovereigntyrelated status of ecclesiastical courts or of Calcutta's criminal
law in 1749. Nor did Justice Holmes make any point of the
latter. See Ballmann v. Fagin, supra, at 195. As for the
suggestion that it is illegitimate to consider the later English
authorities in construing the privilege, see ante, at 687, one
would think that, on this view, Murdock is at least as vulnerable as Murphy.
Most importantly, neither the majority today, nor the authorities it cites, see ante, at 688-689, n. 11, .shows that the
key historical points upon which Murphy relied are clearly
wrong. At worst, Murphy represents one possible reading
of a history that is itself unclear. Murphy's main criticisms
of Murdock are reasonable ones. Its reading of earlier
cases, insofar as they were relevant to its criticism of Murdock, was plausible then, see Grant, Federalism and SelfIncrimination, 4 UCLA L. Rev. 549, 562 (1957) (Murdock
"illustrates the danger of copying one's precedents directly

Cite as: 524 U.S. 666 (1998)
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

from the brief of counsel"); and it is plausible now. That
minimalist conclusion is sufficient for present purposes.
Even if Murdock's 3-sentence, and Murphy's 20-page, historical analyses were equally plausible, we would need something more to abandon Murphy, for it is the most recent, and
thereby governing, precedent.
Nor can I find any other reason for rejecting Murphy and,
thereby, resurrecting Murdoek. The Fifth Amendment's
language permits Murphy's construction, for it says "any
criminal case." The history of the Amendment's enactment
simply*does not answer the question about whether or not it
applied where there is a substantial danger of prosecution in
another jurisdiction. See United States v. Gecas, 120 F. 3d
1419, 1435 (CAll 1997) (en bane) (Fifth Amendment privilege "has virtually no legislative history"); Moglen, Taking
the Fifth: Reconsidering the Origins of the Constitutional
Privilege Against Self-Incrimination, 92 Mich. L. Rev. 1086,
1123 (1994) (Fifth Amendment's legislative history "adds little to our understanding of the history of the privilege"). It
is possible that the language, "in any criminal case," was
aimed at limiting protection to compelled testimony against
penal interests, a reading consistent with the Court's contemporary understanding of the Clause. See, e. g., United
States v. Ward, 448 U. S. 242, 248-255 (1980) (rejecting claim
to privilege based on fear of civil penalty, in part, because
Clause "is expressly limited to 'any criminal case"'); 5 The
Founders' Constitution 262 (P. Kurland & R. Lerner eds.
1987) (indicating that phrase "in any criminal case" was proposed by Representative Lawrence to ensure that the Clause
was not "in some degree contrary to laws passed"). And it
is also possible that the language was intended to limit the
proceedings in which the privilege could be claimed to criminal cases, which understanding the Court rejected long ago.
See McCarthy v. Arndstein,266 U. S. 34,40 (1924) (The privilege "applies alike to civil and criminal proceedings, wherever the answer might tend to subject to criminal responsi-

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J., dissenting

bility him who gives it"). Neither of these readings is any
more speculative, as a textual or historical matter, than reading the Clause as the majority does, against its text, to restrict the universe of feared prosecutions upon which basis
the privilege may be asserted.
What is more, there is no suggestion that Murphy's
rule, applied to state and federal prosecutions, "has proven
to be intolerable simply in defying practical workability."
PlannedParenthoodof Southeastern Pa.v. Casey, 505 U. S.
833, 854 (1992) (citing Swift & Co. v. Wickham, 382 U. S. 111,
116 (1965)). Nor have the facts, or related principles of law,
subsequently changed so much "as to have robbed the old
rule of significant application or justification." 505 U. S., at
855 (citing Pattersonv. McLean Credit Union, 491 U. S. 164,
173-174 (1989), and Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285
U. S. 393, 412 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting)). Indeed, it
was the Murdock rule's legitimacy that, prior to Murphy,
consistently divided the Court. See, e. g., Irvine v. California, 347 U. S. 128, 139-142 (1954) (Black, J., joined by Douglas, J., dissenting) ("I cannot agree that the [Fifth] Amendment's guarantee against self-incrimination testimony can be
spirited away by the ingenious contrivance of using federally
extorted confessions to convict of state crimes and vice
versa"); Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S.487, 494-503
(1944) (Black, J., joined by Douglas and Rutledge, JJ.,
dissenting).
The conclusion that I draw is that the rationale established
through Murphy's precedent governs. That rationale interprets the privilege as applicable at the least where a person
faces a substantial threat of prosecution in another jurisdiction. And that reading of the privilege favors Balsys here.
II
Precedent aside, I still disagree with the Court's conclusion. As Murphy said, and as the Second Circuit reiterated,
the Fifth Amendment reflects not one, but several different

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

purposes. 378 U. S., at 55; 119 F. 3d 122, 129 (1997). And
whatever the disagreement about the relative weight to be
given each of those purposes or their historical origins, I
believe that these purposes argue in favor of the Second Circuit's interpretation. Namely, an interpretation that finds
the Fifth Amendment privilege applicable where the threat
of a foreign prosecution is "real and substantial," as it is
here. See United States of America v. McRae, 3 L. R. Ch.,
at 85-87 (distinguishing King of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox,
1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 61 Eng. Rep. 116 (Ch. 1851), on this
ground); cf. Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S., at 330, 121 Eng. Rep.,
at 738.
A
This Court has often found, for example, that the privilege
recognizes the unseemliness, the insult to human dignity,
created when a person must convict himself out of his own
mouth. "At its core, the privilege reflects our fierce 'unwillingness to subject those suspected of crime to the cruel
[choice] of self-accusation, perjury or contempt."' Pennsylvania v. Muniz, 496 U. S. 582, 596 (1990) (quoting Doe v.
United States, 487 U. S. 201, 212 (1988)); South Dakota v.
Neville, 459 U. S. 553, 563 (1983). The privilege can reflect
this value, and help protect against this indignity, even if
other considerations produce only partial protection-protection that can be overcome by other needs. Cf. MacNair, Early Development of the Privilege Against SelfIncrimination, 10 Oxford J. Legal Studies 66, 70 (1990) (early
ecclesiastical procedure recognized privilege until an accusation was made that person had committed an offense); ante,
at 692 (observing that the "protection of personal testimonial
inviolability" is not a "reliable guid[e]" to the "actual scope
of protection under the Clause"). And that value is no less
at stake where a foreign, but not a domestic, prosecution is
at issue.
This Court has also said that the privilege serves to protect personal privacy, by discouraging prosecution for crimes

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER,

J., dissenting

of thought. See Muniz, supra, at 595-596 (describing English Star Chamber "wherein suspects were forced to choose
between revealing incriminating private thoughts and forsaking their oath by committing perjury"); United States v.
Nobles, 422 U. S. 225, 233 (1975) ("The Fifth Amendment
privilege... protects 'a private inner sanctum of individual
feeling and thought and proscribes state intrusion to extract
self-condemnation'" (quoting Couch v. United States, 409
U. S. 322, 327 (1973))). Indeed, some have argued that the
Puritans championed the privilege because, had the 17thcentury state questioned them about their beliefs, they
would have had to answer truthfully and thus suffer condemnation. See L. Levy, Origins of the Fifth Amendment 134
(1968) ("If [a Puritan] took the oath and lied, he committed
the unpardonable and cardinal sin of perjury which was simply not an option for a religious man"). This consideration
may prove less important today domestically, for the First
Amendment protects against the prosecution of thought
crime. But that fact also provides no reason for denying
protection where the prosecution is foreign.
The Court has said that the privilege reflects, too, "our
fear that self-incriminating statements will be elicited by inhumane treatment and abuses." Murphy, 378 U. S., at 55.
This concern with governmental "overreaching" would appear implicated as much when the foreseen prosecution is by
another country as when it is by another domestic jurisdiction. Indeed, the analogy to Murphy's observation about
"cooperative federalism," in which State and Federal Governments wage "a united front against many types of criminal activity," id., at 56, is a powerful one. That is because,
in the 30 years since Murphy, the United States has dramatically increased its level of cooperation with foreign governments to combat crime. See generally E. Nadelman, Cops
Across Borders: The Internationalization of U. S. Criminal
Law Enforcement (1993); Bassiouni, Policy Considerations
on Inter-State Cooperation in Criminal Matters, 4 Pace Y. B.

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

Int'l L. 123 (1992); Zagaris, International Criminal and
Enforcement Cooperation in the Americas in the Wake of
Integration, 3 Sw. J. L. & Trade Am. 1 (1996). The United
States has entered into some 20 "mutual legal assistance
treaties" through which it may develop and share evidence
with foreign governments in order to facilitate criminal
prosecutions abroad, see New MLAT Treaties Increase
DOJ's Reach, 4 No. 7 DOJ Alert 7 (Apr. 18, 1994) (listing and
discussing treaties); it has signed more than 50 new extradition agreements, see 18 U. S. C. § 3181 (1994 ed., Supp. II)
(listing extradition treaties ratified since 1960); Nadelman,
Cops Across Borders, at 489-502 (same); it has increased by
an order of magnitude the number of law enforcement offices
and personnel located abroad, see id., at 479-486 (cataloging
growth in foreign-based law enforcement personnel since
1965); and it has established a special office "'for the purpose
of centralizing and giving greater emphasis and visibility to
[the Justice Department's] prosecutorial service functions in
the international arena,"' which has led to a "dramatic increase in the number of extraditions" and an "even greater
growth in the numbers of requests for evidence in criminal
cases" since the 1970's, id., at 402 (discussing DOJ's Office of
International Affairs (alterations omitted)).
Indeed, the United States has a significant stake in the
foreign prosecution at issue here. Congress has passed a
deportation law targeted at suspected Nazi war criminals.
See 8 U. S. C. § 1182(a)(3)(E). The Justice Department has
established an agency whose mandate includes the assistance
of foreign governments in the prosecution of those deported.
See App. 15-17 (Order No. 851-79, establishing DOJ's Office
of Special Investigations). And the United States has
agreed with Lithuania (where Balsys may stand trial) "to
cooperate in prosecution of persons who are alleged to have
committed war crimes... [and] to provide.., legal assistance concerning [such] prosecution[s]." Memorandum of
Understanding Between United States Department of Jus-

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

tice and Office of Procurator General of the Republic of Lithuania Concerning Cooperation in the Pursuit of War Criminals, Aug. 3, 1992, App. in No. 96-6144 (CA2), p. 395. As
the Second Circuit reasoned, since the Federal Government
now has a stake in many foreign prosecutions akin to its
stake in state prosecutions, a stake illustrated by this case,
the privilege's purpose of preventing governmental overreaching is served by recognizing the privilege in the former
class of cases, just as it is served in the cases of "cooperative
federalism" identified by Murphy. Indeed, experience suggests that the possibility of governmental abuses in cases
like this one-where the United States has an admittedly
keen interest in the later, foreign prosecution-is not totally
speculative. See, e. g., Demjanjuk v. Petrovsky, 10 F. 3d 338
(CA6 1993).
An additional purpose served by the privilege is "our preference for an accusatorial rather than an inquisitorial system
of criminal justice." Murphy, supra, at 55. Even if this
systemic value speaks to "domestic arrangements" only,
ante, at 690, the investigation of crime is as much a part
of our "system" of criminal justice as is any later criminal
prosecution. Reflecting this fact, the Court has said that
the Fifth Amendment affords individuals protection during
the investigation, as well as the trial, of a crime. See Mirandav. Arizona, 384 U. S.436 (1966). And the importance
we place in our system of criminal investigation, and the distaste we have for its alternatives, would stand diminished if
an accused were denied the Fifth Amendments protections
because the criminal case against him, though built in this
country by our Government, was ultimately to be prosecuted
in another. This is true regardless of whether the "Bill of
Rights was intended to have any effect on the conduct of
foreign proceedings." Ante, at 701 (STEVENS, J., concurring). The Fifth Amendment undeniably "prescribes a rule
of conduct generally to be followed by our Nation's official-

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

dom," ibid. (GiNSBURG, J., dissenting), and it is that conduct,
not a foreign proceeding, that is at issue here.
B
If the policies and purposes that this Court has said underlie the Fifth Amendment-respect for individual dignity and
privacy, prevention of governmental overreaching, preservation of an accusatorial system of criminal justice-would all
be well served by applying the privilege when a witness legitimately fears foreign prosecution, then what reason could
there be for reinterpreting the privilege so as not to recognize it here?
Two reasons have been suggested: First, one might see a
government's compulsion of testimony followed by its own
use of that testimony in a criminal prosecution as somewhat
more unfair than compulsion by one government and use by
another. And one might also find the States and the Federal
Government so closely interconnected that the unfairness is
further diminished where the prosecuting sovereign is a foreign country.
But this factor, in my view, cannot be determinative. For
one thing, this issue of fairness is a matter of degree, not
kind. For another, changes in transportation and communication have made relationships among nations ever closer, to
the point where cooperation among international prosecutors
and police forces may be as great today as among the States
(or between the States and the Federal Government) a half
century ago. See supra, at 714-715 (discussing rise in international cooperation). Finally, this Court's cases suggest
that the remaining considerations-particularly the inherent
indignity and cruelty to the individual in compelling selfincrimination-bulk larger in terms of the basic values that
the Fifth Amendment reflects than does this single, partial,
fairness consideration. See supra, at 712-713 (citing cases).
I cannot agree that this particular feature-the fact that

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

prosecution by a different sovereign seems not quite as unfair as prosecution by the same sovereign-could warrant
denying the privilege's application.
The second consideration is practical. The majority, as
well as the Government, fear that application of the privilege
might unreasonably interfere with the work of law enforcement. See ante, at 697-698; Brief for United States 30-36.
But in my view, that fear is overstated. After all, "foreign
application" of the privilege would matter only in a case
where an individual could not be prosecuted domestically but
the threat of foreign prosecution is substantial. Cf. Zicarelli, 406 U. S., at 478-481 (declining to reach privilege claim
because witness did not face "real danger" of foreign prosecution). The Second Circuit points out that there have only
been a handful of such cases. 119 F. 3d, at 135 (finding only
six cases in the 25 years since Zicarelli). That is because
relatively few witnesses face deportation or extradition, and
a witness who will not "'be forced to enter a country disposed to prosecute him,"' 119 F. 3d, at 135 (quoting United
States v. Gecas, 50 F. 3d 1549, 1560 (CAll 1995), cannot make
the showing of "real and substantial" fear that Zicarelli
would require.
Moreover, even where a substantial likelihood of foreign
prosecution can be shown, the Government would only be
deprived of testimony that relates to the foreign crime; the
witness would not be entitled to claim a general silence.
See Hoffman v. United States, 341 U. S. 479, 486 (1951) (witness may only refuse to answer questions that might "in
themselves support a conviction" or "furnish a link in the
chain of evidence" for such crime). And nothing would prevent the Government, in a civil proceeding, from arguing
that an adverse inference should be drawn from the witnesses' silence on particular questions, see Baxter v. Palmigiano, 425 U. S. 308, 318 (1976), or from supporting that inference with evidence from other, nonprivileged sources.
Thus, without any adjustment in practice, it would seem that

Cite as: 524 U. S. 666 (1998)
BREYER,

J., dissenting

the Government would lose little information, and even
fewer cases, were the privilege recognized here.
In those rare instances where the need for testimony was
sufficiently great, a grant of de facto "immunity" remains a
possibility. The Government need only take steps sufficient
to make the threat of foreign prosecution insubstantial.
Thus, a promise by the United States that deportation will
not take place, or that deportation to a different country will
ensue, would seem sufficient. A further promise by the foreign nation that prosecution will not take place, or will not
make use of the elicited testimony, will obviate the need even
for such a deportation promise. And were a foreign sovereign to later seek extradition of the witness, the Government, under existing law, might retain the discretion to decline such a request. See 18 U. S. C. § 3186 ("Secretary of
State may order" extraditable person "delivered to ... foreign government"); § 8196 (giving Secretary of State discretion whether to extradite United States citizens provided
treaty does not obligate her to do so).
I do not want to minimize the potential difficulties inherent in providing this kind of "immunity." It might require
a change in domestic law, or in a given case, an adjustment
in an understanding reached with a foreign government. In
unusual circumstances, as JUsTIcE STEVENS recognizes, see
ante, at 701, it might require adjusting the legal rules that
express the privilege in order to prevent a foreign government's efforts to stop its citizens from testifying in American
courts. But I do not see these difficulties as creating overwhelming obstacles to the legitimate application of the privilege in instances such as the one present here. Nor do I
see these difficulties as significantly greater than those that
inhere in the ordinary grant of immunity, which also requires
legislation, and which also can create friction among competing jurisdictions. At worst, granting de facto "immunity" in
this type of case would mean more potentially deportable
criminal aliens will remain in the United States, just as to-

UNITED STATES v. BALSYS
BREYER,

J., dissenting

day's immunity means more potentially imprisonable citizens
remain at liberty. This is a price that the Amendment extracts where government wishes to compel incriminating
testimony; and it is difficult to see why that price should not
be paid where there is a real threat of prosecution, but it
is foreign.
In sum, I see no reason why the Court should resurrect
the pale shadow of Murdock's "same sovereign" rule, a rule
that Murphy demonstrated was without strong historical
foundation and that would serve no more valid a purpose in
today's world than it did during Murphy's time. Murphy
supports recognizing the privilege where there is a real and
substantial threat of prosecution by a foreign government.
Balsys is among the few to have satisfied this threshold.
The basic values that this Court has said underlie the Fifth
Amendment's protections are each diminished if the privilege may not be claimed here. And surmountable practical concerns should not stand in the way of constitutional
principle.
For these and related reasons elaborated by the Second
Circuit, I respectfully dissent.

