OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

RUBIN, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, ET
UNITED STATES, ACTING THROUGH THE

AL. V.

INDEPENDENT COUNSEL
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-53 (98-93). Decided July 17, 1998
The Secretary of the Treasury's application to stay the Court of Appeals'
decision to enforce subpoenas pending a decision on certiorari is denied.
He has not demonstrated that the interim enforcement of subpoenas
requiring the President's protectors to testify before a federal grand
jury investigating the President will cause irreparable harm. Nor has
he shown a likelihood that this Court, assuming it granted certiorari
and heard the case, would reverse the Court of Appeals' judgment.

Justice.
This case is before me as Circuit Justice on the application
for stay submitted by the Solicitor General, on behalf of the
Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin. Because several of my colleagues are out of the country, I have decided
to rule on the matter myself rather than refer it to the
Conference.
An applicant for stay first must show irreparable harm if
a stay is denied. In my view, the applicant has not demonstrated that denying a stay and enforcing the subpoenas
pending a decision on certiorari would cause irreparable
harm. The Secretary identifies two injuries that would result from denying a stay: any privileged information would
be lost forever and the important interests that the "protective function privilege" protects would be destroyed. I cannot say that any harm caused by the interim enforcement of
the subpoenas will be irreparable. If the Secretary's claim
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit

1801

1302

RUBIN v. UNITED STATES

Opinion in Chambers

of privilege is eventually upheld, disclosure of past events
will not affect the President's relationship with his protectors in the future. On balance, the equities do not favor
granting a stay.
An applicant for stay must also show that there is a likelihood that four Members of this Court will grant certiorari
to review the decision of the Court of Appeals on the merits.
This case is obviously not a run-of-the-mine dispute, pitting
as it does the prosecution's need for testimony before a grand
jury against claims involving the safety and protection of
the President of the United States. I shall assume, without
deciding, that four Members of this Court on that basis
would grant certiorari.
But a stay applicant must also show that there is a likelihood that this Court, having granted certiorari and heard
the case, would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. The applicant simply has not made that showing to
my satisfaction, and I believe my view would be shared by a
majority of my colleagues. The opinion of the Court of Appeals seems to me cogent and correct. The District Court
which considered the matter was also of that view, and none
of the nine judges of the Court of Appeals even requested a
vote on the applicant's suggestion for rehearing en banc.
The application for stay is accordingly denied.

