BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U.S.

Syllabus.

BEREA COLLEGE v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 12.

Argued April 10, 13, 1908.-Decided November 9, 1908.

This court will not disturb the judgment of a state court resting on
Federal and non-Federal grounds if the latter are sufficient to sustain
the decision..
The state court determines the extent and limitations of powers conferred by the State on its corporations.
A corporation is not entitled to all the immunities to which individuals
are entitled, and a State may withhold from its corporations privileges and powers of which it cannot constitutionally deprive individuals.
A state statute limiting the powers of corporations and individuals
may be constitutional as to the former although unconstitutional
as to the latter; and, if separable, it will not be held unconstitutional
at the instance of a corporation unless it clearly appears that the
legislature would not have enacted it as to corporations separately.
The same rule that permits separable sections Of a statute to be declared
unconstitutional without rendering the entire statute void, applies
to separable provisions of a section of a.statute.
The prohibition in § 1 of the Kentucky statute of 1904, against persons and corporations maintaining schools for both white persons
and negroes is separable, and even if an unconstitutional restraint
as to individuals it is not unconstitutional as to corporations, it
being within the power of the State to determine the powers conferred
upon its corporations.
While the reserved power to alter or amend charters is subjec't to
reasonable limitations, it includes any alteration or amendment
which does not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant
or vested rights.
A general statute which in effect alters or amends a dharter is to be
construed as an amendment thereof even if not in terms so designated.
A state statute which permits education of both white persons and
negroes by the same corporation in different localities, although
prohibiting their attendance in the same place, does not defeat the
object of a grant to maintain a college for all persons, and is not vio-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

lative of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution, the state law
having reserved the right to repeal, alter and amend charters.
123 Kentucky, 209, affirmed.

ON October 8, 1904, the grand jury of Madison County,
Kentucky, presented in the Circuit Court of that county an
indictment, charging:
"The said Berea College, being a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and owning,
maintaining and operating a college, school and institution
of learning, known as 'Berea College,' located in the town of
Berea, Madison County, Kentucky, did, unlawfully and willfully permit and receive both the white and negro races as
.pupils for instruction in said college, school and institution
of learning."
This indictment was found under an act of March 22, 1904
(acts Kentucky, 1904, chap. 85, p. 181), whose first section reads:
"SEC. 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or association of persons to maintain or. operate any college, schopl or institution where persons of the white and negro
races are both received4a s pupils for instruction, and any person
or corporation who shall operate or maintain any such college,
school or institution shall be fined $1,000, and any person or
corporation who may be cOnvicted of violating the provisions
of this act shall be fined $100 for each day they may operate
said school, college or institution after such conviction."
On a trial the defendant was found guilty and sentenced to
pay a fine of one thousand dollars. This judgment was on
June 12, 1906, affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State
(123 Kentucky, 209), and from that\court brought here on
writ of error.
Mr. John G. Carlisle and Mr. Guy Ward Mallon, for plaintiff
inerror:
A legislative enactment depriving a person of the right to
pursue his usual occupation or depriving a person of the right
to attend a school or institution-of learning of his own choice

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

is not due process of law, and if the person is a citizen of the
United States such an enactment abridges his privileges and
immunities as such.
.The act is not separable; it relates to but one subject and
has only one purpose-to prohibit the same person, corporation or association from receiving pupils of the two races for
instruction; in order to accomplish this, penalties are imposed,
not only upon the offending person, association, or corporation,
but also upon all persons who teach for the institution, although they may teach the two races separately, and upon all
pupils who attend such schools, although the two races may
be taught separately by different teachers and in different
rooms. It follows that if any provision is unconstitutional, the
entire act is invalid.
A party has a right to rely upon the unconstitutionality of a
statute where his rights are injuriously affected by the unconstitutional provision contained in the statute; and, where the
unconstitutional provision would not of itself directly affect
his rights, but is so connected with the constitutional provisions
which do affect them that it invalidates the entire act. Field
v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
158 U. S. 601.
The rule that a part of a statute may be unconstitutional,
and other parts may be valid, only applies where the parts are
clearly separable and may well stand alone. This rule does ndt
apply to cases where the enforcement of the unconstitutionul
parts affects the complaining party just as much as the eriforcement of the constitutional parts. The constitutional part
of an act will not be enforced when other parts axe unconstitutional, unless the court can assume that the legislature would
have passed tflh. act if the void part had been omitted.
The difference between the extent of legislative power over
schools and other institutions established and maintained by
the State and its power over private schools and institutions
is obvious. In the case of public schools the legislature may
regulate the hours of teaching, prescribe the text-books, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

qualifications of teachers, the ages at which pupils shall be
admitted, classify the students who shall be instructed together, and in fact do almost anything which does not make,
unjust or unconstitutional discriminations among the people
who contribute by taxation to the funds used in defraying the
expenses of the system. But a private school stands upon
exactly the same footing as any other private business, and
the power of the State to prohibit it, or to interfere with the
right to teach in it, or to attend it, is no greater than its power
to prohibit any other ordinary occupation of the people. The
statute is unnecessary and unreasonable, and therefore an
arbitrary interference with the rights of the people in the conduct of their private business and in the pursuit of their ordinary occupations. The right to maintain a private school is no
more subject to legislative control than the right to conduct
a store, or a farm, or any other one of the various occupations
in which the people are engaged. The right of the citizen to
choose and follow an innocent occupation is both a personal
and .a property right. Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 321;
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 591; Schnair v. Navarro Hotel
Imp. Co., 182 N. Y. 83; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City
Co., 111 U. S. 746; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; SlaughterHouse Cases; 16 Wall. 36; Colon v. Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188; People
v. Gibson, 101 N. Y. 389; People v. Marx, 99 N. Y. 377; In re
Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Lochner v. State of New York, 198 U. S. 45;
Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Washington C. C. 371; Maxwell v. Dow,
176.U. S. 588, 589.
The nature or extent of legislative power cannot be affected
by calling it the "police power." Absolute arbitrary power
over the lives, liberties and property of the people cannot
exist in this country, under any nahe or in any form, and it is
always the duty of the courts to disregard mere names and
forms in determining whether the legislature has or has not
exceeded its authority. It is for the court to decide, not only
whether the subject. to which legislation" relates is within the
scope of the power attempted to be exercised, but also whether

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the legislation itself is in violation of the personal or property
rights of the citizen. The subject to which the legislation
relates may be clearly within the scope of the police power,
and yet the enactment may be so unreasonable, unnecessary
or inappropriate for the accomplishment of the purpose ostensibly designed, that the courts, in the discharge of their duty to
protect personal and property rights, will be bound to hold
it null and void. Ritchie v. People, 155 Illinois, 98, 110; Eden
v. People, 165 Illinois, 296, 318.
The Constitution makes no distinction between the different
races or different classes-of the people, and if a distinction is
to be made, it must be done by the legislature in the exercise
of the police power. All such legislation is necessarily injurious
to the peace and prosperity of the people and its validity ought
to be clearly established before it receives the sanction of the
courts. The manufacture and sale of ardent spirits, gambling,
the maintenance of nuisances, the keeping of disorderly houses,
and many other vocations which are subject to regulation and
control in the exercise of the police power, are in themselves
injurious to the health, morals, and safety of the public; but
even over these subjects the legislative authority is limited
to the enactment of reasonable and necessary laws. Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 115; Bertholl v.
O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 515; Butchers' Union v. Crescent City Co.,
111 U. S. 756; Lochner v. People of New York, 198 U. S. 45,
and cases cited.
While the Fourteenth Amendment may not limit the subjects upon which the police power of a State. may be exercised,
so long as there is no discrimination on account of race or
color, yet in the exercise of that power the State cannot disregard the limitations which the Amendment imposes. Ex
parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Bashier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27-31.
The Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States were adopted, for the
protection of the colored race, and their primary purpose was
VOL. ccxi-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

to establish absolute civil equality-that is, to place the colored
race, in respect to civil rights, upon the same basis as the white
race. The Slaughter-HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36; Strauderv. West
Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S.: 313; Bush
v. Kentucky, 107 U. S. 110.
But the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment is not only
to secure equal civil rights to the colored race, but to protect
the white race also in the unmolested enjoyment of all its
rights of person and property.
In order to avail himself of the protection guaranteed by
that Amendment, it is not necessary for a party to show that
the legislation complained of makes a discrimination against
the white race, as such, or against the colored race, as such.
It is sufficient if it can be shown that an attempt has been
made to abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States, or to deprive persons of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, or to deny to any person
within the jurisdiction of the State the equal protection of
the law; and if the legislation attempts to do any of these
things, and the complaining party is, or will be, injured by
its enforcement, he has a right to contest its validity. It is
well settled that the word "person" in the Amendment includes corporations as well as individuals.
Social equality between persons of the white and colored
races, or between persons of the same race, cannot be enforced by' legislation, nor can the voluntary association of
persons of different races, or persons of the same race, be
constitutionally prohibited by legislation unless it is shown
to be immoral, disorderly, or for some other reason so palpably injurious to the public welfare as to justify a direct
interference with the personal liberty of the citizen; and
even in such a case the restriction should go no further than
is absolutely necessary.
The validity of this act cannot be sustained on the ground
that it was an amendment or repeal of the charter of the college.
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, distinguished.

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. N. B. Hays, with whom Mr. James Breathitt, Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, Mr. Thos. B. McGregor and
Mr. Charles H. Morris were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The statute is a reasonable exercise of the police power.
Legislative power is the power and authority vested in the
general assembly to make laws. This power, within constitutional limitations, is absolute and complete. The object and
purpose of every government is to foster and promote the
happiness and general welfare of its people. The welfare of
the State and community is paramount to any right or privilege
of the individual citizen. The rights of the citizen are guaranteed, subject to the welfare of the State. Henc%2the State
has not surrendered its sovereign power of legislation for the
general welfare, by constitutional guaranties of individual
liberty. Cooley's Const. Lim. (6th ed.), 704; Lake View v.
Rose Hill Cemetery Co., 70 Illinois, 192; 1lare's American Constitutional Laws, 766; Tiedeman's Limitations of Police Power,
212; 111 U. S. 746, Justice Bradley; 165 U. S. 580, Justice Peckham; State v. Holden, 14 Utah, 718; Comnonwealth v. Alger,
7 Cush. 85; Power v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; 22 Am. and
Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), 937.
This statute, the constitutional provision and the statutes
of Kentucky providing for separate public schools for the two
races; the statute prohibiting the intermarriage of the two
races; the statute incapacitating the issue of such marriages
from inheriting; and the statute requiring common carriers to
provide separate coaches for the two races, are in pari maiteria:
and the Commonwealth, in the cnactmeit and passage of all
these laws, had but one common purpose and end-to prse rve
race identity, the purity, of blood, and prevent an amalganiaation, and such is the settled public policy of the State. Kentucky Statutes, §§ 795, 2097, 2098, 2111, 2114, 4428.
Several other States, as well as Kentucky, prohibit the
two races from attending the same public school, and provide
separate public schools for the two races. These laws have
been held to be a reasonable and valid exercise of the police

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

power of such States, and not to abridge any right or privilege
granted by the Fourteenth Amendment to either of the races.
Lehew v. Brummell, 103 Missouri, 551, 552; Cary v. Carter,
48 Indiana, 362; Martin v. Board of Education, 42 W. Va. 515;
State of Ohio v. McCann, 21 Ohio St. 210; Cisco v. School
Board, 161 N. Y. 598; Bertonneau v. Board of Directors, 3
Woods, 180.
The laws of several States, including Kentucky, require
common carriers to provide separate cars or coaches for the
white and colored persons who travel over their lines. These
laws have been upheld by the Supreme Court of the United
States as a reasonable and valid exercise of the police power;
and notio abridge any immunity or privilege secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment to either of the races. West Chester
& PhiladelphiaR. R. Co. v. Miles, 93 Am. Dec. 747, 748.
The legislature of Kentucky is vested with a large discretion and is at liberty to act for the preservation of the public
peace and general welfare. The political rights of the two
races may be equal without being identical.

The conditions

of this statute apply equally to both races. Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 678; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677.
This statute neither denies the equal protection of the law,
nor does it deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law. Social equality is not guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, nor is voluntary association
guaranteed to the races.
The State by this statute prohibits the voluntary co-education of the two races, nothing more. Unless white pupils are
guaranteed the right to voluntarily associate with the pupils
of the colored race, and vice versa, the act is not in conflict
with, nor repugnant to, the Fourteenth Amendment. Cary v.
Carter, 17 Am. Rep. 757.
All property in the Commonwealth and every property right
is held subject to those general regulations which are necessary
to promote the common good and general welfare.
The following authorities will illustrate the different phases

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in which this question has been presented to the courts:
Cooley's Constitutional Limitations (7th ed.), 830; Powers v.
Commonwealth, 101 Kentucky, 287; Dunn v. The Commonwealth, 88 Am. Rep. 344; N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v.
New York, 165 U. S. 628; Gladine v. Minnesota, 166 U. S.
427; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Nor. Securities Co.
v. United States, 193 U. S. 196; Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 66;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366.
The right to do business within a State may be regulated
and sometimes prohibited when the contracts or business conflict with the policy of the State as contained in its statutes.
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,

'delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no dispute as to the facts. That the act does not
violate the constitution of Kentucky is settled by the decision
of its highest court, and the single question for our consideration is whether it conflicts with the Federal Constitution. The
Court of Appeals discussed at some length the general power
of the State in respect to the separation of the two races.
It also ruled that "the right to teach whiteand negro children
in a private school at the same time and place is not a property
right. Besides, appellant as a corporation created by this
State has no natural right to teach at all. Its right to teach
is such as the State sees fit to give to it. The State may withhold it altogether, or qualify it. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165.
U. S. 578."
Upon this we remark that when a state court decides a case
upon two grounds, one Federal and the other non-Federal,
this court will not disturb the judgment if the non-Federal
ground, fairly construed, sustains the decision. Murdock v.
City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 636; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S.
361; Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 146, 160; Allen v. Arguimbau,
198 U. S. 149.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Again, the decision by a state court of the extent and limitation of the powers conferred by the State upon one of its
own corporations is of a purely local nature. In creating acorporation a State may withhold powers which may be exercised.by and cannot be denied to an individual. It is under
no obligation to treat both alike. In granting corporate powers
the legislature may deem that the best interests of the State
would be subserved by some restriction, and the corporatioll
may not plead that in spite of the restriction it has more or
greater powers because the citizen has. "The granting of
such right or privilege [the right or privilege to be a corporation] rests entirely in the discretion of the State, and, of course,
when granted, may be accompanied with such conditions as
its legislature may judge most befitting to its interests and
policy." Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 600;
Perrine v. Chesapeake & Delaware Canal Co., 9 How. 172,
184; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305-312.
The act of 1904 forbids "any person, corporation or association
of persons to maintain or operate any college," etc. Such a
statute may conflict with the Federal Constitution in denying
to individuals powers which they may rightfully exercise, and
yet, at the same time, be valid as to a corporation created by
the State.
It may be said that the Court of Appeals sustained the
validity of this section of the statute, both against individuals
and corporations. It ruled that the legislation was within
the power of the State, and that the State mlight rightfully
thus restrain all individuals, corporations and associations.
But it is unnecessary for us to consider anything more than
the question of its validity as applied to corporations.
The statute is clearly separable and may be valid as to one
class while invalid as to another. Even if it were conceded
that its assertion of power over individuals cannot be sustaimed, still it must be upheld so far as it restrains corporatiois.
There is no force in the suggestion that the statute although

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clearly separable, must stand or fall as an entiretyon the ground
the legislature would not have enacted one part unless it could
reach all. That the legislature of Kentucky desired to separate
the teaching of white and colored children may be conceded,
but it by no means follows that it would not have enforded
the separation so far as it could do so, even though it could
not make it effective under all circumstances. In other words,
it is not at all unreasonable to believe that the legislature,
although advised beforehand of the constitutional question,
might have prohibited all organizations and corporations under
its control from teaching white and colored children together,
and thus made at least uniform official action. The rule of
construction in questions of this nature is stated by Chief
Justice Shaw in Warren v. Mayor of Charlestown, 2 Gray, 84,
quoted approvingly by this court in Allen v. Louisiana, 103
U. S. 80-84.
"But if they are so mutually connected with and dependent on each other, as conditions, considerations or compensations for each other as to warrant a belief that the legislature
intended them as a whole, and that if all could not be carried
into effect, the legislature would not pass the residue independently, and some parts are unconstitutional, all the provisions which are thus dependent, conditional or connected,
must fall with them."
See also Loeb v. Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472, 490, in
which this court said:
"As one section of a statute may be repugnant to the Constitution without rendering the whole act void, so, one provision
of a section may be invalid by reason of its not conforming
to the Constitution, while all the other provisions may be
subject to no constitutional infirmity. One part may stand,
while another will fall, unless the two are so connected or dependent on each other in subject-matter, meaning or purpose,
that the good cannot remain without the bad. The point is,
not whether the parts are contained in the same section, for,
the distribution into sections is purely artificial; but whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

they are essentially and inseparably connected in substancewhether the provisions are so interdependent that one cannot
operate without the other."
Further, inasmuch as the Court of Appeals considered the
act separable, and while sustaining it as an entirety gave an
independent reason which applies only to corporations, it is
obvious that it recognized the force of the suggestions we have
made. And when a state statute is so interpreted this court
should hesitate before it holds that the Supreme Court of
the State did not know what was the thought of the legislature in its enactment. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway v.
McCann, 174 U. S. 580, 586; Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western
Railroad, 175 U. S.348, 353.
While the terms of the present charter are not given in the
record, yet it was admitted on the trial that the defendant
was a corporation organized and incorporated under the general statutes of the State of Kentucky, and of course the state
courts, as well as this court on appeal, take judicial notice of
those statutes. Further, in the brief of counsel for the defendant is given a history of the incorporation proceedings,
together with the charters. From that it appears that Berea
College was organized under the authority of an act for the
incorporation of voluntary associations, approved March 9,
1854 (2 Stanton Rev. Stat. Ky. 553), which act was amended
by an act of March 10, 1856 (2 Stanton, 555), and which in
terms reserved to "the General Assembly "the right to alter
or repeal the charter of any associations formed under the
provisions of this act, and the act to which this act is an amendment, at any time hereafter." After the constitution of 1891
was adopted by the State of Kentucky, and on June 10, 1899,
the college was reincorporated under the provisions of chap. 32,
art. 8, Ky. Stat. (Carroll's Ky. Stat. 1903, p. 459), the charter
defining its business in these words: "Its object is the education- of all persons who may attend its institution of learning a Berea,' and, in the language of the original articles,
'to promote the cause of Christ.' " The constitution of 1891

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided in § 3 of the bill of rights that "Every grant of a
franchise, privilege or exemption shall remain, subject to
revocation, alteration or amendment." Carroll's Ky. Stat.
1903, p. 86. So that the full power of amendment was reserved to the legislature.
It is undoubtedly true that the reserved power to alter or
amend is .subject to some limitations, and that under the guise
of an amendment a new contract may not always be enforcible"
upon the corporation or the stockholders; but it is settled
"that a power reserved to the legislature to alter, amend or
repeal a charter authorizes it to make any alteration or amendment of a charter granted subject to it, which will not .defeat
or substantially impair the object of the grant, or any rights
vested under it, and which the legislature may deem necessary
to secure either that object or any public right. Commissioners
on Inland Fisheries v. Holyoke Water Power Co., 104 Massachusetts, 446, 451; Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, 522;"
Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 476.
Construing the statute, the Court of Appeals held that
"if the same school taught the different races at different
times, though at the same place or at different places at the
same time it would not be unlawful." Now, an amendment
to the original charter, which does not destroy the power of
the college to furnish education to all persons, but which simply
separates them by time or place of instruction, cannot be said
to "defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant."
The language of the statute is not in terms an amendment,
yet its effect is an amendment, and it would be resting too
much on mere form to hold that a statute which in effect
works a change in the terms of the charter is not to be considered as an amendment, because not so designated. The
act itself, being separable, is to be read as though it in one
section prohibited any person, in another section any corporation, and in a third any association of persons to do the acts
named. Reading the statute as containing a separate pvohibition on all corporations, at least, all state corporations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN, J.,

dissenting.

211 U. S.

it substantially declares that any authority given by previous
charters to instruct the two races at the same time and in the
same place is forbidden, and that prohibition being a departure
from the terms of the original charter in this case may properly be adjudged an amendment.
Again, it is insisted that the Court of Appeals did not regard
the legislation as making an amendment, because another
prosecution instituted against the same corporation under the
fourth section of the act, which makes it a misdemeanor to
teach pupils of the two races in the same institution, even
although one race is taught in one branch and another in another branch, provided the two branches are within twentyfive miles of each other, was held could not be sustained, the
court saying: "This last section, we think, violates the limitations upon the police power: it is unreasonable and oppressive." But while so ruling it also held that this section
could be ignored and that the remainder of the act was complete notwithstanding. Whether the reasoning of the court
concerning the fourth section be satisfactory or not is immaterial, for no question of its validity is presented, and the Court
of Appeals, while striking it down, sustained the balance of
the act. We need concern ourselves only with the inquiry
whether the first section can be upheld as coming within the
power of a State over its own corporate creatures.
We are of opinion, for reasons stated, that it does come
within that power, and on this ground the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

concur in the

ju(Igment.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

This prosecution arises under the first section of an act of
the General Assembly of Kentucky, approved March 22, 1904.

BEREA:COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

The purpose and scope of the act is clearly indicated by its title.
It is "An act to prohibit white and colored persons from attending the same school." Ky. Acts 1904, p. 181.
It is well to give here the entire statute, as follows:
"SEC. 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person, corpora-

tion or association of persons to maintain or operate any college,
school or. institution where persons of the white and negro
races are both received as pupils for instruction; and any person or corporation who shall operate or maintain any such college, school or institution shall be fined $1,000, and any person
or corporation who may be convicted of violating the provisions
of this act ,,hall be fined- $100 for each day they may operate
said school, collcge or institution after such conviction.
"SEc 2. That any instructor who shall teach in any school,
college or institution where ,members of said two races are received as pupils for instruction shall be guilty of operating and
maintaining same and fined as provided in the first section
hereof.
"SEc. 3. It shall be -unlawful for any white person to attend
any school or-institution where negroes are received as pupils
or receive instruction, and it shall be unlawful for' any negro or
colored person to attend any school or institution where white
persons are received as pupils or receive instruction. Any person so offending shall be fined $50 for each day he attends such
institution or school:; Provided, That the provisions of this law
shall not apply to any penal institution or house of reform.
"SEC. 4. Nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent
any private school, college or institution of learning from
maintaining a separate and distinct branch thereof, in a different locality, not less than twenty-five miles distant, for the education exclusively of one race or color.
"SEC. 5. This act shall not take effect, or be in operation before, the 15th day of July 1904.", Acts 1904, ch, 85, p. 181.
1 The plaintiff in error, Berea College, is an incorporation, organized under the General Laws of Kentucky in 1859. Its
original articles of incorporation set forth that the object of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAM,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

the founders was to establish and maintain an institution of
learning, "in order to promote the cause of Christ." In 1899
new articles were adopted, which provided that the affairs of
the corporation should be conducted by twenty-five persons.
In 1904 the college was charged in a Kentucky state court
with having unlawfully and willfully received both white and
negro persons as pupils for instruction. A demurrer to the indictment was overruled, and a trial was had which resulted
in a verdict of guilty and the imposition of a fine of $1,000 on
the college. The trial court refused an instruction asked by
the defendant to the effect that the statute was in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. A motion in arrest of judgment and for a new trial having been overruled, the case was-taken to the highest court of
Kentucky, where the judgment of conviction was affirmed,
one of the members of the court dissenting.
The state court had before it and determined at the same
time (delivering one opinion for both cases) another case against
Berea College-which was an indictment based on § 4 of the
same statute-under which the college was convicted of the
offense of "maintaining and operating a college, school and
institution of learning where persons of the white and negro
races are both received, and within a distance of twenty-five
miles of each other, as pupils for instruction." After observing
that there were fundamental limitations upon the police
power of the several States which could not be disregarded,
the state court held § 4 of the statute to be in violation of those
limitations because "unreasonable and oppressive." Treating
that particular section as null and void and regarding the
other sections as complete in themselves and enforcible, the
state court, in the first case (the present case) based on § 1,
affirmed, and in the second case based on § 4 of the statute
reversed the judgment. It held it to be entirely competent
for the State to adopt the policy of the separation of the races,
even in private schools, and concluded its opinion in these
words: "The right to teach white and negro children in a private

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

school at the same time and place is not a property right."
The state court (but without any discussion whatever) added,
as if merely incidental to or a make-weight in the decision of

the pivotal question, in this case, these words: "Besides, appellant as a corporation created by this State has no natural
right to teach at all. Its right to teach is such as the State
sees fit to give to it. The State may withhold it altogether or
qualify it. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578." It concluded: "We do not think the act is in conflict with the Federal Constitution."
Upon a review of the judgment below this court says that
the statute is "clearly separable and may be valid as to one
class, while invalid as to another;" that "even if it were conceded that its assertion of power over individuals cannot be
sustained, still the statute must be upheld so far as it restrains
corporations." "it is unnecessary," this court says, "for us to
consider anything more than the question of its validity as
applied to corporations. . . . We need concern ourselves
only with the inquiry whether the first section can be upheld
as coming within the power of a State over its own corporate
creatures." The judgment of the state court is now affirmed,
and thereby left in full force, so far as Kentucky and its
courts are concerned, although such judgment rests in part
upon the 'grdiund that the statute is not, in any particular, in
violation of any rights secured by the Federal Constitution.
In so ruling, it must necessarily have been assumed by this
court that the legislature may have regarded the teaching of
white and colored pupils at the same time and in the same
school or institution, when maintained by private individuals
and associations, as wholly different in its results from such
teaching when conducted by the same individuals acting under
the authority of or representing a corporation. But, looking
at the nature or subject of the legislation it is inconceivable that
the legislature consciously regarded the subject in that light.
It is absolutely certain that the legislature had in mind to prohibit the teaching of the two races in the same private insti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

tution, at the same time by whomsoever that institution was
conducted. It is a reflection upon the common sense of legislators to suppose that they might have prohibited a private
corporationfrom teaching by its agents, and yet left individuals
and unincorporated associations entirely at liberty, by the
same instructors, to teach the two races in the same institution at the same time. It was the teaching of pupils of the
two races together, or in the same school, no matter by whom or
under whose authority, which the legislature sought to prevent.
The manifest purpose was to prevent the association of white
and colored persons in the same school. That such was its intention is evident from the title of the act, which, as we have
seen, was "to prohibit white and colored persons from attending
the same school." Even if the words in the body of the act
were doubtful or obscure the title may be looked to in aid of
construction. Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374.
Undoubtedly, the general rule is that one part of a statute
may be stricken down a, unconstitutional and another part,
distinctly separable and valid, left in force. But that general
rule cannot control the decision of this case.
Referring to that rule, this court in Huntington v. Worthen,
120 U. S. 97, 102, said that if one provision of a statute be invalid the whole act will fall, where "it is evident the legislature
would not have enacted one of them without the other."
In Spraigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90, 94, 95,. the question
arose as to the validity of a particular section of the Georgia
Code. The Supreme Court of that State held that so much of
a section of that code as made certain illegal exceptions could
be 'disregarded, leaving the rest of the section to stand; this
upon the principle that a distinct, separable and unconstitutional part of a statute may be rejected and the remainder
preserved and enforced. "But," the court took care to say,
"the insuperable difficulty with the application of that principle
of construction to the present instance is, that by rejecting
the exceptions intended by the legislature of Georgia the statute is made to enact what confessedly the legislaturenever meant."

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

In Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 696, it was held that certain
specified parts of' the tariff act of 1890 could be adjudged invalid without affecting the validity of another and distinct part,
covering a different subject. But that, as the court held, was
because "they are entirely separate in their nature, and, in law,
are wholly independent of each other."
A case very much in point here is that of Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565. Those were actions upon
promissory notes, and an open account. The defense was that
the notes and the account arose out of business transactions
with the Union Sewer Pipe Company, an Ohio corporation
doing business in Illinois, and which corporation, it was alleged, was a trust and combination of a class or kind described
in the Illinois anti-trust statute. That statute made certain
combinations of capital, skill or acts by'two or more persons
for certain defined purposes illegal in Illinois. The defense
was based in part on that statute, and the question was whether
the statute was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, in that, after prescribing penalties for its violation, it
provided by a distinct section (§ 9) that its provisions -"shall
not apply to agricultural products or live stock while in the
hands of the producer or raiser." The transactions out of
which the notes and account in suit arose had no connection.
whatever with agriculture or with the business of raising live
stock, and yet the question considered and determined-and
which the court did not feel at liberty to pass by-was whether
the entire statute was not unconstitutional by reason of the
fact that the ninth section excepted from its operation agricultural products and live stock while in the hands of the producer or raiser. This court held that section to be repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, in that it made such a
discrimination in favor of agriculturists or live-stock dealers as
to be a denial to all others of the equal protection of the laws.
The question then arose, whether the other proviions of the
statute could not be upheld and enforced by eliminating the
ninth section. This court held in the negative, saying: "The

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

principles applicable to such a question are well settled by the
adjudications of this court. If different sections of a statute
are independent of each other, that which is unconstitutional
may be disregarded, and valid sections may stand and be enforced. But if an obnoxious section is of such import that the
other sections without it would cause results not contemplated
or desired by the legislature, then the entire statute must be held
inoperative. . . ..
Looking then at all the sections together,
we must hold that the legislature would not have entered upon
or continued the policy' indicated by the statute unless agriculturists and live-stock dealers were excluded from its operation
and thereby protected from prosecution. The result is that
the statute must be regarded as an entirety, and in that view
it must be adjudged to be unconstitutional as denying the equal
protection of the laws to those within its jurisdiction who are
not embraced by the ninth section."
The general principle was well stated by Chief Justice Shaw,
who, after observing that if certain parts of a statute are wholly
independent of each other, one part may be held void and the
other enforced, said in Warren v. Mayor and Aldermen of
Charlestown, 2 Gray, 84:" But if theyare so mutually connected
with and dependent on each other, as conditions, considerations or compensations for each other as to warrant a belief
that the legislature intended them as a wholej and that if all
could not be carried into effect, the legislature would not pass
the residue independently, and some parts are unconstitutional,
all the provisions which are thus dependent, conditional or
connected, must fall with them." This statement of the principle was affirmed in Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 84, and
again in. Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472,
490, cited by the court. In the latter case the court said:
"One part [of a statute] may stand, while another will fall,
unless the two are so connected or dependent on each other
in subject matter,' meaning or purpose, that the good cannot
remain without the bad. The point is, not whether the parts
are contained in the same section, for, the distribution into sec-

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

HALAN, J., dissenting.

tions is purely artificial; but whether they are essentially and
inseparably connected in substance-whether the provisions are
so interdependent that one cannot operate without the other."
All the cases are, without exception, in the same direction.
Now, can it for a moment be doubted that the legislature
intended all the sections of the statute in question to be looked
at, and that the purpose was to forbid the teaching of, pupils
of the two rades together in the same institution, at the same
time, whether the teachers represented natural persons or corporations? Can it be said that the legislature would have prohibited such teaching by corporations, and yet consciously
permitted the teaching by private individuals or unincorporated associations? Are we to attribute such folly to legislators?
Who can say that the legislature would have enacted one provision without the other? If not, then, in determining the intent of the legislature, the provisions of the statute relating
to the teaching of the two races together by corporations canthe same section
not be separated in its operation from those ifi
that forbid such teaching by individuals and unincorporated
associations. Therefore the court cannot, as I think, properly
forbear to consider the validity of the provisions that refer to
teachers who do not represent corporations. If those provisions constitute as, in my judgment, they do, an essential part
of the legislative scheme or policy, and are invalid, then, under the authorities cited, the whole act must fall. The provision as to corporations may be valid, and yet the other clauses
may be so inseparably connected with that provision and the
policy underlying it, that the validity of all-the clauses necessary to effectuate the legislative intent must be considered.
There is no magic in the fact of incorporation which will so
transform the act of teaching the two races inthe same school
at the same time that such teaching can be deemed lawful when
conducted by private individuals, but unlawful when conducted
.by the representatives of corporations.
There is another line of thought. The state court evidently
regarded it as necessary to consider the entire act; for it advoL. CCXI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN, J.,

dissenting.

211 U.S.

judged it to be competent for the State to forbid all teaching
of the two races together, in the same institution, at the
same time, no matter by whom the -teaching was done. The
reference at the close of its opinion, in the words above
quoted, to the fact that the defendant was a corporation,
which could be controlled, as the State saw fit, was, as already
suggested, only incidental to the- main question determined by
the court as to the extent to which the State could control the
teaching of the two races in the same institution. The state
court upheld the authority of the State, under its general
police power, to forbid the association of the two races in the
same institution of learning, although it adjudged that there
were limitations upon the exercise of that power, and that,
under those limitations, § 4 was invalid, because unreasonable
and oppressive. If it had regarded the authority of the State
over its own corporations as being, in itself, and without reference to any other view, sufficient to sustain the statute, so
far as the defendant corporation is concerned, it need only
have said that much, and omitted all consideration of the general power of the State to forbid the teaching of the two races
together, by anybody, in the same institution at the same time.
It need not, in that view, have made any reference whatever
to the twenty-five mile provision in the fourth section as being
"unreasonable and oppressive," whether applied to teaching
by individuals or by corporations, or held such provision to be
void on that special ground.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that when Berea. College
was incorporated the State reserved the power to alter, amend
or repeal its 'charter. If the State had, in terms, and in virtue
of the power reserved, repealed outright the charter of the college, the case might present a different question. But the charter was not repealed. The corporation was left in existence.
The statute here in question does not purport to amend the
charter of any particular corporation, but assumes to establish
a certain rule applicable alike to all individuals, associations
or corporations that assume to teach the white and black races

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

together in the same institution. Besides, it should not be assumed that the State intended, under the guise of impliedly
amending the charter of a private corporation, to destroy, or
that it could destroy, the substantial, essential purposes for
which the corporation was created, and yet leave the corporation in existence. The authorities cited by this court, in its
opinion, establish the proposition that under the reserved
power to amend or alter a charter no amendment or alteration can be made which will "defeat or substantially impair the
object of the grant." Holyoke v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500; Close v.
Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 476.
In my judgment the court should directly meet and. decide
the broad question presented by the statute. It should adjudge whether the statute, as a whole, is or i$ not unconstitutional, in that it makes it a crime against the State to maintain or operate a private institution of learning where white
and black pupils are received, at the same time, for instruction. In the view which I have as to my duty I feel obliged
to express my opinion as to the validity of the act -as a whole.
I am of 'opinion that in its essential parts the statute is an
arbitrary invasion of the rights of liberty and property guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile state
action and is, therefore, void.
The capacity to impart instruction to others is given by the
Almighty for beneficent purposes and its use may not be forbidden or interfered with by Government-certainly not, unless such instruction is, in its nature, harmful to the public
morals or imperils the public safety. The right to impart
instruction, harmless in itself or beneficial to those who receive
it, is a substantial right of property-especially, where the services are rendered for compensation. But even if such right
be not strictly a property right, it is, beyond question, part of
one's liberty as guaranteed against hostile state action by the
.Constitution of 'the United States. This court has more than
once said that the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment embraces "the right of the citizen to be free in the en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

joyment of all his faculties," and "to be free to use them in
all lawful ways." Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161, 173. If pupils, of whatever racecertainly, if they be citizens-choose with the consent of their
parents or voluntarily to sit together in a private institution
of learning while receiving instruction which is not in its nature
harmful or dangerous to the public, no government, whether
Federal or state, can legally forbid their coming together,
or being together temporarily, for such an innocent purpose.
If the Commonwealth'of Kentucky can make it a crime to
teach white and colored children together at the same time,
in a private institution of learning, it is difficult to perceive
why it may not forbid the assembling of white and colored
children in the same Sabbath-school, for the purpose of being
instructed in the Word of God, although such teaching may
be done under the authority of the church to which the school
is attached as well as with the consent of the parents of the
children. So, if the state court be right, white and colored
children may even be forbidden -to sit together in a house of
worship or at a communion table in'the same Christian church.
In the cases supposed there would be the same association of
white and colored persons as would occur when pupils 'of the
two races sit together in a private institution of learning for
the purpose- of receiving instruction in purely secular matters.
Will it be said that the cases supposed and the case here in
hand are different in that no government, in this country,
can lay unholy hands on the religious faith of the .people?
The answer to this suggestion is that in the eye of the law the
right to enjoy one's religious belief, unmolested by any human
power, is no more sacred nor more fully or distinctly recognized than is the right to impart and receive instruction not
harmful to the public. The denial of either right would be an
infringement of the liberty inherent in the freedom secured
by the fundamental law. Again, if the views of the highest
court of Kentucky be sound, that commonwealth may, without infringing the Constitution of the United States, forbid the

BEREA COLLEGE v. KENTUCKY. .
211 U. S.

.69

J., dissenting.

HARLAN,

association in the same private school of pupils 'of the AngloSaxon and Latin races respectively, or pupils of the Chfistian
and Jewish faiths, respectively. Have we become so inoculated
with prejudice of race that an American government, professedly based on the principles of freedom, and charged with
the protection of all citizens alike, can make distinctions
between such citizens in the matter of their voluntary meeting
for innocent purposes simply because of their respective races?
Further, if the lower court be right, then a State may make

it a crime for white and colored persons to frequent the same
market places at the same time, or appear in an assemblage
of citizens convened to consider questions of a public or political nature in which all citizens, without regard to race, are
equally interested. Many other illustrations might be given
to show the mischievous, not to say cruel, character of the
statute in question and how inconsistent such legislation is
with the great principle of the equality of citizens before the
law.
Of course what I have said has no reference to regulations
prescribed for public schools, established at the pleasure of
the State and maintained at the public expense. No such
:uestion is here presented and it need not be now discussed.
My observations have reference to the case before the court
and only to the provision of the statute making it a crime for
any person to impart harmless instruction to white and colored
pupils together, at the same time, in the same private institution of learning. That provision is in my opinion: made an
essential element in the policy of the statute, and if regard
be had to the object and purpose of this legislation it cannot
be treated as separable nor intended to be separated from the
provisions relating to corporations. The whole statute should
therefore be held void: otherwise, it will be taken as the law
of Kentucky, to be enforced by its courts, that the teaching
.of white and black pupils, at the same time, even in a private
institution, is a crime against that Commonwealth, punishable
"
by fine and imprisonment.
.

.

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants.

211 U. S.

In my .opinion the judgment should be reversed upon the
in violation of the Constitution of
ground that the statute 'is
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

also dissents.

STATE OF LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR.
ORIGINAL IN EQUITY.
No. 7.

Argued October 27, 28, 1908.-Decided November 9, 1908.

This court has no jurisdiction of an action brought by a State against

the Secretary of the Interior to establish title to, and prevent other
disposition of, lands claimed under swamp land grants where questions of law and fact exist as to whether the United States still owns
the lands. The United States is a necessary, party, and the action
cannot be tried without it.
THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Glenn E. Husted was on the brief, for defendants, on demurrer:
The United States is the real party in interest as defendant, and as it has not consented to be sued, and cannot be
sued without its consent, the bill must be dismissed. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S.373; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S.
60; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; Kansas v. United
States, 2.04 U. S.331.
The point determined by the Secretary of the Interior in
1895 was not a matter of fact and merely quasi-jurisdictional
as in Noble i. Union River Logging Co., 147 U. S. 164, 173,
but was a question of law and strictly jurisdictional expressly
within the classification of that case, which included the instance where "the Land Department issues a patent for land

