BRANDON v. ARD.
Syllabus.

21.1 U. S

We consider these observatiois as applicable to the present
case, and the result is

Appeal and writ oj error dismissed, and certiorari denied.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not sit.

BRANDON v. ARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 24.

Submitted April 29, 1908.-Decided October 19, 1908.

The policy of the Federal Government toward bona fide settlers upon
the public lands is liberal and the law deals tenderly with them.
A homesteader who has done all that the law requires will not lose his

rights on account of error of, or unauthorized action by, a public
official. Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537.
Lands within indemnity limits of a railroad grant are not open for settlement under homestead laws until the map of definite location has been
filed and their selection to supply deficiencies in place limits has been
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; and their prior withdrawal
by the Secretary from sale and settlement is unauthorized and does
not affect the rights of bona fide settlers. So held as to grants under
the act of March 3, 1863, c. 98, 12 Stat. 772.
The act of March 3; 1863, c. 98, 12 Stat. 772, did not actually grant
lands to which any claim of a bona fide settler had attached prior to
definite location of the road. Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564.
In a suitbrought by the Attorney General of the United States against
a railroad company to cancel patents under the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, the Attorney General represents only the United States; he cannot represent merely private parties.
A bona fide homesteader, not a party to an action brought by the Attorney General of the United States under the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, against a railroad company to cancel the patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

211 U. S.

issued to the company for the land entered by him is not a privy to
'or bound by the judgment against the United States; nor can the
adjudication in such a case estop him from setting up his rights in
the land for which the patent was issued. United States v. M., K.
& T. Ry. Co., 141 U. S. 358; Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S.537.
One not a party to an action brought by the United States to cancel
patents and who is not otherwise a privy to, or bound by the judgment against the United States, is not made a privy thereto, or become bound thereby because he is a member of an association which
urged the Government to bring the action.
74 Kansas, 424, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. A. Pollock, with whom Mr. L. W. Keplinger was
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
.The relations between the Government and Ard
with respect to this land and Ard's relation to and connection with
the suit were such as to render the decree in the case of United
States v. M., K. & T. Ry. Co. conclusive against Ard as to
the equities now claimed by him. Graham v. Great Water
Power Co., 76 Pac. Rep. 811; Norton v. Evans, 82 Fed. Rep.
804; Kerrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155; Manson v. Duncanson,
166 U. S. 533; Freeman on Judgments (3d ed.), ยง 147; Black
on Judgments ยง 85; Hornsly v. National Bank, 60 S. W. Rep.
180,; 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law (2d ed.), 737, 738; :Hanke v.
Cooper, 108 Fed. Rep. 738, 924; Thaller v. Hershey, 89 Fed.
Rep. 576; United States v. Beebe, 127 U S. 338 (Government a
trustee). Ard could have appealed. 3 Daniels (6th ed.),
*1461; Sage v. Central Railroad Co., 93 U. S. 412.
The withdrawal of March 19, 1863, withdrew the land in
question from the category of publiclands. Northern Lumber
Co. v. O'Brien, 134 Fed. Rep. 303; S. C., 139 Fed. Rep. 614.;
Woodv. Beach, 156 U. S. 548; Spence v. McDougal, 159 U. S.
62; Merrill V. Chicago Ry.Co.- 70 Fed. Rep. 464; Union Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Atchison Ry. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 106; Wolcott v.
Des Moines Co., 5 Wall. 681; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498;
Leavenworth &c. v. Unued States, 92 U. S. 745; Railroad Co.

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

v. Freeman Co., 9 Wall. 94; see dissenting opinion, Brewer, J.,
Nelson v. Nor. Pac. Railway Co., 188 U. S. 108.
The withdrawal of March 19, 1863, withdrew the land from
the category of "public land" within the meaning of the
words as used in the homestead preemption acts and such
withdrawal constituted a "reservation" within the meaning
of said. word as contained in said act. Same authorities as
above. Patterson v. Tatam, 3 Sawy. 164; Wolsey v. Chapman,
101 U. S. 770; Weaver v. Fairchild, 50 California, 560; Vicksburg v. Elmore, 8 So. Rep. 727.
The rulings of the Land Department authorizing the decisions of this court sustaining withdrawals such as the one
in question, and made prior to the time Brandon made his
purchase constitute a rule of property in his favor. See cases
cited in 13 Century. Digest, c., 2163, ยง 336, and sich rule
having been established by Federal authority, it is the legal
duty of the Government to uphold the title so acquired.
Mr. Oscar Foust for defendant in error:
The judgment against' the United States in th6' case of
United States V. M., K. & T. Ry. Co. is not condlusive in
Brandon's favor in the case at bar. Ard v. Brandon, 156
U. S.537; Black on Judgments, No. 540; 1 Freeman on Judgments (4th ed.), Nos. 188, 189; Hall v. Finch, 104 U. S. 261;
Patton v. Caldwell, 1 Dall. 419; Litchfield v. qrane, 123 U. S.
551; Apsden v. Nixan; 4 How. 11; Bank v. Stone, 88 Fed. Rep.
413; Australian Knitting Co. v. Gormley, 138 Fed. Rep. 92;
Wilgus v. Go-man, 72 Fed. Rep. 773.; Pendleton v. Russell, 144
U. S.640; Central Baptist Church v. Manchester, 17 R. I. 492;
Jones v. Vert, 121 Indiana, 140; Cannon River &c. Assn. v.
Rogers, 42' Minnesota, 123; Park v. Ensign, 66 Kansas, 50;
United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S.273; Stryker
v. Crane (or Goodnow), 123 U. S. 527; Brandon v. Ard, 74
Kansas, 424; Wilkie v. Howe, 27 Kansas, 578; Keizer v. Paper
Co., 71 Kinsas, 305.
The Kansas Supreme Court properly held that the letter

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

of withdrawal of March 19, 1863, was ineffectual to withdraw
the land from the class of lands subject to homestead preemption, and that Ard acquired equities, by his settlement,
as against Brandon. L., L. & G. R. R. Co. v. United States,
'92 U. S.733, 760; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Kansas Pac. Ry. Co.,
97 U. S. 491; Ard v. Brandon, 159 U. S. 537; Clements v.
Warner, 24 How. 394; Duluth Iron Range R. R. Co. v. Ray,
173 U. S.587; Weeks v. Bridgman, 159 U. S. 541; United States
v. M., K. & T. Ry. Co., 141 U. S. 358; Kansas Pac. Ry. Co. v.
A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co., 112 U. S.414; Hewitt v. Schultz, 180
U. S. 139; Nelson v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 188 U. S.108; Sioli
v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564; Southern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Bell, 183
U. S. 675; Holmes v. United States (9th Circuit), 55 C. C. A.
489; S. C., 118 Fed. Rep. 995; Moore v. Carmode, 180 U. S.
167; Northern Pac. R.' Co. v. Miller (Secretary Vilas), 7 Land
Dec. 100; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the title to a tract of land in Allen County,
Kansas, containing eighty acres. It is described in the record
as the northeast quarter of section 11, township 26, range 20,
and will hereafter be alluded to as the tract in section- 11.
Adjoining that tract, in the same township, is another tract,
of eighty acres which will be hereafter referred to as the tract
in section 2. The present writ of error does not involve the
title' to the tract in section 2, but it will conduce to a clear
understanding of the questions raised as to the tract in section' 1 if we recall certain acts of. Congress, as well as the
proceedings in the Land Department and the litigation that
arose in the state and Federal courts about both tracts.
BY 'an act of March 3, 1863, c. '98, 12 Stat. 772, Congress
granted to Kansas every alternate odd section of public lands,
for ten sections in width on each side, to aid in the construction of railroads and branches, as follows: first, of a railroad
and. telegraph line from Leavenworth, Kansas, on a named

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

route, with a branch to the southern line of the State in the
direction of Galveston, Texas; second, of a railroad from
Atchison, via Topeka, to the western line of the State, with
a branch extending to a named point on the first-named road;
one of the roads becoming subsequently known as the Leavenworth road, and the other as the Missouri-Kansas road.
After making the grant in the usual words, the act pro-.
ceeded: "But in case it shall appear that the United States
have, when the lines or routes of said road and branches are
definitely fixed, sold any section or any part thereof, granted
as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption or homestead
settlement has attached to the same, or that the same has
been reserved by the United States for any purpose whatever,
then it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
cause to be selected, for the purposes aforesaid, from the public
lands of the United States nearest to tiers of sections above
specified, so much land, in alternate sections or parts of sections, designated by odd numbers, as shall be equal to such
lands as the United States have sold, reserved, or otherwise
appropriated, or to which the rights of preemption or homestead settlements have attached as aforesaid; which lands,
thus indicated by odd numbers and selected by direction of
the Secretary of the Interior as aforesaid, shall be held by
the State of Kansas for the use and purpose aforesaid: Provided, That the land to be so selected shall, in no case, be
located further than twenty miles from the lines of said road
and branches:
By a statute passed February 9, 1864, c. 79, p. 149, Kansas
accepted this grant upon the conditions prescribed by Congress, and the Leavenworth and the Missouri-Kansas Conpanics became entitled to claim the benefit of its provisions
as to the lands on their respective routes.
A few days after the act of 1863 was passed-indeed, before the State had formally accepted the benefit of its provisions-the Senators and Representatives from Kansas requested the General Land Office to withdraw the public lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

along the specified routes of the railroads and branches proposed to be constructed. Pursuant to that request the Commissioner of the Land Office, on March 19, 1863,-without
having received any map of general route, much less of definite
location-sent to the Register and Receiver, at Humboldt,
Kansas, a diagram showing the probable lines of the roads and
their respective branches, as well as the ten-mile or place
limits on each side, and directed that officer 'to "withhold
from ordinary private sale or location, and also from preemption and homestead

.

.

.

all the public lands in

your [his] district and lying within the ten-mile limits are
[as] designated in said diagram." After referring to the acts
of 1853 and 1854 (preemption and homestead acts) the Commissioner proceeded: "You will, therefore, understand from
the foregoing: 1st. That the odd sections within the limits
of said railroads and branches are absolutely withdrawn from
sale, preemption, or homestead entry, except so far as inceptive rights may have accrued prior to the receipt by you
of this order.

.

This order will take effect from the

date of its reception at your office, and you will advise this
office of the precise time it may'be received by you."
The order of withdrawal was approved by the Secretary
of the Inierior and was received at the local office May 5, 1863.
After this withdrawal, Congress, by an act approved July 26,
1866, 14 Stat. 289, c. 270, made a grant of lands to Kansas
to aid in the construction of a southern branch of the Union
Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company from Fort Riley,
Kanas, down the valley of'the Neosho River to the southern
line of Kansas. This act is - referred to in the record, but it
does not seem to have any- special significance in the present
case. Suffice it to say, that it contained provisions substan..
tially: like those in the act of 1863, which made; it the duty
of the Secretary df the Interior to select for the railroad company public landsnearest the place limits, equal to such
amount as the-United States appeared, at the time of the
definite location of the road, to have "sold, reserved or other-

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wise appropriated, or to which the right of homestead settlement or prei.mption has attached."
Under date of April 30, 1867 the Land Office transmitted
to the local land office at Humboldt, Kansas, a map of the
actual location of the railroad for which the grant was made
by Congress in the act of 1863. The diagram showed the
ten-mile or granted limits of that road, and directed the withholding from sale or location, preemption or homestead entries
all the odd sections within the limits of twenty miles as laid
down on that diagram.
After the above withdrawal-which, as we have stated,
was made in 1863 solely at the request of the Kansas Senators
and Representatives-Ard, who was admittedly qualified to
take the benefits of the homestead laws, went upon the above
two tracts, in June, 1866, intending, in good faith, to perfect
a title to them under the homestead laws. He made substantial improvements upon them, and in July, 1866, in the
accustomed way, made a homestead application at the local
land office for the 160 acres. These two tracts of eighty acres
each were so situated that they could have been legally embraced in one homestead entry. Ard's application was denied
by the local office upon the ground, among others, that the
land was within the place or granted limits of one of the aided
roads. At that time the Missouri-Kansas Company-under
whom the plaintiffs in error claim-had not filed any map of
definite location. No such map was filed until December 6,
1866. In the spring of 1867 Ard did further work on the land,
building a house thereon, and about July 1st of that year he
again applied at the local land office, under the homestead
laws, for the land. This application was also denied on the
same grounds as were assigned in reference to his original
application. In 1872 he made a more formal application, but
was again repulsed by the Commissioner of the Land Office.
-Yet he did not abandon his claim, but held steadily to the
purpose of obtaining the entire 160 acres under the homestead laws, and remained in open, notorious possession, assertVOL. ccxi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ing his right to the land. And he has continuously occupied
the land ever since June, 1866.
It should be stated in this connection that after the rejection of Ard's original homestead application upon the mistaken ground that the lands were within the place or granted
limits of one of the roads, it was ascertained that neither of
the tracts was within place limits, but both were within the
overlapping indemnity limits of the respective roads. The
tract in section 11 was selected as indemnity for lands lost
jointly by the two companies, and was patented by the State
to the Missouri-Kansas Company on May 19, 1873. The company. knew when it selected the land to supply alleged deficiencies in place limits as well as when it took the patent from
the State, that Ard was in actual possession, claiming the land
under the homestead laws. The tract in section 2 was selected
by the same company on April 14, 1873, and on November 3,
1873, it received a patent for it directly from the United States.
C. H. ,Pratt having purchased from the Missouri-Kansas
Company the tract in section 2, and Brandon having purchased
from the same company the tract in section 11, each commenced a separate action of ejectment against Ard in a state
court. Judgment went against Ard in each case, and he was
also unsuccessful in the Supreme Court of Kansas. Ard v.
Pratt, 43 Kansas, 419; Ard v. Brandon, 43 Kansas, 425.
Ard then brought both eases here, and the judgments-were
reversed, further proceedings being ordered to be taken in
accordance with. the opinion of this court. Ard v.' Brandon,
156 U. S. 537. What this court said bears directly upon the
case as nbw :presente..
Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering the
judgment of the court, referred t6 'the . testimony-'and the
same facts appear in the present record-nd observed that
by reason of his occupancy and improvement of the land for
the purppse of a homestead and by his homestead application
-all of which was prior to the withdrawal of the lands by the
Land Department-Ard, who had admittedly the requisite
qualifications under the-homestead laws, acquired an equitable

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the C9ort.

right to the land that could not be displaced by the wrongful
act of the local land office.. After referring to. the case of
Shepley v. Cowan, 9i U. S. 330, 338, the court proceeded,
p. 542: "Within the authority of that case we think the defendant has shown an equity prior to all claims of the railway
company. He had a right to enter the land as a homestead;
he pursued the course of procedure prescribed by the statute;
he made out a formal application for the entry, and tendered
the requisite fees, and the application and the fees were rejected by the officer charged with the duty of receiving themand wrongfully rejected by him. Such wrongful rejection did
not operate to deprive defendant of his equitable rights, nor
did he forfeit or lose those rights because, after this wrongful
rejection, he followed the advice of the register and sought
in another way to acquire title to the lands. The law deals
tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes upon the public'
lands, with a view of making a home thereon. If he does all
that the statute prescribes as the condition of acquiring rights,
the law protects him in those rights, and does not make their
continued existence depend alone upon the question whether
or no he takes an appeal from an adverse decision of the officers
charged with the duty of acting upon his application. 'The
policy of the Federal government in favor of settlers upon
public lands has been liberal. It recognizes their superior
equity to become the purchasers of a limited extent of land,,
comprehending their improvements, over that of any other
person.' Clements v. Warner, 24 How. 394, 397. There can
be no question as to the good faith of the defendant. He went
upon the land with the view of making it his home. "He has
occupied it ever since. He did all that was in his power in
the first instance to secure the land 'as his homestead. That
he failed was not his fault; it came through the wrongful action
of one of the officers of the government."
Subsequently, after the return of the above cases to the
inferior state. court, Pratt, the claimant of the tract in section 2, abandoned his ejectment -suit against Ard, and. the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

United States brought an action in the United States Circuit
Court for Kansas against the Missouri-Kansas Company and
other railroad companies to cancel certain patents that had
been issued for lands in Allen County, Kansas, including the
one issued to the Missouri-Kansas Company for the tract in
section 11. United States v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co., 141
U. S. 358. Brandon was made'a defendant in that action
because he asserted rights in lands covered by some of the
patents sought to be canceled. But Ard was not made a
party, although some of the evidence in the case had reference to the tract in section 11, as well as to the circumstances
under which he occupied it. That action was brought by the
Attorney General of the United States at the request of the
Secretary of the Interior, who proceeded under the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, c. 376. That act directed the Secretary "to immediately adjust, in accordance
with the .decisions of the Supreme Court, .each of the railroad
land grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of
railroads and heretofore unadjusted." In that action the
Government was unsuccessful in both the Circuit Court and
in this court, but not, as we shall presently see, on any question determinative of the issue now presented as between
Brandon's heirs and Ard.
Later on, the present case, so far as it involved the title
to section 11, as between Brandon and Ard, was again heard
upon its merits in the.state court, and judgment went in
favor of Ard. That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Kansas, which had before it the judgments in Ard v.
Brandon, 156 U. S.537, and in United States v. M., K. & T.
Ry. Co., 141 U. S.358.
Subsequently, after the decision in Ard v. Brandon, 156
U. S.537, Ard renewed his application, under the homestead
laws, for both tracts:. Having made the proper proofs, and
paid the required fees, his application was approved and a
patent issued to him by the United States on October 17,
1900, under the homestead law of 1862 and the acts supple-

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mentary thereto. That patent was put in evidence at the last
hearing of this cause in the inferior state court and was part
of the record in this case when it was before the Supreme
Court of Kansas, whose judgment is now here for review.
In our opinion the determination of the present case depends upon the conclusions that may be reached on two
questions.
1. We cannot give to the withdrawal from sale, preemption
or settlement of the lands upon which Ard entered in 1866
the legal effect which the plaintiffs in error insist must be given
to it. It is conceded that the lands were not within the place
or granted limits of either railroad, but were within indemnity
limits. According to the decisions of this court, they were
therefore open to settlement under the homestead laws up to
the titfie of their being selected to supply deficiencies in place
limits, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior after
the filing of a map of definite location. The withdrawal of
them from sale, or settlement, simply at the request of Senators
and Representatives from Kansas, prior to the definite location
of the road and before they were regularly selected to supply
deficiencies in place or granted limits, was without authority
of law. Such unauthorized withdrawal did not stand in the
way of Ard, in virtue of his settlement on them in 1866 under
the then existing homestead laws, from acquiring such an
interest in the lands as would be protected against their subsequent selection by the railroad company. The acts of Congress cannot be construed as actually granting lands to which
had attached, before the definite location of the road, any claim
or right under the homestead laws. A claim or right did attach
to these lands in favor of Ard before any map of definite location' was made or filed and J efore they were selected for the
railroad company to supply alleged, deficiencies in place limits.
What we have said is in conformity with numerous decisions
of this court. cited in the margin. 1
1 Hewitt

v. Schultz, 10,V. S. 139;' Nelson V. Nor. Pac. Ry. C. 188

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

The cases cited were referred to in a recent case in this
court-Sioli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 565.. It was there held that
those cases established, among other propositions, the follow-'
ing: "That the railroad company will not acquire a vested
interest in particular lands, within or without place limits,
merely by filing a map of general route and having the same
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, although upon the
definite location of its line of road and the filing and acceptance of a map thereof in the office of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, the lands within primary or place limits,
not theretofore reserved, sold, granted or otherwise disposed
of and free from preemption or other claims or rights, become
segregated from the public domain, and no rights in such place
lands will attach in favor of a settler or occupant, who becomes such after definite location; that no rights to lands
within indemnity limits will attach in favor of the railroad
.company until after selections made by it with the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior; that up to the time such
approval is given, lands within the indemnity limits, although
embraced by the company's list of selections, are subject to
be disposed of by the United States or to be settled uporl
and occupied under the preemption and homestead laws of
the United States; and that the Secretary of the Interior
has no authority to withdraw from sale or settlement lands
that are within indemnity limits which have not been previously selected, with his approval, to supply deficiencies within
the place limits of the company's road."
U. S. 108; United States v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 152 U, S. 284, 296;
Nor. Pac. R.R. Co. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 634, 635; Menotti v. Dillon,
167 U. S. 703; United States v. Ore. & Cal. R.R. Co., 176 U. S. 28, 42;
St. Paul & P. R. R. Co. v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 19 U. S. 1, 5; St.
Paul & Sioux City R. R. Co. v. Winona & St. Peter R. R.Co., 112 U.S.
720, 723; M., K. & T. Ry.Co. v. Kansas P. Ry.Co., 97 U. S. 491, 501;
Cedar Rapids & Missouri River R.R.Co. v. Herring, 110 U. S. 27, 28;
Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739; Kansas Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. R.R.Co., 112 U. S. 414; Wilcox v. Eastern Oregon
Land Co., 176 U. S. 51.

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that the cases-above referred to arose under acts
of Congress that did not relate in terms to grants of lands to
the State of Kansas to aid in the construction of railroads.
But they are none the less in point here; for the provisions in
them as to homestead rights attaching prior to definite location, are, in substance, the same as are found in the above
acts of Congress relating to lands granted to Kansas.
2. When we recall- what this court (as above quoted) said
in Ard v. Brandon, 156 U, S. 537, about Ard'srights in respect
of these identical lands, there is no room to doubt the correctness of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas in his
favor, unless we hold, as plaintiffs contend we should, that
Ard is concluded by the decision of the Circuit Court of the
United States in the action brought by the United States to
cancel certain patents issued to the Missouri-Kansas Company. But we cannot so hold. As already stated, Ard was
not, and was not sought to be made, a party to that action;
He had no control of it and was not entitled of right to be
heard or to adduce evidence in it. He was not in any legal
sense represented in the case, nor can he be regarded as privy
to the issue between the United States and those whom it
sued. His membership in the Settlers' Protective Association
-which association, it is said, induced the United States to
bring the action referred to-did not so connect him, in law,
with the litigation as that the judgment therein would bind
him or be conclusive evidence against him. It must be assumed that the Attorney General of the United States sued
the Missouri-Kansas Company only in the discharge of his
official duty, and for the purpose of asserting the rights of the
Government as against that company. He could not have
represented merely private parties in that suit; he represented
only the United States. Ard was not, in any legal sense, a
privy to the issue of record between the United States and its
opponents, although the validity of the patent received by the
Missouri-Kansas Company for the land . here in questionunder which company the present plaintiffs in error claim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

was directly disputed by the Government in that case. It
is said that Ard was an active member of the Settlers' Protective Association. But that 'isnot a controlling fact. It
may be, as alleged, that, in respect of the patents issued to it,
the Government was induced to proceed against that company by the representations made and the facts brought to
its attention by that association. But that circumstance did
not so connect the association with the suit as to make the
judgment binding upon its individual members in a suit between other parties. In suing the Missouri-Kansas Company
the officers of the Government acted wholly .upon their independent judgment as to the validity of the patents it had issued,
and as to what was its duty to *those who had previously acquired rights in the particular public lands covered by those
patents. The issue in that case was only as to the respective
rights of the United States and the Missouri-Kansas Company,
as between each other. There was no issue between the company or those claiming under it and Ard, who was in actual
possession, claiming equitable rights in the lands in dispute
by reason of his occupancy of them under the homestead
laws. In United States v. Missouri-Kansas Company, above
cited, 141 U. S.358, the bill referred to those acts of the land
officers which had the effect to prevent settlers from acquiring rights which they were entitled to acquire under the homestead and preemption laws. The court, alluding to those
allegations, said: "If the facts are as thus alleged, it is clear
that the Missouri-Kansas Company holds patents to land
both within the place and indemnity limits of the Leavenworth road which equitably, belong to bona ide settlers who
acquired rights under the homestead and preemption laws,
which were not lost by reason of the Land Department having, by mistake or an erroneous interpretation of the statutes
in question, caused patents to be issued to the company. -The
case made by the above admitted averrnents of the bill is one
of sheer spoliation upon the part of the company of the rights
of settlers,'at least of those whose rights attached prior to the

BRANDON v. ARD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

withdrawal of 1867; whether of others, it is not necessary, at
this time, to determire." And in Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S.
537, 541, the court referring to the language just quoted, and
to the transfer of the legal title by the patent of the United
States to the Missouri-Kansas Company, said: "But it is
equally clear under the authority of the last cited case [United
States v. Missouri, K. & T. R. R. Co.], as well as of many
others, that no adjudication against the Government in a suit
by it to set aside a patent estops an individual not a party
thereto from thereafter setting up his equitable rights in the
land for which the patent was issued."
It results that, in the present case, involving only the title
to the tract of eighty acres in section 11, that, by his rightful
occupancy of that tract, under and in conformity with the
homestead laws, before any interest therein was legally acquired by the railroad company, Ard's equitable rights, thus
accruing and supported at the final hearing by a patent from
the United States, must prevail.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Kansas is
Affirmed.
MR.

case.

JUSTICE B REWER

took no part in the decision of this

