OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

of Elizabeth S. Ladd and Mary Louise Dunbar, making
with the + to which he is entitled in his own right 22041
eleven-hundreths. Coram is entitled as assignee to the other
two-thirds of the shares of Ladd and Dunbar, to wit, 147-&
eleven-hundredths, making the total in him and Root of
368- eleven-hundredths instead of 4151 eleven-hundredths, as
stated in the decree. The decree must be modified accordingly.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the Circuit Court is modified as above indicated, and,
as modified,
Affirmed.
* MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and

MR. JUSTICE MOODY

dissent.

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 286.

Argued )ctober 22, 23, 26, 1908.-Decided December i4, 1908.

Where an indictment is quashed because the facts charged are not
within the statute the Government has an appeal under the act of
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
While abstractly there may be a difference between "interpretation"
and "construction," in common usage the words have the same
significance; and "construction" as employed in the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, includes interpretation.
Under §§ 2347-2350, Rev. Stat., a person who is qualified to enter
coal lands in his own behalf is prohibited from making an entry
ostensibly for himself but in fact as agent for another who is disqualified; and an agreement to obtain land for a disqualified person
through entries made by qualified persons constitutes the offense
of conspiracy against the United States under § 5440, Rev. Stat.
The provisions of the Revised Statutes in regard to coal lands limit
the amount of land to be .taken. by each person entering; and while
there may be no statutory limitation on the right of the entryman to

UNITED STATES. v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

sell after acquisition, the statute, according to its plain meaning,
will be enforced as not permitting a person to acquire land as agent
for a disqualified person and so defeat the purpose of the statute.
A person cannot enter land through an agent, even though the agency
be undisclosed, if he is disqualified to enter the land himself.
The authoritative construction of a statute in a civil case may be applied in a criminal case subsequently arising; although United States v.
Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160, was a suit to annul patents to coal
lands the decision in that case that qualified persons cannot enter
coal lands under §§ 2347-2350, Rev. Stat., as agents, or on behalf of,
disqualified persons, will be followed as to the construction of those
statutes in sustaining indictments under § 5440 for conspiracy to
defraud the United States by obtaining coal lands by entries in violation of the statutes as'so construed.
A charge of conspiracy to defraud the United States under § .5440,
Rev. Stat., can be predicated on acts made criminal after the enactment of the statute. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S.62.
Even though a word may have a common-law significance which should
control if the word stood alone, in the construction of a statute the
word must be given the broader meaning resulting from the words
with which it is accompanied; and so held that the word "defraud,"
in § 5440, Rev. Stat., when construed in connection with the ac-> companying words "in any manner or for any purpose" includes
obtaining public lands in violation of the statutes as to quantities to
be taken by, and qualifications of, entrymen, notwithstanding the
United' States be paid the price of the lands. Hyde v. Shine, 199
U. S.62.
An amendment to a statute will be construed to relate to the present
subject thereof and not to be new legislation in regard to other subjects; and the act of July 7, 1898, c. 578, 30 Stat. 718, amending
§ 4746, Rev. Stat., related solely to the subject, of pensions and
bounty land claims, and simply extended the statute to the use of
fraudulent papers in regard to such claims, and a violation of
its provisions as amended cannot arise from acts in connection with
entries other than those on pensions and bounty claims.
Under the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, this court on
direct writ of error only has jurisdiction to review the particular
questions decided by the court below for which the statute provides,
and the whole case is not open to review.
157 Fed. Rep. 396, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

°

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

211 U. S.

The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Edwin W. Lawrence, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the United States:
The charge against defendants of conspiracy to defraud the
United States is specifically made a crime by § 5440, Rev. Stat.
Arguments that, because the coal land laws do not expressly
make it a crime for an individual to obtain lands in excess of
the designated quantity, it is not criminal to do so, are fallacious. Those laws furnish an occasion for conspiracy to defraud under § 5440, just as other laws and departmental
regulations furnish the occasion for crimes under statutes
which otherwise have no connection with them. See Caha v.
United States, 152 U. S. 211; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed.
Rep. 1.
The right of acquisition, not of alienation, is involved here.
The statute expressly limits the right to acquire and it is with
this limitation that we are concerned. The right of an entryman to alienate does not accrue, at least until an application
is made, and the conspiracy is charged to have been formed before that time. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425;
Adams v. Church, 193 U. S. 511, and Uuited States v. Budd, 144
U. S. 154, distinguished. The question is, Has an individual the
right to acquire from the United States more than the specified
quantity of coal lands?
Any lands obtained as a result of the execution of these
conspiraics can be recovered by the (,overnment on the ground
that they were obtained by fraud. -United States v. Trinidad
Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160. See also United States v. Lonabaugh,
15S Fedl. ep. 314. The scheme necessarily involved int(,itional concealment of facts in order to deceive anti mislead the
land officers and obtain from the United States the possession
of coal lands which defendants knew they could not obtain
without such concealment.
The history of § 5440, and the decisions construing and applyin' the section conclusively show that Congress did not intend to confine "conspiracies to defraud" to the offenses known

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

as such to the common law, but that it was intended that the
section should be applied so as to include frauds upon the
United States of every kind and character. Congress aimed
to protect the Government against those in whom avarice and
cupidity are stronger than the desire for good government and
honest execution of the laws. United States v. Stone, 135 Fed.
Rep. 392; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62; Dealy v. United States,
152 U. S. 539; United States v. Lonabaugh, 158 Fed. Rep. 314;
United States v. Robbins, 157 Fed. Rep. 999; Stearns v. United States, 152 Fed. Rep. 900; Bradford v. United States, 152
Fed. Rep. .617; United States v. Owen, 32 Fed. Rep. 534;
United States v. Gordon, 22 Fed. Rep. 250; United States v.
Hirsch, 100 Fed. Rep. 33; Curley v. United States, 195 Fed.
Rep. 628; United States V. Morse, 161 U. S. 429; United States
v. Haas, not yet reported; United States v. Stone, 135 Fed.
Rep. 392; McGregor v. United States, 134 U. S. 187.
Entry under the coal land laws is a matter within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior under § 4746, Rev.
Stat. In two unreported cases (United States v. Dodson,
United States v. Fout, Eighth Circuit) it has been held that the
words "pertaining to any other matter within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior" must be interpreted according to their plain and literal meaning, and therefore include matters pertaining to coal land entries. The purpose of
the amendment of 1898 was to extend the operation of the
statute, and in conformity with this 'purpose the language of
the statute should be construed broadly.
The regulation of the Interior Department requiring an
entryman to state in writing that he is making the entry solely
for his own benefit and not directly or indirectly in behalf of
another merely requires a positive statement of what it would
be in violation of the statute and a f;aud to conceal. The law
in limiting the amount of land one person or association may
acquire necessarily contemplates that entry shall be made
solely for the benefit of the entryman. Otherwise the limitation would be wholly ineffectual. The defendants are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

211 U. S.

charged with a violation of or a conspiracy to violate the
regulation. They made or were to make the statement which
the regulation required, but in making such statement falsely
,and fraudulently and filing it they committed or would commit crimes defined and punished by §§ 5440 and 4746. The
regulation merely furnishes the opportunity for the commission of d statutory crime.
The Interior Department has always held that an entry
could not be made by one person for the benefit of another.
Adolph Peterson et al., 6 L. D, 371; North Pacific Coal Co., 7
L. D. 422. These decisions deal with cash entries. The same
ruling is applied to cash entries under preference right in
Union Coal Co., 17 L. D. 351.
The practice of the Land Office and the regulations of the
Interior Department recognize the right of a person to make
an entry through an agent when the name of the principal is
disclosed. In such a case the principal takes the benefit of the
act and cannot make another entry thereunder. To permit.
entries to be made for undisclosed principals would nullify
the-statutory provision that one person or association of persons can make only one entry, for it would throw wide open
the door for fraud.
The Trinidad case is on all fours with these cases, aside from
the single point that there the corporation itself was at the
inception of the scheme disqualified to make an entry under
the coal land laws, while in the present cases the corporation
to which the lands were to be conveyed was not at first disqualified to make an entry in its own name. There is no difference between a case where the corporation is disqualified
before any act is done in performance of the conspiracy, and
one where the corporation is necessarily to become disqualified
during the execution of the conspiracy.
The cases of Williamson v. United States, Adams v. Church,
and United States v. Budd, supra, construing the timber and
stone act, cannot apply to coal land entries; the provisions of
the coal land laws are very different from-those of the timber

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211,U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

and stone act. Coal land entries are known as cash entries or
cash entries under a preference right. In the former an application is made, the money paid and receipt taken therefor at
the same time and all as one transaction. The entry is then
complete. The entryman may present his receipt and obtain
a patent, but title passes when the receipt is taken. It is apparent that there can be no such thing as an assignment of any
right in a cash entry. Until application is made there is no
right existing, and at the time application is made, other steps
are taken which complete the entry. In the case of cash entries under a preference right a declaratory statement is filed,
and within one year after, application for entry must be made.
At the time the application is made the money is paid, receipt
taken and title passes the same as in the case of a cash entry.
For the same reasons as exist there; it is apparent that there
can be no such thing as an assignment of any right in a cash
entry under a preference right.
The general mineral act of 1872 has never been held by the
courts or the Interior Department as being applicable to coal
lands. No coal land entry was ever made under it. The fact
that under the general mineral act one person may make any
number of entries cannot be held to overrule the manifest
purpose of Congress to limit the right to enter coal lands.
Mr. Edwin H. Park and Mr. FrederickN. Judson, with whom
Mr. Tyson S. Dines and John F. Green were, on the brief, for.
defendants in error:
There are no common-law offenses against the United States.
Any offense which may be the subject of criminal procedure in
a court of the United States, must be an act committed or
omitted in violation of a public law of the United States either
prohibiting it or commanding it. United States v. Hudson, 7
Cranch, 32; United States v. Cooledge, 1 Wheat. 415; United States v. Wiltenberger, 5 Wheat. 76; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; United States. v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 678;
United States v. Britton, 108 U. S. 199; United States v. Clayton,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

211 U. S.

2 Dill. 219; United States v. Manion, 44 Fed. Rep. 800; Todd v.
United States, 158 U. S. 278.
A requirement in a rule or regulation of a department cannot
make any act or neglect to act a criminal offense in the absence
of a statute making such act or neglect a criminal offense.
United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; Caha v. United States,
152 U. S. 211; Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425.
Perjury cannot be assigned upon an affidavit before a notary
public by preemptor of coal land under §§ 2348, 2349, Rev.
Stat. United States v. Manion, 44 Fed. Rep. 800.
Congress, in the public land laws, wherever considerations
of public policy prohibited pre-contraots of alienation, has
specifically enacted the prohibition in statutes declaring the
form of affidavit and assigning perjury for a violation thereof.
In the coal land statute there is no prohibition of alienation
by pre-contract or otherwise, and such prohibition cannot be
inferred from any supposed public policy not enacted in a
statute. St. Louis Co. v. Montana Co., 171 U. S. 650.
On the contrary, Congress intended the free exercise of right
of alienation by entrymen by pre-contract and otherwise.
The conspiracy statute, § 5440, has been construed in accordance with these fundamental principles, and as there are
no common-law offenses in the United States, criminal conspiracies are punishable only as such when they are distinctly
declared in the statute. There must be a combination of two
or more persons by concerted action to accomplish a criminal
or unlawful purpose, or some purpose not in itself criminal or
unlawful, by criminal or unlawful means. It is thus sharply
distinguished from conspiracy at common law which has been
substantially modified both by judicial decisions and statute in
England and in the courts of the several States. Britton v.
United States, 108 U[ S. 192; Pettibone v. United States, 148
U. S. 197; 2 Stephens' Hist. of Crim. Law in Eng., 121-127;
2 Wharton's Cfim. Law (10th ed.), § 1356, a, b and note;
Wrigh-t's Hist. of Crim. Conspiracies (Am. ed.), 6, 68.
The word "'defraud" in the second clause must be construed

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

in the sense of committing a fraud made so by Federal statute.
2 Wharton, ubi supra.
The indictment does not state a case of "defraud" at common
law. Bouvier's Law Diet., "defraud;" .7 Cyc. 123, "cheats;"
19 Cyc. 387, "false pretenses;" United States v. Wilson, 44 Fed.
Rep. 751; 2 Stephens, ubi'supra.
The statutory requirement of overt acts in conspiracies
against the Government is analogous to and taken from the
constitutional requirement in indictments for treason, and this
latter has sprung from the dread of constructive treason, and
is controlled by considerations of public policy, which prohibit the extension by judicial construction of statutory
crimes which are dangerous to liberty. Const. Art. III, § 3;
4 Blackstone, chap. VI; United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. S.
33; The Federalist, No. XLIII; 2 Curtis' Hist. of Const.
384; Arguments of Erskine in Gordon, Hardy and Horne Tooke
cases; Coke 3, Inst. 23; Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4 Met. ill;
Wright's Hist. of Crim. Conspiracy, 68; 2 Wharton, supra.
The conspiracy must therefore be sufficiently charged irrespective of any averment of overt acts, which are merely to
afford a locus penitentim. United States v. Britton, 1.08 U. S.
192; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197; United States v.
Taffe, 86 Fed. Rep. 113.
The United States cannot be defrauded by a citizen's sale
of his right of entry and purchase of coal lands when it has not
been prohibited by statute.
Constructive fraud, such as is cognizable only in a court of
equity, cannot be the basis of a criminal prosecution for conspiracy as no man could tell whether he had committed a crime
untilthe chancellor had passed judgment thereon.
"Fraud" as used in the bankruptcy act involves moral
turpitude and does not imply fraud or fraud in law, which
may exist without the imputation of bad faith or immorality.
Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704. See also Iennequin v. Clews, 11
IT.

S.

676.

"Vith intent to defraud, " as used in the Federal statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

211 U. S.

means a guilty intent. See Nat'l Banking Act, § 5209, Rev.
Stat.; Forgery Statute, §§ 5421, 5423, Rev. Stat. It is impossible to define the equitable conception of fraud. 2 Pomeroy
Eq. Jurisp. 873; Stephens' Hist. of Crim. Law, 121.
The right of contract for the conveyance of a property right
acquired or to be acquired thereafter, is inherent in the citizen,
and cannot be made a crime, or in anywise illegal in the absence of any statutory enactment.
The United States, therefore, cannot be defrauded by the
exercise by a citizen of the right.of alienation by contract,
where, for a consideration, deemed satisfactory to himself,
he extinguishes his own right. Trinidad Coal & Coke Co. v.
United States, 137 U. S. 161, is not. in point, as this is a criminal
action, and see Adams v. Church, 193 U. S.510; Hafemann v.
Gross, 199 U. S.342; Hartman v. Butterfield Lbr. Co., 199 U. S.
335; United States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154; Myers v. Croft, 13
Wall. 291.
Had Congress intended to prevent the exercise of this right,
it would have said so. France v. United States, 164 U. S.676.
The Curley Case, 130 Fed. Rep. 1, and the Stone Case, 135
Fed. Rep. 393, are not in point. In those cases the conspiracies
relate directly to the exercise of governmental functions in
public service, and in the protection of lives Upon the high
seas, and involved the invasion, if not violation, of specific
statutes and were acts in themselves mala in se and not mala
prohibita.
The second count of the indictment is specifically based upon
the statute § 4746, which is distinctly a pension statute and
not applicable to the case at bar.
The court may refer to the proceedings in Congress in order
to determine the evil sought to be remedied by the enactment
of the statute. Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603; American
Net &c. Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468, 473; Holy Trinity
Church v. United aates, 143 U. S. 457; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 36 Fed. Rep. 282, 285; United States v. Union
Pac. Ry. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 551; Untermeyer v. Freund, 50 Fed.

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 77, 80; United States v. Pattion, 55 Fed. Rep. 605, 641;
United States v. Wilson, 58 Fed. Rep. 768; United States v.
Hansey, 79 Fed. Rep. 303. This statute was construed as a
pension statute in Pooler v. United States, 127 Fed. Rep. 509.
See also Edgington v. United States, 164 U. S. 361, construing
the statute before its amendment.
The case should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction;, the
opinion below shows that the decision of the court as to the
first count was not based upon a construction of the statute,
and that the decision of the court as to the second count was
based upon other grounds decided adversely to the United
States, which grounds are sufficient to sustain the decision
and to quash the indictment.
The Congress, in enacting the law of March 2, 1907, used
the word "construction" in its ordinary meaning. When
Congress said "construction" it did not mean "interpretation."
The courts have long distinguished between interpretation and
construction. Bloomer v. Todd, 3 Wash. Ter. 612; S. C., 19
Pac. Rep. 135, 138; Proprietorsof Morris Aqueduct v. Jones,
36 N. J. Law, 206; State ex rel. Hastings v. Smith, 35 Nebraska,
13, 22; People ex rel. Twenty-third Street R. R. v. Commissioner
of Taxes, 95 N. Y. 554, 559; Deane v. State, 159 Indiana, 313;
Terre Haute &c. R. R. Co. v. Erdee, 158 Indiana, 334, 347;
United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 96. All 'that the
court below decided was that the case at bar was not within
the intention of the statute, because the language of the statute
did not authorize the court to say so.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States prosecutes this writ of error upon the
assumption that the decision of the District Court was based
upon an erroneous construction of the statutes upon which
the indictment was founded, and therefore, by virtue of the
act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564 (34 Stat. 1246 1), the right ob1 This act is reproduced in full in note to p. 398, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

tained to review the decision by writ of error direct from this
court.
The indictment contained two counts. Without quoting
them fully, it suffices to say, for the purposes of the questions which we are called upon to decide, if we have authority to decide them, that the first count charged that the
eleven defendants illegally conspired, in violation of § 5440,
Rev. Stat., with certain named persons and others unknown, to
illegally obtain the title of certain coal lands belonging to the
United States. The conspiracy was to be effected byprrocuring
variOuS persons as agents to enter coal lands in their own
namie, ostensibly for their own benefit but in reality for the
use and benefit of the accused and a named organization; the
purchases being made by the agents as above stated, not with
their own money, but with money of the accused or tile corporation, and under agreenients to convey the title, when
acquired, to the accused or to the corporation, thus enabling
the accused and the corporation to obtain coal lands belongill
to the United States in excess of the quantity which they were
allowed by law to enter. Copious avermnents were made in the
count as to the use of alleged false, fictitious an(d fraudulent
papers in making the entries in question, which papers, as filed
and entries made, had for their object and purpose to deceive
the land officers of the United States, so as thereby to cause
them to allow the entries in the name of the agents on the
suol)osition that the entries were for the benefit of the entrymen, and which entries they would not have had the lpower to
allow under the law, and would not have allowed had the
truth been disclosed. The second count, charged an illegal
conspiracy to do acts made criminal by § 4746, Rev. Stat.,
in making and presenting, and causing to be made and 1)rcsented, in connection with the entries of coal land, certain
false, forged, fictitious, etc., affidavits and papers.
To clear the approach to the issues to be decided we bring
into view the statutes which must be passed on. Section 5440,
relating to conspiracies, was amended May 17, 1879, by clrm g-

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

ing the penalties imposed by the section as primarily enacted.
As amended this section is as follows, c. 8, 21 Stat. 4:
"SEc. 5440. If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United States, or to defraud the
United States in any manner or for any purpose, and one or
more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to a
penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for not more than two years, or to both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."
The text of §§ 2347, 2348, 2349 and 2350, which provide for
the sale of coal lands belonging to the United States, is as
follows:
"SEc. 2347. Every person above the age of twenty-one
years, who is a citizen of the United States, or who has declared his intention to become such, or any association of persons severally qualified as above, shall, upon application to
the register or the proper land office, have the right to enter,
by legal subdivisions, any quantity of vacant coal lands of the
United States not otherwise appropriated or reserved by coinpetent authority, not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres
to such individual person, or three hundred and twenty acres
to such association, upon payment to the receiver of not less
than ten dollars per acre for such lands, where the same shall
be situated more than fifteen miles from any completed railroad, and not less than twenty dollars per acre for such lands
as shall be within fifteen miles of such road.
"SEC. 2348. Any person or association of persons severally
qualified, as above provided, who have opened and improved,
or shall hereafter open and improve, any coal mine or mines
upon the public lands, and shall be in actual possession of the
same, shall be entitled to a preference right of entry, under
the preceding section, of the mines so opened and improved:

Provided, That when any association of not less than four persons, severally qualified as above provided, shall have expended not less than five thousand dollars in working and iu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

proving any such mine or mines, such association may enter
not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, including such
mining improvements.

"SEc. 2349. All claims under the preceding section
must
be presented to the register of the proper land district within
sixty days after the date of detual possession and the commencement of improvements on the land, by the filing of a declaratory
statement therefor; but when the township plat is not on file
at the date of such improvement, filing must be made within
sixty days from the receipt of such plat at the district office;
and where the improvement shall have been made prior to the
expiration of. three months from the third day of March,
eighteen hundred and seventy-three, sixty days from the expiration of such three months shall be allowed for the filing
of a declaratory statement, and no sale under the provisions
of this section shall be allowed until the expiration of six
months from the third day of March, eighteen hundred and
seventy-three.
"SEc. 2350. The three preceding sections shall be held to
authorize only one entf b' the same person or association
of persons; and no association of persons any member of which
shall have taken thd benefit of such sections, either as an individual or as a member of any other association, shall enter
or hold any other lands under the provisions thereof, and no
member of any association which shall have taken the benefit
of such sections shall enter or hold any other lands under their
provisions; and all persons claiming under section twenty-.
three hundred and forty-eight shall be required to prove their
respective rights and pay for the lands filed upon within one
year from the time prescribed for filing their respective claims;
and upon failure to file the proper notice, or to pay for the land
within the required period, the same shall be subject to entry
by any other qualified applicant."
Section 2351 provides for conflicting claims in designated
cases, and thus concludes;
"The Commissioner of the General Land Office is authorized

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to issue all needful rules and regulations for carrying into
effect the provisions of this and the four preceding sections."
Section 4746 of the Revised Statutes, embraced in the title
"Pensions," was amended by the act of July 7, 1898, 30 Stat.
718, c. 578. The section, as amended, is as follows, the amendments which the law of 1898 enacted being printed in italics:
"That every person who knowingly or willfully makes or
aids, or assists in the making or in any wise procures the making or presentation of any false or fraudulent affidavit, declaration, certificate, voucher, or papers, or writing purporting to be
such, concerning any claim for pension or payment thereof,
or pertaining to any other matter within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner of Pensions or of the Secretary of the Interior,
or who knowingly or willfully makes or causes to be made, or
aids or assists in the making, or presents or causes to be presented at any pension agency any power of attorney or other
paper required as a voucher in drawing a pension, which paper
bears a date subsequent to that upon which it was actually
signed or acknowledged by the pensioner, and every person before
whom any declaration, affidavit, voucher, or other paper or writing to be used in aid of the prosecution of any claim for pension
or bounty land or payment thereof purports to have been executed
who shall knowingly certify that the declarant, affiant, or witness
named in such declaration, affidavit, voucher, or other paper or
writing personally appeared before him and was sworn thereto or
acknowledged the execution thereof, when, in fact, such declarant,
affiant, or witness did not personally appear before him or was
not sworn thereto or did not acknowledge the execution thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars or by imprisonment for a term of not more than five
years."
On behalf of the various defendants motions to quash the
indictment were filed, which the court granted. The grounds
of demurrer were substantially the same, many being addressed to technical attacks upon the sufficiency of the indictment, but in each of the motions the validity of the indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ment was assailed upon the ground that neither count stated
an offense within the statutes when properly understood.
The court in the reasons given by it for granting the motions
to quash substantially held as follows:
1st. That the first count related exclusively to cash entries
of coal lands under § 2347, Rev. Stat. That under this section no affidavits or papers were required other than the application to purchase, and therefore that all the allegations of the
count, respecting false and fictitious affidavits, papers, etc.,
related to documents tequired solely by the rules and regulations of the Land Department, which, not being expressly
authorized by the statute, could not form the basis of a criminal
conspiracy. The papers were therefore put out of view.
2d. That the coal land statutes did not prohibit one who
was qualified to enter coal lands from making a cash entry of
such lands in his own name, ostensibly for himself but really
for the benefit of another, who was disqualified to directly
make the entry, even although the ostensible entryman in
making the purchase in his own name was really acting as the
agent of the disqualified person, paid the price of the land
with the money of such disqualified person, and made the'
entry under an obligation, on the completion of the purchase
from the United States, to transfer the land to such disqualified
person.
3d. From the import of the coal land statutes thus announced
it was decided that a conspiracy to acquire coal lands from the
United States by the means stated was not a violation of
§ 5440, as the acts alleged did not constitute a defrauding of
the United States within the meaning of the word defraud as
used in the second clause of the section, because that word
must be interpreted in a restricted sense, and be given only
its assumed common-law significance, and could not be used
so as to embrace acts not expressly forbidden by law, upon,
the theory that their performance was contrary to a public
policy which it might be assumed caused the enactment of
the statutes.

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

4th. It was directly held that the conclusions just stated
were not in conflict with a previous adjudication of this court
construing the coal land laws, as the decision had been rendered in a civil controversy and could not be extended and
carried over so as to control the construction of the statute in
a criminal prosecution, thus "spelling out" a crime where none
was expressly declared in the statute.
5th. As to the second count, it was decided that § 4746
embraced only affidavits, etc., relating to pension and bounty
land claims, and the charge of a conspiracy to commit a crime
in violation of the section in question could not be based upon
allegations of the use of false and fictitious papers, etc., in
connection with entries of coal lands.
At the threshold our jurisdiction is questioned because it
is asserted the case does not come within the act of March 2,
1907.1 The grounds of this contention are as follows.
First. That the court below merely held that the facts
charged in the indictment were not within the statute, and
therefore the indictment and not the statute was interpreted
or construed.
Second. Because in any event the court below did not construe, but merely interpreted, the statutes.
As to the first ground, we dispose of it simply by saying
that the analysis which we have hitherto made of the decision
of the court below demonstrates that the contention is devoid
of all merit.
In support of the second ground, it is insisted that the construction of a statute is one thing and its interpretation another
and different thing. That abstractly there may be a difference
between the two terms is not denied in argument by the
United States, -and finds support in works Of respectable authority.
But, conceding the abstract distinction, and granting for
-the sake of the argument only that the conclusion of the

I The act is reproduced in full in note to p. 398, post.
VOL. ccxi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

court below might properly be classed, abstractly speaking,
as an interpretation and not a construction of the statute, we
think the contention without merit. It may not be doubted
that in common usage interpretation and construction are
usually understood as having the same significance. This
was aptly pointed out in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations,
6th edition, where, after stating the theoretical difference, it
is observed (p. 51): "In common use, however, the word construction is generally employed in the law in a sense embracing all that is properly covered by both, when each is used in
a sense strictly and technically correct." We think, when the
context of the act of March 2, 1907, is taken into view, and
the remedial character of the act is given due weight, 't becomes apparent that the word "construction" is employed in
the statute in its common signification, and hence includes
both construction and interpretation, although there may be
an abstract difference between them. This being so, it follows
that we have jurisdiction to review the action of the court
in quashing the indictment.
Putting aside for the moment technical objections to the
sufficiency of the indictment, it is conceded by both sides that
if the statutes which the court below construed be given the
meaning which the United States by the assignments of error
assert is the correct one, an offense against the United States
was stated in both counts of the indictment. The construction
of the statutes, therefore, is the real question for decision. We
propose to examine the statutes applicable to each count
separately, and in doing so to weigh the conflicting contentions
urged in argument bearing on the question of the true constructiom We reserve, however, for final consideration various
contentions relating merely to the construction of the indictment as a pleading, by which the United States contends that
the court below was wrong, even, if for the sake of argument,
it be assumed that its construction of the statutes was right
and by which the defendants in error contend that the order
quashing the indictment was right, even if the court was

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wrong in its view of the law, because of defects in the indict-.
ment.
1. The first count.
This count requires us to consider only the conspiracy provi-.
sion, § 5440, and the coal land provisions, §§ 2347, 2348, 2349
and 2350. As the applicability of § 5440 to the facts charged
largely depends upon whether those acts were forbidden by
the sections last mentioned, we proceed first to their consideration. Under these sections the question is, Do they prohibit
a person who is disqualified from acquiring additional coal
lands from the United States, because he has already purchased the full quantity permitted by law, from employing
one, who would be qualified if he made any entry of coal land,
in his own behalf, to make such entry ostensibly for himself
but really as agent for the disqualified principal to pay for the
land with money of such principal under the obligation, when
the title has been obtained by purchasing from the United
States, to turn over the land purchased to the concealed and
disqualified principal? That the statute does expressly pro-.
hibit such a transaction we think is foreclosed by a previous
decision of this court. Before coming.to so demonstrate, however, in view of the contrary conclusion reached by the court
below and the earnestness with which the correctness of that
conclusion has been pressed at bar, we shall briefly consider
the subject upon the hypothesis that it is open and not
foreclosed. Beyond question, by § 2347, Rev. Stat., everyone
possessing the qualifications of age and citizenship therein
stipulated is entitled, upon application and on payment of
the price fixed by law, to purchase in his own behalf one hundred and sixty acres of coal land, and every association of persons possessing the qualifications therein mentioned is entitled
to purchase three hundred and twenty acres of such land.
This right, however, to thus purchase is not uncontrolled, since
it is limited by the § 2350, saying:
"The three preceding sections shall be held to authorize
only one entry by the same person or association of persons:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

and no association of persons, any member of which shall have
taken the benefit of such sections, either as an individual or
as a member of any other association, shall enter or hold any
other lands under the provisions thereof; and no member of
any association which shall have taken the benefit of such sections shall enter or hold any other lands under their provi"
sions.
The express command that the preceding sections shall be
held to authorize only one entry by the same person or association of persons cauges the grant to purchase not to embrace
more than one entry by the same person, and as the right to
purchase the coal land did not exist except by the authority
conferred by the stattte, it follows that the express provision
excluding the right to do a particular act is both, in form and
substance, a prohibition against the doing of such act. To
hold that this prohibition does not exclude the existence in a
disqualified person of a power to employ an agent to make a
second entry, to furnish him with the money to pay -for the
land, under an obligation when he has bought from the United
States to transfer the land to the disqualified person, would
require us to say that the power was given to do that which
the statute, in express terms, declares shall not be done. In
othei words, it would compel us to decide that an act done for
a disqualified person by an agent acting for him and for his
exclusive benefit was not the act of the disqualified principal.
But this would be to nullify the prohibition upon the inconceivable hypothesis that the act of a duly authorized agent
was not the act of his principal. To escape this impossible
result it is insisted in argument that where a person qualified
to purchase buys in his own name, without disclosing that he
is a mere agent for a disqualified person, as he, the agent,
thereby exhausts his individual ight, the purchase must be
treated as his and not that of the undisclosed principal. This,
however, does not change the situation, but simply seeks, to
avoid it by the statement of a distinction without a difference,
since it again but reads the prohibition out of the statute by

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

causing it to be inoperative if the disqualified person elects
to do by another, his agent, that which the statute forbids
him to do. True, the statute imposes no limitation on the
right of a purchaser who has acquired coal land from the
United States to sell the same after he has become the owner
of the land. The absence, however, of a limitation on the
power to sell after acquisition affords no ground for saying
that the express prohibition of the statute against more than
one entry by the same person should not be enforced according to its plain meaning. This clearly follows, since the right
to sell that which one has lawfully acquired neither directly
nor indirectly implies the authority to unlawfully acquire in
violation of an express prohibition.
It is elaborately argued that the laws as to the sale of coal
lands were originally embraced in the general statutes regulating the disposition of mineral lands, in which there were no
limitations whatever as to the number of entries that a single
entryman might make. With this genesis in mind it is urged
that the sole purpose of the prohibition forbidding more than
one entry by the same person, inserted in the coal land laws
when that subject came to be separately dealt with, was to
secure to every citizen the right if he chose to make one entry; in other words, to prevent the monopolization by one person by means of many entries of the whole or a vast part of
the coal fields belonging to the United States. From this it
is insisted the prohibition forbidding more than one entry
by the same person should not be held to embrace an entry
made by a qualified person for the benefit and as the agent of
a disqualified one when the qualified person did not disclose
the fact that he was acting as an agent. Conceding for the
sake of argument the premise, we do not perceive its relevancy.
That is to say, we do not comprehend how such concession
lends support to the proposition that the prohibition against
.more than. one entry by the same person should be disregarded
by allowing more than one entry by the same person, if only
that person chose, after making one entry in his own name,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

to cause other and subsequent entries ad libitum to be made
for his benefit by his agent with his money and for his exclusive account.
But if the mind could bring itself upon grounds of the
supposed public policy of the statute to disregard the pro-.
hibition which it expressly contains, the argument here advanced, instead of conducing to that result, leads directly to
the contrary.. The purpose of the prohibition being, as the
argument insists, to keep open the opportunity to every citizen
to make one entry for himself, thus discouraging monopoly,
it is obvious that that public purpose would be frustrated by
allowing a person to make one entry in his own name and
thereafter as many as he chose through his agents and for his
exclusive benefit. It is a misconception to assume that there
is any real identity between a purchase made by a qualified
person in his own name and for himself with a purchase made
by such person ostensibly for himself but really as the agent
of a disqualified person. In the one case the person securing
coal land from the United States for himself is free to dispose of
the land after acquisition as he may deem best for his interest
and for the development of the property acquired. In the
other case the ostensible purchaser acquires with no dominion
or control over the, property, with no power to deal with it
free from the' control of the disqualified person for whose benefit
the purchase was made.
And the legislation of Congress subsequent to the coal land
laws indicates that Congress contemplated, in enacting the
prohibition against more than one entry, the distinction between an entry made by one for himself, with the full power
of disposition after entry, and an entry made by one ostensibly
for himself but in reality for another. Thus, under the timber
culture act of June 14, 1878, c. 190, 20 Stat. 113, which conferred authority upon citizens of the United States, or persons
who had declared their intention to become such, to make
one entry of not exceeding one quarter-section of land for the
cultivation of timber,' the statute was sedulous to require

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the person desiring to hold and cultivate the land should,
at the time of making his entry, swear in his application that
his filing and entry was made for his own exclusive use and
benefit.
And the public policy lyipg at the foundation of the prohibition against an entry of land for the conceded benefit of
another, whilst leaving full power of disposition in one who
acquired the land in compliance with the statute, was pointed
out in United States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154, where, in considering the timber and stone act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat.
89, it was said (p. 163):
"The act does not in any respect limit the dominion which
the purchaser has .over the land after its purchase from the
Government, or restrict in the slightest his power of alienation.
All that it denounces is a prior agreement, the acting for another in the purchase. If when the title passed from the Government no one save the purchaser has any claim upon it, or
any contract or agreement for it, the act is satisfied."
We shall not further pursue the analysis, as we think it is
patent that the whole argument rests upon a plain disregard
of the prohibition which the statute contains or seeks to render that prohibition nugatory by c&ntradictory assumptions;
that is to say, by assuming that things which are one and the
same are wholly different, and on the other hand by asserting
that things which are different are one and the same. This
is said because such is ihe result of the contention thata pur.
chase made by one through his agent is in legal effecta different thing from a purchase made by the principal, and on the
other hand by the proposition that a purchase made by one
for his own account is not; different from a purchase made by
the same person, not for his own account but for another.
But, as we have hitherto observed, the review of the co-i'
tentions as an original question was not essential, because their
want of merit affirmatively appears from a prior adjudication
of this courl. The case referred to is United States v. Trinidad
Coal Company, 137 U. S. 160. The United States sued to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion Qf the Court.

211 U. S.

annul certain patents to coal lands on the ground that the
land had been purchased by officers and employ~s of a corporation when the corporation itself was disqualified, because
it had already made one entry. The court below had sustained
a demurrer to the bill. Its decree was reversed and it was
expressly decided that the entries made both by the officers
of the corporation and its employ6s were void. The contention was urged that the employ~s, having each a right to make
an efitry for his own account, it was not unlawful to do so for
the benefit of the corporation. This was expressly negatived,
the court saying (p. 167):
"It is true, in the present case, that some of the persons who
made the entries in question were not, strictly speaking, members of the corporation but only its employ6s. But as they
were parties to the alleged scheme, and were, in fact, agents
of the defendant in obtaining from the Government coal lands
that could not rightfully have been entered in its own name,
that circumstance is not controlling.

.

.

.

There is, con-

sequently, in view of all the allegations of the bill, no escape
from the conclusion that the lands in question were fraudulently
obtained from the United States. We say fraudulently obtained, because, if the facts admitted by the demurrer had
been set out in the papers filed in the Land Office, the patents
sought. to be cancelled could not have been issued without
violating the statute. The defendant would not have been
permitted to do indirectly that which it could not do directly."
Because the statute was thus construed in a civil cause
affords no reason for saying that the authoritative construction
of the statute is not to be applied in a criminal case. It is
true that in the reasoning of the opinion the public policy
upon which the prohibition of the statute was founded was
pointed out, but this does not justify the contention that the
decision was rested, not upon the prohibition, but upon public
policy alone.
The contention that the rules and regulations of the General Land Office or decisions made thereunder have recognized

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the right of a qualified person to enter coal lands in his own
name, ostensibly for himself but really for a disqualified person, under the obligation to transfer the land after purchase
to such person, we think finds no semblance of support either
in the rules and regulations or in the decisions of the Department.
The meaning of the coal land statutes being thus fixed,
the consideration of the conspiracy statute, § 5440, Rev. Stat.,
is free from difficulty. It will be observed that the section
embraces two classes of conspiracies, the first "to commit any
offense against the United States" and the other "to defraud
the United States in any manner or for any purpose." The
count we are now considering, it is not disputed, was framed
upon the second clause. The proposition urged in argument
that a charge of the commission of crime cannot constitutionally be predicated upon the averment of a conspiracy to
defraud under the second clause, unless the acts charged were
antecedently made criminal, is without merit and is foreclosed
by Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S.62, wherein it was expressly held
that a prosecution would lie upon the charge of a conspiracy
to obtain by fraudulent practices public lands of the United
States. And indeed the ruling in that case was but the reiteration of the prior rulings in United States v. Hirsch, 100 U. -. 33,
and Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S.539.
The contention that the word "defraud" must be confined
to its common-law significance, and hence cannot embrace the
acts here charged, is without merit, even if we concede for
the sake of argument that the word has a common-law meaning, and that that meaning would be impelled if the word
stood alone in the statute. This follows because the argument
rests upon' the assumption that the word "defraud" stands
alone in the statute, and ignores the broader meaning which
must result from the words "in any manner or for any purpose," by which the word "defraud" is accompanied in the
statute. Besides, the contention is foreclosed by United A3.atee.
v. Trinidad Coal Company, where transactions of the very

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

nature of those here charged were declared to be a fraudulent
obtaining of the lands of the United States, and indeed transactions generally of a like character formed the subject-matter
of the ruling in Hyde v. Shine.
The unsoundness of the argument that as when the prohibited entries were made the price of the lands was paid to
the United States, therefore the United States could not have
been defrauded, is refuted by its mere statement. If it were
true, then in every case, however flagrant, where the lands of
the United States were procured in violation of express prohibitions of law, the element of fraud would cease to exist by
the mere payment of the price; that is to say, the successful
operation of the fraud would deprive the transaction of its
fraudulent character. But the inherent weakness of the c6ntention need not be further pointed out, because its want of
merit is conclusively established by the ruling in Hyde v.
Shine, where a, like contention was decided to be without
foundation.
The attempt to distingiuish this case from Hyde v. Shine,
upon the theory that there the parties obtaining the land were
disqualified whilst in this they were not, rests upon the misconstruction of the coal land statutes which we have already
pointed out, a misconstruction which we have seen led the
court, in its ultimate conclusion, erroneously to say that the
entrymen who acted as the agents of the disquaified persons
or corporation were not forbidden by the statute to act as they
did, because they might have made an entry'for themselves.
Nor do we deem it necessary to do more than briefly refer
to the elaborate statements at bar concerning constructive
crimes and the fear which also found expression in the opinion
below, that if the words to defraud in any manner or for any
purpose receive a broad significance charges of crime may
be hereafter predicated upon acts not prohibited and innocuous in and of themselves, and. which, when they were
committed, might have been deemed by no one to afford the
basis of a criminal prosecution. It will be time enough to

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consider such forebodings when a case arises indicating that
the dread is real and not imaginary. That they are mere
phantoms when applied to the case -here presented results
from the obvious consideration that the conspiracy charged
had for its purpose the doing of acts which were in -clear violation of the direct prohibition of the coal land laws, a prohibition whose meaning and effect had been unmistakably announced and applied by a decision of this court rendered
many years before the formation of the conspiracy here charged.
The cogency of these considerations becomes more pointedly
manifest when it is bome in mind that the purpose and necessary effect of the conspiracy complained of was to obtain the
lands of the United States by the suppression of facts which,
had they been disclosed, would have rendered the acquisition
impossible.
2. The second count.
The court below considered that the second count was
framed solely upon the first clause of § 5440; that is, it held
that the count charged the formation of a conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States through a violation
of § 4746, and because of the construction given to that section it was decided that the count stated no offense. In testing the count in this aspect we must primarily fix the meaning
of § 4746, as violations of that section were charged to'have
been the subject of the alleged conspiracy.
It was conceded by the United States in argument, and
indeed it could not have been in reason denied, that the section in question, as originally embodied under the head of
pensions in the Revised Statutes, related exclusively to. pension or bounty land claims. No crime, therefore,' could have.
been predicated under the original section upon the affidavits
or other papers used in making the coal land entries as alleged.
in the indictment. The contention, therefore, as now made
by the United States, to sustain the second count, rests upon.
the proposition that the amendment to §4746 by the act of
July 7, 1898, had the effect of bringing within that section sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

jects to which, prior to the amendment, the section in no
manner related. Turning to the text, which we have previously quoted, with the provisions incorporated by the amending act, printed therein in, italics, it will be observed that
every enumeration or description of new acts or papers in
addition to those embraced in the section prior to the amendment, alone concern pension or bounty land claims. The
argument as to the broad scope of the statute in its present
form rests therefore alone upon the proposition that because
the amendatory statute in repeating the original words, viz.,
"concerning any claim for pension or payment thereof, or
pertaining to any other matter within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner of Pensions," adds to them the following, viz.,
"or of the Secretary of the Interior," therefore the statute
now embraces not only acts done in connection with pension
or bounty land claims, but all acts of the prohibited character
as to any matter coming before the Secretary of the Interior,
or subject to so come, entirely without reference to whether
they were in. pension or bounty land claims or proceedings.
But to adopt this latitudinarian construction would cause the
statute to create a multitude of new and substantive crimes,
wholly disconnected with claims for pensions or bounty land,
with which latter it was alone evidently the purpose of the
original as well as the amendatory statute to deal. We think
to state the proposition is in effect to answer it. When the
original text and the amendments which were made are taken
into view, the conclusion inevitably follows that the purpose
of the amendment was but to more specifically define the
pension or bounty land papers; etc.; with which the statute
was concerned, and to enlarge the operation of the statute
in respect to such papers so as to cause it to be criminal to
use the pension or bounty land papers, etc., to which the
statute refers, as well before the Secretary of the Interior as
before the Commissioner of Pensions. In other words, that
the only purpose of the amendment was to more fully deal
with the subjects with which the pro'tision which was amended

UNITED STATES v. KEITEL.
211 U. S.

397

Opinion of the Court.

dealt, and.not by way of the amendment to legislate concerning every conceivable subject coming within the jurisdiction
of the Secretary of the Interior. To otherwyise hold would not
only violate the most elementary rules of construction, but
would require the treating as superfluous the new words of
enumeration concerning pension matters which the amendatory
act expressed. This follows, because if the adding by way of
amendment of the words "orof the Secretary of the Interior"
contemplated bringing within the criminal inhibitions of the
statute every act of a like nature to those forbidden done in
connection with every subject within the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Interior, then the new enumerations made
in the amendment were wholly unnecessary, because without
enumeration they would have been embraced in the statute
as amended. Indeed, if the 'purpose 'intended to be accomplished by the amendment had been to embrace all acts of the
prohibited nature as to every subject within the jurisdiction
of the -Secretary of the Interior, no reason can be suggested
why the new legislation should have taken the form of a mere
amendment to the section of the statutes which was alone
concerned with pension and bounty land claims. Construing the statute as relating only to the subject of pension and
bounty land claims coming within the authority of the Commissioner of Pensions or the Secretary of the Interior, it follows that a violation of its provisions could not arise from
the acts charged in the indictment concerning the coal land
entries.
Finally we come to the two contentions of the Government
which we have hitherto temporarily put aside, and to the
various contentions on the part of the defendants in error,
insisting either that the court below misconstrued the indictment, or that there were such defects in the indictment that
it was rightly quashed, irrespective of the construction of the
statutes which led the court below to do so. But we do not
think we 'have jurisdiction on this writ of error to consider
these questions. The right of the United States to come di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

rectly to this court because of the construction of the statutes
by the court below, as we have previously said in considering
the question of jurisdiction, issolely derived from the act of
,1907, the text of which is printed in the margin. 1 That act,
we think, plainly shows that 'in
:giving to the United States
the right to invoke the authority of this court by direct writ
of error in the cases for which it provides contemplates vesting
this court with jurisdiction only to review the particular question decided by the court below for which the statute provides.
In other words, that the purpose of the statute was to give
the United States the right to seek a review of decisions of
the lower court concerning the subjects embraced within the
clauses of the statute, and not to open here the whole case.
1 CHAP. 2564.-An Act Providing for writs of error in certain instances

in criminal cases.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That a writ of error may be
taken by and on behalf of the United States from the District or Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court of the United States in all
criminal cases, in the following instances, to wit:
"From a decision or judgment quashing, setting aside, or sustaining
a demurrer to, any indictment, or any count thereof, where such decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity, or construction of the
statute upon which the indictment is founded.
"From a decision arresting a judgment of conviction for insufficiency
of the indictment, where such decision is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment, is founded.
"From the decision. or judgment sustaining a special plea in bar,
when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy.
"The writ of error in all such cases shall be taken within thirty days
after the decision or judgment has been rendered and shall be diligently
prosecuted and shall have precedence over all other cases.
"Pending the prosecution and determination of the writ of error in
the foregoing instances, the defendant shall be admitted to bail on his
own recognizance: Provided, That no writ of error shall be taken by
or allowed the United States in any case where there has been a verdict
in favor of the defendant.
" Approved, March 2, 1907." (34 Stat. 1246.)

UNITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
211 U. S.

1 396

Syllabus.

We think this conclusion arises not only because the giving
of the exceptional right to review in favor of the United Stat
is limited by the very terms of the statute to Iauthority to reexamine the particular decisions which the statute embraces,
but also because of the whole, context, which clearly indicites that the purpose was to confine the right given Ao'a
review 'of the decisions enumerated in the statute, leaving
all other questions to be controlled by the general mode of
procedure governing the same. It follows from what.we have
said that the court erred in its construction of the statutes
by which it quashed the first count of the indictment, and
that from a rightful construction of the statutes no error was
committed in quashing the second count. The order, therefore,' quashing the first count is reversed and that quashing
the second count is affirmed, and the case is
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. FORRESTER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 287.

Argued October 22, 23, 26, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, followed; the rule therein stated as
to fraudulent entries of coal lands under §§ 2347-2350, Rev. Stat.,
by qualified persons for the benefit, and as agents of, disqualified
persons, applies not only to cash entries, but also to entries under
preferential rights by persons opening and developing mines on the
lands entered.
The preferential right under §§ 2348, 2349, Rev. Stat., is not in and of
itself the equivalent of an entry uncontrolled by the prohibitions
expressed in the statutes relating to entries of coal lands, but is simply

