OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

diction upon direct appeal. Sloan v. United States, 193 U. S.
614, 620, and cases cited; United States ex rel. Taylor v. Taft,
Secretary, 203 U. S. 461.
Undoubtedly Congress, without violating any constitutional
provision, could have in terms directed exactly what was prescribed by the Treasury regulations; and prior decisions have
held that the statute was properly construed by the Secretary.
We concur with counsel for the Government that if the
construction' or application of the Constitution of the United
States, within the meaning of § 5, act of 1891, is involved in
every case where one claims that according to his interpretation of a statute excessive duty or tax has been demanded
by executive officers, the provisions of that act making decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals in revenue cases final
are of very limited value, and this court must entertain direct
appeals from the Circuit Courts in most tariff and tax controversies, which we regard as out of the question.
Appeal dismissed.

COTTON v. TERRITORY OF HAWAII, BY HOLLOWAY,
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.

No. 7.

Argued October 27, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

The elementary rule, that the power of this court to review judgments

under § 709, Rev. Stat., and under statutes relating to review of
judgments from territorial 'courts extends only to final judgments,
also governs appeals from the Supreme Court of Hawaii under § 86
of the act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, 31'Stat. 141, 158, and the amendatory act of March 3, 1905, c. 1465, 33 Stat. 1035.

The power of this court to review the judgments of courts of the Territories depends upon acts of Congress and cannot be extended by.

territorial legislation.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in this case, overruling

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

exceptions and reversing order for new trial, were based on bill of
exception which did not bring up the whole record, were not under
the practice of Hawaii ;inal judgments, and are not reviewable by
this court.
Writ of error to review 17 Hawaii, 618, dismissed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. William B. Matthews
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The order on exceptions was a final judgment.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Hawaii upon defendants' bill of exceptions, the last sentence of which is "the exceptions are overruled," was rendered and filed in the clerk's
-office on September 27, 1906.
The question, what amounts to a judgment, is, of course,
one of local practice. If by accepted usage in Hawaii, or in
the Supreme Court of the Territory, such a minute entry as
appears in this record is regarded as a judgment, then that
entry, however meager or technically irregular, may, and
should be accepted as a judgment of that court, and the'writ
will lie.
A judgment which the supreme court of a State holds to
be a final judgment can hardly be considered in any other
light by this court. Belmont Bridge v. Wheeling Bridge, 138
U. S. 287; Tippecanoe Co. v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108.
Independently of any peculiar local practice, and as a
principle, of the general law, the entry of September 27, 1906,
is the entry of a judgment, though never drawn out into the
formal words of a judgment.
The judgment, being the act of the court, and the substantial thing, of which the expanded entry is mere form and dress,
becomes a judgment when it is pronounced and directed to
be recorded, or, at all events, so soon as the first notation is
made. The date of the judgment is that of the minute entry.
It is then immediately executionable, unless otherwise provided by statute. All rights of the parties depend upon and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

211 U. S.

relate to the original minute and not to the later formal dntry.
Freeman on Judgments, 4th ed., §§ 38, 40.
The action ,of the clerk, being non-judicial, may be at any
time afterward. The usual custom, perhaps, is for him to
wait for leisure moments to perform that duty. In many cases
the record is not completed until after the adjournment of the
term. This practice seems to have prevailed at common law.
Casement v. Ringgold, 28 California, 335; McMillan v. Richards,
12 California, 467.
It is, therefore, imniaterial whether or not the judgment is
ever spread out upon the formal minutes. The neglect of the
clerk is the neglect of a purely ministerial duty which does not
at all impair the validity of the judgment. In some States no
record is ever made up. Such is, or at one time was, the usage
in Maryland and Pennsylvania, and it was so formerly in the
District of Columbia. In such jurisdictions the files and journal entries stand in place of the record, and memoranda indicating the rendition of judgments are treated as judgments.
Packet Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 340; Cromwell v. Bank, 2 Wall.
Jr. 569; Boteler v. State, 8 Gill. & J. 381; Ruggles v. Alexander,
2 Rawle, 232; Freeman on Judgments, §86.
The judgment on new trial is reviewable in this court. The
action of the Territorial Supreme Court whereby it undertook
to reverse Judge Gear's order of new trial was taken by the
entry of a formal judgment.
Orders granting or denying new trials, while generally not
the subjects of error, may be reviewed and reversed inerror
when they are void as being beyond the jurisdiction of. the
court assurnihg to make them. Hume v. Bowie, 148 U. S.245;
Coughlin v. District of Columbia, 106 U. S. 7.
And such an order may be revised in error when it appears
that the lower court in acting upon the motion for a new trial
proceeded upon an erroneous theory of its powers and duties
in the matter or upon incorrect principles' of evidence and
practice. Metropolitan R. R. Co. v. Moore, 121 U. S. 358;
Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S.140.

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In this case the court held, as a matter of general law and
local practice, that the order of a trial court upon a motion
for new trial is discretionary and cannot be revised in error.
The action of the Territorial Supreme Court in reversing
the order for new trial was beyond its authority because its
appellate jurisdiction was invoked too late and was attempted
to be exercised after the time to which it was limited by statute; and, because the order of new trial was, by reason of its
nature and because it was an order of new trial, not within
the appellate jurisdiction, but altogether within the discretion
of the trial court;. and also because the Territorial Supreme
Court erred in holding that the order was void and therefore
excepted from the general rule of the subject.
Whether the Supreme Court of the Territory was right or
wrong in its view of the order of new trial, its judgment reversing that order is reviewable in this court.
Mr. Charles R. Hemenway, Attorney General of the Territory
of Hawaii, for defendant in error:
Upon a bill of exceptions only certain specific rulings are
made the direct'subject of review and only so much of the
record comes before the appellate court as is necessary t6 pass
upon such rulings. The decision is usually that the exceptions
be sustained or overruled, and that such further proceedings
be had as this ruling may require. The decision of the Supreme
Court of Hawaii upon a bill of exceptions cannot be a final
judgment in the sense that such judgment is the final act determining the rights and liabilities of the parties. The overruling of the exceptions in this case necessarily left the record
in the condition in which it was prior to the allowance of the
bill. Therefore, the judgment formally entered in the Circuit
Court stood and stands as the final adjudication of the questions at issue between the parties.
The Territory now submits that only this judgment, to wit,
the judgment entered in the Circuit Court, can properly be
made the subject of a writ of error from this court, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

by the writ now before the court the questions adjudicated
below are not presented for review.
The practice in Hawaii as to exceptions is similar to that
in Massachusetts and the other States where bills of exceptions
bring up to the appellate court for review certain specific
rulings only, and do Rnot bring up the entire case including the
final judgment rendered. In such States writs of error from
this court have run to the court where the final judgment was
entered. Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143; Worts v. Hoagland,
105 U. S. 702; Polley v. Black River Improvement Co., 113
U. S.83; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 269; McDonald v.
Massachusetts, 180 U. S.311; Rothschild v. Knight, 184 U. S.
334.
A judgment to be final within the meaning of the acts-of
Congress, giving this court jurisdiction on writs of error over
such judgments, must terminate the litigation between the
parties on the merits of the case so that if this court affirms
such judgment, the court below would have nothing to do but
to carry it into effect. Bostwick v. Brinkerhof, 106 U. S.3;
Macfarland v. Brown, 187 U. S. 287.
Therefore the decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii
based upon bills of exceptions brought before such court cannot properly be made the subject of writs of error from this
court.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned are directed to the action of the court
below on two subjects. Jurisdiction to consider them is challenged by thre defendant in error. To understand the question
as to jurisdiction and the issues which it will be necessary to
consider, if it be that we have power to decide the merits,
requires us to state briefly proceedings which are referred to by
both parties and which are embraced in the printed transcript,
without determining at this moment how far all the proceedings thus to be referred to may be considered as properly embraced in the record in the legal sense.

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On May 27, 1904, as the result of a trial before a jury of
an action brought by the Territory of Hawaii to recover damages for the loss of a dredge boat belonging to the Territory,
through the negligence of the defendants (who are now plaintiffs in error), there Was a verdict in favor of the Territory'
for the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars. On May 31,
1904, the defendants filed a motion for new trial, and gave
notice that it would be called for a hearing on June 3. On that
date the motion was continued to June 7. On June 7 the
Territory objected to the court entertaining the motion because the defendants had not complied with § 1805, Revised
Laws of Hawaii, requiring that the party against whom a
verdict or judgment had been rendered should, as a prerequisite to moving for a new trial, "file within tepi days after rendition of verdict or judgment" a bond securing the payment
of costs, and conditioned against the removal or disposition
of any property within the jurisdiction subject to execution.
The defendants thereupon asked further time. to file the bond.
On the same day the court entered a formal judgment on the
verdict, and also granted, over the exception of the plaintiff,
the request of the defendants for further time to make and
file the bond. The court was of the opinion that the statutory period commenced to run only from the date of the entry
of judgment on the verdict. The bond was filed on June 7,
the motion for a new trial was renewed on the same day, and
was ultimately taken under advisement. The plaintiff, reserving the benefit of its exception as to the power of the court
to consider the motion, agreed that the motion might be passed
upon in vacation. Meanwhile the defendants presented and
filed a summary' bill of exceptions relating to certain errors
which it Was alleged had been committed by the court during
the trial. In February following the judge who presided at
the trial, and who was detained in San Francisco by sickness,
telegraphed the clerk of the court that he granted the motion for a'new trial, and had forwarded his grounds for doing
so by mail. This telegram was filed by the clerk. The term

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

of office of the judge expired on March 2, 1905. A few days
thereafter, viz., on March 4, 1905, the clerk received by mail
the opinion of the judge stating his reasons for granting a new
trial, which opinion was also filed. In the following April the
defendants moved the court then presided over by the successor in office of the judge who had tried the cause to make
a formal entry of the granting of the new trial, and this was
done over the objection and exception of the plaintiff, who
thereupon prosecuted a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Hawaii. The Supreme Court, after overruling a motion to
quash the writ, based on the ground that the action of the
court in granting a new trial was not reviewable (17 Hawaii,
374), on March 8, 1906, reversed the order granting a new
trial. Putting out of view all other questions, in substance,
it was held that the filing of the bond within ten days as required by the statute was essential to give the court jurisdiction to entertain a motion for a new trial, and that the court
lad mistakenly decided that the ten days began to run only
from the date of formal entry of the judgment. 17 Hawaii,
445.

The formal judgment entered in the Supreme Court was
simply one reversing the order for a new trial. Thereupon
in the trial court the defendants moved to be allowed to make
the summary bill of exceptions which they had previously
taken more specific. Over the objection of the plaintiff this
was allowed to be done, and the defendants thereupon filed
an amended bill of exceptions, which was allowed, and upon
this bill, conformably to the Hawaiian practice, the exceptions
were taken by the defendants to the Supreme Court of Hawaii.
In that court a motion was made to quash the bill of exceptions,
on the ground that as amended it embraced matters not legally included within the bill as originally filed, and which
were in consequence not cognizable. This motion was overruled, on the ground that although nothing was open for review on the amended bill but such questions as were legally
incorporated in the original bill, the bill as amended could

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not be quashed, as it undoubtedly presented matters which
were embraced in the first or summary bill. 17 Hawaii, 608,
645. Thereafter on the hearing of the exceptions the courtexcluding from consideration such matters as it held were not
contained in the original bill, although incorporated in the
amended bill-decided that the exceptions were without
merit. 17 Hawaii, 618. Conformably to the opinion an order
was entered in the minutes on September 27, 1906, overruling
the exceptions. Thereupon the present writ of error was allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The two subjects to which, as at the outset we stated, all
the assignments of error relate involve the. correctness of the
action of the Supreme Court on September 27, 1906, in refusing to consider certain of the exceptions because deemed
not to have been embodied in the summary bill previously
filed and its decision on the exceptions which were passed upon,
and the correctness of the action of the same court, taken
nearly six months previously, reversing the order of the trial
court granting a new trial. Have we jurisdiction to pass upon
these issues, is the first question for decision.
Our authority to review the jidgments of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Hawaii is derived from the act of
April 30, 1900, c. 339, § 86, 31 Stat. 141, 158, and the amendatory act of March 3, 1905, c. 1465, § 3, 33 Stat. 1035. In
the first act jurisdiction is conferred over judgments or decrees
of the Supreme Court of the Territory only in cases like unto
those where we would be empowered to review the judgments
or decrees of the courts of the several States, conferred by
§ 709, Rev. Stat. By the amendatory act our jurisdiction
was extended so as to embrace, in addition, all cases, irrespective of the nature of the questions presented, where the
amount involved, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value
of fiye thousand dollars. In other words, Whilst the first act
conferred'the power only in cases where it would exist if the
decree or judgment had been rendered in a state court, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

second, adopting the principle and necessarily therefore carrying with it the rules generally prevailing as to the review of
judgments or decrees of the supreme courts of the incorporated.
Territories of the United States, gives an additional right to
review, depending solely upon the amount involved. Bierce v.
HutchiMs, 205 U. S. 340, 344. As jurisdiction, if it exists in
this cause, depends not upon the existence of questions under
Rev. Stat.,. § 709, but entirely upon the amount involved,
the authority conferred by the act of 1900 may be at once
put out of view.
It is elementary, however, that the power to review both
under § 709, Rev. Stats., and under the laws governing the
right to review the judgments or decrees of the supreme courts
of the incorporated Territories generally, extends only to final
judgments or decrees. It is apparent, therefore, that we have
no jurisdiction to review the several rulings of the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the last one in September, 1906, overruling the exceptions, and the prior one in April, 1906, reversing the order granting a new trial, unless those rulings,
independently considered, are final in the full sense of the term.
Let us test their finality separately.
On its face the proceeding by which the exceptions of the
defendants were taken to the court of last resort in Hawaii
for review did not purport to present tQ that court a consideration of the whole record in the cause, but only suhmitted the
particular rulings embraced in the exceptions. The order
which the court entered when it disposed of the exceptions was
neither in substance nor did it purport in form to be a final
judgment conclusively disposing of the cause. As our power
to review depends upon the acts of Congress, which it is beyond the authority of a Territory by forms of legal procedure
to modify or change, it results that whatever may be the
forms of procedure prevailing in the Territory for the review
of judgments or decrees, nothing in the territorial laws or
procedure can, have the effect of conferring -upon this court
the power to consider causes coming from the Territory by

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

piecemeal; that is, to review judgments or decrees which in
their essential nature are not final within the intendment of
the. legislation of Congress-in other words, extend our jurisdiction to judgments which do not completely dispose of the
controversy. But the application of this latter principle is not
now required, since it will appear from a review of the territorial legislation that the decision of the Supreme Court overruling the exceptions was not under the territorial laws in
any sense a final judgment. The relevant Hawaiian statutes
are copied in the margin.'
It is clear that under these statutes the Supreme Court may
I Revised Laws of Hawaii for 1905, c. 123, p. 732, et seq.:
"EXCEPTIONS.

"SEC. 1862. QUESTIONs RESERVED BY CouRT.-Whenever any question of law shall arise in any trial or other proceeding before a circuit
court, the presiding judge may reserve the same for the consideration
of the supreme court; and'in such case shall report the cause, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to a full understanding of the questions, to the supreme court. (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 72; C. L. s. 1436.)
"SEC. 1863. RESERVED ON MOTION.-Any question may be reserved in like manner upon the motion of either party, on account of
any opinion, direction, instruction, rulir*g or order of the judge in any
matter of law. (L. 1892, c. 57, s.73; C.L. s. 1437.)"
Following a paragraph prescribing the method of settlink exceptions, it is provided in § 1864 as follows:
"Bills of exceptions upon like terms as to filing bond and payment
of costs, may be certified to the supreme court from decisions overruling demurrers or from other interlocutory orders, decisions or judgments, whenever the judge in his discretion, may think the same advisable for a more speedy termination of the case. The refusal of
the judge to certify an interlocutory bill of exceptions to the supreme
court shall not be reviewable by any other court. (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 74;
C. L. s. 1438; am. L. 1898, c. 40, s. 2; am. L. 1903, c. 32, s. 18.)"
"SEC. 1865. BOND.-Upon the allowance of such bill of exceptions
and the deposit of twenty-five dollars, or a bond of the same amount,.
by the party excepting with the clerk of such court, for costs to accrue
in the supreme court, the questions arising thereon shall be considered
by the sulreme court; but judgment may be entered and may be enforced or arrested pending such exceptions as provided in section 1861

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

review the action of the trial courts by two separate forms of
procedure, either by writ of error or appeal, which brings up
the judgment or decree with the entire record, and the other
by exceptions, which does not bring up the whole record and
calls upon the reviewing court merely to pass upon specific
questions raised by the bill. The statutes, it will be observed,
confer no express power upon the Supreme Court of the Territory to enter a final judgment in a cause upon the overruling
of exceptions, and, indeed, that the Supreme Court of the
Territory does not construe the territorial statutes as giving
it such authority, and, therefore, that the court could not
have intended to exert such power in this case so conclusively
appears from recent decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii
as to leave the question not open to controversy.
Meheula v. Pioneer Mill Co., 17 Hawaii, 91, was brought
in the case of an appeal, mutatis mutandis: (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 75;
C. L. s. 1439; am. L. 1903, c. 32. s. 19.)
upon
"SEC. 1866. ExCEPTIONS, FRIVOLOUS, IMMATERIAL.-When,
the hearing of a cause brought before the supreme court upon exceptions, it shall appear that the exceptions are frivolous or immaterial,
or were intended for delay, the court may award against the party
taking the exceptions, double costs from the time when the same were
alleged; and also interest, from the same time, at the rate of nine per
cent per annum on the sum, if any, found due for debt or damages;
or may award any part of such additional costs and interest as it may
deem proper. (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 76; C. L. s. 1440.)
"SEC.'1867. VACATING JUDGMENT BY SUPREME COURT.-When judgment has been entered in any cause in which exceptions have been
allowed, the judgment may be vacated by 'the supreme court without
any writ of error in like manner as if it had been entered by mistake,
and thereupon such further proceedings shall be had in the cause as
to law and justice shall appertain. (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 77; C. L. s. 1441.)
"SEc. 1868. JURY TRIAL NOT DELAYED.-No trial by jury-shall be
prevented or delayed by the alleging, filing or allowance of such exceptions; but the verdict shall be received and such further proceedings shall be had in the cause as the court may order, in pursuance of
the foregoing provisions., (L. 1892, c. 57, s. 78; C. L. s. 1442.)
"WRITS

"SEC. 1869.

OF ERROR.

HAD WHEN.-A writ of error may be had by any party

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the appellate court on exceptions. The exceptions were
overruled. Thereupon counsel for the unsuccessful party, in
order that the record might be in such form as to permit an
appeal to this court, moved in the appellate court that a final
judgment be entered affirming the judgment of the trial court
and remanding the cause with directions to carry the judgment into execution. The motion was denied. The court
rendered a, lengthy opinion, in the course of which it was said
(17 Hawaii, 93):
"If the exceptions are overruled nothing further is required but to notify the Circuit Court, in the form of a remittitur. . . . A bill of exceptions, unlike a writ of error
or an appeal, does not bring the entire case or its record to
this court. We have merely to decide whether the exceptions
are good or bad. If they are overruled, that is the end of the
functions of this court relating thereto, nothing remaining
but the order, notice, or remittitur, on receipt of which the
deeming himself aggrieved by the decision of any justice, judge or
magistrate, or by the decision of any court except in the supreme
court, or by the verdict of a jury, at any time before execution thereon
is fully satisfied, within six months from the rendition of judgment.
(L. 1892, c. 95, s. 1; C. L. s. 1443.)
"SEC. 1870. IN JURY WAIVED CASES.-Writs of error shall lie to
any decision or ruling by a judge in any case in which jury has been
waived. (L. 1892, c. 95, s. 2; C. L. s. 1444.)
"SEc. 1871. To CORRECT WHA.-A writ of error may be had to
correct any error appearing on the record, either of law or fact, or for
any cause which might be assigned as error at common law; provided,
however, that no writ of error shall issue for any defect of form meyely
in any declaration, nor for any matter held for the benefit of the plaintiff in error. (L. 1892, c. 95, s. 3; C. L. s. 1445.)
"SEC. 1872. No REVERSAL WHEN.-There shall be no reversal on
error of any finding depending on the credibility of witnesses or the
weight of evidence. (L. 1892, c. 95, s. 5; C. L. s. 1447.)
"SEc. 1873. RECORD.-For all purposes of sections 1869-1883 the
record shall be deemed to include all pleadings, motions, notes or bills
of exceptions, exhibits, clerk's or magistrate's notes of proceedings.
and, if so desired by the plaintiffs in error, a transcript of the evidence
in the case. (L. 1892, c. 95, s. 4; C. L. s. 1446.)"

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

judgment in the Circuit Court if it had been entered but suspended pending the exceptions by the provisions of sections
1861 and 1865, R. L., remains in full force, requiring no
affitmance or other recognition from this court. If no judgment was entered on the verdict it is entered by the Circuit
Court upon notice of the overruling of the exceptions. This
result follows as a matter of law and not in consequence of
any direction of this court."
In the same case the court also took occasion to condemn
the practice stated to be sometimes followed, of sending to
the appellate court, with a bill of exceptions, "the records of
the case and all papers filed in the Circuit Court."
So, also, as also said by the territorial court in this case,
in passing upon the motion of the Territory to quash or dismiss the exceptions (17 Hawaii, 374, 379):
"Exceptions and error are inherently proceedings of different
character. On exceptions, various specific rulings, whether
interlocutory or final, whether brought up immediately or only
after final judgment, are made direct and independent subjects for review; only so much of the record is brought here as
is necessary for passing upon the specific exceptions; the decision usually is that the exceptions be sustained or overruled
and that such further proceedings be had as the rulings on the
exceptions call for. On error the final judgment alone is brought
up, and specific rulings, whether excepted to or not, are considered only incidentally in passing upon the correctness of
the final judgment; the entire record is brought up, and the
judgment of the appellate court is such as the facts and law
warrant as shown by the entire case."
Applying the construction thus given by the Supreme Court
of Hawaii to the statutes of the Territory, there being no
.reason to doubt its correctness, it clearly follows that the
mere entry by the clerk, on the minutes, of the decision of the
court overruling the exceptions did not constitute a final
judgment subject to review by this court. Of course, our decision is confined to the case before us. We must not there-

COTTON v. HAWAII.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore be considered as holding that if, on a case before it on
exceptions, the Supreme Court of the Territory in sustaining
exceptions considered that the effect of its ruling was such
as to justify the entry of a judgment finally disposing of the
cause under the discretionary power conferred by § 1867 of the
Revised Laws of Hawaii, previously cited in the margin, that
such a judgment, depending upon the circumstances of the case,
might not be a final judgment within our competency to
review.
Coming then to test whether we have jurisdiction to review
the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory reversing
the order granting a new trial, it is apparent that our power
must rest either upon the proposition that the order overruling the gTanting of a new trial was a final judgment in an
independent proceeding or was but an interlocutory step in
the cause, which would be subject to our review, because of
jurisdiction to revise the action of the territorial court in
ruling on the exceptions, under the assumption that such
ruling was a final judgment. The latter is disposed of by
what we have previously said. As to the former, if the premise
upon which the proposition rests be assumed it would follow
that we are without power to review the judgment, for the
reason that this writ is directed alone to the so-called judgment of September 27, 1906, and the record of that judgment
cannot be regarded as embracing the proceedings had below
in respect to the matter of a new trial.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

