MILLER & LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

be imagined, are signal illustrations of the importance of observing the boundaries between the judicial and legislative
field, and of the confusion and injury which would follow from
the failure to respect those boundaries. Nothing is decided as
to the power of the courts to review the action of the Superintendent or Governor.
In our opinion, the injunction which was issued in this case,
constituting in substance a regulation of the operation of the
railway, was, in the first place, not within the limits of the
judicial power, and, in the second place, totally inconsistent
with the power of regulation vested unmistakably by the
legislature in the executive authorities.
Decree reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

MILLER & LUX, INCORPORATED, v. EAST SIDE CANAL
& IRRIGATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 518.

Submitted October 13, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.

While jurisdiction of the Circuit Court exists even if complainant's
motive in acquiring citizenship was to invoke that jurisdiction,
the citizenship must be real and actually acquired with the purpose of establishing a permanent domiciL Morris v. qilmer, 129
U. S. 315.
Where the complainant corporation was organized for the sole purpose of invoking the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and any decree in its favor would be really under the control, and for the benefit,
of another corporation of the same State as defendant, the suit
should be dismissed as one in which the complainant was collusively
instituted before the proper tribunal to have the franchise granted by
this chapter and all rights and privileges granted hereunder, forfeited
and declared null and void."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

211 U. S.

so organized for the purpose of creating a ease cognizable in the
Circuit Court within the meaning of §5 of the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, 472. Lehigh Mining & Manufacturing Co.
v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward F. Treadwell for appellant:
The mere fact (if it be a fact) that complainant was formed
and this property transferred to it for the purpose of conferring
jurisdiction upon the °Federal courts, can in no way affect the
jurisdiction of those courts. Dickerman V. Northern Trust Co.,
176 U. S. 181, 191; McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet. 620; Smith
v. Kernochen, .7 How. 198, 216; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall.
280; Moris .v.Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315, 328; Cross V. Allen, 141
U. ,S.
52,8,53; Crawford v. Neal, 144 U. S. 585; Lake County
Commisswners v. Dudley, 173 U. S. 243, 254; South Dakota
v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286, 310; Blair v. Chicago, 201
Y S. 400, 448; Briggs v. French, Fed. Cas. No. 1,871; Case
v. Clarke, Fed. Cas. No. 2,490; Van Dolsen
v. New York, 17
Fed. Rep. 817; Neal v. Foster, 36 Fed. Rep. 29, 41; Ashley v.
Supervisors, 83 Fed. Rep. 534, 537; Woodside v. Ciceroni, 93
Fed. Rep. 1; Collins v. Ashland, 112 Fed. Rep. 175, 178;
*Adams v. Shirk, 117 Fed. Rep. 801, 805; Cole v. Ry. Co., 140
Fed. Rep. 944, 946.
The transfer to the Nevada corporation was upon a valuable
consideration, ana consequently no trust resulted in favor of
the California corporation. 15 Am. & Eng. Ency.. of Law,
2d ed., p. 1125; St. John v. Benedict, 6 John Ch. N. Y. 111;
Civil Code 6f Cal., § 1614.
The dissolution or non-dissolution of the California corporation is entirely immaterial.
The recital in the agreement that the stock of the Nevada
corporation could not be distributed to the stockholders of the
California corporation prior to dissolution correctly states the
law. Kohl v. Lilienthal, 81 California, 378.
The provision, also, that the voting power of the stock should

MILLER & LUX v.EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

295

Argument for Appellee.

be separated from the legal title and vested in the stockholders
of the California corporation is entirely valid under the law
of the State of California. Smith v. S. F. & N. P. Ry. Co.,
115 California, 584.
It follows from this that the California corporation was as
effectually eliminated as if it had been absolutely dissolved.
The transfer to the Nevada corporation was an absolute one,
without any understanding, express or implied, that the property should ever be reconveyed, and the case of Lehigh Min.&
Mfg. Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327, has no application to such a
transfer.
It matters not how closely related two corporations may be,
nor what similarity there may be in names, incorporators,
stockholders, officers and purposes, they will be considered
distinct so far as Federal jurisdiction is concerned. Louisville
Co. v. Louisville, 174 U. S. 552, 563; St. Louis v. James, 161
U. S. 545, 559; Lehigh M. & M. Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327,
347; Nashua & L. R. Corp. v. R. Corp., 136 U. S. 356, 373;
Muller v. Dows, 94 U. S. 444; Goodwin v. New York &c. Co.,
124 Fed. Rep. 358, 364; Missouri Pac. Ry. v. Meeh, 69 Fed.
Rep. 753, 755; Farnhamv. Canal Corp., 1 Sumn. 46, 62; S. C.,
Fed. Cas. No. 4,675; Racine Co. v. FarmersCo., 49 Illinois, 331.
Mr. James F. Peck and Mr. Frederic D. MeKenney, for appellee:
The Circuit Court properly disregarded the superficial aspect
of complainant as a separate and distinct corporation. In
determining the jurisdictional question it had the right to look
through the web of the artificial corporate entity and find the
real parties in interest. Oriental Investment Co. v. Barclay, 25
Tex. Civ. App. 558; Venner v. Great Northern Co., 209 U. S.24;
Lehigh Mining &c. Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327.
The interests of the California corporation in the Nevada
corporation, this complainant, are exclusive and supreme.
The two dorporations are so identical in every material inci'l nu 'hat the suit is not really and substantially between

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

citizens of different States. Lehigh Mining &c. Co. v. Kelly,
160 U. S. 327, 340; Waite v. Santa Cruz, 184 U. S. 325.
The pretended change of corporate residence was made for
the purpose of creating a case for Federal jurisdiction, ahd the
lands and water rights in dispute were conveyed to the Nevada
corporation for that purpose. The Circuit Court was justified
by the evidence in finding that fact.
There can be little, if any, doubt that the removal was not
with a bona fide intention of changing the corporate domicil.
Butler v. Farnsworth,4 Wash. C. C. 101, 103; Morris v. Gilmer,
129 U. S. 328, 329; Lehigh Mining &c. Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S.
327-340.
So far as Fedcral jurisdiction is concerned, and for jurisdictional purposes in a case like this, the citizenship of the
California corporation of Miller & Lux determines the question
of Federal jurisdiction in this case. Goodwin v. Boston & M.
R. R., 127 Fed. Rep. 986, 989.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

'This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of California by "Miller &
Lux, Incorporated," a corporation of Nevada, against the
East Side Canal & Irrigation Company, a corporation of
California.
The case is here upon a certificate under the act of Congress
-of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, relating.to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as affected by § 5 of the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, 472. That section provides that if,
in any stit ,ommenced in a Circuit Court or removed from a
state court to a Circuit Court of the United States, it shall
appear at any"time to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court that
such suit "does not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy 'properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit
Court, or that. the parties to said suit have been improperly or
collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants,

MILLER & LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable
under this act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further
therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court
from which it was removed as justice may require, and shall
make such order as to costs as shall be just; but the order of
said Circuit Court dismissing or remanding said cause to the
state court shall be reviewable by the Supreme Court on writ
of error or appeal, as the case may be."
In stating the 'object and scope of that act this court in
Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209, 211, referred to the act
of 1875 and said: "In extending a long way the jurisdiction
of the- courts of the United States, Congress was specially careful to guard against the consequences of collusive transfers
to make parties, and imposed the duty on the court, on its
own motion, without waiting for the parties, to stop all further
proceedings and dismiss the suit the moment anything.of the
kind appeared. This was for the protection of the court as
well as parties against frauds upon its jurisdiction; for as was
very properly said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court,
in Barney, v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 288, such transfers for
such purposes are frauds upon the court, and nothing more."
In the answer of the defendant it is alleged that Miller &
.Lux, Incorporated, -was organized as a corporation in Nevada,
but to act only as an agent of "Miller & Lux," a corporation
'of California; that the' California corporation was the owner of
all the capital stock of Miller & Lux, Incorporated, which as a
corporation had no existence except as a mere agency of Miller & Lux, the California corporation; that all the property
held by the plaintiff was as such agent in order that suits could
be brought and prosecuted in the United States courts; and
that the plaintiff does not transact any business or do any act
or thing other than such as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of the California corporation, "except to hold title
to property for the purpose of prosecuting suits in the United States courts."
To these alleg4tions the plaintiff made special replication,

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

evidence was taken as to their truth and the cause was submitted upon the issue thus made. The court found the allegation in the answer to be true; that the complainant held the
title to the lands described in the bill for the purpose only of
prosecuting and commencing this action in the Circuit Court
of the United States, and that the lands were conveyed to
plaintiff for that purpose; and it appearing to the satisfaction
of the court that the Nevada corporation had been collusively
made a party plaintiff for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by the Circuit Court of the United States, and that the
suit did not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction of that court, the bill was
dismissed.
It was established by the evidence and the court found as
follows:
Henry Miller and Charles Lux were partners prior to and up
to the death of Lux, one of the parties, which occurred March 15,
1887.
In April, 1897, the heirs of the deceased partner and Miller,
the surviving partner, wishing to have the partnership business liquidated and its assets distributed among those entitled
thereto, made an agreement to form a corporation under the
laws of California and transfer to it all the property of the
partnership, each person to receive in lieu thereof capital stock
proportioned to his interest in the partnership. Pursuant to
that agreement the corporation of "Miller & Lux" was organized in California on the fifth day of May, 1897; to it was conveyed the property of the partnership and the stock of the corporation was distributed as provided in -the agreement.
On the seventeenth day of December, 1900, the California corporation of Miller & Lux commenced an action in the Superior
Court of Merced County, California, against the present defendant the East Side Canal & Irrigation Company, a California corporation. The object of that suit was to. have the latter corporation perpetually enjoined from obstructing the natural flow of
the waters of San Joaquin River and its branches, along 'and

MILLER & LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bordering on which the California corporation of Miller & Lux
claimed certain lands, as well as from interfering with the
waters of that river, above those lands and to their injury.
On the twelfth day of June, 105-the above suit in the state
court still being on the docket-the California corporation and
the stockholders owning more than two-thirds of its capital
stock, entered into an agreement that they would at once form a
corporation under the laws of Nevada with an authorized capital of $12,000,000-all of such capital stock to be issued and be
deemed fully paid up-each director of the California corporation of Miller & Lux to be an incorporator of the Nevada
corporation and to subscribe two shares of such capital stock
to be issued as fully paid up stock of the new corporation.
That agreement stated that the laws of California were unsatisfactory and in many particulars uncertain and unsettled,
"particularly as to dividends, a matter of the most vital importance to us, and as to which litigation is now pending and
undetermined." These difficulties, it was said, did not exist
to the same extent under the laws of Nevada.. Among the
reasons assigned in the agreement for the formation of the
Nevada corporation was the belief, on the part of the stockholders of the California corporatioh, that their rights in litigated cases would be "most fully protected and conserved
in the Federal courts, to which corporations formed in other
States are entitled to resort."
The above agreement provided that upon the formation of
the Nevada corporation all the property, real and personal,
of the California corporation should be transferred and conveyed to the Nevada corporation, and that the capital stock
of the latter corporation should be issued as fully paid up stock
to the California corporation; and that after such transfer and
conveyance were completed, and as soon as the law would
permit, the California corporation should be dissolved by
voluntary proceedings under the State Code of Civil Procedure
of that State.
On the same dayi June 12, 1905, the parties to that agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ment signed and acknowledged articles of incorporation for
the proposed Nevada corporation of "Miller & Lux, Incorporated." All the capital stock of that corporation was issued to
the California corporation. The directors of the California
corporation became and are also the directors of the Nevada
corporation. Each company had the same President, VicePresident, Secretary and Treasurer, and offices at the same
place. "Said corporation," it was found, "are the same in
name purposes, capitalization, directors, officers, office and
place of business."
On the fifteenth day of June, i905, the California corporation
of Miller & Lux directed the dismissal of the suit brought in the
state court. And on the same day the present suit was brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States in the name of the
Nevada corporation against the East Side Canal & Irrigation
Company. The relief sought was substantially the same as
that sought in the suit instituted in the state court.
Process in the suit brought in the Circuit Court by the Nevada corporation was served on June 17, 1905, and on the same
day the California corporation formally dismissed its suit in
the state court.
The California corporation had not been dissolved nor. had
it ceased to exist when the present suit was brought by the
Nevada corporation. It was then in existence, with all of its
-powers unmodified. And it does not appear that any steps
had or have been taken to disincorporate the California corporation. Nor can'it be said when, if ever, that corporation will
be dissolved.
We are of opinion that the court below did not err in dismissing the suit. The question raised by the record is substantially the same as that determined in Lehigh Mining &
Mfg. Ca. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327. That was 'an action involving the title to certain lands in Virginia in the possession of
citizens of that Commonwealth, and of which lands a Virginia
corporation claimed to be the owner. The individual stockholders and officdrs of the Virginia corporation organized a

MILLER & LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation .in Pennsylvania, to which the former corporation
conveyed all its rights', title and interest in the Virginia lands,
without any valuable consideration. The stockholders in both
corporations were identical. The admitted purpose of organizing the Pennsylvania corporation and conveying to it the
lands there iii question was to give the Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting in Virginia, jurisdiction to determine
the disputed controversy as to the lands. All this having been
done, the Pennsylvania corporation instituted a suit in the
Federal court in Virginia against the individual citizens of
Virginia to recover the lands. When that suit was instituted
the Virginia corporation still existed with the same stockholders it had at the time of the conveyance by it to the Pennsylvania corporation.
This court said (p. 331)'that "The Virginia corporation still
exists with the same stockholders it had when the conveyance
of March 1, 1893, was made; and that, as soon as this litigation
is concluded, the Pennsylvania corporation, if it succeeds in
obtaining judgment against the defendants, can be required by
the stockholders of the Virginia corporation, being also its own
stockholders, to reconvey the lands in controversy to the
Virginia corporation without any consideration passing to the
Pennsylvania corporation."
After referring to several cases, this' court, among other
thing, also said (p. 336): "In harmony with the principles
announced in former cases, we hold that the Circuit Court
properly dismissed this action. The conveyance to the Pennsylvania corporation was without any valuable consideration.
It was a conveyance by one corporation 'to another corporation-the grantor representing certain stockholders, entitled
cllectively or as one body to do business under the name of
the Virginia Coal and Iron Company, while the grantee represented the same stockholders, entitled collectively or as One
body to do business under the name of the Lehigh Mining and
Manufacttiring Company. It is true that the technical legal
title to the lands in controversy is, for the time, in the Penn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

sylvania corporation. It is also true that there was no formal
agreement upon the part of that corporation 'as an artificial
being, invisible, intangible, and existing only in contemplation of law,? that the title should ever be reconveyed to the
Virginia corporation. But when the inquiry involves the jurisdiction of a Federal court-the presumption in every stage of
a cause being that it is without the jurisdiction of a court of
the United States, unless the contrary appears from the record,
Grace v. American Central Insurance Co., 109 U. S. 278, 283;
Bors v. Preston, 111 U. S. 252, 255-we cannot shut our eyes

to the fact that there exists what should be deemed an equiva.
lent to such an agreement, namely, the right and power of
those who are stockholders of each corporation to compel the
one holding the lgal title to convey, without a valuable consideration, such title to the other corporation. In other words,
although the Virginia corporation, as such, holds no stock in
the Pennsylvania corporation, the latter corporation holds the
legal title, subject at any time to be divested of it by the action
of the stockholders of the grantor corporation who are also its
stockholders. The stockholders of the Virginia corporationthe original promoters of the present scheme, and, presumably,
when a question of the jurisdiction of a court of the United
States is involved, 'citizens of Virginia-in order to procure a
determination of the controversy between that corporation and
the defendant citizens of Virginia, in respect of the lands in
that Commonwealth, which are here in dispute, assumed, as a
body, the mask of a Pennsylvania corporation, for the purpose,
and the purpose only, of invoking the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States, retaining the power, in their discretion, and after all.danger of'defeating the jurisdiction of the
Federal court shall have passed, to throw off that mask and
reappear under the original form of a Virginia corporationtheir right, in the meantime, to participate in the management
of the general affairs of the latter corporation not having been
impaired by the conveyance to the Pennsylvania corporation.
And all this may be done, if the position of the plaintiffs be

MILLER & LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of tha Court.

correct, without any consideration passing between the two
corporations." Observing that the Pennsylvania corporation
received the technical legal title for the purpose only of bringing a suit in the Federal court, the court proceeded (p. 3.12):
"As we have said, that corporation may be required by those
who are stockholders of its grantor, and who are also its own
stockholders, at any time, and without receiving therefor any
considerationwhatever, to place the title where it was when the
plan was formed to wrest the judicial determination of the
present controversy from the courts of the State in which the
land lies. It should be regarded as a case of an improper and
collusive making of parties for the purpose of creating a case
cognizable in the Circuit Court. If this action were not declared collusive, within the meaning of the act of 1875, then the
provision making it the duty of the Circuit Court to disimss a
suit, ascertained at any time to be one in which parties have
been improperly or collusively made or joined, for the purpose
of creating a case cognizable- by that court, would become of
no practical value, and the dockets of the Circuit: Courts of
the United States will be crowded with suits of which neither
thp framers of the Constitution nor Congress ever intended they
should take cognizance."
The present case is controlled .by the one just, cited. The
two cases are alike in all material reSipects. Looking at the
facts as they were when this suit was instituted in the Circuit
Court, it must be taken that the transfer of the property of
the California corporation to the Nevada corporation was
merely formal-only a device by which to have the rights asserted by the California corporation in the state court determined by the Federal court rather than by the state court.
The agreement that all the property of the California corporation should be transferred to the Nevada corporation was
attended by the condition that all the capital stock of the new
corporation should be issued-and it was issued-to the California corporation which remained in existence with full power
as the owner of such stock to control the operations of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Nevada corporation. If before the institution of this suit the
California corporation had distributed among those entitled
to it the stock of the Nevada corporation, issued to it as fully
paid up stock, and had then ceased to exist or been dissolved,
a different question might have been presented. But such
is not this case. As the facts were, when this suit was brought
the California corporation could at any time, even after this
suit was concluded, have required the Nevada corporation,
without any new or valuable consideration, to surrender all
its interest in the property which it had obtained from the
California corporation for the purpose of acquiring a standing
in the Circuit Court of the United States. In other words, the
Nevada corporation had no real interest in the property. Its
ownership was a sham, in that it could at any time after the
bringing of this suit have been compelled by the California
corporation to dismiss the suit and abandon all claim to the
property in question. It took the-title only as matter of form,
in order that the California corporation,. or the stockholders
interested in it, might, under the name of the Nevada corporation, invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal court and avoid
the determination of the rights of the parties in the courts, of
the State. Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 280, 288. The
prosecution of the suit was really for the benefit of those who
were interested in the California corporation.
We do not intend by what has been said to qualify the general rule, long established, that the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court, when based on diverse citizenship, cannot be questioned
upon the ground merely that a party's motive in acquiring
citizenship in the State in which he sues was to invoke the
jurisdiction of a Federal court. But that rule is attended by
the. condition that the acquisition of such citizenship is real,
with the purpose to establish a permanent domicil in the State.
of which he professes to be a citizen at the time of suit, and not
fictitious or pretended. Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315, 328.
In that case the question was whether the plaintiff who was
residing with his adversary in Alabama actually acquired such

MILLER.& LUX v. EAST SIDE CANAL CO.
211 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

a domicil in Tennessee as entitled him to bring suit in the
Federal court, sitting in Alabama. This court said: "Upon
the evidence in this record, we cannot resist the conviction
that the plaintiff had no purpose to acquire a domicil or settled
home in Tennessee, and that his sole object in removing to
that State was to place himself in a situation to invoke the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States. He went
to Tennessee without any present intention to remain there
permanently or for an indefinite time, but with a present intention to return to Alabama as soon as he could do so without
defeating the jurisdiction of the Federal court to determine
his new suit. He was, therefore, a mere sojourner in the former
State when this suit was brought. He returned1 to Alabama almost immediately after giving his deposition. The case comes
within the principle announced in Butler v. Farnsworth, 4
Wash. C. C. 101, 103, where Mr. Justice Washington said: 'If
the removal be for the purpose of committing a fraud upon
the law, and to enable the party to avail himself of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and that fact be made out by
his acts, the court must pronounce that his removal was not
with a bona fide intention of changing his dornicil, however
frequent and public his declarations to the contrary may have
been.' "
In the present case, although the Nevada corporation appeared, upon the face of the record, to be the owner of the rights
which the California corporation had asserted in the state
court, it was, when this suit was brought, only the representative of the California corporation and its stockholders. The
latter corporation holding all the stock and having the same
directors and officers as the Nevada corporation, could control
the suit brought by the Nevada corporation, and, in the event
of a favorable decree, could have compelled it to surrender or
abandon all its claims to the California corporation, which was
still in existence when this suit was brought.
As the Nevada corporation was formed by the direction of
the California corporation, its stockholders and officers, for
VOL. ccxi-20'

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

the purpose only of having the matters in dispute between
the California corporation and the East Side Canal & Irrigation Company determined in the Federal court rather than
in the state court where they were pending and undetermined,
as the Nevada corporation assumed to be the owner of the
property.rights which the California corporation had asserted
against the Canal & Irrigation Company only that it might
have a standing in the Federal court as a litigant in respect
of those rights; and as the California corporation could have
controlled the conduct of the suit brought by the Nevada
corporation at any time after it was brought, and up to the
date of the decree below, and could have required the Nevada,
corporation, in the event of a decree in its favor, to transfer
the benefit of such decree to the California corporation, without any new or valuable consideration, we hold that the suit
was properly dismissed under the fifth section of the act of
1875 as one in which the Nevada corporation was organized
and collusively made plaintiff in the suit in the Federal court
simply for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by that
court.
Decree affirmed.

NORTH AMERICAN COLD STORAGE COMPANY, APPELLANT, v. CITY OF CHICAGO et al.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 28.

Argued November 13, 1908.-Decided December 7, 1908.

A municipal ordinance properly adopted under a power granted by the
state legislature is to be regarded as an act of the State within the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Where the Circuit Court has sustained the demurrer to the complaint
because the case does not involve the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States and has given a certificate to

