OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

We think that it must be said, as matter of law, that she voluntarily assumed the risk of the danger. Tuttle v. Milwaukee
Railway, 122 U. S. 189; Crowley v. Pacific Mills, 148 Massachusetts, 228; Gleason v. Railroad, 159 Massachusetts, 68;
Connolly v. Eldredge, 160 Massachusetts, 566; Lemoine v.
Aldrich, 177 Massachusetts, 89; Burke v. Davis, 191 Massachusetts. 20.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel. KOPEL v.
BINGHAM, POLICE COMMISSIONER OF THE CITY
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OFTHE STA'PE OF NEW YORK.
No. 167.

Argued October 26, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Under § 17 of the act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, 81, the
governor of Porto Rico has the same power that the governor of
any organized Territory has to issue requisitions for the return of
fugitive criminals under § 5278, Rev. Stat.
While subd. 2, § 2, Art. IV, Const. U. S., refers in terms only to the
States, Congress, by the act of February 12, 1793, c. 7, 1 Stat. 302,
now § 5278, Rev. Stat., has provided for the demand and surrender
of fugitive criminals by governors of Territories as well as of States,
and the power to do so is as complete with Territories as with States.
Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S.642.
Section 5278, Rev. Stat.i will not be construed so as to make territory
of the United States an asylum for criminals, and that section is not
locally inapplicable to Porto Rico within the meaning of § 14 of
the act of April 12, 1900, c.191, 31 Stat. 77, 80.
Porto Rico, although not a Territory incorporated into the United
States, is a completely organized-Territory.
189 N. Y. 124, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

KOPEL v. BINGHAM.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Alfred R. Pagefor plaintiff in error:
Extradition between States, Territories' and countries subject to the jurisdiction of the United States depends solely on
the provisions of. the Constitution of the. United States and the
acts of Congress. There is no reserve power in the State to
surrender a fugitive as a matter of favor or comity. Corkran v.
Hyatt, 172 N. Y. 183; S. C., aff'd, 188 U. S. 691.
This case does not come within any of the four provisions
of law for extradition between Porto Rico and the State of
New York.
There are four distinct provisions of law authorizing extradition of an alleged fugitive from justice, none of which applies
to this case.
1. Extradition between States upon the demand of the
governor of one State upon the governor of another. Const.
U. S., Art. IV, §2.
2. Extradition between States and Territories of the United States upon the demand of the governor. Rev. Stat.,
§§ 5278, 5279.

3. Extradition between foreign countries or Territories occupied by or under the control of the United States and other
parts of the United States, on demand of the chief executive
officer upon the Secretary of State of the United States. Rev.
Stat., § 5270, as amended June 6, 1900.
4. Extradition between States, Territories and Districts or
insular possessions under special statutes. Dist. of Col., Rev.
Stat. D. C., § 843; Indian Territory, Act of Congress, May 2,
1890, Rev. Stat., § 14; Philippine Islands, c. 529, Laws of U. S.,
1903; c. 454, Laws of U. S., 1905; Alaska (when same was a
District), c. 429, Laws 1899.
To these might be added the right of removal of a person
charged with an offense against the laws of the United States
when indicted in the United States court from the District ii
which he was apprehended to the'District in which he was
indicted. Rev. Stat., § 1014. "
This case does not come within the provisions of the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

stitution, because Porto Rico is not a State. Nor under § 5270,
Rev. Stat., as the proceedings were not had through the Secretary of State; nor is there any special statute providing for
extradition for Porto Rico; the proceedings in this case were
had under §§ 5278 and 5279, which do not apply, as Porto Rico
is not. a Territory of the United States.
The word "territory" as used in § 5278, Rev. Stat., does not
mean "The entire domain over which a sovereign state exercises jurisdiction as by right of sovereignty; as within United States territory," but it means "a division of the national
domain of the United States that by Act of Congress has been
organized under a separate government in the expectation that
it or some part thereof will ultimately be admitted into the
Union as a State; as Arizona is a territory." Standard Dictionary; Ex parte Lane, 135 U. S. 443, 447; Ex parte Morgan, 20
Fed. Rep. 304; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 346, and
cases cited.
Porto Rico possesses none of the attributes necessary to
constitute a Territory. A resident of Porto Rico is not and
cannot become a citizen of the United States, and his children,
even though born after the island was acquired, do not become
,citizens of the United States.
That Porto Rico is not a Territory, is recognized by the
organic act, 31 Stat. 77. Provisions in that statute would be
unnecessary if Porto Rico was a Territory of the United States.
The acts of Congress relating to extradition cannot be extended by construction to apply to places other than those
specified in the acts themselves.
In addition -to States and Territories, it is a well-recognized
fact that there exists territory occupied by and under the
jurisdiction of the United States, which is not covered by
either the designation of a State or Territory. Downes v.
idwell, 182 U. S. 244; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197;
Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138.
Sections 5278 and 5279 are not applicable to Porto Rico,
because it is neither a State nor a Territory of the United States,

KOPEL v. BINGHAM..
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and hence by the terms of the statute itself are made inapplicable and are therefore "locally inapplicable."
Mr. Robert C. Taylor, with whom Mr. Robert S. Johnstone
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The word "territory" in § 5278, Rev. Stat., comprehends all
Territories which are organized in fact.
Porto Rico is an organized Territory in the full sense of the
word and is necessarily contemplated by §5278, Rev. Stat.
Ex parte Lane, 135 U. S. 443; Foraker Act (chap. 191, 31 Stat.
77); In re Kopel, 148 Fed. Rep. 505, 507; National Bank v.
County ol Yankton, 101 U. S. 129, 133; Ex parte Morgan, 20
Fed. Rep. 298, 305; 28 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 57,
and cases cited; Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 15; Garzot v.
De Rubio, 209 U. S. 283.
In any event, the powers given to the governor of Porto
Rico by § 17 of the Foraker Act show that Congress expressly
intended that Porto Rico, by virtue of these powers, should
have the right to demand the extradition of fugitives under
§ 5278. People ex rel. Kopel v. Bingham, 189 N. Y. 124;
S. C., aff'g, 117 App. Div. 411; In re Kopel, 148 Fed. Rep. 505,
508.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion- of the

court.
September 11, 1906, Kopel was taken into custody by defendant in error -Bingham, who is the police commissioner of
the city of New York. The arrest was made in pursuance of
a rendition warrant issued by the governor of the State of
New York, which recited that Kopel was charged with having committed embezzlement in Porto Rico; that he had fled
therefrom and taken refuge in New York, and that his return
had been lawfully demanded by the governor of Porto Rico.
Kopel thereupon sued out a writ of habeas corpus from the
Supreme Court of the State of New York. Bingham made

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

return to the writ, and set up the rendition warrant as his authority for detaining the prisoner. Kopel demurred to the
return as insufficient in law, and that the governor's warrant
had been issued without authority, etc. The matter coming
on at special term before Truax, J., the demurrer was overruled
and the writ dismissed, and. the police commissioner directed
to deliver Kopel to the agent of Porto Rico, to be conveyed
back to Porto Rico.
From this order Kopel appealed to the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court in the First Department, and the order
of Judge Truax was unanimously affirmed.
Kopel then appealed to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed
the order below. The record was remitted to the Supreme
Court, to be proceeded upon according to law, and thereupon
the order of the Court of Appeals was made the order of the
Supreme Court, whereby it was ordered that the original order
of the Supreme Court which had been affirmed should be enforced and carried into execution and effect. To this order
upon the remittitur this writ of error is addressed.
The questions involved are whether the governor of Porto
Rico had power and authority to make a requisition upon the
governor of the State of New York for the arrest and surrender
of the fugitive criminal of Porto Rico who had taken refuge in
the State of New York, and whether the governor of the State
of New York had power and authority to honor such requisition
and to issue his rendition warrant for the arrest and surrender
of such fugitive.
ection 5278 of the Revised Statutes reads as follows:
"Whenever the executive authority of any State or Territory
demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of the executive authority of any State or Territory to which such person
has fled, and produces a copy of an indictment found or an
affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory,
charging the person demanded with having committed treason,
felony or other crimes, certified as authentic by the governor
or chief magistrate of the State or Territory from whence the

KOPEL v. BINGHAM.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

person so charged has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive
authority of the State or Territory to which such person has
fled to cause him to be arrested and secured, and to cause notice of the arrest to be given to the executive authority making
such demand, or to the agent of such authority appointed to
receive the fugitive and to cause the fugitive to be delivered
to such agent when he shall appear. .
By § 827 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of New York
it is provided:
• "It shall be the duty of the governor, in all cases where by
virtue of a/requisition made upon him by the governor of another State or Territory, any citizen, inhabitant or temporary
resident of this State is to be arrested as a fugitive from- justice . . . to issue and transmit a warrant for such purpose to the sheriff of the proper county
.
. (except in
the city and county of New York, where such warrant shall
only be issued to the superintendent 'or any inspector of police). .. . . Before any officer to whom such warrant shall
be directed or intrusted shall deliver the person arrested into
the custody of the agent or agents named in the warrant of
the governor of this State, such officer must, unless the same
be waived, as hereinafter stated, take the prisoner or prisoners
before a judge of the Supreme Court or a county judge, who
shall, in open court, if in session, otherwise at chambers, inform the prisoner or prisoners of the cause of his or their arrest,
"
and that he or they may have awrit of habeas
corpus upon filing an affidavit to the effect that he or they are
not the person or persons mentioned in said requisition.
By § 14 of the Organic Act of -Porto Rico, commonly called
the Foraker Act, it is provided that "the statutory laws of the
United States not locally inapplicable, except as he.reinbefore
or hereinafter otherwise provided, shall have the same force
and effect in Porto Rico as in the United States, except the
internal revenue laws," etc. 31 Stat. 80, chap. 191.
Section 17 provides that the governor "shall at all times
faithfully execute the: laws, and he shall in that behalf have

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

all the powers of governors of the Territories of the United
States that arc not locally inapplicable."
Among the powers of governors of Territories of the United States is the authority to demand the rendition of fugitives
from justice under § 5278 of the Revised Statutes, and we concur with the courts below in the conclusion that the governor
of Porto Rico has precisely the same power as that possessed
by the governor of any organized Territory to issue a requisition
for the return of a fugitive criminal. People &c. ex rel. Kopel v.
Bingham, Police Commissioner, 189 N. Y., 124; S. C., 117 App.
Div. 411. It was so held by Judge Hough, of, the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, in passing upon a similar application by this same relator. In re Kopel, 148 Fed. Rep. 505.
Subdivision 2 of §2 of Art. IV of the Federal Constitution
refers in terms to the States only, but the act of Congress of
February 12, 1793, carried forward into § 5278 of the Revised Statutes, made provision for the demand and surrender
of fugitives by the governors of the Territories as well as of
the States, and it was long ago held that the power to extradite fugitive criminals as between State and Territory is as
complete as between one State and another. Ex pare Reggel,
114 U. S.642, 650. If § 5278 does not apply, no other statute
does. And as to §§ 14 and 17 of the Foraker Act, no contention
is made that they are locally inapplicable, except as it is argued that § 5278 of the Revised Statutes is not applicable at
all, because Porto Rico is not a "Territory," as that word is
used therein. We quite agree with Judge Ilough that "to allege
that the only existing law under which a Porto Rican fugitive
from justice can be returned thereto from the United States
is 'locally inapplicable' would be to make a jest of justice."
It is impossible to hold that Porto- Ri'co was not intended
to have power to reclaim fugitives from its justice, and that it
was intended to be created an asylum for fugitives from the
United States.
In the case of Ex parte Morgan, 20 Fed. Rep. 298, 305, the

KOPEL v. BINGHAM.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question involved was the right of the governor of Arkansas
to honor a requisition for the surrender of a fugitive criminal
received from the principal chief of the Cherokee Nation, and
the court, in holding that the governor was not authorized to
honor such a requisition, for the reason that the chief of the
Cherokee Nation was not the executive authority of any
"State" or "Territory," inasmuch as the Cherokee Nation or
Indian Territory was not an organized government, with an
executive, legislative and judicial system of its own, but was
exclusively under the jurisdiction of the United States, defined
a Territory within the meaning, of the extradition statute as
follows:
"A portion of the country not included within the limits of
any State, and not yet admitted as a State into the Union, but
organized under the laws of Congress with a separate legislature under a territorial governor and other officers appointed
by the President and Senate of the United States."
In the case of In re Lane, 135 U. S.443, the accused was
charged with the commission of an offense "within that part
of the Indian Territory commonly known as Oklahoma." He
was tried and convicted upon an indictment, found under an
act of Congress, which excepted the "Territories" from its
operation; and it was claimed that Oklahoma, which was then
a part of the Indian Territory, was a Territory and came
within the exemption of the act. But the court, Miller; J., said:
"But we think the words 'except the territories' have reference exclusively to that system of organized government,
long existing within the United States, by which certain regions
of the country have been erected into civil governments. These
governments have an executive, a legislative and a judicial
system. They have the powers which all these departments
of governmcnt have exercised, which are conferred upon them
by act of Congress, and their legislative acts are subject to
the disapproval of the Congress of the United States. They
are not in any sense independent governments; they have no
Senators in Congress and no Representatives in the lower

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

house of that body, except what are called Delegates, with
limited functions. Yet they exercise nearly all the powers of
government, under what are generally called organic acts
passed by Congress conferring such powers on them. It is
this class of governments, long known by the name of Territories, that the act of Congress excepts from the operation of
this statute, while it extends it to all other places over which
the United States have exclusive jurisdiction.
"Oklahoma was not of this .class of Territories. It had no
legislative body. It had no government. It had no established
or organized system of government for the control of the
people within its limits, as the Territories of the United States
have and have always had. We are therefore of opinion that
the objection taken on this point by the counsel for prisoner
is unsound."
Oklahoma was given a territorial government by the act of
May2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, §§ 1 to 100, chap. 182.
In Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 15, the court unanimously
held that a citizen of Porto Rico was not an alien immigrant,
and among other things an opinion of Attorney General Knox,
relating to a Porto Rican named Molinas, was quoted from
as follows:
"He [i. e., Molinas] is also clearly a Porto Rican; that is to
say, a permanent inhabitant of that island, which was also
turned over by Spain to the United States. As his country
became a domestic country and ceased to be a foreign country
within the meaning of the tariff act above referred to, and has
now been fully organized as a country of the United States by
the Foraker act, it seems to me that he .Aias o0.ome an American,
notwithstanding such supposed omissvm.
It may -be justly asserted that Porto Rico is a compleIely
organizedTerritory, although not a Territory incorporated into
the United States, and that there is no-eason why Porto Rico
should not be held to be su-ha Territory as is comprised in
§ 5278.
Order affirmed.

