HUTCHINS v. BIERCE.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

Washington. Legislative power vested in Congress over interstate commerce embraces the whole country, and while it may
be extremely inconvenient to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of the, papers, etc., throughout a
domain so large as ours, that consideration does not detract
from the power of Congress over the subject-matter.
Assuming, for the purposes of this case and the construction of the statute, that the relations of directors in a corporation engaged in interstate commerce to the sales of stock to
such corporation may be the subject of inquiry when Congress
confers such power upon the commission, I think that in this
act Congress has conferred such power. If such is the proper
construction of the act, it follows that the commission had a
right to propound the questions which the,Circuit Court directed to be answered. In my view the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concur in

this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN also

dissents in No. 317.

HUTCHINS, TRUSTEE, v. WILLIAM W. BIERCE,
LIMITED.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

HA-WAII.
No. 447.

Argued November 29, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

An appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii dismissed
because not final. Cotton v. Hawaii, ante, p. 162.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Mr. David L. Withington and Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with
whom Mr. W. R. Castle; Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. J. W.
Cathcartwere on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles H. Aldrich, with whom Mr. Henry S. McAuley
and Mr. Henry W. Prouty were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICF HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case has been before this court once already. 205 U. S.
340. It was an action ef replevin and was tried by a judge
without a jury. The judge found that'the allegations of the
complaint were proved and that the plaifitiff, William W.
Bierce, Limited, was entitled to recover. He also made a series
of findings in detail, establishing the plaintiff's case and excluding certain defenses. These findings were excepted to on
various grounds, among others, that they were not warranted
by the evidence, and the whole evidence was attached to the
bill of exceptions. Two of the findings were that the plaintiff
had not waived a condition precedent to the passing of title
to the property replevied, and that it had not elected against
its right to bring this action. The case went to the Supreme
Court of Hawaii on the exceptions and there, of course, the
question was whether it appeared as matter of law that the
finding for the plaintiff and the judgment rendered upon it
were unwarranted. The Supreme Court held that an election
appeared as matter of law, sustained the exceptions, and rni,de
the usual order sending the case back for further proceedings
in the lower court; but afterwards,, on the plaintiff's motion,
coupled with an affidavit that it would have no more evidence
to offer at a second trial, it ordered judgment for the defendant. Thereupon the plaintiff brought the case here. It was
held-that the error relied on was not made out against the
findings of the trial court, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Territory was reversed.
In the discussion here it was assumed that the Supreme

HUTCHINS v. BIERCE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the Territory had power under the local procedure to
order judgment as it did, and so to lay a foundation for the
appeal. But the difficulties incident to such a course in cases
subject to appeal are made manifest by this case. If the-Supreme Court had the power to order judgment, obviously the
scope of its inquiry before rendering judgment was not enlarged by the subsequent appeal or by the liability to it. When
it rendered judgment it was confined to the questions of law
presented by the bill of exceptions and the record. Logically,
on appeal in such a case this court would be confined in the
same way. At the broadest, the only questions would be
whether it appeared from the record, as matter of law, that
the judgment for the defendant ordered by the Supreme Court,
or the judgment for the plaintiff in the court of first instance,
or both of them, were wrong. It would be anomalous if the
Supreme Court could make the statement of facts which is
contemplated by the statutes and which it was said in our
former opinion should have been made, in such form as to open
questions on which the Supreme Court itself had had no power
to pass before entering judgment, and so to present to this
court grounds for decision which the Supreme Court of Hawaii
could not have taken into account. On the other hand a
statement that should present.the questions passed upon and
no more would simply have presented the record, even if
possibly somewhat abridged, or modified by concessions of
which there was some trace in the opinion of the court. So
not unnaturally, at the subsequent stage the Supreme Court
found itself a little perplexed.
Whatever might have been open, in our former decision
the only question actually dealt with was whether the judgment oLthe Supreme Court could be sustained. There were
some subbrdinate exceptions to the admission of evidence and
the allowanice of an amendment that were not considered here.
When the case went back these were taken up and overruled
by the Supreme Court. It then made a statement of facts in
deference to what was said in our decision, and the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Counsel for Parties.

211 U. S.

appealed to this court. But this time the Supreme Court did
not order judgment, and it may be, that in its present opinion,
the former judgment was unwarranted in point of procedure.
Meheula v. Pioneer Mill Co., 17 Hawaii, 91. It is unnecessary
to consider whether our former decision left anything open, in
view of the technical scope of the appeal on the one side and
the limited inquiry to which our attention was directed on the
other. The statement of facts cannot affect that question,
nor can it affect the defendant's right to be here. It is enough
that the Supreme Court of Hawaii has pursued the usual course
upon exceptions, and has not entered or directed a judgment.
Therefore, as was decided a few days ago, in Cotton v. Hawaii,
ante, p. 162, an appeal does not lie.
Appeal dismissed.

McCORQUODALE v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO' THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.

No. 38.

Argued December 3,1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

It is too late to raise the Federal question for the first time in petition
for rehearing in the state court of last resort, unless, and it must so
appear, that court actually entertains the motion and passes upon the
Federal question; where the order is merely a denial of the motion
the writ of error will be dismissed.
Writ of error to review 98 S. W. Rep. 879, dismissed.
THE facts are

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Sam Streetmnan, with whom Mr. Thomas H. Ball was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. V. Davidson, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
and Mr. Felix J. McCord, for defendant in error, submitted.

