OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants.

211 U. S.

In my .opinion the judgment should be reversed upon the
in violation of the Constitution of
ground that the statute 'is
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

also dissents.

STATE OF LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR.
ORIGINAL IN EQUITY.
No. 7.

Argued October 27, 28, 1908.-Decided November 9, 1908.

This court has no jurisdiction of an action brought by a State against

the Secretary of the Interior to establish title to, and prevent other
disposition of, lands claimed under swamp land grants where questions of law and fact exist as to whether the United States still owns
the lands. The United States is a necessary, party, and the action
cannot be tried without it.
THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Glenn E. Husted was on the brief, for defendants, on demurrer:
The United States is the real party in interest as defendant, and as it has not consented to be sued, and cannot be
sued without its consent, the bill must be dismissed. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S.373; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S.
60; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; Kansas v. United
States, 2.04 U. S.331.
The point determined by the Secretary of the Interior in
1895 was not a matter of fact and merely quasi-jurisdictional
as in Noble i. Union River Logging Co., 147 U. S. 164, 173,
but was a question of law and strictly jurisdictional expressly
within the classification of that case, which included the instance where "the Land Department issues a patent for land

LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

which has already been reserved or granted to another person." The act then is not voidable merely but void. This
was the character of the Secretary's action, involving a manifest mistake of law.
Even if the court had jurisdiction the suit must fail because these military reservation lands were not intended to
be and were not covered by the swamp land grant. Such
grants are to be interpreted most strongly in favor of the
Government, and nothing passes but what is clearly included
within the terms of the grant. Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black,
358; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; Leavenworth &c. R. R.
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S.
761; United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379. Congress could
not have intended to grant to the State any interest as of the
date of this swamp land act in lands then reserved and occupied
for military purposes, and the act of February 24, 1871, 16
Stat. 430, transferring the. Fort Sabine military reservation
to the Interior Department shows that it was not the understanding of Congress that the grant applied to the reservation
lands.
Furthermore, the approval by the Secretary of the Interior
of the Surveyor General's certified list of swamp lands under
the act of 1849, as amended by the act of 1850, connects and
merges the special act of 1849 with the general act of 1850,
and therefore this approval was merely an additional step
and a patent as provided under the act of 1850 was necessary.
No such patent has been issued and under the later act the
legal title passes only upon delivery of the patent. Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473. This is not a case for the application of the rule that a posterior general act does not repeal
a prior special provision unless the legislative intent to repeal
be apparent. People v. Jaehne, 103 U.. S. 182. The act of
1850 is to be regarded as the final expression of the legislature
on swamp land grants; the requirements and method of conveyance of that act take the place of the special law and must
be taken as substituted for the special law. Morris v. Crocker,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Complainant. ,

211 U. S.

13 How. 429; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88; Murdock
v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590. This is also the conclusion
to be drawn from the Revised Statutes, because the act of
1850 is the code there, and while some special swamp land
provisions as to other States are preserved, this is not the
case as to Louisiana.
The State by the action of its officers has apparently considered that a patent was necessary. After approval by the
Secretary of the Interior in 1895, the register of the state
land office, assuming to act under authority of an act of the
state legislature, protested against the patenting of the lands
embraced in the approved list as not described in accordance
with the latest approved survey thereof, and sought to correct the description before the patent was to be issued. 33
Land Dec. 16. And again, the State of Louisiana instituted
proceedings in the Court of Claims to recover money alleged
to be due under the act of March .2, 1855, 10 Stat. 634, which
provided for the patenting of lands to persons who prior to
the issuance of patents to the States under the act of 1850
had located upon swamp lands, and for the payment to the
States of the purchase money as indemnity.
Even if an actual patent was not necessary under the act
of 1850, something more than bare approval was required.
See act of August 3, 1854, now § 2449, Rev. Stat., providing
for lists being certified by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office. In this case there was no such list, and since
the Secretary's mere approval was not given until long after
the act of 1854 was passed, it was within the power of Conegress to provide a different means of administering the grant
as to land not already approved.
Mr. George 'H. Lamar and Mr. Harvey M. Friend for complainant, on demurrer:
According to the theory of the present bill, the title to the
lands here in controversy has by conveyance not only passed
out of the United States into the State of Louisiana, but by

LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD.
211 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

reason of a certain congressional statute of limitation and repose the title So conveyed is no longer subject to attack or
suit by or on behalf of the. Federal Government, and, therefore, the United States is not, and cannot be made, the real
party defendant, for the all-sufficient reason that the United
States has no present, prospective or ultimate interest in the
land whatsoever: If, therefore, the court shall find that the
legal title to the lands in dispute has passed out of the United
States into:.the State of Louisiana, then there cannot be any
doubt of the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the suit.
The cases cited by the counsel for the defendants in support
of the demurrer herein do not sustain the contention that this
suit cannot be maintained because it is in effect a suit against
the United States, which has not consented to be sued. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S.
60; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473; and Kansas v; United
States, 204 U. S. 331, discusqed and distinguished.:
The Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office are but creatures of the law, and mere
agencies created by the law to carry it into practical operation, and neither of them should be permitted to exert his
agency'in violating the law and the Constitution and then
claim exemption from the process of the court, whose duty
it is to guard against abuses, on the ground that they are
executive officers of the Government and cannot be restrained
from violating the law'. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137;
Noble v. Union River Logging Co.,. 147 U. S. 165, and cases
cited.
This court has pointed out in numerous opinions that similar
suits to enjoin an executive officer from executing an unconstitutional 'statute, or where such officer has been proceeded
against on the ground that he is acting or assuming to act
beyond the scope of his authority, were not against the State,
but were against its officers who were assuming to act under
an unconstitutional statute or were assuming to act ultra vires
to the great and irreparable injury and damage of the corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

plainants in their property rights. Osborn v. Bank of United
States, 9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 220; Board of
Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531; Poindexterv. Greenhow,
114 U. S. 270; Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 114 U. S.
311 (these last two being known as the Virginia Coupon cases);
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; Stanley v. Schwalby,
147 U. S. 508; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204; Scott v. Donald,
169 U. S. 58, 107; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Prout v.
Starr, 188 U. S. 537; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, and -cases
cited and referred to in the opinions in those cases.
Under many authorities, this court can entertain this suit
under its original jurisdiction. United States v. Texas, 143
U. S. 621, 644; Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127 U. S.
265, 287; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 388; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, 560; Mississippi
v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475, 501; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 719;
Pennsylvania v. Quicksilver Co., 10 Wall. 553, 556; Florida
v. Anderson, 91 U. S. 667.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill brought in this court to establish the -title of
the State of Louisiana to certain swamp lands which it claims
under the statutes of the United States, and to enjoin the
defendants against carrying out an order making a different
disposition of the lands. The defendants demur on the grounds
that this really is a suit against the United States, which has
not consented to be sued, that the title never has passed from
the United States, and that the remiedy, if any, would be at
law.
The act of March 2, 1849, c. 87, 9 Stat. 352, purported to
grant to the State of'Louisiana the whole of the swahip and
overflowed lands therein, and provided that on approval of
a list of such lands by the S6CrLtary of the Treasury (afterwards
succeeded by the Secretary of the Interior) the fee simple to
the same should vest in the State. Certain lands were ex-

LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cluded, but those in dispute were not by any express words.
They belonged, however, to the Fort Sabine Military Reservation, established by the President on December 20, 1838, and
although included in a list submitted under the statute, approval of the inclusion was suspended or denied. ;On March 25,
1871, the Fort Sabine Military Reservation was abandoned
by executive order, in pursuance of the act of February 24,
1871, c. 68, 16 Stat. 430, which authorized the Secretary of
War to transfer it to the control of the Secretary of the Interior,
to be sold for cash. On October 31, 1895, the Secretary of
the Interior decided that the land was included in the grant
of the act of 1849, subject to the right of the United States
to use it for military purposes until abandoned. On December 10, 1895, pursuant to his decision, the Secretary indorsed
upon a list of these lands that it was "Approved to the State
of Louisiana under the Act of Congress of March 2, 1849, as
supplemented and enlarged by the Act of Congress of September 28, 1850, subject to any valid adverse.rights that may
exist." The plaintiff says that thereupon the title passed.
On June 6, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior ordered that
his predecessor's approval of the list be vacated, and that the
lands should be held for disposition as provided by law, on
the ground that they were not within the grant of the act of
1849, because at that time embraced in a military reservation.,
This decision has been upheld and finally affirmed by the
present Secretary, the defendant in this case, and the result is
the bringing of this bill.
We will assume for purposes of decision that if the United States clearly had no title to the land in controversy we
should have jurisdiction to entertain this suit; for we are of
opinion that even on that assumption the bill must be dismissed. But -before giving the rea§6ns for our opinion the
course taken by the argument for the United States makes it
proper to state a portion of that argument that does not command our 'assent.
The next year after the act of 1849 another act was passed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U S.

which granted swamp lands to the State of Arkansas. It provided for a list, required the Secretary of the Interior to issue
a patent for the lands at the request of the Governor, and then
enacted that "on that patent" the fee simple to the lands
should vest in the State. The fourth section was more general:
"That the provisions of this act be extended to, and their benefits be conferred upon, each of the other States of the Union
in which such swamp and overflowed lands, known as [sic]
designated as aforesaid, may be situated." Act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519. It is argued that this so far
repealed the special act of 1849 that thereafter the title would
not pass on simple approval as provided 'therein, but a patent
was necessary. As we understand, the continuous construction of the Department has been to the contrary, and a great
number of titles to a very large amount of land would be
disturbed if we should accede to this argument. We see no
reason' for overthrowing the long continued understanding
that the special provisions for Louisiana were not affected
by a general clause, evidently intended to extend benefits to
States that did not enjoy them at the time, not to change the
mode of conveyance previously established in a case where
the benefit already had been conferred. We may add that we
assume that, if approval was sufficient to pass the title, the
form of words used by the Secretary of the Interior on December 10, 1895, had that effect,_ notwithstanding the reference
to the act of 1850, whaiever may have been his understanding
or intent.
A further argument was presented that if a patent was not
necessary under the act of 1850, then a certificate by the
Land Commissioner was made so by the act of August 3, 1854,
c. 201, 10 Stat. 346, Rev. Stat. § 2449. But that law does not
require so extended an application. We shall assume for
purposes of decision that it is satisfied if confined according
to its words to lands to which the at of 1849 did not purport

"to convey the fee-simple title."
Leaving the foregoing arguments on one side we neverthe-

LOUISIANA v. GARFIELD.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

less are of opinion that the bill must fail. The land in controversy had been withdrawn from the public domain by reservation at the time when the act of 1849 was passed, and the
general words of that act must be read as subject to an implied
exception, under the -rule laid down in Scott v. Carew, 196
U. S. 100, 109, and the earlier cases there cited. The case is
not one where the approval proceeded upon a mistake of fact
with regard to a matter on which it was necessary that the
Secretary should pass. See Noble v. Union River Logging
R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165, 173, 174. The approval proceeded
upon a manifest mistake of law; that upon the abandonment
of the military reservation the land fell within the terms of
the grant of 1849. Therefore it was void upon its face. The
only doubt is raised by the statute limiting suits by the United States to vacate patents to five years. Act of March 3,
1891, c. 561, § 8, 26 Stat. 1099. It may be that this act applies
to approvals when they are given the effect of patents as well
as to patents, which alone are named. In United States v.
Chandler-DunbarWater.Power Co., 209 U. S. 447, it was decided that this act applied to patents even if void because of
a previous reservation of the land, and it was said that the
statute not merely took away the remedy but validated the
patent. The doubt is whether Louisiana has not now a good
title by the lapse of five years since the approval and by the
operation of that act.
But that doubt cannot be resolved in this case. It raises
questions of law and of fact upon which the United States
would have to be heard. The United States fairly might
argue that the statute of limitations was confine4-to patents,
or was excluded by the act of 1871. If it yielded those points
it still reasonably might maintain that a title could not be
acquired under the statute by a mere void approval on paper,
if the United States ever since had been in possession claiming
title, as it claimed it earlier by the act of 1871. It might argue
that, for equitable relief on the ground of title in the plaintiff,
in the teeth of the last named act, it would be necessary at

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

least to allege that the State took and has held possession under the void grant. The United States might and undoubtedly
would deny the fact of such possession, and that fact cannot
be tried behind its back. It follows that the United States is
a necessary party and that we have no jurisdiction of this suit.
Bill dismissed.

TWINING v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 10.

Argued March 19, 20, 1908.-Decided November 9, 1908.

The judicial act of the highest court of a State in authoritatively construing and enforcing its laws is the act of the State.
Exemption from compulsory self-incrimination in the state courts is
:not secured by any part of the Federal Constitution.
a citizenship of the United States and a citizenship of the State
There is'
which are distinct from each other, Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36;
and privileges and immunities, although fundamental, which do not
arise out of the nature and character of the National Government, or
are not specifically protected by the Federal Constitution, are attributes of state, and not of National, citizenship.
The first eight Amendments are restrictive only of National action,
and while the Fourteenth Amendment restrained and limited state
action it did not take up and protect citizens of the States from action by the States as to all matters enumerated in the first eight
Amendments.
The words "due process of law" as used in the Fourteenth Amendment
are intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of
powers of government unrestrained by, the established principles of
private right and distributive' justice, Bank v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235,
but that does not require that he be exempted from compulsory selfincrimination in the courts of a State that has not adopted the policy
of such exemption.
Exemption from compulsory, self-incrimination did not form part of
the "law of the land "prior to the separation of the colonies from the
mother-country, nor is it one pf the fundamental rights, immunities

