OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

entry which the statute permitted, but as well one which the
statute forbade. All the argument which seeks to demonstrate
that the provision which gives the right to be preferred in
making an authorized entry, endows With the authority to
make an illegal because prohibited entry, rests upon a mere
misconception of the nature and character of the right of
preference for which the statute provides. The argument assumes that the right of preference is in and of itself the equivalent of an entry, not controlled by the prohibition which the
statute expresses, when in truth and in fact the right of preference is merely a privilege given to make the statutory entry
of a particular tract of coal land in preference to others. And
the misconceptions upon which the argument rests concerning
the nature and character of the preference right for which the
coal land statutes -provide when duly appreciated at once
demonstrates the irrelevancy of previous rulings of this court
concerning the right of an entryman after entry or after the
doing of acts made by the statute equivalent to an entry to
dispose of the land embraced within the entry.
It follows from the construction which we have given the
statutes in the opinion delivered in the Keitel case, No. 286,
just decided, and for the reasons here stated, that the court
below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the indictment.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity
to this*opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HERR et al.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT

No. 291,

OF COLORADO.

Argued October 22, 23, 26, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

Decided on the authority of United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, and
United States v. Forrester, ante, p. 399.
157 Fed. Rep. 396, reversed.

UNITED STATES v. HERR ET AL.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Edwin IV. Lawrence, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.1
Mr. B. W. Ritter and Mr. N. C. Miller for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The court below sustained a demurrer to the indictment in
this case, for the reasons which caused it to quash the first
count of the indictment in the case of United States v. F. W.
Keitel, ante, p. 370.
The indictment alleged a conspiracy to defraud the United
States of coal lands in violation of ยง 5440, Rev. Stat. The
conspiracy charged was, speaking in a broad sense, of the same
general nature as that set forth in the first count of the indictment in the Keitel case. In the argument at bar, however,
counsel differ as to the correct construction of the indictment
here under consideration, the United States contending that
the conspiracy to which the indictment related concerned entries based upon preferential rights, while on the part of the
defendants in error it is insisted that the conspiracy related
to only cash entries. In view, however, of our ruling in the
Keitel case, No. 286, and the reasoning by which the decision
in that case was held to be controlling in United Slates v.
Forresteret al., No. 287, just decided, the contentions referred
to are irrelevant on this writ of error.
As it results from the opinions in the cases just referred to
that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the
indictment, its order so doing must be reversed.
Reversed and rernah~dedfor further proceedings in conforinity
to this opinion.
For abstract of argurment see UnitedState v. Keidel

al., a ate, 1)..372.

