OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

STEELE v. CULVER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

FOR THE WESTERN

COURT

DISTRICT

OF

THE

OF MICHIGAN,

UNITED

STATES

SOUTHERN

DI-

VISION.

No. 393.

Submitted June 1, .1908.-Decided October 26, 1908.

Where jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends on diversity of citizenship, the parties may be rearranged according to their real interests.
Where a party defendant should be aligned as a party plaintiff, is a
necessary partyj and is a citizen of the State of which the other defendants are citizens, the Circuit Court has not jurisdiction.
In order to confer jurisdiction on the Circuit Court, one who is a necessary party cannot be omitted merely on account of his insolvency.
A judgment against a surety cannot be impeached so long as the judgment against the principal on which it is based stands, and in a.suit
brought by the surety to set both judgments aside, the principal is
a necessary party plaintiff.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas J. Cavanaugh and Mr. L. A. Tabor, for appellecs, in support of motion to dismiss or affirm:

The defendant railroad company should be the complainant
in the case-in fact it is the party naturally burdened with the
responsibility of applying for relief. It is not made a complainant in express terms, nor is any reason set forth in the
bill why it was not made the sole complainant or at least one of
the complainants. There is no reason assigned why it is made
a defendant. No relief is asked against it. In fact, relief is
asked for it. Therefore while it appears as a defendant, in
reality it is a complainant, and there is no diversity of citizenship and no jurisdiction to entertain the bill. Doctor v. Harrington, 196 U. S. 579; Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S.
178. See also Groel v. United Electric Co. of N. J., 132 Fed.

STEELE v. CULVER.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Rep. 252; McClellan v. Kane, 154 Fed. Rep. 164; Dodge v.
Wolsey, 18 How. 340.
In this case the railh oad company is a necessary party and it,
like the other defendants, is a resident of Michigan. While it is
made a defendant the court will look beyond the pleadings and
arrange the paities according to their sides in the dispute,
Dawson v. Trust Co., supra, and when that is done the railroad
company is on the complainant's side.. The fraud alleged in
the bill of complaint is said to have been committed against
it and not against any of the complainants. Its interests are
not antagonistic to the complainants. In fact the complainants
and the defendant railroad company are friends. No difference
or collision of interests or action is alleged or even suggested
and relief is asked in behalf of the defendant railroad company.
It would seem, then, that the arrangement of the parties in this
bill is merely a contrivance between friends for the purpose of
founding a jurisdiction which otherwise would not exist and
the device ought not to be allowed to succeed.
It is the corporation as a corporation which has to determine whether it will make anything that is a wrong to the corporation a subject-matter of litigation or whether it will take
steps to prevent the wrong from being done. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Corbusv. Alaska Mining Co., 187 U. S. 455.
Until it refuses to redress the wrong no person incidentally
or otherwise injured or benefited, not even a stockholder, can
maintain a suit.
In the present case the railroad company is very deeply interested in the litigation. If the judgment is set aside or enjoined it is benefited to that extent. It is a citizen of Michigan.
It can proceed in its own behalf now or if it refuses to act an
interested stockholder might act for it in the state courts.
Mr. Edward Maher, Mr. W. J. Barnard and Mr. Ernest Dale
Owen, for appellants, opposing the motion to dismiss or affirm:
The question sought to be raised by the motion is the fundamental one as to whether the lower court had jurisdiction to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S,

entertain the bill. Such a question will come up only upon the
final hearing.
Admitting that the court has the right to align the parties
as complainant or defendant according to their real interest
in the controversy and that if the railroad company is an
indispensable party, being of the same citizenship as the
defendants in this suit, the lower court had no jurisdiction to
retain the bill, we maintain that the railroad was not an
indispensable party.
If the result of the decree were to coerce the iailroad company and the result of the decree should compel that company
to do or not to do a certain thing it might, perhaps, with more
propriety be said that it was indispensable to a final deteriination of the questions involved. This, however, is not the
case.
We have the situation, then:
First, that no attempt is made to procure any control of the
actions of the railroad company.
Second, from the inherent situation arising from the fact that
the railroad company is insolvent, it cannot be made to pay the
judgment.
That if it did pay the judgment Steele must repay the
amount at once to the company. Indeed, must pay it in the
first instance.
It would be permitting technical and empty considerations
to control against subtantial and important rights practically
presented by the record, for the court to refuse to hear the case
for Steele and the Maryland Company.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity to prohibit the collection of a judgment rendered by a Michigan state court against a railroad company, and also of a judgment against the plaintiff corporation
upon a bond given by it as surety when the railroad took the
case to the Supreme Court of the State. See Culver v. South

STEELE v. CULVER.
211 U. S.

29

Opinion of the Court.

Haven & Eastern R. R. Co., 144 Michigan, 254; Culver v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 149 Michigan, 630. The ground is that the
original judgment was got by fraud. The plaintiff Steele had
contracted with the surety company and also with purchasers
of the railroad to pay the judgment against the latter if recovered, and joins as plaintiff on the footing that he is the real
party in ipterest. The railroad company is made a defendant,
but it is a Michigan corporation, and, as the other defendants
are citizens and residents of Michigan, if it should be aligned
with the plaintiffs the necessary diversity of citizenship would
not exist. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on demurrer for
want of jurisdiction and allowed an appeal with a certificate
that the want of the requisite diversity of citizenship and consequently of jurisdiction was the sole ground of the decree.
The case is before us upon a motion to dismiss or affirm.
The appellants candidly admit that for a decision upon jurisdiction the parties may be arranged according to their real interests and that if the railroad company is an indispensable
party the decision below was right. But they urge that it is
alleged that the railroad is insolvent, that no relief is asked
against it, but it is left free to pay the judgment if it desires to
and can, and that the real parties in interest are the plaintiffs,
and especially Steele, upon whom, it is said, the burden ultimately must fall. These arguments do not seem to us to need
an extended answer. With regard to the alleged insolvency it
is a strange proposition that a defendant is not an indispensable
party to an attempt to stop the collection of a judgment against
him because at the moment his property is not sufficient to pay
his debts. The railroad was sole master of the litigation against
itself and we must assume is co6perating with the plaintiff in the
present case. It seems to us equally.strange to suggest that a
contract of a stranger with a stranger can affect the interest of
the party immediately concerned. The omission of any prayer
for relief against the railroad simply shows that properly it is to
be treated as a plaintiff in this case. Dawson v. Columbia Trust
Co., 197 U. S. 178, 180, 181.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

It is suggested that the controversy as to the judgment
against the Security Company is separable, and that relief may
be given against that at least without the presence of the railroad. But the only ground on which that judgment is complained of is that that against the railroad, upon which it is
based, was obtained by perjury and fraud. So long as the judgment against the railroad stands, that against its surety cannot
be impeached. By its bond the surety undertook to pay the
judgment, if rendered, against its principal, whether right or
wrong. If the principal remains liable under that judgment
the surety is bound to pay. Krall v. Libbey, 53 Wisconsin, 292;
Piercy v. Piercy, 1 Iredell Eq. 214, 218. But the principal can-not be relieved by a proceeding behind its back.
There is a further allegation in the bill that, pending the proceeding, Culver, the plaintiff in the original suits, was adjudged
a spendthrift, and that a guardian was appointed but was not
substituted for Culver in these suits. A hope is expressed that
if the case proceed to oral argument some reason may occur for
attributing more importance to these facts than is disclosed at
present. But that is an illusion. The bill, as we have said, is
founded solely on allegations of fraud in getting the first judgment, and must be maintained upon them if upon any. The
railroad company is an indispensable party if that issue is to be
tried. It is unnecessary to consider other objections to the suit.
This court has jurisdiction to declare the Circuit Court's
denial of its own jurisdiction correct. But we regard the decision of the Circuit Court as so plainly right that the appeal
should be dismissed as frivolous.
Appeal dismissed.

