HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

407

Syllabus.

Judge, as conceded by the Government, that the affidavit was
not, in fact, presented to the Secretary of the Interior, but
was simply filed in the local land office.
The demurrer was sustained, "for reasons given on consideration of the second count in the indictment," in the case
against F. W. Keitel et al. The case at bar comes within the
principles, applied by us in No. 287, just decided, where, in
passing upon the rulings made below in the Keitel case, it was
.held that the second count of the indictment there considered,
when the statute was correctly construed, stated no offense.
The judgment below, which involved a similar ruling, is therefore

Affirmed.

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
KAHN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. HARRIMAN.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 315, 316, 317. Argued November 3, 4, 1908.-Decided December 14,
1908.
The primary purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act is to regulate interstate business of carriers, and the secondary purpose, that for
which the commission was established, to enforce the regulations
enacted by it, and the power to require testimony is limited, as is
usual in English-speaking countries, to investigations concerning a
specific breach of the existing law; this power is not extended to mere
investigations by provisions in any of the amendatory acts in regard
to annual reports of interstate carriers, or of the commission, or for
the purpose of recommending legislation.
Quwre whether Congress has unlimited power to compel testimony in
regard to subjects which do not concern direct breaches of law, and
whether, and to what extent, it can delegate such power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Edward H. Harriman.

THE

211 U. S.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John C. Spooner and Mr. John G. Milburn, with whom
Mr. Robert S. Lovett was on the brief, for Edward H. Harriman:
Congress has conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to investigate, and in connection therewith
compel the testimony of witnesses, only in aid of its duty to
execute and enforce the provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
The commission is a body of limited powers derived exclusively from the act to regulate commerce. It is a purely
administrative body charged with specific administrative duties and invested with specific powers. Kentucky Bridge Co. v.
L. & N. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567. The restricted operation
of the act limits the powers of the commission. Neither the
province of the act or the commission is coextensive with
interstate commerce or interstate transportation. United States
v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290.
An analysis of the act shows that the commission is merely
an administrative agency for the enforcement of the provisions
of the act to regulate commerce. 1
The act is primarily an enumeration of particular duties
imposed upon common carriers; of particular acts on their
part which are prohibited; and of particular duties and powers
relating thereto conferred upon the commission. The duties
it imposes and the acts it prohibits arc the only duties and
acts of common carriers with which the act is concerned. It
is an act of details and not, of generalities. Every duty it im)oses is definitely specified, and a carrier which observes them
comlplies with the act in full. The primary function of the'
commission is to enforce the performance of those duties and
prevent the doing of the prohibited acts, and to that end the
nl('essary machinery of investigation, hearings on complaints,
'The brief contains an elaborate analysis of the act, section by
section.

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

409

Argument for Edward H. Harriman.

and judicial proceedings is provided. With respect to other
duties or acts of carriers not regulated by the act, the commission has no function to perform and it is invested with none.
Congress simply has not seen fit to regulate those acts and
duties-or to extend to them the functions of the commission.
Having defined certain duties and prohibited certain acts the
commission is created as an administrative body, not with a
general supervisory power over common carriers subject to the
act in all their operations, transactions, and relations, but generally speaking, with a power of supervision limited to the
specific requirements of the act, and with power to enforce
those requirements and determine complaints made of violations of the act after notice, answer and hearing.
The business of a common carrier covered by the act is the
business of transportation ;-the movement of traffic; reasonable, equal and public rates; equal facilities; and the functions
of the commission are limited to those aspects of its business.
The language of the act is entirely inappropriate to the creation
of a power of investigation with the aid of compulsory testimony coextensive with a visitatorial power over all the acts,
transactions and relations of a corporation, although a crporation engaged in part in interstate transportation.
There is nothing in § 20 or § 21 enlarging the power of the
commission to investigate or warranting the contention that
Congress has conferred upon the commission all the "inquisitorial powers of Congress" with respect to interstate commerce.,
The cases cited in support of the claim of an inquisitorial
power beyond the enforcement of the provisions of the act do
not sustain it. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194
U. S. 25; Interstate Commerce Commission v. C. N. 0. , & T.
P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, discussed and said not to sustain
the power contended for by counsel for the Intdrstatc Commerce Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant!

211 U. S.

Mr. Walker D. Hines; with whom Mlr. Paul D. Cravath was
on the brief, for appellant, Kahn:
The commission has no power to ask questions of persons
not connected with carriers, except to ascertain whether or
not the act has been obeyed. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Reichmann, 145 U. S. 237, 242.
The general power of the commission to inquire into the
management of the business of common carriers does not authorize these questions.
The questions related to the private business of Kuhn, Loeb &
Co., and not to the business of the Union Pacific.
The theory that under § 12 the commission has authority to
go into the private side of transactions with a railroad company on the idea that both sides of the transaction-the railroad company's side and the opposite or private side-are both
the railroad company's business, is opposed not only to the
letter, but to the spirit, of the statute, and to the policy of our
government. It is natural to permit an administrative board,
created to supervise quasi-public corporations, to inquire in a
purely administrative way into the affairs and papers of such
corporations; but it is preposterous to permit such mere administrative inquiry to be extended into the affairs and papers
of those private institutions with which the railroad company
may do business.
The commission's authority to inquire into the management
of the business of carriers is an authority to obtain informatioii
from carriers themselves, but not from private persons.
The commission's authority to require information from the
carriers themselves does not extend to matters having no connection with the general subject-matter of the act to regulate
commerce, and the questions asked Mr. Kahn have no such
connection.
The commission has no power to make inquiries of private
persons merely for the purpose of considering the propriety
of recommending additional legislation when such questions
have no relation to any inquiry as to violations of the act.

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM. 411.
211 U. S.

Argument for Interstate Commerce Commiison.

To create such a power in the commission is to give it, by
unwarrantable implication, an inquisitorial power into private
affairs over which it was never intended that thd commission
should have any supervision. The commission's investigating
power is given "for the purposes" of the act. "The purposes"
of the act are to be found alone in the requirements expressed
in the act. Those requirements can be construed and understood and applied. To go beyond that is to go into a realm of
endless speculation and uncertainty.
The commission's duty and authority are sufficiently broad
and sufficiently difficult of effective and impartial discharge
when confined to the things which Congress has required, and
should not be extended to those things which Congress did not
require, but which the commission may assume that Congress
hoped to accomplish.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg and Mr. Cordenio A. Severance, with
whom Mr.. Henry L. Stimson was on the brief, for Interstate
Commerce Commission:
The Interstate Commerce Commission, in making this investigation, had all the power of a congressional committee of
inquiry, so far as interstate carriers are concerned, and could
inquire into the management of such interstate carriers and
all the financial operations and business thereof, not only for
the purpose of regulating rates, fares and charges as provided
by the Interstate Commerce Act, but for the purpose of recommending additional legislation. See §§ 12, 20, 21 of the Interstate Commerce Act; Interstate Com. Com. v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 447, 474; Interstate Com. Com. v. Railway Co., 167 U. S.
479, 506; Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, 438.
The end which Congress is seeking to obtain by the Interstate
Commerce Act, namely, the proper regulation of interstate
commerce, being indisputably within its constitutional powers,
and Congress, by the sections of the act hereinbefore quoted,
having emphatically declared its opinion that an inquiry into

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

211 U. S.

the 'inancial operations of the carrier is a necessary and proper
means toward achieving such an end, the courts will effectuate
and not hinder the purpose of Congress.
The situation is even more serious than when a court is
called upon to pass upon the constitutionality of.a statute.
In such a case the court will not set aside the statute unless
the unconstitutionality exists beyond a -reasonable doubt.
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 531; Trade-mark Cases, 100 U. S.
96; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 514.
But the case now before the court goes even further. To
uphold these appellants in their contumacy is to prejudge
Congress and to hold, that by no rational possibility could it
legislate upon the subject-matter at issue; and this without
,permitting Congress, through the Interstate Commerce Commission, to obtain the facts upon which such legislation could
properly be constituiionally based; and without permitting
Congress itself after it shall have acquired such facts, within
its constitutional powers of debate, to consider them. As to
the power which entitles legislative committees to elicit information of the character here sought, see In re Chapman, 166
U. S. 668; People v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; People v. Sharp, 107
N. Y. 427, and Falvey & Kilbourn v. Massing, 7 Wisconsin,
630, which lay down very clearly the rule.
This inquisitorial power of the Interstate Commerce Commission has been fruitfully used. An examination of the debates of Congress and decisions of the courts will show that it
was upon information developed by the commission and reported to Congress, that the Elkins Law, the Safety Appliance
Law, the Employers' Liability Act, and the Hepburn Act, were
successively based; in other words, the inquisitorial work of
the commissio'4 has been the basis of all congressional legislation affecting interstate carriers during the past twenty years.
The contentioh that the inquiry involved the private business
of the appellants is no answer to the right of the commission
to have the inquiry answered.
Of course, sales of property by directors to their railroad

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM. 413
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company are not their private affairs; and any inquiry tending
to show that the price of the property so sold was inadequate
or fraudulent is not an inquiry into the private affairs of the
directors. Nor is an inquiry into the reasons of the directors
for withholding publication of a dividend, while they were Ongaged in private speculation in the stock oil which the dividend was declared, an inquiry into the private affairs of those
directors. Such transactions are no more private than the
business of the railroad company is private.
But even if the transactions under inquiry had not concerned men who hold official positions in the company, but were
transactions of purely private individuals, being, as they were,
relevant to the subject-matter under inquiry by the commission, their priv acy was no shield against the commission's
probe. Wigmore on Evidence, § 2192; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 46; Burnham v. Morrissey, 14
Gray, 226.
Within the sphere of inquiry entrusted to the Interstate
Commerce Commission the power to investigate the truth has
been deemed of such paramount importance to the public
that even those privileges which usually maintain in a court
of justice have been abolished by statute. No man can assert
before the Interstate Commerce Commission or before a court,
on an inquiry into matters within the purview of the Interstate
Commerce Act, that his answer would tend to incriminate or
degrade him; and his refusal to answer inquiries before that
commission not only subjects him to proceedings for contempt,
but is expressly made a crime (act of February 11, 1893; 27
Stat. L. 443).
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals; on the one side, from an order of the
Circuit Court directing the appellants, Harriman and Kahn,
to answer certain questions put during an investigation by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, and, on the other, from

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

a denial of a like order as to two other questions, answers to
which the commission had required.
In November, 1906, the Interstate Commerce Commission,
of its own motion, and not upon complaint, made an order
reciting the authority and requirements of the act to regulate
commerce (Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379), and proceeding
as follows: "And whereas it appears to the Commission that
consolidations and combinations of carriers subject to the
act, arid the relations now and heretofore existing between
such carriers, including community of interests therein, and the
practises and methods of such carriers affecting the movement
of interstate commerce, the rates received and facilities furnished therefor should be made the subject of investigation by
the Commission to the end that it may be fully informed in
respect thereof, and to the further end that it nay be ascertained whether such consolidations, combinations, relations,
community of interests, practises, or methods result in violations of said act or tend to defeat its purposes; It is ordered
that a proceeding of investigation and inquiry into and concerning the matters above stated be, and the same is hereby
instituted." A time and place was set for the first hearing,
and the inquiry thus begun was continued for about two
months, resulting in the report of July, 1907, entitled "Consolidations and Combinations of Carriers," etc. 12 I. C. C. R.
277.
In the course of the inquiry the appellant Harriman was
called by the commission and testified as a witness. At the
time of the transactions referred to he was a director and also
the president and the chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Union Pacific Railroad Company. The relations between
the Union Pacific and other connecting roads, parallel or not,
were under investigation and are set forth in the commission's
report. It is enough to say that the Union Pacific Railroad
Company is incorporated under the laws of Utah, and, as has
been asserted and assumed, has power under the state laws
to purchase the stock of other railroads, a power that it has

HARRIM:AN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM. 415
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

exercised on a large scale. Among other thIngs, it bought
103,401 shares of the preferred stock of the Chicago and Alton
Railway Company. These shares had been deposited with
bankers, Kuhn, Loeb & Company, by their owners, under an
agreement authorizing the bankers to sell them to any purchaser at such price and upon such terms as should be approved
by Messrs. Stewart, Mitchell and the witness, Harriman. He
was asked whether he owned any of the stock so deposited,
and how much, if any. These questions, under the advice of
counsel, he declined to answer.
Next he was asked with regard to stock of the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa F6 Railroad Company, bought by the Oregon
Short Line Railroad Company, another Utah corporation, the
stock of which was owned by the Union Pacific, whether it
was part of the stock that had been acquired previously by
him and two others, and whether it or any part of it was owned
by any of the three. After answering the first question, "I
think not," he,.was stopped by his counsel and refused to answer further. Again, it appearing that the Union Pacific, in
July, 1906, purchased 90,000 shares of Illinois Central Railroad stock from Messrs. Rogers, Stillman and the witness, he
was asked whether that stock was acquired by a pool of the
three, whether it was acquired with a view of selling it to the
Union Pacific, and whether it or any part of it was bought at
a much lower price than $175 a share with the intent just
mentioned. These questions the witness declined to answer.
It appearing further that Kuhn, Loeb & Company, who were the
fiscal agents of the Union Pacific, had sold to it 105,000 shares
of the Illinois Central stock on the same date, he was asked if
he had any interest in these shares, and whether they were
acquired by a pool for the purpose of selling them to the Union
Pacific. These questions the witness declined to answer.
Again, it appearing that the Union Pacific had purchased stock
of the St. Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company from
the witness since the last-mentioned date, he was asked when
he acquired the stock and what he paid for it, and again de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

clined to answer. Finally, after it had been shown that since,
July, 1906, the Union Pacific had bought a large amount of
New York Central Railroad stock, the witness was asked
whether any of the directors of the Union Pacific were interested
directly or indirectly in this stock at the time when it was sold.
An answer to this question also was declined. All these refusals to answer were persisted in after a direction to answer
from the commission. The Circuit Court ordered them to be
answered and Harriman appealed.
The petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission set
forth two other questions which the witness refused to answer,
and on which it asked the order of the Circuit Court. One was
a general one, whether he was interested in any stocks bought
between the nineteenth of July and the seventeenth of August
that appreciated, and another, more specific, was whether he
or any director bought any Union and [or] Southern Pacific
in anticipation of a certain dividend, the suggestion being that
announcement of the dividend was delayed for the directors
to profit by their secret knowledge and that they did so. With
regard to these the petition was deified, and the Interstate Commerce Commission appealed.
The appellant Kahn was a member of the firm of Kuhn,
Loeb & Company. He also was asked whether any of the directors of the Union Pacific were the real owners of any of the
shares of the Chicago and Alton Railroad deposited, as has been
stated, with Kuhn, Loeb & Company, and sold to the Union
Pacific. He was asked further in various forms whether the
before mentioned 105,000 shares of Illinois Central 'stock, or
any part of them, really belonged to or were held for any of
the directors of the Union Pacific. And again, whether at the
same time that he bought these shares he bought for Messrs.
Harriman, Rogers and Stillman the stocks they sold at the
same time that he sold his. Finally he was asked whether
the 105,000 shares, and the 90,000 shares turned in by Stillman,
Rogers and Harriman, were all bought through his instrumentality for a pool of which they and he were members, that

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

was operating in Illinois Central stocks for some months before July, 1906. All these questions he was directed by the
commission to answer, but refused. The Circuit Court ordered
him to answer, and he appealed.
Many broad questions were discussed in the argument before us, but we shall confine ourselves to comparatively narrow
ground. The contention of the commission is that it may
make any investigation that it deems proper, not merely to
discover any facts tending to defeat the purposes of the act of
February 4, 1887, but to aid it in recommending any additional legislation relating to the regulation of commerce that
it may conceive to be within the power of Congress to enact;
and that in such an investigation it has power, with the aid
of the courts, to require any witness to answer any question
that may have a bearing upon any part of what it has in mind.
The contention necessarily takes this extreme form, because
this was a general inquiry started by the commission of its
own motion, not an investigation upon complaint, or of some
specific matter that might be made the object of a complaint.
To answer this claim it will be sufficient to construe the act
creating the commission, upon which its powers depend.
Before taking up the words of the statute the enormous
scope of the power asserted for the commission should be emphasizcd and dwelt upon. The legislation that the commission may recommend embraces, according to the arguments
bofore us, anything and everything that may be conceived
to be within the power of Congress to regulate, if it relates to
commerce with foreign nations or among the several States.
And the result of the arguments is that whatever might influence the mind of the commission in its recommendations is
a subject upon which it may summon witnesses before it and
require them to disclose any facts, no matter how private, no
matter what their tendency to disgrace the person whose attendance has been compelled. If we qualify the statement
and say only, legitimately influence the mind of the commission in the opinion of the court called in aid, still it will be seen
VOL. ccxi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U.S.

that the power, if it exists, is unparalleled7 in its vague extent.
Its territorial sweep also should be noticed. By § 12 of the
act of 1887, the commission has authority to require the attendance of witnesses "from any place in the United States,
at any designated place of hearing." No such unlimited command over the liberty of all citizens ever was given, so far as
we know, in constitutional times, to any commission or court.
How far Congress could legislate on the subject-matter of
the questions put to the witnesses was one of the subjects
of discussion, but we pass it by. Whether Congress itself has
the unlimited power claimed by the commission, we also leave
on one side. It was intimated that there was a limit in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 478,
479. Whether it could -delegate the power, if it possesses it,
we also leave untouched, beyond remarking that so unqualified
a delegation would present the constitutional difficulty in most
acute form. It is enough for us to say that we find no attempt
to make such a delegation anywhere in the act.
Whatever may be the power of Congress, it did not attempt,
in the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, to do more
than to regulate the interstate business of common carriers,
and the primary purpose for which the commission was established was to enforce the regulations which Congress had imposed. The earlier sections of the statute require that charges
shall be reasonable, prohibit discrimination and pooling of
freights, require the publication of rates, and so forth, in wellknown provisions. Then, by § 11, the Interstate Commerce
Commission is created, and by § 12, as amended by later acts,
the commission has "authority to inquire into the management of the business of all common carriers subject to the
provisions of this act, and shall keep itself informed as to the
manner and method in which the same is conducted, and shall
have the right to obtain from such common carriers full and
complete information necessary to enable the commission to
perform the duties and carry out the objects for which it was
,created; and the commission is hereby authorized and required

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM. 419
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to execute and enforce the provisions of this act." District
attorneys to whom the commission may apply are to institute
and prosecute all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of
the act and for the punishment of violations of it; and "for the
purposes of this act the commission shall have power to require, by subpoena, the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of all books, papers, tariffs, contracts,
agreements, and documents relating to any matter under investigation." Then comes the provision to which we already,
have called attention, by which a witness could be summoned
from Maine to Texas, and then follow clauses for enforcing
obedience to the subpoena by an order of court and for taking
depositions, which do not need statement.
The commission it will be seen is given power to require the
testimony. of witnesses "for the purposes of this Act." 'the
argument for the commission is that the purposes of the act
embrace all tlhe duties that the act imposes and the powers
that it gives the commission; that one of the purposes is that
the commission shall keep itself informed, as to the manner
and method in which the business of the carriers is conducted,
as required by. § 12; that another is that it shall recommend
additional legislation under § 21, to which we shall refer again,
and that for either of these general objects it may call on the
courts to require any one whom it may point out to attend
and testify 'f he would avoid the penalties for. contempt.
/We are of opinion on the contrary that the purposes, of the
act for which the commission may exact evidence embrace only
complaints for violation of the act, and investigations by the
commission upon matters that-might have been made the object of compiaint./As we already have implied the main purpose of the act was to regulate the interstate business of carriers, and the secondary purpose, that for. which the commission
was established, was to enforce the regulations enacted. These
in our opinion are the purposes referred to; in other words the
power to require festimony is limited, as it usually is in Englishspeaking countries at least, to the only cases where the sacrifice

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

of privacy is necessary-those where the investigations concern a specific breach of the law.
That this is the true view appears, we think, sufficiently from
the original form of § 14. That section made it the duty of the
commission, "whenever an investigation shall .be made," to
make a report in writing, which was to "include the findings
of fact upon which the conclusions of the Commission are based,
together with its recommendation as to what reparation, if
any, should be made by the common carrier to any party or
parties who may be found to have been injured; and the findings so made shall thereafter, in all judicial proceedings, be
deemed prima facie evidence as to each-and every fact found."
As this applied, in terms, to all investigations, it is plain that
at that time there was no thought of allowing witnesses to be
summoned except in connection with a complaint for contraventions of the act, such as the commission was directed to.
"investigate" by § 13, or in connection with an inquiry instituted by the commission, authorized by the same section,
"in the same manner and to the same effect as though complaint had been made." Obviously such an inquiry is limited
to matters that might have been the object of a complaint.
The plain limit to the authority to institute an inquiry given
by § 13, and the duty to make a report with findings of facts,
etc., in the section next following, with hardly a word between,
hang together, and show the purposes for which it was intended
that witnesses should be summoned. They quite exclude the
inference of broader power from the general words in § 12, as
to inquiring into the-management of the business of common
carriers, subject to the provisions of the act, the commission
keeping itself informed, etc. They equally exclude such an
inference from § 21, the other section on which most reliance
is placed. That, as it now stands, requires an ,annual report,
containing "such information and data collected by the Commission.as may be considered of value in the determination of
questions connected with the regulation of commerce, together with such recommendations as to additional legislation

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

relating thereto as the Commission may deem necessary."
Act of March 2, 1889, c. 382, § 8, 25 Stat. 855, 862.
It is true that in the latest amendment of § 14, findings of
fact are required only in case damages are awarded. Act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 3, 34 Stat. 584, 589. But there is no
change sufficient to affect the meaning of the words in § 12,
as already fixed. If by virtue of § 21 the power exists to summon witnesses for the purpose of recommending legislation,
we hardly see why, under the same section,'it should not extend to summoning them for the still vaguer reason that their
testimony might furnish data considered by the commission
of value in the determination of questions connected with the
regulation of commerce. If we did not think, as we do, that
the act clearly showed that the power to compel the attendance of witnesses was to be exercised only in connection with
the quasi-judicial duties of the commission, we still should be
unable to suppose that such an unprecedented grant was to
be drawn from the counsels of perfection that have been quoted
from §§ 12 and 21. We could not believe on the strength of
other than explicit and unmistakable words that such autocratic
power was given for any less specific object of inquiry than a
breach of existing law,-in which, and in which alone, as we have
said, there is any need that personal natters should be revealed.
In §§ 15 and 16 are fqlrther provisions for-the enforcement of
the act,, not otherwise material than as showing the main
purpose that Congress had in mind. The only other section
that is thought to sustain the argument for the commission is
§ 20, amended by act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 7, 34 Stat.
584, 593. This authorizes the commission to require annual
reports from all the carriers concerned, with details of what is
to be shown, to which the commission may add in certain
particulars, and further "to require from such carriers specific
answers to all questions upon which theCommission may need information." The commission may require certain other reports,
and is to have access to all accounts, records and memoranda.
The section now deals at length with this matter and how ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

counts shall be kept and the like. It seems to us plain that
it is directed solely to accounts and returns, and is imposing a
duty on the common carrier only from whom the returns come.
/All that we are considering is the power under the act to
regulate commerce and its amendments to extort evidence
from a witness by compulsion. What reports or investigations
the commission may make without that aid but with the help
of such returns, or special reports as it may require from the
carrier, we need not decide/ Upon the point before us we should
\infer from the later action of Congress with regard to its resolution of March 7, 1906, 34 Stat. 823, directing the commission
to investigate and report as to railroad discrimination and
monopolies in coal and oil, that it took the same view that we
do. For it thought it advisable to amend that resolution on
March 21 by adding a section giving the commission the same
power it then had to compel the attendance of witnesses in
the investigation ordered. 34 Stat. 824. The mention of the
power then possessed obviously is intended simply to, define
the nature and extent of the power .byreference to § 12 of the
original act. The passage of the amendment' indicates that
without it the power would be wanting. The case is not affActed by the provision of § 9 of the act of June 291 1906, c.
3591, § 9, 34 Stat. 595, extending .the :former acts relating to
the attendarice of witnesses and the compelling of testimony to
"all proceedings and hearings under this Act." If we felt
more hesitation than we do, we still should feel bound to construe the statute not merely so as to sustain its constitutonality
but so as to avoid a succession of constitutional doubts, so
far as candoi permits. Knights Templar & Indemnity Co. v.
Jarman,.187 U. S. 197, 205.
Order in 315 and 316 reversed.
Order in 317 affirmed.
Petition denied.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, not having been present at the argument, took no part in the decision.

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM. 423
211 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE DAY, dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent from the opinion of the court in
this case. It seems to me that too narrow a construction has
been given to the act of Congress conferring power upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission to conduct investigations
into the affairs of corporations engaged in interstate commerce.
The court in the prevailing opinion has not placed its decision upon the want of power in Congress to legislate concerning the subject-matter of investigation in this case. The decision is based wholly upon the construction of the act of
Congress, and as I am unable to concur in- the view taken in
the opinion, I will state the grounds upon which my dissent
rests.
The reports of committees which accompanied the enactment of the Interstate Commerce Law, in its original form,
show that importance was attached to the power conferred
upon the commission to make investigations as well as to make
orders relating to specific complaints as to practices affecting
the conduct of interstate commerce and the instrumentalities
by which the same is carried on. It was to have a power of
investigation, such as had been coriferred upon similar bodies
in the States and in the English acts regulating the subject,
with a view to eliciting information important to be had, in
order to lay the basis for intelligent and efficient action in the
legislative branch of the Government to which the Constitution has delegated power to regulate commerce among the
States and with foreign nations.
In speaking of this power, Judge Cooley, the eminent cnairman of the commission, in its first annual report,"said:
" This is a very important provision and the commission will
no doubt have frequent occasion to take action under it. It
will not hesitate to do so in any case in which a mischief of
public importance is thought to exist, and which is not likely
to be brodght to its attentionon complaint of a private prosecutor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
DAY,

J., dissenting.'

211 U. S.

In numerous instances investigations have been conducted
by the commission having in view the exercise of its authority
to afford information as to the manner and methods in which
corporations engaged in interstate commerce are conducting
their business. These investigations have been undertaken
upon the initiative of the commission; witnesses have been
subpoenaed; and testimony has been taken without objection
from those interested that the power of the commission conferred by the acts of Congress had been exceeded. While these
considerations. are not determinative of the extent of the
powers conferred in the act, they are suggestive of the practical construction which those interested have put upon it.
The act itself makes provision for two kinds of investigation,
the one under § 12 upon the initiative of the commission without written complaint; the other under § 13, where investigation and orders are made upon complaint.
We are concerned in this case with an investigation undertaken upon the initiative of the commission under § 12 of the
act. That section, so far as pertinent, provides:
"That the commission hereby created shall have authority
to inquire. into the management of .the business of all common
carriers subject to the provisions of this act, and shall keep
itself informed as to the manner and method in which the same
is conducted, and shall have the right to obtain from such
common carriers full and complete information necessary to
enable the commission to perform the duties and carry out the
objects for which it was created; and.the commission is hereby
authorized and required to execute and enforce the provisions'
of this act; and, upon the request of the.commission, it shall be
the duty of any district attorney 6f the United States to whom
the commission may apply to institute in the proper court and
tot prosecute .under the direction of the Attorney General of
the United States all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of this act 'and for the punishment of
all violations thereof, and the costs and expenses of such prosecution shall be paid out of the ap-propriation for the expenses

HARRIMAN v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

DAY,

425

J., dissenting.

of the courts of the 'United States; and for the purposes of this
act the commission shall have power to require, by subpoena,
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production
of all books, papers., tariffs, contracts, agreements, and documents relating to any matter under investigation.
"Such attendance of witnesses, and the production of such
documentary evidence, may be required from any place in
the United States, at any designated place of hearing. And
in case of disobedience to a subpoena the commission, or any
party to a proceeding before the commission, may invoke the
aid of any court of the United States in, requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books,
papers, and documents under the provisions of this section."
The plain reading of this section is that for the purposes of
the act the commission shall have power to require, by subpcena, the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and the
production of books, papers, contracts, tariffs, agreements, and
documents relating to any matter under investigation. Notwithstanding the broad language used by Congress, it is now
held that the power of the commission to require testimony.
embraces only subjects stated in complaints for the violation
of the act, or investigations by the" commission upon matters
which might have been the subject of complaint. I am unable
to follow the reasoning which thus cuts down the expressed
words of the act, which. enables the commission to .require
testimony for all purposes of the act. The complaints under
the act may relate to unreasonable rates, to discriminating
practices, to the management of the affairs of the carrier as
involved in or connected with the conduct of interstate commerce, to the relations of interstate carriers with each other,
and the like matters, directly affecting corporations and individuals engaged in interstate commerce.. These things are
within the purposes of the act, but no more so, in my judgment,
than the declared purpose of the act to endow the commission
with investigating powers, having in view the ascertainment of
the manner in which interstate commerce business is con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

ducted and managed, with a view to intelligent action upon
these important subjects.
For the purposes of the act this power to require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, tariffs,
contracts, etc., relating to any matter under investigation, is
specifically conferred by Congress. To make the act read that
the power shall be conferred only for the purposes of laying
the ground for redress of specific complaints, or things which
might be the subject-matter of complaints, narrows its provisions from the broad power conferred in the language used
by Congress to powers limited to the execution of only a part
of the act. It seems to me that the restricted construction
given in the opinion has the effect to entirely reform the act
of Congress, substitbting for it, by judicial construction, a
much narrower act than Congress intended to pass, and did
in fact, pass.
In § 12, which requires the district attorneys under the direction of the Attorney General to take all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of the act, and empowers the commission for the purposes of the act to issue subpoenas and
require the production of books, papers, etc., there is in terms
conferred, as the basis of this judicial action and this power to
pummon witnesses, authority to inquire into the management
of the business of corporations subject to the provisions of the
act, in order that the commission may keep itself informed
as to the manner and methods in which the s.ime is cond!ucted,
and to obtain from common carriers thus engaged full and
complete information to enable the commission to prevent
bad practices and to perform the duties and carry out the objects for~which it was created.
Nor are the purpQses of the act for which the power to subprena witnesses, require the production of books, papers, etc.,
alone defined in § 12. In § 20 of the act, in order to enable the
commission to make its reports, it is authorized to require
from common carriers spiecific answers upon all questions upon
which the commission may need information, such reports to

-HARRIMAN v.INTERSTATE COMMERCE COM.
211 U. S.

DAY,

427

J., dissentiug..

contain a showing of the amount of the capital stock, the
amount paid therefor, the manner of payment for' the same,
etc., and § 21. of the act requires the commission to make an
annual report which shall contain such information and data
collected by the commission as may be considered of value in
the determination. of questions concerning the regulation of
commerce, together with such recommendation as to additional legislation relating thereto as the commission may deem
necessary. These things are "purposes of the. act". no less than
the hearing of complaints and making orders touching the same.
For all these purposes § 12 conferred the power which was
sought to be exercised in this case. That inquiries might take
a wide range is shown in the acts of Congress giving immunity
to persons required to testify, and providing that no person
shall be excused from attendance and testifying, or from producing books, papers, etc., before the Interstate Commerce
Commission for the reason that his answers or the production
of such testimony may tend to criminate him, and granting
immunity from prosecution because of such compulsory testimo.ny.
The function of investigation which Congress has conferred
upon the Interstate Commerce Corrinmission is one of great. importance, and while of course it can only be exercised within
the constitutional limitations which protect the individual
from unreasonable searches and seizures and unconstitutional
invasions of liberty, the act should not be construed so narrowly as to defeat its purposes.
In the base of Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447, 474, this court had under consideration the provisions of § 12, authorizing the Interstate Commerce Commission to' conduct an investigation upon its own motion, and
in that case this court said:
"An adjudication that Congress could not establish an administrative body with authority to investigate the subject
of interstAte commerce, and with power to call witnesses before it, and to require the production of books, documents and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
DAY, J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

papers relating to that subject, would go far towards defeating the object for which the people of the United States placed
commerce among the States under national control. All must
recognize the fact that the full information necessary as a basis
of intelligent legislation by Congress from time to time upon
the'subject of interstate commerce cannot be obtained, nor
can the rules established for the regulation of such commerce
be efficiently enforced otherwise than through the instrumentality of an administrative body representing the whole country, always watchful of the general interests, and charged with
the duty not only of obtaining the required information, but
of compelling by all lawful methods obedience to such rules."
And in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Railway, 167
U. S. 5P36, this court' said:
"It [the commission] is charged with the general duty of inquiring as to the management of the business of railroad companies, and to keep itself informed as to the manner in which
the same is conducted, and has the right to compel complete
and full information as to the manner in which such carriers
are transacting their business."
In the case of Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 438, this court said:
"The commission was endowed with plenary administratiVe
power to supervise the conduct of carriers, to investigate their
affairs, their accounts, and their methods of dealing, and generally to enforce the provisions of the act."
In the case last cited it was held that a rate filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission could only be attacked for
unreasonableness by'a proceeding before the commission, with
a direct view to a change in the rate. The power thus invested
in the commission, no less than the power conferred in this
case, affected shippers from Maine to Texas, and required -a
shipper making complaint against a common carrier for carriage in a remote part' of the country to obtain redress for un-reasonable rates only by a proceeding before the Interstate
.Commnerce Commission, which ordinarily sits in the capital at

HUTCHINS v. BIERCE.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

Washington. Legislative power vested in Congress over interstate commerce embraces the whole country, and while it may
be extremely inconvenient to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of the, papers, etc., throughout a
domain so large as ours, that consideration does not detract
from the power of Congress over the subject-matter.
Assuming, for the purposes of this case and the construction of the statute, that the relations of directors in a corporation engaged in interstate commerce to the sales of stock to
such corporation may be the subject of inquiry when Congress
confers such power upon the commission, I think that in this
act Congress has conferred such power. If such is the proper
construction of the act, it follows that the commission had a
right to propound the questions which the,Circuit Court directed to be answered. In my view the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concur in

this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN also

dissents in No. 317.

HUTCHINS, TRUSTEE, v. WILLIAM W. BIERCE,
LIMITED.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

OF

HA-WAII.
No. 447.

Argued November 29, 1908.-Decided December 14, 1908.

An appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii dismissed
because not final. Cotton v. Hawaii, ante, p. 162.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

