BEERS v. GLYNN.
211 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

BEERS v. GLYNN, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.1
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES' COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW
YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 45.

Argued December 9, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, the power of the State
in respect to taxation is very broad, and includes exemption of
certain classes of property from taxation to which other property
is subjected, and different classes may be taxed by different methods
of procedure without violating the due process and equal protection
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The provisions in the New York Inheritance Tax Law, chap. 713 of
Laws of 1887, amending chap. 483 of the Laws of 1887, for taxing
personalty of non-resident decedents who had owned realty in that
State, are not unconstitutional as denying to those interested in
estates of that class of decedents due process or equal protection
of the laws, because no provision is made for taxing personalty of
non-resident decedents who had not owned any realty in New York.

THE facts which involve the constitutionality of §§ 1 and 15

of the New York Inheritance Tax Law are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lucius H. Beers for plaintiffs in error:
Chapter 713 of the Laws of 1887, in so far as it applied
to the property of non-residents, was not capable of verbal
separation as between provisions relating to the property of

non-residents who owned land in the State and provisions
relating to the property of non-residents who did not own
land in the State, nor can the legislature have intended that
it should apply to the former and not to the latter. Being
unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as to the
Original docket title Lord v: Glynn, Comptroller, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

211 U. S.

property of such non-residents as did not own land in New
York, in that it takes their property without due process of
law, it was therefore unconstitutional as to the property of
all non-residents.
It is quite clear from its language that the act of 1887 did
not authorize any tribunal or officer to assess the. tax on property of non-resident decedents, except in cases where the
non-resident had owned land in New York. But if any question had existed it would have been settled by the decision of
the Court of Appeals in Matter of Embury, 19 App. Div. 214;
affirmed by Court of Appeals on opinion below, 154 N. Y. 746.
Such being the provision of the act, it follows that the act was
unconstitutional with respect to the large class of non-resident
decedents who did not own real estate, because it sought to
deprive the persons interested in such estates of their property
without due process of law. Hagar v. Reclamation District,
111 U. S. 701, 710; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 355,
356; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S. 660, 669; Lent v. Tillson,
140 U. S. 316, 328; Fallbrook Irr. Dist. v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
112, 157; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 590; Carson v. Brockton Comm., 182 U. S. 398, 401.
The constitutional and unconstitutional portions of a statute, to be separable, must each be capable of being read by
itself; and further, even in a case where constitutional pro'visions may be severed from those which are unconstitutional,
the rule applies only where it is plain that the legislative body
would have enacted the legislation with the unconstitutional
provisions eliminated. Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269;
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Trade-Mark Cases, 100
U. S. 82; Allen v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80; Baldwin v. Franks,
120 U. S. 678; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262; Illinois Central
R. R. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; Employers' Liability Cases,
207 U. S. 463.
Applying tlis rule to the present case, it will be seen that
if the portions of the act of 1887 which relate to non-resident

BEERS v. GLYNN.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

decedents who do not own land in the State,-which provisions are unconstitutional under familiar decisions of this
court,-are stricken from the act, there is no provision left in
the act imposing a tax in this case.
The clauses above referred to have been brought to the attention of the highest court of New York State and that court
in Matter of Embury, supra, held that as to non-residents who
do not own land no officer or tribunal has been given power
to assess the tax. With respect to non-residents who do not
own land, the act of 1887 is therefore unconstitutional under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution, in that it attempts to take their property without due
process of law. Hagar v. Reclamation.District, 111 U. S. 701,
710, and other cases cited, supra.
The rule of separability requires that the remaining portion of the act, after the unconstitutional provisions have been
eliminated, shall be such as it is clear that the legislature
would have enacted without the eliminated portions. That
rule is not satisfied in the case at bar.
The discrimination shown by the attempt to tax the bonds
of the decedent while bonds of the same class belonging to the
estate of her husband, who died only ten days before her, were
not taxed, constitutes a violation of the rule requiring the
equal protection of the laws. Minnesota Iron Co. v. Kline,
199 U. S. 593, 598; Bell's Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.
232, 237; Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S.578, 582; Minneapolis
Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, 29; Magoun v. Illinois Tr.
& S. Bank, 170 U. S.283, 293; A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Matthews,
174 U. S.96, 104; Mo., K. & T. Ry. v. May, 194 U. S.267, 269;
St. John v. New York, 201 U. S. 633, 636; Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Matter of City of New
York, 190 N. Y. 350, 360.
Mr. D. Cady Herrick for defendant in error:
The power of the legislature of the State of New York to
impose an inheritance tax upon personal property within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

State of New York, belonging to non-residents, has been
upheld both by the courts of New York and this court. Matter of Romaine, 127 N. Y. 83; Matter of Whiting, 150 N. Y. 29;
Eidman v. Martinez, 184 U. S. 582, and cases cited.
The imposition of the tax in the case at bar did not deprive
plaintiffs in error of their property without due process of law.
The decision in this case of the Court of Appeals of the State
of New York, is conclusive upon this court, that the statute
under which the tax was imposed was not in violation of
the state constitution; and that the proceedings had, did not
deprive the plaintiffs in error of their property without due.
process of law, within the meaning of the state constitution.
Neithed the statute under which the tax was imposed nor the
proceedings by which it was imposed, are obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The Fourteenth Amendment in no wise un 'ertakes to control the power of a State to determine by what process legal
rights may be asserted or legal obligations be enforced, provided the method of procedure adopted for, these purposes
gives reasonable notice, and affords fair opportunity to be
heard before the issues are decided. I. C. R. v. Iowa, 160
U. S. 393.
There is nothing in the Federal Constitution to prevent the
State of New York from imposing a tax upon personal property within the State of non-residents who own real estate
therein, and exempting from 'taxation personal property
within the State of non-residents owning no real estate therein.
Bell's Gap Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 236, 238; Pacific
Express Co.'v. Seibert, 142 U: S. 339, 351; Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 287, 299; Metropolitan Street
Ry. Co. v. New York, 199 U. S. 1, 47.
The plaintiffs in error i.,-usent no case for this court under
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, showing that
they have been deprived of their property without due process
of law, or that they have been denied the equal protection of
the law.

BEERS v. GLYNN.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Inequality of taxation presents no question for review under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution. Hayes v.
Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167
U. S. 461, 464; Travelers' Ins. Co. v. Connecticut, 185 U. S.
372.
The plaintiffs in error were not denied the equal protection
of the law. A law cannot be held unconstitutional because
there. are no means provided for enforcing it against certain
classes of persons or property.
The plaintiffs in error cannot assert the alleged defect in
the law, because not affected by it. Cooley's Constitutional
Limitations (7th ed.), 232; Lee v. State of New Jersey, 207 U. S.
67; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented in this case is the validity of a
collateral inheritance tax on certain property bequeathed to
plaintiffs in error by Emily M. Lord, deceased. The testatrix
and her husband had lived for many years at Morristown,
New Jersey. She died there January 18, 1892. At the time
of her death she owned real estate situate in the State of
New York, and certain personal property on dcposit in a safe
deposit company in the city of New York. The inheritance
tax was claimed under chap. 713 of the Laws of the State of
New York for 1887, entitled "An act to amend chap. 483 of
the Laws of 1885, entitled 'An act to tax gifts, legacies andcollateral inheritances in certain cases.' "
That act has twenty-six sections. It is sufficient, however,
to refer to a part of § 1 and § 15:
"SEC. 1. After the passage of this act all property which
shall pass by will or by the intestate laws of this State, from
any person who may die seized or possessed of the same while
a resident of this State, or if such decedent was not a resident
of this State at the time of death, which property, or any part
thereof, shall be within this State,
VOL. CcxI-31

.

. . shall be and is

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

subject to a tax of five dollars on every hundred dollars of the
clear market value of such property."
"SEC. 15. The Surrogate's Court in the county in which
the real property is situate of a decedent who was not a resident of the State, or in the county of which the decedent was
a resident at the time of his death, shall have jurisdiction to
hear and determine all questions in relation to the tax arising
under the provisions of this act, and the surrogate first acquiring jurisdiction hereunder shall retain the same, to the
exclusion of every other."
It appears that the husband of the testatrix died in Morristown only ten days before his wife, but as he owned no real
estate situate in the State of New York no inheritance tax was
collected from his estate. In claiming the equal protection
of the law under the Fourteenth Amendment counsel for
plaintiffs in error, after pointing to the discrimination between
the two cases, contend that"The act of 1887, in so far as it applied to the property of
non-residents, was not capable of verbal separation as between provisions relating to the property of non-residents
who owned-land in the State and provisions relating to the
property of non-residents who did not own land in the State,
nor can the legislature have intended that it should apply
to the former and not to the latter. Being unconstitutional
under the Fourteenth Amendment as to the property of such
non-residents as did not own land in New York, in that it
takes their property without due process of law, it was therefore unconstitutional as to the property of all non-residents."
Also that'-"The imposition of a tax under the act of 1887 on the
property bequeathed to these plaintiffs in error cannot be
made without such a discrimination as will deny to them the
equal protection of the laws."
. We do not understand that the Court of Appeals of the
State of New York has decided that the State has no power
to collect an inheritance tax where the only property belong-

BEERS v. GLYNN.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to the decedent situate within the State of New York is
personalty, but simply that no provision has been made for
reaching such a case.
Both parties refer to the Matter of Embury, 19 App. Div.
214, which was decided in June, 1897, by the First Department, and affirmed by the Court of Appeals on the authority
of the opinion of the Appellate Division, 154 N. Y. 746. In
that case it appears from the opinion in the Appellate Division that Philip Embury was a citizen and resident of New
Jersey, and died at West Orange in that State after the passage
of the act of 1887. He had no real estate in New York, but
only certain personal property. He left a will, which was duly
probated in the county of his residence, and thereupon the
executors withdrew the personal property from New York
to New Jersey, and settled up the estate in accordance with
the terms of the will. The opinion, after referring to § 15 of
the act of 1887, said (pp. 216-217):
"The statute, therefore, only conferred on the surrogate jurisdiction in the case of such non-resident decedents as should die
seized of real estate within the surrogate's county.
In other words, the statute of 1885, as amended by the act of
1887, declared such of Embury's property as was in New York
taxable, but omitted to give the Surrogate's Court jurisdiction
to impose the tax, a situation to which an expression of the
Court of Appeals in The Matter of Stewart, 131 N. Y. 284, is
applicable: 'It is not enough for the legislature to declare
that such interests are taxable. If no mode is provided for
assessing and collecting the tax the law is imperfect and cannot, as to such interests, be executed.' A tax cannot be legally
imposed unless the statute, in addition to creating the tax,
provided for an officer or tribunal who shall appraise and assess
the property on notice to the -owner. Stuart v. Palnier, 74
N. Y. 188; Remsen v. Wheeler, 105 N. Y. 575. The 'principle
decided in the cases cited applies to the transfer tax as well
as to assessments for public improvements. Matter of McPherson, 104 N. Y. 321. . . . It is apparent, therefore,

484-•

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

that when the executors took the deposits and the bank stock
out of .the State for distribution, no tax had been imposed
*upon such property, and there was no method provided by
law by which a tax could legally be imposed upon it. What
they did they had not only the right, but it was their duty, to
do. The legal title to the property in this State vested in them
as the personal representatives of their testator by force of the
laws of New Jersey. Matter of Bronson, 150 N. Y. 1. They
were bound to take possession of it and make distribution
according to the decree of the court having jurisdiction of the
estate. Had a tax been imposed on the property, or had a
statute providing for its imposition been in force, it would
have been their duty to have paid it or to have requested the
imposition of the tax, as the case might be, before removing
the property."
Subsequently the Court of Appeals, in The Matter of Fitch,
160 N. Y. 87, 90, said, referring to the Embury case, that it
"held by an affirmance on the opinion below, that while the
statute declared such of Embury's property to be taxable as
was situated in the city of New York, nevertheless as it omitted
to authorize the surrogate to impose the tax, the order made
by that officer was without jurisdiction."
Under this condition an inheritance tax may be collected
where the 'decedent owns both personal and real property
within the State of New York and not where the only property belonging to the decedent situate within the State is
personalty. But though the operation of the statutes creates a
difference, this even if intentional is not of itself sufficient to
invalidate the tax. The power of the State in r3spect to the
matter of taxation is very broad, at least so far as the Federal.
Constitution is concerned. It may exempt certain property
from taxation while all other is subjected thereto. It may tax
one class of property by one method of procedure and another
by a different method. Belt's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, 238; Pacific Express Company v. Seibert, 142
U. S.339; Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania,167 U. S. 461, 464;

KNOP v. MONONGAHELA COAL CO.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

Travelers' Insurance Company v. Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364;
Michigan Central Railroad v. Powers, 201 U.*S. 245. The right
of exemption has been applied to succession taxes (Magoun v.
Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 299), in which
this court said:
"Nor do the exemptions of the statute render its operation
unequal within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The right to 'Make exemptions is involved in the right to select the subject of taxation and apportion the public burdens
among them, and must consequently be understood to exist
in the lawmaking power wherever it has not in terms been
taken away. To some extent it must exist always, for the
selection of subjects of taxation is of itself an exemption of
what is not selected. Cooley on Taxation, 200; see also the
remarks of Mr. Justice Bradley in Bell's Gap Railroad v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232."
Indeed, it may be laid down as a general rule that mere
inequalities or exemptions in the matter of state taxation are
not forbidden by the Federal Constitution.
There is no error in the rulings of th~e courts of the State of
New York, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

KNOP v. MONONGAHELA RIVER CONSOLIDATED
COAL AND COKE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

No. 449.

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued December 18, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

The mere construction of a state statute does not of itself present a
Federal question.
'Where the constitutionality of a state statute, as construed by'the

highest court of the State, is admitted, and only its applicability
to the facts is denied, no question as to the construction or applica-

