OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

within the police powers of the State, the statute cannot be
held to be repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because of the nature or character of the
regulations which the statute embodies, unless it clearly appears that those regulations are so beyond all reasonable relation to the subject to which they are applied as to amount
to mere arbitrary usurpation of power. Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. S. 425. This, we think, is clearly not the case. So, also,
as the statute makes a classification based upon a reasonable
distinction' and one which, as we have seen, hasbeen generally
applied in the exertion of the police power over the subject,
there is no 'foundation for the proposition that the result of
the enforcement of the statute will be to deny the equal protection of the laws.

Affirned.
MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS ACID & FERTILIZER
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 32.

Argued December 1, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Where the Atate court decides that a trustee in bankruptcy can avoid
a preference under the state law against the contention that the exertion of such power conflicts with the bankrupt law, and that if
the preference is given by a member of a firm that the trustee need
not establish that there were other individual creditors, Federal questions are involved and necessarily decided, and the judgment does not
rest on non-Federal grounds broad enough to sustain it and may be
reviewed by this court under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Where no question is made below that the state court was not competent to authorize the trustee to prosecute, judgment in his favor will
not be, reversed when presumably the want of authority from the
bankrupt court would have been supplied if challenged.
The authority to preserve liens of pending actions under subd. I of § 67
of the bankrupt law extends to causes of action under state law and
is cumulative, and not in abrogation of rights under the state law.
Where, as in Louisiana, copartnership creditors coequally share with
individual creditors in the individual estates of the members of the
firm, copartnership creditors are prejudiced by preferences made by

MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS FERTILIZER CO.
211 U. S.

497

Opinion of the Court.

a member to individual creditors, and, if the preference is illegal
under state law, the trustee can succeed to a suit of the partnership
creditor in the state court even if there be no other individual creditors; but the distribution of the preferential payment when paid in
depends, as between the individual and copartnership creditors, on
the provisions of § 5 of the bankrupt law.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. B. Dubuisson, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William J. Sandoz, with whom Mr. G. L. Dupr6 was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The law of Louisiana considers the property of the debtor
as the common pledge of all his creditors. C. C. 1969. As a
general rule, therefore, it contemplates an equality of right
in all creditors as to all the property of the debtor, existing at
the time an obligation against the debtor arises, unless a creditor, as the result of some lawful contract or from the particular
nature of the debt to which the law gives a preference, has
acquired a higher and privileged right to payment than that
which belongs to the general mass of creditors. C. C. 1968.
Under that law the creditors of a partnership are preferred as
to the partnership assets over the individual creditors of the
members of the firm. 'C. C. 2823. This privilege does not,
however, conversely exist, since it has been held from an early
day in-that State that individual creditors of members of the
firm have no preference on the individual assets of the estate
of the members of a firm, and therefore the partnership creditors and the individual creditors have a concurrent right to
payment out of the individual estates. Morgan v. Creditors,
8 Martin (N. S.), 599; Flower v. Creditors, 3 La. Ann. 189..
As a result of the common pledge which all creditors are
presumed to have upon the property of their debtors the law
of Louisiana gives to every creditor an action to revoke any
contract made in fraud of their common right of pledge.. C.
VOL. ccxi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

:211 U. S.

C. 1970-1977. As a consequence it is permissible to attack,
even collaterally, any mere fraudulent and simulated (that is,
fictitious and unreal) transfer of his property by a debtor.
See authorities collected in 2 Hennen's Digest, verbo Obligations VII, p. 1031. This right, however, even in case of bad
faith, does not enable a creditor to avoid a real contract of a
debtor unless the act has operated to the injury and prejudice
of creditors who were such at the time the act sought to be
revoked was done. C. C. 1937. Every contract, however, is
deemed to have been in fraud of creditors and prejudicial to
their rights "when the obligee knew that the obligor was in
insolvent circumstances and when such contract gives to the
obligee, if he be a creditor, any advantage over other creditors
of the obligor." C. C. 1984. From this rule are excepted sales
of property or other contracts made in the usual course of.
business and all payments of a just debt in money. C. C. 1986.
But this exception does not include the "giving in payment
to one creditor to the prejudice of others any other thing than
the sum of moneyldue." C.C. 2658.
In 1903 the commercial firm of 0. Guillory & Co., composed
of Olivrel Guillory, Olivrel E. Guillory and. Ambrois Lafleur,
carried on business in the State of Louisiana. In 1904 the
senior member, Olivrel Guillory, sold various parcels of real
estate, which were his individual property, as follows: One
sale to J. A. Fontenot, another to Alexandre Miller, and a third
to John A. and Samuel Haas. All these sales were, apparently,
on their face not susceptible of being assailed by creditors, because in form they were embraced within the excepted class
to which we have referred.
On February 2, 1905, three corporations-which, for the
sake of brevity, we shall designate as the Wooden Ware, the
Fertilizing and the Elevator Companies-sued in a state district court the firm of 0. Guillory & Co., the senior member,
0. Guillory, individually, and the purchasers at the respective
sales above mentioned. As to the first company, the cause of.action was based upon an alleged open account for thepurchase

MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS FERTILIZER CO.
211 U. S.

499

Opinion of the Court.

price of goods sold to the firm prior to the making of the sales
by the senior partner of his individual property above mentioned. As to the two other corporations the action was based
upon notes held by the corporations signed by the individual
members of the firm, and averred to have been given for the
price of merchandise bought, also prior to said sales, from the
corporations by the firm, it being alleged that the notes signed
by the individual members had been received by the corporations as cumulative, and not in any' wise as a novation of the
firm obligation to pay the price of the goods by it bought.
The sales were attacked as fraudulent simulations, or, if not
unreal, as subject to be revoked, because they were made at a
time when the firm was notoriously embarrassed or insolvent
to the knowledge of the purchasers, and were not within the
excepted class, because they were, in substance, not what
they purported to be, but were givings in payment of the individual property of 0. Guillory in order to prefer the purchasers.
The prayer was for a judgment for the amount of the debts,
for a revocation of the sales, for a direction that they be sold
by judicial decree to pay the judgments to be rendered, the
payments to be made by preference out of the proceeds arising
from the sale.
The cause was put at issue by general denials filed for the
firm, for 0. Guillory individually and for the purchasers. Before trial, in consequence of an adjudication in bankruptcy
as to Guillory & Co., made on April 28, 1905, a petition was
filed in the cause by W. J. Sandoz, alleging himself to be "the
duly appointed and qualified trustee of the bankrupt estate of
0. Guillory & Co." It was alleged that "since the institution
of this suit the. said 0. Guillory & Co. have made application
for and been adjudged bankrupts in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Louisiana." And it
was further averred that under the bankrupt law of the United States "the trustee succeeds to the rights of the creditors
who may have brought actions to annul any transactions

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

affecting the property of the bankrupts, and the law makes it
his duty to prosecute the same for the benefit of the said bank.rupt estate in his capacity as trustee." The prayer of the petition was that Sandoz; as trustee, "be made a party plaintiff
in this suit and duly authorized to prosecute the same to final
judgment for the benefit of said bankrupt estate of 0. Guillory
& Co." The state court, after notice to the parties, entered an
order substituting Sandoz as party plaintiff in his capacity
"as trustee of the estate of 0. Guillory & Co. .
.
with
authority to prosecute the same to final judgment for the benefit of said bankrupt estate."
.Sandoz, trustee, was thereafter the sole plaintiff, and prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court to reverse a judgment
of the trial court sustaining the sales. The Supreme Court,
for reasons given in an elaborate opinion, held the sale to
Fontenot to have been simulated and sustained the validity
of the Haas and Miller sales. It was found that Olivrel Guillory
had made the sales of his individual property principally for the
purpose of assisting the firm which was embarrassed as the
result of a decline in the price of cotton held by the firm; that
at the.time Guillory had no individual debts whatever, except
one of three thousand dollars due to Miller and another of six
thousand dollars, which was assumed and provided for in the
Haas sale. Granting a rehearing asked by trustee Sandoz, a
different conclusion was reached as to the Miller sale. The
court found that when that sale was made Guillory owed Miller three thousand dollars, and although the price of seventyfive hundred dollars was actually paid to Guillory, yet as immediately after the sale Guillory had paid the three thousand
dollar debt which he owed to Miller, "the transaction was
an indirect preference of the son-in-law (Miller) over other
creditors by a disguised giving in payment." This writ of
error sued out, by Miller was allowed by the chief justice of
the state court.
By the assignments of error it is contended, first, that the
court erred in testing, at the instance of Sandoz, trustee, the

MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS FERTILIZER CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

validity of the sale to Miller by the state law instead of by the
bankrupt law of the United States, which was alone controlling;
second, under the bankrupt law of the United States the court
erred in holding that the transfer by Guillory of his individual
property to pay Miller, his individual creditor, was revocable,
although there was no other individual creditor to be prejudiced thereby; and, third, that, in any event the court erred
in holding that prejudice could have resulted under the bankrupt law to individual creditors by the sale to Miller withoutascertaining whether there were such creditors who could have
been prejudiced. In other words, that the court erred in decreeing the sale to Miller to the extent of three thousand dollars to be revocable as a prejudicial preference, and at the same
time relegating to the bankruptcy court the determination of
whether there were any individual creditors who could have
been prejudiced; thus decreeing a preference and yet declining
to determine a question which was essential to be ascertained
before a preference could be adjudged.
Our jurisdiction is challenged, first, because it is urged no
Federal question was set up or claimed in the trial court, and
therefore no such question was cognizable by the Supreme
Court; second, because no Federal question was raised in or
decided by the Supreme Court; third, even if incidentally a
Federal question may have been passed upon below, nevertheless the court based its conclusions wpon a non-Federal
ground broad enough to sustain its judgment. The first question is involved in the second, because if the court below decided a Federal question we may not decline to review its action in so doing upon the assumption that the court transcended
its powers under the state law by passing on a questioi, which
it hadno right to examine because not raised in the trial court.
The second contention embraces an irrelevant element, that
is, that no Federal question was raised in the court below,
since if such a question was expressly decided by the court our
duty to review may likewise not be avoided by assuming that
the court decided a question.not raised in the cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

The proposition, therefore, reduces itself to this: Did the
court below expressly decide a Federal question adversely to
the plaintiff in error?
In its opinion on the rehearing the court said:
"The trustee in bankruptcy, was, on his own petition, made
a party plaintiff and was authorized by order of court to prosecute the suit to final judgment for the benefit of the bankrupt
estate. Neither the capacity of the trustee nor his right to
stand in judgment have been questioned. It is argued, however, by counsel for Miller that the partnership alone was adjudged a bankrupt and not the members as individuals, and
that as Miller, under the bankrupt act of 1898, is entitled to be
paid by preference over partnership creditors out of the net
proceeds of the individual estate of 0. Guillory, plaintiffs were
not prejudiced by the payment of the note held by Miller out
of the individual assets of the debtor. The answer to this
contention is that the petition of the bankrupt shows that
0. Guillory filed schedules of his individual debts and of his
individual property. 'Where a firm goes into bankruptcy it
is a proceeding against each and every member, and both the
firm and individual assets must be administered in bankruptcy.'
Collier on Bankruptcy, p. 60. Hence all rights of preference
must be determined by the court having jurisdiction of the
insolvency."
In view of the statement that no question was raised "as to
the capacity of the trustee and his right to stand in judgment,"
and the fact that the record does not contain the full proceedings had in the bankruptcy court, and the further fact that
no question as to the capacity of the trustee is raised in the
assnignment of errors, we take it that the intimation made by
the court concerning the effect of the adjudication of a firm
as being also an a(]uldication of the individual estates of the
inrmbl'rs was but a method of reasoning resorted to by the
court to sustain its decision concerning the right of the trustee
to avail of the state law under the circumstances of the case,
irrespective of the rule as to preferences provided in the bank-

MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS FERTILIZER CO.
211 U. S.

503

Opinion of the Court.

rupt law, and, further, to support its conclusion that it was its
duty to abstain from determining whether there were individual
creditors who were prejudiced, and to remit that question to
the court in which the bankruptcy proceedings were pending.
But thus limiting the passage referred to it nevertheless
results that the court below both considered and necessarily
decided two distinct Federal questions: First, the right of the
trustee to avoid a preference under the state law, although it
was contended that the exertion of such power was in conflict
with the bankrupt law; and, second, that the preference might
be avoided under the state law at the instance of the trustee
without establishing that there were creditors of the individual
estate. So far as the third contention concerning jurisdiction it
is apparent from what we have just said that it is without merit.
testing
While it is true that the court applied the state law iri
the existence of the preference, such application of that law is
obviously not alone broad enough to sustain its conclusion that
the trustee under the bankrupt law had the right to avail of
the preference under the state law, and this is also true concerning the ruling that there was power to determine the preference under the state law without previously ascertaining
the existence under the bankrupt act of individual creditors.
We come then to the merits. Eliminating, as we have done,
the expressions of the court below, as to the effect of the adjudication in bankruptcy of the partnership upon the estates
of the individual members, we need not approach the very
grave question which would arise for consideration if that
subject had been decided by the court below. In re Stokes, 106
Fed. Rep. 312; Dickas v. Barnes, 140 Fed. Rep. 849; In re
Bertenshaw, 157 Fed. Rep. 363.
While § 5 of the bankrupt act expressly authorizes an adjudication in bankruptcy against a firm, the controlling provisions following are the direct antithesis of the rule prevailing
in the State of Louisiana.
Thus, subdivision f of § 5 commands that "the net proceeds
of the partnership property shall be appropriated to the pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ment of the partnership debts, and the net proceeds of the
individual estate of each partner to the payment of his individual debts. Should any surplus remain of the property of
any partner after paying his individual debts, such surplus
shall be added to the partnership assets and be applied to the
payment of the partnership debts." To enforce these provisions the act compels (sub. d) the keeping of separate accounts of the partnership property and of the property belonging to the individual partners; the payment (sub. e) of the
bankrupt expenses as to the partnership and as to the individual
property proportionately; and, permits (sub. g) the proof of
the claim of the partnership estate against the individual estate,
and vice versa, and directs the marshalling of the assets of the
partnership estate and the individual estates, "so as to prevent preferences and secure the equitable distribution of the
property of the several estates."
Now, by § 60 of the bankruptcy law, as amended by the act
of 1903, it is provided that a person shall be deemed to have
given a preference "if, being insolvent he has, within four
months before the filing of the petition or after the filing of
the petition, and before the adjudication

.

.

.

made a

transfer of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement of such . . . transfer will be to enable any one of
his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than
any other of such creditors of the same class." It is obvious
that if at the time of the alleged preferential transfer to Miller
there were no other creditors of the individual estate of Guillory
than Miller under the rule laid down by the bankrupt act,
the transfer to him of assets of the individual estate in payment of an individual debt did not constitute a preference.
That it might have constituted a preference under the state
law results from the difference in the classification made by
the state law on the one hand and the bankruptcy law on the
other. So, also, it is evident, having regard to the separation
between the partnership and individual estates made by the
bankrupt act and the method of distribution of those estates,

MILLER v. NEW ORLEANS FERTILIZER CO.
211 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

that if there were no individual creditors and the sum paid to
Miller was returned to the estate as a preference, it would be
his right to at once receive back by way of distribution that
which he was obliged to pay in upon the theory that it was a
preference.
The questions then to be decided are these, 1st, Was the
trustee authorized by the bankrupt law to avoid the sale to
Miller to the extent of the three thousand dollars which constituted the giving in payment under the state law? And,
2d, if so, was it incumbert on the trustee, under the bankrupt
act, to such recovery to show the existence of individual creditors at the time the giving in payment to Miller took place
who were prejudiced thereby, and if not was t e trustee obliged to show the existence of individual creditors at the time
of the adjudication in bankruptcy who would be prejudiced
in the distribution of the bankrupt estate if the giving in payment to Miller was not annulled?
As the suit by the creditors was brought within four months
before the adjudication in bankruptcy, their right to a lien or
preference arising from the suit was annulled by the provisions of subdivision f of § 67 of the bankrupt law. But that
section authorized the trustee, with the authority of the court,
upon due notice, to preserve liens arising from pending suits
for the benefit of the bankrupt estate, and to prosecute the
suits to the end for the accomplishment of that purpose.
First National Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141. It is inferable
that the parties proceeded upon the erroneous conception that
the state court, where the suit was pending, was competent
to authorize the trustee, but as no question on that subject
was made below or is here raised, we may not reverse the
judgment in favor of the trustee because of the absence of authority from the bankrupt court, when presumably the want
of authority would have been supplied had its absence been
challenged. Assuming, therefore, that the trustee was properly authorized, it follows that he was entitled to preserve and
enforce the privilege or lien, which arose in favor of the cred-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

itors, resulting from their pending action, even although the
cause of action arose from the state law, and the application
of that law was essential to secure the relief sought. To the
accomplishment of this end the bankrupt law was cumulative
and did not abrogate the state law. See Keppel v. Tiffin Savings Bank, 197 U. S. 356.
Undoubtedly, the trustee, in prosecuting the suit to judgment was obliged to prove the existence of the facts which were
essential under the state law, since to hold otherwise would be
but to decide that he could recover ivithout proof of his right
to do so. But as under the state law creditors of the partnership had a coequal right to payment with the individual creditors of a member of the firm out of his individual estate, it
follows that even if there had been no individual creditor but
Miller,. recovery was justified because of the prejudice suffered
by the partnership creditors as the result of the giving in payment made by Guillory to Miller. In view of the distinction
between the estates of partnerships and the estates of the members of the firm, which is made by the bankrupt law, and the
method of distribution for which that law provides, of course
the trustee will hold the fund as an asset of the estate of the individual member, and primarily for the benefit of his creditors.
Although, on proof of the claims against .such individual estate, if it be that Miller is the only individual creditor he will
be entitled, by way of distribution, to the full amount paid
in-by him because of the method of distribution ordained by the
bankrupt law, that fact does not establish that there was a
necessity, ifi
order to avoid the preference under the state law,
to make proof that at the time of the alleged giving in payment there were other individual creditors who were prejudiced.
'While the power in the state court to pass on the question of
preference involved the duty of deciding whether, at the time
of the assailed transaction there were creditors to be prejudiced,
that duty did not involve ascertaining what creditors, at the
time of the adjudication in bankruptcy, were entitled to participate in the distribution. The one was within the province

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U.S.

Syllabus.

of the state court for the purpose of the case before it; the other
was a different question, depending on independent considerations exclusively cognizable in the bankruptcy court. The
state court was, therefore, right in so deciding.

Affirmed.
UNI1TED STATES v. BIGGS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 289.

Argued December 16, 17, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, followed as to the power of this
court to review judgments in criminal cases at the instance of the
Government under the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2546, 34 Stat. 1246.
The timber and stone act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89, as amended
by the act of August 4, 1892, c. 375, § 2, 27 Stat. 348,1 while prohibiting the entryman from entering ostensibly for himself but in reality
for another, does not prohibit him from selling his claim to another
after application and before final action. Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425.
An indictment for conspiracy to defraud the United States by improperly obtaining title to public lands will not lie under § 5440,
Rev. Stat., where the only acts charged were permissible under the
land laws.
When this court in affirming a judgment in a criminal case under the
act of March 2, 1907, c. 2546, 34 Stat. 1246, has decided on a broad
ground that the Government cannot prosecute the case, it is not
necessary for it to decide the other questions involved which thereby
become irrelevant?
157 Fed. Rep. 264, affirmed.
I For an abstract of the timber and stone act see note in Williamson
v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 455.
2 The point not passed on was, as stated in the'syllabus of the opinion
in the case below: An indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5440 for conspiracy
to defraud the United States, which sets out a number of overt acts on
different dates, is either bad for duplicity, as charging more than one
conspiracy, or if held to charge a single continuing conspiracy, the
offense was consummated when the first overt act was committed, and
from that date the statute of limitations began to run.

