OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

RUSCH v. JOHN DUNCAN LAND AND MINING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No.-53.

Argued December 14, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

The decision of the highest court of the State that a statutory notice
complies with the statute is determinative.
Where title is taken subject to statutory provisions for redemption, the

exercise of the right of redemption so reserved does not deprive the
owner of- his property without due process of law.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. 0. H. Reed, with whom Mr. E. C. Chapin was on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. F. Carey, with whom Mr. C. C. Lancaster was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by defendant in error, hereinafter called the land and mining company, against plaintiff
in error in the Circuit Court for the county of Gogebic, State
of Michigan, to remove a cloud from the title to certain lands
caused by a tax deed held by plaintiff in error, and to compel
a reconveyance tq that company of ihe land described therein.
The foundation of the suit and the questions in it depend
upon the tax laws of the State.
The bill alleged that the land and mining company was the
owner in fee simple of the lands, and that Albert H. Rusch,
the plaintiff in error here, held ta tax deed therefor, issued by
the auditor general of the State for delinquent taxes for the
years 1889 to 1901, both inclusive, for which plaintiff in error
paid the sum of $648.74. That the deed was issued after the
provisions of Act No. 229 of the Laws of 1897, Public Acts 294,
went into effect, and that the notice given by plaintiff in error
to the owners of the land of the sale to him did not comply

RUSCH v. JOHN DUNCAN CO.
211 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

with the provisions of the tax law. It was alleged that plaintiff in error claimed absolute title to the land by virtue of the
tax deed and the notice which he claithed to have served upon
the then owners of the -lands, because the six months allowed
for redemption had expired and no redemption had been made.
An offer by the land and mining company to reftuld the amount
paid by plaintiff in error with the percentage and costs required by the laws is alleged.
The answer of plaintiff in error admitted. certain of the allegations of the bill, denied others, and set up, with a recitation
of circumstances, the sufficiency of the notice to cut off the
right of redemption of the owners of the lands. Aild it alleged
that the Act No. 229 of thePublic Laws of 1897 with the
amendments thereto violated certain sections of the constitution of, the State of Michigan and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
After proofs taken the Circuit Court dismissed the bill.
The court held that the notice given by plaintiff in error to the
predecessors in title of the land and mining company of the
sale of- the lands for taxes and the issuing of deeds therefor
was sufficient under the statute to cut off the right of redemption, and considered that, in view of such holding, it was not
necessary to pass on the constitutionality of Act No. 229. The
Supreme Court of the State, however, decided that the notice
was insufficient and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court.
Plaintiff in error then sued out this writ of error, asserting
jurisdiction in this court, because he contends a question under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States is presented.
It.
will be observed that the Circuit Court held that the notice of the tax sale was sufficient and that the Supreme Court
decided that it was insufficient. Of course, the decision of
the Supreme Court is determinative, and equally, of course, if
there is nothing else in the case but a matter of statutory construction, we have nothing to do with it. And that such is
the case a brief statement will demonstrate.

OCTOBER.TERM

1908.

Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

In August, 1902, plaintiff in error purchased from the State,
under the provision of its statutes, tax titles to the lands
involved in this case, receiving two deeds therefor, one conveying a portion of the lands and the other conveying the
remainder. Each deed contained the following proviso: "Provided, however, that this indenture is subject to the relevant
conditions imposed by Act No. 229 of the Public Acts of 1897
as amended." That act requires the grantee in a tax deed,
before instituting proceedings to obtain possession, to serve
upon the original owner, as shown by the records in the office
of the register of deeds, a notice giving such original owner a
period of six months from the time of service of the notice in
which he may redeem the property by paying to the owner
of the tax title the amount invested therein, and 100 per cent
in addition thereto, and the further sum of $5.00 for each description of land contained in the tax deed. Plaintiff in error
attempted to give that notice and its sufficiency constituted
the controversy in the state courts.
The trial court held it sufficient, as we have seen; the Supreme Court held it insufficient. The decision of the Supreme
Court would seem to settle the meaning of the statute, and to
get rid of the effect of the decision plaintiff in error attacks.
the constitutionality of thestatute. He is put thereby in the
dilemma of attacking the law upon which he relies for title.
The argument by which this anomaly is sought to be sustained
is somewhat involved, but, as we understand it, its ultimate
reliance is the contention that by the proceedings under the
tax laws the State acquired the absolute title to the lands and
conveyed that title to plaintiff in error, and that the aim of
Act No. 229 is to divest such title and transfer it to another,
and therefore it is further contended the property of the plaintiff in error is taken without due process of law. There is also
a contention, based upon the construction of the laws, that
they are unequal in their operation.
If the title was taken subject to redemption it cannot be
said to be divested without due process of law if redemption

REID v. UNITED STATES.
211 U.S.

Syllabus.

was exercised according to law. And how redemption should
be exercised and how it could be cut off depended upon the
provisions of the statute and, therefore, the best answer to the
assumption of plaintiff in error, that he acquired an indefeasible title, is the answer given by the Supreme Court of
the State, whose province it is to pronounce the meaning of
the statutes of the State without question by this court. The
court said: "The deeds which the defendant received from the
State are expressly made subject to the relevant conditions

imposed by Act No. 229, Public Acts of 1897, as amended.
Whatever the title whiciA the State held, it sold to defendant
[plaintiff in error] an interest in the lands which was liable to
be divested." And the court sustained the bill and ordered a
decree to be entered in accordance with its prayer.

Judgment affirmed.
REID v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 552.

Argued December 11, 14, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Suits can be maintained against the sovereign power only by its per..
mission and subject to such restrictions as it sees fit to impose, Ka.
wananloa v. Polyblank, 205 U. S. 349, and a statutory change in the
ordinary business of the courts will not be held to extend that per-.
mission when the general policy as to such suits is maintained. United States v. Daicour,203 U. S.408.
The act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c.517, deals with general, and
not special, jurisdiction, and nothing in §§ 5, 6, or 14 extended the
right of review of judgments of the District Court sitting as a court of
claims under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, and a
writ of error will not le to review a judgment in favor of the Government on a claim of less than $3,000.
Courts must take notice of the limits of their jurisdiction, and the
Government should not consent to allow a suit against it to proceed
if the court has not. jurisdiction.
VOL.

cexi-34

