MORGAN v. ADAMS.
Counsel for Parties.

211 U. S.

resori to that body for relief. It is a very great hardship to
subject the carriers to possibly conflicting regulations and leave
them uncertain which government may rightfully assert its
controlling authority. So it was said in the McNeil case that
the order there "asserted a power concerning a subject directly
covered by the act of Congress to regulate commerce, and the
amendments to that act, which forbid and provide remedies to
prevent unjust discriminations and the subjecting to undue
disadvantages by carriers engaged in interstate commerce."
This statement was made as an additional reason for holding
the state action invalid, and seems in conflict with the holding
in this case.
I am authorized to state that MR.

JUSTICE WHITE. joins in

this opinion.

MORGAN v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE-COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 50.

Argued December 9, 10, 1908.-Decided January 11, 1909.

Although the estate may amount to more than $5,000, if the aggregate
interest of plaintiffs in error is less than that amount, and the balance
of the estate goes to defendants in error, the necessary amount in
controversy does not exist to give this court jurisdiction of an appeal
from a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
setting aside a will. Ovcrby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214, distinguished.
Writ of error to review 29 App. D. C. 198, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. Hilton Jackson for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. J. Darlingtonand Mr. S. Herbert Giesy for defendants
inerror.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review the judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, confirming the
judgment of the Probate Court, entered upon a verdict of a jury
upon issues framed under a caveat filed against a paper writing
alleged to be the last will and testament of Julia M. Adams.
The will was presented for probate by Decatur Morgan, who
was named therein as executor, and who, with his wife, Jennie
G. Morgan, were the principal legatees therein. Defendants in
error, who were respectively nephews and nieces of the deceased, filed a caveat against the probate of the will, alleging the
incapacity of the deceased to make a will, and also alleging undue influence -and fraud and coercion exercised upon her by the
Morgans and other persons. An answer was filed denying the
allegations of the caveat, and the following issues were framed
for submission to the jury: (1) Was the written paper propounded as the last will and testament of the deceased executed
in due form of law? (2) Was the testatrix, at the time of executing the will, of sound and disposing mind? (3) Was it procured by the undue influence of Decatur Morgan or Jennie G.
Morgan, or other person or persons? (4) Was it procured by
fraud or coercion of either of the Morgans, or other person or
persons?
A jury was impannelled to try the issues, and the questions
in the case turn upon certain instructions given by the court
upon the second and third issues. The other two, that is, the
first and fourth issues, were withdrawn by defendants in error.
The verdict of the jury was adverse to the plaintiffs in error on
the two issues submitted. Judgment was in due course entered,
denying the probate of the will, which judgment was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals. 29 App. D. C. 198.
A question is presented as to the right of plaintiffs in error
to bring the case to this court. Defendants in error contend
the amount in dispute is less than the necessary amountto confer juiisdiction. The total value of the estate is $7,394.50, only

MORGAN v. ADAMS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

$4,144.50 of which axe bequeathed to the Morgans, the balance
of the estate goes to defendants in error, except $250.00 bequeathed to the Epiphany Church. The matter in dispute, it is
hence contended, is nearly $1,009 less than the jurisdictional
amount.
A similar question came up in Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S.
214. The case was a contest of a will. The plaintiffs in error in
this court offered its probate on the ground that the testator was
a resident of Georgia when he made the will, not of the District
of Columbia, and that his personal estate passed under the'lais
of Georgia to plaintiffs in error, who were next of kin of the
testator. They were unsuccessful in the court below and then
brought the case here, and a motion was made to dismiss, because the interests of plaintiffs in error were several and each
interest less than five thousand dollars, and that, therefore, the
matter in dispute was less than that sum and this court had no
jurisdiction. The motion was denied, this court answering that
the value of the estate was the matter in dispute. This, however, was put upon the ground that the question in the case
was whether an estate valued at nine thousand dollars should
pass, as provided in the alleged will, which, in effect, excluded
the next of kin, or in the mode provided by the law of the domicil of the decedent for the transmission of an intestate estate.
The purpose of the case therefore, was, it was said, not to seek
an allotment to them of their interests, but an adjudication
that the alleged will was invalid, and that that contention was
advanced by virtue of a claim of common title in the ri.ext of
kin of the decedent'in the corpus of the estate derived fron the
alleged law of the domicil of the deceased. In other words, it
was held in such case that where parties seek a recovery under
the same title and for a common and undivided interest, the
sum sought to be recovered, not the share of each individual
claimant, constitutes the matter in dispute. And for this see
Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3, and New Orleans & Pacific Railway v. Parker, 143 U. S. 42, 51, 52.
The case at bar is distinctly different. The legacies -to the

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

plaintiffs in error, of course, depend upon the validity of the
will. That constituted. their common title, but the sum of
their interest is only $4,144.50, which is less than the amount
necessary to give jurisdiction to this court, nor would the necessary amount be reached if the legacy to the Epiphany Church
be added.
Writ of error dismissed.

[END OF VOLUME

211.]

[Per curiam opinions, decisions on petitions for certiorari
and list of cases disposed of without consideration by the
court will appear in a subsequent volume.]

