OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Counsel for Parties.

211 U. S.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
CER2IORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 351.

Argued December 17, 18, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Findings of fact made by the Circuit Court which were not objected to
and which accompanied the questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, held in this case to be sufficient to justify entering judgment thereon after this court had responded to the questions certified.
The issuing of bonds in payment of a subscription to railroad stock by
an officer, charged with the duty of ascertaining whether conditions
precedent had been fulfilled, raises a presumption of their fulfillment
and of the proper issuing of the bonds upon which a lawful holder of
the bonds is entitled to rely until it is-overcome by evidence to the
contrary. In this case nothing in the findings overcomes such presumption.
In construing written instruments the entire instrument will be considered and not single words or phrases, and the intent reached even
if technical meanings be disregarded; and so "on condition" interpreted as meaning a covenant or agreement.
Although county bonds may have been authorized "upon condition"
that the railroad company assisted expend the proceeds as specified,
if the condition is in fact merely a covenant or agreement, as in this
case, the subsequent failure of the corporati6n to perform cannot be
pleaded by the county against a bona fide holder for value.
In the absence of clearest proof coupoil bonds intended for the market
will not be presumed to have been issued under such conditions as
would destroy their salability.
157 Fed. Rep. 33, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ernest Macpherson, with whom Mr. John W. Lewis was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue and Mr. George Du Relle with whom
Mr. John J. McHenry, Mr. John C. Doolan and Mr. Attilla
Cox, Junior, were on the brief, for respondent.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.
The record and proceedings in this cause are in this court
by virtue of a writ of certiorari issued to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The action was brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States by Quinlan against Green
County on certain bonds and coupons attached thereto, purporting to have been issued by Green County. The jurisdiction was based upon diversity of citizenship.
The petition alleged that the plaintiff was "the holder and
owner" of the bonds named; that the bonds and coupons were
duly executed and issued, were due and unpaid, and prayed
judgment for their face value with interest.
The defendant filed a plea in abatement to the jurisdiction,
alleging, in substance, that the plaintiff was not the real holder
and owner of the bonds, and that the jurisdiction of the court
was invoked fraudulently. Certain allegations contained in
this plea were, on motion, stricken therefrom, and no exception was taken to the order. A reply to the plea was filed,
denying its allegations. Thereupon it was agreed that the
issues of law and fact should be tried by the court without a
jury, and that the plea should be deemed a part of the answer,
which was that day filed. In addition to the facts alleged in
the plea the answer set up in defense (1) a denial of all the allegations of the petition; (2) that. there was no consideration for
the bonds; (3) that they were obtained by fraud; (4) that recovery upon some of the coupons was barred by the statute of
limitations; (5) that the bonds were issued in payment of a
subscription to the stock of the Cumberland & Ohio .RailroAd
upon two conditions, namely, that the railroad should be con.structed in a certain designated manner and that the county
first should be exonerated from a prior subscription to the bonds
of another railroad company, neither of which conditions had
been performed. The plaintiff filed a reply, denying the alle.gations of the answer. There were further pleadings, which are
unimportant here. After trial, the court rendered the follow.ing judgment:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

"This action, by a stipulation in writing, having been heretofore submitted to the judgment of the court without the
intervention of a jury, and the court having heard the evidence
and the arguments of counsel, and being now sufficiently adVised, makes part of this judgment the following: 'Finding of
Fact.'
"1. The court finds that the plaintiff is a citizen of the State
of New York, and was so when this action was instituted on
March 28, 1899, and that the plaintiff was then the bona fide
holder for value of the bonds and coupons sued on, and fully
entitled to sue the defendant thereon in this court.
"2. That the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company was
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Kentucky, with power to receive a subscription to its
capital stock from the defendant, Green County, and said
county was authorized conformably to law to make a subscription to said capital stock and to pay for the same in bonds
of said county.
"3. That June 17, 1869, there was, as appears from the
records thereof, presented to the Green County Court by commissioners of said railroad companythe following request:
"'We, the undersigned, commissioners of the Cumberland &
Ohio Railroad Company, hereby request that the County Court
of Green. County submit to a vote of the qualified voters of
said county the question, "Whether said Court shall subscribe
for and on behalf of said county, and in pursuance of the provisions of the charter of said railroad company, two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars to the capital stock of said company, payable in the bonds of said county, having twenty
years to run and bearing six per cent interest from date, upon
the coriditi0n that said company shall- locate and construct
said --ilroad through Green County and within one mile of
the town of Greensbufg in said county, and shall expend the
amount so subscribed within the limits of Green County; and
also upon the further conditions that said bonds shall not
be issued or said county pay any part of either principal or in-

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

terest on said amount subscribed as aforesaid until said county
of Green shall be fully and completely exonerated from the
payment of the capital stock subscribed for by the County
Court of said county for and on behalf of said county to the
Elizabethtown & Tennessee Railroad Company.'"
"4. That on the same day, namely, on June 17th, 1869,
the County Judge of Green County, acting alone and as the
County Court, entered an order in said Court in the following
language:
" 'Present: Thos. R. Barnett, Judge..
"'Whereas the Commissioners of the Cumberland & Ohio
Railroad Company by virtue of the authority delegated to*
them by the charter of said company, have requested the
County Court of Green County to order an election in the
said county of Green, and to submit to the qualified voters of
said county the question whether said county court shall subscribe for and on behalf of said county, two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Cumberland &
Ohio Railroad Company and payable in the bonds, of said
county, having twenty years to run and bearing six per cent
interest from date, and upon condition that said company
shall locate and construct said railroud through the said county
of Green, and within one mile of the town of Greersburg, in
said county, and shall expend the amount so subscribed within
the limits of Green County; and also upon the further condition that said bonds shall not be issued or said county pay
any part of the principal or interest on said amount subscribed
to said Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company, until said
county of Green is fully and completely exonerated from the
payment of the capital stock voted by said county, and authorized to be subscribed by said Green County Court to the
Elizabethtown & Tennessee Railroad or any part of the interest thereon. It is therefore, ordered by the court that an
election by the qualified voters of Green County, at the voting
places in said county, be held and conducted by the several
officers as prescribed by law for holding elections, on the third

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

day of July, 1869, to vote on the question as to whether or
not the said County Court shall, for and on behalf of said
county subscribe two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to
the capital stock of the said Cumberland & Ohio Railroad conditioned and to be paid, as above stated.'
"5. That at the election held pursuant to said order there
were cast in favor of said proposition and subscription a majority of the votes of the qualified voters of said county, and
this fact, upon being duly ascertained, was certified by the
proper officers as required by law.
"6. That on the third day of June, 1870, the County-Judge
of said county, acting alone and as the county court of said
county, entered an order in said court as follows:
" 'Present: Thomas R. Barnett, Judge.
" 'Whereas, in pursuance of an order of this Court made on
the 17th day of June, 1869, an election was held in the said
County of Green, on th; third day of July, 1869, at the several precincts of said county, and-it appearing that a majority
of the qualified voters at said election decided that the county
of Green should subscribe for two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars of the capital stock of the Cumberland--& Ohio Railroad
Company; now it further appearing that said election was
held in conformity with the law, and in accordance with the
provisions of the charter of said company, now, therefore, I,
Thomas R. Barnett, the presiding judge of the Green County
Court, by virtue of the authority in me vested by law, and to
carry out the wishes of said voters, do hereby subscribe for
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars of the capital stock of
said Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company, for and on behalf of said county of Green, which subscription is to be paid
in the bonds of said county as prescribed in said order of submission,-and this subscription is made with the conditions set
out in the order of this Court, ordering said election and now
of record in the office of this county.'
* "7. That on the 12th day of October, 1871, the said county
Judge of said county, acting alone and as the county court of

.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.

211 U. S.

587

Opinion of the Court.

said county, entered an order in said court in the following
language:
"'Present: Thomas R. Barnett, Judge.
"'On motion oL E. H. Hobson, director of the Cumberland &
Ohio Railroad, it is ordered that Z. F. Smith, president of the
Cumberland & Ohio Railroad, be, and he is hereby authorized
to have printed for the county of Green the bonds to the amount
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, the amount of the
subscription of Green County to the said railroad, in the following denominations, to wit, the same to be conditioned as
specified in the order submitting the vote to the said county:
125 bonds at $1,000 ........................
200 bonds at
500 .......................
250 bonds at
100 ......................

$125,000 00
100,000 00
25,000 00
$250,000 00'

"8. That pursuant to all that was done, as aforesaid, the
defendant, Green County, issued and delivered to the said
Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company $250,000 of its bonds
of the description aforesaid except that the said conditions were
not stated therein, in payment of'said subscriptions to said
capital stock, and thereupon there was delivered to said county
in payment thereof, and said County received, and has ever
since held and owned, the certificates of the said railroad company for the 2,500 shares of $100 each of its capital stock so
paid for by said bonds.
"9. That the $47,509 of bonds and coupons sued on in this
action were part of the bonds thus issued and delivered to said
railroad company in payment for said stock.
"10. That while the proposed line of said railroad was located through said county from its northern line to its southern
line, and within. one mile of Greensburg, yet that only about
five miles of said railroad has ever been constructed or attempted tb be constructed in said county, the part thus constructed extending from the northermost line of said county

. OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

to the town of Greensburg, the county seat; which town is located about fifteen miles from the southernmost line of the
county and about as distant from any other line of the county
except the northern line.
"11. That only $150,000 of the bonds thus issued, or the
proceeds thereof, were expended within the limits of Green
county. No other part of said bonds was expended in said
county.
"12. That with said $150,000 of said bonds the grading,
bridging and tunnelling on the track of said railroad was done
and paid for over the five miles aforesaid, but no further, and
when this was done, the work on the railroad was suspended
for some years. Afterwards the rails and ties and superstructure generally were put upon the track. theretofore graded
Ld the railway was completed from the northernmost line of
the county to Greensburg, under the terms of its lease, by the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company at its own expense,
and not with any of the bonds issued as aforesaid by the deifendant.
" 13. That on the 15th day of August, 1872, at a called term
of the Green County Court, over which Thomas R. Barnett,
County Judge, presided, and no justice of the peace being
present, the following order was entered by said Court:
" 'Present: Thos. R Barnett, Judge.
" 'Application was this day-made to the presiding judge of
the County Court of Green county, by the President and
Board of Directors of the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad. Company to issue the balance of the bonds of said county to the
amount of the subscriptions of said county of Green to said
Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company, and the court being
sufficiently advised, it is ordered by the court that the balance
of said bonds be and they are hereby ordered to be issued, the
same to be signed by the judge of said county court of Green
county, and countersigned by the clerk of said court, as required by the charter of said company.'
"14.. That except as to the number of the bond and the

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

589

Opinion of the Court.

amount agreed to be paid therein the bonds sued on were each
of the following, namely:
"'United States of America,
" 'Couity of Green, State of Kentucky,
$500.00
" 'For the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad.
" 'Twenty years after date, the county of Green, in the State
of Kentucky, will pay to the holder of this bond the sum of
five hundred dollars with interest thereon at the rate of six
per cent per annum, payable semiannually upon presentation
of the proper coupons hereto attached, the principal and interest being payable at the Bank of America, in the City of
New York.
"'In testimony whereof, the judge of said county of Green
has hereunto set, his hands and'affixed the seal of 'said county,
on the first day of April, A. D. 1871, and caused the same to
be attested by the county clerk, who has also signed the coupons hereto attached.
"'[Green County Seal.]
T. R. BARNETT, Judge.
"'D. T. TowLEs,VClerk.'
"As appears on the face of each of said bonds there was no
recital therein of any, of the facts herein found to be true.
"15. That the plaintiff knew when he purchased the bonds
sued on that the railroad had not been constructed in Green
county otherwise than as herein found to be the fact, namely,
from the northern line'of said county to the town of Greensburg, but no further.
"16. That in the year 1868, upon a proposition therefor being
submitted to the vote of the qualified voters of Green County,
the majority of said qualified voters voted in favor of a propo,,ition to subscribe for $300,000 of the capital stock of the
Elizabethtown & Tennessee Railroad Company, and upon the
said result of the election being properly ascertained and certified the county judge of Green county, sitting alone and as
the county court of said county, made and entered of record
in said court the following orders:

590

OCTOBER TERM., 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

"'1868. Green County Court, May Called Term, 1868, 20th
Day of May.
"'Present: T. R. Barnett, Judge.
"'This day T. R. Barnett, Presiding Judge, and D. T. Towles,
Clerk of the Green county court, this day produced their certificate in words and figures as follows, v'iz: We, T. R. Barnett, Presiding Judge, and D. T. Towles, Clerk of the Green
county court, duly authorized to compare the Poll Book of
Green county, certify that an election held in said county at
the various voting places in said county, on the 16th day of
May, 1868, on the question whether the ceounty court of Green
county shall, for and on behalf of said county, subscribed for
three thousand shares in capital stock of Elizabethtown &
Tennessee Railroad Co., to be paid for in the bonds of said
county, payable in twenty years and bearing six per cent interest payable semi-annually in the city of New York, with
interest coupons attached thereto, and that 586 votes were
cast for said subscription and 204 against said subscription.
"'May 29th, 1868.
"'T. R. BARNETr.
"'D. T. ToWLES.
""It is therefore ordered by the court that the said vote be,
and is now, entered of record, as. follows, to wit: 585 votes cast
for said subscription, and, 204 votes were cast against said
subscription, showing that there is a majority for said sub* seription of three hundred and eighty-two votes.
" 'It is now, therefore, ordered that the clerk of this court,
for and on behalf of the county of Green, make said subscription on the terms specified in the order submitting the question
to a vote as aforesaid.'
"17. That no formal or express exoneration of said county
from the payment of said last'named ' subscription was ever
made or attempted, but nothing further has, up to this date,
ever been done in respect to it, and neither bonds by the county
nor stock by the said last named railroad company have ever

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

59

Opinion of the Court.

been issued or delivered in execution of said orders or under
the terms of said subscription.
"Upon consideration of the facts hereinbefore found to be
true, and of the opinion of the Court of Appeals, in the case of
J. D. Shortell v. Green County, the court, in deference to said
opinion, has reached the following
"Conclusions of Law.
"1. That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover -because the
conditions upon which the subscription for the capital stock
of the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company was made and
upon which the bonds sued on were issued have not been performed or complied with, and
"2. That the failure to -recite in the bonds any of the facts
herein found to be true, or any of the conditions upon. which
the bonds were issued, is immaterial as against the defense
that there was a failure to perform the said conditions.
"Judgment.
"In consideration of the premises it is considered and adjudged by the court that the plaintiff's petition be and it is
dismissed and that the defendant recover of the plaintiff its
costs herein expended, and it may have execution therefor."
The defendant filed no exception or objection to the findings
of fact, but the plaintiff excepted to the judgment and sued
out a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which, after
the response by this court to a question certified to it (205
U. S. 410), reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court, with
direction to enter a judgment for the plaintiff. The question
to be determined is, whether on the findings of fact the Court
of Appeals erred in ordering judgment for the plaintiff.
We think, although the defendant contends to the.contrary,
that the findings 'of fact, which accompanied the judgment
of the Circuit Court, afford ample foundation for a final judgment. They were not objected to by the defendant at the
time, and it was content to submit the case for judgment upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

them. Nor has anything been advanced in argument which
leads us to doubt their accuracy,. or to desire that they should
be more complete.
The defendant's counsel has not confined his argument to
the questions presented by the record. It seems expedient,
therefore, simply to determine the questions deemed to arise
on the record, and stop there.
When the case was here before it was decided that the
county had the power to issue the bonds, upon the approval
of the qualified voters, and that (following the ruling of the
highest court of Kentucky in this respect) the voters might
impose conditions upon the issue. The approval was given,
and the conditions imposed were expressed in the vote, as
follows:
" .
upon condition that said company shall locate
and construct said railroad through the said county of Green,
and within one mile of the town of Greensburg, in said county,
and shall expend the amount so subscribed within the limits
of Green County; and also upon the further condition that
said bonds shall not be issued or said county pay any part of
the principal or interest on said amount subscribed to said
Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company until said county of
Green is fully and completely exonerated from the payment
of the capital stock voted by said county and authorized to be
subscribed by said Green County Court to the Elizabethtown
& Tennessee Railroad."
Bonds to the amount of $250,000 were issued, and delivered
pursuant to the vote, to the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company, and some of them have come to be legally owned by the
plaintiff. There was consideration for them in 2,500 shares of
the stock of the company, which were delivered to the county
and have been held by it up to the present time. There is not
the slightest evidence of fraud in their issue.
The real defense is that the bonds were void because the
conditions expressed in the vote, which are said to be indispe.isable prerequisites to their validity, have not been fulfilled.
"\

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

593

Opinion of the Court.

The conditions relied on in defense are two, and they are subject to different considerations.
The condition that the bonds should not be issued until the
county had been "exonerated" from a subscription theretofore authorized to be made to the stock of the Elizabethtown
& Tennessee Railroad is a condition precedent to the lawful
issue of the bonds. As these bonds contained no recital importing that the conditions had been performed, it was open
to the county to show, even against a purchaser for value*before maturity without notice, that the conditions had not been
performed. But the issue of bonds in payment of a subscription to railroad stock by an officer charged with the duty of
ascertaining whether the conditions indispensable to the-lawful
issue had been fulfilled, raises a presumption of their fulfillinent prior to the issue. A lawful holder of the bonds is entitled to rely upon this presumption, although he incurs the
danger that the presumption will be overcome by evidence.
If he wishes absolute security in this respect, he must insist
upon a recital. This. much was determined by the decision
of this court when the case was here before. Quinlan v. Green:
County, 205 U. S. 410. That case did not decide that there
was a presumption of performance arising out of the length
of time, during which no claim was made in respect of the
Elizabethtown & Tennessee Railroad subscription, but that
there was a presumption of performance before the issue of
the bonds. When we come to look at the facts found by the
Circuit Court there, is nothing to rebut this presumption. On
the contrary, everything tends to support it. Even the wide
range of the argument for the defendant did not suggest a
single fact which could, to the slightest extent, control the presumption. The conclusion follows that the exoneration from
the prior subscription had happened before the issue of the
bonds to the Cumberland & Ohio Railroad Company. That
condition has been performed, and is not available as a defense.
We must next consider the effect of the provision in the
vote, that the subscription to the stock payable in bonds shall
VOL. ccxi -38

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
. Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

be "upon condition that said company shall locate and construct said railroad through the said county of Green, and within
one mile of the town of Greensburg, in said county, and shall
expend the amount so subscribed within the limits of Green
County." If this part of the vote imposes a condition upon
the lawful issue of the bonds or upon the obligation of the
county to pay them, the defense must prevail, for the condition
has not been performed. Only $150,000 have been expended
within the limits of the county,. and the railroad, though constructed to Greensburg, a distance of five miles, was not carried
further, although it was located from north to south through
the county, a distance of twenty miles. It is not conclusive
that the obligation thus imposed upon the railroad company
is called a condition. It frequently has been the case that the
word condition has been used in written instruments ir a
looser and broader sense than the law attaches to it. In ascertaining the true meaning of instruments in writing courts
do not confine their attention to single words, phrases, or sentences. The meaning is sought from the whole instrument,
viewed in the light of the subject with which it deals. This
general rule of interpretation often makes it manifest that that
which is called a condition is really but a covenant or agreement, to be performed independently of the counter obligation with which it is associated. When such an intent is discovered the courts have no difficulty in giving it effect, though
the result be to disregard the technical meaning of the word
condition.- Stanley v. Colt, 5 Wall. 119; Sohier v. Trinity
Church, 109 Massachusetts, 1; Episcopal City Mission v. Appleton, 117 Massachusetts, 326; Cassidy v. Mason, 171 Massachusetts, 507; Clapp v: Wilder, 176 Massachusetts, 332; Post v.
Weil, 115 N. Y. 361; Clark v. Martin,49 Pa. St. 289; Watrous v.
Allen, 57 Michigan, 362; Scoville v. McMahon, 62 Connecticut,
378; Hartung v. Witte, 59 Wisconsin, 285.
A consideration of the vote of the county leaves no doubt
that that part of it which prescribed the nature of the railroad
construction was not a condition. It would have been easy

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

595

Opinion of the Court.

to have postponed the obligation to pay the bonds until the
construction had been completed, as desired by the county.
Such a provision as that in Provident Life and Trust Company
v. Mercer County, 170 U. S. 594, would have been enough.
Indeed, the draftsman need not have looked afield. Nothing
need have been done except to use the same language with
reference to construction which he used in this vote with reference to exoneration from the prior subscriptioh to the stock
of another railroad. There he said that the subscription should
be "upon 'the further condition that said bonds shall not be
issued or said county pay any part of the prin'cipal or interest"
-until the exoneration had happened. The studied omission
of this apt, clear and emphatic language from the part of the
vote dealing with the construction of the Cumberland & Ohio
Railroad is of controlling significance. If the question rested
upon this comparison of language alone, it would be quite
enough to warrant the inference that it was not intended that
the condition which was imposed in the one case should be
equally imposed in the other. This conclusion is confirmed by
a consideration of the ,subject-matter with which the vote
dealt. It would have defeated the very-purpose for which the
bonds were issued -if the obligation to pay them had been made
conditional upon the completion of the construction desired.
The railroad, to whose stock the County was authorized to
subscribe, was not constructed, and needed the proceeds of
the bonds to complete the work of construction. By accepting
bonds upon the ternis proposed it came under the obligation
to ex)end the amount subscribed within the limits of the
county. As the subscription to the stock was to be paid for
by the bonds, the amount subscribed was the amount of the
bonds. The bonds which the county was authorized by the
legislature to issue were described in the law as ",payable to
bearer, with coupons attached, bearing any rate of interest not
exceeding six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually in the
city of New York, payable at such times as they may designate not exceeding thirty years from date " The bonds thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

described were evidently designed for the market. They could
pass from hand to hand, since they were payable to bearer.
The interest was represented by detachable coupons, and was
payable at the chief money center of the country. It is manifest that the bonds were intended to be issued and delivered
to the railroad company before the construction began. It
would require the very strongest words in the vote to convince
us that it was intended to attach to such bonds a condition
which would destroy their obligation, if, after a term of years,
it should appear that the construction had not been completed
in the manner designated. Bonds with such a condition would
be unsalable, and it is inconceivable that they could be issued
with any expectation that they could be used. We cannot
doubt that the county, in its anxiety to secure the buildingof
the railroad, was content to rest upon the agreement of the
company to construct it in the manner desired, and that the
only technical condition to the validity of the bonds was that
which referred to the exoneration from a prior subscription.
As it turned out, it would have been very much wiser for the
county to have declined to issue the bonds until the construction was completed, or to have taken some security for the performance of the agreement with reference to the construction.
But courts cannot make for the parties better agreements than
they themselves have been satisfied to make. The records of
this court show that prudence has not been a marked characteristic in the issue of municipal bonds in aid of the construction
of railroads.
Our conclusion upon the whole case is that, with the exception of the condition which has been performed, the bonds
were issued upon a good 'consideration and unconditionally,
and Were a valid obligation of the county in whosesoever hands
they subsequently lawfully came.
We have examined with attention and respect the -case of
Green County v. Shortell, 116 Kentucky, 108, wherein the
Court nf Appeals of the State arrived at a different conclusion,
and regret that we are unable to concur in fts reasoning.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. QUINLAN.
211 U. S.

597

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

The finding of the Circuit Court was that the plaintiff at the
time of beginning his action, which was after the bonds were
overdue, was the bona fide holder for value of the bonds and
coupons sued on. In view of the conclusion at which we have
arrived it seems unnecessary to dwell upon the exact terms of
this finding. In any event, the plaintiff was the legal holder
and owner of the bonds. This is not disputed. Assuming that
any defense is open of which the holder might have had notice by
inspecting the law, vote and the records of the County Court, i6
would come to nothing, because such an inspection would have
shown that no defense to the payment of the bonds existed.
We need not consider what would have been the situation
if the bonds were still in the hands of the railroad and it were
bringing action upon them, and an attempt had been made
to set up against their amount the damages resulting from the
railroad's failure to perform the agreement with respect to
construction. The bonds here are not in the hands of the railroad nor is any such defense set up. The defense is, that the
bonds are null and void, and, as has been shown, that defense
is without merit.
It appears that a recovery upon some of the coupons declared
upon is barred by the statute of limitations. This is conceded
by the plaintiff, who says that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, in view of the state of the pleadings, does not,
require that there should be a recovery upon the coupons thus
barred. It is better, however, that this question be freed from
doubt and the judgment be modified so as to require the Circuit Court to ascertain what coupons are barred by the statute
of limitations and to enter judgment for the remainder, and
for the principal of the bonds, of course, with interest in both
cases. Thus modified, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

I quite agree with Judge Lurton of the Circuit Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

peals, that common justice requires that there should not be
now any judgment upon the merits in these cases. He correctly said that the findings of fact do not adequately cover
all the issues, and upon those to which they are responsive
they are neither definite nor full enough to justify a judgment
in favor of the plaintiff. Without expressing at this time any
views upon the merits of these cases, I am of opinion that the
judgment in each case should be reversed and the cases remanded with an order for a new trial, when all the facts may
be more fully disclosed and sufficient findings made.

GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. THOMAS' EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 352.

Argued December 18, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Green County v. Quinlan, ante, p. 582, followed as to the liability of a
county on bonds issued for railroad assistance.
\\'here a technical mistake in the petition for writ of error is the result
of accident the court is justified in allowing an amendment and denying a motion to dismiss.
Looseness of practice should not be encouraged, and while an appellate
court should not enter final judgment for appellant without protecting the rights of the appellec, it is not hound to take not-ice of questions not set forth in the record, nor raised in the assignimcnls of error,
or where the appellant did not save his rights in the court below.
A finding that the plaintiffs below are bona fide holders of bonds and
entitled to sue in the Circuit Court amounts to a finding that the
plaintiffs ire joint owners, :ind is sufficient to support jurisdiction if
lhe aggregate amount execeds $2,000.
If tme defemdlant obligor owed the amount to the plaintiff at the commeneiemnt of the action it is not interested in the division of the
verdict.

