OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Counsel for Parties.

211 U. S.

appealed to this court. But this time the Supreme Court did
not order judgment, and it may be, that in its present opinion,
the former judgment was unwarranted in point of procedure.
Meheula v. Pioneer Mill Co., 17 Hawaii, 91. It is unnecessary
to consider whether our former decision left anything open, in
view of the technical scope of the appeal on the one side and
the limited inquiry to which our attention was directed on the
other. The statement of facts cannot affect that question,
nor can it affect the defendant's right to be here. It is enough
that the Supreme Court of Hawaii has pursued the usual course
upon exceptions, and has not entered or directed a judgment.
Therefore, as was decided a few days ago, in Cotton v. Hawaii,
ante, p. 162, an appeal does not lie.
Appeal dismissed.

McCORQUODALE v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO' THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.

No. 38.

Argued December 3,1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

It is too late to raise the Federal question for the first time in petition
for rehearing in the state court of last resort, unless, and it must so
appear, that court actually entertains the motion and passes upon the
Federal question; where the order is merely a denial of the motion
the writ of error will be dismissed.
Writ of error to review 98 S. W. Rep. 879, dismissed.
THE facts are

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Sam Streetmnan, with whom Mr. Thomas H. Ball was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. V. Davidson, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
and Mr. Felix J. McCord, for defendant in error, submitted.

McCORQUODALE v. STATE OF TEXAS.
211 U.S.

Opinion of the Courn.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error on March 10, 1905, was indicted by the
grand jury of the District Court of Brazos County, Texas, for
the murder of one Henry Spell. He was brought to trial and
convicted of murder in the first degree, the jury fixing his
punishment at imprisonment for life in the penitentiary.
The judgment, after stating the number and title of the
case, the arraignment of the defendant (plaintiff in error),
his plea, the impanelling of the jury, the trial of the case, the
presence of the defendant throughout all of the proceedings,
the retirement of the jury to consider of their verdict, recites
that the jury "afterwards on April 1st were brought into -open
court by the proper officers, the defendant and his counsel
being present, and in due form of law returned in open court
the following verdict:
" 'We the jury, find the defendant guilty of murder in the
first degree and assess his punishment at confinement in the
state penitentiary for life.
" 'J. H. WHITE, Foreman.'"
The following is the sentence:
"April 15th, 1905.
"This day this cause being again called, the State appeared
by her district attorney, and the defendant, William McCorquodale was brought into open court in person, in charge of the
sheriff, his counsel also being present, for the purpose of having
the sentence of the law pronounced against him in accordance
with the verdict and judgment herein rendered and entered
against him on a former day of this term; and thereupon the
defendant, William McCorquodale, was asked by the court
whether he had anything to say why sentence should not be
pronounced against him, and he answered nothing in bar
thereof, whereupon the court ' proceeded, in the presence of
the said defendant, William McCorquodale, to pronounce sen.tence against him, as follows:
" 'It is the order of the court that the defendant, William
VOL. ccxi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

McCorquodale, who has been adjudged to be guilty of murder
in the first degree, and whose punishment has been assessed
by the verdict of the jury at confinement in the penitentiary
for life, be delivered by the sheriff of Brazos County, Texas,
immediately to the superintendent of the penitentiarie'ยง of
the State of Texas, or other person legally authorized to receive such convicts, and the said William McCorquodale shall
be confined in said penitentiaries for life, in accordance with
the provisions of "the law governing the penitentiaries of said
State, and the said William McCorquodale is remanded to
jail until said sheriff can obey the direction of this sentence.'
The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Criminal Appeals.
98 S. W. Rep. 879. A motion for rehearing was made by plaintiff in error and denied. Subsequently- a motion was made by
the State as follows:
"Now comes the State, by the assistant attorney general,
and would show the court that 'the judgment in this cause was
affirmed at Tyler, and the appellant's motion for rehearihg
was overruled at the Dallas term;
"That since which time it has been discovered, and this
court's attention is now called to the fact, that the transcript
does not contain a complete judgment against appellant, though
the sentence is contained in the transcript:
"Wherefore, the State prays-that the court order the transcript and all papers transferred from' Tyler to the Austin
branch of the court, to the end that this court may determine
its jurisdiction of this appeal, and whether or not the judgment
should be reformed and affirmed, or whatever action this court
deems necessary.
"Respectfully submitted."
The motion to transfer was granted. The defendant, by his
counsel, excepted, and opposed the State's motion to reform
and affirm the judgment, on the following grounds: (1) The'
motion was not disposed of at the term which it was filed;
(2) It was not such a mQtion as is contemplated by law, is not

McCORQUODALE v. STATE OF TEXAS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a motion for rehearing nor a motion for the court to correct
its own judgment, but it is a motion to enter an original judgment, which the lower court alone has the power to do at the
proper time, and that the Court of Criminal Appeals has no
power to so do. The latter ground was repeated in many ways,
.and it was alleged, with much repetition, that the court had
no jurisdiction to grant the motion of the State, and it was
prayed that the motion be denied in so far as it sought to have
a judgment entered, or supplied, or to supply the want of the
proper judgment in the court below, and in so far as it sought
to have the Court of Criminal Appeals make any other order
than to issue its mandate in accordance with its opinion theretofore rendered.
The court granted the motion of the State, holding that the
judgment was in the ordinary form and complete so far as it
went, but that it did not comply with certain requirements of
the Code of Criminal Procedure of the State, in that it did not
declare, as provided in subdivisions 9 and 10 of Art. 831, that
it was considered by the court that the defendant be adjudged
guilty of the offense as found by the jury, and that the defendant be punished as determined by the jury. The court further
held that it had the power to reform and correct the judgment
so as to bring it into accordance with the provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure. The court, after reciting the
proceedings and reviewing prior cases, concluded its opinion
as follows:
"'Reform' means to correct; to make anew; to rectify.
Rapalje Law Dic. p. 1083. Here we have all of thd foundation of the judgment, including the verdict of the jury, which
is the basic rock on which the judgment is formulated. We
have, following this, the final judgment of the court, which is
the .sentence. This itself adjudicates the guilt of appellant and
sentences him, in accordance with the verdict and judgment.
From this data certainly we can do that which the court a quo,
in due order, should have done. We accordingly hold that
the judgment of the court below should be reformed, and cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

rected, so as to make it read, in connec-ion with the judgment
as entered, and following the verdict, as iollows, to wit:
" 'It is therefore considered, ordered and adjudged by the
court that the defendant, William McCorquodale, is guilty of
the offense of murder in the first degree, as found by the jury,
and that he, the said William McCorquodale, be punished, as.
has been determined by the jury, by imprisonment for life in
the penitentiary; and it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court that the State of Texas do have and recover
of and from the defendant, William McCorquodale, all costs
of this prosecution, for which execution may issue; and that
the said defendant is now remanded to jail to remain in custody
to await the further order of the court.'
"The State's motion to reform is accordingly granted; the
Judgment is reformed and corrected, as above indicated, and,
as reformed and corrected, the judgment is affirmed in accordance with the previous opinion of this court."
In answer to the motion of the State, the defendant did not
set up that the action invoked by the State would, if granted,
contravene the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. He however presented a petition for,
to quote from the petition, "a rehearing upon the State's
motion to 'reform and affirm,' "and urged as one of the grounds
thereof the following:
"This court's said opinion is further erroneous in that it, in
effect, deprives appellant of that due process of law guaranteed
him by the constitution of the State of Texas, and that of the
United States, in this: that it is in effect the rendering of a
judgment against him in his absence, and the authorization of
sentence against him without a judgment."
The other grounds of the motion for rehearing were repetitions of the grounds urged in the answer to the State's motion
and other grounds based on the local procedure, the basis of
all being the want of jurisdiction in the court.
The order of the court on the motion for a rehearing was as
follows:

McCANDLESS v. PRATT.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

"This cause came on to be heard on appellant's motion for
a rehearing, and the same being considered by the court said
motion is overruled."
This court has decided many times that it is too late to raise
a Federal question for the first time in a petition for rehearing
in the court of last resort of a State after that court has pronounced its final decision. Loeber v. Schroeder, 149 U. S. 580,
585; Pim v. St. Louis, 165 U. S. 273. It is true that we have
also decided that if the court entertains the motion and passes
on the Federal question, we will review its decision. But it
must appear that the court has done so. Mallett v. North
Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; Corkran
Oil Co. v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 182, 193; Fullerton v. Texas, 196
U. S. 192; McMillen v. Ferrum, 197 U. S. 343. It can hardly
be said to so appear in the case at bar. The order.of the court
is nothing more than a denial of the motion. In other words,
it expresses no more than would be implied from a simple denial of the motion.
Writ of error dismissed.

McCANDLESS v. PRATT, LAND COMMISSIONER

OF

HAWAII'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.

No. 109.

Argued November 6,9, 1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

The jurisdiction of this court can only be invoked by a party having
a personal interest in the litigation. Smithv. Indiana, 191 U. S. 138.
A writ of error will not lie to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Hawaii, dismissing the bill in a suit brought by a taxpayer to enjoin the land commissioner from an alleged unauthorized use of public lands where it does not appear that complainant would be personally injured by the threatened use.
Original docket title, McCandless v. Carter, Governor of Hawaii.

