CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.

FRASCH v. MOORE.'
APPEAL

FROM

AND IN

ERROR -TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 14.

Argued April 23, 24, 1908.-Decided October 19, 1908.

A decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in an
appeal from the Commissioner of Patents under Rev. Stat. §§ 4914,
4915, § 9 of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, and § 780,
Rev. Stat., District of Columbia, is interlocutory and not final and is
not reviewable by this court under § 8 of the act of February 9, 1893,
either by appeal or writ of error. Rousseau v. Browne, 21 App. D. C.
73, approved.
Appeal from and writ of error to review, 27 App. D. C. 25, dismissed.
FRASCH applied for a patent for an invention of a new and
useful improvement in the art of making salt by evaporation of
brine. He expressed his alleged invention in six claims, three of
which were for the process of removing incrustation of calcium

sulphate from brine heating surfaces, and three of them were
for an apparatus for use in the process.
I Commissioner, of Patents and made party in place of Allen, Commissioner, resigned.
vOL. CCXI-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

At the time when the application was filed, Rule 41 of the
Patent Office did not pernit the joinder of claims for process
and claims for apparatus in one and the same application. The
examiner required division between the process and apparatus
claims, and refused to act upon the merits. An appeal was
taken to the examiners in chief, but the examiner refused to
forward it. A petition was then filed, asking the Commissioner
of Patents to direct that the appeal be heard. The Commissioner held that the examiner was right in 'refusing to forward
the appeal. From that decision appeal was taken to the Court
of Appeals of the District, which held that it did not have jurisdiction to entertain it. Frasch then filed a petition in this
court for a mandamus, directing the Court of Appeals to hear
and determine the appeal, which petition was dismissed. Ex
parte Frasch, 192 U. S. 566.
But in United States ex rel. Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543,
it was held that Rule 41, as applied by the Commissioner, was
invalid, and that the remedy for his action was by mandamus
in the Supreme Court of the District to compel the Commissioner to act. Accordingly the proceedings in the present case
were resumed in the Patent Office, and the applicant asked the
Commissioner to direct that the appeal theretofore taken to the
examiners in chief be heard by them. The Commissioner
granted thig petition. The primary examiner furnished the
required statement and a supplementary statement of the
grounds of his decision requiring division. The examiners in
chief affirmed the decision of the primary examiner, "requiring
a division of these claims for an art and for an independent
machine used to perform the art;" one examiner in chief, dissenting, held that division should not be required. On appeal
to the Commissioner, he affirmed the examiners in chief in part
only; that is to say, he held that process.claim No. 1 must be
divided from the other process claims and the apparatus claims,
but that process claims Nos. 2 and 3 and the apparatus claims
Nos. 4, 5 and 6 might be joined in one application. Rehearing
was denied, and an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals for

FRASCH v. MOORE.
211 U. S.

3

Argument for -Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

the District of Columbia, which affirmed the decision of the
Commissioner of Patents, for reasons given at large in an opinion, and directed the clerk of the court to "certify this opinion
and proceedings in this court in the premises to the Commissioner of Patents, according to law."
An appeal and a writ of error were allowed, the court stating
through Mr. Chief Justice Shepard: "We are inclined to the
view that this case is not appealable to the Supreme Court of
the United States, but as the question has never been directly
decided, so far as we are advised, we will grant the petition in
order that the question of the right to appeal in such a case may
be directly presented for the determination of the court of last
resort."
The record was filed January 25, 1907, and on February 4 a
petition for certiorari.
Mr. Charles J. Hedrick for appellant and plaintiff in error:
The opinion and the reasons of appeal show the case is one
in which is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under, the United States. § 233 of Code
Dist. Col.
This court has jurisdiction in a case wherein the validity of a
rule of the Patent Office is assailed. United States v. Allen,
192 U. S. 543. Here not only the rule, but the validity of the
authority exercised apart from any rule, is called in question
and also the validity of any statute authorizing said rule or in
other respects having the effect which the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia and the Commissioner of Patents have
construed the patent acts to have.
In Rousseau v. Browne, 104 0. G. 1122, 21 App. D. C. 73, the
Court of Appeals declined to allow a writ of error or an appeal,
on the ground that its decision was not a final judgment or decree within the statute allowing appeals to this court; but it
.does not appear that the attention of the court had been called
to the express opinion in United States v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576,
that the remedy by appeal existed.

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

Although this court did not affirm the lower court solely for
this reason, yet the expression of opinion was not obiter on that
account ;.since it was in reference to a matter in issue and constituted an additional reason for the affirmance.
The decision of the Court of Appeals, when adverse (as in the
present case), is the refusal of p patent (§ 4915, Rev. Stat.), and
the effect of its decision whether adverse or favorable is not
materially different from the corresponding judgment on a bill
in equity, under § 4915, under which the court may adjudge
that such applicant is 'ntitled, according to law, to receive a
patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or for any
part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear.
This court has entertained jurisdiction of appeals from such
adjudication and reversed the Circuit Court's decision on the
merits. Morgan v. Daniels, 153 U. S. 120; and see also Gandy
v. Marble, 122 U. S. 432; Hill v. Wooster, 132 U. S. 693; Durham v. Seymour, 161 U. S. 235; and see Butterworth v. Hoe, 112
U. S.50.
Inasmuch as the appeal deals with a question judicial in its
nature, in respect of which the judgment of the court is final
so far as the particular action of the Patent Office is concerned,
such judgment is none the less a judgment "because its effect
may be to aid an administrative or executive body in the performance of' duties iegally imposed upon it' by Congress in
execution of a power granted by the Constitution." United
States v. Duell, supra; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Brimson,
154 U. S.447.
The decision on appeal from the Commissioner under § 4914,
Rev. Stat., and §228, Code Dist. Col., is, therefore, a final judgment or decree of the Court of Appeals. See § 233, Code Dist.
Col., allowing or refusing a patent. It gives or refuses to appellant the exclusive rights of a patentee.
It is not material that any patent allowed by the courts on
direct appeal (§ 4914, Rev. Stat.), or on bill in equity (§ 4915,
Rev. Stat.) can be controverted (§ 4920, Rev. Stat.). A final
judgment or decree can be rendered in cases where rights of

FRASCH v. MOORE.
211 U. S.

Argument for Appellee and Defendant in Error.

possession only are involved, the judgment or decree not touching the fundamental title. A decree in equity for specific
performance, as for delivery of a deed, is none the less a final
decree, because the deed, when given, is not incontrovertible. It has a certain finality; but so does the grant of a
patent.
In any legal sense, action, suit and cause are convertible
terms.
A suit is any proceeding in a court of justice by which an individual pursues that remedy which the law affords him. Ex
parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 112, 113; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet.
449. It is the prosecution of some demand in a court of justice.
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264.
Suits may arise out of appeals from administrative officers.
As to appeal from a board of supervisors see Bradley v. People,
4 Wall. 459.
The Court of Appeals exercises functions strictly judicial in
reviewing on appeal the decisions of the Commissioner of
Patents. United States v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576.
The Solicitor General for appellee and defendant in error:
The court is without jurisdiction.
There is no money in dispute nor anything to which a pecuniary value has been given. To rest jurisdiction upon the
act of February 9, 1893, 27 Stat. 434, in a case involving the
validity of a patent or copyright, or drawing in question the
validity of a treaty or statute or of an authority exercised
under
the United States, there must be some sum or value in dispute.
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543; Chapman v. United States,
164 U. S. 436; United States v. More, 3 Cr. 159; Sinclair v.
District of Columbia, 192 U. S.16; New Mexico v. Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38; Albright v. New Mexico, 200
U. S. 9. If it should be held that the validity of a patent or
copyright necessarily involves value, although the sum or value
in any determinate sense is not in dispute, still it cannot possibly be predicated of the naked question of the validity of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee and Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

law or treaty or Federal authority that a sum or value is at
stake as a concrete and measurable matter, but only contingently, indirectly and remotely.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is not final; it merely
ended an interlocutory stage of this controversy and sent the
applicant back to the Patent Office to conform to the meaning
and effect of Rule 41 on division of claims as construed by the
Commissioner of Patents, and to pursue the application in the
form required to final grant or rejection. See Rousseau v.
Browne, 21 App. D. C.'73. Jurisdiction to hear and determine
appeals from the Commissioner of Patents was formerly vested
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia (§ 780, R. S.
D. C.); it was transferred to and vested in the Court of Appeals
by § 9 of the act of 1893 (supra), and in addition, decisions of
the Patent Office on an interference between applications,
which previously were- final (§ 4911, Rev. Stat.), were made
appealable to the Court of Appeals. The law applicable is
§ 4914, Rev. Stat. Section 4915 provides a remedy by bill in
equity where a patent is refused, and the last line of that section
refers to the "final decision," which evidently means the judicial decision upon a bill in equity. It is manifest from the
language of these sections that in interference cases and in all
others going up from the Commissioner to the Court of Appeals
there is no final judgment in the cause, but one interlocutory
in its nature and binding only upon the Commissioner to govern
the further proceedings in the case. The opinion or decision of
the court reviewing the Commissioner's decision is not final,
because it does not preclude any person interested from contesting the ' alidity of the patent in court. If the Commissioner refuses the patent and the Court of Appeals either
sustains him or reverses him, that is the point at which finality
could be alleged, and even then the decision of that cour may
be challenged generally and a refusal of patent may be reviewed and contested by bill in equity. It is at least certain
that a judgment like this on an intermediate point of procedure
and practice, the result of which is simply to send the case back

FRASCH v. MOORE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Patent Office, is not a "final judgment" under § 8 of the
act of 1893.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434,
436, provides: .
"That any final judgment or decree of the said Court of Appeals may be reexamined and affirmed, reversed, or modified by
the Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of error or
appeal, in all causes in which the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the
same manner and under the same regulations as heretofore provided for in cases of writs of error on judgment or appeals from
decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; and also in cases, without regard to thesum or value of the
matter in dispute, wherein is involved the validity of any patent
or copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of a
treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States."
The decision of the Court of Appeals sought to be reviewed
in the present case is not final, but merely ended an interlocutory stage of the controversy and sent the applicant back to the
Patent Office to conform to the meaning and effect of the rule
on division of claims as construed by the Commissioner of
Patents, and to pursue the application in the form required to
allowance or rejection.
Section 780 of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia reads thus:
"The Supreme Court, sitting in banc, shall have jurisdiction
of and shall hear and determine all appeals from the decisions
of the Commissioner of Patents, in accordance with the provisions of sections forty-nine hundred and eleven to forty-nine
hundred aild fifteen, inclusive, of Chapter one, Title LX, 'of the
Revised Statutes, 'Patents, Trade-marks, and ,Copyrights."'

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Section 9 of the "Act to establish a Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, and for other purposes," approved February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, 436, is:
"SEC. 9. That the determination of appeals from the decisions of the Commissioner of'Patents, now vested in the general
term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in
pursuance of the provisions of section seven hundred and eighty
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to the
District of Columbia, shall hereafter be and the same is hereby
vested in the Court of Appeals created by this act; and in addition, any party aggrieved by a decision of the Commissioner
of Patents in any interference case may appeal therefrom to
said Court of Appeals."
Thus the special jurisdiction of the District Supreme Court
in patent appeals was transferred to and vested in the Court of
Appeals, and decisions in interference cases were also made appealable, which had not been, previously the case. Rev. Stat.
§ 4911. The law applicable is § 4914, Rev. Stat., which provides:
"The court, on petition, shall hear and determine such appeal, and revise the decision appealed from in a summary way,
on the evidence produced. before the Commissioner, at, such
early and convenient time as the court may appoint; and the
revision shall be confined to the points set forth in the reasons
.of appeal. After hearing the case the court shall return to the
Commissioner a certificate of its proceedings and decision, which
shall be entered of record in the Patent Office, and shall govern
the further proceedings in the case. But no opinion or decisiori of the court in any such case shall preclude any person interested from the right to contest the validity of such
patent in,
any court wherein the same may be called in question."
By § 4915 a remedy by bill in equity is given where a-pitent
is refused, and reads as follows:
"SEc. 4915. Whenever a patent on application is refused,
either by the Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme

FRASCH v. MOORE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in equity;
and the court having cognizance thereof, on notice to adverse
parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge that such
applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent for his
invention, as specified in his claim, or for any part thereof, as
the facts in the case may appear. And such adjudication, if it
be in favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize the
Commissioner to issue such patent on the applicant filing in the
Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise complying with the requirements of law. In all cases, where there
is no opposing party, a copy of the bill shall be served*on the
Commissioner; and all the expenses of the proceeding shall be
paid by the applicant, whether the final deciqion is in his favor

or not."'
The final decision referred to is obviously the judicial decision on the bill in equity, while in interference bases and in all
others going up-from the Commissioner to the Court of Appeals
there is no final judgment in the cause, but one interlocutory
in its nature and binding only upon the Commissioner "to
govern the further proceedings in th6 case." The opinion or
decision of the court reviewing the Commissiener's decision
is not final, because it does not preclude any person interested
from contesting the validity of the patent in court, and if the
decision of the Commissioner grants the patent that is the. end
of. the matter as between the Government and the applicant;
and if he refuses it and the Court of Appeals sustains him,
that is merely a qualified finality, for, as we have seen, the
decision of that court may be challenged generally and a refusal of patent may be reviewed and contested by bill as provided.
The appeal given to the Court of Appeals of the District from
the decision of the Commissione "is not," as Mr. Justice
Matthews said in Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 60, "the
exercise of ordinary jurisdiction at law or in equity on the part
of that court, but is one step in the statutory proceeding under,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the patent laws whereby that tribunal is interposed in aid of the
Patent Office, though not subject to it. Its adjudication,
though not binding upon any who choose by litigation in courts
of general jurisdiction to question the validity of any patent
thus awarded, is nevertheless conclusiye upon the Patent Office
:itself, for, as the statute declares, Rev. Stat. § 4914, 'it shall
govern the further proceedings in the case."'
In Rousseau v. Broume, 21 App. D. C. 73, 80, which was an
appeal from the Patent Office in the matter of an interference
between two applications, the court affirmed the decision of
the Commissioner of Patents, ruling against one of the claims
on the ground that priority of invention must be awarded to
the other claimant, declined to allow a writ of error or appeal,
and said, through Chief Justice Alvey:
"There is no final judgment of this court rendered in such
cases, nor is there any such judgment required or authorized to
be rendered, not even for costs of the appeal. This court is
simply required in such cases, after hearing and deciding the
points as presented, instead of entering judgment here, to return to the Commissioner of Patents a certificate of the proceedings and decision of this court, to be entered of record in
the Patent Office, to govern the further proceedings in the case.
But it is declared by the statute that no opinion of this court
in any such case shall preclude any person interested from
the right to contest- the validity of any patent that may be
granted 'by the Commissioner of. Patents. Rev. Stat. §§ 780,
4914.
"There is no provision of any statute, within our knowledge,
that authorizes'a writ of error or an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States in such case as the present. It
would seem clear that the case is not within the purview of
section 8 of the act of Congress of February 9, 1803, providing
for t" establishment of this court. That section only applies
-to cases where final judgments by this court have been entered,
and not to decisions to be made and: certifi&I to the Patent
Office, under the special directions of the statute."

BRANDON v. ARD.
Syllabus.

21.1 U. S

We consider these observatiois as applicable to the present
case, and the result is

Appeal and writ oj error dismissed, and certiorari denied.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not sit.

BRANDON v. ARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 24.

Submitted April 29, 1908.-Decided October 19, 1908.

The policy of the Federal Government toward bona fide settlers upon
the public lands is liberal and the law deals tenderly with them.
A homesteader who has done all that the law requires will not lose his

rights on account of error of, or unauthorized action by, a public
official. Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537.
Lands within indemnity limits of a railroad grant are not open for settlement under homestead laws until the map of definite location has been
filed and their selection to supply deficiencies in place limits has been
approved by the Secretary of the Interior; and their prior withdrawal
by the Secretary from sale and settlement is unauthorized and does
not affect the rights of bona fide settlers. So held as to grants under
the act of March 3, 1863, c. 98, 12 Stat. 772.
The act of March 3; 1863, c. 98, 12 Stat. 772, did not actually grant
lands to which any claim of a bona fide settler had attached prior to
definite location of the road. Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564.
In a suitbrought by the Attorney General of the United States against
a railroad company to cancel patents under the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, the Attorney General represents only the United States; he cannot represent merely private parties.
A bona fide homesteader, not a party to an action brought by the Attorney General of the United States under the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, against a railroad company to cancel the patent

