562

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff- in Error.

211 U. S.

We think ths was the correct view. We find no error in the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the same is

Affirmed.

EDWARD MURPHY, 2d, v. JOHN HOFMAN COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 33.

Argued December 1, 2, 1908.-Decided January 4, 190g.

Where the bankruptcy court has the actual'possession of property, the
title to which is in dispute, that property is withdrawn from the
jurisdiction of other courts, and, independently of any jurisdiction
conferred by statute, the bankruptcy court, as is the case with
other Federal and state courts, has ancillary jurisdiction to hear
and determirie all questions respecting-such title; and such jurisdiction cannot be disturbed by,the process of any other court. Wabash
Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38.
Where one who has no other connection with the property is appointed
receiver his possession is that of the court and not that of an individual.
The seizure of goods in the possession of a receiver in bankruptcy, under
a writ of replevin issiued by a state court against the receiver, individually, held in this case to be an unlawful invasion of theposse.sion of the bankruptcy dourt.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Herbert D. Bailey for plaintiff in error:
The bankrupt's actual possession .of this property at the
inception of the bankruptcy. proceedings, and its delivery
thereof to the, receiver, as a part of its property, rendered it
the-duty of the receiver not only to take but to hold the propcrty pending an order of the Federal court as to its disposition.
In re Schermerhorn, 16 Am. B. R. 507; White v. Schloerb, 178
U. S. 542; S. C., 4 Am. B. R. 178; Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

686, reversing Doyle v. Sharpe, 74 N. Y. 156; In re Rochford, 10
Am. B. R. 608; Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539; S.C., 14
Am. B. R. 45; In re Leeds, 12 Am. B. R. .136; Gluck & Becker
on Receivers, 389, 390; Alderson on Receivers, 329; Stanley
v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196.
The Federal court having found the property in the possession of the bankrupt, who claimed it, had exclusive jurisdiction,
and having by its orders disposed specifically of the property
prior to October 11, 1904, on notice to theHofmanCompany, its
disposition was effectual and conclusibe. The state court was
without jurisdiction to review, modify or disturb the disposition
made by the Federal court. Bankruptcy Act, ยง 2, (3), (5),
(6), (7), (15); ]Bankruptcy Act, ยง 1, (7), (8), (9); Federal Constitution, Art. I, ยง 8; Federal Constitution, Art. III, ยง 2; White
v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539;
Central Nat. Bank of Boston v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432; Peck v.
Jenness, 7 How. 612; Riggs v. Johnson, 6 Wall. 166; Crescent
City Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334;
Railroad Co. v. Gomila, 132 U. S.478; Dowell v. Applegate,
152 U. S. 327; Covell'v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176; In re Watts, 190
U. S. 1; Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52; Sharpe v. Doyle,
102 U. S. 686; City Bank of New Orleans, In re Christy, 3 How.
292; Colby v. Reed, 99 U. S. 560.
Mr. John A. Barhite for defendant in error:
No Federal question is involved in this case and no officer
of the United States court is interested in the decision.
It was the duty of the bankruptcy court to protect its receiver, and that court would protect its receiver from any
interference in the discharge of his duties, but it appeared to
that court that the defendant in error was not attem)ting to
interfere with the receiver but was engaged in a controversy
with an individual in whose welfare the bankruptcy court had
no interest and over whose actions it had no control, and the
order vacating the injunction was a plain direction to the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

ceiver not to attempt to retain the show cases and that if he
did attempt to retain them he did so at his own peril.
The claim of the receiver that he was helpless and was the
innocent victim of his office, is controverted by the principle
laid down in Dushane v. Beall, 161 U. S. 513, 515. See also
In re Geo. M. Hill Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 866.
The state court had jurisdiction of this action and the record
shows no question which can be determined by this court.
The bankruptcy act nowhere gives exclusive jurisdiction to
the United States courts to determine questions between recivers and trustees in bankruptcy and adverse claimants.
The right of the United States court to administer property
which comes into its possession, must rest upon the principle
where it applies that property once in the possession of a court
will be administered by that court and not taken from its
possession by some other court. Cook v. Whipple, 55 N. Y.
150; Peck v. Jenness, 43 Am. Dec. 573, 581; State v. Trustees,
65 N. C. 714, 719; Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130; Eyster v.
Gaff, 91 U. S. 521; Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524;
White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.
686, discussed and said not to support contentions of plaintiff
in error.
The trial court made no error, either in the reception or rejection of evidence, which requires the reversal of the judgment.
Upon the trial the plaintiff in error waived any claim which
he might have to the property in dispute and the trial court
had no other course than to direct a verdict for the'plaintiff,
the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a final judgment of the
Court of Appeals of the State of New York in an action of repl(.vin. The NNvrit was allowed to the plaintiff in error, Murphy,
but (enicd to th party joined with him, by the Chief Judge
of that court while the record was still in its possession.

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and before it had been remitted to the Supreme Court,

in accordance with the practice of the State. A clear
understanding of the questions before this court will be
aided by a relation of the facts out of which the litigation arose. Such of them as do not bear upon the Federal
questions may either be omitted or stated in a very general
way.
The Dodge Dry Goods Company, a corporation, had contracted with the John Hofman Company, the defendant in
error, for the construction and installation in the store of the
.Dodge Company of a lot of show cases. Shortly after the installation of the show cases and before the contract price was
paid, proceedings in bankruptcy against the Dodge Company
were begun in the District Court of the United States, and,
on August 18, 1903, Edward Murphy, 2d, the.plaintiff in error,
was appointed by that court temporary receiver of the property of the alleged bankrupt. Thereupon the Hofman Company took the position that the show cases had never been
accepted by the bankrupt, and that, although they had been
used for some time in the business, title to them had not
passed fr~m the vendor. Accordingly, the Hofman Company,
on August 20, 1903, demanded in writing the possession and
delivery of the show cases from "Edward Murphy, 2d, Receiver, etc., of Dodge Dry Goods Company." Murphy declined to deliver up the property, saying that he was in possession as receiver. The order of the District Court appointing
the receiver recites the filing of the petition and affidavit, and
directs the alleged bankrupt to show cause on the sixth of
October, 1903, why a permanent receiver should not be appointed, and then directs that, pending the return of the order, the "alleged bankrupt be, and it hereby is, enjoined and
restrained from making any transfer of any of its property
and . . . all persons are enjoined and restrained from
instituting and from prosecuting any and all suits and proceedings in any court against said alleged bankrupt and
against any of its property....
that Edward Murphy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

2d,

211 U. S,

be, and he hereby is, appointed temporary re-

ceiver of all the. property, real and personal, and rights of action and demands due said alleged bankrupt with power to
collect and receive same and continue the business with the
present employ6s." The order further directs that the receiver
shall take immediate possession of the property of the bankrupt and carry on the business. On August 21, 1903, Murphy
notified the president of the Dodge Company that he had been
appointed receiver, and demanded possession of the property
of thec alleged bankrupt. The keys of the store were given to
the receiver, and he took possession of the property in it, including the show cases, and continued the business. At that
time the show cases were filled with goods, and they thenceforth were used by the receiver in the conduct of the business.
.Nothing at the time was said specifically about them, but
shortly afterward the president of the Dodge. Company informed the receiver that the title to the store was in the Century Mercantile Company, another corporation, and that by
the terms of the lease to the Dodge Company the fixtures,
including the show eases, became the property of the landlord
on the bankruptcy of the tenant. The receiver then entered
into negotiations with the counsel of the Century Mercantile
Company, and it was agreed that the show cases should be
omitted from the receiver's inventory, and the dispute as to the
title to them between the receiver and the Century Mercantile
Company should be referred to the decision of the bankrupt
court. The situiation then was this: The receiver was in possession of the gtock of goods, engaged in conducting the business, and using the show cases in the business, claiming the
right to do so because they were the property of the bankrupt.
The receiver had been informed that there were two outstanding conflicting claims to the title of the show cases: first, that
of the John Hofman Company, who manufactured and installed them, and claimed that the title had not passed to the
bankrupt but remained in the vendor; second, that of the
Century Mercantile Company, who claimed that the title had

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

passed to the bankrupt, and that afterwards, by virtue of the
terms of the lease of the store, title had been vested in it. The
receiver disputed both claims, and, as we shall see hereafter,
the dispute with the Century Mercantile Company was settled
by the bankruptcy court in favor of the receiver. The John
Hofman Company, however, failed to resort to the bankruptcy
court for .the adjudication of its claim, and began an action
against "Edward Murphy, 2d, and Century Mercantile Company," by the service, on the sixth day of October, 1903, of a
summons "to answer the complaint 'in this action," together
with an affidavit in replevin and a requisition to replevy the
show cases and a copy of an undertaking from the plaintiff
accepted by the sheriff. It will be observed that Murphy was
not described in the summons as receiver. On that day the
sheriff went to the store, identified the show cases, and said
with respect to each one, "I replevy this show case." He was
requested by both defendants not to take them away. ie
did not move them, or lock up the store, or put a keeper in
charge, and went away leaving the show cases exactly as
they were when he came in. On the ninth of October, 1903,
the judge of the bankruptcy court, on the petition of the receiver, enjoined all further proceedings in the action of replevin
until the further order of the court; enjoined the sheriff from
executing any requisition in replevin of property in the possession of the receiver, and enjoined the sheriff and all other
persons from interfering in any manner with the property
then in the possession of the receiver. The John Hofman Cornpany applied for an order vacating this injunction. The application remained pending for a year, owing to the illness of
the District Judge, and on October 11, 1904, the order of injunction was vacated. Three days later, on October 14, 1904,
the. sheriff removed the show cases from the store. In the
meantime, they had been sold at a trustee's sale of the property of the bankrupt.
Thereafter the defendants severally filed answers. Murphy
set up in defense that at the time of the service of summons

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

upon him he was in possession of the property as the receiver
of the bankrupt; that he remained in possession as receiver
until the adjudication of bankruptcy and the appointment
of himself as a trustee, and that as trustee, under the order of
the bankruptcy court, he sold the property, and the sale was
duly confirmed. The issue made by the pleadings was this:
The, plaintiff in replevin demanded the property in dispute
from Murphy as an individual. Murphy, on the other hand,
asserted that he had no concern with the property except in
his capacity as receiver; that is to say, as an officer of the
court of bankruptcy. The burden rested upon the plaintiff
to show, first, that the title had not passed from it to the Dodge
Company, a question purely of state cognizance; and, second,
that the possession of Murphy of the show cases was not a
possession as receiver in bankruptcy, a question ultimately for
Federal cognizance. There was a trial before a jury and a
verdict for the plaintiff, without damages, which was successively, affirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court and by the Court of Appeals. Neither court rendered
an opiriion.
Before going further it is well to ascertain the principles of
law which are applicable to the situation. The bankrupt act
of 1898, as originally enacted, did not confer jurisdiction, on
the District Courts of the United States over suits brought
by trustees in bankruptcy 'to assert title to property as assets
of the bankrupt, or to set aside transfers made by the bankrupt in fraud of the creditors or by way of preference, unless
by consent of the defendant. Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178
U. S. 524; Frank v. Vollkommer, 205 U. S. 521. The act,
however, preserves the jurisdiction, otherwise existing by
statute, of the courts of the United States, though it is limited
to courts where the bankrupt himself could have prosecuted
the action. Bush v. Elliott, 202 U. S. 477. But where the
property in dispute is in the actual possession of the court of
bankruptcy there comes into play another principle, not peculiar
tc courts of bankruptcy but applicable to all courts, Federal

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or state. Where a court of competent jurisdiction has taken
property into its possession, through its officers,, the property
is thereby withdrawn from the jurisdiction of all other courts.
The court having possession of the property, has an ancillary
jurisdiction to hear and determine all questions respecting the
title, possession or control of the property. In the courts of
the United States this ancillary jurisdiction may be exercised,
though it is not authorized by any statute. The jurisdiction
in such cases arises out of the possession of the property and
is exclusive of the jurisdiction of all other courts, although
otherwise the controversy would be cognizable in them. Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 54. Accordingly, where property was in the possession of the bankrupt
at the time of the appointment of a receiver, it was held that
the bankruptcy court had jurisdiction to determine the title
to it as against an adverse claimant, and that the receiver had
no -right to deliver it to him without the order of the court.
Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539. On the day the opinion
in the Bardes case was announced the same justice delivered
the opinion of the court in White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S.542P a
case in which the facts were essentially those of the case at
bar. Certain persons, copartners in trade, were adjudicated
bankrupts and the case was sent to a referee in bankruptcy.
They had a stock of goods in a store, the entrance to which
was locked by the referee. Certain other persons claimed
title to part of the stock of goods ds obtained from them by
a fraudulent purchase, which had been rescinded. After the
adjudication, these persons brought an action of replevin of
the goods against the bankrupt in a state court, which was
executed. 'It was held that replevin would not lie in the state
court, and that the District Court had jurisdiction by summary proceedings to compel the return of the property seized.
The court said: "The goods were then in the lawful possession
of and. custody of the referee in bankruptcy, and of the bankruptcy court, whose representative and substitute he was.
Being thus in the custody of a court of the United States they

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U, S.

could not be taken out of that custody upon any process from
a state court." The last two cases cited proceed upon and
establish the principle that when the court of bankruptcy,
through the act of its officers, such as referees, receivers or
trustees, has taken possession of a res, as the property of a
bankrupt, it has ancillary jurisdiction to hear and determine
the adverse claims of strangers to it, and that its possession cannot be disturbed by the process of another court.
And see Skilton v. Codington, 185 N. Y. 80, 85, 86, and
Frank v. Vollkommer, 205 U. S. 521, which by iniplication approve the same principle.
We think this principle was lost sight of in the trial of the
case before us. We must assume in favor of the plaintiff in
repleVin that the replevin was completed on the sixth of October, 1903, when the sheriff identified the goods and, at the
request of the defendant, left them in place in the store and
delivered to the defendants the undertaking, which apparently
was accepted by them as good. If, at this time, the show cases
were in the possession of the .court of bankruptcy; that is to
say, were in the possession of Murphy as the receiver appointed
by the court of bankruptcy, then, according to principle and
in obedience to the express authority of White v. Schloerb,
supra, the action of replevin in the state court cannot be maintained. Upon the undisputed facts, as they appeared at the
trial, it is impossible to suppose that Murphy had any possession
except as receiver. He had no personal interest in the affairs
of the bankrupt, and no relation to its property except that
created by his appointment to that office. There is but a
single circumstance which points the other way, and to that
circumstance reference presently will be made. The demand
of the plaintiff in replevin for the delivery of the goods was
made upon "Edward Murphy, 2d, Receiver," etc. The plaintiff introduced no evidence tending to show that Murphy had
any possession except as receiver. When the evidence for
the defendant came to be introduced the nature of Murphy's
possession was more fully explained. James E. Dodge, prcsi-

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Qourt.

dent of the Dodge Dry Goods Company, and *manager of its
business, testified that on the twenty-first day of August,
1903, Murphy called at the store and notified him of his
(Murphy's) appointment as receiver, and demanded the possession of the assets of the Dodge Dry Goods Company. He
says: "The property that I gave him possession of at that
time was merchandise and fixtures in the store, also supplies
and book accounts; all the property of the Dodge Dry Goods
Company. And all the property that was in possession of the
Dodge Dry Goods Company. And among the things I turned
over to him were included these show cases that are the subject of this action., There was no exception made of the show
cases...

I handed him the keys of the store, and told

him its contents were the property of the Dodge Dry Goods
Company. And these show cases were part of the contents
at that time.. There was no special mention made of the show
cases at that time." Murphy testified that at this interview
Dodge turned over to him the keys of the building and showed
him the property of the Dodge Dry Goods Company, stock,
dry goods and merchandise, complete store equipment, consisting of show cases, counters, etc. The show cases were then
on the ground floor, and the goods were in them when they
were turned over to him as receiver, and he continued to use the
show cases in the performance of his duty as receiver, and
claimed them as the property of the bankrupt. The defendant offered in evidence the order of the court of bankruptcy,
made August 18, 1903, appointing him as receiver, and offered
to show that it was exhibited to the sheriff at the time of the
replevin. This order, which hereinbefore has been. fully set
forth, appointed Murphy "temporary receiver of all the property, real and personal," of the bankrupt, directed him to take
immediate possession of all the property and to carry on the
business. This evidence was excluded, and we think the.exclusion was clearly erroneous.
The plaintiff in replevin lays much stress upon one circumstance, as tending to show that Murphy was not in possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

of the property as receiver, but as bailee of the Century Mercantile Company, and to that circumstance more particular
attention must now be given.

Murphy testified upon cross-

examination that he did not include the show cases in the
schedule filed by him as receiver, but this testimony must be
considered in connection with the explanation which acconipanied it. Dodge originally had owned the store and had
leased it to the Dodge Dry Goods Company, of which he was
president. The lease contained a proviqion -that upon the
bankruptcy of the dry goods company the fixtures, including
the show cases, should become the property of the owner of
the store. The store subsequently was conveyed to the Century Mercantile Company, of which Dodge was also president.
After the stock in trade, including the show cases, had been
turned over to Murphy as receiver, Dodge, acting in behalf of
the Century Mercantile Company, made a demand upon him
for the fixtures and show cases, basing his demand upon the
provision in the lease. Just how long after the delivery of
possession to Murphy this demand was niade is not clear, but
it is enough to say that the demand was subsequent to the
delivery. Murphy declined to yield to this demand, and
agreed with counsel for the Century Mercantile Company that
the dispute should be decided by the court of bankruptcy.
The defendant offered to show that subsequently the court
decreed that the provision in the lease was void, and that the
fixtures, including the show cases, were the property of the
bankrupt. This evidence was excluded, and, we think, erroneously. It tended, in connection with other evidence, to.
show the nature of Murphy's possession, and that he was insisting upon his right as receiver, and had not accepted the
goods personally as bailee of the Century Mercantile Company.
Pending the settlement of the dispute, and for no other reason
than that the dispute existed, the show cases were omitted
from the inventory. The facts which have been recited deprived this omission of all significance as showing that Murphy
had any other possession than as receiver.

MURPHY v. JOHN HOFMAN CO.
211 U. S.

.573

Opinion of the Court.

At the trial Murphy relied upon his possession as receiver
to defeat the action. His answer had set up that defense, and
in many ways, which it would be unprofitable to Set forth in
detail, he sought to avail himself of it. It is enough to say
that at the conclusion of the evidence the court was requested
to direct a verdict for the defendant Murphy, upon the grounds,
among others, "That the plaintiff has not shown itself entitled
to possession at the time of the commencement of the action,
but has shown that the then present right of possession was
in the United States Court," and "the plaintiff has not shown
that the property was in the possession of the defendant
Murphy, but that it was in the possession of the United States
Court," and "this Court had no jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of this action when it was commenced." The judge
presiding at the trial refused, under exception, to give any of
these instructions, and submitted the case to the jury in a
charge which -made no reference to the rights of Murphy as
a receiver, or to the possession of the property by him as an
officer of the court of bankruptcy, other than to say "as the
case then stood, Mr. Murphy was claiming this property as
the receiver of the Dodge Company." The judge instructed
the jury that if they should find that the show cases furnished
by the Hofman Company had not been accepted by the Dodge
Company, then.the title failed to pass and the verdict must
be for the plaintiff. Thus the whole Federal question, so far
as it was a question of fact, was withdrawn from the consideration of the jury. Subsequently, after a colloquy with the
defendant's counsel, in which he stated that Murphy made'no
claim as an individual to the property in dispute, and did not
ask its return to him, the judge, against the objection and
under the exception of Murphy, peremptorily directed a verdict for the plaintiff. We do not set forth that colloquy in full,
although it is much relied upon by the defendant in error.
While the statements of counsel were confused, we think that
what was said by him amounted to nothing more than an
assertion that Murphy had had no relation to the property,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

except as receiver, and that his possession as receiver entitled
him to claim for the property thus possessed and controlled,
an immunity from the process of the state court.
But one other question needs any attention. It has been
seen that the injunction against proceedings in the state court
in this case, granted by the judge of the bankruptcy court on
October 9, 1903, was vacated about a year later. The reason
for this does not appear in the record. The Hofman Company,
however, relies upon this vacation of the order of injunction
as an abandonment by the court of bankruptcy of its possession
of the property and a turning over of it to be dealt with by the
state court. We cannot give to the order vacating the injunction this meaning. If it has any tendency whatever to show
an abandonment of possession, it is fully explained by much
evidence of a dealing with the property by the bankruptcy
court, some of which was excluded at the trial.
I On the whole case, we are of the opinion that the seizure
of
these goods on a writ of replevin from another court was an
unlawful invasion of the possession of the court of bankruptcy,,
which cannot be justified'by the assertion, entirely unsupported
by the evidence, that Murphy was then holding the goods,
not as an officer of the court, but as an individual.
For this reason the judgment is reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

