PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

for the false work which could have been employed after the
accident, and, as they also established, that the objection of
the bridge company to pursuing that method was alone based
upon the assumed right to complete the work by the use of
false work in the navigable channel after the period stipulated in the contract-a right which we hold the bridge company did not enjoy-we think no express or implied obligation rested upon the' United States to pay for the cost of the
temporary liftspan and that the court below was correct in
so holding.
Disposing of the case, as we do, upon the interpretation of
the contract heretofore made, it is unnecessary to consider
whether, even assuming that there could be a different interpretation, the bridge company would be entitled to recover, in
view of the facts found below as to the state of the work on
the drawspan at the time the accident Occurred, that is, the
backwardness of such work, which it was expressly found was
due solely to the negligence of the bridge company.
Affirmed.

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 13.

Argued October 26, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

Crime and credulity are not the same and mere neglect on the part of
a prosecuting officer to investigate the character of witnesses on
whose testimony an indictment is based is not tantamount to deliberate design; and in a suit for libel brought by such an officer
against the owner of a journal charging him with blackmail, evidence
as to wlether he had made such investigation was properly excluded
as irrelevant, the court not having excluded evidence as to the plaintiff's character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

211 U. 6.

In this case the court below rightly held the defendant responsible for
the publication of the libel.,
28 App. D. C. 498, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom Mr. Samuel Maddox and
Mr. H. Prescott Gatley were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The cross-examination of the plaintiff was being properly
conducted when interrupted by the court.
The "good faith" of the defendant in error in procuring
the Rockville indictment went to the very heart of the action.
If it could have been made to appear by the admissions of the
witness, testifying in his own behalf, that while State's attorney he was in league with the man Hudson and the insurance
companies, in a* scheme which his predecessor denominated
"blackmailing," the jury would have made short work of the
case when they retired to consider of their verdict; and it was
impossible to do this except by probing the conscience of the
witness through the medium of cross-examination.
As tending to show that he was not a man of gorAl character, evidence of particular acts of misconduct would not
have been admissible except in the way attempted-by crossexamination when he tendered himself as a witness in. his
own behalf.
The rule is now well settled that this may be done. Wigmore on Evidence, § 981, and cases there cited; Eames v.
1The syllabus in the report of this case below, 28 App. D. C. 498,
on the question of responsibility, is as follows:
"A charge to the jury in a libel case is correct which in effect states that
one who procures the publication of a newspaper article libelous per se,
or the circulation of copies of a newspaper containing such an article,
is liable to the person defamed, no matter who wrote the article; and
that a principal is responsible for a libelous newspaper article written
by his agent, if the agent's general authority was such as fairly carried
with it the authority to express in the principal's behalf what the article contains."

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Kaiser, 142 U. S. 491; Griffin v. Henderson, 117 Georgia, 383;
Townshend on Slander, 669, §406; Newell on Libel and Slander,
290, § 39;' Earl of Leicester v. Walter, 2 Camp. 251; Witherbee
v. Marsh, 20 N. H. 563; Wilson v. Noonan, 27 Wisconsin, 598;
Conroe v. Conroe, 47 Pa. St. 198; Varnum v. Townsend, 21
Florida, 447; Treat v. Browning, 4 Connecticut, 409; Williams
v. Miner, 18 Connecticut, 477; Odgers on Libel and Slander,
Bigelow's Notes, §§ 304, 305.
The greatest latitude is and should be allowed on crossexamination, especially of a party to the suit, for the purpose
of sifting the conscience of the witness, touching his accuracy.
of statements, veracity, and credibility; and even specific,
extraneous offenses and other matters material to the issues
may be inquired into, if they have any bearing thereon. 1
Greenleaf, § 446; 3 Jones on The Law of Evidence, § 826;
Taylor on Evidence (8th ed.), § 1459; Kirschner v. The State,
9 Wisconsin, 137; Hitchcock v. Moore, 70 Michigan, 112; Hay v.
Reid, 85 Michigan, 296, 307; State v. Merriman, 34 S. Car. 39.
The line of examination which was interrupted by the
court was entirely material. If the defendant in error, vested
with the-power of destroying the character of 'his fellow citizens, undertook so to do upon the unsupported statements
of a perfect stranger, into whose character he made no inquiry
before using that power against plaintiffs in error, he manifested in himself a character so far below the standard as to
make the injury to him proportionately less than would be
the injury to a man whose character is normal.
In many of the later cases the' rule has been modified to
the extent that matter tending to mitigate damages, even
though, at the same time, bearing in the direction of testimony tending to prove the truth of the libel, might be admitted as mitigating damages upon both the grounds above
indicated, namely, first, as derogating from the character of
the plaintiff, and, second, as reducing the malice involved in
publishing the libel. Had the testimony here excluded been
,admitted, it would have been a fair and forcible argument to

'202

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

211 U. S.

make to the jury both that the defendant in error, being a
man so reckless of regard for his duty and the rights of others,
had not the character entitling him to the solace for its injury,
which a man of normal character might demand, and also
that the plaintiffs in error, smarting under the infliction of
an injury growing out of such recklessness, could not be held
guilty of the extent of malice to be imputed to one without
any such instigation publishing a libel against another.
The trial court in the matter of the rule that the truth
cannot be given in evidence on the issue of not guilty, gave
undue weight to the case of Underwood v. Parkes, 2 Strange,
1200. See Bush v. Prosser, 11 N. Y. 362; Van Derveer v.
Sutphin, 5 Ohio St. 302; Huson v. Dale, 19 Michigan, 29, 30.
The result of the authorities is that while in impeaching the
character of a witness the inquiry is, in general, limited to
his general reputation, yet where the feature or trait of character sought to be inquired into touches, or is involved in,
any issue in the case, such feature or trait may properly be
gone into, especially where the witness is a party and the
feature or trait in question is directly pertinent to the gravamen of the action or the peculiar ground of damage alleged.
In a case of libel involving the character of the plaintiff,
any matter tending to. show that his character is of a sort
not susceptible to damage is clearly pertinent; and how much
more pertinent is an inquiry tending to show that in respect
of a particular character, as that of probity in office, the
plaintiff lacks it; and that he lacks it is, as of course, better
shown by proof of specific acts of dishonor, brought directly
home, than by proof of the general estimation in which he
may be held by those ignorant of such acts. In the case at
bar the interrupted attempt was to show that the defendant
in error, by reason of his conduct in the very matter in controversy, was not entitled to and did not have the peculiar
character in respect of which he claimed to have been injured, namely, a character for probity in office; and tae re-'
fusal to permit this matter to be gone into on cross-examination

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

worked injury to the plaintiffs in error so manifest as of itself
to-call for a reversal of the judgment.
Mr. Andrew Lipscomb and Mr. John Ridout for defendant
in error:
The line of interrogation was not true cross-examination
because not responsive to the direct examination.
It was obviously useless because the court cannot suppose
that the defendant in error would have admitted that he
had acted in bad faith in submitting the matter to the grand
jury and preparing an indictment upon their presentment.
so that no harm to plaintiffs in error ensued although palpable
injury to defendant in error did result because he was thereby
precluded from giving his version of the finding of the indictment.
Upon, familiar principles the court cannot deal with the
supposed error because there is nothing in the record in the
nature of an offer to prove any definite fact by the witness,
so that the court cannot tell what the effect of the ruling was
except that it can be plainly seen that it was more injurious
to defendant in error than to plaintiffs in error.
This clearly appears by Mr. Lipscomb's statement in the
record that he was willing the so-called cross-examination
should proceed on the lines indicated.
It was a clear attempt to prove by cross-examination and
in advance a part of the defendant's case in chief.
It is well settled that this cannot be done over objection,
either by the court or by counsel. Jones on Evidence, §§ 820,
821, 837; Philadelphia Ry. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 461;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Urlin, 158 U. S. 271.
The "English rule" allowed practically a cross-examination
of a witness on the whole case, but it is by the "American
rule" equally well settled in a large majority of States and
all the Federal courts that it is limited to matters brought
out by tile direct. Houghton v. Jones, 1 Wall. 702; Philadelphia R. R. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

It was also plainly an attempt to prove justification without
pleading it, and this as the record discloses, was the controlling
reason for the sua sponte ruling by the court.
Justification cannot be proved in this jurisdiction unless
specially pleaded, and here the only plea was the general
issue. The doctrine on this subject is stated by Mr. Newell
in his work on Libel and Slander, §§ 68 to 76 and the notes
thereto.
The doctrine briefly stated and established beyond any
peradventure is that "the truth" or "justification" must be
specially pleaded and with sufficient precision and particularly to enable the plaintiff to know precisely what is the
charge he is to meet. Richardson v. State, 66 Maryland, 205;
Smith v. Tribune, 22 Fed. Rep. 13, 118; Woodruff v. Richardson, 20 Connecticut, 238; Knight v. Foster, 39 N. H. 576;
Smith v. Blanchard, 42 N. H. 137.
The scope and extent of the cross-examination like the
order of proof are within the sound judicial discretion of the
trial court, and such rulings will not be disturbed unless they
clearly amount to an abuse of that discretion.
The bad character either generally or in the office as State's
attorney of defendant in error may be shown, but such showing should be made 'by, , and only by independent proof, as
part of defendant's case. Such proof was not offered and at
the argument counsel for appellants admitted that it could
not be obtained. This' admissioh sustains the contention
already made that ,the so-called examination would have
been not only useless but injurious to appellants.
MR. JUSTICE MCK.NNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is 'an. action for libel brought in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia. 'The plaintiff in the action, defendant in error here, secured a verdict for $8,500, upon which
judgment was entered. It was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 28 App. D. C. 498.

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are set out at some length in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, and need not be repeated. It is enough to
say that defendant in error Talbott was, at the time of the
publication of the libel, State's attorney for the county of
Montgomery, in the State of Maryland. During his incumbency of that office an indictment was found upon the testimony of one Hudson, charging plaintiffs in error with the
crime of arson, for having set fire, it was charged, to a building
owned by, them in Montgomery county. The building was
insured for $30,000, of which, after controversy, there was
paid $21,000. The libelous article was published in a paper
published in the city of Washington, called the Sunday Globe,
and copies circulated in the county of Montgomery, Md.
The article was entitled "History of a Crime in which District
Attorney Talbott, of Maryland, Enacts a Leading Role."
It accused Tabott of entering into a "criminal scheme" with
Hudson, and a man by the name of Hopp, to blackmail Pickford and Walter, plaintiffs in error, which "culminated"
in the "nefarious indictment," and, in order that the actors
in it might be "unmasked," the facts were said to be stated
as they were learned "after a thorough investigation." Certain facts and instances were detailed, among others the association of Hudson and Hopp, an attempt by the latter to
obtain money from Pickford to stop the prosecution of the indictment, the payment of Pickford to Hopp of certain marked
bills, the arrest of Hopp, the advancement of money by Talbott to Hudson, the demand of Pickford's attorney for trial
of the indictment, and motions to continue the same by Talbott, and the final dismissal of the same by him when the court
peremptorily ordered him to proceed. The article concluded
with these words: "The district attorney [Talbott] thereupon,
by leave of the court, entered a nol. pros. and the great conspiracy thus came to an inglorious end."
It appeared from the evidence that the predecessor in office
of Talbott (Alexander Kilgour) had refused to prosecute plaintiffs in error, and to him, plaintiff in error, Pickford, in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

testimony, attributed the declaration that the "whole thing"
was a "blackmailing scheme." Kilgour, in his testimony,
stated that he did not recall using the word "blackmailing,"
but said that in all probability he had done so, and "that it
was an effort on the part of the insurance companies to use
his office for the purpose of collecting their money."
The declaration contained four counts, the first of which
was taken from the jury. In all of them, however, Talbott
alleged his incumbency of the office of State's attorney for
the county of Montgomery, and that, as "such officer, he was
always reputed'amongst the citizens of said county" and of
the United States, "and deservedly so reputed, to be upright,
honest, just and faithful in the performance of the public
duties imposed upon him by his oath of office and the laws
of the State of Mayland." Injury to his good name and credit
was alleged. The defendants pleaded the general issue.
At the trial, Talbott being on the stand, testified that he
had investigated the crime for which Pickford and Walter

were indicted, and that it had been brought to his attention
by a man by the name of Thompson, "in a vague and indefinite
letter," which was followed by another letter, in which it
was stated the crime was arson. He testified that Thompson
was a newspaper man, whom he had never seen before, and
on whom he called in response to the second letter. He also
testified that Thompson told him that Hudson would be a
witness, but did not tell him .who Hudson was, but that he
(Hudson) was thoroughly in touch with the situation. Subsequently he went with Thompson to see Hudson, taking a
stenographer with him. He further testified that he did not
know whether he asked Thompson if the matter had been
brought to the attention of Mr. Kilgour. And further testified that the fire occurred during Kilgour's incumbency, and
that he had not inquired of Kilgour about it. He also testified
that the fire occurred in September, 1897, two years and four
months before he qualified. He testified further that both
Thompson and Hudson were strangers to him. At this point

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
211 U. S.

Opinion of tile
Court.

the court interrupted the examination, and the following
occurred:
"The COURT. On what line are you pursuing this inquiry?
"Mr. MADDOX. I am going to show, if I can, the absence of
good faith in this indictment on the part of the district attorney.
"Thereupon, after discussion and explanation on the part
of counsel for defendants, the following occurred:
"The COURT. I think I have heard enough to know what
your proposition is. I cannot see but that it is an attempt
to prove the truth without pleading it.

.

.

. You may

prove anything Pickford, heard the witness say, before the
article was published.
"Mr. MADDOX. I want to prove by this witness first by his

own testimony in connection with the transaction coml)lained
of in this article, that he is not a man of good character, which
he says he is.
"Mr. LIPSCOMB. I do not object by our [to your] asking him

that, -Mr. Maddox.
"Secondly. I want to show that Mr. Pickford, from what
he heard the plaintiff say, had reasonable grounds to believe
that he was mixed Lip in some way with this conspiracy.
"The COURT. You may prove anything Pickford heard
the witness say before the article was published.
"Mr. MADDOX. I understand the court will not let me go
into the inquiry as to whether or not the plaintiff knew the
man ludson before he made this present.ment to the grand
jury and whether he investigated the character of the man.
"The COURT. Under your statement that you propose by
that line of testimony to prove that the district attorney acted

in bad faith, I will not hear it., because I do not think it is
relevant for that purpose."
This ruling is assigned as error here, as it was in the Court
of Appeals, and it is attacked on the ground that "the 'good
faith' of the defendant in error in procuring the Rockville indictinent went to the very heart of the action." And counsel

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

supplement this by saying that "if it could have been made
to appear by the admission of the witness, testifying in his own
behalf, that while State's attorney he was in league with the
man Hudson and the insurance companies, in a scheme which
his predecessor denominated 'blackmailing,' the jury would
have made short work of the case when they retired to consider their verdict; and it was impossible to do this except by
probing the conscience of the witness through the medium of
cross-examination." It is obvious, by "good faith," counsel
mean the truth of the charge. But in the subsequent discussion they seem to make it equivalent to good character,
and contend that the examination was in rebuttal of the allegation of the declaration that defendant in error "was upright, honest and just" in the performance of his official duties.
For the right to show the character of the witness counsel
adduce many cases, and assert besides the freedom that may
be exercised in cross-examination. But the counsel who tried
the case marked a distinction between the character of the
witness and his good faith, and on that distinction the court
made its ruling. It will not do now to identify them and claim
a right that was not denied. The attorney for defendants
(plaintiffs in error) was careful to say that he made no objections td questions directed to character, and the final purpose as declared had no reference to that. But what is the
testimony and what is the argument built upon it? Counsel
who conducted the defense said: "I understand the court
will not let me go into the inquiry as to whether or not the
plaintiff knew the man Hudson before he made this presentment to the grand jury, and whether he investigated the character of the man." It is now argued that this was an inquiry
of a specific fact affecting the character of Talbott, showing
that he exhibited a "reckless disregard of the rights of others,"
and this, taken in connection with certain facts mentioned,
"shows," it is said, "a readiness on the part of the defendant
in error to smirch the character of plaintiffs in error amounting
to recklessness, such that if the defendant in error were at

PICKFORD v. TALBOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

bar for his conduct in the premises would be held to show
malice of the degree calling for punitive damages." And it is
urged, after considerable discussion, that "the interrupted
attempt was to show that the defendant in error, by reason
of his conduct in the very matter in controversy, was not
entitled to and did not have the peculiar character in respect to
which he claimed to have been injured, namely, a character
"
for probity in office.
We are not able to concur in the conclusion. A charge of
using an office to procure an indictment as part of a conspiracy to blackmail could not be justified or in any degree excused by the facts offered to be proved. One might be a careful
and zealous officer and not stop to investigate the characters
of prosecuting witnesses. Besides, the charge was not of
careless credence of an accusation of crime against innocent
men, but of a scheme deliberately planned, through a "nefarious indictment," to use the words of the libel, to extort
money from innocent men. We think, therefore, that the
trial court was right in rejecting the proffered evidence as
irrelevant. We could not hold otherwise, unless we should
hold that crime and credulity are one and the same thing,
and we repeat that the mere neglect to investigate the character of witnesses is not equivalent to such disregard of the
rights of others as to be tantamount to deliberate design, certainly not a deliberate design to blackmail. We say "mere
neglect," because this was all the offer amounted to. It was
already in evidence for what it was worth that Hudson was a
stranger to Talbott.
The second assignment of error is based upon the contention that the court erroneously instructed the jury in regard
to the :esponsibility of the plaintiff in error for the libel.
It is n,-t necessary to give the testimony. We will assume
that it might have been contended that plaintiffs in error were
not connected with either the printing or publishing of the
first article or the second (there were two), or with either.
The instruction asked 1,11d the instructions given by the court
VOL.

cc-xi--14

OCTOBER TERM, 1908..
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

are too long to be copied and difficult to summarize. They are
set out in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, and it will be
seen from them that those given by the court, which-were
not objected to, embodied all, as the Court of Appeals held,
that was contained in the instruction refused, adapted to the
testimony and the consideration which the jury might give
to its various phases.

Jud 'mentafimd

PRENTIS et al., CONSTITUTING THE STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF VIRGINIA, v. ATLANTIC
COAST LINE COMPANY.
SAME v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
SAME v. CHESAPEAKE WESTERN RAILWAY.
SAME v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
SAME v. NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
SAME v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

Nos. 270, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275. Argued October 16, 19, 20, 1908.Decided November 30, 1908.
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, a State may, by constitutional provision, unite legislative and judicial powers in the same
body.
A judicial inquiry investigates, declares and enforces liabilities as they
stand on present or past facts and under existing laws, while legislation looks to the future and changes conditions, making new rules
to be thereafter applied.
The making of a rate by a legislative body, after hearing the interested
parties, is not res judicata upon the validity of the rate when questioned by those parties in a suit in a court. Litigation does not arise
until after legislation; nor can a State make such legislative action
res judicata in subsequent litigation.

