GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

Fed. Rep. 862, supra, "the sailor's only means of subsistence
on shore are his wages earned at sea. If these may be stopped
by an attachment suit the instant his ship is moored to the
wharf, a new hardship is added to a vocation already subject
to its full share of the ills of life."

We think that § 4536, construed in the light of the other
provisions of the same Title, prevents the seizure of the seaman's wages, not only by writs of attachment issued before
judgment, but extends the like protection from proceedings

in aid of execution, or writs of attachments, such as are authorized by the Hawaiian statutes, after judgment.
Finding no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of

Hawaii, the same is
Affirmed.

GARFIELD, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v. UNITED STATES ex rel. GOLDSBY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1o. 248.

Argued October 15, 18, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

While acts of public officials which require the exercise of discretion
may not be subject to review in the courts, if such acts are purely
ministerial or are undertaken without authority the courts have
jurisdiction, and mandamus is the proper remedy.
There is no place in our constitutional system for the exercise of arbitrary power, and the courts have power to restore the status of parties
aggrieved by the unwarranted action of a public official.
One who has acquired rights by an administrative or judicial proceeding cannot be deprived of them without notice and opportunity to
be heard; such deprivation would be without due process of law.
After the Secretary of the Interior has approved a list containing the
name of a person found by the Dawes Commission to be entitled
to enrollment for distribution he cannot, without giving that person

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

notice and opportunity to be heard, strike his name from the list.
It would not be due process of law.
30 App. D. C. 177, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney: General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Fowler, with whom Mr. William R. Harr was on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
The matters referred to in the petition are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and not
subject to judicial review.
The matters referred to in the petition relate to the allotment of land and distribution' of the property of the Chickasaw Nation, one of the Five Civilized Tribes in the Indian
Territory. As to this there can be no question. Enrollment is
merely an incident of the allotment scheme.
The allotment and distribution of the tribal lands and other
tribal property of the Chickasdw Nation is a political matter
and within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, except as
it has otherwise provided. The a6ricies which Congress chose
to execute this work were the Commission .to the Five Civilized Tribes, which it especially created for the purpose, and
the Secretary of the Interior. Act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat.
1048-1050.
No court has jurisdiction, unless authorized by Congress,
and Congress has expressly refrained from conferring any
jurisdiction upon the courts in that regard, although at the
same time it has conferred certain jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts of the United States in respect to allotments elsewhere. Indian appropriation act of August 15, 1894, 28 Stat.
286, 305, as amended by the act of February 6, 1901, 31 Stat.
760; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, 468; Hy-yu-tse-mil-lcin
v. Smith, 194 U. S. 413; The Rickert Case, 188 U. S. 432.
The political character of the legislation of Congress with
respect to the allotment, and distribution of the property of

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the Indian tribes, its plenary authority with respect thereto,
and its freedom from judicial control in that regard, have been
frequently maintained by the Supreme Court. Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 294; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553.
Even if respondent's predecessor may have .acted hastily
or illadvisedly, this would not be a sufficient reason to give
the courts jurisdiction. Blackfeather v. United States, 190 U. S.
373.
The legal title to the lands claimed by the relator being
still in the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations, the lower court should have declined to interfere.
The approval of the Secretary of the Interior of allotments
is required by §§ 11, 12 of the act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495.
These provisions, not being inconsistent with the act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat. 641, are still in force. See par. 68 of the latter
act. Under the practice in these matters the Secretary's approval of an allotment is given when he approves the patent
therefor. In an opinion rendered May 22, 1905, 25 Opin. A. G.
460, the Attorney General held that the approval of the Secretary of the Interior of patents for allotments in the Choctaw
and Chickasaw Nations was necessary in order to transfer the
interest of the United States. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S.
473, 476; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396; Humbird. v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480, 505; United States v. Detroit
Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 337, 338; Love v. Flahive, 205 U. S.
195, 198.
The Secretary of the Interior is given exclusive jurisdiction
of all matters relating to the allotment of land. Par. 24, act
of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 641. This declaration immediately
follows the statement in the preceding paragraph that allotment certificates issued by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes shall be conclusive evidence of the right of any
allottee to the tract of land described therein.
The power of the Land Department to cancel the iina
receiver's certificate has been often adjudgeCd.

Orchard v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

211 U. S.

Alexander, 157 U. S. 372; Parsons v. Venzke, 164 U. S. 89;
Thayer v. Spratt, 189 U. S. 346; Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S.
476.
The courts will not interfere, by injunction or mandamus,
with the action of executive officers requiring the exercise of
judgment and discretion. Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190
U. S. 324.
Whether a patent shall issue is certainly a matter involving
the exercise of judgment and discretion. Mandamus will not
lie to compel its issuing. United States v. Commissioner,5 Wall.
563; Secretary v. McGarrahan,9 Wall. 298.
The utmost the courts have ever done is to compel the delivery of a patent where it has been recorded and the title has
passed. United States v. Schurz, 102 .U.S. 378.
The Secretary of the Interior, in the light of the provisions
of the statutes relating to these allotments, felt himself authorized to correct any .mistakes that might have been made
in the approved lists ol members of such tribes prior to the
time fixed for the completion of the same.
The matter before the court is not affected by the question
of vested rights. If by reason of the selection of land made
to him the relator has acquired any vested rights therein, as
he alleges, he can assert them in the proper court after the
title to the land has passed from the United States and the
Chickasaw Nation. But that the mere expectation of a share
in the property of the nation arising from the fact of his once
having been enrolled does not create a vested right therein is
settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court. Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S. 294; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553; Morris v.
Hitchcock, 194 U. S. 384; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415.
Mr. Charles H. Merillat, with whom Mr. Charles J. Kappler
and Mr. James K. Jones were on the brief, for defendants in
error:
The Secretary of the Interior neither by express grant nor

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

necessary implication was given authority to strike names from
final approved rolls. His jurisdiction ceased with approval
of final rolls.
The Secretary of the Interior, having been invested with
authority to approve the rolls, his approval, whether right or
wrong, is not oper t for review here. Steel v.'St. Louis Smelting
Co., 106 U. S. 228; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 83.
Having approved the final rolls, the Secretary had exhausted his discretion. His approval of enrollment ended
authority in him. United States v. McDaniel, 7 Peters, 1, 14;
United States v. Thurber, 28 Fed. Rep. 56; Mosgrove v. Harper,
33 Oregon, 252.
Once declared to be citizens, by operation of law defendants
in error became entitled absolutely and of right to a vested
interest in tribal lands and funds.
Congress has conferred no power upon the Secretary of the
Interior to cancel an allotment certificate. The right to cancel
an allotment is a very different thing from the right to cancel
a receiver's certificate, and even a receiver's certificate carries
with it property rights which may not be lightly set aside by
the Secretary. Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372; Brown v.
Gurney, 201 U. S. 192.
The allotment certificates, like certification of lists of lands
under these special acts, convey a title as complete as patents.
See Frasherv. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102; Noble v. Union River
Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165; Stark v. Starr, 6 Wall. 402; Barney
v. Dolph, 97 U. S. 652.
Patent to the public lands, it has been held, is but evidence
of the right and title thereto of the patentee. The patent being
but evidence, relates back to the inception of the equitable
right. Detroit Lumber Co. v. United States, 200 U. S. 335.
The allotment certificate by statute is not the equitable right,
but the "conclusive evidence" of the right of the allottee.
Sec. 23, Choctaw-Chickasaw agreement of July 1, 1902. Enrollment gave a vested right to an undivided share, and the
allotment. certificate was the conclusive evidence of the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

211 U. S.

to a particular segregated tract, and the patent but a more
formal and recorded muniment of title. Wallace v. Adams,
143 Fed. Rep. 716; Garfield v. Frost, 30 App. D. C. 165.
Even were jurisdiction to cancel names on the final approved
rolls conceded, notice and opportunity of hearing in defense
are absolute prerequisites to its exercise. United States v.
Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 335; People ex rel. Van Petten v.
Cobb, 13 App. Div. N. Y. Reps. 56; Orchard v. Alexander, 157
U. S. 382; Atl. Del. Co. v. James, 94 U. S. 207; Conner v. Groh,
90 Maryland, 686.
While mandamus will not lie to control the discretion of an
executive officer or other tribunal, it is the appropriate remedy
where the officer charged with a public duty exceeds his jurisdiction, or where, having exercised his discretion, he has exhausted his jurisdiction and subsequently attempts notwithstanding to exceed and abuse his discretion and authority.
The enrollment of defendants in error exhausted judgment,
discretion and controversy. Linn v. Belcher, 24 How. 526;
Steel v. St. Louis Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 228; Johnson v.
Towsley, 13 Wall. 83; Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 147
U. S. 170; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 338; Ex parte Roberts,
15 Wall. 385; People ex rel. Burroughs v. Brinkerhoff, 68 N. Y.
262; Wise v. Biggar, 79 Virginia, 269; Crane v. Barry, 47
Georgia, 476; Raymond v. Villere, 42 La. Ann. 490; State v.
Mitchell, 31 Ohio St. 592; State ex rel. Brickman v. Wilson, 123
Alabama, 259. See also Romero v. Cortelyou, 26 App. D. C. 298;
West v. Hitchcock, 19 App. D. C. 333; Union Pacific R. R. v.
Hall, 91 U. S. 343-353; Illinois Central R. R. v. Illinois, 163
U. S. 142; Boston T. Co. v. Pomfret, 20 Connecticut, 590;
Schmulbach v. Speidel,. 50 W. Va. 553; Baltimore Univ. v.
Colton, 98 Maryland, 623; Harwood v. Marshall, 9 Maryland,
83; Jackson.v. State, 57 Nebraska, 183; Dawson v. Thurston, 3
Hen. and M. (Va.) 132; In re Strong, 20 Pickering (Mass.), 484;
Puford v. Fire Dept., 31 Michigan, 000.

The courts have jurisdiction in the premises, inasmuch as
the Secretary's discretion had been exhausted. Foltz v St.

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Louis R. R., 19 U. S. App. 581; Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall.
308; McLeod v. Receveur, 71 Fed. Rep. 455; Romero v. Cortelyou, 26 App. D. C. 298.
MR. JUSTICE

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus against the Secretary
of the Interior in his official capacity, to require him to erase
certain marks and notations theretofore made by his predecessor in office upon the rolls, striking therefrom the name of
the relator Goldsby as an approved member of the Chickasaw Nation, and to restore him to enrollment as a member
of the nation.
Goldsby, in his petition, claimed that he was a recognized
citizen of the Chickasaw Nation and entitled to an equal undivided interest in the lands of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations; that he was an owner of an allotment of land which
had been made to him as hereinafter stated, and that he was
entitled to an equal undivided distributive share of the funds
and other lands of the nation. The petition for the Writ recites at length the acts of Congress supposed to bear upon
the subject, and avers that the Secretary of the Interior on
October 6, 1905, affirmed a decision of the Commission to
the Five Civilized Tribes, holding that the petitioner and his
children were entitled to enrollment, and that relator's name
was placed on the final roll of citizenship by blood of the
Chickasaw Nation, and that the list was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior on November 27, 1905, and that
thereafter the petitioner secured an allotment of 320 acres
of the allotable lands of the Chickasaw Nation, and an allotment certificate was issued to him by the Commission to the
Five Civilized Tribes for the lands thus selected, and the same
are now held by him. The petition then goes on to aver, in
substance, that relator's name was stricken from the rolls on
March 4, 1907. And it is averred that this action was unau-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

.211 U. S.

thorized, was beyond the power of the Secretary, and deprived the relator of valuable rights in the lands and funds
of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations without due process
of law.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia issued an
order to show cause and the Secretary appeared and answered. The answer, we think, may be fairly construed to
contain a denial of the allegation, if the petition might be
construed to make the claim, that the relatot was an enrolled
member of the Chickasaw Nation, but it does admit that he
had been enrolled by 'the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes; that the list had been approved by the First Assistant
Secretary of the Interior, and averred that before the time
fixed by Congress for the completion of the rolls of members
of the'nation the then Secretary of the Interi nr had disapproved the enrollment of the petitioner and stricken his name
from the rolls. The answer admits that the certificate of allot-.
ment had been issued to petitioner by the Commission to tho
Five Civilized Tribes for lands selected by petitioner; and
further avers that the Secretary of thb Interior had not approved of such allotment, and- no patent had been issued
therefor.
The answer also admits, that it had been the practice of
Secretaries of the Interior to give notice before striking names °
from the approved lists of the Five Civilized Tribes, and avers
that owing to the limited time before the expiration of the
time fixed by Congress for the completion of the rolls, March 4,
1907, it was impossible to give notice and. opportunity to be
heard to relator' and a, large number of oher persons. The
answer avers that the respondent's predecessor, the then Secretary of the Interior, had no jurisdiction or authority to enroll the petitioner. It also avers that the allotment of lands
in severalty of the Chickasaw Nation was delegated exclusively
to the Secretary of the Interior.. That by the acts of Congress exclusive jurisdiction in matters. involving the making of
rolls of citizenship of the Five Civilized Tribes was conferred

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the Secretary of the Interior, and the determination of
such matters was within-his exclusive judgment and discretion.
A general demurrer was filed to the answer with a note
thereto stating that one matter to be argued on demurrer is
that the answer sets forth no sufficient reason in law for the
cancellation of relator's enrollment by the Secretary of the
Interior without notice or hearing. In the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia the demurrer to the answer was
sustained upon that ground. The respondent elected to stand
upon his answer. Judgment was entered requiring the Secretary to erase from the rolls the statements placed thereon
derogatory to the relator's rights in said tribe, and to recognize relator as an enrolled member of the nation. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia this
judgment was affirmed (30 App. D. C. 177), and the case
comes here.
While it does not appear from the allegations and admissions of the pleadings that Goldsby was an original enrolled
member of the tribe, it does appear that under the act of Congress of June 10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat. 339, Goldsby made
application to the Dawes Commission and was enrolled as a
member of the Chickasaw Nation. It appears from a letter
of the Secretary of the Interior to the commission, attached
as an exhibit to the petition, and dated October 6, 1905, that
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, on May 24, 1905,
following instructions of the department of April 2, 1905, and
in accordance with the opinion of the Assistant Attorney
General of March 24, 1905, in the case of Vaughn et al., rescinded
its action of September 23, 1904, dismissing the application for
the enrollment of Goldsby and his minor children, and held that
they should be enrolled as citizens, by blood, of the Cherokee
Nation, and that on July 7, 1905, the Indian Office recommended that the commission's decision be approved. The
Secretary's letter of October 6, 1905, concluded with a finding
that the applicants, including Goldsby, should be enrolled as
citizens of the Chickasaw Nation, affirming the commission's
VOL. ccxi-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

decision. The Secretary of the Interior, 'on April ,26, 1906,
reported his approval to the Dawes Commission, the roll as
approved was kept in the Secretary's office, and copies sent
out as the statute required.
Goldsby selected his land and received a certificate of allotment from the commission, but no patent has been issued
for the same. On March 4, 1907, the Secretary of the. Interior
without notice to the relator and without his knowledge,
erased his name from the rolls and opposite the same caused
the entry to be made,' "canceled March 4, 1907."
In the view which we take of this case, it is unnecessary to
recite at length the numerous acts of Congress which have
been passed in aid of the purpose of Congress to extinguish
the tribal titles to Indian lands and to allot the same among
the members thereof with a view of creating a State or States
which should embrace these lands.
The act of June 10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat. 339, empowered
the Dawes Commission to hear and determine applications for
citizenship, and gave an appeal, to the United States court
in the Indian Territory from the decisions of the commission;
made the judgment of that court final, and required the commission to complete its roll of citizens of the several tribes,
and to include therein the names of citizens, in accordance
with the requirements of the act. And the commission was
required to file the list of members as they finally approved
them, with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
The act of June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 497, §11, made
provision that when the roll of citizenship of any one of the
nations or tribes is complete, as provided by law, and a survey
of the land is made, the Dawes Commission should proceed to
allot the lands among the citizens thereof, as shown by the roll.
'By the act of March 3, 1901, c. 832, 31 Stat. 1077, it was
provided that the rolls made by the Commission to the Five
Civilized Tribes, as approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
should be final, and authorized the Secretary of the Interior
to fix the time by agreement with the tribes for the closing

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the roll, and upon failure of such agreement then the Secretary of the Interior should fix the time for the closing of the
rolls, and after which no name should be added thereto.
The act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, ratifies an
agreement with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, providing
for the allotment of lands, and provides in § 23: ,
"23. Allotment certificates issued by the Commission to
the Five Civilized Tribes shall be conclusive evidence of the
right of any allottee to the tract of land described therein;
and the United States Indian agent at the Union Agency
shall, upon the application of the allottee, place him in possession of his allotment, and shall remove therefrom all persons
objectionable to such allottee, and the acts of the Indian agent
hereunder shall not be controlled by the writ or process of
any court."
*Section 31 of the act made provision for the establishment
of a citizenship court. The provisions of the act, in this respect, are fully reviewed in former decisions of this court.
Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415.
It is sufficient to say that by the act of July 1, 1902, a suit
was authorized in the citizenship court to annul the citizenship
decrees made in the United States court in the Indian Territory,
under the act of June 10, 1896; provision was made for general suits in which a nation might be represented by ten
representative defendants, and it was provided that when
citizenship judgments in the court of the Indian Territory
were annul-led in the authorized test suit, the party aggrieved,
by being deprived of favorable judgment upon his claim of
citizenship, might himself appeal to the citizenship court,
and such proceeding should be had as ought to have been
had in the court to which the same was taken from the commission as if no judgment or decision had been rendered therein.
And it was further provided that no person whose name (lid
not appear upon the rolls, as provided for in this act, should
be entitled to participate in the common property of the
Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

The act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, provided
that the rolls of the tribes should be fully complete on orbefore
the fourth day of March, 1907, and after that day the Secretary of the Interior should have no jurisdiction to approve
the enrollment of any person.
It is insisted by the learned counsel for the Government
that the court had no jurisdiction to entertain this suit, because the legal title has not as yet passed from the Government, as no patent has passed. We have no disposition to
question those cases in which this court has held that the
courts may not interfere with the Land Department in the
administration of the public lands while the same are subject
to disposition under acts of Congress entrusting such matters
to that branch of the Government. Some of these cases are
cited in the late case of United States v. Detroit'Lumber Company, 200 U. S. 321, and the principle to be gathered from
them is, that while the land is under the control of the Land
Department prior to the issue of patent, the court will not
interfere with such departmental administration. This was
held as late as the case of Love v. Flahive, 205 U. S. 195, 198.
But the question presented for adjudication here does not
involve the control of any matter committed to the Land
Department for investigation and determination. The contention of the relator is, that as the Secretary had exercised
the authority conferred upon him and placed his name upon
the rolls, and the game had been certified to the commission,
and he had received an allotment certificate, and was in possession of the lands, the action of the Secretary in striking
him from the r611 was wholly unwarranted, and not within
the authority and control over public land titles given to the
Interior Department.
By the conceded action of the Secretary prior to the striking of Goldsby's name from the rolls he had not only become
entitled to participate in the distribution of the funds of the
nation, but by the express terms of § 23 of the act of July 1,
1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, it was provided that the certificate

GARFIELD v., GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the-Court.

should be conclusive evidence of the right of the allottee to the
tract of land described therein. We have therefore under consideration in this case, the right to control by judicial action
an alleged unauthorized act of the Secretary of the Interior
for which he was given no authority under any act of Congress.
It. is insisted that mandamus is not the proper remedy in
cases such as the one now under consideration. But we are
of opinion that mandamus may issue if the Secretary of the
Interior has acted wholly without authority of law. Since
Marbury. v.. Madison, 1, Cranch, 137, it has been' held that
there, is a distinction between those. acts which require the
exercise of discretion or judgment and those :which are purely
ministerial, or are undertaken entirely without authority,
which may become the subject of review in: the courts. The
subject was under consideration in Noble v. Union River
Logging Railroad, 147 U.5. 165, 171, and Mr. Justice Brown,
delivering the opinion -of the court, cites many of the previous
cases of this court, and, speaking for the court, says:
"We have no doubt the principle' of thesE decisions applies
to a case wherein it is contended that the act of theHead of a
Department, under any view that could bc taken of, the facts
that were laid before him, was ultra vires,, and, beyond, the
scope of his authority. Ifhe has no power at all to do the
act complained of, he is as -much subject to an injunction as
he would be to a mandamus if he refused to do an act which
the law plainly required -him to do. As observed by Mr. Justice Bradley in Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S.
531, 541: 'But it has been well settled that when a plain
official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who will
sustain personal injury by such refusal may have. a mandamus
to compel its performance; and when such duty is threatened
to be violated' by.some positive official act, any person who
will sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate
,compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

to prevent it. In such cases the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other.' "
We think this principle applicable to this case, and that
there was jurisdiction to issue the writ of mandamus.
In our view this case resolves itself into a question of the
power of the Secretary of the Interior in the premises, as
conferred by the acts of Congress. We appreciate fully the
purpose of Congress in numerous acts of legislation to confer
authority upon the Secretary of the Interior to administer
upon the Indian lands, and previous decisions of this court
have shown its refusal to sanction a judgment interfering with
the Secretary where he acts within the powers conferred by
law. But, as has been affirmed by this court in former decisions, there is no place in our constitutional system for the
exercise of arbitrary power, and if the Secretary has exceeded
the authority conferred upon him by law, then there is power
in the courts to restore the status of the parties aggrieved by
such unwarranted action.
In the extended discussion which has been had upon the
meaning and extent of constitutional protection against action
without due process of law, it has always been'recognized that
one who has acquired rights by an administrative or judicial
proceeding cannot be deprived of them without notice and
an opportunity to be heard.
The right to be .heard before property is taken or rights or
privileges withdrawn, which have been previously legally
awarded, is of the essence of due process of law. It is. unnecessary to recite the decisions in which this principle has been
repeatedly recognized. It is enough to say that its binding
obligation has never been questioned in this court.
The acts of Congress, as we have seen, have made provision
that the commission, shall certify from time to time to, the
Secretary of the Interior the lists upon which the names of
persons found by the commission to be entitled to enrollment
shall be placed. Upon the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior these lists constitute a part and parcel of the final

GARFIELD v. GOLDSBY.
211 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

rolls of citizens of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes and
Chickasaw freedmen, upon which allotments of lands and
distribution of tribal property shall be made.
The statute provides in § 30, act of July 1, 1902, supra:
"Lists shall be made up and forwarded when contests of
whatever character shall have been determined, and when
there shall have been submitted to and approved by the
Secretary of the Interior lists embracing names of all those
lawfully entitled to enr6llment the rolls shall be deemed complete. The rolls so prepared shall be made in quintuplicate,
one to be deposited with the Secretary of the Interior, one
with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, one with the principal
chief of the Choctaw Nation, one with the governor of the
Chickasaw Nation, and one to remain with the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes."
The Secretary took the action contemplated by this section
and acted upon the list forwarded by the commission. The
roll was made up and distributed in quintuplicate, as required by the statute. Notice was given to the commission,
and land was allotted to the relator, as provided by § 23 of
the act of July 1, 1902, supra. The relator thereby acquired
valuable rights, his name was upon the rolls, the certificate
of his allotment of land was awarded to him. There is nothing
in the statutes, as we read them, which gave the Secretary
power and authority, without notice and hearing, to strike
down the rights thus acquired.
Nor do we think it is an answer to the petition for a writ of
mandamus to'say, as is earnestly contended by the counsel
for the Government, that Goldsby's case comes within the
provisions of the act of July 2, 1902, establishing a citizenship
court, as it appears in this record that he was one of the claimants whose judgment in 'the court of the Indian Territory was
annulled'by the subsequent procedure in the citizenship court,
leaving to Goldsby the remedy of appealing himself to that
court, whtch, having failed to do, he has lost all right to enrollment, and therefore the decision of the Secretary of March 4,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

1907, striking him from the rolls ought not to be interfered
with for the reason that the writ of mandamus, upon wellsettled principles, ought not to issue to require the Secretary to
do that which it now appears he never had any lawful authority
to do. But we are of opinion that the facts now adduced are
insufficient to require us to say that Goldsby could not establish a right to enrollment. The Government contends, and
we have held, that it does not appear in this case whether
Goldsby's name was on the original or other tribal rolls, a
fact essential to be known in order to determine whether his
contention be sound that such an enrollment gave him the
right to participate in the division of the funds and lands of
the nation irrespective of the action of the Dawes Commission, the court of the Indian Territory, or the citizenship
court. The question here involved concerns the right and
authority of the Secretary of the Interior to take the action
of March 4, 1907, in summarily striking the relator's name
from the rolls. That is the question involved in this case.
For the reasons given we think this action was unwarranted,
and that the relator is entitled to be restored to the status he
occupied before that order was made.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is affirmed.

GARFIELD, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES ex rel. ALLISON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos. 249, 250.

Argued October 15, 18, 1908.-Decided November 30, 1908.

Decided on the authority of Garfield v. Goldsby, ante, p. 249.

. THE facts are practically the same as those stated in th
opinion of the preceding case.

