OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

least to allege that the State took and has held possession under the void grant. The United States might and undoubtedly
would deny the fact of such possession, and that fact cannot
be tried behind its back. It follows that the United States is
a necessary party and that we have no jurisdiction of this suit.
Bill dismissed.

TWINING v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 10.

Argued March 19, 20, 1908.-Decided November 9, 1908.

The judicial act of the highest court of a State in authoritatively construing and enforcing its laws is the act of the State.
Exemption from compulsory self-incrimination in the state courts is
:not secured by any part of the Federal Constitution.
a citizenship of the United States and a citizenship of the State
There is'
which are distinct from each other, Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36;
and privileges and immunities, although fundamental, which do not
arise out of the nature and character of the National Government, or
are not specifically protected by the Federal Constitution, are attributes of state, and not of National, citizenship.
The first eight Amendments are restrictive only of National action,
and while the Fourteenth Amendment restrained and limited state
action it did not take up and protect citizens of the States from action by the States as to all matters enumerated in the first eight
Amendments.
The words "due process of law" as used in the Fourteenth Amendment
are intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of
powers of government unrestrained by, the established principles of
private right and distributive' justice, Bank v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 235,
but that does not require that he be exempted from compulsory selfincrimination in the courts of a State that has not adopted the policy
of such exemption.
Exemption from compulsory, self-incrimination did not form part of
the "law of the land "prior to the separation of the colonies from the
mother-country, nor is it one pf the fundamental rights, immunities

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and privileges of citizens of the United States, or an element of due
process of law, within the meaning of the Federal Constitution or the
Fourteenth Amendment thereto.
The fact that exemption from compulsory self-incrimination is specifically enumerated in the guarantees of the Fifth Amendment tends
to show that. it was, and is to be, regarded as a separate right and not
as an element of due prbcess of law.
When a question is no longer open in this court, adverse arguments,
although weighty, will not be considered; and, under the doctrine of
stare decisis, Slaughter-HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36, and Maxwell v. Dow,
176 U. S.581, approved and followed.
Quwre and not decided whether an instruction that the jury may draw
an unfavorable inference from the failure of the accused to testify
in denial of evidence tending to criminate him amounts to a violation of the privilege of immunity from self-incrimination.
74 N. J. L. 683, affirmed.
ALBERT C. TWINING and David C. Cornell, the plaintiffs in

error, hereafter called the defendants, were indicted by the
grand jury of Monmouth County, in the State of New Jersey.
The indictment charged that the defendants, being directors
of the Monmouth Trust and Safe Deposit Company, knowingly
exhibited a false paper to Larue Vreedcnberg, an examiner of
the State Banking Department, with intent to deceive him as to
the condition of the company. Such an act is made a misdemeanor by a statute of the State (P. L. 1899, ).450, at 461),
which is as follows:
"Every director, officer, agent or clerk of any trust company
who willfully and knowingly subscribes or makes any false
statement of facts or false entries in the books of such trust
company, or knowingly subscribes or exhibits any false paper,
with intent to deceive any person authorized to examine as to
the condition of such trust company, or willfully or knowingly
subscribes to or makes any false report, shall be guilty of a high
misdemeanor and punished accordingly."
T he defendants were found guilty on March 1, 1904, by the
verdict of a jury, and judgment upon the verdict, thaft the
defendants be imprisoned for six and four years respectively,
was affirmed successively by the Suipreme Court .rnd the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

of Errors and Appeals. There needs to be stated here only such
part of what occurred at the trial as will describe the questions
on which this court is authorized to pass. It appeared that
in February, 1903, the company closed its doors. The bank
examiner came at once to the place of business for the purpose
of examining the affairs of the company, and found there
Twining .and Cornell, who were respectively president and
treasurer as well as directors. Having soon discovered that
according to a book entry there had been a recent payment of
$44,875, for 381 shars of stock, the examiner inquired of the
defendants by what authority this had been done, and was informed that it was done by authority of the board of directors,
and the following paper was produced to him as a record of the
transaction:
"Monmouth Trust & Safe Deposit Co., Asbury Park, N.J.
"A special meeting of the board of directors of this company
was held at the office of the company on Monday, Feb. 9th,
1903. "There were present the following directors: George
F. Kroehl, S. A. Patterson, G. B. M. Harvey, A. C. Twining, D.
C. Cornell. "The minutes of the regular meeting held Jan.
15th, 1903, were read, and on motion duly approved.
"All loans taken since the last meeting were gone over carefully, and, upon motion duly seconded, were unanimously approved.
"A resolution that this company buy 381 shares of the stock
of the First National Bank at $44,875 was adopted.
"On motion the meeting adjourned."
This was the paper referred to in the indictment, and it was
incumbent on the prosecution to prove that it was false and
that it was "knowingly" exhibited by the defendants to the
examiner. There was evidence on the part of the prosecution
tending to prove both these propositions. Th defendants
called no witnesses and did not testify themselves, although the
law of New Jersey gave them the right to do so if they chose.
In his charge to the jury the presiding judge said:
"Now, gentlemen, was this paper false? In the first place,

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the paper charged in the indictment Certifies' in effect that a
special meeting of the board of directors of this company was
held at the office of the company on Monday, February 9,
1903. There were present the following directors: George F.
Kroehl, S. A. Patterson, G. B. M. Harvey, A. C. Twining, D.
C. Cornell.
"Among other things, appears a resolutiQn of this company
to buy 381 shares of the stock of the First National Bank at
$44,875, which was adopted.
"Now, was that meeting held or not?
"That paper says that at this meeting were present, among
others, Patterson, Twining and Cornell.
"Mr. Patterson has gone upon the stand and has testified
that there was no such meeting to his knowledge; that he was
not present at any such meeting; that he had no notice of any
such meeting, and that he never acquiesced, as I understand,
in any way in the passage of a resolution for the purchase-of
this stock.
. "Now, Twining and Cornell, this paper says, were present.
They are here in court and have seen this paper offered in evidence, and they know that this paper says that they were the
two men, or two of the men, who were present. Neither of
them has gone upon the stand to deny that they were present
or to show that the meeting was held.
"Now, it is not necessary for these men to prove their innocence. It is not necessary for them to prove that this meeting
was held. But the fact that they stay off the stand, having
heard testimony which might be prejudicial to them, without
•availing themselves of the right to go upon the stand and contradict it, is sometimes a matter of significance.
"Now, of course, in this action, I do not see how that can
have much weight, because these men deny that they exhibited
the paper, and if one of these men exhibited the paper and the
other did not, I do not see how you could say that the person
who claims he did not exhibit the paper would be under any
obligation at all to go upon the stand. Neither is under any
VOL. CCXI--6

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

obligation. It is simply a right they have to go upon the
stand, and, consequently the fact that they do not go upon the
stand to contradict this statement in the minutes, they both
denying, through their counsel and through their plea, that
they exhibited the paper, I do not see that that can be taken
as at all -prejudicial to either of them. They simply have the
right togo upon the stand and they have not availed themselves
of it, and it may be that there is no necessity for them to go
there. I leave that entirely. to you."
Further, in that part of the charge, ielating to the exhibition
of the paper to the examiner, the judge said:
"Now, gentlemen, if you believe that that is so; if you believe this testimony, that Cornell did direct this man's attention to it-Cornell has sat here and heard that testimony and
not denied it-nobody could misunderstand the import of that
testimony, it was a direct accusation made against him of his
guilt-if you believe that testimony beyond a reasonable
doubt, Cornell is guilty. And yet he has sat here and not gone
upon the stand to deny it. He was not called upon to go upon
the stand and deny it, but he did not go upon the stand and
deny it, and it is for you to take that into consideration.
"Now Twining has also sat here and heard this testimony,
but you will observe there is this distinction as -to the conduct
of these two men in this respect: the accusation against Cornell
was specific by Vreedenberg. It is rather inferential, if at all,
against Twining, and he might say-it is for you to say whether
he might say, 'Well, I don't think the accusation against me is
made with such a degree of certainty as to require me to deny
it, and I shall not; nobody will think it strange if I do not go.
upon the stand to deny it, because Vreedenberg is uncertain
as to whether I was there; he won't swear that I was there.' So
consequently the fact that Twining did not go upon the stand
can have no significance at all.
"You may say that the fact that Cornell did not go upon the
stand has no significance. You may say so, because the circumstances may be such that there should be no inference

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

drawn of guilt or anything of that lind from the fact that he
did not go upon the stand. Because a man does not go upon
the stand you are not necessarily justified in drawing an inference of guilt. But you have a right to consider the fact that he
does not go upon the stand where a direct accusation is made
against him."
The question duly brought here by writ of error is, whether
the parts of the charge set forth, affirmed as they were by the
Court of last resort of the State, are in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Marshall Van Winkle, with
whom Mr. William W. Gooch, Mr. Herbert C. Smyth and Mr.
Frederic C. Scofield were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
Comment by the court upon the failure of the accused
to testify was a violation of the fundamental rights of the
plaintiff in error and was a denial of due process of law as
guaranteed by,the Fourteenth Amendment.
In each case the primary inquiry must be as to what is
the system of law of the particular State, and whether, according to that law, as adjudged by its courts, the procedure
in question is "due process;" and the secondary inquiry must
be whether in that process of law if followed, there is any
violation of the fundamental rights secured by the Federal
Coinstitution. Guthrie's Fourteenth Amendment, p. 72, citing
Kennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S.480, 481; Caldwell v. Texas,
137 U. S.692, 698; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S.462, 469; McNulty v. California, 149 U. S.645, 647.
When a statute, harmless on its face, is systematically enforced in violation of fundamental rights, the procedure is
not due process of law, and may be declared void and set aside
by the courts under the jurisdiction conferred by the Fourteenth Amendment. Guthrie, p. 73, and cases cited.
The State of New Jersey alone permits comment upon the
failure of the accused to testify, and bases its action solely
upon the absence of any restriction in the (11slifying statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908. .
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

.'21!U. S.

'holding that the accused is thus placed in the same position
as any party to a civil suit. Parkerv. State, 61 N. J. L. 308;
State v. Wines, 65 N. J. L. 31; State v. Banusik, 64 Atl. Rep.
994.
In this connection the decisions of courts of States in the
same class with New Jersey (as to statutory provisions on
this subject) should be considered. See, thbrefore, People
v. Tyler, 36 California, 522; Price v.'Commonwealth, 77 Virginia
(Ct. of App.), 393; State v. Howard, 35 S. Car. 202; Bird v.
Georgia, 50 Georgia, 585, 589.
See also, for statutes and decisions of the several States on
this subject, Wigmore on Evidence, Vol. 3, § 2272, n. .2,
and
Vol. 1, §488. Other cases are: Wilson v. United,States, 149
U. S.60; McKnight v. United States, 115 Fed. Rep. 982, 983;
Cooper v. State, 86 Alabama, 610; People v. Cuff, 122 California, 589; People v. Brown, 53 California, 66; People V.
Streuber, 121 California, 43; Quinn v. People, 123 Illinois, 345;
Baker v. People, 105 Illinois, .452; Austin v. People, 102 Illinois,
261; Angelo v. People, 96 Illinois, 209; Miller v. People, 216
•Illinois, 309; Wyaeharher v. People, 13 N. Y. 444, 447; Ruloff
v. People, 45 N. Y. 213, 225; People v6 Courtney, 94 N. Y.
492.
Comment by the court upon the failure of the accused to
testify was a denial to the plaintiff in error of his privilege
and immunity as a citizen of the United States guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, in that he was thus compelled
to be a witness against himself in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
Whether or not the Fourteenth Amendment has extended
the application of the principle of the Fifth Amendment to
the several States is still an open question undecided by this
court. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.104; The SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Barrington v. Missouri, 205 U. S.
486.
The power of the States to abridge these great rights of
citizens can never be conceded until the court shall expressly

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 'U.S.-

85

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

so decide' in a case involving the exact question, and adequately argued. Guthrie, p.. 62,
That this privilege is a fundamental right is shown by the
history of the provision contained in the Fifth Amendment.
.Brain v. United. States, 168 U. S. 543 et seq.; 1 Stephen's
History of the Criminal Law of England, 440; Story on the
Constitution (5th ed.), 1782 and 1788; 2 Story's Commentaries
on the Constitution (5th ed.), 697; Cooley's Const. Lim. (6th
ed.), 375; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 563. See Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, holding unconstitutional a
statute making the failure of a witness to attend and produce
evidence against himself, a confession of guilt.
Here a failure to take the stand is made an admission of
guilt.
The compulsion prohibited by the Fifth Amendment is
not alone physical or mental duress. United States v. Bell,
81 Fed. Rep. 837.
No statute, rule or regulation, or act of administration in
the given case, can be constitutional, which does not in somhe
way protect the 'right to be silent if the citizen chooses to be
silent. United States v. Bell, supra.
And as to requiring production of documents which would
have been self-incriminating, see McKnight v. United States,
115. Fed. Rep. 981.
. When a State violates a fundamental right of a citizen of
the United States, this court will interfere; and the laws of
a State come under the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment when they infringe fundamental rights. Ballard v.
Hunter, 204 U. S.262.
The State has full control over the procedure in its courts,
both in civil and criminal ases, subject only to the qulification that such procedure must not work a denial of fundamental rights or conflict with specific and applicable provisions
of the Federal Constitution. Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.
175; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 263; Rogers v. Peck, 199
U. S.425; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.563.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

Due process implies, at least, conformity to natural and
inherent principles of justice. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366.
In the Fourteenth Amendment, by parity of reasoning, it
refers to that law of the land, in each State, which derives its
authority from the inherent and reserved powers of the State,
exercised within the limits of those fundamental principles
of liberty and justice which lie at the base of all our civil and
political institutions, and the greatest security for which
resides in the right of the people to make their own laws
and alter them at their pleasure. Hurtado v. California, 110
U. S. 516. The purpose of that Amendment is to extend to
the citizens and residents of the States the same protection
against arbitrary state legislation affecting life, liberty and
property as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment against similar
legislation by Congress. Tonawanda v. Lyon, 181 U. S. 392;
Guthrie, 2, 3; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389; O'Neil v.
Vermont, 144 U. S. 323, 370.
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, Attorney General of the State of
New Jersey, and Mr. H. M. Nevius, with whom Mr. Nelson
B. Gaskill was on the brief, for defendant in error:
If the court shall be of the opinion that the charge of the
trial court had the effect of violating the privilege against
compulsory' self-crimination, we answer to the first assignment that it discloses no fundamental right or immunity
guaranteed to the plaintiffs in error as citizens of the United
States by the Fourteenth Amendment ihich has been abridged
by the decision of the court of last reso .t of New Jersey.
While it is unquestionably true that there has always been
in existence in this country a general government over and
among the States, the sole rights secured by constitutional
provision prior to the formation of the present Federal Government were those of the citizens of the several States. In
these several constitutions, as in that of New Jersey, the inhabitants of each State declared the limitations which were

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

deemed essential to the protection and preservation of their
cherished rights. The powers of the States differ in this respect from the powers of the general government, because,
representing the people of the State, each state government
exercises those powers against which it is not restrained by
the limitations of the state constitution; while the general
government, being a government of delegated powers, exer.cises only those powers which are contained in the provisions
of the Federal Constitution. In the rights and restrictions
under the state constitutions, therefore, rest the rights of the
citizens of the States as such.
When a Federal Government was later formed, a Federal
citizenship first came into being, not dependent upon the state
constitutions, and not equipped with common-law rights, but
dependent upon the essential requisites and provisions of the
instrument, the Federal Constitution, which called it into
being. The rights of a citizen of the United States may be
those of a citizen of any of the States by virtue of the. two
citizenships existing conjointly in any one person, but they
are not necessarily coincident; and the rights of a citizen of
the United States are not necessarily those of a citizen of any
of the individual States.
The duty of protection to a citizen of a State in his privileges and immunities is not by the Fourteenth Amendment
devolved upon the general government, but remains with the
State itself where it naturally and properly belongs. Story
on the Constitution (5th ed.), par. 1936. See also Kemmler v.
United States, 136 U. S. 448; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.
382; Wadleigh v. Newhall, 136 Fed. Rep. 946.
There is in the Federal Constitution, the source of the rights
.and immunities of the plaintiffs in error as' citizens of the
United States, no guarantee of a privilege against compulsory
self-crimination which is binding upon the courts of New
Jersey, or the abridgment of which by the state courts would
give corrective jurisdiction in the Federal Supreme Court.
The only basis for a contrary claim is found in the Fifth

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

Amendment which, however, is binding only on the Federal
Government and its agencies, and is not a limitation upon any
of the States. The rights or immunities which it creates,
therefore, are rights and immunities against Federal, but not
against state interference or abridgment. See Barron v.
Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, which was reviewed and followed in
Twitchell v. The Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321; Walker v. Sauvinet, ,92 U. S. 90; Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314; Holden v.
Hardy 169 U. S. 366; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Kelly
v. Pittsburg, 1041U. S. 78; Nashville v. Alabama, 128 U. S.96;
Davis v. Texas, 139 U. S.651.
As plaintiffs in error make no claim to this court as citizens
of 'New'Jersey, whatever rights and immunities have been
abridged are not a matter of concern to this court unless they
ean be shown to have had their origin in the Constitution
of. the United States, or its Amendments, or the necessary
requisites thereof.:. The only right against compulsory selfcrimination guaranteed to citizens of the United States is a
right and immunity operative in Federal courts, or in any
Sphere'of Federal influence, but there is no such right guaranteed as such to citizens of the United States by the Constitution of the United States or its Amendments, which the
State of Ne. Jersey is obliged to consider.
If it be true that the Fourteenth Amendment added to the
civil rights of citizens of the United States, the civil rights
peculiar to the other citizens of any State in which they might
choose to reside, and so far abolished the distinction between
citizenship of a State and of the United States, then it is only
necessary to inquire into the status of the rights and immunities with reference to the privilege against self-crimination
enjoyed by the citizens of the State of New Jersey at the time.
of the promulgation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This Amendment created no new civil rights. It merely
extended the operation of existing rights, and furnished additional protection to such rights. Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S.
.27; United States v. Sanges, 48 Fed. Rep. 78; Minor v. Hap-

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

persett, 21 Wall. 171; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542.
If, therefore,. there was added to the civil rights and immunities guaranteed to the plaintiffs in error as citizens of
the United States, any additional immunities or rights by
virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment, the addition comprises
only thosp rights and immunities which were common to all
other citizens of New Jersey in July, 1868, when the Amendment went into effect. And citizens of the United States,
resident in New Jersey, could have had at that time no greater
rights or immunities than the other citizens of New Jersey
enjoyed.
To a citizen of the United States there was at the time of
the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, no guaranteed
privilege or immunity with reference to an alleged error complained of which the courts of New Jersey were bound to
recognize, and in the courts of New Jersey as to all persons
under their jurisdiction, there was no right or immunity
against the submission by a trial court to a jury of the question and matter submitted in this case.
The courts of New Jersey had established at that time the
principle of privilege against self-crimination, and had also
established as a parallel and not as a contradictory principle,
that the question of inference to be raised by the failure to
deny a direct criminal accusation when opportunity offered,
might properly be submitted to a. jury. Plaintiffs in error
cannot show the existence of any fundamental right or immunity against compulsory self-crimination, guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment, which has been abridged by
the courts of New Jersey, as alleged by the pleader in his first
assignment of error. On the contrary,. the charge in this case.
was in accordance with the legal recognition of the right of
self-crimination as that right existed in New Jersey from the
very beginning, and which has not been altered or attempted
to be altered since the passage and adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

'90

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

• Plaintiffs in erior have no just complaint on the basis of
any want of due process of law. The Fourteenth Amendment
does not profess to secure to all persons in the United States
*the benefit of the same laws and the same remedies. Great
diversities in these respects may exist in two States separated
only by an imaginary line. Each State prescribes its own
modes of judicial proceedings. Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S.
321, citing Missou.ri v. Lewis, 101 U. S.51, and see also Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
535; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.92.
..The Fourteenth Amendment legitimately operates
to extend to the citizens and residents of the States the same protection against arbitrary state legislation affecting life, liberty
and property, as is offered by the Fifth Amendment against
similar legislation by Congress. But the Federal courts ought
not to interfere when what is complained of amounts to the
enforcement of the laws of a State applicable to all persons
in like circumstances and conditions, and the Federal courts
should not interfere unless there is some abuse of law amounting *to confiscation of property or deprivation of personal
rights. 9 Fed. Stat. Ann., 427.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of the case we do not deem it necessary
to consider whether, with respect to the Federal question,
there is any difference in the situation of the two defendants.
It is assumed, in respect of each, that the jury were instructed
that they might draw an unfavorable inference against him
from his failure to testify, where it was within his power, in
-denial of-the evidence which tended to incriminate him. The
law of the State, as declared in the case at bar, 'Which accords
with other decisions (Parkerv. State, 61 N. J. L. 308;'State v.
Wines, 65 N. J. L. 31; State v. Zdanowicz, 69 N. J. L. 619;
State v. Banuski, 64 Atl. Rep. 994), permitted such an inference
to be drawn. The judicial act of the highest court of the

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State, in authoritatively construing and enforcing its laws, is
the act of the State. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Scott
v. McNeal, 154 U. S.34; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
Company v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. The general question,
therefore, is, whether such a law violates the Fourteenth
Amendment, either by abridging the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States, or by depriving persons of
their life, liberty or property without due process of law. In
order to bring themselves within the protection of the Constitution it is incumbent on the defendants to prove two
propositions: 'first, that the exemption from compulsory selfincrimination is guaranteed by the Federal Constitution against
impairment by the States; and, second, if it be so guaranteed,
that the exemption was in fact impaired in the case at bar.
The first proposition naturally presents itself for earlier consideration. If the right here asserted is not a Federal right,
that is the end of the case. We have no authority to go further
and determine whether the state court has erred in the interpretation and enforcement of its own laws.
The exemption from testimonial compulsion, that is, from
disclosure as a witness of evidence against oneself, forced by
any form of legal process, is universal in American law, though
there may be differences as to its exact scope and limits. At
the time of the. formation of the Union the principle that no
person could be compelled to be a witness against himself had
become embodied in the common law and distinguished . it
from all other systems of jurisprudence. It was generally regarded then, as now, as a privilege of great value, a protection
to the innocent though a shelter to the guilty, and a safeguard
against heedless, unfounded or tyrannical prosecutions. Five
of the original thirteen States (North Carolina, 1776; Pennsylvania, 1776; Virginia, 1776; Massachusetts, 1780; New
Hampshire, 1784) had then guarded the principle from legislative or judicial change by including it in constitutions or bills
of rights; 'Maryland had provided in her constitution (1776)
that "no man ought to be compelled to give evidence against

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

.211 U. S.

himself, in a common court of law, or in any other court, but
in such cases as have been usually practiced in this State or
may hereafter be directed by the legislature;" and in the remainder of those States there seems to be no doubt that itwas
recognized by the courts. The privilege was not included in
the Federal Constitution as originally adopted, but was placed
in one of the ten Amendments which were recommended to the
States by the first Congress, and by them adopted. Since then
all the States of the Union have, from time to time, with varying form but uniform meaning, included the privilege. in their
constitutions, except the States of New Jersey and Iowa, and
in those States it is held to be part of the existing law. State v.
Zdanowicz, supra; State v. Height, 117 Iowa, 650. It is obvious
from this short statement that it has been supposed by the
States that, so far as the state courts are concerned, the privilege had its origin in the constitutions and laws of the States,
and that persons appealing to it must look to the State for their
protection. Indeed, since by the unvarying decisions of this
court the first ten Amendments of the Federal Constitution
are restrictive only of National action, there was nowhere else
to look up to the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and the State, at least until then, might give,
modify or withhold the privilege at its will. The Fourteenth
Amendment withdrew from the States powers theretofore
enjoyed by them to an extent not yet fully ascertained, or
rather, to-.speak more accurately, limited those powers and
restrained their .xercise. There is no doubt of the duty of this
court to enforce the limitations and restraints whenever they
exist, and there has been no hesitation in the performance of
the duty. But whenever a new limitation or restriction is declared it is a matter of grave import, since, to that extent, it
diminishes the authority of the State, so necessary to the perpetuity -of our dual form of government, and changes its relation to its people and to the Union. The question in the case
at bar has been twice before us, and been left undecided, as
the cases were disposed of on other grounds. Adams v. New

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

York, 192 U. S.585; Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont,
207 U. S. 541. The defendants contend, in the first place,
that'the exemption from self-incrimination is one of the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States which
the Fourteenth Amendment forbids the States to abridge.
It is not argued that the defendants are protected by that
part of the Fifth Amendment which provides that "no person

.

.

. shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a wit-

ness against himself," for it is recognized by counsel that by a
long line of decisions the first ten Amendments are.not operative
on the States. Barronv. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; Spies v. Illinois,
123 U. S. 131; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.172; Barrington
V. Missouri, 205 U. 5. 483. But it is argued that this privilege
is one of the fundamental rights of National citizenship, placed
under National protection by the Fourteenth Amendment, and
it is specifically argued that the "privileges and immunities
of citizens of *the United States," protected against state action by that Amendment, include those fundamental personal
rights which were protected against National action by the
first eight Amendments; that this was the intention of the
framers of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that this part of
it would otherwise have little or no meaning and effect. These
arguments are -not new to this court and the answer to them
is found in its decisions. The meaning of the phrase "privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States," as
used in the Fourteenth Amendment, came under early consideration in the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36. A statute
of Louisiana created a corporation and conferred upon it the
exclusive privilege, for a term of years, of establishing and
maintaining within a fixed division of the city of New Orleans
stock-yards and slaughter-houses. The act provided that
others might use these facilities for a prescribed price, forbade
the landing for slaughter or the slaughtering of animals elsewhere or otherwise, and established a system of inspection.
Those persons who were driven out of independent business

by this law denied its validity in suits which came to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

court by writs of error to the Supreme Court of the State
which had sustained the act. It was argued, inter "alia,that
the statute abridged the privileges and immunities of the plaintiffs in error as citizens of the United States, and the particular
privilege which was alleged to be violated was that of pursuing
freely their chosen trade, business or calling. The majority
of the court were not content with expressing the opinion that
the act did not in fact deprive the plaintiffs in error of their
right to exercise their trade (a proposition vigorously disputed
by four dissenting justices), which would have disposed of
the case, but preferred to rest the decision upon the broad
ground that the right asserted in the case was not a privilege
or immunity belonging to persons by virtue of their National
citizenship, but, if existing at all, belonging to them only by
virtue of their state citizenship. The Fourteenth Amendment,
it is observed by Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of
the court, removed the doubt whether there could be a citizenship of the United States independent of citizenship of the State,
by recognizing or creating and defining the former. "It is quite
clear, then," he proceeds to say (p. 74), "that there is a citizenship of the United States and a citizenship of a State, which
are distinct from each other, and which depend upon different
characteristics br circumstances in the individual." The description of the privileges and immunities of state citizenship,
given by Mr. Justice Washington in Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash.
C. C. 371, is then quoted, approved and (p. 76) said to include
"those rights which are fundamental," to embrace "nearly
every civil right for the establishment and protection of which
organized government is instituted," and "to be the class of
rights which the state governments were created to establish
and secure." This part of the opinion then concludes with
the holding that the rights relied upon in the case are those
which belong to the citizens of States as such and are under
the sole care and protection of the state governments. The
conclusion is 'preceded by the important declaration that the
civil rights theretofQre appertaining to citizenship of the States

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and under the protection of the States, were not given the
security of National protection by this clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The exact scope and the momentous consequence of this decision are brought into clear light by the dissenting opinions. The view of Mr. Justice Field, concurred
in by Chief Justice Chase and Justices Swayne and Bradley,
was that the fundamental rights of citizenship, which by the
opinion of the court were held to be rights of state citizenship,
protected only by the state government, became, as the result of the Fourteenth Amendment, rights of National citizenship protected by the National Constitution. Said Mr. Justice
Field (p. 95):
"The fundamental rights, privileges and immunities which
belong to him as a free man and a free citizen, now belong to
him as a citizen of the United States, and are not dependent
upon his citizenship of any State.

.

.

.

The Amendment

does not attempt to confer any new privileges or immunities
upon citizens, or to enumerate or define those already existing.
It assumes that there are such privileges and immunities which
belong of right to citizens as such, and ordains that they shall
not be abridged by state legislation. If this inhibition has no
reference to privileges and immunities of this character, but
only refers, as held by the majority of the court in their opinion,
to such privileges and immunities as were ,before its adoption
specially designated in the Constitution or necessarily implied
as belonging to citizens of the United States, it was a vain and
idle enactment, which accomplished nothing, and most unnecessarily excited Congress and the people on its passage.
With privileges and immunities thus designated or implied no
State could ever have interfered by its laws, and no new constitutional provision was required to inhibit such interference.
The supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United
States always controlled any state legislation of that character.
But if the Amendment refers to the natural and inalienable
rights which belong to all citizens, the inhibition has a profound
significance and consequence."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. 8.

In accordance with these principles it is said by the learned
justice that the privileges and immunities of state citizenship
described by Mr. Justice Washington, and held by the majority of the court still to pertain exclusively to state citizenship and to be protected solely by the state government, have
been guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment as privileges
and immunities of citizens of the -United States. And see the
concurring opinions of Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice Bradley in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, and in Butchers' Union
Company v. Crescent City Company, 111 U. S. 746. There can
be no doubt, so far as the decision in the Slaughter-House
Cases has determined the question, that the civil rights sometimes described as fundamental and inalienable, which before
the war Amendments were enjoyed by state citizenship and
protected by state government, were left untouched by this
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Criticism of this case
has never entirely ceased, nor has it ever received universal
assent by members of this court. Undoubtedly, it gave much
less effect to the Fourteenth Amendment than .some of the
public men active in framing it intended, and disappointed
many others. On the other hand, if the views of the minority
had prevailed it is easy to see how far the authority and independence of the States would have been diminished; by
subjecting all their legislative and judicial acts to correction
by the legislative and review by the judicial branch of the National Government. But we need not now inquire into the merits of the originaldispute. This part at least of the SlaughterHouse Cases has been steadily adhered to by this court, so.
that it was aid of it, in a case where the same clause of the
Amendment was under consideration (Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S.
581, 591), "The opinion upon the matters actually involved
and maintained by the judgment'in the case has never been
doubted or overruled by any judgment of this court." The
distinction between National and state citizenship and their
respective privileges there drawn has come to be firmly established. And so it was held that the right of peaceable assem-

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bly for a lawful purpose (it not appearing that the purpose had
any reference to the National Government) was not a right
secured by the Constitution of the United States, although
it was said that the right existed before, the. adoption of the
Constitution of the United States, and that "it is and always
has been one of the attributes of citizenship under a free gdvernment." United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 551.
And see Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S.. 1. In each case
the Slaughter-House Cases were cited by the court, and jn the
latter case the rights described by Mr. Justice Washington
were again treated as rights of state citizenship. under state
protection. If then it be assumed, without deciding the point,
that an exemption from compulsory self-incrimination is
what is described as a fundamental right belonging to. all who
live under a free government, and incapable of impairment by
legislation or judicial decision, it is, so far as the- States are
concerned, a fundamental right inherent in state citizenship,
and is a privilege or immunity .of that citizenship only. Privileges and immunities, of citizens of the United States, on the
other hand, are only such as arise out of the nature and essential character of the National Government, or are specifically
granted or secured to all citizens or persons by the Constitution of the United States. Slaughter-House.. Cases, supra,
p. 79; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448; Duncan v. Missouri,
152 U. S.377, 382.
Thus among the rights and privileges of National citizenship
recognized by this court are the right to pass freely from State
to State, Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; the right to petition
Congress for a redress of grievances, United. States v. Cruikshank, supra; the right to vote for National officers, Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58; the
right to enter the public lands, United States v. Waddell, 112
U. S. 76; the right to be protected against violence while in the
lawful custody of a United States marshal, Logan v. United
States, 144 U. S. 263; and the right to inform the United States
authorities of violation of its laws, In re Quarles, 158 U. S. 532.
voi,. ccxi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 190g.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Most of these cases were indictments against- individuals for
conspiracies to deprive persons of rights secured by the Constitution of the United States, and met with a different fate
in this court from the indictments in United States v. Cruikshank and Hodges v. United States, because the rights in the
latter cases were rights of state and not of National citizenship. But assuming it to be true that the exemption from selfincrimination is not, as a fundamental right of National citizenship, included in the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States, counsel insist that, as aright specifically granted
or secured by the Federal Constitution, it is included in them.
This view is based upon the contention which must now be
examined, that the safeguards of personal rights which are
enumerated in the first eight Articles of amendment to the
Federal Constitution, sometimes called the Federal Bill of
Rights, though they were by those Amendments originally
secured only against National action, are among the privileges
and immunities of citizens of the United .States, which this
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment protects against state*
action. This view has been, at different times, expressed by
justices of this court (Mr. Justice Field in O'Niel v. Vermont,
144 U. S.323, 361; Mr. Justice Harlan in the same case, 370,
and in Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 606, 617), and was undoubtedly that entertained by some of those. who framed the
Amendment. It is, however, not profitable to examine the
weighty arguments in its favor, for the question is no longer
open in this court. The right of trial by jury in civil cases,
guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment (Walker v. Sauvinet,
92 U. S.90), and the right to bear arms guaranteed by the
Second Amendment (Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S.252), have
been distinctly held not to be privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United States guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment against abridgment by the States, and in effect
the same decision was made in respect of the guarantee against
prosecution, except by indictment of a grand jury, contained
in the Fifth Amendment (Hurtadov. California, 110 U. S.516),

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and in respect of the right to be confronted with witnesses,
contained in the Sixth Amendment. West v. Louisiana, 194
U. S. 258. In Maxwell v. Dow, supra, where the plaintiff in
error had been convicted in a state court of a felony upon an
information, and by a jury of eight persons, it was held that the
indictment; made indispensable by the Fifth Amendment,
and the trial by jury guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment,
were not privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States, as those words were used in the Fourteenth Amendment. The discussion in that case ought not to be repeated.
All the arguments for the other view. were considered and
answered, the authorities were examined and analyzed, and
the decision rested upon the ground that this clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment did not forbid the States to abridge
the personal rights enumerated in the first eight Amendments,
because those rights were not within the meaning of the clause
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States.'
If it be possible to render the principle which governed the
decision more clear, it is done so by the-dissent of Mr. Justice
Harlan. We conclude, therefore, that the exemption from
compulsory self-incrimination is not a privilege or immunity
of National citizenship guaranteed by this clause of the Fourteenth Amendment against abridgment by the States.
The defendants, however, do not stop here. They appeal
to another clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and insist
that the self-incrimination, which they allege the instruction
to the jury compelled, was a denial of due process of law.
This contention requires separate consideration, for it is possible that some of the personal rights safeguarded by the first
eight Amendments against National action may also be safeguarded against state action, because a denial of them would
be a denial of due process of law. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. If this is :so, it is
not because those rights are enumerated in the first eight
Amendments, but because they are of such a nature that they
are included in the conception of due process of law. Few

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

phrases of the law are so elusive of exact apprehension as this.
Doubtless the difficulties of ascertaining its connotation have
been increased in American jurisprudence, where it has been
embodied in constitutions and put to new uses as a limit on
legislative power. This court has always declined to give
a tomprehensive definition of it, and has preferred that its
full meaning should be gradually ascertained by the process
of inclusion and exclusion in the course of the decisions
of cases as they arise. There are certain general principles
well settled, however, which narrow the field of discussion and
may serve as helps to correct-conclusions. These principles
grow out of the proposition universally accepted by American
courts on the authority of Coke, that the words "due process
of law" are equivalent in meafiing to the words "law of the
land," contained in that chapter of Magna Carta, which provides that "no freeman shall be taken, or imprisoned, or disseised, or outlawed, or exiled, or any wise destroyed; nor shall
we go upon him, nor send upon him, but by the lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land." Murray v.
Hoboken Land Cqi,, 18 How. 272; *Davidsonv. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 97; Jones v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 329; Cooley, Const.
Lim. (7th ed.), 500; McGehee, Due Process of Law, 16. From
the consideration of the meaning of the words in the light of
their historical origin this court has drawn the following conclusions:
First. What is due process of law may be ascertained by an
examination of those -settled usages and: modes of proceedings
existing in the common and statute law of England before the
emigration of our ancestors, and shown not to have been unsuited to their ciViL and political condition by having been
acted on by them after the seitlement of this country. This
test was adopted by the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Curtis, in Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How. 272, 280
(approved in Hallinger v. Davis, 446 U. S. 314, 320; Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. p66, 390, but see Lowe v. Kansas, 163
U. S. 81, 85). Of course, the part of the Constitution then

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before the court was the Fifth Amendment. If any different
meaning of the same words, as they are used in the Fourteenth
Amendment, can be conceived, none has yet appeared in
judicial decision. "A process of law," said Mr. Justice Matthews, commentihg on this statement of Mr. Justice Curtis,
"which is not otherwise forbidden, must be taken to be due
process of law, if it can show the sanction of settled usage
both in England and this country." Hurtado v. California,
110 U. S. 516, 528.
Second. It does not follow, however, that a procedure
settled in English law at the time of the emigration, and
brought to this country and practiced by our ancestors, is an
essential element of due process of law. If that were so the
procedure of the first half of the seventeenth century would
be fastened upon the American jurisprudence like a straightjacket, only to be unloosed by constitutional amendment.
That, said Mr. Justice Matthews, in the same case, p. 529,
"would be to deny every quality of the law but its age, and
to render it incapable of progress or improvement." Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 388; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.
172, 175.
Third. But, consistently with the requirements of due
process, no change in. ancient procedure can be made which
disregards those fundamental principles, to be ascertained
from time to time by judicial action, which have relation to
process of law and protect the citizen in his private right, and
guard him against the arbitrary action of government. This
idea has been many times expressed in differing words by this
court, and it seems well to cite some expressions of it. The
words due process of law "were intended to secure the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the powers of government, unrestrained by the established principles of private
rights and distributive justice." Bank of Columbia v. Okely, 4
Wh. 235, 244 (approved in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S..
516, 527; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 468; Scott v.. McNeal,
154 U. S. 34, 45). "This court has never attempted to define

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

with precision the words 'due process of law.'

211 U. S.

It is

sufficient to say that there are certain immutable principles
of justice which inhere in the very idea of free government
which no member of the Union may disregard." Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389. "The same words refer to that
law of the land in each State, which derives its authority from
the inherent and reserved powers of the State, exerted within
the limits of those fundamental principles of liberty and justice
which lie at the base of all our civil and political institutions."
In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448. "The limit of the full control which the State has in the proceedings of its courts, both
in civil and criminal cases, is subject only to the qualification
that such procedure must not work a denial of fundamental
rights or conflict with specific and applicable provisions of
the Federal Constitution." West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258,
263.
The question under consideration may first be tested by
the application of these settled. doctrines of this court. If
the statement of Mr. Justice Curtis, as elucidated in Hurtado
v. California, is to be taken literally, that alone might almost
be decisive. For nothing is more certain, in point of historical
fact, than that the practice of compulsory self-incrimination
in the courts and elsewhere existed for four hundred years
after the granting of Magna Carta, continued throughout
the reign of Charles I (though then beginning to be seriously
questioned), gained at least some foothold among the early
colonists of this country, and was not entirely omitted at trials
in England until the eighteenth century. Wigmore on Evidence, § 2250 (see for the ,Colonies, note 108); Hallam's Constitutional History of England, ch. VIII, 2 Widdleton's American ed., 37. (describing the criminal jurisdiction of the Court
of Star Chamber); Bentham's Rationale of 'Judicial Evidence,
book IX,;ch. III, § IV.
I Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, in his studies of the reports
of English trials for crime, has thrown much light on the
existence of the practice of questioning persons' accused of

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

crime and its gradual decay. He considers, first, a group of
trials which occurred between 1554 and 1637. Speaking of
the trial before the jury, he says:
. "The prisoner, in nearly every instance, asked, as a favor,
that he might not be overpowered by the eloquence of counsel
denouncing him in a set speech, but, in consideration of the
weakness of his memory, might be allowed to answer separately
to the different matters which might be alleged against him.
This was usually granted, and the result was that the trial
became a series of excited altercations between the prisoner
and the different tounsel opposed to him. Every statement
of counsel operated as a question to the prisoner, and indeed
they were constantly thrown into the form of questions, the
prisoner either admitting or denying or explaining what was
alleged against him. The result was that, during the period
in question, the examination of the prisoner, which is at
present scrupulously and I think even pedantically avoided,
was the very essence of the trial, and his answers regulated
the production of the evidence; the whole trial, in fact, was a
long argument between the prisoner and counsel for the
Crown, in which they questioned each other and grappled
with each other's arguments with the utmost eagerness and
closeness of reasoning." Stephen, 1 Hist.. of the Crim. Law,
325.
This description of the questioning of the accused and the
meeting of contending arguments finds curious confirmation
in the report of the trial, in 1637, of Ann Hutchinson (which
resulted in banishment), for holding and encouraging certain
theological views which were not approved by the majority
of the early Massachusetts rulers. 1 Hart's American History
Told by Contemporaries, 382. The trial was presided over
and the examination very largely conducted by Governor Winthrop, who had been for some years before his emigration an
active lawyer and admitted to the Inner Temple. An examination of the, report of this trial will show that he was not aware
of any privilege against self-incrimination or conscious of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

any duty to respect it. Stephen says of the trials between
1640 and 1660 (Ib., 358): "In some cases the prisoner was
questioned, but never to any greater extent than that which
it is practically impossible to avoid when a man has to defend
himself without counsel. When so questioned the prisoners
usually refused to answer." IHe further says (Ib., 440): "Soon
after the Revolution of 168A the practice of questioning the
prisoner died out." But committing magistrates were authorized to take the examination of persons suspected, which
if not under oath, was admissible' against him on his trial,
until by the 11 & 12 Vict., ch. 2,the prisoner was given the
option whether he would speak, and warned that what he
said might be used agaillst him. But even now there seems
to be a very well-recognized and ifnportant exception in English law to the rule that no person can be compelled to furnish evidence against himself. A practice in bankruptcy has
existed from ancient times, and still exists, which would not
be constitutionally possible under our national bankruptcy
law or under the insolvency lqw of any State whose constitution contains the customary prohibition of compulsory selfincrimination. The Bankruptcy Act of 1 James I, ch. 15,
§ 7 (1603), authorized the commissioners of bankruptcy to
compel, by commitment if necessary, the bankrupt to submit
to an examination touching his estate and dealings. The
provision was continued in the subsequent acts, and in 1820,
in Ex parte Cossens, Buck, Bkcy. Cases, 531, 540, Lord Eldon,
in the course of a discussion of the right to examine a bankrupt, held that he could be.compelled t9xlisclose his violations
of law in respect of his trade and estate, and, while recognizing the general principle of English law, that no one could be
compelled to incriminate himself, said: "I have always understood the proposition to admit of a qlualification with respect
to the jurisdiction in bankruptcy." The act of 6 Geo. IV,
ch. 16, § 36 (1825), authorized the compulsory examination of
the bankrupt "touching all matters relating either to his
trade, dealings, or estate, or which may tend to disclose any

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

secret grant, conveyance or concealment of his lands." The
act of 12 & 13 Vict., ch. 106, § 117 (1849), contained the same
provision. Construing these acts,' it was held that the bankrupt must answer, though his answer might furnish evidence
of' his crime, and even if an indictment were pending against
him, and that the evidence thus compelled was admissible
on his trial for crime. Re Heath, 2 D. & Ch. 214; Re Smith, 2
D. & Ch. 230, 235; Reg. v. Scott, Dearsley & Bell, 47; Reg. v.
Cross, 7 Cox C. C. 226; Reg. v. Widdop, L. R. 2 C. C. R. 3.
The act of 46 & 47 Vict., ch. 52, § 17 (1883), which we understand to be (with some amendment not material here) the
present law, passed after the decisions cited, expressly provided that the examination shall be taken in writing and signed
by the debtor, "and may thereafter be used in evidence against
him." It has since been held that other evidence of his testimony than that written and signed by him may be used.
Reg. v. Erdheim (1896), 2 Q. B. D. 260, and see Rex v. Pike
(1902), 1 K. B. 552.1 It is to be observed that not until 1883
did Parliament, which has an unlimited legislative power,
expressly provide that the evidence compelled from the bankrupt could be used in proof of an indictment against him.
The rule had been previously firmly established by judicial
decisions upon statutes simply authorizing -a compulsory examination. If the rule had been thought to be in conflict
with "the law of the land" of Magna Cartai "a sacred text,.
the nearest approach to an irrepealable, 'fundamental statute'
that England has ever had," 1 Pollock & Maitland, 152, it is
inconceivable that such a consideration would not have received some attention from counsel and judges. We think it
is manifest, from this review of the origin, growth, extent and
limits of the /exemption from compulsory self-incrimination
in the English law, that it is not regarded as a part of the law
of the land of Magna Carta or the due process of law, which
In certain offenses, which may be generally described as embezzlements, the evidence compelled from a bankrupt cannot be used against
him. 24 & 25 Vict., ch. 96, § 85; 53 & 54 Vict., ch. 71, § 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 190M.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

has been deemed an equivalent expression, but, on the contrary, is regarded as spparate from and independent of due
process. It came into existence not as an essential part of
due process, but as a wise and beneficent rule of evidence
developed in the course of judicial decision. This is a potent
argument when it is remembered that the phrase was borrowed from English law and that to that law we must look
at least for its primary meaning.
But without repudiating or questioning the test proposed
by Mr. Justice Curtis for the court, or rejecting the inference
drawn from English law, we prefer to rest our' decision on
broader grounds, and inquire whether 'the exemption from
self-incrimination is of such a nature that it must be included
in the conception of due process. Is it a fundamental principle
of liberty and justice which inheres in the very idea of free
government and is the inalienable right of a citizen of such
a government? If it is, and if it is of a nature that pertains to
process of law, this court has declared it to be essential to due
process of law. In approaching such a question it must not be
forgotten that in a free representative governmrent nothing is
more fundamental than the right of the people through their
appointed servants to govern themselves in -accordance with
their own will, except so far as they have restrained themselves
by constitutional limits specifically established, and that in our
peculiar dual form of government nothing is more fundamental
than the full power of the State to order its own affairs and govern its own people, except so far as the Federal Constitution
expressly or by fair implication has withdrawn that power.
The power of the people of the States to make and alter their
laws at pleasure is the greatest security for liberty and justice,
this court has said in Hurtado v. California, supra. We are not
invested with the jurisdiction to pass upon the expediency,
wisdom or justice of the laws of the States as declared by their
courts, but only to determine their conformity With the Federal Constitution and the paramount laws enacted pursuant
to it. Under the guise of interpreting the Constitution we must

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

take care that we do not import into the discussion our own
personal views of what would be wise, just and fitting rules of
government to be adopted by a free people and confound
them with constitutional limitations. The question before us
is'the meaning of a constitutional provision which forbids the
States to deny to any person due process of law. In the decision of this question we have the authority to take into account only those fundamental rights which are expressed in that
provision, not the rights fundamental in citizenship, state or
National, for they are secured otherwise, but the rights fundamental in due process, and therefore an essential part of it.
We have to consider whether the right is so fundamental in
due process that a refusal of the right is a denial of due process. One aid to the solution of the question is to inquire how
the right was rated during the time when the meaning of due
process was in a formative state and before it was incorporated
in American constitutional law. Did those who then were
formulating and insisting upon the rights of.the people entertain the view that the right was soi fundamental that there
could be no due process Without it? It has already appeared
that, prior to the formation of the American Constitutions, in
which the exemption from compulsory self-incrimination was
specifically secured, separately, independently, and side by side
with the requirement of due process, the doctrine was formed,
as other dbctrines of the law of evidence have been formed,
by the course of decision in the courts covering a long period
of time. Searching further, we find nothing to show that it
was then thought to be other than a just and useful principle
of law. None of the great instruments in which we are accustomed to look for the declaration of the fundamental rights
made reference to it. The privilege was not dreamed of for
hundreds of years after Magna Carta (1215), and could not
have been implied in the "law of the land-" there secured.
The Petition of Right (1629),- though it insists upon the right
secured by Magna Carta to be condemned only by the law of
the land, and sets forth by way of grievance divers violations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

it, is silent upon the practice of compulsory self-incrimination,
though it was then a matter of common occurrence in all the
courts of the realm. The Bill of Rights of the first year of the
reign of William and Mary (1689) is likewise silent, though the
practice of questioning the prisoner at his trial had not then
ceased. The negative argument which arises out of the omission of all reference to any exemption from compulsory selfincrimination in these three great declarations of English
liberty (though it is not supposed to amount to a demonstration) is supported by the positive argument that the English
Courts and Parliaments, as we have seen, have dealt with the
exemption as they would have dealt with any other rule of
evidence,, apparently without a thought that the question
was affected by the law of the land of Magna Carta, or the due
process of law which is its equivalent.
We pass by the meager records of the early colonial time,
so far as they have come to our attention, as affording light
too uncertain for guidance. See Wigmore, § 2250, note 108;
2 Hennings St. at Large, 422 (Va., 1677); 1 Winthrop's History
of New England, 47, Provincial Act, 4 W. & M. Ancient Charters, Massachusetts, 214. Though it is worthy of note that
neither the declaration of rights-o-fthe Stamp Act Congress
(1765) nor the declaration of rights of the Continental Congress (1774) nor the ordinance for the government of the
Northwestern Territory included the privilege in their enumeration of fundamental rights.
... But the history of the incorrioration of the privilege in an

amendment to the National Constitution is full of significance
in this connection. Five States, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Georgia and -Connecticut, ratified the Constitution
without proposing amendments. Massachusetts then followed
with a ratification, accompanied by a recommendation of nine
amendments, none of which referred to the privilege; Maryland
with a ratification without proposing amendments; South Carolina with a ratification accorranied by a recommendation
of:four amendments, none of which referred to the privilege,

. TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

and New Hampshire with a ratification accompanied by a
recommendation of twelve amendments, none of which referred to the.privilege. The nine States requisite to put the
Constitution -in operation ratified it without a suggestion of
incorporating this privilege. Virginia was the tenth State to
ratify, proposing, by separate resolution, an elaborate Bill
of Rights under twenty heads, and in addition twenty amendments to the body of the Constitution. Among the rights
enumerated a. "essential and inalienable" is that no man
"can be compelled to give evidence against himself," and "no
freeman ought to be deprived of his life, liberty or property
but by the law of the land." New York ratified with a proposal of numerous amendments and a declaration of rights
which the convention declared could not be violated and were
consistent with the Constitution. One of these rights was that
"No: person ought to be taken, imprisoned or deprived of his
freehold, or be exiled or deprived of his privileges, franchises,
life, liberty or property but by due process of law;" and another
was that "in all criminal prosecutions the accused .
should not be compelled to give evidence against himself."
North Carolina and Rhode Island were the last to ratify,
each proposing a large number of amendments, including the
provision that no roan "can be compelled to give evidence
against himself;" and North Carolina, that "no freeman
ought to be

.

.

.

deprived of his life, liberty or property

but by the law of the land;" and Rhode Island, that "no
freeman ought to be

.

.

.

deprived of his life, liberty

or property but by the trial by jury, or by the law of the land."
Thus it appears that four only of the thirteen original States
insisted upon incorporating the privilege in the Constitution,
and they separately and simultaneously with the requirement
of due process of law, and that three States proposing amendments were silent upon this subject. It is worthy of note that
two of these four States did not incorporate the privilege in
their own- constitutions, where it would have had 'a much
wider field of usefulness, until many years after. New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1908
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

in 1821 and Rhode Island in 1842 (its first constitution). This
survey does not tend to show that it was then in this country
the universal or even general belief that the privilege ranked
among the fundamental and inalienable rights of mankind;
and what is more important here, it affirmatively shows that
the privilege was not conceived to be inherent in due process
of law, but on the other hand a right separate, independent
and outside of due process. Congress, in submitting the
amendments to the several States, treated the two rights as
exclusive of each other. Such also has been the view of the
States in framing their own constitutions, for in every, case,
except in New Jersey and Iowa, where the due process clause
or its equivalent is included, it has been thought necessary
to include separately the privilege clause. Nor have we been
ieferred to any decision of a state court save one (State v.
HIeight, 117 Iowa, 650), where the exemption has beenheld to
be required by due process of law. The inference is irresistible
that it has been the opinion of constitution makers that the
privilege, if fundamental in any sense, is not fundamental in
due process of law, nor an essential part of it. We believe that
this opinion is proved to have been correct by every historical
test by which the meaning of the phrase can be tried.
The decisions of this court, though they are silent on the
precise question before us, ought to be' searched to discover
if they present any analogies which are helpful in its decision.
The essential elements of due process of law, already established by them, are singularly few; though of wide application
and/deep significance. We are not here concerned with the
effect of due process in restraining substantive laws, as, for example, that which forbids the taking of private property for
public use without compensation. We need notice now only
those cases which deal with the principles which must be observed in the trial of criminal and civil causes. Due process
requires that the court which assumes to determine the rights
of parties shall have jurisdiction, Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714,
733; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Old Wayne Life Association

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, and that there shall be notice and
opportunity for hearing given the parties, Hovey v. Elliott, 167
U. S. 409; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398; and see Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 373. Subject to. these two fundamental
conditions, which seem to be universally prescribed in all
systems of law established by civilized countries, this court
has up to this time sustained all state laws, statutory or judicially declared, regulating procedure, evidence and methods
of trial, and held them to be consistent withdue process of law:
Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Re Converse, 137 U. S. 624;
Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S.
462; Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314; McNulty v. California,
149 U. S. 645; McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684; Iowa Central
v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Lowe v. Kansas, 163 U. S. 81; Allen v.
Georgia, 166 U. S. 138; Hodgson v: Vermont, 168 U. S. 262;
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Bolln v. Nebraska, 176
U. S. 83; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Simon v. Craft, 182
U. S. 427; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258; Marvin v. Trout,
199 U. S. 212;. Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425; Howard v. Kentucky, 200 U. S. 164; Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638; Felts v.
Murphy, 201 U. S. 123.
Among the most notable of these decisions- are those sustaining the denial of jury trial both in civil and criminal cases,
the substitution of informations for indictments by a grand
jury, the enactment that the possession of policy slips raises a
presumption of illegality, and the admission of the deposition
of an absent witness in a criminal case. The cases proceed
upon the theory that, given a court of justice which has jurisdiction and acts, not arbitrarily but in conformity with a
general law, upon evidence, and after inquiry made with notice to the parties, affected and opportunity to be heard, then
all the requirements of due process, so far as it relates to procedure in court and methods of trial and character and effect of evidence, are complied with. Thus it was said in Iowa
Central v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 393: "But it is clear that the
Fourteenth Amendment in no way undertakes to control the

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

power of the State to determine by what process legal rights
may be asserted or legal obligations be enforced, provided
'the method of procedure adopted gives reasonable notice and.
affords fair opportunity to be heard before the issues are decided;" and in Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v.
Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230, 236: "It is no longer open to contention
that the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States does not control mere
* forms of procedure in state courts or regulate practice therein.
All its requirements are complied with, provided in the proceedings which are claimed not to have been due process of law
the person condemned has had sufficient notice and adequate
opportunity has been afforded him to defend;" and in Hooker
v. Los Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, 318: "The Fourteenth Amendment does not control the power of a State to determine the
form of procedure by which legal rights may be ascertained,
if the method adopted gives reasonable notice and affords a
fair opportunity to be heard;" and in Rogers v. Peck, 199
U. S. 435: "Due process of law, guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, does not require the State to adopt a particular
form of procedure, so long as it appears that the accused has
had sufficient notice of the accusation and an adequate opportunity to defend himself in -the prosecution." It is impossible to reconcile the reasoning of these cases and the rule
which governed their decision with the theory that an exemption:from compulsory self-incrimination is included in the
conception of due process of law. Indeed the reasoning for
including.indictment by a grand jury and trial by a petit jury
in that conception, which has been rejected by this court in
Hurtado v. California and. Maxwell v. Dow, was historically
and in principle much stronger. Clearly appreciating this,
Mr. Justice Harlan, in his dissent in each of these cases, pointed
out that the inexorable logic of the reasoning of the court was
to allow the States, so far as the Federal Constitution was concerned, to compel any person to be a witness against himself. In
Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S.. 22, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking

TWININO v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the whole court, said, in effect, that the Fourteenth Amendment would not prevent a State from adopting or continuing
the civil law instead of the common law. This dictum has been
approved and made an essential part of the reasoning of the
decision in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 387, 389, and Maxwell
v. Dow, 176 U. S.598. The statement excludes the possibility
that the privilege is essential to due process, for it hardly need
be said that the interrogation of the accused, at his trial is the
practice in the civil law.
Even if the historical meaning of due process of law and the
decisions of this court did not exclude the privilege from it,
it would be going far to rate it as an immutable principle of
justice which is the inalienable possession of every citizen of
a free government. Salutary as the principle may seem to the
great majority, it cannot be ranked with the right to hearing
before condemnation, the immunity from arbitrary power not
acting by general laws, and the inviolability of private property.
The wisdom of the exemption has never been universally assented to since the days of Bentham; many doubt *itto-day,
and it is best defended-not as an unchangeable principle of
universal justice but as a law proved by experience to be expedient. See Wigmore, §2251. It has no place in the jurisprudence of civilized and free countries outside the domain
of the common law, and it is nowhere observed among our own
people in the search for truth outside the administration of the
law. It should, must and will be rigidly observed where it is
secured by specific .constitutional safeguards, but there is
nothing in it which gives it a sanctity above and before constitutions themselves. Much might be said in favor of the
view that the privilege was guaranteed against state impair-,
ment as a privilege and immunity of National citizenship,
but, as has been shown, the decisions of this court have foreclosed that view. There seems to be no reason whatever,
however, for straining the meaning of due process of law to
include this privilege within it, because, perhaps, we may
think it of great value. The States had guarded the privilege
VOL. cCx i-S

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

to the satisfaction of their own people up to the adoption of
the Fourteenth Amendment. No reason is perceived why they
cannot continue to do so. The power of their people ought not
to be fettered, their sense of responsibility lessened, and their
capacity for sober and restrained self-government weakened
by forced construction of the Federal Constitution. If the
people of New Jersey are not content.with the law as declared
in repeated decisions of their courts, the remedy is in their
own hands. They may, if they choose, alter it by legislation,
as the people of Maine did when the courts'of that State made
the same ruling. State v. Bartlett, 55 Maine, 200; State v.
Lawrence, 57 Maine, 574; State v. Cleaves, 59 Maine, 298; State
v. Banks, 78 Maine, 490, 492; Rev. Stat. ch. 135, § 19.
We have assumed only for the purpose of discussion that
what was done in the case at bar was an infringement of the
privilege against self-incrimination. We do not intend, however, to lend any countenance to the truth of that assumption.
The courts of New Jersey, in adopting the rule of law which
is complained of here, have deemed it consistent with the
privilege itself and not a denial of it. The reasoning by which
this view is supported will be found in the cases cited from
New Jersey and Maine, and see Reg. v. Rhodes (1899), 1 Q. B.
77; Ex pare Kops (1894), A. C. 650. The authorities upon the
question are in conflict. We do not pass upon the conflict, because, for the reasons given, we think that the exemption from
compulsory self-incrimination in the courts of the States is not
secured by any part of the Federal Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

I feel constrained by a sense of duty to express my nonconcurrence in the action of the court in this present case.
Twining and Cornell were indicted for a criminal offense
in a New Jersey court and having been found guilty by a jury
were sentenced, respectively, to imprisonment for six and

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

four years. The, judgment of conviction was affirmed, first
in the Supreme Court of the State, afterwards in the Court
of Errors and Appeals. The case was brought here for review and the accused assigned for error that the mode of proceeding during the trial was such as to deny them a right
secured by the Constitution of the United States, namely,
the right of an accused not to be compelled to testify against
himself.
Upon this point the court, in the opinion just delivered,
says: "We have assumed, only for the purpose of discussion,
that what was done in the case at bar was an infringement
of the privilege against self-incrimination." But the court
takes care to. add immediately: "We do not intend, however,
to lend any countenance to the truth of that assumption. The
courts of New Jersey, in adopting the rule of law which is
complained of here, have deemed it consistent with. the privilege itself."
It seems to me that the first inquiry on this writ of error
should have been whether, upon the record before us, that
which was actually done in the trial court amounted, in law,
to a violation of that privilege. If the court was not prepared
to hold, upon the record before it, that the privilege of immunity frojn self-incrimination had been actually violated,
then, I submit, it ought not to have gone further and held it
to be competent for a State, despite the granting of immunity
from self-incrimination by the Federal Constitution, to compel
one accused of crime to be a witness against himself. Whether
a State is forbidden by the Constitution of the United States
to violate the principle of immunity from self-incrimination
is a question which it is clearly unnecessary to decide now,
unless what was, in fact, done at the trial was inconsistent
with that immunity. But, although exprebsly declaring that
it will not lend .any countenance to the truth of the amoslunttion
that the proceedings below were in disregard of the niztxiMi,
Nemo tenetur seipsum accusare, and w'ithout saying whether
there was, in fact, any sul)tanti:d violation of the privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

of immunity from self-incrimination, the court, for the purpose
only Of discussion, has entered upon the academic inquiry
whether a State may, without violating the Constitution of
the United States, compel one accused of crime to be a witness against himself-a question of vast moment, one of such
transcendent importance that a court ought not to decide it
unless the record before it requires that course to be adopted.
It is entirely consistent with the opinion just delivered that
the court thinks that what is complained of as having been
done at the trial of the accused was not., in law, an infringement of the privilege of immunity from self-incrimination.
Yet, as stated, the court, in its wisdom, has forborne to say
whether, in its judgment, that privilege was, in fact, violated
in the state court, but simply, for the purpose of discussion,
has proceeded on the assumption that the privilege was disregarded at the trial.
As a reason why it takes up first the question of the power
of a State, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, to
compel self-incrimination, the court says that if the right here
asserted is not a Federal right that is an end of the case, and
it must not go further. It would, I submit, have been more
appropriate to say that if no ground whatever existed, under
the facts disclosed by the record, to contend that a Federal
right had been violated, this court wouict be without authority
to go further and express its opinion on an abstract question
relating to the powers of the State under the Constitution.
What I have suggested as to the proper course of procedure
in this court is supported by our action in Shoener v. Pennsylvania, 207 U. S.188, 195. That was a criminal case, brought
here from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania-the accused,
who was convicted, insisting that the proceeding against him
in the state court was in violation of the clause of the Federal
Constitution declaring that no person shall be subject for the
same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.
Upon looking into the record of that case we found that the
accused had not been, previously, put in legal jeopardy for

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

the same' offense. We went no further, but dismissed the writ
of error, declining to consider the grave constittutional question pressed upon ourattention, namely, whether the jeopardy
clause of the Federal Constitution operated as a restraint upon
the States in the execution of their criminal laws. But as a
different course has been pursued in this case, I must of necessity consider the sufficiency of the grounds upon which the
court bases its present judgment of affirmance.
The court, in its consideration of the relative rights of the
United States apd of the several States, holds, in this case,
that, without violating the Constitution of the United States,
a State can compel a person accused of crime to testify against
himself. In my judgment, immunity from self-incrimination
is protected against hostile state action, not only by that clause
in the Fourteenth Amendment declaring that "no State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States," but by the clause,
in the same Amendment, "nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law."
No argument is needed to support the proposition that, whether
manifested by statute or by the final judgment of a court,
state action if liable to the objection that it abridges the privileges or immunities of National citizenship must also be regarded as wanting in the due process of law enjoined by the
Fourteenth Amendment, when such state action substantially
affects life, liberty or property.
At the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment
immunity from self-incrimination was one of the privileges
or immunities belonging to citizens, for the reason that the
Fifth Amendment, speaking in the name of the People of the
United States, had declared, in terms, that no person "shall
be compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against
himself; nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law." That Amendment, it was long ago decided, operated as a restriction on the exercise of powers by
the United States or by Federal tribunals and agencies, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

did not impose any restraint upon a State or upon a state
tribunal or agency. The original Amendments of the Constitution had their origin, as all know, in the belief of many patriotic
statesmen in the States then composing the Union, that under
the Constitution, as originally submitted to the People for adoption or rejection, the National Government might disregard
the fundamental principles of Anglo-American liberty for the
maintenance of which our fathers took up arms against the
mother country.
What, let me inqui 'e, must then have been regarded as
principles that were fundamental in the liberty of the citizen?
Every student of English history will agree that long before
the adoption of the Constitution of the United States certain
principles affecting the life and liberty of the subject had
become firmly established in the jurisprudence of England and
were deemed vital to the safety of freemen, and that among
those principles was. the one that no person accused of crime
could be compelled to be a witness against himself. It is true
!that at one time in England the practice of "questioning the
prisoner" was enforced in Star Chamber proceedings. But
we have the authority of Sir James Fitzjames Stephen, in his
History of the Criminal Law of England, for saying that soon
after the Revolution of 1688 the practice of questioning "the
prisoner died out. Vol. 1, p. 440. The'liberties of the English
people had then been placed on a firmer foundation. Personal
liberty was thenceforward, jealously guarded. Certain it is,
that when the present Government of the United States was
established it was the belief of all liberty-loving men in America
that real, genuine freedom could not exist in any country that
recbgnized the power of government to compel persons accused
of crime to be witnesses against themselves. And it is not
too much to say that the wise men who laid the foundations
of our constitutional government would have stood aghast
at the suggestion that immunity from self-incrimination was
not among the essential, fundamental principles of English
law.

An abl, writer on English and American constitutional

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

law has recently well said: "When the first Continental Congress of 1774 claimed to be entitled to the benefit, not only of
the common law of England, but of such of the English statutes as existed at the time of the colonization, and which
they had by experience found to be applicable to their several local and other circumstances, they simply declared the
basic principle of English law that English subjects going to a
new and uninhabited country carry with them, as their birthright, the laws of England existing when the colonization takes
place.

.

.

.

English law, public and private, continued in

force in all the States that became sovereign in 1776, each State
declaring for itself the date from which it would recognize it.")
Taylor, The Science of Jurisprudence, 436, 437. It is indisputably established that, despite differences in forms of government, the people in the colonies were a unit as to certain
leading principles, among which was the principle that the
people were entitled to "enjoy the rights and privileges of
British-born subjects and the benefit of the common laws of
England;" 1 Story, § 163, and that (to use the words of the
Continental Congress of 1774) "by emigration to the colonies,
the people by no means forfeited, surrendered or lost any of
those rights, but that they were then, and their descendants
are now, entitled to the exercise and enjoyment of them as
their local and other circumstances enable them to exercise
and enjoy."
Can there be any doubt that at the opening of the War of
Independence the people of the colonies claimed as one of their
birthrights the privilege of immunity from self-incrimination?
This question can be answered in but one way. If at the
beginning of the Revolutionary War any lawyer had claimed
that one accused of crime, could lawfully be compelled to
testify against himself, lie would have been laughed at by
his brethren of the bar, both in England and America. In
accordance with this universal view as to the rights of freemen, Virginia, in its Convention of May, 1776-in advance,
be it,
observed, of the Declaration of Independence-made a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
J., dissenting.

HARLiN,

211 U. S.

Declaration (drawn entirely by the celebrated George Mason)
which set forth certain rights as pertaining to the people of
that State and to their posterity "as the basis and foundation
of government." Among those rights (that famous Declaration distinctly announced) was the right of a person not to be
compelled to give evidence against himself. , Precisely the
same declaration was made in Pennsylvania by its Convention
assembled at Philadelphia on the fifteenth of July, 1776. Vermont, by its Convention of 1777, said: "Nor can he [a man
.accused of crime] be compelled to give evidence against himself," Maryland in 1776 declared that "no man ought to be
compelled to give evidence against himself, in a court of criminal law." Massachusetts, in its constitution of 1780, provided
that "no subject shall be

.

.

.

compelled to accuse, or

to furnish evidence against himself." The same provision was
made by New Hampshire in its constitution of 1784. And
North Carolina as early as 1776 recognized the privilege of
immunity from self-incrimination by declaring, in its constitution, that a man "shall not be compelled to give evidence
against himself." These explicit declarations in the constitutions of leading colonies, before the submission of the National Constitution to the People for adoption or rejection,
caused patriotic men, whose fidelity to American liberty no one
doubted, to protest that that instrument was defective in that
it furnished no express guaranty against the violation by the
National Government of th personal rights that inhered in
liberty. Nothing is made clearer by the history of our country
than that the Constitution would not have been accepted by
the requisite number of States, but for the understanding, on
all sides, that it should be promptly amended so as to meet
this objection. So, when the first Congress met, there was
entire unanimity among statesmen of that day as to the necessity and wisdom of having a National Bill of Rights which
would, beyond all question, secure against Federal encroachment all the rights, privileges and immunities which, everywhere and by everybody in America, were then recognized as

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

fundamental in Anglo-American liberty. Hence the prompt
incorporation into the Supreme Law of the Land of the original
amendments. By the Fifth Amendment, as already stated,
it was expressly declared that no one should be compelled in
a criminal case to be a witness against himself. Those Amendments being adopted by the, Nation, the People no longer
feared that the United States or any Federal agency could
exert power that was inconsistent with the fundamental rights
recognized in those Amendments. It is to be observed that
the Amendments introduced no principle not already familiar
to liberty-loving people. They only put in the form of constitutional sanction, as barriers against oppression, the principles which the people of the colonies, with entire unanimity,
deemed vital to their safety and freedom.
Still more. At the close of the late Civil War, which had
seriously disturbed the foundations of our governmental system, the question arose whether provision should not be made
by constitutional amendments to secure against attack by
the States the rights, privileges and immunities which, by the
original Amendments, had been placed beyond the power of.
the United States or any Federal agency to impair or destroy.
Those rights, privileges and immunities had not. then, in terms,
been guarded by the National Constitution against impairment or destruction by the States, although, before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, every State, without, perhaps, an exception, had, in some form, recognized, as part
of its fundamental law, most, if not all, the rights and immunities mentioned in the original Amendments, among them
immunity from self-incrimination. This is made clear by the
opinion of the court in the present case. The court says:
"The exemption from testimonial compulsion, that is, from
disclosure as a witness of evidence against one's self, forced by
any form of legal process, is universal in American law, though
there may be a difference as to its exact scope and limits.
At the time of the formation of the Union, the principle that
no person could be compelled to be a witness against himself

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U.S.

had become embodied in the common law and distinguished
it from all other systems of jurisprudence. It was generally
regarded then, as now, as a privilege of great value, a protection
to the innocent though a shelter to the guilty, and a safeguard
against heedless, unfounded or tyrannical prosecutions." Such
was the situation, the coirt concedes, at the time the Fourteenth Amendment was prepared and adopted. That Amendment declared that all persons born or naturalized in the United
States and subject to its jurisdiction are citizens of the United
States, "and of the State wherein they reside." Momentous
as this declaration was, in its political consequences, it was
not deemed sufficient for the complete protection of the essential rights of National citizenship and personal liberty. Although the Nation was restrained by existing constitutional
provisions from encroaching upon those rights, yet so far as
the Federal Constitution was concerned, the States could at,
that time have dealt with those rights upon the basis entirely
of their own constitution and laws. It was therefore deemed
necessary that the Fourteenth Amendment should, in the
name of the United States forbid, as it expressly does, any
State from making or enforcing a law that will abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law. The privileges and immunities mentioned in
the original Amendments, and universally regarded as our
-heritage of liberty from the common law, were thus secured
to every citizen of the United States and placed beyond assault by any government, Federal or state, and due process
of law, in all public proceedings affecting life, liberty or property, were enjoined equally upon the Nation and the States.
What, then, were the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States which the Fourteenth Amendment guarded
against encroachment by the States? Whatever they were,
that Amendment placed them beyond the power of any State
to abridge. And what were the rights of life and liberty which
the Amendment protected? Whatever they were, that Amend-

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

ment guarded them against any hostile state action that was
wanting in due process of law.
I will not attempt to enumerate all the privileges and immunities which at that time belonged to citizens of the United
States. But I confidently assert that among such privileges
was the privilege of immunity from self-incrimination which
the People of the United States, by adopting the Fifth Amendment, had placed beyond Federal encroachment. Can such
a view be deemed unreasonable in the face of the fact, frankly
conceded in the opinion of the court, that at common law, as
well at the time of the formation of the Union and when the
Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, immunity from selfincrimination was a privilege "universal in American law,"
was everywhere deemed "of great value, a protection to the
,innocent though a shelter to the guilty and a safeguard against
heedless, unfounded or tyrannical prosecutions"? Is it conceivable that a privilege or immunity of such a priceless character, one expressly recognized in the Supreme Law of the
Land, one thoroughly interwoven with the history of AngloAmerican liberty, was not in the mind of the country when it
declared, in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no State shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States? The Fourteenth Amendment would have been disapproved by every State in the Union if it had saved or recognized the right of a State to compel one accused of crime, in
its courts, to be a witness against himself.

We state the

matter in this way because it is common knowledge that the
compelling of a person to criminate himself shocks or ought
to shock the sense of right and justice of every one who loves
liberty. Indeed, this court has not hesitated thus to char-"
acterize the Star Chamber method of compelling an accused
to be'a witness against himself. In Boyd v. United States, 1,16
U. S.616, 631, 633, will be found some weighty observations
by Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the judgment of the court,
as to the scope and meaning of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The court, speaking by that eminent jurist, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

"Now it is elementary knowledge, that one cardinal rule of
the court of chancery is never to decree a discovery which
might tend to convict the party of a crime, or to forfeit his property. And any compulsory discovery by extorting the party's
oath, or compelling the production of his private books and
papers, to convict him of crime, or to forfeit his property, is
contrary to the principles of a free government. It is abhorrent
to the instincts of an Englishman; it is abhorrent to the instincts
of an American. It may suit the purposes of despotic power;
but it cannot abide the pure atmosphere of political liberty and
personal freedom." Again: "We have already noticed the
intimate relation between the two Amendments. They throw
great light on each other. For, the 'unreasonable searches
and seizures' condemned in the Fourth Amendment are almost
always made for the purpose of compelling a man to give evidence against himself, which in criminal cases is condemned
in the Fifth Amendment; and compelling a man 'in a criminal
case to be a witness against himself,' which is condemned in
the Fifth Amendment, throws light on the question as to what
is an 'unreasonable search and seizure' within the meaning
of the Fourth Amendment. And we have been unable to
perceive that the seizure of a man's private books and papers
to be used in evidence against him is substantially different
from compelling him to be a witness against himself." These
observations were referred to approvingly in Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S.547, 580, 581.
I am of opinion that as immunity from self-incrimination
was recognized in the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution
and placed beyond violation by any Federal agency, it should
be deemed one of the immunities of citizens of the United
States which the Fourteenth Amendment in express terms
forbids any State from abridging-as much so, for instance,
as the right of free speech (Amdt. II), or the exemption from
cruel or unusual punishments (Amdt. VIII), or the exemption
from being put twice iin jeopardy of life or limb for the same
offense (Amdt. V), or the exemption from .unreasonable searches

TWINING v. NEW JERSEY.
211 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

and-seizures of one's person, house, papers or effects (Amdt. IV).
Even if I were anxious or willing to cripple the operation of
the Fourteenth Amendment by strained or narrow interpretations, I should feel obliged to hold that when that Amendment was adopted all these last-mentioned exemptions were
among the immunities belonging to citizens of the United
States, which, after the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, no State could impair or destroy. But, as I read the
opinion of the court, it will follow from the general principles
underlying it, or from the reasoning pursued therein, that the
Fourteenth Amendment would be no obstacle whatever in
the way of a state law or practice under which, for instance,
cruel or unusual punishments (such as the thumb screw, or
the rack or burning at the stake) might be inflicted. So of a
state law which infringed the right of free speech, or authorized
unreasonable searches or seizures of persons, their houses,
papers or effects, or a state law under which one accused of
crime could be put in jeopardy twice or oftener, at the pleasure
of the prosecution, for the same offense.
It is my opinion also that the right to immunity from selfincrimination cannot be taken away by any State consistently
with the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment that relates
to the deprivation by the State of life or liberty without due
process of law. This view is supported by what Mr. Justice Miller said for the court in Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97, 101, 102. That great judge, delivering the opinion in that
case, said: "The prohibition against depriving the citizen or
subject of his life, liberty, or property without due process
of law, is not new in the constitutional history of the English
race. It is not new in the constitutional history of this country, and it was not new in the Constitution of the United
States when it became a part of the Fourteenth Amendment,
in the year 1866." After observing that the equivalent ofthe phrase "due process of law," according to Lord Coke, is
found in the words "law of the land," in the Great Charter,
in connection with the guarantees of the rights of the subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

211 U. S.

against the oppression of the crown, the court said: "In the
series of amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
proposed and adopted immediately after the organization
of the government, which were dictated by the jealousy of
the States as further limitations upon the power of the Federal
Government, it is found in the Fifth, in connection with other
guarantees of personal rights of the same character." Among
these guarantees this court distinctly said was protection against
being twice tried for the same offense, and protection "against
the accused being compelled, in a criminal case, to testify against
himself." Again, said the court: "It is easy to see that when
the great barons of. England wrung from King John, at the
point of the sword, the concession that neither their lives nor
their property should be disposed of. by the crown, except as
provided by the law Of the land, they meant by 'law of the
land' the ancient and customary laws of the English people,
or laws enacted by the Parliament of which those barons
.were a controlling element. It was not in their minds, therefore, to protect themselves against the enactment of laws by
the Parliament of England. But when, in the year of grace
1866, there is placed in the Constitution of the United States
a declaration that 'no State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law,' can a State
make any thing due process of law which, by its own legislation, it. chooses to declare such? To affirm this is to hold.that
the prohibition to the States is of no avail,, or has no application where the invasion of private rights is affected under the
forms of state legislation."
I cannot support any judgment declaring that immunity
from self-incrimination is not one of the privileges or immunities of National citizenship,' nor a part of the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment against hostile state
action. The declaration of the court, in the opinion just delivered, that immunity from self-incrimination

is of great

value, a protection to the innocent and a afeguard against
unfounded and tyrannical plrosecutiois, meets my cordial

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
Statement of the Case.

211 U. S.

approval. And the court having heretofore, upon the fullest
consideration, declared that the compelling of a citizen of the
United States, charged with crime, to be a witness against
himself, was a rule abhorrent to the instincts of Americans,
was in violation of universal American law, was contrary to
the principles of free government and a weapon of despiotic
power which could not abide the pure atmosphere of political
liberty and personal freedom, I cannot agree that a State
may make that rule a part of its law and binding on citizens,
despite the Constitution of the United States. No ,former
decision of this court requires that we should now so interpret
the Constitution.

STATE OF WASHINGTON v. STATE OF OREGON.
ORIGINAL, IN EQUITY.

No. 3.

Argued January 8,9,1908.-Decided November 16, 1908.

Congress cannot change the boundary of a State without its consent.
In the absence of specific statement to that effect, the middle of a
river, or the middle of the main channel of a river, is not necessarily the exact line when such river separates two States, and where
the boundary is properly established in the center of a particular
channel, it so remains, subject to changes by accretion, notwithstanding another channel may become more important and be regarded as the main channel of the river.
The fact that the south channel of the Columbia River has become
more important than the north channel has not changed the boundary
between the States of Oregon and Washington as fixed by the act
of February 14, 1859, c. 33, 11 Stat. 383, admitting Oregon to the
Union; and that boundary at Sand Island is the center of the north
channel of the Columbia River, subject only to changes by accretion.
The boundary line between Oregon and Washington established as
indicated on maps annexed to the opinion.
In boundary cases where both parties are alike interested the costs are
equally divided between them.
THIS

is an original suit, commenced in this court on Feb-

