SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

NEW YORK ex rel. SILZ v. HESTERBERG, SHERIFF
OF KINGS COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 206. Argued October 12, 1908.-Decided November 2, 1908.
Subject to constitutional limitations, the legislature of a State may
pass measures for the protection of the people in the exercise of the
police power and is the judge of their necessity and expediency.
It is within the police power of a State to prohibit possession of game
during the closed season even if brought from without the State.
A police measure otherwise within the constitutional power of the State
will not be held unconstitutional under the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution because it incidentally and remotely affects
interstate commerce. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, followed; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S.1, distinguished.
The sections of the Forest, Fish and Game Law of the State of New
York which prohibif possession of game during the closed season, are
a valid exercise of the police power of the State and are not in conflict
with 'the Constitution of the United States, either as depriving persons importing game of their property without due process of law,
or as an interference with, or a regulation of, interstate commerce.
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.519.
Independently of the Lacey Act of May 25, 1900, c. 553, 31 Stat. 187,
relating to transportation of game in interstate commerce, the provisions of the New York Forest, Fish and Game Law prohibiting
possession of game in closed season .is
a v~lid 'exercise of the police
power of the State; and quare, but not decided, whether the New
York law is not also validated by such act of Congress.'
184 N. Y. 126, affirmed.

THE facts which involve the constitutionality of the sections of the Forest, Fish and Game Law of the State of New
1 The Court of Appeals of New York, 184 N. Y. 126, held that the
Lacey Act relieved the regulation from the objection that it was unconstitutional as an interferelice with interstate commerce within the'
principles upon which the Wilson Act was sustained by this court in
In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.545.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

York of 1900, relating to the possession of game or fish during
the closed season, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward R. Finch and Mr. John Burlinson Coleman
for plaintiff in error:
The provisions of the Forest, Fish and Game Law are unconstitutional, in that they deprive the individual of his
liberty and property without due process of law.
A State may impose its conditions upon which its game
may be captured, and no one who takes the privilege can
question the conditions; when, however, game is obtained outside of the State and is brought into it as ptivate property,
this rule does not apply. The owner does not get his right
to the game from the State; he holds it independently of the
State, and is the absolute, unqualified owner of the property,
which is protected by the Constitution, and is just as sacred
from encroachment from the State as from others. The State
may regulate its use, so that public health, morals and safety
shall not suffer therefrom, or the citizen be defrauded thereby,
but it cannot prohibit its mere possession or make him a
criminal because he is able to own it.
It is sometimes assumed that because the State can prohibit the possession of state game during the close season, it
can prohibit the possession of game coming from outside the
State, but the right to the one is derived from the State and
the title is conditional, while as to the other the title is absolute and unconditional, and it is property in every sense of
the word. So long as it remains wholesome, and a valuable
article of food, the property is sacred, and no person, not even
the State, can question its possession or proper use.
Nor is this met by § 141 of the Forest, Fish and Game Law
providing a method by which game imported by a citizen
and possessed by him at the commencement of the close season can be lawfully kept by him until the next open season
upon giving a bond. Deprivatior of property without due
process of law still exists, for the possessor of property is en-

SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

titled to its beneficial use and free enjoyment which cannot
be directly or indirectly affected except by due process of
law. Foster v. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577.
The Forest, Fish and Game Law, containing, as it does,
the drastic and severe penalties, attempted to be levied on
the possessors of foreign game within the State of New York,
is not a proper and reasonable exercise of the police power
of the State, -and therefore is not in that way taken without
the prohibition of the Federal Constitution against depriving
the individual of his liberty or property without due process
of law. Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.223, 236; Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.366,
398; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558;
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45.
The authorities do not tend to support the statement in
the opinion of the Court of Appeals that in England and
many of the States of this country legislation prohibiting the
possession of foreign game during the close season has been
upheld as being necessary to the protection of domestic game,
on the ground that without such inhibition or restriction any
law for the protection of domestic game could be successfully
evaded.
The English case of Whitehead v. Smithers, L. R. 2 Common
Pleas Division, 553, which Judge Cullen cites in support of
the statement, has been overruled by the case of Guyer v.
The Queen, decided April 13, 1889, in the Queen's Bench
Division, High Court of Justice, and reported in English Law
Reports, 23 Q. B. Div. 106. And see, in opposition to the
doctrine contended for by Judge Cullen and cases cited by
him, Territory v. Evans, 2 Idaho, 658; Kansas v. Saunders,
19 Kansas, 127; Commonwealth v. Wilkinson, 139 Pa. St. 304;
Commonwealth v. Hall, 128 Massachusetts, 410; People v.
.O'Neill, 71 Michigan, 325; In re Davenport, 102 Fed. Rep.
540; People v. Buffalo Fish Co., 164 N. Y. 93; Commonwealth
v. Paul, 148 Pa. St. 559, 562; Allen v. Young, 76 Maine, 80;
VOL. Ccxi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

211 U. S.

State v. Bucknam, 88 Maine, 385, 392; Dickhaut v. State, 85
Maryland, 451; Davis v. McNair (June, 1885, Canada), 7
Crim. L. Mag. 213; S. C., 21 Cent. L. J. 480; State v. McGuire,
24 Oregon, 366.
The provisions of the Forest, Fish and Game Law are unconstitutional in that they unjustifiably restrict and interfere with foreign commerce. Bowman v. Chicago Ry. Co.,
125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100.; In re Rahrer, 140
U. S. 545; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Vance v. Vandercook,
170 U. S. 438.
The provisions of the Forest, Fish and Game Law, making
the possession of a pure and wholesome article of food, such
as was the imported game in the case at bar, a crime, are not
within the police power of the State, and in that way taken
without the operation of the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 236; Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133,. 137; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 398; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558; Lochner
v. State of New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53; Tiedeman on Limitations of Police Power, 4; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Minnesota v.
Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Redman, 138 U. S. 78;
Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S.
465.
Mr. James A. Donnelly, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of New York, with whom Mr. William Schuyler Jackson,
Attorney Geheral of the State of New York, was on the brief,
for defendant in error:
Traffic in game birds is not governed by the rules which
affect ordinary articles of commerce, for the reason that what
property may be acquired in them is so peculiarly a matter
of state regulation that their possession is controlled by rules
entirely different from those which apply to general articles
of merchandise.

SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The right of the individual to acquire property in game
birds must yield to the superior authority of the State to
restrict their use and possession.
Laws passed for the protection of game do not interfere
with private property.
Each State has the right to enact such laws for the protection of its game as to it shall seem best for the accomplishment of that purpose, and the methods observed by the state
legislature for the protection of game are necessarily within
its discretion.
A state statute prohibiting the possession of game during
certain seasons, from whatever source derived, is a reasonable
method of protecting the domestic game of the State making
the prohibition.
Game can only be the subject of ownership in a qualified
way and can never be the subject of commerce except with
the consent of the State and subject to the conditions which
it may deem best for the public good.
The New York Forest, Fish and Game Law is not a regulation of commerce within the meaning of the Federal Constitution; and the argument that its enactment was in violation
of the powers confided exclusively to Congress fails. Case
below, 184 N. Y. 135, 136; People v. Bootman, 180 N. Y. 1;
People v. O'Neil, 110 Michigan, 324; State v. Randolph, 1 Mo.
App. 15; Stevens v. State, 89 Maryland, 669; State v. Schuman,
58 Pac. Rep. 661; Ex parte Maier, 103 California, 479; Magner
v. People, 97 Illinois, 331; Merrittv. The People, 48 N. E. Rep.
325; Whitehead v. Smithers, 2 Com. Pleas Div. 553; Phelps v.
Racey, 60 N. Y. 10; People v. Buffalo Fish Co., 164 N. Y. 93;
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 517, and cases cited.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes to this court because of the alleged invalidity, under the Constitution of the United States, of certain sections of the game laws of the State of New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Section 106 of chap. 20 of the Laws of 1900 of the State
of New York provides:
"Grouse and quail shall not be taken from January first
to October thirty-first both inclusive. Woodcock shall not
be taken from January first to July thirty-first both inclusive.
Such birds shall not be possessed in their closed season except
in the city of New York, where they may be possessed during
the open season in the State at large."
Section 25 of the law provides:
"The close season f6r grouse shall be from December first
to September fifteenth, both inclusive." As amended by § 2,
chap. 317, Laws of 1902.
Section 140 of the law provides:
"Grouse includes ruffed grouse, partridge, and every member
of the grouse family."
Section 108 of the law provides:
"Plover, curlew, jacksnipe,.Wilsons, commonly known as
English snipe, .yellow legs, killdeer, willet snipe, dowitcher,
shortnecks, rail, sandpiper, baysnipe, surf snipe, winter snipe,
ringnecks and oxeyes shall not be taken or possessed from
January first to July fifteenth both inclusive." As amended
by §2, chap. 588, Laws 1904.
Section 141 of the law provides:
' Whenever in this act the possession of fish or game, or
the flesh of any animal, bird or fish is prohibited, reference
is had equally to such fish, game or flesh coming from without
the State as to that taken within the State. Provided, nevertheless, That if there -be any open season therefor, any dealer
therein, if h has given the bond herein provided for, may
hold during the close season such part of his stock as he has
on hand undisposed of at the opening of such close season.
Said bond shall be to the people of the State, conditioned
that such dealer will not during the close season ensuing,
sell, use, give away, or otherwise dispose of any fish, game,
or the flesh of any animal, bird or fish which he is permitted
to possess during the close season by this section; that he

SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

will not in any way during the time said bond is in force violate
any provision of the'forest, fish and game law; the bond may
also contain such other provisions as to the inspection of the
fish and game possessed as the commission shall require, and
shall be subject to the approval of the commission as to amount
and form thereof, and the sufficiency of sureties. But no
presumption that the possession of fish or game or the flesh
Gf any animal, bird or fish is lawfully possessed under the
provisions of this section shall arise until it affirmatively appears that the provisions thereof have been complied with."
Added by chap. 194, Laws of 1902.
• Section 119 of the law makes a violation of its provisions
a misdemeanor, and subjects the offending parties to a fine.
- The relator, a dealer in imported game, was arrested for
unlawfully having in his possession, on the thirtieth of March,
1905, being Within the closed season in the borough of Brooklyn, city of New York, one dead body of a bird known as the
golden plover, and one dead body of an imported grouse,
known in England as blackeock, and taken in Russia. The
relator filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to be relieved
from arrest, and upon hearing before a justice of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York the writ was dismissed, and
the relator remanded to the custody of the sheriff. Upon
appeal to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York this order was reversed and the relator
discharged from custody. The judgment of the Appellate
Division was reversed in the Court of Appeals of the State of
New York. 3ub nomine People ex rel. Hill v. Hesterbery, 184
N. Y. 126. Upon remittitur to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York from the Court of Appeals the final order
and judgmet-ofth6 Court of Appeals was made the final
order and judgment. of the Supreme Court, and a writ of
error brings the case here for review.
The alleged errors relied upon by the plaintiff in error for
reversal of the judgment below are: First, that the provisions
of the game law in question are contrary to the Fourteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in that
they deprive the relator, and others sii, larly situated, of
their liberty and property without due process of law. Second, that the provisions of the law contravene the Constitution of the United States, in that they are an unjustifiable
interference with and regulation of interstate and foreign
commerce, placed under the exclusive control of Congress
by § 8, Art. 1, of the Federal Constitution. Third, that the
court below erred in construing the act of Congress, commonly known as the Lacey Act, 1900, c. 553, 31 Stat. 187,
which relates to the transportation in interstate commerce
of game killed in violation of local laws. Act of May 25,
1900, ch. 553, 31 Stat. 187.
The complaint discloses that the relator, August Silz, a
dealer in imported game, had in his possession in the city of
New York one imported golden plover, lawfully taken, killed
and captured in England during the open season for such
game birds there, and thereafter sold and consigned to Silz
in the city of New York by a dealer in game in the city of
London. He likewise had in his possession the body of one
imported blackcock, a member of the grouse family, which
was lawfully taken, killed and captured in Russia during the
open season for such game there, and thereafter sold and
consigned to Silz in New York City by the same dealer in
London. Such birds were imported by Silz, in accordance
with the provisions of the tariff laws and regulations in force,
during the open season for grouse and plover in New York.
Such imported golden plover and imported blackcock are
different varieties of game birds from birds known as plover
and grouse in the State of New York; they are different in
form, size, color and markings from the game birds known
as plover and grouse in the State of New York, and can be
readily distinguished from the plover and grouse found in
that State. And this is true when they are cooked and ready
for the table. The birds were sound, wholesome and valuable
articles of food, and recognized as articles of commerce in

SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

different, countries of Europe and in the United States. These
statements of the complaint are the most favorable possible
to the relator, and gave rise to the comment in the opinion
in the Court of Appeals that the case was possibly collusive.
That court nevertheless proceeded to consider the case on the
facts submitted and a similar course will be pursued here.
While the birds mentioned, imported from abroad, may be
distinguished from native birds, they are nevertheless of the
families within the terms of the statute, and the possession
of which, during the closed. season, is prohibited.
As to, the first contention, that the laws in question are
void within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment because they do not constitute due, process of law. The acts in
question were passed in the exercise of the police power of
theState with a clear view to protect the game supply for
the use of the inhabitants of the State. It is not disputed
that this is a well-recognized and often-exerted power of the
State and necessary to the protection of the supply of game
which would otherwise be rapidly depleted, and which, in
spite of laws passed for its protection, is rapidly disappearing
from many portions of the country.
But it is contended that while the protection of the game
supply is within the well-settled boundaries of the police
power of a State, that the law in question is an unreasonable
and arbitrary exercise of that power. That the .legislature
of the State is not the final, judge of the limitations of the
police power, and that such enactments are subject to the
scrutiny of the courts and will be set aside when found to be
unwarranted, and arbitrary interferences with rights, protected
by the Constitution in, carrying on a lawful business or making
contracts for the use and enjoyment of property, is well settled
by former decisions of this court. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.
133, 137; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Dobbins v. Los
195 U. S. 233, 236.
Angeles,
It is contended,
in this connection, that the protection of
the game of the State does not require that a penalty be im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

posed for the possession out of season of imported game of
the kind held by the relator. It is insisted that a method of
inspection can be established which will distinguish the imported game from that of the domestic variety, aw' prevent
confusion in its handling and selling. That such game can be
distinguished from domestic game has been disclosed in the
record in this case, and it may be that such inspection laws
would be all that would be required for the protection of
domestic game. But, subject to constitutional limitations,
the legislature of t4e Spate is authorized to pass measures for
the protection of the people of the State in the exercise of the
police power, and is itself the jfidge of' the necessity or expediency of the means adopted. In .order to protect local
game during the closed season it has been found expedient
to make possession of 'all such game during that time, whether
taken within or without the State, a misdemeanor. In other
States of the Union such laws have -been deemed essential,
and have been sustained by the courts. Roth v. State, 51
Ohio St. 209; Ex parte Maier, 103 California, 476; Stevens v.
The State, 89 Maryland, 669; Magnr- y. The People, 97 Illinois,
320. It has been provided that the possession of certain kinds
of game during the closed- season shall be prohibited, owing
to the possibility that dealers in game may sell birds of the
domestic kind under the claim that they were taken in another State or country. The object of such laws is not to
affect the legality of the taking of game in other States, but
to protect the local game in the interest of the food supply
of the people of the State. We cannot say that such purpose,
frequently recognized and acted upon, is an abuse of the
police power of the State, and as such to be declared void
because contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
It is next Contended that the law is an attempt to unlawfully
regulate foreign commerce which, by the Constitution of the
United States, is placed wholly within the control of the Federal Congress. That a State may not pass laws directly regulat-

SILZ v. HESTERBERG.
211 Ui. S.

'Opinion of the Court.

'ing foreign or interstate commerce has frequently been held
in the decisions of this court. But while this is true, it has also
been held in repeated instances that laws passed by the States
in the exertion of their police power, not in conflict with laws
of Congress upon the same subject, and indirectly or remotely
affecting interstate commerce, are nevertheless valid laws.
M., K. & 7'. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Pennsylvania
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251.
In the case of Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.519, the plaintiff in error was convicted for having in his possession game
birds killed within the State, with the intent to procure transportation of the same beyond the state limits. It was contended that this statute was a direct attempt by the State
to regulate commerce between the States. It was held that
the game of the State was peculiarly subject to the power of
the State Which might control its ownership for the common
benefit of the people, and that it was within the power of the
State to prohibit the transportation of game killed within its
limits beyond the State, such authority being embraced in
the right of the State to confine the use of such game to the
.people of the State. After a discussion of the peculiar nature
of such property and the power of the-State over it, Mr. Justice White, who delivered the opinion of the court in that
ca.se, said, p. 534:
"Aside from the authority of the State, derived from the
common ownership of' game and the trust for the benefit of
its people which the State exercises in relation thereto, there
is another view of the power of the State in regard to the
property in game, which is equally conclusive. The right to
preserve game flows from the undoubted. existence in the
State of a police power to that end, which may be none the
less efficiently called into play, because by doing so interstate commerce may be remotely and indirectly affected.
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.485;
Sherlock v.'Alling, 93 U. S.99, 103; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1. Indeed, the source of the police power as to game birds

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

(like those covered by the statute here called in question)
flows from the duty of the State to preserve for its people a
valuable food supply. Phelps v. Racey, 60 N. Y. 10; Ex parte
Maier, 103 California, 476; Magner v. The People, 97 Illinois,
320, and the cases there cited. The exercise by the State of
such power therefore comes directly within the principle of
Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, 473. The power of
a State to protect by adequate police regulation its people
against the adulteration of articles of food, (which was in that
case maintained), although in doing so commerce might be
remotely affected, necessarily carries with it the existence
of a like power to preserve a food supply which belongs in
common to all the people of the State, which can only become the subject of ownership in a qualified way, and which
can never be the objec4 of commerce except with the consent
of the State and subject to the conditions which it may deem
best to impose for the public good."
In the case of Plumley v. Massachusetts, referred to in
the opinion just cited, 155 U. S. 461, 473, it was held that
a law of the State of Massachusetts which prevented the sale
of oleomargarine colored in imitation of butter was a legal
exertion of police power on the part of the State, although
oleomargarine was a wholesome article of food transported from
another State, and this upon the principle that the Constitution did not intend, in conferring upon Congress an exclusive
power to regulate interstate commerce, to take from the, States
the right to make reasonable laws concerning the health, life
and safety of its citizens, although such legislation might
indirectly affect foreign or interstate commerce, and the general statement in Sherlock v. Aling, 93 U. S. 99, 103, was
quoted with approval: "And it may be said generally, that the
legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or any
of its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties and liabilities of citizens,- and only indirectly and remotely affecting
the operations of commerce, is of obligatoryforce upon citizens
within its territorial iurisdiction, whether on land or water,

SILZ 'v. HESTERBERG.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in any other
pursuit."
It is true that in the case of Schollenberger v. Pennsyh'ania,
171 U. S. 1, it was held that a state law (act No. 25 of May 21,
1885, Laws, p. 22) directly prohibiting the introduction in
interstate commerce of a healthful commodity for the purpose
of thereby preventing the traffic in adulterated and injurious
articles within the State, was not a legitimate exercise of the
police power. But in that vase there was a direct, and it was
held unlawful, interference with interstate commerce as such.
In the case at bar the interference with foreign commerce is only
incidental and not the direct purpose of the enactment for the
protection of the food supply and the domestic game of the State.
It is provided in the New York statutes that game shall be
taken only (luring certain seasons of the year, and to make
this ptovision effectual it is further provided that the prohibited game shall not be possessed within the State during
such times, and owing to the likelihood of fraud and deceit
in the handling of such game the possession of game of the
classes named is likewise prohibited, whether it is killed
within or without the State. Such game may be legally imported during the open season, and' held and possessed within
the State of New York, It may be legally held in the closed
season upon giving bond as provided by the statute against
its sale. Incidentally, these provisions may affect the right of
one importing game to hold and dispose of it in the closed
season, but the effect is only incidental. The purpose of the
law is not to regulate interstate commerce, but by laws alike
applicable to foreign and domestic game to protect the people
of the State in the right to use and enjoy the game of the State.
The New York Court of Appeals further held that the socalled Lacey Act (31 Stat. 187) 1 relieved the regulation of the
objection- in question because of the consent of Congress to
I The object and purpose of this act, as stated in § 1 thercof, is to
aid in the restoration of such birds in those parts of the United
States adapted thereto, where the same have become scarce or extinct,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the passage of such laws concerning such commerce, interstate and foreign, within the principles upon which the Wilson
Act 1 was sustained by this court. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545.
In the aspect in which the game law of New York is now
before this court we think it was a valid exertion of the police
power, independent of any authorization thereof by the Lacey
Act, and we shall therefore not stop to examine the provisions
of that act. For the reasons stated, we think the legislature,
in the particulars in which the statute is here complained of,
did. not exceed the police power of the State nor run counter
to the protection afforded the citizens of the State by the
Constitution. of the United States.

Judgment affirmed.
and also to regulate the introduction of American or foreign birds or
animals in localities where they have uot heretofore existed.
Section 5 of the act is as follows:
"That all dead bodies, or parts thereof, of any foreign game animals,
or game or song birds, the importition of which is prohibited, or the
dead bodies, or parts thereof, of any wild game animals, or game or
song birds transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein
for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such
State or Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws
of such State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police powers,
to the same extent and in the same manner as though such animals or
birds had been produced in such State or Territory; and shall not be
exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in the original
package or otherwise. This act shall not prevent the importation,
transportation,. or sale of birds or bird plumage manufactured from the
feathers of barnyard fowls."
1 Act of August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, which enacted, "That
all fermented, distilled, or other intoxicating liquors or liquids transported into any State or Territory or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or
Territory be subject to the operation and effect of the laws of such
State or Territory enacted in the exercise of its police powers, to 'the
same extent and in the same manner as though such liquids or liquors
had been produced ineuch State or Territory, and shall not be exempt
ther*froni by reason -of being introduced therein in original packages
or otherwise."

