UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U.S.

Syllabus.

of the state court for the purpose of the case before it; the other
was a different question, depending on independent considerations exclusively cognizable in the bankruptcy court. The
state court was, therefore, right in so deciding.

Affirmed.
UNI1TED STATES v. BIGGS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 289.

Argued December 16, 17, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370, followed as to the power of this
court to review judgments in criminal cases at the instance of the
Government under the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2546, 34 Stat. 1246.
The timber and stone act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89, as amended
by the act of August 4, 1892, c. 375, § 2, 27 Stat. 348,1 while prohibiting the entryman from entering ostensibly for himself but in reality
for another, does not prohibit him from selling his claim to another
after application and before final action. Williamson v. United States,
207 U. S. 425.
An indictment for conspiracy to defraud the United States by improperly obtaining title to public lands will not lie under § 5440,
Rev. Stat., where the only acts charged were permissible under the
land laws.
When this court in affirming a judgment in a criminal case under the
act of March 2, 1907, c. 2546, 34 Stat. 1246, has decided on a broad
ground that the Government cannot prosecute the case, it is not
necessary for it to decide the other questions involved which thereby
become irrelevant?
157 Fed. Rep. 264, affirmed.
I For an abstract of the timber and stone act see note in Williamson
v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 455.
2 The point not passed on was, as stated in the'syllabus of the opinion
in the case below: An indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5440 for conspiracy
to defraud the United States, which sets out a number of overt acts on
different dates, is either bad for duplicity, as charging more than one
conspiracy, or if held to charge a single continuing conspiracy, the
offense was consummated when the first overt act was committed, and
from that date the statute of limitations began to run.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.
THE

211 U. S.

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Attorney General and The Solicitor General, with whom
Mr. Edwin W. Lawrence, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief for the United States:
Here, as in the coal land cases, the argument is that the
court below merely held that the facts charged in the indictment were not within the statute, and therefore the indictment and not the statute was interpreted or construed. That
contention, the court in those cases held to be devoid of all
merit. United States v. Keitel, ante, p. 370.
As the court below in construing the indictment really construed the law and merely :applied that construction to the indictment, it seems proper for the Government to discuss the
indictment in the light of its language as drawn from the law
itself, notwithstanding this court held in the Keitel case that,
on such a writ of error, it has not jurisdiction to consider alleged defects in the indictment or misconstruction of the indictment irrespective of construction of the statute.
. "To enter" in the third section of the law refers to final
proofs and payment, but "make entries" in the indictments is not to be so construed. The word "entry" often
refers to the filing of the inceptive right as in the early case
of Chotard v. Pope, 12 Wheat. 586. That is the popular
sense as shown by the dictionaries, but the technical meaning includes the proceedings as a whole and the complete
transfer of title. Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S. 539,
544, 545; Hastings &c. R. R. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357, 363.
"To obtain" lands signifies similarly the complete process of acquisition, and since the indictment, following the
law, describes these lands as "open to entry," the charge includes the initial application. In Adams v. Church, 193 U. S.
51(6, referring to the timber culture law, the meaning attached
to entry is the original application, the court using the language, "after entry and before final proof." And under this
very law in Williamson v. United States the court uses the

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

509

Argument for the United States.

term in precisely the same sense, viz.: "in the interim between
entry and final proof." 207 U. S. 461.
The indictments sufficiently charge a conspiracy to defraud, although the conspiracy did not embrace the making
of false and fraudulent applications.
The timber and stone act restricts the quantity of timber
land to be sold to 160 acres to any one person or association
of persons. A corporation could not, without violating the
law, step into the shoes of the various applicants and in its
own name take the steps which the law requires for completion of the entries. But this is what the indictments charge
that the defendants conspired to do, except that it is alleged
that they planned that the applicants should complete the
entries without disclosing the interest of the corporation.
The applicants would be acting merely as the agents of the
corporation, and in each case the sale would be made by the
United States to the corporation and not to the entrymen.
This is not a bona fide contract by an entryman to convey
after patent. The Williamson case can be distinguished. See
United States v. Budd, 144 U. S. 154; United States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S. 160.
The coal land statutes did nit require the applicant to
make an affidavit. at entry that he was purchasing solely for
his own benefit; neither does the timber and stone act require such an affidavit to be made at the time the lands are
purchased from the United States. Both statutes prohibit the
acquisition from the United States by one person of more
than a certain quantity of land. The plan carried out by the
Trinidad Coal Company, was held fraudulent because the
company did indirectly what it could not do directly. This
is exactly what the defendants in the present cases are
charged with. The end, fraud, being unlawful, it was unnecessary to set out in detail the indirect means contemplated by
the conspiracies. Dealy V. United States, 152 U. S. 539, 543;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344; Thomas v. United States,
156 Fed. Rep. 897; United States v, Grunberg, 131 Fed. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

211 U. S.

137; Thomas v. People, 113 Illinois, 131; People v. Bird, 126
Michigan, 631.
If there ever was a rule that the statute of limitations begins
to run as soon as the first overt act in pursuance of a conspiracy has been committed and in three years thereafter the
bar is complete, it has been entirely superseded by the rule
that the crime consists in putting a corrupt agreement into
operation, and the limitation runs from the date of the last
overt act committed for the purpose of effecting the object
of the conspiracy. The question is whether the conspiracy
is in existence, and overt acts of individual conspirators
committed within the period of the statute are evidence of a
renewal and continuance of the conspiracy. Ware v. United
States, 154 Fed. Rep. 577, and cases cited. At least four cases
involving this point have recently been brought before the court
on petition for certiorari, and the petitions have been denied.
Lorenz v. United States, 196 U. S. 640; Bradford v. United
Slates, 206 U. S. 563; Ware v. United States, 207 U. S. 588;
Jones v. United States, this term, post.
All that was .decided in Adams v. Church and Williamson
v. United States touching the point in the present case was
that an entryman has the right to dispose of his holding acquired in good faith before the final certificate. No question
was involved in-either case of the acreage restriction in the
timber culture law and this law, respectively, or of the right
of a purchaser to buy. It was determined that the entryinan
had the right to sell. An entryman's right to sell ad interim
depends upon his good faith, and he is bound in good faith
to disclose his principal, although it may not be criminal for
him not to do so or even to swear to the contrary. A purchaser cannot legally buy in the interim between application
and final proof, that is, t)cforc title has been acquired from the
United States, if he has already b1ought one tract. l-ie is a
(isqualified purchaser. Entrymen who are not themselves
conspirators and who are acting separately are nevertheless
the agents, although unconscious and innocent, it may be,

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

of an undisclosed principal. The Government is not prosecuting the entrymen but the conscious agents of the principal
conspiring to violate the law and evading its prohibition by
procuring from the United States indirectly through the
entrymen more land than the principal could buy directly.
If the Williamson case means that title vests in the cntryman
as soon as he makes preliminary application, and that a purchaser in the interim before final proof would be buying from
him and not from the United States, just as much as after
final proof and payment or after patent, then indeed it is
conclusive against the Government here, and there is no
violation of law, for the law does not mean what it seems to
mean by its acreage restriction. Otherwise this scheme is a
fraud, because. it is sought to obtain lands from the United
States indirectly in violation of law, just as much as the
scheme in the Trinidad case, or in the Keitel case, or the Forrester case, which is said by the court not to be distinguishable
from the Keitel case as involving a violation of the coal land law.
Unless there is less meaning and force in the prohibition
of the timber and stone law than in the prohibition of the
coal land law, and unless there is some difference which we
do not perceive between the interim status of an entryman
here and the status of a preference entryman in the corresponding interval under the coal land law, this case is not distinguishable from the case of the coal preference entries (the
Forrester case), and if the Williamson case does not rule that
case, neither does it rule this.
Mr. Charles J. Hughes and Mr. Clyde C. Dawson for defendants in error:
This court is without jurisdiction of these writs of error
under the act of March 2, 1907:
Because neither § 5440 nor the timber and stone act were
held invalid; nor were either of said statutes the subject of
construction by the District Court; nor can the jurisdiction
of this court be sustained under the clause of the act of March 2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

211 U. S.

1907, relating to judgments sustaining. "a opecial plea in
bar," for neither a "special plea in bar" nor a judgment'
sustaining a "special plea in bar" appear in the records.
No offense is charged in the indictments.
There are many "laws" of the United States under which
timber lands may be entered. There is only one of those laws
which indicates any policy of the Governnent restricting the
amount of land which may be entered by any one individual
or corporation. These indictments charge conspiracy to Procure the entering of lands under some of these laws, but do
not in any manner allege that this conspiracy was a conspiracy to procure entries under the one law which restricts
the amount that can be entered. The defendants are entitled
to the presumption that their combination was one to procure
entries under the laws which do not so restrict the area of
entry, and not under the law which does so restrict it.
And, therefore, these indictments do not charge any attempt to "defraud theL United States in any manner for any
purpose."
Under the restrictive law to which we have referred, the
only thing which the Congress of the United States attempted
to prevent is the making of contracts, before the making of
applications to purchase, whereby the entryman binds himself to convey the title which he shall acquire. from the Government to some other person.
Itmust be presumed that the intent of the entrymen was
innocent, and that they did not conspire to make these contracts of conveyance at any time when the laws of the United
States, as interpreted by its Supreme Court, prohibited such
* action. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S.425.
The only point where any representation in regard to such
agreements of conveyance is required, is at the making of
the application; that is to say, when the first application is
made to the officers of the Government.
To "defraud the United States" a false representation of
some fact is necessary, and these indictments show no con-

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

spiracy to procure the making of any representations by any
person whatsoever. It is only by the most violent presumption that such conclusions can be reached from the allegations
of these indictments. In the absence of such affirmative
allegations the defendants are entitled to the presumption that
they did not conspire to procure the making of any false
representations whatsoever, or any representation at a time
when the same would be false, and hence did not conspire to
"defraud the United States" in any manner or for any purpose.
The making of false representations, if alleged, in violation
of a Land Department regulation imposing on the entryman
a condition not contained in the law, would 'constitute no
offense. Williamson v. United States, supra.
If such regulation exists it has not been pleaded, and hence
cannot be relied upon. United States v. Bedgood, 49 Fed.
Rep. 54; United States v., Eaton, 144 U. S. 677, 687, 688;
United States v. Maid, 116 Fed. Rep. 650; United States v.
Blassingame, 116 Fed. Rep. 654; Anchor v. Howe, 50 Fed.
Rep. 366; United States v. Howard, 37 Fed. Rep. 666; Hoover
v. Salling, 110 Fed. Rep. 43; United States v. Manion, 44
Fed. Rep. 801; United States v. Hodver, 133 Fed. Rep. 950;
United States .v.Matthews, 146 Fed. Rep. 306; United States
v. United Verde Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207; Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S. 425.
Conclusions of law and of the pleader and not facts are
pleaded.
References to the overt acts are necessary in order to determine definitely th(e conspiracy charged.
There is no certainty, of allegation as to the time of the
alleged offense conspired to be accomplished.
There is no allegation that the defendants conspired to
defraud the United States.
The overt acts, alleged in each indictment, show on their
face that no one of them was done in pursuance of the conspiracies charged nor to effect the object of the same, and
VOL. ccxi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

hence in failing to charge an overt act to effect.the object of
the conspiracies the indictments fail to charge a crime.
MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

It is adequate to an understanding of the questions which
are here necessary to be decided in general terms to say that
the indictment against the defendants in error charged them
with conspiracy in violation of the second clause of § 5440,
Rev. Stat., which -makes it criminal to conspire to defraud the
United States "in any manner or for any purpose." The
means by which it was contemplated that the United States
should be defrauded was charged in the indictment to have
been the unlawful obtaining by purchase under the timber
and stone act of public land of the United States in excess of
the quantity authorized by law to be acquired. The timber
and stone act when originally enacted in June, 1878, related
solely to public lands within particular States. 20 Stat. c.
151, 89. In 1892, however, that act was amended by striking out the designation of particular States, thus causing the
act to apply to "surveyed public lands of the United States
within the public land States." 27 Stat. c. 375, 348. As
it is essential to have that act in mind we excerpt from the
opinion of the court below a succinct but comprehensive and
accurate statement of its provisions:
"This act in its first section specifies the qlualifications of
purchasers or entrymen thereunder, and limits the, amount
of land which each may acquire to one hundred and sixty
acres. The' second section provides that the applicant, at
the time of his application, shall file a written statement in
duplicate under oath with the register, describing the land
which he desires to purchase and its quality, that he has
made no other application under this act, and that he does not
apply to purchase the same on speculation, but in good faith
to appropriate it to his own exclusive use and benefit, and
that he has not, directly or indirectly, made any agreement or

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contract in any way or manner, with any person or persons
whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire from
the Government of the United States should inure, in whole
or in part, to the benefit of any person except himself. It
then provides that if he swears falsely he shall be guilty of
perjury and forfeit the money which he paid for said lands,
and all right and title to the same, and any grant or conveyance which he may have made, except in the hands of bona
fide purchasers, shall be null and void. The third section
provides that on the filing of the applicant's statement the
register shall post a notice of the application in his office for
a period of sixty days, and that the applicant shall publish
the same notice in a newspaper nearest the location of the
premises for a like period of time, and after the expiration of
said sixty days, if no adverse claim shall have been filed, the.
party desiring to purchase shall furnish to the register of the
land office satisfactory evidence, first, that said notice of the
application prepared by the register as aforesaid was duly
published in a newspaper as herein required; secondly, that
the land is of the character contemplated in this act, unoccupied and without -improvements, etc., etc., and upon payment to the proper officer of the purchase money of said land,
together with the fees of the register and receiver, etc., etc.,
the applicant may be permitted to enter said land, and a
patent shall issue thereon. It further provides that any person having a valid claim to any' portion of the land may object
in writing to the issuance of the patent, and evidence shall
be taken thereon as to the merits of said objection."
The indictment contained one count, supported by averments of fourteen overt acts.
The accused after moving to .quash on the ground/of the
illegality of the organization of the grand jury, demurred to
the indictment on a number of technical grounds, and upon
the contentions that the facts stated in the indictment were
insufficient to charge an offense within any statute of the
United States, and that as the indictment had not been found

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

within three years of the commission of the acts therein
alleged, the right to prosecute for the same was barred by
the statute of limitations. The court held the indictment
stated no offense against the United States, and, sustaining
the demurrer upon that ground, discharged the accused
without date. It was also held that if the indictment was
construed as embracing but one offense, the three years' bar
of the statute of limitations was controlling, but that if it
were held that the indictment stated more than one offense,
thus saving one of the offenses from the operation of the
statute of limitations, the indictment would be void for
duplicity.
The reasons which caused the court to reach the conclusions
just stated were expounded in an opinion. Therein, in order
to determine whether the indictment stated an offense against
the United States, the court came first to construe it in the
light of the provisions of the timber and stone act. In doing
so the court said:
"We find that the indictment sets in where the second
section of the timber and stone act leaves off. It charges
that the purpose of the conspiracy was to 'hire and under
agreements' with entrymen have them pay for the lands with
moneys of the corporation and have them make entries. It
does not charge the date on which such hiring and agreements
to make entries were to be made, nor that the entrymen were
hired to make applications, nor that said hiring and agreements
were prior to any application. The indictment appears to
attempt to challenge some acts done by the entrymen under
the provisions of section 3 of said act, to wit: The hiring of
and agreement with entrymen (who had made application before that under section 2 of the act) to make entries and pay for
the land with moneys furnished by the corporation. . .
But it is said the indictment charges a violation of section 1 of
the act in the acquisition of more land by the corporation than
there limited. When it comes to that the indictment does not
charge that the several entrymen were disqualified as such,

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nor that when they made application they had outstanding
contracts to sell, or were then acting under agreements or
hire for said defendants or Said corporation. A compliance
with the timber and stone act, by the entrymen, in both its
spirit and letter, prior to and at time of application is not
challenged by the indictment."
Having thus construed the indictment it was then considered whether any offense was therein stated against the
United States. In deciding that no offense was stated it was
held that although it were conceded that the timber and stone
act prohibited an entryman or applicant from making an
application ostensibly in his own name, but in reality for and
on behalf of another, that if an applicant or entryman made
an application in good faith for his own exclusive use and
benefit the statute contained no prohibition, express or implied, against the right of the entryman, after his application
and before the final action thereon, to sell to another the
claim to the land which had arisen from his application. It
was therefore decided that such applicant was at liberty to
contract with another to convey the land covered by the
application and to perfect his entry for the purpose of fulfilling his contract to convey the land after patent. In reaching
this conclusion the court was controlled by the decision in
Adams v. Church, 193 U. S. 510, giving a like construction to
the timber culture act of June 14, 1878, c. 190, 20 Stat. 113.
Having thus decided that the indictment as construed charged
the doing of no unlawful act, but simply the exercise of a
lawful right not in any way prohibited, but on the contrary
impliedly sanctioned by the statute, it was decided that under
no possible construction could the acts charged constitute an
unlawful conspiracy within the second clause of § 5440, Rev.
Stat. And for additional reasons expressed in the opinion
the conclusions of the court concerning the bar of the statute
of limitations and the duptlcity of the indictment, if it were
so construed as to save it from the statute, were fully expressed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

This writ of error, direct from this court, is prosecuted by
the United States under the authority of the act of 1907.1
Our right to review the decision below is questioned by the
defendants in error on the ground, first, that the court below
did not construe, but 'simply interpreted, § 5440, Rev. Stat.,
and the provisions of the timber and stone act; and, second,
because, although it applied the bar of the statute of limitations, the court did not do so by way of sustaining a plea in
bar, but simply incidentally passed upon that question in
deciding the demurrer'.
The want of merit in the first contention is established by
United States v. Keitel, No 286 of this term, ante, p. 370.
As therefore we have in any event jurisdiction to review
the action of the trial court in construing the timber and
stone act and in fixing the meaning of § 5440, Rev. Stat., in'
the light of that construction, we presently pass the consideration of the ruling made by the court in respect to the
statute of limitations. We do this because if it be found that
the court below was right in its conclusions as to the construction of the timber and stone act aiid of § 5440, Rev. Stat., its
judgment quashing the indictment will be sustained, and its
action concerning the statute of limitations will become irrelevant, and will not require examination, unless it be our duty
under the act of 1907, which we shall also hereafter consider,
to pass upon. that question, although its decision will have
become wholly unnecessary.
It is also settled by United States v. Keitel, supra,. that the
right given to the United States to obtain a direct review
from this court of the rulings of the lower court on the subjects embraced within the statute of 1907 does not give authority to revise the action of the court below as to the mere
construction of an indictment, and therefore in the exercise
of our power to review on this record we must accept the
construction of the indictment made by the lower court and
test its construction of the statute in that aspect.
' The act of March 2, 1907, is reproduced in full on p. 398, ante.

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While not questioning this general rule, the United States
insists that the case here presented is an exception to that
rule, because of the contention that the construction given
by the court below to the indictment was but the necessary
result of the misconstruction which the court applied to the
timber and stone act, and hence that a review of the construction given to the indictment is necessarily involved in the
determination of the correctness of the construction given
by the court to the statute. Conceding the premise for the
sake of argument, the deduction by which it is sought to
apply it to the case in hand is, we think, without foundation.
It proceeds upon a subtle separation of particular words or
phrases in the indictment from the context of that pleading
and the affixing to the words thus separated a penetrating
but, nevertheless, too narrow significance for the purpose of
establishing the proposition relied upon. On the contrary,
we think the conclusion cannot be escaped that the construction given by the court below to the indictment was the result
merely of the analysis which the court made of the indictment
as an entirety, of its appreciation of the nature and character
of the acts therein referred to and of the overt acts alleged,
the whole read in the light of the elementary canons of construction applicable to criminal pleadings and elucidated, as
the court expressly stated, by the entire absence of anything
in the indictment tending to show that the pleader contemplated alleging the existence of any conspiracy to induce the
making of applications to purchase.
Coming to consider the construction given by the court to
the timber and stone act as applied to the allegations of the
indictment, as interpreted by the court, the correctness of
the construction given by the court below to the statute is
established beyond controversy by the decision in Williamson
v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, announced since the decision
below was rendered.
The Wiliamson case was a prosecution for a conspiracy in
violation of §5440, Rev. Stat., to procure the commission of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the crime of subornation of perjury by causing certain affidavits to be made for the purpose of acquiring land under the
timber and stone act. At the trial, over exceptions, affidavits
as to the bona fides of a number of applicants and of the purpoae of each in making his application to acquire only for
himself were offered in evidence, and like affidavits which
were, required by the rules and regulations of the Land Department at the time of the final entry were also offered in
evidence. The Government insisted that the papers .were
admissible because the indictment charged a conspiracy to
suborn perjury, not only at the time of the application to
purchase but also in. the subsequent stage of making the final
entry, and that.even if this were not the case the affidavits
made after applicatl 6 n were admissible for the purpose of
showing the motive which existed at the time the application
was made. It was decided that the indictment only charged
subornation of perjury at the time of the application. Passing
on the alleged contention as to motive, it was held that in
view of the requirements as to an affidavit exacted by the
statute to be made at the time of the application as to the
bonafides of the applicant and his intention to buy for himself
alone and the absence of any such requirement in the statute
as to the final entry, that the prohibition of the statute applied
only to the condition of things existing at the time of the application to purchase and did not restrict an entryman after
said application was made from agreeing to convey to another
and perfecting his entry for the purpose after patent of transferring the land in order to perform his contract. It was,
therefore, held that the affidavits made at the final stage of
the transaction .were not admissible to show motive at the
time of the applications to purchase, and that any requirements ontained in the rules and regulations of the Land
Department making an affidavit essential to show bona fides,
etc., at the final stage Were ultra tires and void. In passing
upon the subject the ruling to the like effect concerning the
timber culture act, made in Adams v. Church, supra, was

UNITED STATES v. BIGGS.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reiterated and approved, and declared to be applicable to the
timber and stone act, despite immaterial differences, in the
phraseology of the two' acts. The court, after approvingly
referring to Adams v. Church, and after reviewing the timber,
and stone act, and callinfg attention to the entire omission of
all requirement that statement as to the purpose and intention of the entryman should be made at the date of the
final step in the acquisition of' the land, said (p. 460): "Indeed, we cannot perceive how under the statute if an applicant has, in good faith, complied with the requirements of
the second section of the act, and pending the publication
of notice, has contracted to convey, after patent, his rights
in the land, his -doing so could operate to forfeit his right."
It is insisted by the Government that, however conclusive
may be this ruling as to the power of the applicant to sell after
application and to perfect his entry for the purpose of enabling him to perform such contract, such ruling does not con-.
elude the contention that a conspiracy formed to induce an
entryman who has made his application to purchase subsequently to agree to convey his interest in the land would be a
violation of the statute. But we are constrained to say that
this is a mere distinction without a difference. The effect of
the ruling in the Williamson case was to hold that the prohibition of the statute only'applied to the period of original
application, -and ceased to restrain the power of the entryman '
to sell to another and perfect his entry for the purpose of transferring the title after patent. This being concluded by the
decision in 'the Williamson case, the distinction now sodght
to be made comes to this, that it is unlawful under the statute
to conspire to have that done which the statute did not prohibit, and, on the contrary, by implication recognized could
be lawfully done without prejudice or injury to the United
Siites in any manner whatever. This also serves to demon/ strate that no error was committed by the court below in holding that tnder § 5440, Rev. Stat., the acts charged in the
indictment could not possibly have constituted a defrauding

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

of the United States in any manner or for any purpose within
the intendment of that section.
It remains only to notice the ruling of the court below as
to the bar of the statute of limitations. While the act of 1907 1
gives authority to come directly here to obtain a review of"
the construction of a statute under the circumstances which
the act enumerates, and blso authorizes us to review a "decision or judgment sustaining a special plea in bar, when the
defendant has not been put in jeopardy," we consider that
the power given, is coincident with the purpose for which it
was conferred, that is, to have determined in a case within
the statute the question whether or not the Government is
entitled to further prosecute the case, and therefore does not
of cotirse call upon us to decide every question of the character
referred to-in the statute, when by the decision of one of such
question's the case is completely disposed of and the other
questions 'bave become so irrelevant as to cause it to be in
our opinion unnecessary to consider and determine them. Of
course, under these circumstances, we intimate no opinion whatever concerning the correctness of the -construction adopted
by the court below./in respect to the'statute of limitations.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SULLENBERGER.
ERROR TO THE

DISTRICT
THE

No. 29Q.

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

DISTRICT

OF

OO1ORADO.

Argued December 16, 17, 1908.-Decided

January 4, 1909.

bocir'ed on the authority of United States v. Biggs, ante, p. 507.

THE facts are stated in the -qinion.
I The

FOR

act of March 2, 1907, is reproduced in full, ante, p. 398.

