BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
211 U. S.

Syllabus.

in violation of the Constitution or lAws of the United States.
It is a curious condition of things if this court must remain
silent when the question comes before it regularly, whether
the final judgment of the highest court of a State does not
deprive the citizen of rights secured to him by the Supreme
Law of the Land.
For the reasons stated I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY also dissented.

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 36.

Argued December 3, 1908.-Decided December 21, 1908.

The common-law rule of assumption of known risk by the employe
has never been modified by statute in.the District of Columbia, and
even if hardship results the court must enforce the rule.
One understanding the condition of machinery and dangers arising
therefrom, or who is capable of so doing, and voluntarily, in the
course of employment, exposes himslf thereto, assumes the risk
thereof and if injury results cannot recover against his employer.
Although the plaintiff, if of full age and understanding, may testify to
the contrary, where the elements and combination out of which the
danger arises are-so visible and have been of such longstanding that
the dangers are obvious to all, the question is one of law for the court
and the judge should instruct the jury that a verdict for plaintiff
cannot be' sustained.
In this case, held that an employ6 in a laundry, who had been employed
in laundries for two years and was familiar with the machinery used
therein, could not recover for injuries received by a machine on which
she had been working for three months, and the imperfections, if any,
of which she did not at any time report to her employer.
25"App. D. C. 392, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

211 U. S.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Gittings, with whom Mr. Justin Morrill Chamberlin was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The master is under obligation not to expose servants, when
conducting the master's business, to perils or hazards against
which they may be guarded by proper diligence on the part of
the master. The defendant in error, under the implied contract between employer and employe, was negligent in failing
to so adjust the guard that it would prevent plaintiff's hands
from coming into contact with the dangerous machinery.
Hough's Case, 100 U. S. 213; McDaniels' Case, 1,07 U. S. 454;
Herbert's Case, 116 U. S. 642; Archibald's Case, 170 U. S. 665;
McDade's
191 U" S. 64.
AlthoughCase,
plaintiff may have known of the defect in the
machinery, this will not defeat her recovery unless she knew that
the defect rendered the thing absolutely dangerous. Hayzel v.
Railway Co., 19 App. D. C. 372.
"The master should inform the servant of the danger, and
it is not enough that the servant knew or ought to have known
the actual character and condition of the defective instru*mentalities furnished for his use. He must also have understood, or by means of ordinary observation ought to have
understood, the risks to which he was exposed by their use."
Russel v. Railway Co., 32 Minnesota, 234.
That this guard, remaining at the height of one and one-half
inches from the feed board, exposed plaintiff to an unnecessary
danger is perfectly obvious from the fact of the accident.
Choctaw R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64; Indermaur v. Dame,
L. R. 1 C. P. 288; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 386.
It cannot be fairly said as a matter of law, from the facts in
* this case, that the danger incident to having the finger guard
one and one-half inches in height was "something which inheres
in the thing itself, which is a matter of necessity and cannot
be obviated. Pikesville R. R. Co. v. Russell, 88 Maryland, 571
See also Wabash Ry. Co. v. McDaniels, 107.U, S. 457; David v

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Garrett,6 Bingham, 724; R. R. Co. v. Reaney, 42 Maryland, 137;
Stergis v. Kuntz, 165 Pa. St. 358; Fronk v. Evans' Steam Laundry Co., 70 Nebraska, 75; Stager v. Troy Laundry Co., 38 Oregon,
480.
Mr. Leonard J. Mather, with whom Mr. Charles A. Keigwin was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The defects complained of were open and obvious to the
plaintiff in error, who, giving no notice thereof, thereby assumed the risk of using the defective machine. Medairy Case,
86 Maryland, 168; Hayzel Case, 19 App. D. C. 369; Ciraack
v. Merchants' Woolen Co., 6 L. R. A. 733; Connolly v. Eldredge,
160 Massachusetts, 560; Ry. Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 672;
Hough's Case, 100 U. S. 224; Tuttle v. Ry., 122 U.S. 189; Way
v. Railway, 40 Iowa, 341; Murphy v. Rockwell Eng. Co., 70 N. J.
L. 374; Schofield v. Ry. Co., 114 U. S. 615; Kohn v. McNulta,
147 U. S. 271; Dist. of Columbia v. McElligott, 117 U., S.
621; Richardson v. Cooper, 88 Illinois, 270; Shearman and
R'edfield's Negligence, § 209a.
Even where the master has neglected to provide safeguards
required by statute, the servant cannot recover if he used the
machine in its unprotected conditiofn and could see the danger.
Krusley v. Pratt, 148 N. Y. 372; Keenan v. Edison"Co., 159
Massachusetts, 379.
The rule is well stated in Hickey v. Taafe, 105 N. Y. 26.
See, also, Ogley v. Miles, 139 N. Y. 458; Caudet v. Stansfield,
182 Massachusetts, 451; Hoyle v. Excelsior Steam Laundry Co.,
95 Georgia, 34; Blom v. Yellowstone Park Assn., 86 Minnesota,
237; Keenan v. Waters, 181 Pa. St. 247; Jones v. Roberts, 57
Ill. App. 56; Hanson v. Hammell, 107 Iowa, 171; Crowley v.
Pacific Mills, 148 Massachusetts, 228; Greef Brothers v. Brown,
7 Kans. App. 394.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error brought an action against the defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

.

211 U. S.

ant in error in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
in which she sought to recover damages for injuries suffered
by her while in the defendant's employ. The injuries were
incurred while the defendant was operating a mangle in the
defendant's steam laundry. The function of themachine was
to iron and dry clothes by drawing them between a cylinder and
a series of rollers. The cylinder was of steel, four feet in diameter and eight feet long, and heated by steam. Above and in
contact with it were five rollers. When in motion the cylinder
and the rollers revolved inwardly. In front of the cylinder
and closely fitted to it was a feed board, twelve to fifteen inches
wide and eight feet long. It was the duty of the operator of
the machine to spread the damp article to be ironed upon the
feed board and push it forward until it touched the cylinder,
by whose motion it was drawn upward to the point of engagement between the cylinder and the first roller, thereby being
drawn through between the cylinder and the rollers. For the
safety of the operator the machine was equipped with a finger
guard, which was a- bar of steel eight feet long, three inches.
wide and one-eighth of an inch thick, extending from side to
side of the machine, and about four inches distant from the
revolving cylinder. The guard was painted red. It was adjustable and could be set at a height above the feed board of
from one-fourth of an inch to four inches, depending upon the
thickness of the clothes to be ironed. On this mangle the guard
had always been adjusted at a height of one and one-half inches
above the feed board. The various parts of the machine described and their relation to each other and the mode of operation were in plain view of the operator. The plaintiff was
twenty-two years of age, apparently of full intelligence, and
before'entering the employ o.f the defendant had had two
years' experiene in the operation of mangles in other establishments. She testified that those mangles were equipped with
finger guards, which prevented the -operator's hands from
coming into contact with the steam cylinder, and that she had
never known of any injury happening to an operator by con-

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

tact with the cylinder. She received no instructions or warning
of any danger. When she was set to work upon the mangle
in October, 1902, the feed board was loose, thereby permitting
clothing occasionally to drop between its edge and the steam
cylinder. This condition continued unchanged until the time
of the plaintiff's injury, and it was not reported or complained
of by her. In the following December she was injured. The
only testimony as to how the injury occurred was given by.
the plaintiff herself, and was stated in the bill of exceptions
as follows:
"A. Why, the morning of the accident nearly every piece
we put in the mangle, Miss Cumberland's end would go in before mine and I would have to push, and my hand cabght
on.

.

.

.

A. The morning of the accident nearly every

piece would catch on Sidney's side before it would catch on
mine; and the table cloth would take my hand right on up with
it. It dropped down between the board and the cylinder, and
when it caught, it carried my hand right on up with it.
A. Well, the linen would drop down between the board and
the cylinder and you had to push it up. Q. Do you mean us to
understand that you put your hand deliberately inside this
finger guard and down into the space betw-en'the feed board
and the cylinder? A. No, sir. Q. How did the linen drop?
A. The linen instead of going in would drop down between the
board and the cylinder and you would push it up, and the
young lady working on the Other side, hers would catch before
mine. Q. You had to get hold of the end in some way to push
it up? A. No, sir; you had to push it up the feed board. Q.
If the edge of the linen you were feeding had dropped down
between the feed board and the cylinder, how could you push
it up? A. You could push it up and it would conic down
wrinkled. Q. If it had dropped down between the feed board
and the cylinder, how could you push it up? A. It dropped
down between the feed board and the cylinder, and when you
pushed it up and it came out of the mangle it would come out
wrinkled. Q. You did not hold the table cloth as it fed into

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

the machine? A. Yes, I had hold of the table cloth. Q. You
pushed the table cloth over the feed board; but you could not
catch hold of it, as a matter of fact? A. I had hold of the table
cloth and was pushing it up and it dropped. And this day it
was worse; every piece we put in it dropped down and we had
to push it up; and as I pushed it. up in some way or other it
took my hand with it. Q. You say it was getting worse?
A. Yes. We had to sprinkle the clothes every day, and this
day we had to sprinkle the clothes more than ever. Q. And
that is the only day you put your hand inside the finger guard?
A. Yes. Q. Why did you put your hand inside then? A.
I didn't put my hand inside. The table cloth pulled it in. My
hand was on the table cloth pushing it up, and the table cloth
caught and it caught my hand with it. Q. On this particular
occasion even you didn't push your hand inside the finger
guard? A. No, sir; I didn't put my hand under the finger
guard until the table cloth pulled it under. Q. So the table
cloth had hold of your hand before your hand had gotten past
the finger guard? A. The table cloth dropped and I gave it
another push to make it catch, and after it dropped it caught
it on the cylinder and carried my hand right with it. Q. So
that your hand had gone past the finger guard before the table
cloth caught it and carried it into the mangle?. A. The table
cloth took my hand right along With it. Q. What I want to
find out is the exact time that this table cloth became wrapped
around your hand in such a way as to take it into that mangle?
A. The table cloth dropped. Sidney's end had gone in and my
end had dropped, and I pushed it and it'caught. As soon as
the table cloth-it caught, and after it caught in some way it
took my hand right up with it. Q. Where did it drop? Between the feed board and the cylinder? A. Between the feed
board and the cylinder. Q. And it was not until after it
dropped that your hand was caught? A. It dropped between
the feed board and. the 'cylinder, and I had my hand on the
feed board to'make it catch, and my hand caught and went
right up with it."

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
211 U. R.

Opinion Qf the Court.

The plaintiff offered the testimony of expert witnesses, who
said that no kind of laundry work required the finger guard
to be more than one-half an inch above the feed board. Apart
from the extent of the injuries, this was all the evidence tending to sustain plaintiff's cause of action. The presiding judge
directed a verdict to be, returned for the defendant. Upon
exceptions this ruling was sustained by the Court of Appeals,
and the case was brought here by writ of error.
The evidence tended to show that in one respect at least the
machine operated by the plaintiff was out of repair. The feed
board was loose, thereby permitting the fabric to be ironed
sometimes to drop between it and the steam cylinder. How
far this was a cause contributing to the injury does not clearly
appear, and at the bar it was not relied upon as the cause of
the plaintiff's injury. This was the prudent attitude, because
the ill-repair of the machine in this respect, and the effect upon
its operation, were in existence from the first and well known.
to the plaintiff, and she failed to report or complain of the defect to her employer. Washington &c. Railroad Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570. The single ground upon which the
plaintiff's right to recover was rested was that the guard rail
was adjusted at an excessive height, so that it would permit
the plaintiff's hand to be drawn between. it and the feed board
up to the point of engagement between the revolving cylinder
and rollers. The judgment of the court below went against
the plaintiff, upon the theory that she assumed the risk of this
danger, and that is the question to be considered. One who
understands and appreciates the permanent conditions of machinery, premises and the like, and the danger, which arises
therefrom, or by the reasonable use of his senses, having in
view his age, intelligence and experience, ought to have understood and appreciated them, and voluntarily undertakes
to work under those conditions and to expose himself to those
dangers, cannot recover against his employer for the resulting
injuries. Upon that state of facts the law declares that he
assumes the risk. The rule is too well settled to warrant an
VOL. ccxi-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

211 U. S.

extensive discussion of it or an attempt to analyze the different
reasons upon which it has been held to be justified. The rule
of assumption of risk has been thought by many a hard one
when applied to the complicated conditions of modern industry, so largely conducted by the aid of machinery propelled by irresistible and merciless mechiical power, and the
criticism frequently has been made that the imperative need
of employment leaves to the workman no real freedom of choice,
such as the rule assumes. That these considerations have had
an influence is shown by the notorious unwillingness of juries
to apply the rule, and by the legislative modifications of it
which, from time to time, have been -made, as, for instance, by
Congress in the Safety Appliance Law. Schlemmer v. Buffalo,
Rochester &c. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 1. But the common law in
this regard has not been modified in the District of Columbia,
and we have no other duty than to enforce it. No question
has been made in the case at bar that the rule prevails and is
relevant to the facts of this case. The contention, however,
is that as the plaintiff testified in substance that she did not
know and appreciate the danger which she was encountering,
that testimony, with the other facts in the case, raised an issue
for the jury, and that it could not be said, as matter of law,
that the risk had been assumed. This contention is sustained
by a well-considered case. Stager. v. Troy Laundry Co., 38
Oregon, 480. See Fronk v. Evans' Steam City Laundry Co.,
70 Nebraska, 75.
Where the elements and combination out of which the danger
arises are visible it cannot always be said that the danger itself
is so apparent that the employ6 must be held, as matter of
law, to understand, appreciate and assume the risk of it.

Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Swearingen, 196 U. S. 51; Fitzgerald v. Connecticut River Paper Co., 155 Massachusetts, 155.
The visible conditions may have been of"recent origin, and
the danger arising from them may have been obscure. In
such cases, and perhaps others that could be stated, the question of the assumption of the risk is plainly for the jury. But

BUTLER v. FRAZEE.
211 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where the conditions are constant and of long standing, and
the danger is one that is suggested by the common knowledge
which all possess, and both the conditions and the dangers are
obvious to the common understanding, and the employ6 is
of full age, intelligence and adequate experience, and all these
elements of the problem appear without contradiction from
the plaintiff's own evidence, the question becomes one of law
for the decision of the cour. Upon such a state of the evidence
a verdict for the plaintiff cannot be sustained, and it is the
duty of the judge presiding at the trial to instruct the jury
accordingly. Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co., 179 U. S.
658, and cases there cited. The case at bar falls within this
class.
The plaintiff was a person of mature years, intelligent and
of adequate experience. She had worked for some months
upon this particular machine and during that time -it was
always in exactly the same condition in which it was upon
the day of the injury. The elements out of which the danger
arose were plainly visible to her. The employer had no duty,
statutory or otherwise, to use a rail to guard against so obvious
a danger as that arising out of two cylinders in contact with
each other and seen to be revolving inwardly. Hickey v. Taafe,
105 N. Y. 26. We see nothing in the manner of the adjustment
of the guard rail which constituted an ailurcment or was calculated to blind the plaintiff to the danger. The adjustment
of the parts of the machine was kontinually before her eyes.
The danger of being drawn between the cylinder and the
rollers by contact with the cylinder was illustrated to her every
minute of the day by the drawing in of the clothes to be iroled
by contact With the revolving cylinder. The distancebetween
the guard rail and the feed board was constant, and its relation
to the thickness of her hand was apl)arent.

She must have

understood that if her hand became inextricably entangled
with the clothes, as seems from the rather vague testimony of
the plaintiff was the case here, it would be drawn between the
cylinder and receive the injuries which unhappily occurred.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

211 U. S.

We think that it must be said, as matter of law, that she voluntarily assumed the risk of the danger. Tuttle v. Milwaukee
Railway, 122 U. S. 189; Crowley v. Pacific Mills, 148 Massachusetts, 228; Gleason v. Railroad, 159 Massachusetts, 68;
Connolly v. Eldredge, 160 Massachusetts, 566; Lemoine v.
Aldrich, 177 Massachusetts, 89; Burke v. Davis, 191 Massachusetts. 20.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel. KOPEL v.
BINGHAM, POLICE COMMISSIONER OF THE CITY
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OFTHE STA'PE OF NEW YORK.
No. 167.

Argued October 26, 1908.-Decided January 4, 1909.

Under § 17 of the act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, 81, the
governor of Porto Rico has the same power that the governor of
any organized Territory has to issue requisitions for the return of
fugitive criminals under § 5278, Rev. Stat.
While subd. 2, § 2, Art. IV, Const. U. S., refers in terms only to the
States, Congress, by the act of February 12, 1793, c. 7, 1 Stat. 302,
now § 5278, Rev. Stat., has provided for the demand and surrender
of fugitive criminals by governors of Territories as well as of States,
and the power to do so is as complete with Territories as with States.
Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S.642.
Section 5278, Rev. Stat.i will not be construed so as to make territory
of the United States an asylum for criminals, and that section is not
locally inapplicable to Porto Rico within the meaning of § 14 of
the act of April 12, 1900, c.191, 31 Stat. 77, 80.
Porto Rico, although not a Territory incorporated into the United
States, is a completely organized-Territory.
189 N. Y. 124, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

