OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

late jurisdiction in a suit in which the United States were
plaintiffs and appellants, and which was brought in effectuation of the superintending authority of the Government over
the public interests.
We do not think the present appeal comes within the ruling in that case.
ApeaZ dismied.

DE LA YERGNE REFRIGERATING MACHINE COMPANY v. GERMAN SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 45. Argued April 7, 11, 1899. -Decided

November 30, 1S99.

Under the laws of the State of New York, providing for the organization of
manufacturing corporations, such corporations are not authorized to purchase the stock of a rival corporation, for the purpose of suppressing
competition and obtaining the management of such rival.
Unless express permission be given to do so, it is not within the general
powers of a corporation to purchase stock of other corporations for the
purpose of controlling their management.
Where an action is brought upon a contract by a corporation to purchase
such stock for such purpose, it is a good defence that the corporation
was prohibited by statute from entering into it; even though the corporation may be compelled, in an action on quantum meruit, to respond for
the benefit actually received.

TIs was a consolidation of eight actions brought by the
German Savings Institution and seven other plaintiffs, in the
Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, against the De la Vergne
Refrigerating Company and John C. De la Vergne, its president and principal stockholder, pergonally, for a failure to
deliver to plaintiffs certain stock in the Refrigerating Company.
Certain personal property was seized upon attachment issued,
a forthcoming bond given therefor, and the several actions
were afterwards removed to the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Missouri upon the joint petition of the defendants.
In that court the several actions were consolidated and sub-

DE LA VERGNE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST.

41

Argument for Defendants in Error.

mitted upon an agreed statement of facts upon which judgment was entered for the defendants.
Pending the proceedings in the state court, and on May 12,
1896, John C. De la Vergne died, and on November 5, 1896,
his death was suggested to the court, when William C. Richardson, public administrator of the city of St. Louis, entered
his appearance, and with his consent an order was entered reviving each of such actions against him.
From the judgment so entered in the Circuit .Court, a writ
of error was taken from the Circuit Court of Appeals, the
judgment of the court below reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to grant a new trial. 36 U. S. App. 184r.
Amended answers were filed in the lower court, much testimony taken, the cause submitted to the court withouf a
jury, and a judgment entered in favor of the plaintiffs for
$126,849.96.
From this .judgment a writ of error was prosecuted by the
Refrigerating Company, one of the defendants. The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals by an equal division. 49 U. S. App. 777. Whereupon the Refrigerating Company applied for and was allowed a writ of certiorari from
this court.
-Mr. Frederick .-Lehmann and JA6. Charles H. Aldrich for
plaintiff in error, petitioner. .ifr. Charles Nagel was on their
brief.
-Mr.J. M. Wilson and .Mr. Leo Bassieur for defendants in
error. Xr. Eleneiou8 Smith was on their brief.
I. The contract involved in this cause was not ultra vires
the De la Vergne. Company.
(a) The subject-matter of the contract, the thing bargained
for and purchased, was not stock of the Consolidated Company, but its tangible assets, its outstanding accounts and
its good will, subject to the*payments of its debts, and the
custody thereof until such payment, by the Illinois assignee.
German Savings Institution v. De la 7-ergne.e efrigerating
Machine 0o;, 36 U. S. App. 184; S. C., 70 Fed. Rep..146.

OCTOBER TERY, 1899.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

.(b) But if stock of the Consolidated Company was the subject-matter of the purchase by the De la Vergne Company,
the contract was not'ultra vires, because the laws of the State
of New York do not prohibit such purchase, as contended by
the De la Vergne Company, but on the contrary permit it.
Laws N. Y. 1853, c. 331, § 2. Act of June 4. Rev. Stat.
N. Y. 1889, Vol. 3, p. 1961; Laws of 1866, c. 838, §§ 3 and 4;
Rev. Stat. N. Y. 1889, Vol. 3, p. 1967.
II. The contract was not ultra vires as requiring or obligating the De la Vergne Company to increase its capital stock.
The contract itself recites that the De la Vergne Company
was then considering the plan of increasing its stock, and by
the contract it was left optional with said company either to
make such increase and to pay plaintiffs with such increased
issue, or to pay in money.
But, even if the contract had required such increase and the
De ]a Vergne Company had no power to contract therefor
and for the payment in such form, it will nevertheless be compelled to make compensation in some other form; in money.
Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341; Fort Torth City Co. v.
Smith Bridge Co., 151 U. S. 294; State Board of Agriculture
v. Citizens' Street Railway, 47 Indiana, 407; Morawetz on Corporations, § 86.; Missouri Pacific Railway v. Sidell, 35 U. S.
App. 152; Bensiek v. Thomas, 27 U. S. App. 765.
III. The contract was not ultravires the Consolidated Company because it was not a mere combination or coalition for
the purpose of creating a monopoly or trust; but was a legitimate business undertaking. Morawetz, § 212; Herriman v.
.Menzies, 115 California, 16; Allegheny River Oil Creek Co. v.
PennsylvaniaTrans. Co., 83 Penn. St. 160; Whitney Arms Co.
v. Barlow, 63 N. Y. 62; Gasquet v. Crescent City Brg. Co., 49
Fed. Rep. 496; Camden and Atlantic City Railroad v. May's
Landing and Egg Harbor Railroad,48 N. J. Law, 567.
IV. The De la Vergne Company's execution of the contract is fully established.
(a) The answers denying its executions are not verified, and
thereby the execution stands admitted. Rev. Stat. Mo. 1889,
see. 2186.

DE LA VERGNE CO. v. GERMAN SAYINGS INST.

43

Argument for Defendants in Error.

(b)And such admission, by failure to verify, is not merely
with reference to the formal or clerical execution, but includes
the admission of substantial execution. Rothschild v. Fren8dof, 21 Missouri App. 318; Smith Pur'ifrCo. v. ]2embaugh,
21 Missouri App. 390; Beck & Pauli Lithographing Co. v.'
Obert, 54 Missouri App. 240, 246.
(6) The testimony furnished bydefendant§ themselves establishes a ratification of the contract by the De la Yergne
Company, even if the president had no original authority-to
execute it. The corporation paid the services and expenses of
the experts employed to investigate the affairs of the Consolidated Company; the .directors were acquainted with the execution of the contract and the disbursement of these moneys
and made no objection thereto; the by-law of the defendant
corporation gives the president unlimited powers to enter into
contracts on its behalf; within five days after the contract
was executed the defendant company employed the Consolidated Company's former salesman, took charge of its former
NexwYork branch office and entered upon the business of selling machines built upon the Consolidated type or pattern.
(d) The agreed, statement of facts admits the execution of
the contract by both De la Vergne and the De la Vergne
Company.
V. Where a contract admits of two constructions, one of
which results in its validity and the other in its illegality, the
former will be adopted. Shore v. Wilson, 9 Clark & F. 355;
NAoonan v. Bradle., 9 Wall. 394-, 407; Ormes v. Dauchy, 82
N. Y. 443; Curtis v. Gokey, 68 N. Y. 300; Shefleld v. Balmer,
52 Missouri, 474; Crittendenv. French, 21 Illinois, 598; 2 Parsons on Contracts, (8th ed.) 168; Jones on Construction of
Contracts, § 223, 224.
VIL Jungenfeld's executors had power to assign the stockof that estate without an. order of court. At common law
the legal title to the personalty of the deceased passes to
his executor or administrator, who has absolute control and
dominion over the same, with power of alienation; and the
conveyance of the executor or administrator passes good title
to the vendee or assignee. Williams on Executors, (ed. 185§)

OCTOBER TERM,. 1899.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

p. 269; Woerner on American Law of Administration, see.
331; 3 Wait's Act. & Def., 244, and cases cited; Downing v.
Garner, 1 Missouri, 751; (reprint 537); Makepeace v. Moore,
10 Illinois, (5 Gilm.) 474; XcConnell v. Bodon, 7 Illinois,
(2 Gilm.) 640 ; Wralker v. Craig, 18 Illinois, 116; Thornton v.
XeMring, 117 Illinois, 55.
In those States where administration acts have been
adopted the rule is that an executor or administrator selling
personalty without the sanction of the court possessing probate jurisdiction, makes himself answerable for the full value
of the property; but his sale is not void-on the contrary
his bonaftde vendee obtains good title. Administration acts
are in aid, not in exclusion, of the common law powers of the
legal representative. Schouler's Executors & Administrators,
(2d ed.) § 346; Smith's Probate Law, (Mass.) 111; Earth v.
Heddlestone, 2 Bay's Rep. (S.0.) 321; Mead v. Byington, 10
Vermont, 116; Sherman v. Willett, 42 N. Y. 146; Dickson
v. Crawley, 112 N. C. 629; XAfinuse v. Cox, 5 Johns. Ch.441;
Wynns v. AZexander, 2 Dev. and B. Eq. Rep. 58.
An exception to this rule seems to exist in Missouri with
respect to bonds and promissory notes. The cases of Stagg v.
Green, 47 Missouri, 560; Stagg v. Linnenfe er, 50 Missouri,
336; Chandler v. Stevenson, 68 Missouri, 450; Weilv. Jones,
70 Missouri, 560, merely go to this effect and no further.
State to use of Woylf v. Berning, 74 Missouri, 87, merely
holds that an administrator, de bonis non, may reclaim notes
pledged by his predecessor, for his own purposes, with ore
having notice of that fact and of their true ownership.
These were the cases relied on in the lower court by defendants.
The Missouri administration act provides that executors
or administrators may make compromises with and execute
releases to debtors of the estate, upon orders from the probate court. Yet it has been held that a release without such
direction or sanction will be good, the executor being personally liable for any loss caused by his lack of due care or prudence. 3fosman v. Bender, 80 Missouri, 579; Jacobs v. Jacobs,
99 Missouri, 427.

DE LA. VERGN-E CO. v. GERMAN SAYINGS INST.

45

Argument for "Defendants in Error.

And to this same effect, this court in 3faclay v. Euit. Life
Ass. Soc., 152 U. S. 499.
VII. The will of Jungenfeld in express terms authorized
his executors "to sell, convey and transfer any part or portion of my estate if they deem it for the advantage of those
interested as legatees." Their assignment to defendants was
therefore effectual, both under the will and by reason of their
general legal power.
VIII. Executors may convey title to shares in a corporation organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction. "The
assignee of stock assigned by a foreign executor may compel
the transfer thereof in the courts of the State where the corporation does business." .Afiddlebrook v. Merchant'sBank of
New York, 3 Abb. App. Dec. 295; Same Case on Appeal, 41
Barb. 481; Luce v. Manchester & Lawrence Railroad, 63
N. H. 588; Brown v. San Francisco Gas Light Co., 58 California, 426; Trecothick v. Austin, 4 Mason's 0. 0. :Rep. 16.
IX. The trustees of Jungenfeld's minor son also had power
to assign and transfer the minor's stock to defendants. The
will gave them general power to "manage, control and invest," and it was manifestly the intention of the testator to
confer upon them the power of sale. Such power need not
be granted by express words, but may be inferred where the
intention is apparent. 18 Am. & Eng. Enc., "Powers," 901
and cases collected; Danish v. Disbrow, 51 Texas, 235 ; Orr
v. O'Brien; 55 Texas, 149.
. X. There is no presumption of law that one acting in a
trust capacity has the right to sell.- Persons dealing with a
trustee are put on inquiry and are bound to ascertain for themselves the extent of his power, and what title, if any, they will
obtain by the trustee's conveyance. German Savings Institution v. De la Vergne Machine Co., 36 U. S. App. 184;
Duncan v. Jaud.on, 15 Wall. 165; Mason v. Wait, 5 Illinois,
127, 135; Brewer v. Christian, 9 Illinois App. 57; Harmon
v. Smith, 38 Fed. Rep. 482; Shaw v. 8pencer, 100 Mass. 382;
Wood's A4peal, 92 Penn. St. 379.
XI. An agreement to transfer or assign stock is sufficiently
performed by a delivery or an offer of certificates therefor

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

assigned in blank; Eeller v. Eureka Brick .Machine .Mfg. Co.,
43 Missouri App. 84.
XII. The suggestion made below by defendants that because the Consolidated Company had assigned all of its property for the benefit of its creditors, and that therefore neither
it nor its stockholders possessed any right which could be
conveyed by the agreement of April 16, 1891, is without
merit.
Under the Illinois assignment laws a right of reconveyance
from the assignee existed on an adjustment with a majority
in number and amount of the creditors; and it was this right
or equity which defendants purchased and the agreement expressly so recites. In addition thereto defendants also secured
the good will and trade of the, Consolidated Company and
the express covenant of its stockholders, plaintiffs herein.
Defendants got all for which they bargained,
XIII. The special finding of facts made by the court below is conclusive on appeal as to the matters found. Stanley
v. Albany County, 121 U. S. 535; Allen v. St. Louis Bk.,
120 U. S. 20; Republican River Bridge Co. v. Kansas Pacifto Railroad,92 U. S. 315.
Where a cause is tiied upon waiver of jury and the court
makes a special finding of the facts, the only question upon the
writ of error is the sufficiency of the facts found to support
the judgment. The appellate court will not inquire whether
the evidence was sufficient to support the findings.
Nor is error in the findings of fact subject to revision, if
there was any evidence upon which the findings could be
made. Hathaway v. Bank of Cambridge, 134 U. S. 494.
And special findings of facts by the court need only state the
ultimatefacts, not the evidence. Ugiion Silver Xining Co. v.
Taylor, 100 U. S. 37.
And a refusal of the trial court to find incidental facts,
amounting only to evidence bearing upon the ultimate facts
to be found, is not a proper subject of review. Hathaway v.
Bank of Cambridge,134 U. S. 494.
XIV. The refusal of the trial court where a jury has been
waived to givie abstract declarations of law, is not error.

DE LA. YERGXTE CO. v. GERM"T SAYINGS INST.

47

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mfercantile 3iutuaZ I2urance Company v. Folsom, 18 Wall.
237.
XV. The contract in question, providing as it did for a distribution of $100,000 to the various plaintiffs, in the proportion
in which they held stock in the Consolidated Company,
amounted to a promise to each; and each was therefore war-.
ranted in bringing a separate action for the proportionate
amount due him. A general action would have been improper.
Bliss on Code Pleadings, § 3; Taylor v. Coon, 48 N. W. Rep.
123; .Finneyv. B'rant, 19 :Missouri, 42; Cross v. Williams, 72
Missouri, 577.
XVI. Neither party to a contract can rescind without placing the other in 8tatu quo; nor when sued for the purchase
price successfully defend while retaining its benefits. Ger.
Savings Institution v. -Dela Vergne Ref. laoh. Co., 36 U. S.
App. 184, and cases there cited; Story on Sales, § 427;.
Bigelow on Estoppel, (5th ed.) 552; 3 Wait's Act. & Def., 483;
ManqteZAd v. Tpigg, 113 Mass. 350; .Millerv. Tifany, 1 Wall.
298; Andrews v. BHensler, 6. Wall. 254; Beeves v. Corning, 51
Fed. Rep. 774; Union Nat. Bank v. -latthews, 98 U. S. 621;
Washburn ill Co. v. Bartlett, 54 N. W. Rep. 544.
XVII. De la Vergne having entered his general appearance in these causes in his lifetime, upon his death the suits
were lawfully revived against the administrator of his estate
in Missouri. Sects. 955 and 956, Rev. Stat. T. S.; sec. 2196,
Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1889, ch. 33, art. 8; sec. 1995, Rev. Stat.
-Missouri,1889, ch. 33, art. 1; Gamble v. -Daugherty, 71 Missouri, 599.
If error was committed in entering judgment de bonis testatori8 against De la Vergne's administrator, he having failed
to appeal or sue out a writ of error, plaintiff in error, De la
Vergne Company, cannot avail itself of such error against its
co-defendant, nor can such judgment preclude any rights which
the defendant company may have against De la Vergue's
estate. They are not adversary parties in the pending suits.
oMoMYahan v. Geiger, 73 Missouri, 145; State Bank of St. Louis
v. Bartle, 114 Missouri, 276; Price v. Lederer, 33 Missouri
App. 426; Vol. 12, Am. and English Eno., p. 83; Century

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Digest, § 3584, § 3589, Infants; § 3590, Principals and Sureties.
MR. TusTIcmE Biowx, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question in this case is whether, under the
laws of New York providing for the organization of manufacturing corporations, such corporations are authorized to purchase the stock of a rival corporation for the purpose of
suppressing competition and obtaining the management of
such corporation.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: The Consolidated Ice Machine Company (hereinafter referred to as the
Consolidated Company) was a corporation organized under the
laws of Illinois, and was engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling refrigerating and ice-making machines. The
entire amount of issued stock of such corporation was $100,000,
held in various proportions by the .plaintiffs in this consolidated cause. Having-become insolvent, the company, on
October 14, 1890, made an assignment under the general laws
of Illinois, for the benefit of creditors, to one Jenkins, who, at
the date of the contract sued upon, was engaged in winding up
its business. The assignment on its face purported to convey
to Jenkins and his successors in trust the entire real and personal "property and effects of every kind and description"
belonging to the corporation, "or in which it has any right or
interest," the same being fully and particularly enumerated
and described in an inventory, which, however, does not appear in the record. Its assets consisted mainly of a plant for
the manufacture of refrigerating and ice-making machines in
Chicago; of patent rights, outstanding accounts, and the good
will of its business, which appears to have been an extensive
one.
It is asserted by the plaintiffs, who are stockholders in this
company, that the assets exceeded in value the liabilities of
the company, and that the company was not in reality insolvent, but had assumed contracts to such an extent that, with
its limited capital, it was unable to carry them out.

DE LA VERGKE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST.

49

Opinion of the Court.

However this may be, subsequently to the assignment, and
on April 16, 1891, the company itself, by its president as party
of the first part, and its stockholders as parties of the second
part, entered into an agreement with the De la Vergne Refrigerating Machine Company, a corporation organized under
the laws of New York, (hereinafter called the Refrigerating
Company,) as party of the third part, and John C. De ]a
Vergne, of the State of New York, president of that company,
as party of the fourth part. This agreement is the basis of
the action. After reciting that the Refrigerating' Company
was willing to acquire such right as the Consolidated Company and its stockholders could assign in and to the assets of
such company; that under the laws of Illinois the Consolidated
Company was not entitled to the possession of its assets in the
hands of the assignee until its obligations had been discharged;
that the Refrigerating Company was incorporated with a stock
of $350,000 when its assets were worth $1,400,000; and that
its stockholders were considering a plan of increasing the stock
to $2,000,000, of N hich $1,000,000 was to be turned over to the
Consolidated Company under the terms of the agreement:
Therefore, in view of these facts, the Consolidated Company
and its stockholders covenanted with the Refrigerating Company and its president, De la Vergne, to-sell and convey unto
the Refrigerating Company all their right, title and interest'
in and to *theassets of the party of the first part, subject to
the payment of its obligations, and subject to the custody
thereof in the legal custocian, R. E. Jenkins, assignee as aforesaid.
The second clause contained a covenant to issue to the stockholders of the Consolidated Company fully paid up stock in
the Refrigerating Company to the amount of $100,000 in certain specified proportions to each stockholder.
By. the fourth clause, the stockholders agreed within ten
days from the date of the agreement to assign to De la
Vergne, for the benefit of- the Refrigerating Company, all
stock of the insolvent company which had been issued, and
which they guaranteed had been paid in full; and wthin sixty
days thereafter the Refrigerating Company and its president
VOL. CLXXv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed to issue and deliver to the stockholders of the Consolidated Company stock in the Refrigerating Company to the
amount of $100,000.
By the fifth clause, the stockholders in the Consolidated
Company covenanted to accept in lieu of the stock of the Refrigerating Company, $100,000 in cash, at the option of De la
Vergne, the president of the company.
By the seventh clause, the stockholders of the Consolidated
Company agreed that for a period of ten years they would
not enter into or become engaged in the selling or making of
refrigerators or ice machines, directly or indirectly, within.
the United States, excepting the State of Montana.
Within the ten days provided by the agreement, certificates
representing one thousand shares of the stock of the Consolidated Company, with written assignments executed by the
parties who held the certificates, were delivered to De la
Vergne, although ninety-five of these shares were held by
P. 1. Lingenfelder and Leo Rassieur as executors, and ninety
were held by them as trustees under the will of one Jungenfeld, deceased. These shares were assigned by the parties without an order authorizing them to do so from the probate court
of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, in which the estate of
Jungenfeld was in the process of administration. Two days
after the receipt of these certificates De la Vergne's attorney
wrote to Mr. Rassieur, calling his attention to certain technical defects, which were immediately remedied by suitable
instruments of further assurance. No objection was then
made that the assignments of the executors and trustees
were insufficient for want of an order of the probate court
authorizing the same.
In the following July demands were several times made by
Mr. Rassieur for himself and his associates for the $100,000 in
stock or money stipulated by the contract, but no response
was received until September, when Mr. Fitch, acting for the
Refrigerating Company, announced for the first time that the
defendants declined to carry out their part of the contract.
The reasons for the refusal do not seem to have been substantial ones. The letter contained an announcement that Mr.

DE LA VERGNE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST.

51

Opinion of the Court.

De la Vergne's counsel was ready to return the papers sent
to him to whomsoever was legally entitled to their custody.
There was no reconveyance to the Consolidated Company of
whatever was covered by the contract, the covenant of its
stockholders to refrain from transacting business for ten years
was never released, and none of the certificates and assignments of stock were ever delivered back. It appeared, however, that in the meantime the Refrigerating Company had
secured the former New York office of the Consolidated Company; had employed its agents in making contracts with former
customers of that company, which contracts were taken in the
name of such agent. He was, however, furnished with the
means by which they were carried out, and assignments were
taken from him, which practically secured the good will of
the company, although the Chicago assets were allowed to go
to sale by the assignee. At this sale Mr. De la Vergne was
present and offered for the tangible assets the sum of $25,000.
In their answer as amended, defendants set up as justification for a refusal to perform the contract that no assets of the
Consolidated Company ever came into the possession of the
defendants, since all, including the good will, had been transferred to Jenkins, the assignee, for the benefit of its creditors,
and remained in his possession and control until they were
disposed of under the direction of the probate court for the
benefit of creditors, and that they were insufficient to discharge
the liabilities; that the contract sued upon purporting to be
executed on behalf of the Refrigerating Company by De la
Fergne, its president, was executed without authority; that
no benefit of any kind ever accrued to the company under the
contract; that the company never received any of the consideration moving to it under the contract; that it never received
any of the assets of the Consolidated Company, nor any of the
stock; that it never in any manner ratified or approved the
contract, but on the contrary rejected the same, and that
the plaintiffs well knew at the time of making the contract
that De la Vergne had no power or authority to bind the
Refrigerating Company; that the defendants notified the
plaintiffs that they would not be. bound by the contract, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that such rejection of the contract was acquiesced in by the
'plaintiffs, and that relying upon such acquiescence the defendants abandoned all interest in the Consolidated Company; that
the contract was in reality for the stock of the Consolidated
Company, and'that the Refrigerating Company was not authorized by its charter, by the laws of New York or of Illinois, to
purchase such stock, and that the agreement was ultra Vires;
and further, that the Refrigerating Company had no authority
to stipulate for an increase in its capital stock, as was attempted
under the contract, and that the contract was against public
policy and wholly void.
1. The main defence pressed upon our consideration is one
which does not seem to have been called to the attention of
the Circuit Court, and one upon which the Judges of the Circuit
Court of Appeals were equally divided in opinion. It is that
the president of the Refrigerating Company had no authority
to sign the contract in question, and that the agreement itself
was ultra vires the corporation.
As the general assignment to Jenkins, executed October 14,
1890, was most sweeping in its terms, and included all the
real and personal property and effects of every kind and
description belonging to the corporation, or in which it had
any right or interest, it was doubtless sufficient to pass the
good will of the business, which was an incident either to the
premises, to the name of the corporation or to the tangible
property with which the business was carried on. Churton
v. Douglas, 1 Johns. (Eng.) Chancery, 174, 188; Xenendae2 v.
-olt, 128 U. S. 514; letropolitanBank v. St. Louls Dipatch
Co., 149 U. S.436; Willett v. Blanford, 1 Rare, 253; Wedderburn v. Wedderburn, 22 Beavan, 84; Bradburyv. Dickens,
27 Beavan, 53; Williams v. Wilson, 4 Sand. Ch. 379; Sheu1pard v. Boggs, 9 Nebraska, 257; Wallingford v. Burr, 17
Nebraska, 137.
This was evidently the view taken by the assignee, since he
subsequently advertised the good will of the business for sale,
and sold the same under an order of the court to Clarence
A. Knight and Otto C. Butz, who afterward sold the same,
including certain of the assets, to John Featherstone's Sons.

DE LA VERGNE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST.

53

Opinion of the Court.

-It is difficult, even if the contract were legally executed, to
see what assets of value belonging to the Consolidated Company passed to the Refrigerating Company under it, except
perhaps the possibility that the assets would prove more than
sufficient to pay the debts; or, that a settlement might be
effected with a majority in number and amount of the creditors, when, under the laws of Illinois, the assignor would be
entitled to a reconveyance and redelivery of the assigned
assets. In such case the good will would doubtless return
with the other assets to the assignor, i.e. the corpotation, but
not to the stockholders, and the right to sue for a breach of
the contracl would belong to the corporation, or its assignee.
There was also a covenant that the Consolidated Company
would not engage in a similar business within ten years from
the date of the contract. The Refrigerating Company, however, did not avail itself of this opportunity to compromise
with the creditors of the Consolidated Company, but allowed
the assignee to dispose of the assets, which, on a forced sale,
lacked $150,000 of being sufficient to pay the debts of the
Consolidated Company.
In addition to this, however, there was no corporate action
taken authorizing any such conveyance by the corporation,
and such conveyance would not, under the laws of Illinois
which conform in this particular to the general law, be within
the power of the stockholders, even though they all signed it,
without formal action at a meeting held for that purpose.
Seller8 v. Greer, 172 Illinois, 549 ; EoykinM v. RoseClare Zead
Co., 72 Illinois, 373; Humpreys v. M2Kisook, 140 U. S. 304,
312; llemong v. Simmons, 124 Indiana, 199; Smith v. Hurd,
12 :Metc. (Mass.) 371, 385; England v. Dear'orn,141 Mass. 590;
Cook on Stockholders, § 709.
It is true that the president of the Consolidated Company
assumed to sign the contract as president, and to bind the
company, but it is scarcely necessary to say that the president
of a corporation has no power as such to make a general conveyance of the assets of the corporation without at least the
assent of the board of directors. England v. Dearborn,141
Mass. 590; Titus v. Cairo & F'ltom Railroad, 37 N. J. Law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

98, 102; AfoCullough v. -Moss, 5 Denio, 567; Fultom Bank v.

_ew York &c.Canal Co., 4 Paige, 127, 134; Walworta coznty
Bank v. Farmers' loan & Tpust Co., 14 Wisconsin, 325;
Stokes v. T.J.Pottery Co., 46 N. J. Law, 237; Morawetz on
Corp. § 537; 4 Thomp. on Corp. § 4622.
The stockholders not only assumed to convey the property
of the corporation without title therdto as well as without the
requisite authority so to do, but, acting as individuals, they
sold "all their right, title and interest in and to the assets" of
the corporation, "subject to the payment of its obligations,
and subject to the custody thereof in the legal custodian,
IR.E. Jenkins, assignee as aforesaid." As this transfer was no
broader in its terms than those employed in the assignment by
the company to Jenkins, and as the stockholders in any event
would not have the power to transfer the assets of the corporation, this sale could operate only upon their stock; and that
this was the intention is evident from the fourth clause of the
contract, by which the stockholders.agreed, within ten days
from the date of the contract, to assign to De la Yergne all
the stock of the Consolidated Company which had been issued, and which they guaranteed had been paid in full, and
also by the fact that the certificates for such stock were all
assigned by the holders and forwarded to De la Yergne. But
again, it is difficult to see what the Refrigerating Company
gained by this transfer of stock. Doubtless it gave them the
control of the Consolidated Company, but as that company
had assigned everything to Jenkins, including the good will,
there was nothing left of value in the ownership of the stock.
Apparently it could only operate upon the possibility that, by
some favorable turn of fortune, the assets might prove more
than sufficient to pay the debts, and thus the stock would
become of-some real value. However this may be, it is quite
evident that one of the main objects of the transfer was to get
possession of the stock and the right to use the name of the
Consolidated Company, assuming that this did not pass to
the assignee as part of the good will of the business.
But as the powers of corporations, created by legislative
act, are limited to such as the act expressly confers, and the

DE LA VERGIXE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST. 55
Opinion of the Court.

enumeration of these implies the exclusion of all others, it
follows that, unless express permission be given to do so, it is
not within the general powers of a corporation to purchase
the stock of other corporations for the purpose of controlling
their management. First Natona Bank v. .NationalExchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122,128; Sumner v. .arcy, 3 Wood &
Minot, 105; Morawetz on Corp. sec. 431; 1 Thompson on
Corp. § 1102; People v. Chicago Gas Tru8t Co., 130 Illinois,
268; Xfilbank v. .'tew York, Lake Erie & Wster Railroad,
64 How. Pr. 20; 3echanic' &c. Bank v. -feriden Co., 24
Connecticut, 159.
Not only is this true as a general rule, but by the law of
the State of New York, under which this corporation was
organized, i.e. "An act to authorize the formation of corporations for manufacturing, mining, mechanical and chemical
purposes," passed February 17, 1848, it was declared in section eight that "it shall not be lawful for such company to
use any of their funds for the purchase of any stock in any
other corporation." This language is clear and explicit, and
evidently covers purchases of stock in other corporations,
,
whether engaged in the same or different business.
In this connection, however, our attention is called to an
.act passed by the legislature of New York, June 7, 1853,
(chapter 333,) amendatory of the act of 1848, the second section of which enacts that" the trustees of such company may
purchase mines, manufactories and other property necessary
for their business, and issue stock to the amount of the value
thereof in payment therefore." The position of the plaintiffs
in this connection is that, under the authority to purchase
"other property necessary for their business," it was competent for manufacturing corporations to purchase the stock
of other similar corporations. But we do not so read the act.
Its evident object was to permit manufacturing corporations
to purchase mines from which they could extract their own
ore, or manufactories of raw material, such as pig iron or
lumber, which could furnish to them material to be worked
up into their own products; and in case such purchases involved a larger outlay than their present :resources would

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

justify, to issue new stock "to the amount of the value thereof
in payment therefor." But there is nothing to indicate that
the legislature intended to authorize them to purchase the
stock of competing corporations, or corporations engaged in
other business. It is only property necessary for their own
current business they were authorized to purchase.
Another act amending the general corporation act of 1848,
passed April 28, 1866, (chapter 838,) was intended for a similar
purpose. By section three it was enacted that "It shall be
lawful for any manufacturing company heretofore or hereafter organized under the provisions of this act or the act
hereby amended, to hold stock in the capital of any corporation engaged in the business of mining, manufacturing or
transporting such materials as are required in the prosecution
of the business of such company, so long as they shall furnish
or transport such materials for the use of such company, and
for two years thereafter and no longer; and the trustees of
such company shall have the same power with respect to the
purchase of such stock and issuing stock therefor as are now
given by law with respect to the purchase of mines, manufactories and other property necessary to the business of
manufacturing companies. But the capital stock of such
company shall not be increased without the consent of the
owners of two thirds of the stock, to be obtained as provided
by sections twenty-one and twenty-two of the act hereby
amended."
The object of this act was evidently much the same as that
of the prior act of 1853, that is, to enable manufacturing
corporations to produce their own ore and manufacture their
own raw materials. To meet the exigencies of this statute
it is necessary that the company, whose stock is purchased,
should at the time of the purchase be engaged in the business
of mining, manufacturing or transporting such materials as
are required in the prosecution of the business of the purchasing company; and the right is limited to such time as
they shall furnish or transport such materials for the use of
such company, and for two years thereafter. It clearly has
no -application to a case where a manufacturing company pur-

DE LA YERGNE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST.

57

Opinion of the Court.

chases the stock of an insolvent rival concern which has
ceased to do business, and whose stock is bought for the evident purpose of preventing a reorganization, and of obtaining
its patronage.
In: the Revised Statutes of New York of 1889, c. 18, vol. 3,
p. 1959, there is also an act, to which our attention is called
by a supplemental brief, permitting manufacturing companies
to increase or diminish their capital stock to any amount
which may be sufficient and proper for the purposes of the
corporation, and also to extend their business to any other
manufacturing business subject to the provisions of the act.
That neither of these acts were intended to give authority
to corporations to purchase stock of other corporations engaged in the same business is evident from a subsequent act
approved June 7,1890, to take effect May 1, 1891, the fortieth
section of whichprovides that", . . no corporation shall use
any of its funds in the purchase of any stock of its own or any
other corporation, unless the same shall have been bona fde
pledged, hypothecated or transferred to it, by way of security
for, or in satisfaction or part satisfaction of, a debt previously
contracted in the course of its business, or shall be purchased
by it at sales upon judgments, orders or decrees which shall
le obtained for such debts or in the prosecution thereof. Any
domestic corporation transacting business in this State, and
also in other States or foreign countries, may invest its funds
in the stocks, bonds or securities of other corporations owning
lands in this State or other States, if dividends have been
paid on such stocks continuously for three years immediately
before such loans are made, or if the interest on such bonds
or securities is not in default, and such stock, bonds and securities shall be continuously of a market value twenty per cent
greater than the amount loaned or continued thereon."
Had the former acts given the unlimited authority to purchase insisted upon by the plaintiffs, this act would have been
entirely unnecessary, and instead of enlarging the power previously possessed, would have operated as a restriction upon
it. That this act of 1890 does not assist the plaintiffs is evident not only from the fact that the act did not take effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

until after the contract was made, but from the further fact
that it merely authorizes corporations to invest their funds in
the stocks, bonds or securities of other corporations if dividends have been paid for three years before the loans are
made; or if the interest on their securities is not in default,
and such securities are worth twenty per cent greater than
the amount loaned thereon. This act evidently refers to loans
and not to purchases, since the section expressly provides that
no corporation shall use its funds in the purchase of any stock,
either of its own or any other corporation, unless by way of
security for antecedent debts.
The truth is, that the legislature of New York, instead of
repealing the prohibitory clause in the original act of 1848,
concerning the purchase of stock in other corporations, has
modified it but slightly, by slow degrees, and in special cases,
to enable a manufacturing corporation to control more perfectly its own legitimate business operations, and has thereby
manifested the more clearly its intention to preserve the
original inhibition.
Our conclusion upon this branch of the case is that, as the
main, if not the sole, object of the purchase from the plaintiffs
was to acquire their stock in the Consolidated Company, such
purchase was ultra vires the Refrigerating Company.
2. Is this defence available to the Refrigerating Company?
Whatever doubts might have been once entertained as to the
power of corporations to set up the defence of ultra vires to
defeat a recovery upon an executed contract, the rule is now
well settled, at least in this court, that where the action is
brought upon the illegal contract, it is a good defence that
the corporation was prohibited by statute from entering into
such contract, although in an action upon a quantum meruit it
may be compelled to respond for the benefit actually received.
The earliest case in which this doctrine is distinctly laid
down is that of Pearce v. -Madison& IndianapolisRailroad,
21 How. 441, in which it appears that two railroad companies,
which had been consolidated, gave their promissory notes in
payment for a steamboat to run in connection with the railroads. It was -held that, as there was no authority in the

DE LA VTERGIE CO. v. GERMAN SAVINGS INST. 59
Opinion of the Court.

railroad companies to engage in running steamboats, there
could be no recovery on the notes, and that as the plaintiff
was not the owner of the boat and had sued upon the notes
as an indorsee, there could be no recovery. The same doctrine
has been applied to leases ultra vires a corporation, and it
has been uniformly held that there could be no recovery upon
the lease itself, though there might be in an action for use and
occupation of the property. Pittsburgh,Cincinnati&c.Railway v. Keokuk & -HamiltonBridge Co., 131 U. S. 371, 384;
Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139
U. S. 24, 48; S. C., 171 U. S. 138; McCormick v. Market
Bank, 165 U. S. 538, 550; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.
71; California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362; .2lfarble Co.
v. Harvey, 92 Tennessee, 116; Union Pacific Railway v.
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Co., 163 U. S.
564.
The doctrine that no recovery can be had upon the contract
is based upon the theory that it is for the interest of the
public that corporations should not transcend the limits of
their charters; that the property of stockholders should not
be put to the risk of engagements which they did not undertake; that if the contract be prohibited by statute every one
dealing with the corporation is bound to take notice of the
restrictions in its charter, whether such charter be a private
act or a general law under which corporations of this class are
organized. Zabriskie v. Cleveland, Columbus &a. Railroad,
23 HEow. 381, 398; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71;
Pennsylvania Co. v. St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad, 118 U. S. 290, 630; Oregon Railway Co. v. Oregonian
Railway Co., 130 U. S. 1, 25; Railway Companies v. JAeokuk
Bridge Co., 131 U. S. 371, 384.
As the action in this case is upon the contract, and as the
contract was prohibited by the charter of the Refrigerating
Company, there can be no recovery upon it.
The difficulty with the position of the plaintiffs in this case
is this: If the purchase of the stock was the main object of
the contract the consideration was an illegal one, and the
promise of the Refrigerating Company to furnish its own

OCTOBER' TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

stock in payment was ultra vires. If, upon the other hand,
the object of the contract was to obtain the assets and good
will of the Consolidated Company upon payment of its debts,
then the promise of the Refrigerating Company to pay the
plaintiffs therefor was without consideration, since the assets
were the property of the Consolidated Company and not of
its stockholders, and anything realized by the sale of such
assets belonged to the company or its assignee, and should be
devoted first to the payment of its debts. If there were anything of value beyond the control of the stock which passed
to the Refrigerating Company under the contract, the assignee
could not be dispossessed of it until all the debts were paid or
compromised, when it would revert to the corporation but not
to the plaintiffs. Their title to sue must rest upon their
ownership of the stock, and if the defence of ultra vires be
sustained, we know of no theory upon which the plaintiffs
can recover. It certainly cannot be true that the plaintiffs
can take to themselves the hundred thousand dollars stipulated by this contract and leave creditors of the corporation
unpaid to the extent of $150,000.
The judgment'of the Circuit Court of A.ppeals and of the
Circuit Court must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
.71issouriwith directions to grant a new trial.
Mv[R. JUSTICE

BREwER, and

Mt.

JUSTICE MOKENNA

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. CONWAY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.No. 13. Argued and submitted January 12, 1899.-Decided October 30,1699.

The act of Congress of December 22, 1858, 11 Stat. 374, confirming a grant
of pueblos to Indians, operated to release to the Indians all the title of
the United States to the land covered by it as effectually as if it contained in terms a grant de novo; and such action of Congress is not subject to judicial review.

