WHITCOMB v. SMITHSON.
Statement of the Case.

necessary effect in law of a judgment, which is silent upon
the question, is the denial of a claim or right which might
have been involved therein, but which in fact was never in
any way set up or spoken of." 173 U. S. 198, 199, 200.
We are confined then to the only Federal questions which
this record presents, and in disposing of these, as we have,
no opinion is intimated on the contention that the judgment
was erroneous because the assessment, in effect, included the
entire capital stock of plaintiff in error as a consolidated
Judgment c jred.
corporation.

WHITCOMB v. SMITHSON.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 150. Submitted December 4,1899.-Decided January 8, 1900.

On the facts, as stated below, it is held that the action of the Circuit Court
in remanding the cause after its removal on the first application is not
open to revision on this writ of error; and that, as the state court did
not err in denying the second application, the motion to affirm must be
sustained, as the question of the effect of that remanding order gave
color for the motion to dismiss.

THis was an action brought in the District Court of Ramsay
County, Minnesota, by John A. Smithson against the Chicago
Great Western Railway Company, and H. F. Whitcomb and
Howard Morris, receivers of the Wisconsin Central Company,
to recover for personal injuries while he was serving the
Chicago Great Western Railway Company as a locomotive
fireman, in a collision between the lpcomotive on which he
was at work and another locomotive operated by Whitcomb
and Morris, as receivers of the Wisconsin Railway Company,
appointed by the United States Circuit Courts for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and the District of Minnesota. The
Chicago Great Western Railway Company answered the complaint, and the receivers filed a petition for the removal of the
cause into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis-

OCTOBER TERXI, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

trict of Minnesota setting up diverse citizenship, and that they
were officers of the United States courts; that the controversy
was separable, and that the railway company was fraudulently
*made a party for the sole purpose of preventing the removal
of. the cause. -lPlaintif answered the petition and asserted
that the company was made party defendant in good faith,
and not for that purpose. An order of removal was entered
and the cause sent to the Circuit Court, and thereafterwards
that court, on hearing on rule to show cause, remanded it to
the District Court of Ramsay County. Defendants Whitcomb
and Morris being in default, it was stipulated between plaintiff
and themselves that in consideration that plaintiff allowed
them to answer, plaintiff should have a trial of the cause at
the June term, 1896, of the court, and further "in case of a
final judgment in said action in favor of said plaintiff against
said receivers, that the receivers will not oppose the allowance
of the same before the master in chancery." Whitcomb and
Morris thereupon filed their answer.
The case came on for trial on the morning of April 20,
1897, when Whitcomb and Morris asked leave to file an
amended answer, setting up that the court was without jurisdiction because the cause was pending in the Circuit Court.
The application was denied, and said defendants excepted.
The trial proceeded, and after the testimony was closed, on
April 21, counsel for the Chicago Great Western Railway
Company moved that the jury be instructed to return a verdict in behalf of that defendant, which motion the court
granted. Thereupon the receivers asked permission to file a
petition for removal supplemental to the petition already on
file, and proffer of petition and bond being treated as made,
the .court denied the application, and exception was taken.
On the morning of April 22 the court instructed the jury to
return a verdict in favor of the Chicago Great Western Railway Company, which was done, and thereupon the case went
to the jury, which returned a verdict on April 23 against Whitcomb and Morris as receivers, and assessed plaintiff's damages.
Motion for new trial having been made and overruled, judg-"
ment was entered on the verdict, and was subsequently affirmed

WHITCOMB v. SMITHSON.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Supreme Court of Minnesota on appeal. 71 Minnesota,
216. The pending writ of error having been issued, motions
to dismiss or affirm were submitted.
-Y'. John A. Lovely for the motions.
.Xr. ll'oward .7orrisand .X6. Thomas H. Gill opposing.
MR. CHIEi JusTice FuLLri after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The action of the Circuit Court in remanding the cause after
its removal on the first application is not open to revision on
this writ of error. .Missouri Pacific Railway v. -Fitzgerald,
160 U. S. 556. And if the state co urt did not err in denying
the second application, the motion to affirm must be sustained,
as we think the question of the effect of that remanding order
gave color for the motion to dismiss.
The record shows that the Circuit Court granted the motion
to remand on the authority of Thompson v. Chicago, St. Paul
&c. Railway, 60 Fed. Rep. 773, in which case it was ruled
that there was no separable controversy; and its judgment
covered the question of fact as to the good faith of the joinder.
The contention here is that when the trial court determined
to direct a verdict in favor of the Chicago Great Western
Railway Company, the result was that the case stood as if
the receivers had been sole defendants, and that they then
acquired a right of removal which was not concluded by the
previous action of the Circuit Court. This might have. been
so if when the cause was called for trial in the state court
plaintiff had discontinued his action against the railway.company, and thereby elected to prosecute it against the receivers
solely, instead of prosecuting it on the joint cause of action
set up in the complaint against all the defendants. Powers
v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 169 U. S. 92. But that is
not this case. The joint liability was insisted on here to the
close of the trial, and the non-liability of the railway company
was ruled in invitum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

As stated by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, "it was
alleged in the complaint that both of these defendants operated locomotives and trains over tracks owned by the Chicago and Northern Pacific Railway Company, in the city of
Chicago, and it was on this track that the collision occurred.
The negligence alleged on the part of the receivers was in
allowing their locomotive to stop and remain standing in the
night time at a certain place on their track, and when there
was imminent danger of a collision, without giving proper or
any signals of having so stopped; while the negligence on
the part of the Chicago Great Western Company was alleged
to be an omission and failure on its part to adopt or establish
proper or any rules for the giving of warning signals by its
own or other locomotives or trains while being operated on
said track." The case was prosecuted by plaintiff accordingly,
and at the close of the evidence a motion was made to instruct
the jury to return a verdict in behalf of the railway company
because the evidence did not sustain the allegations of the
complaint as to the negligence of that defendant, and the
court granted the motion on that ground in view of the rules of
the company, which it found "to aiiaply cover all the contingencies arising in the prosecution of the various duties incident
to railroad service at the point."
This was a ruling on the merits, and not a ruling on the
question of jurisdiction. It was adverse to plaintiff, and without his assent, and the trial court rightly held that it did not
operate to make the cause then removable and thereby to
enable the other defendants to prevent plaintiff from taking
a verdict against them. The right to remove was not contingent on the aspect the case may have assumed on the facts
developed on the merits of the issues tried. As we have said
the contention that the railway company, was fraudulently
joined as a defendant had been disposed of by the Circuit
Court. But assuming, without deciding, that that contention could have been properly renewed under the circumstances, it is sufficient to say that the record before us does
not sustain it.
Judgment affined.

