ABBOTT v. TACOMA BANK OF COMMERCE.

409

Opinion of the Court.

ABBOTT v. TACOMA BANK OF COMMERCE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No: 876. Submitted November 6, 1899. -Decided

December 11, 1899.

The plaintiff in error sued the defendants in error in a state court of the
State of Washington, to recover damages for a libel alleged to have been
contained in the pleadings in a suit against him, instituted by them in the
Circuit Court of the United States. The trial court dismissed the action,
and its judgment was affirmed by the highest court of the State, which
judgment so affirmed, was brought to this court by writ of error.* A
motion being made to dismiss the action or affirm the judgment below,
Held, that there was color for the motion to dismiss, and therefore the
motion to affirm could be eo.nsidered; and as the judgment of the court
below did not deprive the plaintiff of any right, privilege or immunity
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, it should be
affirmed.
MOTiON

to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated in the opin-

ion.
-Yr. W. -E. Bogle and Mi'. Charlem 1?ichardson, for the
motion.
-Mr. John E.
Mx. JUSTICE

fitchell and .i'.

W. C. Sharpstein,opposing.

AymLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Abbott, .brought this action in the
Superior Court of the State of Washington to recover damages sustained by the plaintiff on account of an alleged libel
published against him by the National Bank of Commerce of
Tacoma, Washington, and the other individual defendants
named.
It appears that in 1895 the defendant bank at the instance
of the other defendants as its directors and attorneys instituted
a suit in the United States Circuit Court for the District of
Washington against three of its former directors to recover
certain alleged losses on account of loans made by them. The
complaint in that suit alleged that Abbott was one of the per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sons to whom the loans were made, and among other things
charged substantially that he was insolvent when they were
made.
In the present action Abbott alleged in his complaint that
the statements in reference to him and his financial condition
in the other suit were defamatory and untrue; that the
defendants not only had no reason to believe them to be
true, but knew them to be untrue, and that those statements were not pertinent, relevant or material to the bank's
cause of action.
The defendants in their answer averred that the language
referred to was contained in the complaint filed by the bank
and not otherwise; that the court in which that complaint
was filed had jurisdiction of the parties and of the subjectmatter of the action; and that the language used was pertinent, relevant and material to the issues, and was in good
faith believed by defendants to be true and was true.
In his reply the plaintiff, besides denying the averments of
the answer, alleged that he was not a party to the action in
which that complaint was filed, was not bound by any proceedings therein, that his rights cannot be determined in any
manner thereby, and that "any attempt to deprive him of his
rights or his property by any process therein or thereunder is
contrary to and in.
violation of the constitution and laws of the
State of Washington, and of section 1 of Article XIV of the
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States."
The trial court, on motion for judgment on the pleadings,
dismissed the suit upon the ground that the facts stated did
not constitute a cause of action and because the matters
alleged to be libellous were privileged.
This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Washington. Among other things that court said: "Whether the
Federal court had jurisdiction of the cause in which the pleading was filed, and of the parties thereto, is purely a legal question to be determined from an inspection of the pleading itself.
The Federal court overruled a demurrer to the bill which contained the objectionable matter, and we are constrained to hold
as did that court that it had jurisdiction. See 2ationalBank

ABBOTT v. TACOMA BANK OF COMMERCE.

411

Opinion of the Court.

of Commerce v. Wade et al., 84 Fed. Rep. 10. We think it
requires no argument to demonstrate that the words complained of were pertinent and material to the cause, and the
question to be-determined is, were they absolutely privileged,
regardless of whether they were true or false, used maliciously
or in good faith. The doctrine of privileged communications
rests upon public policy, ' which looks to the free and unfettered
administration of justice, though, as an incidental result, it may,
in some instances, afford an immunity to the evil-disposed and
malignant slanderer.' Bartlettv. Ohristhily,69 Maryland, 219.
It cannot be doubted that it is a privilege liable to be abused,
and its abuse may lead to great hardships; but to give legal
sanction to such suits as the present would, we think, give rise
to far greater hardships." Abbott v. Nat. Bank of Commerce,
20 Washington, 552.
Among the errors assigned in this court are that the Supreme
Court of Washington erred in affirming the judgment of the
Superior Court of Pierce County because the effect of such
judgment was to deprive plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amend:
ment to the Constitution of the United States; in holding
that the United States Circuit Court for the District of Washington, Western Division, had jurisdiction of the suit brought
by the National Bank of Commerce of Tacoma; in holding
that the libellous matter contained in the bill of complaint
filed in that suit was privileged; and in holding that such
matter was pertinent and material to the issue in that suit.
This case is now before -us upon motion to dismiss the present writ of error for want of jurisdiction in this court, and,
that motion failing, to affirm the judgment below on the
ground that the question upon which jurisdiction depends is
such as not to need further argument.
The questioii whether the Circuit Court of the United States
had jurisdiction to entertain the suit brought by the National
Bank of Commerce was raised in the action brought by the
bank and was decided in its favor-the court' holding that
the case was one arising under the laws of the United States,
in that it involved the question whether or not the action

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

could be maintained under section 5239 of the Revised Statutes before the violation of its provisions had been determined
by a proper court in a suit brought for that purpose by the
Comptroller of the Currency. National Bank of Commerce
v. Wade, above cited. That section is as follows: "ยง 5239.
If the directors of any national banking association shall
knowingly violate, or knowingly permit any of the officers,
agents or servants of the association to violate any of the
provisions of this Title, all the rights, privileges and franchises of the association shall be thereby forfeited. Such
violation shall, however, be determined and adjudged by a
proper Circuit., District or Territorial Court of the United
States, in a suit brought for that purpose by the Comptroller
of the Currency, in his own name, before the association shall
be declared dissolved. And in case of such violation, every director who participated in or assented to the same shall be
held liable in his personal and individual capacity for all
damages which the association, its shareholders or any other
person shall have sustained in consequence of such violation."
The Supreme Court of the State held. that the Circuit Court
of the United States had authority to entertain the action
brought by the bank. But that decision did not bring the
case within the clause of the statute giving this court jurisdiction to regxamine a final judgment or decree in the highest court of the State " where is drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States, and the decision is against their validity." Rev.
Stat. ยง 709. The Circuit Court of the United States had authority to judicially determine in the case and for the parties
before it whether the action brought by the bank was one
arising under the laws of the United States. Its authority
in that regard was not and could not have been disputed.
But to deny that the bank could bring its action in the Federal court -the bank being located in Washington and the
persons sued by it being citizens of that State- was not,
within the meaning of section 709, to draw in question "an
authority exercised under the United States." Besides, the
decision of the same question by the state court was in sup-

ABBOTT v. TACOMA BANK OF COMMERCE.

413

Opinion of the Court.

port of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States. Where the issue is as to the validity of "an authority exercised under the United States," we cannot review its
determination by the state court, unless the decision was
against the validity of the authority so exercised. As said
in Balt. & Potomac Railroad v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, 223,
"the distinction is palpable between a denial of the authority
and a denial of a right, title, privilege or immunity claimed
under it." Clough v. Curtis, 134: U. S. 361, 369; United
States v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280, 286; Cook County v. Calumet cc. Canal & Dock Co., 138 U. S. 635, 653.
Nor can we sustain the contention that our jurisdiction may
rest on the clause of section 09, "or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised
under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, an&the
decision is in favor of their validity." The authority of the
state court to consider and pass upon the question, directly
raised in the case before it, as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States on the bank's suit, was not drawn
in question. The contention is only that. its decision was
erroneous.
But this court has. jurisdiction under the clause of section
709, "or where any right, title, privilege or immunity is
claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or
commission, held or authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege
or immunity specially set up or claimed by either party or
authority.r The plaintiff did specially set up and claim that
reputation was "property," and that the ground on which the
state court proceeded, namely, that the alleged libellous matter appeared in a pleading and could not be made the basis of
an action for damages deprived him of his property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States.
It is true, as suggested by plaintiff in error, that a State
may not by any of its agencies, legislative, judicial or executive, disregard the prohibitions of that amendment. But even

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

if reputation could be deemed property within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the state court did nothing that
could be regarded within the meaning of the Constitution, as
depriving the plaintiff of his reputation. It only adjudged
that the words used in a pleading in another suit could not be
made the fouhdation of an action for damages. If it erred in
so declaring, it was an error as to a matter of general lawv and
involved no question of a Federal nature; still less an error
which in any legal sense deprived the plaintiff of his reputation. It left his reputation as it was, and only adjudged that
he could not proceed against the defendants, and by judgment
and execution take their property in violation of what the
court deemed to be the principles of law governing the case.
There was, in our opinion, color for the motion to dismiss,
and therefore the motion to affirm may be considered; and as
the judgment below did not deprive plaintiff of any right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Qonstitution or laws of
the United States, it is
Aj)Thmed.

HAMILTON v. RATHBONE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLMMBIA.
No. 6. Argued November 15, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1899.

The right given to a married woman by section 728, Revised Statutes of
the District of Columbia, "to devise and bequeath-her property," applies
to all her property, and is not limited by the language of a prior act,
from which this section was taken, to such as she had not acquired by
gift and conveyance from her husband.
In the construction of statutes, prior acts may be cited to solve, but not to
create an ambiguity.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia by Grace Abbie B. iRathbone as plaintiff, against Frances Rebecca Hamilton, defendant, to recover an undivided one third interest in a parcel
of land of which the defendant Hamilton was then in pos"
session.

