OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

TULLIS v. LAKE ERIE AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEA.T

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 71. Argued and submitted October 26, 2T, 1899.- Decided December 11, 1899.
The following provisions in the first section of the act of the legislature of
Indiana approved by the Governor of that State on the 4th day of March,
1893, viz.: "That every railroad or other corporation, except municipal,
operating in this State, shall be liable for damages for personal injury
suffered by any employ6 while in its service, the employ6 so injured being
in the exercise of due care and diligence, in the following cases: First.
When such injury is suffered by reason of any defect in the condition of
ways, works, plant, tools and machinery connected with, or in use in the
business of such corporation,.when such defect was the result of negligence on the part of the corporation, or some person entrusted by it with
the duty of keeping such way, works, plant, tools or machinery in proper
condition: Second. Where such injury resulted from the negligence
of any person in the service of such corporation, to whose order or direction the injured employ6 at the time of the injury was bound to conform,
and did conform: Third. Where such injury resulted from the act or
omission of any person done or made in obedience to any.rule, regulation
or by-law of such corporation, or in obedience to the particular instructions given by any person delegated with the authority of the corporation
in that behalf: Fourth. Where such injury was caused by the negligence
of any person in the service of such corporation who has charge of any
signal, telegraph office, switch yard, shop, round house, locomotive engine
or train upon a railway, or where such injury was caused by the negligence of any person, coemploy6 or fellow servant engaged in the same
common service in any of the several departments of the service of any
such corporation, the said person, coemploy6 or fellow servant at the
time acting in the place and performing the duty of the corporation in
that behalf, and the person so injured obeying or conforming to the order
of some superior at the time of such- injury, having the authority to
direct; that nothing herein shall be construed to abridge the liability of
the corporation under existing laws," as they are construed and applied
by the Supremne Court of that State, are not invalid, and do not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

THIS case came to this court on the following certificate of

the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh

Circuit:

TULLIS v. LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD.

349

Statement of the Case.

"In this case, duly argued and submitted to this court, there
arises a question of law concerning which this court desires
the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The action was brought by the plaintiff in error to recover
damages for an injury suffered while in the employment of
the defendant in error, caused by a negligent act of a fellow
servant, for which the defendant in error is alleged to- be
responsible by force of an act of the legislature of Indiana
approved by the Governor of the State March 4, 1893. The
first section of the act reads as follows:
"' 1. That every railroad or other corporation, except municipal, operating in this State, shall be liable in damages for
personal injury suffered by 9ny employ6 while in its service,
the employ6 so injured being in the exercise of due care and
diligence, in the following cases:
"'First. When such injury is suffered by reason of any
defect in the condition of ways, works, plant, tools and
machinery connected with or in use in the business of such
corporation, when such defect was the result of negligence on
the part of the corporation, or some person entrusted by it
with the duty of keeping such way, works, plant, tools or
machinery in proper condition.
"'Second. Where such injury resulted from the negligence
of any person in the service of such cQrporation, to whose
order or direction the injured employ6 at the time of the
injury was bound to conform, and did conform.
"' Third. Where such injury resulted from the act or omission of any person done or made in obedience to any rule,
regulation or by-law of such corporation, or in obedience to
the particular instructions given by 4ny person-delegated with
the authority of the corporation in that behalf.
"' Fourth. Where such injury was caused by the negligence
of any person in the service of such corporation who has
charge of any signal, telegraph office, switch yard, shop,
round house, locomotive engine or train upon a railway, or
where such injury was caused by the negligence of any
person, coemploy6, or fellow servant engaged in the same
common service in any of the several departments of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

service of any such corporation, the said person, coemploy6
or fellow servant, at the time acting in the place, and performing the duty of the corporation in that behalf, and the
person so injured, obeying or conforming to the order of some
superior- at the time of such injury, having the authority to
direct; but nothing herein shall be construed to abridge the
liability of the corporation under-existing laws.'
"1For the entire act reference is made to Session Laws of
1893, page 294, Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes, :Revision
of 1894, paragraphs 7083 to. T087, inclusive.
"The Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company is a corporation of the State of Illinois owning and operating a railroad extending from Peoria, Illinois, into and through the
State of Indiana. It- is contended that the statute referred
to is invalid because inconsistent with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. If it be invalid
the declaration shows no cause of action,.and the errors alleged
to have been committed at the trial become immaterial. The
opinion of this court is that material error was committed at
the trial for which the judgment below should be reversed
if the statute mentioned is valid, and that if the statute mentioned is invalid the judgment should be affirmed. The question whether that statute is valid or violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States the
court hereby orders certified and submitted to the Supreme
Court of the United States for its proper decision."
_b. W H. H. .Miller for Lake Erie & Western Railroad.
MAr. J.B. 7Ekm and Mrb. J B. Cockrum were on his brief.
7r.Addison C. Harris,for Tullis, submitted on his brief.
MR.- CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The contention is that the act referred to is in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment because it denies the equal protection of the laws to the corporations to which it is applicable.

TULLIS v. LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD.

351

Opinion of the Court.

In Pittsburgh &c. Railroad Company v. .ontgomery, 152
Indiana; 1, the statute in question was held valid as to railroad companies, and it was also held that objection to its
validity could not be made by such companies on the ground
that it embraced all corporations except municipal, and that
there were -some corporations whose business would not bring
them within the reason of the classification. In announcing
the latter conclusion the court ruled in effect that the act was
capable of severance; that its relation to railroad corporations
was not essentially and inseparably connected in substance with
its relation to other corporations; and that, therefore, whether
it was constitutional or not as to other corporations, it might
be sustained as to railroad corporations.
In Leep v. Railway Company, 58 Arkansas, 407, and St.
Loui, Iron 31ountain &c. Railway v. Paul,64: Arkansas, 83,
an act of Arkansas of March 25, 1889, was held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of that State so far as affecting
natural persons, and sustained in respect of corporations; and
in St. Loui, Iron .Mountain &c. Railway v.Paul,173 U. S.
404, that view of the act was accepted by this court because
that court had so decided.
Considering this statute as applying to railroad corporations only, we think it cannot be regarded as in conflict with
the Fourteenth Amendment.
fissouri Pacific Railway v.
-Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; .Xinneapolis & St. Louis Railway
v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210; Chicago, KEansas &eo. Railroad v.
Pontius, 157 U. S. 209; Peirce v. Van Dusen, 47 U. S. App.
339; Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557.
In ]issouri Railway v. 'ackey, the validity of a statute
of Kansas of 1i874 providing that "every railroad company
organized or doing business in this State shall be liable for
all damages done to any employ6 of such company in consequence of any negligence of its agents, or by any mismanagement of its engineers or other employs to any person
sustaining such damage," was involved, and it was held that
it did not deny to railroad companies the equal protection of
the laws. Mr. Justice Field said: ".The hazardous character
of the business of operating a railway would seem to call for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

special legislation with respect to railroad corporations, having for its object the protection of their, employ~s as well as
the safety of the public. The business of other corporations
is not subject to similar dangers to their employ~s, and no
objections, therefore, can be made to the legislation on the
ground of its making an unjust discrimination. It meets a
particular necessity, and all railroad corporations are, without distinction, made subject to the same liabilities. As said
by the court'below, it is simply a question of legislative discretion whether the same liability shall be applied to carriers
by canal and stage coaches and to persons and corporations
using steam in manufactories."
In .Minneapolis &c.Railway v. Herrick, the same conclusion was reached in respect of a law of*the State of Iowa,
that "every corporation operating a railway shall be liable
for all damages sustained by any person, including employ~s
of such corporation, in consequence of the neglect of agents,
or by any mismanagement of the engineers or other employ~s
of the corporation, and in consequence of the wilful wrongs,
whether commission or omission, of such agents, engineers
or other employ~s, when such wrongs are in any manner
connected with the use and operation of any railway on or
about which they shall be employed, and no contract which
restricts such liability shall be legal or binding."
In Chicago &c. Railroad v. Pontis, a bridge carpenter,
employed by a railroad company, who was injured through
the negligence of employ~s of the company while assisting in
loading timber, taken froh the false work used in constructing a bridge, on a car for transportation to another point on
the company's road, was held to be an employ6 of thb company within the meaning of the statute of Kansas, and the
validity of that act was again affirmed.
In Peirce v. Van Dusen, a similar statute of the State of
Ohio applying to railroad companies was upheld by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, Mr. Justice Harlan delivering the opinion of the court.
In Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, in which an act
of the State of Missouri in respect of policies of insurance

TULLIS v. LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD.

353

Opinion of the Court.

against loss or damage by fire was drawn in question, the
objection that the statute discriminated between fire insurance
companies and companies engaged in other kinds of insurande
was overruled, and it was said that the power of the State to
distinguish, select and classify objects of legislation necessarily
had a wide range of discretion; that it was sufficient to satisfy
the demands of the Constitution if the classification were
practical and not palpably arbitrary, and that the classification of the Missouri statute was not objectionable in view of
the differences between fire insurance and other insurance.
Railroad Company v. X3ackey and Rail'oad Company v.
Beclkwith were cited and approved. And see Afagoun v. 111.
Trust and Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283; PaciicExjpress Co.
v. $eibert, 142 U. S.339; Atchison, Topeka &c. R-ailroad v.
Mfatthews, 174 U. S. 96.
By reason of the particular phraseology of the act under
consideration it is earnestly contended that the decisions sustaining the validity of the statutes of Kansas, Iowa and Ohio
are not in point, and that this statute of Indiana classified
railroad companies arbitrarily by name and not with regard
to the nature of the business in which they were engaged,
but the Supreme Court of the State in the case cited has held
otherwise as to the proper interpretation of the act, and has.
treated it as practically the same as the statutes of the States
referred to. Indeed the Iow statute is quoted. from, and the
case of Beckwith, as well as that of Mackey, relied on as
decisive in the premises.
As remarked in Misso ri, Kansas &c. Railway v. McCann,
174 U. S.580, 586, the contention calls on this court to disregard the interpretation given to a state statute by the court
of last resort of the State, and, by an adverse construction,
to decide that the state law is repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States. "But the elementary rule is that this
court accepts the interpretation of a statute of a State affixed
to it by the court of last resort thereof."
This being an action brought by Tullis to 'recover damages
for an injury suffered while in the employment of the railroad company, caused by the negligent act of a fellow serVOL. cLXXY-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

vant, for which the company was alleged to be responsible
by force of the act, we answer the question propounded that
The statute as construed and applied by the Sa1reme
Court of Indiana is not invalid and does not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Certificate accordingly.

THE PEDRO.
PPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 115. Argued November 2, 8,1899. -Decided December 11, 1899.
On the 20th of April, 1898, a joint resolution of Congress was approved by
the President declaring that the people of Cuba are, and of right ought
to be, free and independent. On the same day the Minister of Spain at
Washington demanded his passport, and the diplomatic relations of Spain
with the United States were terminated. On the 22d of the same April a
blockade of a part of the coast of Cuba was instituted. On the 23d of
the same month, in a proclamation of the Queen Regent of Spain it was
declared that a state of war was existing between Spain and the United
States. On the 26th of the same month the President issued a proclamation, declaring that a state of- war existed between the United States and
Spain, the fourth and fifth articles of which proclamation were as follows:
"4. Spanish merchant vessels in any ports or places within the United
States shall be allowed till May 21, 1898, inclusive, for loading their cargoes and departing from such ports or places; and such Spanish merdhant vessels, if met at sea by any United States ship shall be permitted
to continue their voyage if, on examination of their papers, it shall appear
that their cargoes were taken on board before the expiration of the above
term; Provided, that nothing herein contained shall apply to the Spanish
vessels having on board any officers in the military or naval service of the
enemy, or any coal (except such as may be necessary for their voyage),
or any other article prohibited or contraband of war, or any dispatch of
or to the Spanish Government."
"5. Any Spanish merchant vessel
which, prior to April 21, 1898, shall have sailed from any'foreign port
bound for any port or place in the United States, shall be permitted to
enter such port or place and to discharge her cargo, and afterwards
forthwith to depart without molestation; and any such vessel, If met at

sea by any Uuitvd States ship, sbh4 be pelmitted to coutinlie hvr .oy,

