274 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

sion of the color of legal process, or of seizure of his person
-'or goods, pays money unlawfully demanded, he may recover
it bick?'
The fact that the defendant is a state official is not in itself
a defence, and our attention has been called to no statute of
Texas which substitutes any other for the common law rule.
Inasmuch as the bill contains nothing to indicate inability
on the one hand to pay the franchise tax in question, or on
the other, to respond in judgment if it were found to have
been illegally exacted, and sets up no special circumstances
justifying the exercise of equity jurisdiction other than consequences which complainant can easily avert, without loss or
injury, we are of opinion that it cannot be sustained.
It is quite possible that in cases of this sort the validity of
a law may be more conveniently tested, by the party denying
it, by a bill in equity than by an action at law; but considerations of that character, while they may explain, do not
justify, resort to that mode of proceeding.

Decree modifted to a dismissal without prejudice,and as so
modified affirmed.

SEEBERGER v. McCORMICK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 822. Submitted October 16, 1899. -Decided December 4, 1899.
The contention, even if formally made, that plaintiffs in error were seeking to avail themselves of some right or immunity under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, does not give this court jurisdiction to
review the judgment of the Supreme Court of a State, where that judgment was based upon a doctrine of general law, sufficient of itself to
determine the case.
It having been decided in McCormick v. Market Bank, 165 U. S. 538, that
the contract of lease there in suit was void, the plaintiff in error in that
case commenced this action in a state court in Illinois to recover from
citizens of that State the rent for the property .which had been intended
to be leased to the bank by the void lease, on the ground that they had

SEEBERGER v. McCORMICK.
Statement of the Case.
falsely assumed corporate authority to make the void lease. Such proceedings were had in the state courts that judgment was finally rendered
by the Supreme Court of that State in McCormick's favor. Held, that
the question whether the plaintiffs in error rendered themselves liable "to
McCormick by reason of their false assumption of corporate authority
was one of general law, and not one to be solved by reference to any law,
statutory or constitutional, of the United States; and that, as no Federal
question was in form presented to or passed upon by the state Supreme
Court, and because its judgment was based upon matter of general and
not Federal law, this court was without jurisdiction to review it.

THis was an action brought in a state court of' Illinois in
which Leonard J. McCormick sought to hold Seeberger and
others as partners for an alleged false assumption of power as
a national banking asspciation.
On January 31, 1893, articles of association were signed
and an organization certificate was signed and acknowledged
by nine citizens of Illinois, and both were transmitted to the
Comptroller of Currency, as required by the Revised Statutes
of the United States, for the purpose of making them a
national banking association at Chicago by the name of the
Market National Bank. -Ata meeting of the directors of the
bank, chosen by the stockholders, and named in the articles
of association, a president and cashier were duly elected, and
the directors caused a'seal to be made for the bank. On February 9, 1893, the president, pursuant to a resolution of the
directors, signed and sealed with the corporate seal a lease in
writing from Leander J. McCormick to the bank of certain
offices in Chicago, "to be used and occupied by said Market
National Bank as a banking office,. and for no othe purpose,"
for the term of five years from May 1, 1893, at a yearly rent of
$13,000. By an agreement made part of the lease, McCormick
was to make certain alterations and repairs at his own expense;
either party might cancel the lease on May 1 of any year
by giving ninety days' notice in writing; and no rent was to.
be charged until the bank took possession.
On April 12,
1893, the parties .made a supplemental agreement, by which
McCormick was to make further alterations, the bank paying half the cost thereof. All the alterations and repairs were*
made by McCormick as agreed; the cost, paid by him, of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

alterations'of Aprii 12, 1893, being $24,75. On June 22, 1893,
the president and cashier, in the name of the bank, took possession of the demised premises, and put in the fixtures and
furniture, blank books and stationery, necessary to carry on a
banking business, and they were not removed until April 30,
1895.
Of the whole capital stock of $1,000,000, called for in the
articles of association, but $331,594 was ever paid in; and the
bank was never authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency
to commence, and never did commence, the business of banking. The officers of the bank, from time to time, corresponded
with McCormick, using letter heads, with the name, location
and place of business of the bank and the names of the officers
printed thereon, dnd signing in their official capacity. On
August 15, 1893, the officers of the bank informed McCormick
that the bank had never been authorized to commence the
business of banking, and had no power to enter into the lease,
and had abandoned all further proceedings, and offered to
surrender the lease. McCormick refused to accept the surrender, and on September 20, 1893, the president caused the
key of the office to be left on the desk of McCormick's agent,
he refusing to accept it.
On OctoberA4, 1893, the parties agreed in writing that, without prejudice to the rights of either, McCormick should take
possession of the premises, and endeavor to lease them and to
collect the rent thereof. He made every effort to obtain a
tenant accordingly, but was unable to do so. On January 3,
1895, McCormick gave written notice to the president of the
bank of his intention to terminate the lease in May, 1895, in
accordance with its terms. The cashier paid the rent, according to the lease, until July 22, 1893; but the bank refused to
pay any rent subsequently accruing, and never paid its half of
the cost of the alterations made under the agreement of April
12, 1893. Thereupon McCormick brought an action against
the Market National Bank on July 17, 1895, in the Superior
Court of Cook County, Illinois, claiming that he was entitled
to recovdr judgment, at the rate agreed upon in the lease,
from Jily 22, 1893, up to May 1, 1895, and for half of the

SHEBERGER v. McCORMICK.
Counsel for Parties.

cost of changing and repairing the premises. That court
refused to hold that McCormick could recover upon the lease
as a valid contract, but gave judgment in .his favor for the
rent from July 22 to August 15, 1893, and for half the cost of
the alterations, with interest, amounting in all to the sum of
$2548.85. This judgment was affirmed on successive appeals
of McCormick, by the Appellate Court and by the Supreme.
Court of Illinois. 61 ll. App. 33; 162 Illinois, 100. Thereupon McCormick sued out a writ of error and brought the case
to the Supreme Court of the United States, where the judgment of the Illinois courts was affirmed. 165 U. S.538.
On November 19, 1895,.McCormick brought an action in
the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, against Anthony
F. Seeberger and fifteen persons, as copartn'ers doing business
in Chicago, Illinois, under the firm name and style of The
Market National Bank of Chicago. The defendants were
officers, directors and shareholders of the Market National
Bank, and in this action McCormick sought to hold them
personallr for the balance of the rent due under the terms of
the lease. The Superior Court rendered judgment for the
defendants. McCormick appealed, and the Appellate Court
of Illinois reversed the judgment, "found the facts as set
forth in the stipulation in the record," and entered judgment
against the defendants, and assessed the damages at the
amount of the rent stipulated in the lease from August 15,
1893, to May 1, 1895, to wit, $22,208.33. The defendants
then took the case to the Supreme Court of Illinois, which
affirmed the judgment of the Appellate Court. Thereupon
the defendants sued out a writ of error and brought the case
to this court; and on October 16, 1899, a motion was made
and submitted by the defendant in error to dismiss the writ
of error on the alleged ground tlat no Federal question, sufficient to give this court jurisdiction to review the decision of
the state court, was shown by the record.
-Yr. .Hiram T. Gilbert for plaintiff in error.
X.. A. .Pence, -Mr. George A. Ca penter and X1. Skirley T. High for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SnnrRAS, after making the above statement of
the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

In the suit brought by McCormick against the Market
National Bank of Chicago it was held by the Supreme Court
of Illinois that the contract of lease sued on was not incidental and necessarily preliminary to the organization of the
corporation, and therefore, by virtue of section 5136 of the
Revised Statutes, having been executed by the defendant
before being authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency
to commence the business of banking, did not bind the defendant. That decision being arrived at upon a consideration of
the legal import of a statute of the United States, was plainly
one involving a Federal question. But it was contended that
this court had no jurisdiction to review the action of the
state court, because its decision was in favor, in respect to the
Federal statute, of the party who had set up and claimed an
immunity under it. It was, however, clearly shown by this
court that, as the defendants had relied on the statutory prohibition to transact any business until it had been authorized
by the Comptroller of the Currency to commence the business
of banking, and as the plaintiff had relied on the exception
out of that prohibition, that is, had claimed that the lease was
"incidental and necessarily preliminary to the organization,"
and as the decision was against the plaintiff on the latter contention, it was, therefore, a decision against a right claimed
by him under a statute of the United States and reviewable
by this court on writ of error. 7fcCormic v. .MXazAmet Bank,
165 U. S. 538, 546.
McCormick's recovery in that action having been restricted
to rent for the time of the bank's actual occupancy of the
,premises, he brought the present suit against the persons who
had taken part in the proposed organization of the bank, charging them as partners doing business in the firm name and style
of the Market National Bank of Chicago. He recovered a
judgment in the Appellate Court of Illinois., That judgment
has been affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, and the.
case is now before us on a writ of error to the judgment of
the state Supreme Court.

SEEBERGER v. McCORMICK.
Opinion of the Court.

The theory upon which this action was maintained in the
state courts can be best made'to appear by a quotation from
the opinion of the Supreme Court:
"The principle is one of agency, and that plaintiffs in error,
as the agents of the corporation in making the contract qf the
lease, by necessary implication asserted to the lessor that they
were in fact authorized to cause the lease to be executed by
the corporation. Where the contract is made in good faith
and both parties are fully cognizant of the facts, and the mistake is one of law only, the result of which is to exonerate
the principal from liability, because the agent had no lawful
authority to make the contract, it is clear that the agent cannot be held liable, either ex eontractu or ex delicto.
"The Appellate Court was authorized to find, and doubtless
did find, that this was not such a case. These directors were
charged with knowledge that they had not taken the necessary
steps to obtain, and had not obtained, the certificate of the
Comptroller necessary to confer power to make the lease, and
it was a fair inference for the Appellate Court to draw from
the agreed facts that McCormick did not know of this omission until August 15, 1893, several months aftei the lease was
executed and after possession of the premises had been taken
by the lessee under it. The stipulation also showed that the
plaintiffs in error cancelled their articles of association in J'uly,
but remained in possession of the premises until the 15th day
of August. They had by resolution authorized and directed
the execution of the lease, and there can be no doubt of the
legal sufficiency of the evidence to establish an implied warranty on their part of their authority to enter into the lease
on behalf of the corporation, if such implied warranty is in
law a sufficient ground on which to make them liable to
respond i damages to McCormick for a breach of such
warranty.
"We are of opinion that upon both principle and authority
such an action can be maintained. Indeed, the fraud, if
any, arises out of the contractual relations which the parties
have assumed.. The express contract purporting to bind the
principal may be void, but if the agent has given his warranty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
9pinion of the"Court.

express or implied, that he is authorized by his principal to
execute that contract when he has no such authority, we
know of no principle in law or logic which would prevent
the other party from recovering for the breach of such warranty where injury has been sustained by such breach."
Did such a state of facts and law present a Federal question? Certainly there was no formal allegation in the assignments of error to the judgment of the appellate court that
the plaintiffs in error were claiming any immunity under the
laws or Constitution of the United States; nor is there any
allusion, however distant, in the opinion of the Supreme Court,
to any such question. And surely the fact that the defendants had proposed, but bad. failed, to effect an organization
as a banking association under the laws of the United States,
did not bestow a Federal character upon their transactions.
By withdrawing from their futile attempt to create a corporation under the statutes of the United States, these individual defendants must be deemed to have renounced any
right, title or immunity they might have possessed under
such organization had it been perfected.
It has been frequently held that the contention, even if for.rallymade, that plaintiffs in error were seeking to avail themselves of some right or immunity under the Constitution or laws
of the United States does not give us jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of a State where that judgment was based upon a doctrine of general law sufficient of
itself to determine the case. Beaupr v. Noyes, 138 U. S. 397;
Eustis v.'Bolles, 150 U. S.361; Piercev. Somerset Railway, 171
U. S. 64:1; Remington Paver Co. v. Watson, 173 U. S.443.
We think that the question whether the plaintiffs in error
rendered themselves liable to McCormick by reason of their
false assumption of corporate authority was .one of general law,
and not one to be solved by reference to any law, statutory or
constitutional, of the United States.
As well, then, because no Federal question was in form presented to or passed upon by the Supreme Court of Illinois, as
because the judgment of that court was based upon matter of
general and not Federal law, we are unable to see that we have

MALONY v. ADSIT.
Statement of the Case.

jurisdiction to review that judgment; and the writ of error is
accordingly
1Dismirsed.

MALONY v. ADSIT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF

-THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 67. Argued October 25, 26, 1899.-Decided December 4, 1899.

Allowing and signing a bill of exceptions is a judicial act, which can only be
performed by the judge who sat at the trial; and section 953 of the
Revised Statutes is intended to provide and does provide that no bill of
exceptions can b6 deemed sufficiently authenticated, unless signed by the
judge who sat at the trial, or by the presiding judge if more than one
sat.
This action being an action of ejectment, the provision in ยง 3524 of the Oregon Code with regard to actions for forcible entry and detainer have no
application to it.

IN May, 1896, Ohlin H. Adsit filed a complaint against John
F. Malony in the United States District Court for the District
of Alaska, to recover possession of the undivided one half of a
tract of land in the town of Juneau, District of Alaska. The
complaint averred that on the 29th day of April, 1891, and for
more than nine years prior thereto, the plaintiff and his grantors
were the owners by right of prior occupancy and actual possession, of the land in question, and that plaintiff was entitled to
the possession thereof; that one James Whim was the owner
of the other undivided one half part of said land; that on or
about the 29th day of April, 1891, the defendant and his
grantor, without right or title so to do, entered thereon, and
ousted and ejected the plaintiff, and his grantors therefrom,
and from thence hitherto have wrongfully withheld possession
from the plaintiff.
The plaintiff prayed judgment for the recovery of the possession of an undivided one half part or interest of, in and to the
wholb of the described premises, and for his costs and disbursements in the action.

