OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

[ARKUSON v. BOUCHER.
APPEAL FROM

THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 77. Argued and submitted October 27,1899.-Decided November 20, 1899.

It is again held that judgments of the state courts in criminal cases should
not be reviewed by Federal courts through writs of habeas corpus,but
the proper remedy in such case, when it is claimed that some right
under the Constitution of the United States has been denied the person
convicted, is by writ of error.

THE statement of the case is in the opinion.
Mr. 0. A O'Brien for appellant submitted on his brief.
Mr. Edward Winterer for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

MoKENN delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 3d of January, 1898, the appellant presented a petition to the United States District Court for the District of
North Dakota for a writ of habeas corpus. It alleged that
the petitioner was confined, and had been since the 7th of
December, 1897, in the state penitentiary of North Dakota,
under and in pursuance of a "certain pretended commitment" issued by the district court of the fifth judicial district
of the State, in and for the county of Barnes, upon a "pretended judgment and sentence" of said court in certain proceedings therein instituted on the relation of the assistant
attorney general of the State, and by the terms of said judgment and sentence the petitioner was sentenced to be imprisoned in said state penitentiary for one year,
That petitioner appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
which court affirmed "in all things the said judgment, conviction and sentence," whereupon he was confined as aforesaid. That the proceedings "were had and carried on" under
and pursuant to the provisions of section 7605 of the Revised
Statutes of the State, and of other statutes of the State.

MARKUSON v. BOUCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition further alleged that the said statutes violated
the fifth and sixth articles of the Amendments of the Constitution of the United States, and article 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that they (the statutes) provide for the charging of .a citizen with an infamous crime and compel him to
answer and be punished therefor without a presentment and
indictment of a grand jury; and deprive in a criminal prosecution the right of a trial by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime was committed, and permit a
conviction of one accused of crime without being confronted
with the witnesses against him; and operate to abridge the
privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States and
deprive them of liberty and -property without due process of
law and the equal protection of the laws, in that they provide
that in prosecutions thereunder a conviction for the contempt
of court may be had without a trial by jury, whereas in 1l
other criminal prosecutions persons accused are entitled to a
jury trial; and further, in that under such proceedings a contempt of court is punishable as an infamous crime, whereas
in all other proceedings a contempt of court is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
Petitioner further alleged that -he was in "straightened circumstances, and without means or power to prosecute a writ
of error from the Supreme Court of the State to the Supreme
Court of the United States, or to*employ counsel to present
or argue it there, and is informed and believes if he had such
means it could not be brought on for hearing before the expiration of his sentence."
A writ of habeas corpus was prayed for and issued. On
return and hearing it was discharged, and the petitioner
remanded to custody. From the order remanding this appeal
was prosecuted, and the petitioner was admitted to bail to
await the decision of the appeal.
In the brief of appellant's counsel, and also in that of the
attorney general of the State, as well as in oral argument, the
constitutional points raised were argued at length. We are
not disposed to consider them. We have frequently pronounced against the review by habeas corpus of the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ments of the state courts in criminal cases, because some right
under the Constitution of the United States was alleged to
have been denied the person convicted, and have repeatedly
decided the proper remedy was by writ of error.
It is not necessary to review the cases or to repeat or justify
their reasoning. We lately stated the rule and the reasons for
it in the cases of Baker v. Grie,169 U. S. 284, and in Tinsley
v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101, 104. In the latter, passing on an
appeal from judgment dismissing a writ of habeas corpus, the
Chief Justice said: "The dismissal by the Circuit Court of the
United States of its own writ of habeas corpus was in accordance with the rule, repeatedly laid down by this court, that
the Circuit Courts of the United States, while they have power
to grant writs of habeas corvus for the purpose of inquiring into
the cause of restraint of liberty of any person in custody under
the authority of a State in violation of the Constitution, a law
or a treaty of the United States, yet, except in cases of peculiar
urgency, ought not to exercise that jurisdiction by a discharge
of the person in advance of a final determination of his case in
the courts of the State, and, even after such final determination, will leave him to his remedy to review it by writ of error
from this court. E parte .Royalt, 117 U. S. 241; E parte
Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; In re Frederick,149 U. S. 70; Pepke
v. Gronan, 155 U. S. 100; Bergemann v. Backer, 157 U. S.
655; Whiitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231; Baker v. Grice,
169 U. S. 284."
In Baker v. Grice, Mr. Justice Peckham said: "Instead of
discharging they [the Federal courts] will leave the prisoner
to be dealt with by the courts of the State; that after a final
determination of the case by the state court, the Federal courts
will even then generally leave the petitioner to his remedy by
writ of error from this court. The reason for this course is
apparent. It is an exceedingly delicate jurisdiction given to
the Federal courts by which a person under an indictment
in a state court and subject to its laws may, by the decision
of a single judge of the Federal court, upon a writ of habeas
corpus, be taken out of the custody of the officers of the State
and finally discharged therefrom, and thus a trial by the state

THE NEW YORI.
Syllabus.

courts of an indictment found under the laws of a State be
finally prevented."
The jurisdiction is more delicate, the reason against its
exercise stronger, when a single judge is invoked to reverse
the decision of the highest court of a State in which the constitutional rights of a prisoner could have been claimed and
may be were rightly decided, or if not rightly decided, could
be reviewed and redressed by a writ of error from this court.
The case at bar presents no circumstances to justify a
departure from the rule or to relieve from the application
of its reasons. Nor does the question arise what right
appellant would have had to petition relief from the District
Court if his remedies against' the judgment of the state court
had ceased to exist.
Judgment affrmed.

THE NEW YORK.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF ArEALs FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No.56.

Argued October 19,1899. -Deided

November 20,1899.

In 1891, the navigation of steamers upon the Great Lakes and their connecting waters was governed by the Congressional Rules and Regulations of April 29, 1864, Rev. Stat. ยง 4233, and, so far as the manceuvres of
the vessels took place in American waters, by the Supervising Inspectors'
rules in force at that time.
The Revised International Regulations of 1885 apply only to vessels navigating the high seas and coast waters of the United States, and not to
those navigating the Great Lakes.
A court of admiralty may properly take judicial notice of an act of the
parliament of Canada regulating the navfgation of Canadian waters,
passed in 1886, as a law of the sea and of general application.
Where a Canadian statute was introduced and treated as evidence by consent of counsel upon a motion for a rehearing in the District Court,
though it did not appear of record, and, in obedience to a writ of
' The docket title of this case is The Erie & Western Transportation Company v. The Union Steamboat Company, claimant of the Propeller "New
York."

