OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

SIMMS V. SIMMS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA:.
No. 16. Submitted October 10, 1699. -Decided

November 20,1899.

No appeal lies to this court from a decree of the Supreme Court of a Territory granting or refusing a divorce.
From a decree of the Supreme Court of a Territory, dismissing the suit of
a husband for a divorce, and awarding to the wife alimony and counsel
fees, amounting in all to more than the sum of $5000, an appeal lies to
this court so far as regards the sum of money.
The disclaimer in Barberv. Barber, 21 How. 582, 584, of "any jurisdiction
in the courts of the United States upon the subject of divorce, or for the
allowance of alimony, either as an original proceeding in chancery or as
an incident to a divorce a vinculo, or to one from bed and board," has no
application to the jurisdiction of the*courts of a Territory, or to the
appellate jurisdiction of this court over those courts.
The statutes of the Territory of Arizona, authorizing any party, in whose
favor a judgment for a sum of money has been rendered in a district
court of the Territory, to file in that court, or in the Supreme Court of
the Territory on appeal, a remittitur or release of part of the judgment,
are applicable to a wife in whose favor a decree for alimony and counsel
fees has been made in a suit brought against her by her husband for a
divorce; and such a release- by her attorneys of record of part of the
sum awarded by the district court, if filed and recorded in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, while the case is there pending on appeal, is such
a substantial and sufficient compliance with the statute (although the
release itself is not attested by the clerk and under his seal) as to make
it the duty of the court to give effect to the release.
When a party who has recovered judgment, in a district court of a Territory,
for a sum of money sufficient to sustain the appellate jurisdiction of this
court from the Supreme Court of the Territory, exercises a right given
by the territorial statutes of remitting, by a release filed and recorded in
that court while the case is there pending on appeal, so much of the judgment as will reduce it below the jurisdictional amount, and that court
ignores the release and affirms the judgment of the district court, this
court, on appeal by the other party, will modify the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory so as to stand as a judgment for the
reduced sum, and will affirm the judgment as so modified, without considering the merits of the case.

THE suit was commenced by a complaint filed October 6,
1891, in a district court of the Territory of Arizona, by a hus-

SIMIMIS v. SIMMS.
Statement of the Case.

band against his wife for a divorce from the bond of matrimony for the cause of desertion on and ever since December
18, 1S93. The wife's answer denied the desertion alleged,
and set up desertion by the husband on and ever since
December 141, 1893, as well as cruelty on his part.
The Revised Statutes of 1887 of the Territory of Arizona,
tit. 34, c. 4, vest the jurisdiction of suits for divorce in the district courts of the Territory; and the only provisions thereof
touching alimony, counsel fees or costs, are copied in the
margin. I

Pending this suit, the wife, by her counsel, moved the court
to order the husband to pay her the sum of $5000 as provisional alimony to enable her to employ counsel and defend
the suit. The court made no order on the motion until its
final decision of the cause upon its merits; and then, on a
revier of the whole evidence, (which had been taken by a referee and made part of the record,) held that the suit could not
be maintained, overruled a motion for a new trial, allowed a
bill of exceptions, and by a decree entered June 13, 1896,
adjudged that the complaint be dismissed and the issues therein
decided in favor of the defendant, and that she recover $750
counsel fees, and $150 a month for her maintenance from
December 14, 1893, amounting in all to the sum of $5250,
exclusive of costs. On June 30,1896, the husband appealed to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, and gave bond to prosecute his appeal.
1 "2114. The court pronouncing a decree of divorce from the bonds of
matrimony shall also decree and order a division of the estate of the parties
in such a way as to the court shall seem just and right, having due regard
to the rights of each party and their children, if any; provided, however,
that nothing herein cohtained shall be construed to compel either party to
divest him or herself of the title to separate property."
"2120. If the wife, whether complainant or defendant, has not a sufficient
income for her maintenance during the pendency of the suit for a divorce,
the judge may, either in term time or in vacation, after due notice, allow
her a sum for her support in proportion to the means of the husband, until
a final decree shall be made in the case."
"2122. The court may award costs to the party in whose behalf the sentence or decree shall pass, or that each party shall pay his or her own costs,
as.to the court shall appear reasonable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The record of the Supreme Court of Arizona (a copy of
which, duly certified by its clerk, was transmitted to this
court) stated that on the 11th and 13th days of January, 1897,
respectively, each described as "being one of the judicial days
of the January term, 1897, of the Supreme Court of Arizona,"
orders were made fixing the times of filing briefs. The record
then stated that "on the 26th day of January, 1897, a release
of part of the judgment of the lower court for alimony was
filed in said court in said cause by said appellee," and set forth
a copy thereof, by which it appeared to have been signed by
her attorneys of record, with no other attestation. than this
blank form: "Attest,
, Clerk of the Supreme Court
of Arizona." And the release was indorsed by the clerk as
filed on that day. By the release so filed and recorded, the
wife "remits, from the judgment for alimony and counsel fees
recovered by the said' defendant and appellee against the
plaintiff and appellant herein in this cause in the district
court, all of the said judgment for alimony and counsel fees
in excess of the suni of $5000, to wit, the sum of $250."
The provisions of the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887,
on the subject of the right of a party to remit part of the sum
awarded by verdict or judgment, are copied in the margin.'
1 "1817. Any party in whose favor a verdict or judgment has been rendered [in the district court] may in open court remit any part of such verdict
or judgment, and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered
in the minutes, and execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of
such judgment after deducting the amount remitted.
"818. Any party may make such remitter in vacation, by executing and
filing with the clerk a release in writing, signed by him or his attorney of
record, and attested by the clerk with the seal of his office; such release
shall constitute a part of the record of the cause, and any execution thereafter issued shall be for the balance only of the judgment after deducting
the amount remitted."
"1822. A remitter" " made as provided in any of the preceding sections
shall, from the making thereof, cure any error in the verdict or judgment
by reason of such excess."
"945. If in any judgment rendered in the district court there shall be an.
excess of damages rendered, and, before the plaintiff has entered a release
of the same in such court in the manner provided by law, such judgment
shall be removed to the Supreme Court, it shall be lawful for the party in
whose favor such excess of damages has been rendered to make such re-

SIMMS v. SIMMS.
Opinion of the Court.

On January 30, 1897, the case was submitted on briefs to
the Supreme Court of the Territory; and on February 23,
1897, that court affirmed the judgment of the district court
for $5250. The husband took an appeal to this court, which.
has been prosecuted by his executors since his death; and the
whole case was submitted to this court on briefs.
The appellee moved to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, "because the judgment or decree, from which said
appeal purports to have been taken, is the judgment or decree
of the Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the United
States, to wit, the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona,
affirming a judgment or decree of a district court of said Territory, dismissing a bill for divorce brought by said appellant against said appellee in said district court, and awarding
appellee alimony and counsel fees pendente lite; and for the
further reason that the matter in dispute does not exceed the
sum of five thousand dollars, exclusive of costs."
Mr. L. E. Ptyson for appellants.
Mr. W. H Barnes for appellee.
YM.

JUSTCE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss this appeal for want of jurisdiction
is made upon two grounds: 1st. That the decree appealed
from is a decree dismissing a suit for divorce, and awarding
to the appellee alimony and dounsel fees pending that suit.
2d. That the raatter in dispute does not exceed the sum of
five thousand dollars, exclusive of costs.
The Revised Statutes of the United States conferred on this
court jurisdiction, upon writ of error or appeal, to review and
lease in the Supreme Court in the same manner as such release is required
to be made in the district court; and, upon such release being filed in said
Supreme Court, the said court, after revising said judgment, shall proceed
to give such judgment as the court below ought to have given if the
release had been made and filed therein."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

reverse or affirm the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Courts of any Territory except Washington, "in cases
where the value of the matter in dispute," (or as elsewhere
described, "where the value of the property or the amount in
controversy,") "to be ascertained by the oath of either party,
or of other competent witnesses, exceeds one thousand dollars," and, in the Territory of Washington, two thousand dollars; and also in all cases in any Territory, arising under the
Constitution and laws.of the United States, or in which the
Constitution or a statute or treaty of the United States is
brought in question; and in all cases upon writs of habeas
corpus involving the question of personal freedom. Rev. Stat.
ยง '702,1909-1911. By the act of March 3,1885, c.355, except
in cases inwhich isinvolved the validity of a patent or a copyright, or inwhich isdrawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States, "no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree, in any suit at law or in equity,
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the
Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars." 23 Stat. 443. This act
has not repealed the provision of the Revised Statutes giving
an appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory in cases of
habeas corpus. Gonzales v.Cunningham, 164 U. S.612. The
act of March 3, 1891, c'.
511, transferring to the Circuit Courts
of Appeals the appellate jurisdiction from the Supreme. Courts
of the Territories in cases founded on diversity of citizenship,
or arising under the patent, revenue or criminal laws, or in
admiralty, has not otherwise affected the appellate jurisdiction
of this court from the territorial courts. 26 Stat. 828, 830;
Shute v.Keyser, 149 U. S.649; Aztec Xining Co. v.Ripley,
151 U. S. 79.
Under the existing acts of Congress, therefore, (except in
the cases so transferred to- the Circuit Courts of Appeals,
and in cases of habeas corpus, cases involving the validity of a
copyright, and cases depending upon the Constitution or a
statute or treaty of the United States -none of whi6h classes

SIMMS v. SIMMS.
Opinion of the Court.

includes the case at bar) the appellate jurisdiction of this
court to review and reverse or affirm the final judgments and
decrees of the Supreme Court of a Territory includes those
cases, and those cases only, at law or in equity, in which "the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of
five thousand dollars."
In order to sustain the appellate jurisdiction of this court,
under such an enactment, the*matter in dispute must have
been money, or something the value of which oan be estimated
in money. ffrtz v. .fff, 115 U. S. 487, 495; 496, and cases
there cited; Durham v. Seymour, 161 U. S. 235; Perrinev.
&lack, 164 U. S. 452.
In support of the motion to dismiss this appeal because the
decree below concerned divorce and alimony only, the appellee
relied on Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582. In that case, a
majority of this court held that a wife who had obtained
against her husband, in the courts of the State of their
domicil, a decree, divorcing them from bed and board and
awarding alimony to her, might sue the husband for such
alimony in a Circuit Court of the United States held in a
State in which he had since become domiciled. Mr. Justice
Wayne, in delivering judgment, said: "We disclaim altogether
any jurisdiction in the courts of the United States upon the
subject of divorce, or for the allowance of alimony, either
as an original proceeding in chancery, or as an incident to a
divorce a vinculo, or to one from bed and board.
21 How.
584. And from that proposition there was no dissent. It
may therefore be assumed as indubitable that the Circuit
Courts of the United States have no jurisdiction, either of
suits for divorce, or of claims for alimony, whether made in
a suit for divorce, or by an original proceeding in equity,.
before a decree for such alimony in a state court. Within
the States of the Union, the whole subject of the domestic
relations of husband and wife, parent and child, belongs to
the laws of the State, and not to the laws of the United
States. In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 593, 594.
But those considerations have no application to the jurisdiction-of the courts of a Territory, or to the appellate juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

diction of this court over those courts. In the Territories of
the United States, Congress has the entire dominion and sovereignty, national and local, Federal and state, and has full
legislative power over all subjects upon which the legislature
of a State might legislate within the State; and may, at its
discretion, intrust that power to the legislative assembly of
a Territory. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48, and cases
cited; Utter- v. Franklin, 172 U. 'S.
416, 423. In the exercise
of this power, Congress has enacted that (with certain restrictions not affecting this case) "the legislative power of every
Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation,
not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United
States." Rev. Stat. ยง 1851; Act of July 30, 1886, c. 818; 24
Stat. 170. The power so conferred upon a territorial assembly covers the domestic relations, the settlement of estates,
and all other matters which, within the limits of. a State, are
regulated by the laws of the State only. Cope v. Cope, 137
U. S.682, 684.
By the territorial statutes of Arizona, the original jurisdiction of suits for divorce is vested in the district courts of the
Territory; and their final judgments in such suits, as in other
civil cases, may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory on writ of error or appeal. Arizona Rev. Stat. of
1887, tit. 34, c. 4; tit. 15, c. 20.
As already observed, the motion to dismiss, in the case
at bar, is made upon the twofold ground that the decree
appealed from is one concerning divorce and alimony only,
and that it is for no more than $5000.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory in favor
of the wife includes the dismissal of the husband's suit for
a divorce from the bond of matrimofty, and the award to the
wife, upon her motion, of the sum of $5250 for alimony and
counsel fees.
So far as the question of divorce was concerned, the matter
in controversy was the continuance or the dissolution of the
status or relation of marriage between the parties, and the
decree cannot be reviewed on this appeal; both because that
was a matter the value of which could not be estimated in

SIM-S V. SIM:S.
Opinion of the Court.

money; and because the refusal of the divorce involved no
matter of law, but mere questions of fact, depending on the
evidence, and-which this court is not authorized to reExamine.
Young v. Amy, 171 U. S. 179.
The decree for alimony and counsel fees, although in one
sense an incident to the suit for divorce, is a distinct and severable final judgment in favor of the defendant for a sum of
money of a sufficient jurisdictional amount; and is therefore
good ground of appeal, for the same reason that a judgment
for or against the defendant upon a counter clairm of like
amount would support the appellate jurisdiction. Dushane v.
Benedict, 120 U. S. 630, 636; Stuart v. Boulware, 133 U. S.
78; Block v. Darling,140 U. S. 234:.
It was argued for the appellee that the decree of the
Supreme Court of the Teri'itory in her favor for alimony and
* counsel fees was not really for more than the sum of $5000,
because before that decree was rendered, or the case submitted
to that court, she had filed a remittitur of the excess above that
SuM: But its final judgment, as actually entered, having been
for the sum of $5250, the question whether the remittitur waserroneously disregarded touched the question what that court
should have done, and not what it actually did; in other words,
a question of error, and not of jurisdiction.
Had there been no local statute on the subject of remittitur,
it would have been within the discreti6n of the court, before
rendering judgment, to allow a remittitur reducing the* sum
recovered below the amount required to sustain an appeal;
and, if the court had done so, and had rendered judgment for
the reduced sum, the appeal must have been dismissed. Alabama Ins. Co. v. N7icAols, 109 'U. S. 232; Paciic Telegraph
Co. v. O'Connor, 128 U. S. 394; Texas & Paciflg Railway v.
Ilorn, 151 .U. S. 110.
The making of a remittitur, in this case, did not depend upon
the discretion of the court, but was authorized and regulated
by the statutes of the Territory. While the right of appeal
to this court from the courts of the Territory is governed by
the acts of Congress, the proceedings in the territorial courts
are regulated by the territorial statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

-The Revised Statutes of the Territory of Arizona contain
full and explicit provisions upon this subject, which have been
set forth in the statement prefixed to this opinion. They
begin by providing that "any party in whose favor a judgment
has been rendered" in the district court "may in open court
remit any part of such judgment, and such remitter shall be
noted on the docket and entered in the minutes." This provision clearly includes any party, whether plaintiff or defendant, in whose favor a judgment for a sum of money has been
rendered; and it is applicable to the case of a wife who has
recovered a-judgment for alimony and counsel fees. The
provision of the next section is equally comprehensive, by
which "any party may make such remitter in vacation, by exeputing and filing with the clerk a release in writing, signed
by him or his attorney of record, and attested by the clerk
with the seal of his office," and "such release shall constitute
a part of the record of the cause." In whichever of those two
ways the remittitur is made, it is provided that "any execution
thereafter issued shall be for the balance only of the judgment after deducting the amount remitted," and that "the
remitter shall, from the making thereof, cure any error in the
judgment by reason of such excess."
Those statutes, in a subsequent section, provide that "if
in any judgment rendered in the district court there shall be
an excess of damages rendered, and, before the plaintiff has
entered a release of the same in such court in the manner provided by law, such judgment shall be removed to the Supreme
Court, it shall be lawful for the party in whose favor such
excess of damages has been rendered to make such release in
the Supreme Court in the same manner as such release is
required to be made in the district ccurt."
This section again, construed together with the earlier sections, clearly authorizes either party, whether plaintiff or
defendant, in whose favor a judgment for a sum of money
has been rendered in the district court, and who has made no
remittitur or release of part thereof in that court, to make the
same in the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The section concludes by enacting that, "upon such release

SIMMS v. SIMMJlS.
Opinion of. the Court.

being filed in said Supreme Court, the said court, after revising said judgment, shall proceed to give such judgment as-the
court below ought to have given if the release had been made
and filed therein."
The only departure from the provisions of these statutes in
the case at bar, as appearing by the record transmitted to this
court, is that the clerk's attestation upon the defendant's release or remittitur was a blank form without the clerk's signature or the seal of his office. But the appellant in his brief,
while contending in general terms that the course prescribed by
the statute had not been pursued, made no specific objection to
the proceedings except that the right to remit-was given to
the plaintiff only. And in the material parts of the record,
as set forth in the brief of the appellee, the attestation to the
release appears to have been signed by the clerk and under
seal. It is possible that the signature and seal may have been
inadvertently omitted in the record transmitted to this court.
But, however that may have been, the attestation of a release
filed in vacation, like the noting on the docket and entry in
the minutes of a remittitur made in open court, was an act to
be done by the clerk, and not by the party; its sole object
in either case was to verify the act of the party; and when,
as in this case, the release was executed by the party's attorneys of record, and was both filed and recorded in the
Supreme Court of the Territory, while the case was pending
in that court, we are of opinion that the statute was so substantially and sufficiently complied with as to render the
release of part of the judgment below valid, and to make it
the duty of that court to give effect to the release, and, according to the express terms of the statute, "after revising said
judgment," to "proceed to give such judgment as the court
below ought to have given if the release had been made and
filed therein."
If that court had duly given effect to the release,- and had
rendered in other respects the same decree that it has rendered, the case would not have been appealable. This case
is-appealable because, and solely because, the decree rendered
by that court is for a sum of more than $5000. If this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

were to dismiss the appeal, it could not modify the decree
appealed from, and the appellee would retain a decree, not
only for $5000, but also for $250 more, which she had legally
remitted and released before that decree was rendered. If
this court were to refxamine the merits of the case, the appellant would have the full benefit of an appeal which he could
not have taken at all, had that court acted rightly in a matter
wholly. independent of those merits.
The just and appropriate way of disposing of the case
appears to this court to be to affirm the validity of the release
or remittitur which the Supreme Court of the Territory erroneously ignored, to leave the case as if that court had performed its duty in this regard, and, without considering
whether there was any other error in the decree for alimony
and counsel fees, to order that the
Decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory.of Arizona
for $5250 be modified so as to stand as a decree for
$5000, and, as so modified, afirvied, witA costs.
MR. JuSToE WHITE and

MR. JUSTicE PEoKiAm dissented.

BROWN v. NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF OYER AND TERMINER OF HUDSON COU1TY,
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 290. Argued October 80, 1899. -Decided

November 20, 199.

Sections 75 and 76, of Chapter 237 of the Laws of New Jersey of 1898, contained the following provisions: "Sec. 75. The Supreme Court, Court
of Oyer and Terminer and Court of Quarter Sessions, respectively, or any
judge thereof, may on motion in behalf of the State, or defendant in any
indictment, order a jury to be struck for the trial thereof, and upon making said order the jury shall be struck, served and returned in the same
manner as in case of struck juries ordered in the trial of civil causes,
except as herein otherwise provided." "Sec. 76.' When a rule for a
struck jury shall be entered in any criminal case, the court granting such
rule may, on motion of the prosecutor, or of the defendant, or on its
own motion, select from the persons qualified to serve as jurors in and

