OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

COUDERT, Administrator, V. UNITED STATES.
"-ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 15. Argued October 10, 1899. -Decided

November 20, 1899.

Money derived from the sale of a vessel captured in 1863 as a blockade runner, which, pending proceedings in court for condemnation and forfeiture, was deposited by the marshal to await the further order of the
court in a national bank which was a special or designated depositary of
public moneys, and which deposit was in part lost by reason of the failure
of the bank, is not public money of the United States which may be recovered from it under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 369, 24 Stat. 505, generally known as the Tucker Act.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion.
Xfr. Frederic R. Coudert, Jr'., for plaintiff in error. .Mr.
Charles FredericAdams was on his brief.
21r. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for defendant in
error.
Mi. JUsToE MCKENXA delivered the opinion of the

court.

The plaintiff bases his right of action on the act of March 3,
1881, c. 359, known as the Tucker Act, 24 Stat. 505, and the
following facts:
In November, 1863, the United States vessel Granite -City
seized the Spanish bark Teresita, the property of Raphael
Madrazo, in the Gulf of Mexico as a blockade runner. Proceedings were instituted for her condemnation and forfeiture
in the District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
By order of the court, dated August 23, 1864, she and her
cargo were sold by the United States iiiarshal, and the proceeds of the sale, amounting to the sum of $10,359.20, after
deducting costs and other charges, were deposited by the marshal in the First National Bank of New Orleans, a special or
designated depositary of public moneys of the United States,

COUDERT, .Administrator, v. UNITED STATES.

179

Opinion of the Court.
to await the further order of the court. Judgment was subsequently rendered in favor of the claimant against the United
States, from which the latter appealed to the Supreme Court,
obtaining a supersedeas pending the appeal. The judgment
was affirmed and restitution of the vessel and cargo directed.
The Tere8ita, 5 Wall. 180.
Pending the appeal to the Supreme Court, the bank failed,
and a receiver was duly appointed of its assets. In liquidafing its affairs the receiver paid Madrazo during his lifetime,
and to'his representatives after his death, dividends amounting in all to $8183.87, the first payment May 1, 1871, the last
on September 28, 1882. Madrazo died in Cuba on the 14th
of April, 1877, and on the 20th of September, 1888, ancillary
letters of administration were issued in the county of New
York to the plaintiff in error.
After the payment of September 28, 1882, the receiver had
no further funds applicable to the claim. This action was
brought September 24, 1888, for the sum of $2175.43, the
balance of the proceeds of the sale after deducting the payments made by the receiver.
The Circuit Court rendered judgment for the plaintiff for
the amount claimed with interest from September 28, 1882.
The Circuit Qourt of Appeals reversed the judgment, 38 U. S.
App. 515, and the case was brought here.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the deposit of
the proceeds of the sale of the Teresita in the First National
Bank of New Orleans, then a depositary of the public moneys
of the United States, was a payment into the Treasury of the
United States, and hence a receipt thereof by the United States,
and, "consequently, a sum of money equal to the whole of such
net proceeds must be held to have become payable to the claimant by the United States under the decree of restitution wholly
irrespective of any loss of particular assets of the Treasury
through the failureof the bank."
A similar contention 'was made upon facts very much the
same in Branck v. United State8, 100 U. S. 673. In that case
certain cotton was seized under the Confiscation Act and sold
during the progress of a suit for its.condemnation by order of

OCTOBER TERIf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the court, and the proceeds deposited by the clerk to await
the further order of the court in the First National Bank of
Selma, Alabama, upon a notification of the Secretary of the
Interior that such bank had been designated by the Secretary
of the Treasury as a depositary of public money. The suit
was dismissed and judgment entered in favor of the defendants for costs. Pending the suit the bank failed, and in the
proceedings for winding up its affairs a dividend upon the
deposit was paid to the court, and then by order paid over to
the claimants. A suit was brought against the United States
for the balance of the original deposit upon the ground that
the Selma bank was at the time of the deposit a designated
depositary of public money and was part of the Treasury of
the United States, and that consequently a deposit in it was
a payment into the Treasury of the United States, binding
the latter to its return if the decision of the court should be
against condemnation. To the contention the court answered
by Chief Justice Waite: "The positipn assumed by the appellants is to our minds wholly untenable. The designated
depositaries are intended as places for the deposit of the
public moneys of the United States; that is to say, moneys
belonging to the United States. No officer of the United
States can charge the Government with liability for moneys
in his hands not public moneys by depositing them to his own
credif in a bank designated as a depositary. In this case, the
money deposited belonged for the time being to the court, and
was held as a trust fund pending the litigation. The United
States claimed it, but their claim was contested. So long as
this contest remained undecided, the officers of the Treasury
could not control the fund. Although deposited with a bank
that was a designated depositary, it was not paid into the
Treasury. No one could withdraw it except the court or
the clerk, and it was held for the benefit of whomsoever in
the end it should. be found to belong."
But that case is claimed to be distinguished from the pending one because the Confiscation Act, under which the Branch
case was decided, contained no provision for the deposit in the
Treasury, pendente lite, of the proceeds of property seized but
not yet ,#nalky condemned.

COUDE]RT, Administrator, v. UNITED STATES.

181

Opinion of the Court.

In other words, the argument is that there was no provision
in the Confiscation Act which required, a deposit of the proceedg of the sale of property seized, and hence the deposit
was the personal act of the officer, neither directed nor authorized by law, and did not charge the United States with responsibility, but that in the pending case, in pursuance of law, the
deposit was virtually in the Treasury of the United States and
became the property of the United States -"assets of the
Treasury " - and subject, as public moneys are subject, to
the use of the United States, and that the relatiov of debtor
and creditor was created between the owner of the property
sold and the United States.
The argument concedes, and necessarily, that there must
have been authority or requirement of law for the deposit
in this case. Was there such authority or requirement? It
is claimed to have been contained in certain statutes of the
United States which enabled the Secretary of the Treasury
to designate national banks as public depositaries and by the
acts of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 759, c. 86, and June 30, 1861,
c. 174, 13 Stat. 308.
The latter acts respectively provided, with some difference of
expression and detail, that "prize property" may be ordered
sold by the court _pendente lite, and upon any sale it shall be
the duty of the marshal "forthwith to deposit the gross proceeds of the sale with the Assistant Treasurer of the United
States nearest the place of sale, subject to the order of the
court in the particular case." This direction of the statutes
was not complied with. Its practical and legal alternative,
it is contended, was complied with by a deposit of the proceeds of the sale of the Teresita in the New Orleans bank,
then a public depositary, which by such designation became
the Treasury of the United States.
It is impracticable to quote all the provisions of law in
regard to the deposit, keeping and disbursement of the moneys
of the United States. They will be found with a*reference to
the statutes of which they are the reproduction in the Revised
Statutes of the United States, Title XL, Public Moneys. It
is sufficient to say that places of deposit of the public moneys

OCTOBER TERf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

are provided, and the duty of the officers who receive and disburse them. From these provisions it will be seen that the
public moneys of the United States are the revenues of. the
United States from all sources, and the gross amount received
must first be paid into the Treasury. (Secs. 3617 and 3618.)
They are then subject to the draft of the Treasurer of the
United States drawn agreeably to appropriations made by
law. (Secs. 3593 and 3642. See also sec. 3210.)
From this summary we may more clearly understand the
particular provisions of law which were applicable to public
depositaries at the time of the deposit in this case. They
were contained in the act of March 3, 1857, c. 114, 11 Stat. 249,
ยง 3621, Rev. Stat., and in section 45 of the General Banking
Act of June 3, 18641, c. 106, 13 Stat. 99, 113; ยง 3620, Rev. Stat.
The first act provided that "every disbursing oflicer- or
agent of the United States having any noney of the United
States intrusted to him for disbursement shall be and is hereby
required to deposit the same with the Treasurer -of the United
States or with some one of the Assistant Treasurers or public
depositaries, and .draw for the same only in favor of the persons to whom payment is to be made in pursuance of law and
instructions; except when payments are to be made in sums
under twenty dollars, in which case such disbursing agent
may check in his own name, stating that it is to pay small
claims."
The second act provided that "all associations under this
act, when designated for that purpose by the Secretary of
the Treasury, shall be depositaries of public money, except
receipts from customs, under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary; they may also be employed as
financial agents of the government; and they shall perform
all such reasonable duties, as depositaries of public moneys
and financial agents of the government, as may be required
of them. And the Secietary of the Treasury shall require
of the associations thus designated satisfactory security, by
the deposit of United States bonds and otherwise, for the
safekeeping and prompt payment of the public money deposited with them, and for the faithful performance of their

COUDERT, Administrator, v. UNITED STATES.

183

Opinion of the Court.

duties as financial agents of the government; Provided, that
every association which shall be selected and designated as
receiver or depositary of the public money shall take and
receive at par all of the national currency bills, by whatever
association issued, which have been paid into the government
for internal revenue or for loans or stocks."
It was also provided by the act of August 6,1846, sec. 3616,
Rev. Stat., "All marshals, district attorneys and other persons
than those mentioned in the preceding section, having public
money to pay to the United States, may pay the same to any
depositary constituted by or in pursuance of law which may
be designated by the Secretary of th6 Treasury."
It is obvious from, these provisions that it was only publie
money of the United States of which national banks could
be made depositaries, and it was therefore only public money
which an offlcer could deposit in them, 'whether -he received
it originally or received it t6 disburse. This is the ruling in
the Branch case, .and it is clearly applicable to the case at bar.
By the seizure of the Teresita the title to her did not change
nor the title to the proceeds of her sale,.pendente lite. That
awaited adjudication, and whatever relations to such pioceeds
or responsibility for them the United States might have
assumed if they had been deposited with an Assistant Treasurer, they did not become public money and subject to the
statutes applicable to public money, and authorized to be
deposited in a public depositary.
It is not without significance that when Congress authorized
"moneys paid into any court of the United States, or received
by the officers thereof, in any cause pending or adjudicated in
such court," to be deposited with a .designated depositary, it
required it to be done "in the name and to the credit of such
court," and not to the credit of the United States. Act of
March 24, 1871, c. 2, 17 Stat. 1.
Judgment afflimed.
NOTm.-This case stood on the docket in the name of Charles Coudert
as ancillary executor. Just before it was reached for argument, his death
was suggested, and the appearance of Paul Fuller as administrator was
entered.

