OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

were to dismiss the appeal, it could not modify the decree
appealed from, and the appellee would retain a decree, not
only for $5000, but also for $250 more, which she had legally
remitted and released before that decree was rendered. If
this court were to refxamine the merits of the case, the appellant would have the full benefit of an appeal which he could
not have taken at all, had that court acted rightly in a matter
wholly. independent of those merits.
The just and appropriate way of disposing of the case
appears to this court to be to affirm the validity of the release
or remittitur which the Supreme Court of the Territory erroneously ignored, to leave the case as if that court had performed its duty in this regard, and, without considering
whether there was any other error in the decree for alimony
and counsel fees, to order that the
Decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory.of Arizona
for $5250 be modified so as to stand as a decree for
$5000, and, as so modified, afirvied, witA costs.
MR. JuSToE WHITE and

MR. JUSTicE PEoKiAm dissented.

BROWN v. NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF OYER AND TERMINER OF HUDSON COU1TY,
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 290. Argued October 80, 1899. -Decided

November 20, 199.

Sections 75 and 76, of Chapter 237 of the Laws of New Jersey of 1898, contained the following provisions: "Sec. 75. The Supreme Court, Court
of Oyer and Terminer and Court of Quarter Sessions, respectively, or any
judge thereof, may on motion in behalf of the State, or defendant in any
indictment, order a jury to be struck for the trial thereof, and upon making said order the jury shall be struck, served and returned in the same
manner as in case of struck juries ordered in the trial of civil causes,
except as herein otherwise provided." "Sec. 76.' When a rule for a
struck jury shall be entered in any criminal case, the court granting such
rule may, on motion of the prosecutor, or of the defendant, or on its
own motion, select from the persons qualified to serve as jurors in and

BROWN v. NEW JERSEY.
Statement of the Case.
for the county in which any indictment was found, whether the names
of such persons appear on the sheriff's book of persons qualified to serve
as jurors in and for such county or not, ninety-six names, with their
places of abode, from which the prosecutor and the defendant shall each
strike twenty-four names in the usual way, and the remaining forty-eight
names shall be placed by the sheriff in the box in the.presence of the
court, and from the names so placed in the box the jury shall be drawn
in the usual way." By sections 80 and 81 it was provided that where
there is no struck jury, and the party is on trial for murder, he is entitled
to twenty peremptory challenges, and the State to twelve; but in the
case of a "struck jury" each party is allowed only five peremptory
challenges: Held,
(1) That these provisions are not in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States;
(2) That the highest court of the State of New Jersey having held that
they are not in conflict with the constitution of that State, this
court Is foreclosed on that question by that decision.

THE plaintiff in error was, on October 5, 1898, in the
Court of Oyer and Terminer of Hudson County, New
Jersey, found, guilty of the crime of murder. On.March 6,
1899y the judgment of the Court of Oyer and -Terminer was
affirmed by the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals, and
the case being remanded to the trial court, plaintiff in error
was, on April 19, 1899, sentenced to be hanged. The jury
which tried the case was what is known to the New Jersey
statutes as a "struck jury," authority for which is found in
c. 237, Laws of New Jersey, 1898, p. 894. Sections 75 and 76
read as follows:
." SEC. 75. The Supreme Court, Court of Oyer and Terminer
and Court' of Quarter Sessions, respectively, or any judge
thereof, may, on motion in behalf of the State, or defendant
in any indictment, order a jury to be struck for the trial
thereof, and upon making said order the jury shall be struck,
served and returned in the same manner as-in case of, struckjuries ordered in the trial of civil causes, except as herein Otherwise provided.
"SEC. 76. When a rule for a struck jdry shall be entered in
any criminal case, the court granting such rule may, on motion
of the prosecutor, or of the defendant, or bn its own nlotion,
select from the persons qualified to serve as jurors in and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the county in which any indictment was found, whether the
names of such persons appear on the sheriff's book of persons
qualified to serve as jurors in and for such county or. not,
ninety-six names, with their places of abode, from which the.
prosecutor and the defendant shall each strike twenty-four
names in the usual way, and the remaining forty-eight names
shall be placed by the sheriff in the box, in the presence of the
court, and from the names so placed in the box the jury shall
be drawn in the usual way."
By sections 80 and 81 of that statute, where there is no
"struck jury" and the party is on trial for murder, he is
entitled to twenty peremptory challenges and the State to
twelve, but in the case of a "struck jury" each party is
allowed only five peremptory challenges.

.M'. William D. Daly for plaintiff in error.

.r. Joseph, X

-Noonanwas with him on the brief.
Mr. James S. Erwin for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTmE BRw.ER, after making the above statement of
the case, delivered thd opinion of the court.

That "the statutory provisions for a struck jury are not in
conflict with the constitution of New Jersey is for this court
foreclosed by the decision of the highest court of the State.
Louisianav. Pilsbury,105 U. S. 278, 294; Hallingerv. Davis,
146 U. S. 314, 319; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506.
The first ten amendments to the Federal Constitution contain no restrictions on the powers of the State, but were
intended to operate solely on Federdl Government. Barron
v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410; Twitchell
v. Commonwealth, 7 Wall. 321 ; United States *v. Cruikskank-,
92 U. S. 549, 552; Spies v. ilinois, 123 U. S. 131; In 're
Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 219; .Eilenbecker v. District Court of
Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31; Davis v. Texas, 139 U. S"
651; .XkElovainev. Brush,142 U. S. 155; Thorington v. .ontgone'&y, 147 U. S. 490; .Xiller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535..

BRO~W1N v. NEW JERSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The State has full control over the procedure in its courts,
both in civil and criminal cases, subject only to the qualification that such procedure must not work a denial of fundamental rights or conflict with specific and applicable provision§ of
the Federal Constitution. Ex. arte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642;
Iowa Central Railway v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Chicago, Burlington &, Quincy Railroadv. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. "The
Fourteenth Amendment does not profess to secure to all persons in the United States the benefit of the same laws and
the same remedies. Great diversities in these respects may
exist in two States separated only by an imaginary line. On
one side of this line there may be a right of trial by jury,
and on the other side no such right. Each State prescribes
its own modes of judicial proceeding." Xissouri v. Lewis,
101 U. S. 22, 31.
The State is not tied down by any provision of the Federal
Constitution to the practice and procedure which existed at
the common law. Subject to the limitations heretofore named
it may avail itself of the wisdom gathered by the experience
of the century to make such changes as may be necessary.
For instance, while at the common law an indictment by the
grand jury was an essential preliminary to trial for felony, it
is within the power of a State to abolish the grand jury
entirely and proceed by information. Hurtado v. California,
110 U. S.516.
In providing for a trial by a struck jury, empanelled in accordance with the provisions of the New Jersey statute, no fundamental right of the defendant is trespassed upon. The manner
of selection is one calculated td secure an impartial jury, and
the purpose of criminal procedure is not to enable the defendant to select jurors, but to secure an impartial jury. "The
accused cannot complain if he is still tried by an impartial
jury. He can demand nothing more. _'orthernPacifc Railroad v. Berbert, 116 U. S. 642. The right to challenge is the
right to reject, not to select a juror. If from those who
remain an impartial jury is obtained, the constitutional right
of the accused is maintained." Hayes v. Xiseouri, 120 U. S.
68, 71.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Due process and equal protection of the laws are guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, and this amendment operates
to restrict the powers of the State, and if trial by a struck
jury conflicts with either of these specific provisions it cannot be sustained. A perfectly satisfactory definition of due
process may perhaps not be easily stated. In llurtado v.
California, 110 U. S. 516, 537, Mr. Justice Matthews, after
reviewing previous declarations, said: "It follows that any
legal proceeding enforced by public authority, whether sanctioned by age and custom or newly devised in the discretion
of the legislative power, in furtherance of the general public
good, which regards and preserves these principles of liberty
and justice, must be held to be due process of law." In Leeper
v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462,468, Chief Justice Fuller declared "that
law in its regular course of administration through courts of
justice is due process, and when secured by the law of the
State the constitutional requirement is satisfied." Within any
and all definitions trial by a struck .jury in the manner prescribed muqt, when authorized by a statute, valid under the
constitution of the State, be adjudged due process. A struck
jury was not unknown to the common law, though, as urged
by counsel for plaintiff in error, it may never have been resorted
to in trials for murder. But if appropriate for and used in
criminal trials for certain offences, it could hardly be deemed
essentially bad when applied to other offences. It gives the
defendant a reasonable opportunity to ascertain the qualifications of proposed jurors, and to protect himself against any supposed prejudices in the mind of any particular individual called
as a juror. Whether better or not than any other method, it
is certainly a fair and reasonable way of securing an impartial jury, was provided for by the laws of the State, and that
is all that due process in this respect requires.
It is said that the equal protection of the laws was denied
because the defendant was not given the same number of
peremptory challenges that he would have had in a trial
before an ordinary jury. In the latter case he would have
been entitled under the statute to twenty peremptory challenges, but when a struck jury is ordered he is given only five.

BROWN v. 1NEW JERSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

But that a State may make different arrangements for trials
under different circumstances of even the same class of offences,
has been already settled by this court. Thus, in .Msouri v.
Lewis, 101 U. S. 2, in certain parts of the State an appeal
was given from a final judgment of a trial court to the Supreme
Court of the State, while in other parts this was denied; and
it was held that a State might establish one system of law in
one portion of its territory and a different system in another,
and that in so doing there was no violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. So, in Hayes v. -Missouri,120 U: S. 68, it
appeared that a certain number of peremptory challenges
was allowed' in cities of over 100,000 inhabitants, while a less
number was permitted in other portions of the State. It
was held that that was no denial of the equal protection of
the laws, the court saying, page 71: "The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States does not prohibiit
legislation which is limited either in the objects to which it is
directed, or by the territory within which it is to operate. It
merely requires that all persons subjected to such legislation
shall be treated alike, under like circumstances and conditions,'
both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed."
It is true that here there is no terrilorial distribution, but
in all cases in which a struck jury is ordered the same number
of challenges is permitted, as similarly in all cases in which
the trial is .by an ordinary jury. Either party, State or defendant, may apply for a struck jury, and the matter is one which
is determined by the court in the exercise of a sound discretion. There is no mere arbitrary power in this respect, any
more than in the granting or refusing of a continuance. The
fact that in one case the plaintiff or defendant is awarded a
continuance and in another is refused does not make in either a
denial of the equal protection of the laws. That in any given
case the discretion of the court in awarding a trial by a struck
jury was improperly exercised may perhaps present a matter
for consideration on appeal, but it amounts to nothing more.
Perceiving no error in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.
Mn. Jusion. HARLAi concurred in the result.
VOL. CLXxv-12

