OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

nature, we hold that clearly where a patent is authorized to
be issued to the party in possession, the statutes refer the
contest to the ordinary tribunals, which are to determine the
rights of the parties without any controversy as to the construction of those acts, but are to be guided by the laws,
regulations and customs of the mining district in which the
lands are situated. In a case, therefore, like the present,
where Federal jurisdiction does not arise because the parties
are citizens of different States, and where no question is made
as to the meaning and construction of the statutes of the
United States, the state courts are to be regarded, within the
letter and meaning of section 2326, as courts of "competent
jurisdiction to determine, the right of possession." The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.
MR.JUsTICE "MoKEINNA dissented.
MR. JsTicE BRowN

did not sit in this case, and took no

part in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
APPEAL FROMd THE COURT OF CLAW .
No. 59. Argued December T, 8,199.-Decided January 8,1900.
The United States, through an officer of Engineers, contracted with the
appellees to excavate rock within a fixed time. The contract contained
the following provisions among others: "If, in any event, the party
of the second part shall delay or fail to commence with the delivery of
the material or the performance of the work on the day specified herein,
or shall, in the judgment of the engineet in charge, fail to prosecute
faithfully and diligently the work in accordance with the specifications
and requirements of this contract, then in either case the party of the
first part, or his successor legally appointed, shall have power, with the
sanction of the Chief of Engineers, to annul this contract by giving notice
in writing to that effect to the party or parties (or either of them) of the
second part, and upon the giving of such notice all money or reserved
percentage due or to become due to the party or parties of the second
part by reason of this contract shall be and become forfeited -to the
United States ; and the party of the first part shall be thereupon author-

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.
ized, if an immediate performance of the work or delivery of the materials be, in his opinion, required by the public exigency, to proceed to
provide for the same by open purchase or contract, as prescribed in
section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the.United States ; provided;
however, that if the party or parties of the second part shall, by
freshet, ice or other force or violence of the' elements, and-by no
fault of his or their own, be prevented either from commencing or completing the work or delivering the materials at the time agreed upon
in this contract, such additional time may in writing be allowed him or them for such commencement or completion as, in the judgment of the
party of the first part or his successor, shall be just and reasonable; but
such allowance and extension shall in no manner affect the rights or
obligations of the parties under this contract, but the same shall subsist,
take effect and be enforceable precisely as if the new date for such commencement or completion had been the date originally herein agreed
upon." Held that, under a proper construction of this contract, the
right or privilege of the contractors, if they failed to complete their
work within the time limited, to have a further extension or extensions
of time, depended upon the judgment of the engineer in charge when
applied to to grant such extension; and that no allegation or finding is
shown in this record sufficient to justify the court in setting aside the
judgment of the engineer as having been rendered in bad faith, or in
any dishonest disregard of the rights of the contracting parties.

Tais appeal is from a decision of the Court of Claims covering two suits in that court, Nos. 17,782 and 17,783, consolidated and heard and decided as .onesuit, in which judgment
was entered for the plaintiffs.
The first suit was on a contract entered into August 4,
1885, between Lieutenant Colonel W. E. Merrill, Corps of Engineers, United States Army, for and on behalf of the United
States, and John R. Gleason and George W. Gosnell as partners, for the excavation of 110,000 cubic yards, more or less,
of rock, in the improvement of the head of the Louisville
and Portland Canal at Louisville, Kentucky, which excavation
was called, in this litigation, the Upper Work.
The second suit was on a contract entered into January 13,
1887, between Major Amos Stickney, of the Engineer Corps
of the United States Army, for and on behalf of the United
States, and the firm of Gleason & Gosnell, for the excavation
of 124,000 cubic yards of earth and 13,000 cubic yards of rock,
more or less, for enlarging the basin near the lower end of the
same canal, and called herein the Lower Work.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

In the first suit, upon findings of fact and law, there was a
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for retained percentage in
the sum of $3011.99, and for net profits which they would
have made if they had been allowed to complete the work in
the sum of $60,537.50. In the second suit there was a judgment for retained percentage in the sum of $2401, and for net
profits, if the contract had been carried on to completion, in
the sum of $2827.50. The aggregate judgment in. the two
cases was for the sum of $68,777.99.
There was a motion for a new trial, which was overruled,
and also for an amendment of the findings of fact, which was
granted in part. Thereupon this appeal was taken.
The findings of fact in the suit upon the first contract were
as follows:
"I. On August 4, 1885, Lieutenant Colonel William E. Merrill, Corps of Engineers, United States Army, for and on behalf
of the United States, party of the first part, and John R. Gleason and George W. Gosnell, partners, of the second part, entered into the contract and specifications set out in full with
and made a part of the petition herein, whereby the claimants
agreed to commence work on or before August 20, 1885, and
make '110,000 cubic 'yards, more or less, of rock excavation
in the enlargement of the Louisville and Portland Canal,' as
therein provided for, at the rate of 85 cents per cubic yard,
and to complete the same on or before December 31, 1886.
"Said contract further, and among other things, provided
that -

"1If, in any event, the party of the second part shall delay
or fail to commence with the delivery of the material or the
performance of the work on the day specified herein, or shall,
in the judgment of the engineer in'charge fail to prosecute
faithfully and diligently the work in accordance with the specifications and requirements of this contract, then in either case
the party of the first part, or his successor legally appointed,
shall have power, with the sanction of the Chief of Engineers,
to annul this contract by giving notice in writing to that effect
to the party or parties (or either of them) of the second part,
and upon the giving of such notice all money or reserved per-

UNITED STATES v. GIaEASON.
Statement of the Case.

centage due or to become due to the party or parties of the
second part by reason of this contract shall be and become forfeited to the United States; and the party of the first part
shall be thereupon authorized, if an immediate performance
of the work or delivery of the materials be, in his opinion,
required by the public exigency, to proceed to provide for the
same by open purchase or contract, as prescribed in section 3709
of the Revised Statutes of the United States; provided, however, that if the party or parties of the second part shall, by
freshets, ice or other force or violence of the elements, and by
no fault of his or their own, be prevented either from commencing or completing the work or delivering the materials at the
time agreed upon in this contract, such additional time may
in writing be allowed him or them for such commencement or
completion as, in the judgment of the party of the first part or
his successor, shall be just and reasonable; but such allowance
and extension shall in no manner affect the rights or obligations of the parties under this contract, but the same shall subsist, take effect and be enforceable precisely as if the new date
for such commencement or completion had been-the date originally herein agreed upon.'
"IH. The season from August, 1885, to December 31, 1886,
was favorable in the main for the character of work provided
for by the contract, though the claimants were compelled by
reason of high water and freshets to suspend their operations
a number of times, and by reason of these difficulties, coupled
with an insufficient force of men and other means necessary
for the performance of the work, they only ' completed 14 per
cent of their entire workI during the contract period, 1 per
cent of which was done in 1885.
"IH. In consequence of the claimants' inability to.complete
the work within the contract period, as aforesaid, they requested
an extension of their contract to December 31, 1887, which
was .granted on conditions stated in a supplemental contract,
as follows:
"'Articles of Agreement.
"'Supplemental articles of agreement entered into this 21st
day of January, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven (1887),

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

between Major Amos Stickney, Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army,
of the first part, and John R. Gleason and George W. Gosnell,
partners, doing business under the firm name of Gleason &
Gosnell, of Louisville, of the county of Jefferson, State of Kentucky, of the second part.
"' This agreement witnesseth that the said Major Amos
Stickney, for and in behalf of the United States of America,
and the said Gleason & Gosnell, for themselves, their heirs,
executors and administrators, have mutually agreed, and by
these presents do mutually covenant'and agree, to and with
each other as follows:
"' That the time for completing the contract signed by the
said Gleason & Gosnell. August 4th (fourth), eighteen hundred
and eighty-five (1885), for rock excavation in the enlargement
of the Louisville and Portland Canal, be extended to December 31st (thirty-first), eighteen hundred and eighty-b:ven (1887);
upon the following conditions, viz.:
"'First. That the said Gleason & Gosnell shall so arrange
their excavation on the line common to sections 2 (two) and 3
(three) as not to interfere with the government work of contractor IMolloy or the work of the contractor for the new wall
of the said Louisville and Portland Canal.
"'Second. That should the said Gleason & Gosnell fail to
employ a sufficient force, not less than three hundred (300)
men, or its equivalent in machinery, to finish their work in the
required time, then the officer in charge shall be authorized to
perform any of the work in his discretion, and deduct the cost
from any money due or to become due the said Gleason &
Gosnell.'
"The foregoing agreement was made subject to approval of
the Chief of the Engineers, United States Army, and was thereafter duly approved by the acting Secretary of War.
"IV. The claimants not having completed their contract
during the year's extension thereof as aforesaid, they, on December 31, 1887, requested a second e-tension of said contract to
December 31,1888, for the reasons set forth in their communication of that date, which is as follows:

UIITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.

"' LouIsvILLE, KY. -Deo. 318t, 1887.
"'Major Amos STIoxm-y,
"' Corp of Engineers, U. S. A.
"'D.AR Sim: We respectfully ask an extension of time on
our contract for enlarging the Louisville and Portland Canal'
at the head of the Falls of the Ohio River until the 31st of
December, 1888, for the following reasons, to wit:
"' There was so much work being done upon railroads during the last year throughout the State that labor was very
hard to get.
"'We used every effort to secure the required amount of
labor on our contracts, but found it impossible to do so. We
even employed agents in New York and other cities to procure and ship labor to us here, and then found it very difficult
to hold the labor we obtained, although we paid more than
contractors paid for labor on, railroads. Besides, the summer season was excessively hot; so very hot, that for sixty to
ninety days, in many instances, the men would work only two
or three hours a day.
"' We propose to provide not less than ninety cars of the
same capacity as those now used, and a sufficient number of
carts and teams in addition, if necessary, to move not less than
640 cubic yards (measured in place) of excavated rock per day
of ten hours.
"I We propose to build an additional incline for depositing
excavated material, the minimum actual working capacity
of both inclines to be not less than 640 cars per day of ten
hours.
"'We propose to provide, maintain and operate not less
than ten steam drills on the work and to provide and operate
a sufficient force of men to excavate and handle at least 640
cubic yards of rock (measured in place) per day of ten hours.
"'The method of carrying on the work will be such as will
be appr6ved by the officer in charge.
"'When practicable, during the summer season, we propose
to provide and operate an adequate force at night.
"' All additional plant will be obtained and available for use
by the time rock excavation can be commenced, and we proVOL. CLXV-38

594 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

pose to bear all extra cost to the United States occasioned by
the extension of time for completing our contract.'
"Which letter was forwarded to the Chief of Engineers
with the following communication:
"' U. S. ENGINEER OFIOE,
"'LOUISvILLE,

Ky.,

December 318t, 1881.

"'The CHnw op ENGINEERS, U. S. Army,
"' Washington, D. C.
"'GENERIL: I have the honor to forward herewith an appli-

cation of Gleason & Gosnell for the extension of time for
completion of their contract on work of excavating for
-enlargement of the head of the Louisville and Portland
Canal.
"' The work of these contractors during the past season has
been exceedingly unsatisfactory. Whilst they have had some
difficulties to contend with in procuring labor, they have not
conducted their work in a manner to produce the best results,
and hardly seemed to comprehend the magnitude of their
undertaking.
"' After a number of consultations with the contractors and
their principal bondsman, I have, however, concluded that the
interests of the government will be best served by an extension of time with the provisions which they have inserted in
their application.
"'These provisions call for nearly double the plant heretofore used and the adoption of method of work which will be
approved by the engineer in charge; also the bearing of all
extra expense to the United States occasioned by the exten-sion of time. With these provisions, I believe the engineer
officer in charge will be able to push the work more rapidly
than if it were yelet to other contractors. I therefore recommend that the time for completing of their contract be
extended as requested to December 31, 1888, on condition
that the provisions in their application are faithfully carried
out.'
"The extension of the time of said contract to December

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.

31, 1888, as requested and recommended, was granted and
approved by the Chief of Engineers 'on condition that the
provisions in their application are faithfully carried out,' of
which approval the claimants were notified by the following
letter:
"'U. S. ENGMnEER OFFoE,

"'IouisviL,

Ky., Januay 9th, 1883.

"'Messrs. GLEASON & Gos~Nmm,
" Iouisville, -y.
"'Sins: You are hereby notified that the time for completion of your contract for excavation in enlargement of the head
of the Louisville and Portland Canal is extended to December
31, 1888, on condition that the provision in your letter -of
December 31, 1887, a copy of which is inclosed, shall be faithfully carried out. Any failure to carry out these provisions
will terminate your contract.
"'Very respectfully,
"'Amos STICKNEY,
"'.Major of Fmgineers, U. S. A.'
"V. The rock to be excavated under the contract, was in
the river bed in an exposed situation, and was exposed to
great force of the river when the latter rose to stages above
the top of the government cross dam, which cross dam was
5 feet high, measured by the canal gauge.
"VI. Before the contract aforesaid was entered into the
engineer in charge prepared specifications for the information
of bidders, which were exhibited to the claimants, and on the
faith of which they entered into the contract. These specifi-.
cations (7) contained the provision that the contractor ' must
begin work within twenty days after notification that his bid
has been accepted, unless hindered by high water.'
"They were advised by the ninth specification so exhibited
that their contract would provide 'that additional time may
be allowed to a contractor for beginning or completing his
work in cases of delay from freshets, ice or other force or
violence of the elements, and by no fault of his or their own.!
"1VII. The condition of the Ohio*River was during the sea-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

son of 1888, the period of the last extension, unusual and
unprecedented for repeated and continued freshets and high
water, overflowing the cross dam aforesaid; in consequence of
which freshets and high water the working season of 1888,
in the Ohio River at Louisville, Ky., was limited to about
thirty-five days, mostly in July and August, as will more fully
appear from the official monthly report of the defendants'
officers of the progress of the work (known as section 3) from
December, 1887, to December, 1888, as follows:
"'1DECEMBER, 1887.
"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, very little
was done in December, except the removal of loose material
which had been left above grade and in getting out machinery
in anticipation of closing for the season. The water is several
feet deep over both sections.'

"'MAo-, 1888.
"'The stage of the river has prevented any work being done
on the contracts of John Molloy, Gleason & Gosnell, and the
Salem Stone and Lime Co.'
"'APRIL, 1888.
"'No work has been done by the contractors on account of
high water in the upper section.'

'MAY, 1888.

"'No excavation has been made by the contractors for the
upper sections on account of high water.'
'JuNE, 1888.
"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, a temporary
earth dam has been constructed, the pumps started, and
drilling on high points of rock begun. The first blasting was
done June 30th.'

"'JULY, 1888.
"' On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, drilling on

high points of rock was continued and a temporary dam of

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.

earth finished. The pit was pumped out and tracks surfaced.
The contractors were run out by high water on the 11th
instant and have not resumed.'
"'AUGUST, 1888.
"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, excavation
was continued until the 18th of August, on which date the
work was flooded by high water.'

"'SEPTEEiEm,

1888.

"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, no work has
been done since the contractors were run out by high water
in August.'
"'OCTOBm., 1888.

"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell, contractors, a temporary
earth dam was begun on October 5th. The contractors' pump
was started on October 9th, and on the 11th the river washed
away the dam, since which time no work has been done.'
"'NovM-B ,R,

1888.

"'On section 3, Gleason & Gosnell have done no work since
October 11th. The river has been over their section since
that date.'
C' DECEMBEB, 1888.

"'No work has been done by the contractors during the
month. The contract of Gleason & Gosuell expired on
December 31st.'
*

*

*

*-

*

"VIII. During the working season of 1888 the claimants
were diligent in the prosecution of work embraced in the contract, in preparing therefor, and in endeavoring to exclude the
water and freshets of the river.
"They provided for the additional plant mentioned in their
application for extension and had it ready for operation at the
beginning of the season of 1888. But there was insufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

working time to complete the work by December 31, 1888, at
the rate of 640 cubic yards for each practicable working day
of twenty-four hours, and this from no fault of the claimants
during the last extension of their said contract. No act or
omission of the claimants during the period of the last extension made it impossible to complete the work by December
31, 1888.
"IX. The force of the defendants' officer in charge of this
same work after December 31, 1888, was, by reason of the
overflow of the river, compelled to cease the work of excavation, to wit, in 1889 and 1890, at stages of water at from 6.1
to 6.10 feet, and they did not complete the work in three
seasons subsequent to 1888.
"X. After the working season of 1888 the claimants,
through the personal solicitation of their attorneys, Bodley &
Simrall, applied to the engineer in charge for an allowance of
additional time fo#the completion of the work agreed upon in
the contract so extended for the reason that they had been, by
freshets and force and violence of the elements and by no
fault of their own, prevented from completing the work at
the time agreed upon in the contract, whereupon the engineer
in charge refused to allow such additional time.
"The defendants, nor the engineer officer in charge on their
behalf, did not annul or terminate the contract as therein provided for by reason of any delay or for any want of faithfulness or diligence on the part of the claimants in the prosecution of the work thereunder during the period of the last
extension of said contract, but based his refusal to further
extend the bontract, because, as he asserted, the claimants had
for a number of seasons failed to complete the work within
the times agreed upon.
"No judgment or decision was given by said engineer on
the question as to whether the (J. R.) claimants were prevented by freshets and force and violence of the elements
during the season of 1888 from completing the work agreed
upon within the period limited by the last extension of the
contract, nor did he find or decide that the claimants were
not so prevented.

UXNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.

ccXI. The amount of the reserved 10 per centum under
said contract is $3011.99, and has never been paid by the
defendants to the claimants.
"XII. The total amount of rock in the'area covered by the
contract, as finally estimated by the defendants, was 118,935.22
cubic yards, of which the claimants had removed 35,435.22
cubic yards, leaving unremoved at the end of the season of
1888, 83,500 cubic yards.
",XIII. The cost to the claimants of performing this remaining work, 83,500 cubic yards, would have been $1.25 per cubic
yard, and their total loss thereon at the contract price therefor would have been 40 cents per cubic yard, or $33,400.
"XIV. Under the specifications (2), made part of the contract and set out in the petition aforesaid, it is provided that
'all material excavated under this contract will be the property of the contractor, and must be disposed of in such manner as not to interfere with navigation, of which the engineer
in charge shall be the judge. The contractor is forbidden to
desposit any excavated material on canal property without
permission.'
"Every yard of solid rock would have produced, by crushing, 1i yards of broken stone, and upon this basis the remaining rock in the area covered by the contract at the end of the
season of 1888 would have produced 125,250 cubic yards of
broken stone.
"X1V. The rock, when excavated and crushed, was a valuable commodity, for which there was a ready market in Louisville at $1.25 per cubic yard.
"1XVI. The cost to the claimants of crushing and delivering
the rock for the market was 50 cents per cubic yard and the
net value to the claimants of the crushed and delivered rock
was 75 cents per cubic yard, or $93,937.50, less the loss of
$33,400, as set forth in Finding. XIII, leaving $60,537.50 as the
claimants' net profit under the contract for the remaining
work.
"XVJI. From the foregoing official reports, as well as
from the other facts found herein, the court finds the ultimate
fact that the condition of the river was as herein set forth;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opiulon of the Court.

and the time remaining for active work, after deducting the
time when it was impossible to do work by reason of the
high water and freshets, was insufficient for the completion of
the work under the contract within the period of extension,
and that it was impossible for the claimants to complete the
work within the working time thus remaining."
The findings in the second case were substantially similar.
-Mr. SypeciaZ Attorney Gorman for appellant. Mr. Assistant
Attorney General P'radtwas on his brief.
-Mr.Temple Bodley and M'. H. N. low for appellees. Ar.
John G. Simrall was on their brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

SmRAs, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Gleason & Gosnell, a firm of contractors, entered into
agreements with officers of the Engineer Corps of the United
States Army, acting for and on behalf of the United States,
whereby the former undertook to perform certain specified
work within a certain specified time. The work specified
was not completed within the time fixed, nor at any time.
levertheless, the contractors claimed in the court below that
they were entitled to recover the contract price for the portion of the work which was actually-done, and damages for
the uncompleted portion, because, as they alleged, they had
been prevented, by no fault of their own, but by freshets, ice
and other force and violence of the elements from doing the
work within the time stipulated, and had been prevented by
the officers of the United States, without just cause and contrary to applicable provisions in the contract, from a subsequent
completion of the work.
The material questions are determinable by a proper construction of the following clauses contained in the contracts:
"If, in any event, the party of the second part shall delay
or fail to commence with the delivery of the material or the
performance of the work on the day specified herein, or shall,

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

in the judgment of the engineer in charge, fail to prosecute
faithfully and diligently the w~rk in accordance with the
specifications and requirements of this contract, then in either
case the party of the first part, or his successor legally appointed, shall have power, with the sanction of the Chief of
Engineers, to annul this contract by giving notice in writing
to that effect to the party or parties (or either of them) of the
second part, and upon the giving of such notice all money or
reserved percentage due or to become due to the party or
parties of the second part by reason of this contract shall be
and become forfeited to the United States; and the party
of the first part shall be thereupon authorized, if an immediate
performance of the work or delivery of the materials be in his
opinion required by the public exigency, to proceed to provide
for the same by open purchase or contract, as prescribed in
section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States;
provided, however, that if the party or parties of the second
part shall, by freshets, ice or other force or violence of the
elements, and by no fault of his or their own, be prevented
either from commencing or completing the work or delivering
the materials at the time agreed upon in this contract, such
additional time may in writing be allowed him or them for
such commencement or completion as, in the judgment of the
party of the first part or his successor, shall be just and reasonable; but such allowance and extension shall in no manner
affect the rights or obligations of the parties under this contract, but the same shall subsist, take effect and be enforceable
precisely as if the new date for such commencement or completion had been the date originally herein agreed upon.
"The contractor must begin work within twenty days after
notification that his bid has been accepted, unless hindered by
high water; and within thirty days thereafter his working
force must consist of at least 200 men, if working by hand, or
the equivalent thereof in case excavating machines are used.
If, at any time, the working force be reduced to 150 men or
less, the engineer in charge shall have the right to terminate
the contract; and in such case the retained percentage shall
be forfeited to the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"The contract will expire on the 31st day of December,
1886; but the right is reserved to annul the contract in January, 1886, in case forty per cent of the work covered by the
same shall not have been completed on or before the 31st day
of December, 1885. The annulment of the contract under the
provisions of this paragraph will, however, involve no forfeiture of moneys previously earned."
While we are to determine the legal import of these provisions according to their own terms, it may be well to briefly
recall certain well-settled rules in this branch of the law.
One is that if a party by his contract charge himself with an
obligation possible to be performed, he must make it good,
unless his performance is rendered impossible by the act of
God, the law, or the other party. Difficulties, even if unforepeen, and however great, will not excuse him. If parties
have made no provision for a dispensation, the rule of law
gives none -nor, in such circumstances, can equity interpose.
.Dermott v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1; Cutter v. Powell, 2 Smith's Leading Oases, 1, 7th Amer. ed.
Another rule is, that it is competent for parties to a contract, of the nature of the present one, to make it a term of
the contract that the decision of an engineer, or other officer,
of all or specified matters of dispute that may arise during the
execution of the work shall be final and conclusive, and that,
in the absence of fraud or of mistake so gross as to necessarily
imply bad faith, such decision will not be subjected to the
revisory power of the courts. .Martinsburg& Potomac Railroad v. _March, 114 U. S. 549; Chicago, Santa Fj &c. Rail.
road v. Price,138 U. S. 185.
We do not understand that these principles are now called
into question, but their applicability is denied; and we are
called upon to consider a very acute and ingenious argument,
successfully urged in the court below, aiming to show that, in
the present case, the controverted matter, to wit, whether the
contractors were entitled to a further and additional extension
of time, was not left to the determination of the engineer in
charge of the work, but is open, under the'language of the
agreement and the facts as found, to be inquired into and
determined by the court.

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

The material terms of the contract calling for construction
are as follows:
"The said Gleason & Gosnell shall commence work under
this contract on or before the twentieth day of August, 1885,
and shall complete the same on or before the thirty-first day
of December, 1886.

.

.

.

Provided, however, that if the

party or parties of the second part shall, by freshets, ice or
other force or violence of the elements, and by no fault of
his or their own, be prevented either from commencing or
completing the work or delivering the materials at the time
agreed upon in this contract, such additional time may in writing be allowed him or them for such commencement or completion, as, in the judgment of the party of the first part or
his successor shall be just and reasonable."
Passing by, for the present, the fact that several extensions
of time were granted by the engineer, and having regard only
for the above language, what does it mean ? The construction
put upon it by the court below was thus expressed:
"In the cases at bar the contracts in terms provide that
'additional time. may in writing be allowed' for the completion of the work if prevented therefrom 'by freshets, ice or
other force or violence of the elements' and by no fault of
their own; not that such additional time may or" may not be
allowed as the engineer in charge may determine, but that
'such additional time may in writing be allowed' as in his
judgment ' shall be just and reasonable.' The language, taken
together, leaves no discretion in the officer except in respect
of the additional time to be allowed, and even that, the contract provides, 'shall be just and reasonable.' The claimants
in effect agreed that no additional time should be allowed
them except on condition that they were prevented from the
completion of the work (1) by freshets, ice or other force or
violence of the elements, and (2) by no fault of their own;
and to hold, when those conditions are present, that it is within
the discretion of the engineer in. charge to say whether any or
no additional time may be allowed would be to eliminate that
mutuality essential in conscionable contracts.
"Hence, taking into consideration the circumstances of this

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

case, and to effectuate the intention of the parties gathered
from the contracts as a whole, we must hold that the word
'may' should be construed to mean ' shall.'
"As to what additional time would be just and reasonable
he, as the engineer officer in charge, was to determine, not
by the exercise of arbitrary power, but by the exercise of a
just and reasonable judgment; and any additional time thus
allowed would have been final."
We cannot accept this exposition of the language as sound.
Rather do we interpret it to mean that, as between the United
States and the contractors, the latter were to be relieved from
their contract obligation to complete the work within the time
limited, only if, in the judgment of the engineer in charge,
their failure so to do was occasioned by freshets or other force
of the elements, and by no fault of their own; and that, if
and when, in his judgment, the failure to complete was, in
point of fact, due to the extraneous causes, he was also to
decide what additional time should be just and reasonable.
In other words, the parties agreed that if the contractors
should fail to complete their contract within the time stipulated, they should have the benefit of the judgment of the
engineer as to whether such failure was the result of their
own fault or of forces beyond their control, and, in the latter
event, of his judgment as to what extension of time would
be just and reasonable. Obviously the object of the provision in question was to prevent the very state of dispute and
uncertainty which would be created if the present contention
of the contractors were to prevail.
In support of its construction the court below points to a
difference in thelanguage between the clause respecting materials which provides that "the decision of the engineer officer
in charge as to quantity and quality shall be final," and that
used in the claim under consideration in which it is not said
that the judgment of the engineer shall be final. But it is
obvious that, from the very nature of the case, the decision
of the engineer in the latter case must be final. The contract
fixes the time within which the work must be completed, but
provides that, in case failure to complete is providential and

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

without fault, such additional time may be allowed as the
engineer may judge to be just and reasonable.
As, then, his granting of additional time would be final and
irrevocable, so his refusal to allow it was necessarily final.
The privilege of procuring an extension of time is conditional
on the action of the officer, whether he grant or refuse it.
By changing the phrase "such additional time may be
allowed" into the phrase "such additional time shall be
allowed," the court, below substituted for an appeal to the
discretion and decision of the officer, an absolute right to
have the question of prevention, whether by freshets or by
fault, determined by the courts.
The fallacy of such reasoning is obvious; and is pointed out
in the case of Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S. 398. That
was a case of a contract between the United States and A, for
the transportation by him of stores between certain points,
provided that the distance should be ascertained and fixed by
the chief quartermaster, and that A should be paid for the
full quantity of stores delivered by him. It was not said in
terms that the action of the chief quartermaster should be
conclusive;, and the distance, as ascertained and fixed by him,
was less than the usual and customary route.
It was said by Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of
the court:
"The action of the chief quartermaster cannot, therefore, be
subjected to the revisory power of the courts without doing
violence to the plain words of the contract. Indeed, it is not
at all certain that the government would have given its assent
to any contract which did not confer upon one of its officers
the authority in question. If the contract had not provided
distinctly, and in advance of any services performed under it,
for the ascertainment of distances upon which transportation
was to be paid, disputes might constantly have arisen between
the contractor and the government, resulting in vexatious and
expensive, and to the contractor oftentimes, ruinous litigation.
Hence the provision we have been considering. Be this supposition as it may, it is suficient that the parties expressly
agreed that distances should be ascertained and fixed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

chief quartermaster, and in the absence of fraud or such gross
mistake as would necessarily imply bad faith, or a failure to
exercise an honest judgment, his action in the premises is conclusive upon the appellant as well as upon the government.
The contract, being free from ambiguity, no exposition is
allowable contrary to the express words of the instrument."
It was further suggested by the court below, and has been
vigorously pressed upon us in the argument, that the engineer
in charge was improperly influenced in refusing the third
extension asked for, by a consideration of delinquencies in previous years, whereas it is claimed that the extended contracts
were, in respect of their several dates, new contracts, the performance or n6n-performance of which did not depend upon
anything done or omitted to be done thereunder prior to the
last extension.
It may be that, by granting the previous extensions, the
right of the Government to forfeit the compensation already
earned and withheld under the terms of the contract was
abandoned. But to say that the engineer in charge, when
applied to for a third extension, may not take in view previous delinquencies and the futility of the extensions theretofore granted, seems to us quite unreasonable. He might well
think that his duty to the Government and to the public interested in the early completion of the work forbade a further
experiment in that direction. An indefinite succession of
extensions was surely not within the contemplation of the
contract. We do not wish to be understood to say that it
would have been competent for the engineer in charge, if in
his judgment the contractors had been duly diligent during
the period of the last extension and had acted up to the conditions upon which such extension was granted, to have based
his refusal for a further extension upon the sole ground that
there had been delinquencies during the prior periods of
extension. We mean merely to say that, in a bona fide exercise of the discretion conferred upon him, that officer might
properly observe the conduct of the contractors through the
entire scope of their past action, in deciding what weight to
give to their promises as respected the future, and consider

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
Opinion of. the Court.

whether previous grants of extension had brought forth such
efforts on the part of the contractors as the circumstances
required.
But was it at all the case that the engineer, in refusing the
last application for further extension, based such refusal
wholly upon a consideration of prior condoned delinquencies ?
Even if we cannot take notice of the affidavit of Major Stickney, contained in this record, in which he states that his refusal to grant a further extension was based upon the failure
of the contractors to make proper provisions during the
period of the last extension for carrying on their work, and
that they had not fulfilled the conditions upon which the"
time had already been extended, we are permitted, and
indeed required, in absence of evidence of bad faith on his
part, to presume that he acted with due regard to his duty
as between the government and the contractors.
The fallacy, as we think, in the position of the court below
was in assuming that it was competent to go back of the
judgment of the engineer, and to revise his action by the
views of the court. This, we have seen, could only be done
upon allegation and proof of bad faith, or of mistake or
negligence so great, so gross, as to justify an inference of bad
faith. But in this case we find neither allegation nor proof.
The only allegation in the petition which can be pointed to
bearing on this subject is as follows: "That on or about
December, 1888, the said Major Amos Stickney refused to
plaintiffs the extension of time which they requested, and to
which they were rightfully entitled under the contract, by reason of being prevented from completing the same within the
time limited by the last extension and renewal thereof, by
freshets and by the force and violence of the elements and by no
fault of their own, and by reason of damages and hindrances
from causes within the control of the United States; and the
plaintiffs were thereby prevented from completing the work.
And the plaintiffs aver and charge that the said refusal of the
said Stickney to extend the time for the completion of the contract was wrongful and unjust, and a breach of the contract."
In other words, the plaintiffs allege that they were pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

vented from completing their work by force and violence of
the elements and not by any fault of their own, and that the
judgment of the engineer in refusing an extension was therefore wrongful and unjust. But as they had agreed, in the
contract as we have construed it, that the engineer was to
decide whether the failure to complete was due to the force
of the elements or to their fault, their allegation now is that
the determination of the engineer was wrongful and unjust,
because he decided the submitted issue against them. Of
course, such an allegation was wholly insufficient on which
to base an attempt to upset the judgment of the engineer.
But, even if we pass by the insufficiency of the allegation,
we perceive no evidence, or finding based on evidence, which
would have sustained a stronger and more adequate allegation.
Indeed, no evidence whatever would appear to have been
offered to sustain a charge of bad faith or gross mistake equivalent thereto. The court below does indeed say, in the twentyfirst finding, that "no judgment or decision was given by said
engineer on the question whether the claimants were prevented
by freshets and force and violence of the elements during the
season of 1888 from completing the work agreed upon within
the period limited by the last extension of the contract, nor
did he find or decide that the claimants were not so prevented." But, as it was expressly alleged in the petition, and
was found by the court, that, on an application for a further
extension because of interruption occasioned by force of elements and not by any fault of the plaintiff, the engineer did
refuse to extend, the statement of the court must mean either
that it was necessary for the engineer, in order to give efficacy
to his decision, to declare in terms that it was based on a finding of fault on the part of the contractors, or that the conclusion of the engineer did not amount to a decision or judgment,
within the meaning of the contract, because the court reached
a different conclusion.
These are propositions of law and not of fact, and we cannot
assent to either of them.
Without protracting the discussion, our conclusions are that,
under a proper construction of the contracts in this case, the

CANADA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 609
Syllabus.

right or privilege of the contractors, if they failed to complete
their work within the time limited, to have a further extension
or extensions of time, depended upon the judgment of the engineer in charge when applied to to grant such extension and
that no allegation or finding is shown in this record sufficient
to justify the court in setting aside the judgment of the engineer as having been rendered in bad faith, or in any dishonest
"disregard of the rights of the contracting parties.
These views lead to a reversal of the judgment of the court
below in so far as it sustains the claim to recover damages for
profits expected to inure to the plaintiffs if they had been permitted to complete the work.
As no actual damage or loss was definitely shown to have
been suffered by the Government by reason of the non-completion of the work, and as no forfeitures were declared at the
time of the several extensions, and may therefore be deemed
to have been waived, we affirm that portion of the judgment
of the court below allowing a recovery for the retained percentages of the compensation for work actually done and
accepted.
Accordingly the judgment of the Court of Claims is hereby
Reversed and the cases are remitted to that court with directions to enterjudgment in accordancewith this oinion.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, MR.JUSTICE BRoW-N and MR.JUSTICE

do not agree with the construction of the contract on
the subject of the power of the engineer officer, and therefore
dissent.
WHITE

CANADA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 69. Argued October 26, 1899. -Decided

January 8, 1900.

This is a case where the owners of a cargo of sugar haoI insured the same
in the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, on and before April 29, 1893,
at and for the sum of $166,145; and had, on April 29, 1893, insured the
VOL. CLxxv-39

