BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY -CO. 'v. MOBILE.

109

Counsel for Parties.

BIENTVILLE WATER SUPPLY COMPANY v. MOBILE.
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALAIA.AA.
No. 368. Submitted October 10, 1S99. -Decided

November 6,1899.

The Bienville Water Supply Company was a corporation organized under
the laws of Alabama, and was authorized thereby to build water works
in Mobile and to use the streets of that city for water purposes. The
city and that company were authorized to contract together for the purpose of supplying the city with water. In the contract made between
them under this authority there was"no express provision for furnishing
the inhabitants of the city with water, and no stipulation by the company that it would do so, though it was clear that the parties contemplated that the company would contract with the inhabitants to supply
them with water for domestic purposes. The city was also authorized
by the legislature to build or otherwise acquire water works of its own
to supply water to itself and its inhabitants for the extinguishment of
fires, and for sanitary and domestic purposes, and in its contract with
the.Bienville Company the city did notagree not to do so. It did agree
to pay the company monthly for a certain number of hydrants supplied
by it, but there was no averment on the part of the company that the
city had repudiated said obligation or refused to make such stipulated
payments, or intended to do so. The company filed a bill in equity against
the city to enjoin it from making or carrying out any other contract for
supplying water to its inhabitants, or for constructing a system of water
works for that purpose during the continuance of said contracts and
from building or acquiring a system of water works to bring water into
the city during such continuance. To this bill the city demurred. The
.billwas dismissed. Appeal being taken to this court, amotion was made
to dismiss it, joined with a motion to affirm. Held, that as there were
no facts averred showing that the city had violated, was violating, or
intended to violate its contracts with the Bienville Company, and as
there was no legislation to that end, the bill was properly dismissed in
the court below; and as there was color for the motion in this court to
dismiss, the motion to affirm would be sustained.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.
The case is stated in the opinion.
IJfr. B. B. Boone and .Y.

.L.

.Russell for the motion.

Mr. D. P. Be~sor and -Yr. 1. H/. Clarke opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. C=EF JusrioE FuLL n delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Alabama. by the
Bienvill.e Water Supply Company against the city of Mobile
and its mayor to enjoin defendants from making or carrying
out any contract for supplying water to the inhabitants of the
city or for constructing a system of water works for that
purpose during the. continuance of certain contraQts between.
complainant and the city, made parts of the bill, and from
building or acquiring a system of water Works to bring water
into the city during such continuance.
The parties were all citizens of Alabama, but complainant
invoked the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground
that the case was one arising under the Constitlition of the
.United States, in that the contracts between it and the city
were violated and impaired in the premises.
Defendants demurred, assigning special causes, among which
were the following:
"(1) Because said bill, taken in connection with Exhibits
'A' and. 'BI, made a phrt thereof, shows that no contract was
made between the city of Mobile and the Bienville Water
Supply Company as to the rates to be charged the inhabitants of said city for water, but that said contract merely fixed
a maximum rate that said water company was to charge the
inhabitants of said city of Mobile.
"(2) Because said bill of complaint shows that said city
of Mobile was specially authorized and empowered by its
charter and by the act of the general assembly of Alabama
approved November 30, 1898, (and of which said act this court
will take judicial notice,) to buy or to build, erect and maintain,

and to operate water works for the supply of its inhabitants
with water, and for the extinguishment of fires, and for sanitary, domestic and other purposes.
"(3) Because there is nothing shown or alleged in said bill
of complaint and in said Exhibits 'A' and 'B,' made a part
thereof, which precludes of estops the city of Mobile from

BIENVIILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.

11f

Opinion of the Court.

buying, building, erecting, maintaining and operating a
system of water works.
"(4) Because said Exhibits 'A' and ' B,' made a part of said
bill of complaint, show that the only obligation resting upon
and binding upon said city of Mobile is that it shall pay to
said Bienville Water Supply Company the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) each per annum,"payments to be made monthly, for
two hundred and sixty fire hydrants placed on the streets of
said city by said water supply company until the expiration
of said contract on July 1, A.D. 1900, and it is not alleged or
charged in said bill of complaint that the city of Mobile has
or intends to repudiate its obligation to pay for said two hundred and sixty fire hydrants at the rate of fifty dollars each
per annum, payments to be made monthly."
"(8) Because said bill of complaint fails to allege any facts
which show that the city of Mobile has or intends to do or
commit any act which will impair the said contract between
the city of Mobile and the Bienville Water Supply Company,
and which said contract is made a part of the bill of complaint.
"(9) Because it is shown upon the face of said bill of complaint that the city of Mobile did not grant the complainant
the franchise to lay its said water mains and pipes in the city
of Mobile, but that it was done by the-general assembly of
Alabama, and from which it-appears that said city of Mobile
had no lawful authority to grant or to enter into a contract
with complainant, conferring thereby the exclusive right or
privilege of supplying water to the inhabitants of said city of
Mobile."
The court sustained the demurrer on the foregoing grounds
and gave complainant fifteen days in which to amend, and, no
amendment having been made, dismissed the bill. From that
decree an appeal to this court was allowed and perfected, and
motions to dismiss or affirm submitted.
The opinion of the Circuit Court, Toulmin, J., is reported
95 Fed. Rep. 539, and states the facts appearing from the bill,
and pertinent legislation, in substance, correctly, as follows:
Complainant was a corporation chartered by the legislature of
Alabama for the purpose, among other things, of supplying

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

water to the city of Mobile, a municipal corporation of the
State, and its inhabitants, and was authorized to construct the
needed canals; ditches, pipes, aqueducts, etc., best suited for
the purpose, and was "charged with the duty of introducing
into the port of Mobile (city) such supply of pure water as
the domestic, sanitary and municipal wants thereof may require." Accordingly complainant laid mains and pipes in the
streets of the city and established hydrants and fire plugs
therein and built a reservoir and erected pumps connecting
.with such mains and pipes at large expense to itself; and used
the property to supply the city and its inhabitants with water.
August 15, 1888, complainant entered into a contract with the
city to furnish for itS use 260 fire hydrants, and to furnish
water for fire service of a certain number of streams and pressure, and further agreed that the city should have the unrestricted use'of the hydrants for such fire purposes and the free
use of water for all municipal buildings, and that the company
would not charge a greater or higher rate for water for domestic use than that specified in the contract. In consideration of complainant's stipulations, the city agreed to pay
complainant for the use of the hydrants, monthly, at the rate
of $50 a hydrant per annum, during the continuance of the
contract, which was for a term of six years. April 14, 1891,
the contract was changed in some particulars and the term extended to twelve years. These two contracts were annexed
to the bill and marked Exhibits "A" and "B."
The bill averred that complainant had complied and was
complying with all the obligations and requirements of the
contract on his part, and that the city had violated and was
violating the contract in that it had bought and taken possession of a water works plant, and was now operating the
same, selling water to customers and cutting rates below those
fixed in the contract, and actually competing in the business
of selling and furnishing water to its inhabitants, and that it
had taken away some of complainant's customers) thereby decreasing its income. And further, that the city was building
another system of water works to supply itself and its inhabitants with water, and that it claimed the right so. to do under

BIENVILLE WATER SUPPLY CO. v. MOBILE.-

113

Opinion of the Court.

the provisions of its charter and an act of the legislature of
Alabama of November 30, 1898.
The charter provided that the city might contract for, build,
purchase or otherwise acquire public works subject to the approval of a majority vote of the citizens of Mobile at a special
election called therefor, and in July, 1897, such an election
was held, and a majority of the votes cast were in favor of the
city contracting for or otherwise acquiring water works to be*
owned and operated by the city and the issuing of bonds to
pay for the same. The act of November 30, 1898,,authorized.
the issuing of bonds for that purpose. It was further averred.
that acting under and by virtue of the powei granted by the
charter and the act of November 30, the city had entered into
a contract to have a system of water works built, and that the
building of the same was now going on, and that it had made
a contract with certain persons to take said bonds, who had
already taken and paid for a part of them. Complainant contended that the city had no legal right to impair the value of
its plant and to destroy or diminish its income therefrom, which
would be the effect of the city's action in building water works
and furnishing water to its inhabitants, and it was averred
that defendant was insolvent, and that the only way complainant could protect itself was through the interposition of
a cofirt of equity. It was not asserted by complainant that it
had been granted an exclusive franchise to furnish water to
the city and its inhabitants, but that under the contracts the
city had no right to furnish water to other persons or to build
or acquire a system of water works to supply water to itself
and its inhabitants, and that to do this was a violation thereof.
The Circuit Court observed that the city of Mobile granted
complainant no rights or privileges whatever, but that the
legislature of the State granted it the right to build water
works and to use the streets of the city for water purposes,
and authorized complainant and the city to contract together
for the purpose of supplying the city with water. The contract was made, but there was no express provision in it for
furnishing the inhabitants with water and no stipulation by
complainant that it would do so, though it was clear that the
VOL. mLx.xV-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

parties contemplated that complainant would contract with
the inhabitants to supply them with water for domestic purposes, since it was stipulated that complainant should not
charge for water so supplied higher rates than those specified
therein. On the other hand, the city was authorized and empowered by its charter and the act of the legislature of November 30, 1898, to build or otherwise acquire water works of
its own to supply water to itself and its inhabitants for the extinguishment of fires and for sanitary and domestic purposes,
and the city in its contracts with complainant did not agree
not to do so. It did agree to pay complainant for a certain
number of hydrants erected and supplied by it, and to make
the payments monthly, but there was no averment that the
city had by act or word repudiated its obligation or failed or
refused to make the payments stipulated for, or that it intended
to'do so.
In short, there were no facts -averred showing that the city
had violated, was violating, or intended to violate, its contracts
with complainant, and there was no legislation to that end.
Such being the state of the case, the Circuit Court did not err
in dismissing the bill, and as there was color for the motion
to dismiss, the motion to affirm will be sustained.
Decree affimed.

In re BLAKE AND OTHERS, Ex parte.
No number.

ORIGnTAL.

Application for leave presented October 80, 1899. - Denied November 13, 1899.

lung, 172 U. S. 239, (which case was brought here by writ
Blake v. A
of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee,) having been
remanded to that court, and the mandate having gone down, the counsel
of Blake and others moved for the entry of a decree placing them in
the same class and on exact equality with the Tennessee creditors in respect to the distribution of the assets of the insolvent company among its
creditors; but this the state Supreme Court declined to do, and entered a
decree that Blake and others were entitled to participate in the assets on.
the basis of a broad distribution of the assets of the corporation among all

