OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

between the cargo insurers and the libellant, and the doctrine
of re8 inter alios is invoked.

But they had knowledge of the prior insurance, and were
bound to know that, in case of disaster, there was the right to
abandon. There is evidence that they were informed of what
was going on between the other parties concerned. They do
not impugn, by allegation or evidence, the fairness and good
faith of that transaction, nor do they claim that it was conducted with a view to prejudice them.
They plant. their defence solely on the proposition of fact
that a sound portion of the cargo reached the port of destination in due course, and was there delivered to the libellant as
oconsignee- a proposition of fact, as we have seen, not sustained but refuted by the evidence.
Accordingly, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be
Reversed, with cos0ts, and the decree of the District Court
for the Southern Districtof New York is affirmed.

KEOKUK AND HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 26.

Submitted November 15, 1899. -Decided

January 8, 1900.

The boundary line between the States of Illinois and Iowa is the middle of
the main navigable channel of the Mississippi 'River; but whether in
assessing taxes in Illinois on a bridge running from one State to the
other, in crossing that bridge the dividing line was improperly located,
is a question of fact the finding of which by a state court is not reviewable here.
The same may be said concerning the contention as to whether the bridge
was assessed at more than its value and not at the same proportion of
its value as other property was.
The tax on the capital stock was not a tax on franchises conferred by the
Federal government, but on those conferred by the State, and as such
is not open to objection here.
The tax was not a tax on interstate commerce.

KEOKUK & HAMILTONW BIDGE CO. v. ILLINOIS.

62-

Opinion of the Court.
As to the objection that the entire capital stock was assessed by the state
board of equalization, it is enough to say that the question that the action
of that board was in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
except so far as it was claimed to be an interference with interstate commerce, was not raised, and therefore cannot be considered here for the
first time.
No opinion is intimated on the contention that the judgment was erroneous
because the assessment, in effect, included the entire capital stock of
plaintiff in error as a consolidated corporation.
THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Walter D. Davidge and -Mr. Walter D. Davidge, Jr.,
.r.
for plaintiff -in error.
.r. Edward C. Akin and Mr. 0. F. Berry for defendant
in error.
IMR. CHrEF JusToB FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to review the judgment oi the
Supreme Court of Illinois affirming a judgment of the county
court of Hancock County, in that State, for delinquent taxes
assessed against the Keokuk and Hamilton Bridge Company
for the year 1894.
The Keokuk aid Hamilton Bridge Company was incorporated by an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois
in 1857, with power to build, maintain and use a bridge for
railroad and other purposes over the Mississippi River from
or near the town of -Hamilton, in the county of Hancock, to
Keokuk, i-d the State of Iowa, and was authorized to connect
the bridge by railroad or otherwise with any railroad or railroads terminating thereat or approximately thereto, and to
consolidate with any railroad or other company or companies
in Illinois or any other State. A similar corporation was
organized under the laws of the State of Iowa, and the two
corporations consolidated with the main office at Keokuk.
Authority to construct and maintain the bridge was granted
the two companies by the act of Congress of July 25, 1866, c.
244, 14 Stat. 244.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The record discloses that the company objected to the
assessment of its tangible property as made by the assessor
of the township in which the Illinois end of the bridge was
situated, and applied to the township board of review for a
reduction, protesting that the property was overvalued; "that
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States has been violated, in that equal justice and protection
to property of the said bridge company has been denied;"
"that the property assessed and described by the assessor lies
partly in the State of Iowa and is not subject to taxation in
.Illinois;" etc. The board of review denied the relief asked,
and the bridge company appealed to the board of supervisors
of Hancock County, which also refused to change the assessment. The collector of Hancock County then applied to the
county court, at its May term 1895, for judgment. on the
-delinquent tax list, including the assessment against the bridge
company, to which the company filed its objections, rehearsing the proceedings which had been theretofore taken, the
objections made, and the evidence adduced. Before a hearing
on these objections was bad, the parties stipulated that the
collector might "insert in his application for judgment the
capital stock tax for the year 1894: levied by the state board
of equalization against said company," which was done.
The bridge company thereupon filed its objections to any
judgment for the capital stock tax, as follows:
"Objections by ' the Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Company'
to judgment against its bridge and approach.
"The original objections filed to said May term covering
the application as there made.
"The application was amended in June by adding claims
for capital stock tax of 1894, $1029.90.
"This objection is to the proposed judgment against said
property for said claimed tax on the capital stock of said
company-

"1st. Because said bridge company is a consolidated
corporation of the States of Illinois and Iowa, one half in
each of said States, and its entire business is that of interstate commerce, and any tax thereon is a tax upon such

KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE CO. v. ILLINOIS.

629

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce and is without authority of law and
void.
"2d. Such claimed capital stock tax is levied upon the
whole capital stock, when only one half thereof, if any, is
assessable in Illinois.
"3d. The only tax assessable against said property is upon
its tangible property in Illinois.
"4th. Said pretended assessment of capital stock is wholly
void because not made in the manner required by law nor
according to the rules of the state board of equalization."
Considerable evidence was introduced, including the proceedings of the state board of equalization, from which it
appeared that the capital stock of the bridge company was
returned at one million dollars ; that the total amount of its
indebtedness except for current expenses, and excluding from
such expenses the amount paid for the purchase or improvement of property, was one million dollars, with unpaid interest
thereon amounting to nine hundred thousand dollars; that
the assessed valuation of lands and structure was $218,000;
and that the state board of equalization placed the valuation
for assessment of capital stock at $30,080. The tax on the.
tangible property was $2708.61, and on the capital stock
$1019.17. Judgment was rendered by the county court for
those amounts and interest. From this judgment the case was
carried on appeal to the Supreme Court, and there affirmed.
Among the errors assigned in that court were that "the
court erred in overruling defendant's (appellant's) objections
to the rendition of judgment of the capital stock tax (so-called)
and rendering judgment thereon. Among the reasons for said
error are the following:
CCa.
Said capital stock tax is a tax on personal, not on real,
property, and is chargeable only at the place of the main office and place of business of defendant (appellant) -Keokuk,
in the State of Iowa -and is made in violation of the rights
of defendant (appellant), contrary to the laws regulating commerce between the States and contrary to the Constitution and
laws of the United States.
"b. If any part of said capital stock of defendant (appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lant) is taxable in Illinois, it can only be that portion thereof
that would correspond to the length of the bridge in Illinois
as compared to the whole length of bridge, represented by
said capital stock-not exceeding one half of said stockyet the judgment is rendered for the tax assessed against
the whole of the capital stock of defendant (appellant) as
though all was located in Illinois;" that the judgment was
against the evidence as to the length of the bridge in Illinois;
and that the court ignored the act of Congress fixing the western boundary of Illinois.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois, Keokuk &
Hamilton Bridge Co. v. The People, 167 Illinois, 15, it is
said: "The grounds of reversal are, first, the assessments
were fraudulently made; second, the whole of the capital stock
is assessed in this State, whereas an undivided half of it is
taxable in Iowa; third, the judgment is upon an assessment
upon a part of appellant's bridge not in the State of Illinois,
but in the State of Iowa. The facts upon which the first
two grounds are based are substantially the same as those
upon which similar objections were urged in cases between
the same parties in 145 Ill. 596, and 161 Id. 132 and 514,
and are disposed of adversely to the appellant by those decisions."
The last point was disposed of on the ground that the
county court was justified on the evidence in finding that no
part of the bridge assessed was in the State of Iowa.
In .Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Company v. The PeopZe,
145 Illinois, 596, it was held that when the middle of a navigable river becomes the boundary line between two States, the
middle of the current or channel of commerce will be regarded
as the boundary line; that an assessor in Illinois in assessing
a bridge over a navigable river forming the boundary of the
State for the purpose of taxation, has no right to assess any
part of such bridge that is located beyond such boundary line;
and that unless the property has been fraudulently assessed
more than its fair cash value, the courts cannot interfere with
the action of the assessor. The judgment in that case was
reversed because the assessor had assessed several hundred

KEOKUK & HAMILTO1N BRIDGE CO.v. ILLINOIS.

631

Opinion of the Court.

feet of the bridge as in llncock County, Illinois, which was
located beyond the boundary line of the State.
In Keokuk &c. B idge Co. v. People, 161 Illinois, 132, it was
ruled that in fixing the value for taxation the assessor acts
judicially, and the courts cannot revise his assessment on the
mere ground of erroneous valuation; that on an application
for judgment for delinquent taxes, it may be shown that the
tax is unauthorized by law, or is assessed on property not subject to taxation, or that the property has been fraudulently
assessed'at too high a rate; that the capital stock of a corporation formed by the consolidation of corporations of different
States is properly taxable in one of said States so far as the
corp6ration of that State is concerned; that the kind of property denominated in the revenue law of Illinois "capital
stock" does not mean shares of stock, either separate or in
the aggregate, but designates the property of the state corporation subject to taxation, as a homogeneous unit partaking
of the nature of personalty, and subject to the burdens imposed
on it by the State of its creation. The judgment was reversed
because the assessment was illegal in including a certain number of feet' of the bridge which was located in the State of
Iowa.
In Same v. Same, Id. 514, the rulings in the prior case so
far as involved were affirmed.
The foregoing are the decisions to which reference is made in
the opinion of the state Supreme Court in the case before us:
The errors assigned in this court are in substance that part
of the bridge assessed was in the State of Iowa; that the bridge
was assessed at more than its value, and not in the same proportion as other property was assessed; that no part of the
capital stock was assessable, because a. tax on it was in effect
a tax on interstate commerce, and was a tax on franchises
conferred by the Federal government; and that the whole of
the capital stock was assessed, although one half of the bridge
was located in the State of Iowa.
1. In Iowa v. illinois, 147 U. S.1, it was adjudged that the
boundary line between the two States was "the middle of
the main navigable channel of the Mississippi River." Where

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that line divided the bridge was a question of fact, and it is
not within our province to review the findings of the courts
below in regard to the part-assessed in Illinois.
2. For the same reason, the contention as to whether the
bridge was assessed at more than its value, and not at the
same proportion of its value as other property was, need not
be considered. Perhaps we may properly add that we perceive no adequate ground to question the conclusion that the
county court did not err in declining, on the evidence, to set
aside the*determinations of the boards of review sustaining
the action of the assessor.
3. The tax on the capital stock was not a tax on franchises
conferred by the Federal government, but on those conferred
by the State, and as such not open to objection. Central
Paciic Railroad v. California, 162 U. S. 91; Henderson
Bridge Company v. Kentucky, i66 U. S. 150. Nor was the
tax a tax on interstate commerce. This was so ruled in
Henderson Bridge Company v. Kentucky, supra. It was
there said:
"The company was chartered by the State of Kentucky to
build and operate a bridge, and the State could properly in-'
elude the franchises it had granted in the valuation of the
company's property for taxation. Central Pacifc Railroad
Company v. California,162 U. S. 91. The regulation of tolls
for transportation over the bridge considered in Covington &
Cincinnati Bridge Company v. Kentucky, 154: U. S. 204, presented an entirely different question.
"Clearly the tax was not a tax on the interstate business
carried on over cr by means of the bridge, because the bridge
company did not transact such business. That business was
carried on by the persons and corporations which paid the
bridge company tolls for the privilege of using the bridge.
The fact that the tax in question was to some extent affected
by the amount of the tolls received, and therefore might be
supposed to increase the rate of tolls, is too remote and incidental to make it a tax on the business transacted." And see
Renderson Bridge Company v. Benderson City, 173 U. S.
592, 622.

,

KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE CO. v. ILLINOIS.

633

Opinion of the Court.

4. As to the objection that the entire capital stock was
assessed by the state board of equalization, it is enough to say
that the question that the action of that board was in viola:
tion of the Constitution of the United States, except so far as
it was claimed to be an interference with interstate commerce,
was not raised.
The Supreme Court of Illinois had repeatedly sustained the
assessment on the whole capital stock as being an assessment
on the capital stock of a corporation created by the State of
Illinois. But in none of the cases in which the question of
the validity of such capital stock assessments arose was the
point considered that they were contrary to the Constitution
of the United States.
In this case, and as to the tangible property, the objection
was made that the assessment by the assessor of that tangible
property was in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
But this was before the township board of review, and the
board of supervisors, and had no relation to the assessment
of capital stock, which by the laws of Illinois was dealt with
solely by the board of equalization. In the county court, the
objections made in the township board of review and in the
board of supervisors as to the tangible property, were repeated as to that property, but the objections to the assessment on the capital stock were independent of and distinct
from those, and raised no question in respect of the Constitution of the United States except that as to interstate commerce. And this was true as to the assignments of error in
the state Supreme Court.
In Dewey v. Des .ftoines, 173 U. S. 193, it was held that
where a Federal question is raised in the state courts, the
party who resorts to this court cannot raise another Federal
question, not connected with it, whicl was not raised in any
of the courts below.
To justify our taking jurisdiction, the Federal question
must be specially set up or claimed in the state court; the
party must have the intent to invoke for the protection of his
rights the Constitution. or some statute or treaty of the United
States, and such intention must be declared in some unmis-

OCTOBER TER19, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

takable manner. Oxley Stave Company v. Butler County, 166
U. S. 648. "In other words, the court must be able to see
clearly from the whole record that a provision of the Constitution or act of Congress is relied upon by the party who
brings the writ of error, and that the right thus claimed by
him was denied. . . . Although no particular form of
words is necessary to be used in order that the Federal question may be said to be involved, within the meaning of the
cases on this subject, there yet must be something in the case
before the state court which at least would call its attention
to the Federal question as one that was relied on by the
party, and then, if the decision of the court, while not noticing the question, was such. that the judgment was by its
necessary effect a denial of the right claimed or referred to,
it would be sufficient. It must appear from the record that
the right set up or claimed was denied by the judgment, or
that such was its necessary effect in law. . . . It is not
enough that there may be somewhere hidden in the record
a question which, if iaised, would be of a Federal nature.
Hamilton Company v. -Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632. In order
to be available in this court some claim or right must have
been asserted in the court below by which it would appear
that the party asserting the right founded it in some degree
upon the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States.
In such case, if the court below denied the right claimed, it
would be enough; or if it did not in terms deny such right,
if the necessary effect of its judgment was to deny it, then it
would be enough. But the denial, whether expressed or implied, must be of some right or claim founded upon the Constitution or the laws or treaties of the United States which
had in some manner been brought to the attention of the
court below.- The record shows nothing of the kind in this
case. A claim or right which has never been made or
asserted cannot be said to have been denied by a judgment
which does not refer to it. -Hamilton Company v. Miassachusetts, supra. A point that was never raised cannot be said
to have been decided adversely to a party, who never set it
up or in any way alluded to it. Nor can it be said that the

WHITCOMB v. SMITHSON.
Statement of the Case.

necessary effect in law of a judgment, which is silent upon
the question, is the denial of a claim or right which might
have been involved therein, but which in fact was never in
any way set up or spoken of." 173 U. S. 198, 199, 200.
We are confined then to the only Federal questions which
this record presents, and in disposing of these, as we have,
no opinion is intimated on the contention that the judgment
was erroneous because the assessment, in effect, included the
entire capital stock of plaintiff in error as a consolidated
Judgment c jred.
corporation.

WHITCOMB v. SMITHSON.
.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 150. Submitted December 4,1899.-Decided January 8, 1900.

On the facts, as stated below, it is held that the action of the Circuit Court
in remanding the cause after its removal on the first application is not
open to revision on this writ of error; and that, as the state court did
not err in denying the second application, the motion to affirm must be
sustained, as the question of the effect of that remanding order gave
color for the motion to dismiss.

THis was an action brought in the District Court of Ramsay
County, Minnesota, by John A. Smithson against the Chicago
Great Western Railway Company, and H. F. Whitcomb and
Howard Morris, receivers of the Wisconsin Central Company,
to recover for personal injuries while he was serving the
Chicago Great Western Railway Company as a locomotive
fireman, in a collision between the lpcomotive on which he
was at work and another locomotive operated by Whitcomb
and Morris, as receivers of the Wisconsin Railway Company,
appointed by the United States Circuit Courts for the Eastern District of Wisconsin and the District of Minnesota. The
Chicago Great Western Railway Company answered the complaint, and the receivers filed a petition for the removal of the
cause into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis-

