TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. R'Y.

639

Statement of the Case.

TELLURIDE POWER TRANSMISSION COMPANY v.
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 70. Argued December S,11, 1899.-Decided January 8,1900.
In a case brought up by writ of error from the Supreme Court of a State,
it appeared from a supplemental transcript of the record that proceedings for a removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United States
were taken in the court of original jurisdiction, and were denied; but
that no question regarding these proceedings was made in the Supreme
Court of the State, and the supplemental transcript was not filed in such
Supreme Court until after the case had been decided there. Held: that
as no certiorari was issued to bring it np, and no motion or order was
made for leave to file it, it could not be considered here.
By Rev. Stat. section 2339, whenever, "by priority of possession," rights
to the use of water for mining purposes have vested and accrued, and
the same are recognized by local customs and laws, "the possessors and
owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the.
same." Held: that a question of fact, as to which party had priority of
possession, was not a Federal question.
The jurisdiction of this court in cases brought up by writ of error to a
state court does not extend to questions of fact, or of local law, which
are merely preliminary to, or the possible basis of, a Federal question.

Tins was a suit brought by the Rio Grande Western Railway Company, a corporation of Utah, in the District Court
of the Fourth Judicial District of Utah, against the Telluride
Power Transmission Company and two individual defendants,
named Nunn and Holbrook, to confirm and quiet the title of
the plaintiff company to certiin unsurveyed public lands of
the*United States in the county and State of Utah.
The bill of complaint was filed September 12, 1896, and set
forth that the railway company was authorized to construct
and operate a railway in Pxovo Cafion, Utah, on either of two
routes described; that in March, 1896, it commenced the survey and location of a line of railroad through the cafion, which
line passed over certain tracts of unsurveyed lands of the
United States, of which one Murphy was in possession, prior
to the survey; that it became the owner of this right of way,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

under an act Qf Congress affirming such rights, subject only to
its obligation to pay the occupant the damages to his possessory right, which he subsequently released. The plaintiff
further alleged that, while lawfully in possession of the land,
the defendants set up an adverse claim, and by threats and
force stopped its work and denied its right to use the land
for railway purposes. A judgment was demanded that the
adverse claim be decreed unfounded; that the right of the
plaintiff be confirmed, and the defendants,be enjoined from
asserting their adverse claim or interfering with the plaintiff's
possession.
It would appear from a supplemental transcript of the
record filed in the Supreme Court of Utah, after its judgment upon the merits, that, prior to any further action being
taken, and on or about December 5, 1896, the defendants, the
Telluride Power Transmission Company, and the individual
defendant Nunn, filed a petition for a removal of the case to
the Circuit Court of the United States, on account of diversity of citizenship, except as to defendant Holbrook, who was
charged with having no interest in the controversy, and with
being a mere nominal party, and made such for the purpose
of ousting the jurisdiction of the Federal court. Upon hearing the arguments of counsel, the petition was denied.
After filing an objection to the further exercise of jurisdiction by the state court, the defendants demurred to the bill
of complaint upon the ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The demurrer was
overruled. No exception was taken by the defendants, who
united in an answer, in which it was alleged that the defendant Holbrook had no interest in the subject-matter in controversy. The answer further denied the material allegation of
the complaint, as well as the existence of the plaintiff as a
corporation, and averred that the greater part of the bed of
the caion was unsurveyed public land; that the defendants
took possession of a large portion of these lands for the purpose of constructing a reservoir, and of other lands for canals,
flumes and small dams, in order to carry out the purpose of
the enterprise for which they were chartered; that, in 1894,

TELLURIDE POWEIt 00. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY.

61

Statement of the Case.

they entered upon Provo Cafion and made surveys for the
purpose of ascertaining whether water power could be obtained for the production of electric current, and whether by
storage in reservoirs, water could be obtained for agricultural
and mining purposes; and that thereafter they took possession of a large part of the public domain, lying in the said
cafion, including the land in dispute, for the purpose of constructing a reservoir thereon; that, in order to complete this
enterprise, they would require the whole of the cafion, and
that, if the plaintiff or any one else should construct a railroad
through the cafion, this enterprise would be defeated; that il'
1895 they began the construction of a flume, in order to obtain
power with which to aid in the construction of a dam eighty-..
five feet high at Hanging Rock, the latter dam being intendedl
to retain water for power and irrigation purposes; that they
made surveys of the contour of the reservoir to be formed by
the dim; that in the spring of 1896 they prosecuted the work
upon the said surveys and flume; that prior to the plaintiff's
-entry into Provo Cafion they, the defendants the Telluride
Company and Nunn., had entered upon the unoccupied, unsurveyed public land therein, with the purpose of constructing an
expensive dam and reservoir; and that, on September 12, 1896,
when this suit was commenced, and for more than two years
prior thereto, they were and had been in actual possession of
the land in dispute.
The case was tried by the court without a jury. Findings of
fact and conclusions of law were made by the court to the
effect that the plaintiff had prior possession of the land, and that
the adverse claim of the defendants was unfounded. A judgment was thereupon entered in favor of the plaintiff; its title
to the lands in question confirmed and quieted; the adverse
claim adjudged invalid, and the defendants enjoined from setting up claims or exercising rights adverse to those of the
plaintiff. From this judgment, defendants, the Telluride Company and N~unn, took an appeal to the Supreme Court of Utah,
which affirmed the judgment of the District Court. Whereupon these defendants sued out a writ of error from this court,
assigning, amongst other things, as error, the failure of the
VOL. CLXXV-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court to remove the case to the Circuit Court of the
United States.
Mr.Arthur Brotbn for plaintiffs in error. Mr. H. P. Henderson and .Mr. William Story were on his brief.
.Mr.. James H. Hayden for defendant in error. .A&. Joseph
E. -Mc~ammon and Mr.R. Harkness were on his brief.
MvR.

JusTicE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The question of the removal of the case to the Federal
court may be disposed of without difficulty. The facts are
that, on January 21, 1898, four months after the case was
argued in the Supreme Court, and six weeks after it was decided, there was filed in the Supreme Court of Utah a supple-mental transcript containing the original petition for. removal
to the Circuit Court, the bond of the petitioners, the order of
the court denying the petition, and a protest of the defendants
against the further exercise of jurisdiction by the state court.
But it does not appear how this supplemental record came to
be filed. No certiorari was issued to bring it up. No motion
was made for leave to file it. No order was entered permitting it to be filed, and for aught that appears, it was procured
by some unauthorized person and thrust upon the files without
notice to either party, without consultation with the court, and
for the purpose of creating a defence which was never called
to the attention of the Supreme Court. The transcript, uppn
which the case was heard in the Supreme Court, was stipulated
by the attorneys for the respective parties to be "a full, correct, true and complete transcript of the proceedings in said
cause on appeal, and of all the pleadings in said cause, of all
orders on demurrer, of the findings of the court and conclusions therefrom, and of the judgment, and of notice of intention
to move for a new trial, and of the notice of appeal, and of the
bill of exceptions and statement of motion for new trial." In
short, this supplemental transcript is a mere excrescence. It is
scarcely necessary to say that, under such circumstances, it cannot be considered here. Goodenough -Mfg. Co. v. Rhode Island
Horse Shoe Co., 154 U. S.630.

TELLURIDE POWER CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. RY. 643
Opinion of the Court.

2. If there be any Federal question in the case, it arises
from Rev. Stat. sec. 2339, which reads as follows:
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing or other purposes,
have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and the decisions of
courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be
maintained and protected in the same; and the right of way
for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposesherein
specified is acknowledged and confirmed; but whenever any
person, in the construction of any ditch or canal, injures or
damages the possession of any settler on the public domain,
the party committing such injury or damage shall be liable
to the party injured for such injury or damage."
It is insisted that the case falls within the first category of
cases specified in Rev. Stat. sec. 709," where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against
their v4ldity." But the cases in which this clause has been
applied are those wherein the validity of a statute, or of an
authority exercised by a public official of the United States
has been called in question; and not those where a general
right is set up under a statute. 7aGuire v. Commonwealth,
3 Wall. 387; .lillingarv. Hartupee, 6 Wall. 258; DanieZ v.
Tearney, 102 U. S.415; Sharpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S.686; Buck
v. Colbatli, 3 Wall. 334. The use of the word "authority"
in the third clause in connection with the word "commission
favors the theory that a personal authority was intended, and
not the assertion of an abstract right created by a statute.
We think the case falls more properly within the third
clause, as one wherein a title or right is claimed under a statute of the United States. In such case such title or right
must be "specially set up and, claimed" before judgment in
the state court. This was not done in the case under considIn its complaint, the 'plaintiff railway company
eration.
makes no allusion to this act, but relies upon an act of Congress respecting a right of way for railroads through public
lands, act of 'arch 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, and upon cer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tain provisions of the local laws of Utah. The statute is not
set up in the answer of the defendants, who relied upon their
priority of possession. So, also, in the thirty-three assignments
of error, filed by the defendants in the state Supreme Court,
no reference is made to an act of Congress as the basis of their
right, and no intimation is made that the District Court erred
in the construction or applicability of any such act.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court, it is stated that the
errors alleged raised the questions, first, whether there was
not a statutory forfeiture of the plaintiff's charter, in consequence of a failure to complete and put its road in operation;
second, whether plaintiff had the lawful right to locate its
right of way in the cafion, and had located it over the land
in dispute, and was in actual possession thereof, when defendant interfered ; third, whether the law required the plaintiff
to file with the register of the land office a profile of its route;
and, fourth, whether the defendants made such appropriation,
or had such possession of the land in dispute as authorized
them to hold it against the plaintiff. After discussing the
validity of the plaintiff's charter, the powers granted by it,
and the possession of the plaintiff, the opinion proceeds to consider whether the defendants had any right to the land in
dispute, and in this connection finds that they mighit have
obtained a vested right to own unappropriated waters of the
Provo River for the purposes specified in their charter, and
that such right is recognized and acknowledged by Rev. Stat.
sec. 2339 above cited, but piofessed itself "unable to find from
a preponderance of the evidence in the record, that the 'defendants, or either of them, had appropriated the land in dispute,
and that they were, or that either of them was, in actual possession of it when the plaintiff located its right of way, took
actual possession, and engaged in grading it. We cannot
regard the plaintiff as a mere intruder on the defendants'
possession, nor can we hold that they had a right to prevent
the plaintiff's emliloy~s from grading it and to eject plaintiff
from actual possession. It is true that defendants had surveyed for dams and reservoirs at different points on the river,
but they had not taken and did not hold actual possession of
the land in dispute."

TELLURIDE POWEA CO. v. RIO GRANDE &c. R'Y.

645

.

Opinion of the Court.

The petition in error for the first time set up a right and
authority under the mining laws of the United States, Rev.
Stat. sec. 2339, and charged that the decision of the trial
court, as well as of the Supreme Court of the State, was
against the authority and validity of the claim of the defendants. The assignments of error turn principally, if not wholly,
upon the finding of prior possession on the part of the plain'tiff, the refusal of the court to remove the cause, and its ruling
that the plaintiff had the right under its charter to construct
the road.
From this i'8umi of the proceedings, it -is evident that
there was no denial to the defendants of any right they may
have possessed by virtue of a priority of possession. The
statute (Rev. Stat. sec. 2339) provides that "whenever, by
priority of possession, rights to the use of water" for certain
purposes "have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and decisions," the owners of such vested rights "shall be maintained.
and protected in the same," and their right of way for the'
construction of ditches and canals acknowledged and confirmed. But in order to establish any rights under the statute
it was incumbent upon the defendants to prove their priority
of possession, or at least to disprove priority on the part of the
plaintiff. The question who had acquired this priority of possession was not a Federal question, but a pure question of.
fact, upon which the decision of the state court was conclusive.
No construction was put upon the statute; no question arose
under it; but a preliminary question was to be decided before
the statute became material, and that was whether defendants
were first in possession of the land. Even if priority of possession had been shown, it would still have been necessary to
prove that defendants' right to the use of the water was recognized and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and decisions, all of which were questions of state law.
In this connection, an attempt is made to distinguish
between the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.
Defendants concede that they are bound by the findings of fact
upon the subject of possession, but contend that they are not

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

bound by the conclusions of law, which are as follows: First,
that the plaintiff, prior to the commencement of the suit, had
the possession, right of possession, and the inchoate title of
the lands described; second, that the defendant company had
no power in Utah to engage in generating electric power for
sale; third, that defendants never had the title, possession
or right of possession, to the lands, or acquired any vested
right in accordance with the laws or customs of the cou*ntry,
or any right to flow or otherwise occupy said lands, or prevent
the use and occupation thereof by the plaintiff railroad company, and that their adverse claim was unfounded fourth,
that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment.
It is quite evident that these findings involved either questions of fact or questions of local law, and that while the finding of the ultimate fact of prior possession may possibly have
been a legal conclusion, it was not a Federal question. In this
particular the case is covered by -Eilersv. Boatman, 111 U. S.
356, which was an action for the settlement of adverse claims
to mineral lands. The case turned upon the priority of location, which the court held was a matter of fact, although the
court below called it a conclusion of law.
The case under consideration in its material aspects resembles that of Bushnell v. Crooke fininig CoQ., 148 U. S. 682,
which was an action of ejectment growing out of conflicting
and interfering locations of mining claims. As stated by
Mr. Justice Jackson, "tlie question presented on the trial of
the controversy under the pleadings was purely one pf fact,
and had reference to the true direction which the Monitor
lode or vein took after encountering a fault, obstruction or
interruption at a point south of the discovery shaft sunk
thereon. . . . After the decision had been rendered by
the Supreme'Court of the State, a petition for rehearing was
presented by the plaintiffs in error, which, for the first time,
sought to present a question whether section 2322 of the
Revised Statutes gave to the appellants 'the exclusive right
of possession I and enjoyment of all other veins or lodes having their apexes within the Monitor's surface ground." The
court held it to be "plainly manifest that neither the plead-

TELLURYIDE POWER 03O. v. RIO GRANDE &c. R'Y.

647

Opinion of the Court.

ings nor the instructions given and refused present any Federal
question, and an examination of the opinion of the Supreme
Court affirming the action of the trial court as to instructions
given, as well as its refusal to give instructions asked by the
defendants below, fails to disclose the presence of any Federal
question." In this connection Mr. Justice Jackson quotes the
remark of the Chief Justice in Cook County v. Calumet &
Chicago Canal Company, 138 U. S. 635, 653: "The validity
of a statute is not drawn into question every time rights
claimed under such statute are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority every time an act done by such authority
is disputed." See also Doe v. City of Mobile, 9 How. 451.
The position of the plaintiffs in error is that, as their whole
case depended upon the rights asserted by them under section
2339, and that, as the courts decided adversely to the rights
claimed by them, there was no necessity of a special reference
to that statute, relying in this connection upon such cases as
.Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311; Satterlee v. .Matthewson,
2 Pet. 380, 410, and others cited in Columbia Water Power
Co. v. Columbia Electric Street Railway Co., 172 U. S. 475,
488, in which we have held that, if it sufficiently appear from
the rec6rd that the validity of a state statute was drawn in
question as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
and the question was decided, or such decision was necessarily
involved in the case, and the case could not have been determined without deciding such question, the fact that it Was not
in terms specially set up and claimed in the record is rot conclusive agdinst a review of the question here. But the difficulty in this case is that, before it could be said that any right
or title under a statute of the United States had been denied,
it was necessary to establish as a question of fact priority of
possession on the part of the Telluride Company, as well as
conformity to local customs, laws and decisions. These were
local and not Federal questions. The.jurisdiction of this court
in this class of cases does not extend to questions of fact or
of local law, which are merely preliminary to, or the possible
basis of, a Federal question.
The writ of error must, therefore, be
Dismissed.

