OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

for the delivery of the pipe, and that right would not be
affected by the fact that the contract might be subsequently
awarded to some one outside the State as the lowest bidder.
In brief, their right to combine in regard to a proposal for
pipe deliverable in their own State could not be reached by
the Federal power derived from the commerce clause in the
Constitution.
To the extent that the present decree includes in its scope
the enjoining of defendants thus situated from combining in
regard to contracts for selling pipe in their own State, it is
modified, and limited to that portion of the combination or
agreement which is interstate in its character. As thus modified, the decree is
.4fir"med.

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLATT .
No. 19. Argued October 10, 1899. -Decided

December 4,1899.

Under the laws of Mexico prior to 1848, an alcalde had no power to make a
grant of public lands.
Where petitioner produced oral testimony tending to show a grant of lands
by the governor of New Mexico, and an order upon the alcalde to put
the grantee in possession; and also gave evidence tending to show that
these documents were afterwards lost or destroyed, and at the same time
produced a grant by the alcalde in which no reference whatever was
made to a prior grant.by the governor,'it was heLz that the grant of the
alcalde was inconsistent upon its face with the alleged grant by the governor, and with the other circumstances in the case, and that the claim
was properly rejected by the Court of Private Land Claims.
Possession to laud since the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in 1848, will not
of itself give a valid title to land ; nor will it create the presumption of
a valid grant where a void grant appears to have been made; or in case the
surrounding circumstances are incompatible with the existence of a valid
grant.

Tars was a suit instituted by the appellant in the Court of
Private Land Claims for the confirmation of a grant of land
situate in the county of Shn Miguel, New Mexico, known as

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the "Apache- Springs," or "Ojo del Apache" grant, and
alleged to contain elev.en square leagues, or 47,743 square acres.
The amended petition alleged, substantially, that prior to
June 2, 1842, Manuel Armijo, then governor of New Mexico,
granted the tract in question to Venturo Trujillo, in accordance
with his petition for the same, and by decree directed the constitutional alcalde of the demarcation of San Miguel del Bado
to place the petitioner in possession; that said alcalde subsequently made return that he had placed the petitioner in juridical possession of the lands as directed, and that this return
with the original papers were duly deposited in the archives

of New Mexido.
Petitioner further alleged that he had neither the original
of said petition, nor a copy thereof, nor the decree of the governor, nor the return of the alcalde, in his possession; and
that neither of them is in the possession of the surveyor general of New Mexico; but he alleged that the archives of New
Mexico, previous to the occupation of the Territory by the
United States, and for some time thereafter, were kept carelessly, and many of the papers and documents, including those
therein mentioned, were lost and destroyed; and prayed that
he might be permitted to give secondary evidence of the petition, decree and order of the governor, and of the return of
the alcalde.
He further alleged that on July 2, 1842, Damasio Salazar,
a justice of the peace of the demarcation of San Miguel del
Bado, now embraced within the limits of the county of San
Miguel, acting in conformity with the laws and customs of
Mexico, placed Wenturo Trujillo in possession of the tract
so granted; that he entered into such possession and occupied the same for about four years from July, 1842, and
that, by sundry mesne conveyances from him to parties who
continued such possession, the petitioner, by virtue of the
original grant and these mesne conveyances, now claims the
ownership of the whole of said tract; and that ever since
the year 1842, and at the present time, the said grantee,
Venturo Trujillo, and his legal representatives and those
claiming under him and them, have held, claimed, used and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

occupied, owned and grazed upon, peaceably and notoriously,
the whole of said lands.
That no survey of the tract has ever been made.; that petitioner cannot state the amount, but that it does not exceed
eleven leagues; that one Taylor, who was then the owner of the
grant and one of the mesne grantees, made application to the
surveyor general of New Mexico for the approval of said grant
under the law of July 22, 1854, which was rejected December 19,
1872, upon the ground that the grant was made by a justice of
the peace, who, under the laws of New Mexico, had no power to
make a grant of lands ; that subsequently, and upon September
22,1873, application was made to the surveyor general to reopen
the application for confirmation, and to receive new testimony
which had been discovered. The application was granted, so
far as to permit the new testimony to be introduced, and the
depositions of Guadalupe Miranda, secretary'of New Mexico
during the adminstration of Governor Armijo, and of Rafael
Aragon, secretary of Damasio Salazar, the constitutional alcalde
who placed Trujillo in possession, were taken and made a part
of the petition. The application was again rejected by the
surveyor general upon the ground that the depositions being
based entirely upon memory were insufficient to establish a
grant by the governor ; that Miranda and Aragon are now
dead; that the grant has, since July, 1842, remained in the possession of the grantee and his assigns, and has been generally
recognized.
No question was made with regard to the interniediate conveyances to the petitioner or of the other formal allegations
bringing the case within the provisions of the act establishing
the Court of Private Land Claims.
The case was tried by the court upon the pleadings and
evidence, the claim rejected, and the petition dismissed by a
majority of the court. Petitioner thereupon appealed to this
court.
.

. B. Catron for appellant.

.X'r. WIlam - Pope for appellee. .16'. Soliitar GeneraZ
and
'. .fatthew G.,1Reynolds were on his brief.

HAYS p. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTicE BRowN, after making the above statement of

the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only documentary evidence of title which appears in
the record is the following translation of a grant purporting to
have been signed by Damasio Salazar, described therein as a
justice of the peace. In the original Spanish he is described
as Jues de pas (paz) and subsequently as "alcalde":
"Translation.
Seal fourth.
(Seal.)
One fourth real.
For the years eighteen hundred and forty and eighteen hundred and forty-one.
"In this second demarcation San Miguel de Bado, on the
second day of the month of July of the present year eighteen
hundred and forty-two, before me citizen Damasio Salazar,
justice of the peace of said precinct, personally present
appeared citizen Bentura Trujillo, citizen and resident of
the first demarcation, soliciting the place and land commonly
called the Ojito del Apache, to establish, in company with his
children, a farm on which he believes he will have the means
necessary for the support of a large family, and to give tithes
(illegible) and the holy church their corresponding portions,
and I, said alcalde finding the petition to be a just one and
aciing in conformity with the supreme decrees, have made
him said donation in the name of God and the supreme
Mexican nation, so that as a good compatriot he may make
use of it, observing the requirements which our laws provide,
under the condition and restrictions that if he does not provide
a protection to prevent the damages which may result to him,
he is under obligation to bear them, it being commons and
pasture grounds of the inhabitants of this precinct; and the
boundaries corresponding to said grant are on the north the
mesa; on the south the old road to Los Ohupaines; on
the east the Mesa de los Chupaines; and on the west the
hills bordering on Cafioncito de la Lagunita; and in order
that this foregoing instrument may have the force and
validity by law required the aforesaid Trujillo requested me

252

OCTOBER TERM/, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to interpose my authority and judicial decree, and I, the said
justice, declared that I would interpose, and did interpose, as
far as I am authorized by law, those of my attendants signing
with me with whom I act by appointment, for the notorious
lack of a notary public, there being none of any kind in this
department. In form. of law, to all of which I certify.
DArAsio SLAzR.

Attending: RAFAL. ARAGO.
Attending: SALvADoR GoNzALEs.
"And it is given on this ante-stamped paper, there being
none of the proper stamp.
SALAhZAR."

1. The theory of the petitioner is that, some time prior to
the date of this document, there was a grant by Governor
Armijo to Venturo Trujillo, in accordance with his petition,
and that the governor by his decree directed Salazar, the
alcalde, to deliver to the petitioner juridical possession of the
land; that said alcalde afterwards made return to the effect
that he had done so, and that these documents were deposited
in the archives of New Mexico, but were subsequently, and
about the time of the occupation of the territory by the
United States, lost and destroyed. In support of this theory
he produced the deposition of Guadalupe Miranda, secretary
of the Territory. of New Mexico during the administration of
Governor Armijo, taken November, 1873, to the effect that he
was acquainted with Trujillo, and remembered that, about the
year 18441 or 1842, he petitioned the governor for this grant
of land; that the governor granted the petition, issued a
decree to that effect, and directed the constitutional alcalde to
place him in possession, "which said decree he signed as
governor of the territory, and I signed the same along with
him as secretary of said territory;" that the alcalde subsequently made return tfhat he had placed the petitioner in possession, in obedience to the decree of the governor, and that
these papers were duly deposited in the archives of New Mexico and remained under the charge of deponent as public
records, he being at that time the legal custodian, and that

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

from this time Trujillo was considered and reputed as the lawful owner and possessor of the lands by the people in general,
as well as by the territorial authorities.
Petitioner also produced the deposition of Rafael Aragon,
taken about the'same time, a man seventy-seven years of age
and a laborer by occupation, who testified that the grant was
made to Trujillo 'and his children in the year 1841 by the
Alcalde Damasio Salazar; that witness was at the time the
secretary of the alcalde, wrote the grant, and that the same
was made under and by virtue of an order of the governor.
In his own words he says: "The order referred to was a written one addressed to said Alcalde Salazar through Guadalupe
Miranda, secretary of state of the government, and was of
about this tenor, to wit: I am directed by his excellency the
governor to say to you that upon the receipt hereof you will
proceed to the place called the Ojito del Apache and Will
there place the petitioner, Ventura Trujillo, in possessioii of
that land. Salazar was addressed in this communication as
the alcalde of the second demarcation of San Miguel, and the
communication was deposited among the archives of the
alcalde's office. The directions of the order were carried out
by the alcalde by placing Trujillo in possession of the land,
and the alcalde then reported to Secretary Miranda that the
governor's order had been duly executed. Salazar went upon
the spot in company with Trujillo and placed the latter in
possession by pointing out and designating to him the boundaries of the tract. Trujillo went upon the land to occupy it,
I think, in July, 1842. He occupied the place four years,
having built upon it a small house, constructed some small
tanks, and planted some ground. He was succeeded on the
place by Juan Lucero, he by Jesus Casados, and he by John L.
Taylor, here present."
Francisco Trujillo also testified that his father, who was
Ventura Trujillo, had brought a very rich woman from the
Comanbhes, and after that, the Mexican government made
this grant to his father, and that there was an order signed by
the government (governor) with a man to go and deliver the
land to his father. That he knows the order was signed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Governor Armijo, and declared (directed) Damasio Salazar to
go and deliver the land. That the land was delivered in the
year 1842. That he was present when it was delivered by
Salazar and Rafael Aragon, his secretary, and that a communication was signed stating that it had been delivered. He
also states that he heard Salazar say, in respect to the order of
the governor, that the order was to deliver the land to his
father, and then he says that Damasio Salazar sent a communication to General Arm ijo, stating that the land had been
delivered. That his father and Damasio Salazar both told
him that it had been sent.
Upon the other hand, however, an inspection of the document signed by Salazar shows no reference whatever to a grant
made by the governor or any order made by the governor
directing him to put the grantee in juridical possession, although
in making the grant he purports to be acting "in conformity
with the supreme decrees," which means nothing more than
he is acting in conformity with the laws of the land. The grant
certifies that Trujillo personally appeared before him, solicited
the land as a farm for the support of a large family, and that
he, the alcalde, "finding the petition to be a just one, and acting in conformity with the supreme decrees, have made him
said donation in the name of God and the supreme Mexican
nation, so that as a good compatriot he may make good use of
it," under certain conditions, and "in order that this foregoing
instrument may have the force and validity by law required,
the aforesaid Trujillo has requested me to interpose my authority and judicial decree, and I, the said justice, declared that I
would interpose, and did interpose, as far as I am authorized by
law."

Not only is there no reference to a decree of the governor,
but it is doubtful whether the instrument was intended as an
absolute grant of the land or anything more than a usufruct,
as the donation is made "so that as a good compatriot he may
make use of it," the land being declared to be "commons and
pasture grounds of the inhabitants of this precinct."
Indeed, it is doubtful whether the reference in the petition
to a grant of the governor was not an afterthought, inasmuch

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.

255

Opinion of the Court.

as in a petition made by John L. Taylor (then clainiant of his
tract) to the surveyor general of New Mexico, about the year
1870, the following allegation is.
made as to the title: "Your
petitioner would further state that said grant of land was duly
made according to law and the usage and customs of the
laws of New Mexico on the second day of July, eighteen hundred and forty-two (1842) by one Damasio Salazar, a justice of
peace in the said county of San Miguel del Bado, to one J. 0.
Ventura Trujillo, a resident of said county of San Miguel del
Bado." 1No reference was made in this petition to a grant by
the governor. This petition having been rejected by the surveyor general, upon the ground that an alcalde had no power
to make donation of vacant public lands, Taylor, in 1873,
applied for a rehearing upon the ground of the newly discovered evidence of Miranda and Aragon to the effect that the
governor had made such grant. The petition was againt
(December 19, 1872,) denied, "the matter being now before
Congress."
It further appeared and was stipulated that a certain index
made by Antonio B. Vigil, completed in the year 1851, and
entitled "A general index of all documents of the Government
of Spain and Mexico up to the year 1846," contained no mention of any grant of the Ojo del Apache tract.
Upon the whole, we think it extremely iniprobable that, if
a grant had been made by the governor, no reference whatever should have been made to it by the alcalde, who, upon the
theory of the petitioner, was acting merely as the right hand
of the governor in putting Trujillo into possession. The document is not in the usual form of a return to an order of a governor to put a grantee into juridical possession of the land, of
which the reports and records of this court show many examples, but of an attempt by an alcalde to make a grant himself
upon the petition of an applicant. But if the governor had
already made the grant why should the alcalde undertake to
make one, or state the reasons why in his opinion it should be
made
He does not pretend to be acting pursuant to a decree of
the governor, and makes no mention of a delivery of juridical

OCTOBER TERTf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

possession, by going upon the premises with the petitioner,
pointing out the boundaries, plucking grass, or throwing
stones, taking the grantee by the hand and leading him over
the lands, or of any of the formalities which, under the Spanish and Mexican customs, were observed by the officer delivering possession. The document is suclh an one as the governor
might have been expected to execute, but by no means such
as to show that the alcalde intended to deliver juridical possession. In short, he assumed to do that which he had no
right to do, and carefully omitted to do that for which he had
complete legal authority.
When we consider what was required to be done under the
regulations for the colonization of the Territories of Mqxico,
made November 21, 1828, (Reynolds' Span. & Mex. Law, 141,)
in pursuance of the act of the Mexican Congress of August 18,
1821, (Reynolds, 121,) and the practice of the officers in that
connection, the failure to conform to the recognized methods
of disposing of public lands becomes still more important.
These regulations are stated in United States v. Cambuston,
20 How. 59, and United States v. Bolton, 23 How. 341, and
required -

1. That the governor of the Territory should be empowered
to grant vacant lands for the purposes of cultivation (Reg.
No. 1, Reynolds; 141);
2. That a petition should be addressed to the governor,
describing the applicant by name, country and profession,
and, as distinctly as possible, the land requested (Reg. No. 2);
3. That the governor should proqeed to obtain the necessary information with regard to the land and the petitioner,
and whether there be any objection to makihg the grant (Beg.
No. 3);
4. That, if the governor accede to the petition, he shall
make a grant, describing the boundaries of the land, to serve
as a title to the party interested, and refer it to a subordinate
officer, such as an alcalde, to make delivery of juridical possession
No. 8, Hall's Mex. Law, sec. 511);
. 5. (Reg.
A return
by such officer to the governor that he accompanied the petitioner to the lands and delivered possession to

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.

.257

Opinion of the Court.

him with the usual formalities observed for the investiture of
title;
6. That these papers should be placed of record in the
archives of the Territory, and that a copy, or testimonio, be
delivered to the petitioner. Whether the grant of the governor required the approval of the Departmental Assembly,
or Territorial Deputation, is not a question which arises in
this case. Reg. 5, 6, 7, Hall's Mex. Law, see. 580; United
States v. Reading, 18 How. 1, 7; Hornsby v. United States,
10 Wall. 224; United States v. Vigil, 13 Wall. 449.
Not a single one of these formalities appears to have been
observed, but we are left to infer from the testimony of two
or three witnesses, who swore to their recollection of what
took place thirty years before, that some of them were in fact
observed. When we consider that this testimony is contradicted, or at least rendered exceedingly improbable by the
only document which the petitioner is now able to produce,
we must admit that oral testimony of this kind forms a very
uncertain basis upon which to sustain a grant of lands. As
we said with respect to a somewhat similar state of facts connected with .an alleged grant of land in California, Luco v.
United States, 23 How. 515, 543 : "It may be received as
*a general rule of decision, that no grant of land purporting
to have issued from the late government of California should
be received as genuine by the courts of the United States,
unless it be found noted in the registers, or the expediente,
or some part of it be found on file among the archives, where
other and genuine grants of the same year are found; and
that owing to the weakness of memory with regayd to the
dates of grants signed by them, the testimony of the late
officers of that govdrnment cannot be received to supply or
contradict the public records, or establish a title of which
there is no trace to be found in the public archives." In the
case of Peralta v. United States, 3 Wall. 434, it was said that
written documentary evidence, no matter how formal and complete, or how well supported by the testimony of witnesses,
if coming from private hands, is insufficient to establish a
Mexican grant if there be nothing in the public records to
VOL. CLXXV-17

OCTOBER TERI,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

show that such evidence ever existed. But it was intimated
that, if the claimant can show to the satisfaction of the court
that the grant had been made in conformity to law and
recorded, and that the record has been lost or destroyed, he
will then be permitted to give secondary evidence of its contents. See also Fuentesv. United States, 22 How. 443; United
States v. Xnight's Admrs., 1 Black, 227; United States v.Vallejo,
1 Black, 541.
In this case, however, the same uncertainty which exists
with regard -to a grant having been made by the governor,
necessarily attends the fact as to whether it was ever recorded,
and as no testimonio was ever delivered to the grantee, it must
be held that the existence of the grant has not been proved.
That ajustice of the peace, or an alcalde, had no power to
make a grant of public lands is evident from the character of
his office, which appears to have been analogous to that of an
ordinary justice of the peace, (Decree of July 22, 1833, Reynolds, 170, 176,) and from the failure to find any evidence in
the laws of Spain or Mexico that such power existed. Indeed,
such want of power is admitted by the petitioner. See Bey"nolds v. West, 1 California, '322; Crespin v. United States,
168 U. S. 208, 213.
2. In further support of his petition, the depositions of
several witnesses were introduced in evidence tending to
show that the tract in question had been occupied by the
original grantee and those claiming under him ever since
the date of the alleged grant, and, indeed, for some years
previous thereto. Upon the other hand, oral evideice was
introduced by the Government to the effect that the land in
question had never been occupied by the original grantee, but
that he and his family lived at the time of his death, and for
many years prior thereto, several miles distant from the land
in question. While Trujillo had been upon the land in 1842,
he made no improvements thereon, and after remaining a few
days left the premises with the remark that the document, for
which be paid three dollars to Salazar, was worth more than
the whole grant; also that the property at that time, and for
years subsequent to the possession by the Government of the

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, had been used as common pasturing ground for
the people of the vicinity, the alleged grantee or his representatives making no claim to be the ownor thereof.
That it should be used for pasturage by the neighboring
inhabitants is certainly consistent with the alleged grant;
which describes the lands as "commons and pasture grounds
of the inhabitants of this precinct," and there is nothing upon
the face of the grant indicating that this right of pasturage
was intended to be taken away. The grantee was apparently
to be allowed to establish a farm there for the support of his
family, but there is no intimation that he was to have the
power to exclude the inhabitants from their customary use
of such tract as commons and pasture grounds. Indeed,
giving the fullest credence to his testimony, there is little or
nothing to indicate that the possession of the grantee, under
the alleged grant, was characterized by the notoriety, openness and exclusive character necessary to make out a title by
adverse possession.
In addition to this, however, the possession did not begin
until 1842, and at the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in 1848, such possession had not lasted for more than
six or seven years. In other words, the claim bad not become
"complete and perfect at the date of the treaty, nor one that
claimant would have had .alawful right to make perfect had
the territory not been acquired by the United States," within
the meaning of the Court of Private Land Claims act. In
Crespin v. United States, 168 U. S. 208, the plaintiffs claimed
under a grant alleged to have been made in 1840, by a prefect,
and also by adverse possession since that time. We held, however, that the language of the act creating the Court of Private
Land Claims, above quoted, "would preclude the idea that
possession since the date of the treaty, however exclusive and
notorious, could be regarded as an element going to make up
a perfect title. There was no evidence of more than six or
eight years' possession prior to the date of the treaty, and
this, under any construction of the Spanish or Mexican laws,
would be insufficient to constitute a title against the sovereign."
See also Bergere v. United States, 168 U. S. 66, 77; layes v.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Lrited States, 170 U. S. 637, 649, 653. In this last case it is
said: "As the ordinary prescription could not apply, and as
the necessary time for the extraordinary prescription under the
Spanish law had not run at the time of the acquisition of
the territory by the United States, and as, clearly, whatever
may have been the rule as to the operation of prescription
against the Spanish or Mexican Governments, it did not run
after the treaty against the United States, it follows that the
claim of prescription is without foundation."
It would seem to follow from the general principle of law,
so often asserted, that the statute of limitations does not.run
against the Government, that no length of possession since the
treaty of 1848 would of itself give a valid title to land. How
far the long-continued possession prior to the date of the treaty
would be operative against the Spanish or Mexicai Governments, is a question which does not arise in this case, where
the possession did not exceed six years. See Lindsey v. 3filer,
6 Pet. 666; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92; Weber v. Harbor
Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57, 70; Sparks v. Pierce,115 UT. S.
408; Redfeld v. P'arks, 132 U. S. 239.
In United Statei v. De Haro, 22 How. 293, there was a
grant made in 1843 by Governor Alvarado of California,
and, with a possession of sixteen years thereafter, was held
to be sufficient presumption of a legal grant, but there was
no requirement as above stated with regard to the Court of
Private Land Claims act. In United States v. Chaves, 159
U. S. 452, there was evidence of an original grant in 1.833 by
the Government of New Mexico, althodgh the original records
had been lost. The grant was proved by secondary evidence,
and a possession of sixty years thereunder, and it was held that
a legal grant might be presumed upon proof of adverse possession for twenty years, the court observing: "Nothing, it is
true, can be *claimed by prescription which owes its origin to,
and can only be had by, matter of record; but lase of time
accompanied by acts done, or other circumstances, may warrant the jury in presuming a grant or title by record."
The doctrine at the foundation of that case is thus stated
by Mr. Justice Story in Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59,

11AYS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

109 : "A grant of land may as well be presumed as a grant
of a fishery, or of common, or of a way. Presumptions of
.this nature are adopted from the general infirmity of human
nature, the difficulty of preserving muniments of title, and the
public policy of supporting long and uninterrupted possessions.
They are founded upon the consideration that the facts are
such as could not, according to the ordinary course of human
affairs, occur, unless there was a transmutation of title to, or
an admission of an existing adverse title in, the party in
possession. They may, therefore, be encountered and kebutted
by contrary presumptions; and can never fairly arise where
all the circumstances are perfectly consistent with the nonexistence of a grant; afortiori,they cannot arise where the
claim is of such a nature as is at variance with the supposition
of a grant. In Oeneral, it is the policy of courts of law to
limit the presumption of grants to periods analogous to those
of the statute of limitations, in cases where the statute does
not apply. But where the statute applies it constitutes, ordinarily, a sufficient title or defence, independently of any presumption of a grant, and therefore it is not generally resorted
to. But if the circumstances of -the case justify it, a presumption of a grant may as well be made in the one case as
in the other; and where the other circumstances are very
cogent and full, there - is no absolute bar against the presumption of a grant, within a period short of the statute of limitations."
But this presumption is subject to the limitation that where
title is claimed from a deed which is shown to be void, it will
not be presumed that there was an independent grnt, Smith
v. Higbee, 12 Vermont, 113, or where surrounding circumstances are inconsistent with the theory of a grant. Townsend
v. Downer, 32 Vermont, 183.
The substance of this doctrine is that lapse of time may be
treated as helping out the presumption of a grant, but where
a void grant is shown, it affords no presumption that another
valid grant was made. Nor does such presumption arise if
the surrounding circumstances are incompatible with the
existence of a grant. In the case under consideration we

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

cannot find any evidence which justifies us in believing that
a legal grant can have been made, and under those circumstances we cannot consider possession since the date of the
treaty as dispensing with the requirement that the title, if
not perfect at that time, was one which the claimant would
have had a lawful right to make perfect, had the territory
not been acquired by the United States.
In the view we have taken of this case, it becomes unnecessary to consider whether Governor Armijo had power or
authority to make a grant of public lands without the assent
of the territorial deputation or departmental assembly.
The judgment of the pourt below must therefore be
Affirmed.

BOLLES v. OUTING COM[PANY.
ERROR TO CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

No. 47. Submitted October 16, 1899.

-Decided

CIRCUIT.

December4, 1S99.

In an action under Rev. Stat. ยง 4965 to recover a penalty of one dollar for
every copy of an engraving or photograph infringing the copyright of
another, the plaintiff's recovery is limited to copies actually found in the
possession of the defendant, and does not extend to copies already sold
and put in circulation.
A party who does not take out a writ of error will not be heard to complain
of adverse rulings in the court below.

THIS was .an action begun April 18, 1894, by Charles E.
Bolles, a resident of the city of Brooklyn, New Yoik, for the
penalty provided for the infringement of the copyright of a
photograph, by Rev. Stat. see. 4965. This section enacts that
"if any person, after the recording of the title of any map,
chart, musical composition, print, cut, engraving or 2 hotogravh,
as provided by this chapter, shall, within the time
limited, and without the consent of the proprietor of the
copyright first obtained in writing, signed in presence of two
or more witnesses, engrave, etch, work, copy, print, publish

