ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

BANK v. UNITED STATES.

37

Opinion of the Court.

ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN BANK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 31. Submitted October 11, 1899.-Decided October 80, 1899.

This court has no jurisdiction to review, on appeal, a judgment of a Circuit
Court of Appeals, affirming a decree of the Circuit Court below which
overrules the decision of a Board of General Appraisers in a port of
entry, appointed under the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, and which sustains as valid, duties levied and collected by the collector of the port
into which the g6ods were imported.
The United States was properly made a party defendant in this suit, in
this court, in the place of the Secretary of the Treasury.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.

. William Pinkney Whyte for appellant.

.r. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
.Mr. Felix Brannigan was on his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLE
court.

delivered the opinfion of the

This was a petition filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the-Northern District of California by the Secretary of the Treasury, under the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407,
26 Stat. 131, commonly known as the customs administrative
act, for the review of a decision of the Board of General
Appraisers in the matter of the classification of certain steel
T rails imported at San Francisco by the Bank of California
and withdrawn on its authority by the Anglo-Californian
Bank, Limited. The duties levied by the collector were paid
under protest, and the protest sustained by the Board of General Appraisers. The Circuit Court reversed the decision of
the Board, 71 Fed. Rep. 505, and the Anglo-Californian Bank
carried the case by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, which affirmed the decree of the Circuit
Court. 48 U. S. App. 27. After an unsuccessful application

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to this court for a writ of certiorari, 166 U. S. 722, the Bank
prayed the pending appeal, and the cause, coming on for argument, was submitted on printed briefs.
The proceedings were carried on below in the name of the
Secretary of the Treasury, but in this court, by agreement,
the United States were properly substituted as a party.
United States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109; United States v. olmpewell, 5 U. S. App. 137.
The judiciary act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517,
provides for the review of the final decisions of the Circuit
Courts by this court and by the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
Section five specifies the classes of cases which may be brought
directly to this court, and section six confers appellate jurisdiction in all other cases on the Circuit Courts of Appeals,
whose judgments or decrees in certain enumerated classes of
cases are made final by the statute. At the same time the
section provides that the Circuit Courts of Appeals may certify
to this court any questions or propositions of law concerning
which instruction is desired for the proper decision of pending cases, and that these may be answered or the whole cause
required to be sent up for consideration. And it is also provided that those cases in which the judgments or decrees of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final may be required
by this court, by certiorari or otherwise, to be certified to it
for review and determination.
This is not an appeal from the Circuit Court directly to this
court, nor does the case fall within either of the classes of
cases enumerated in section five, in which such an appeal
would lie.
No question or proposition of law concerning which the
Circuit Court of Appeals desired the advice of this court was
certified, and, on the contrary, the decree of the Circuit Court
was affirmed by the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
with costs.
The case is not before us on certiorari, but on appeal, and
an appeal does not lie in those cases in which the judgments
or decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are made final by
the statute. Among those cases are cases ",arising under the

ANGLO-CALIFORNIAi

BANK v. UIITED STATES.

39

Opinion of the Court.

revenue laws," and as this is such a case, the appeal cannot be
maintained.
It is true that under the act of June 10, 1890, an appeal
would lie directly from the Circuit Courts to this court if. the
Circuit Court should be of opinion that the question involved
was of such importdnce as to require a review of its decision
by this court, and that in the order allowing this appeal the
Circuit Court of Appeals stated "tha t the question involved is
of such importance as to require a review of said decision and
decree by the Supreme Court of the United States;" but this
is not an appeal from the Circuit Court, and, moreover, the
judiciary act of March 3, 1891, prescribes a different rule as to
the prosecution of appeals.
In United Stats v. Ainerican Bell TelZ~hone Com2any, 159
U. S. 548, it was held that this courthad jurisdiction by appeal
over a decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit brought
by the United States in the Circuit Court to cancel a patent
for an invention.
The argument was pressed that the appeal could not be
maintained because the decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
were made final by the act in cases "arising under the patent
laws," and that that was such a case. In view of the fact,
however, that the United States instituted the suit as a sovereign in respect of alleged miscarriage in the exercise of one
of its functions as such, it was thought that considerations of
public policy forbade imputing to Congress the intention to
include the case in that category.
We observed that actions at law for infringement, and suits
in equity for infringement, for interference, and to obtain
patents, being brought for the vindication of rights created by
the patent laws, were clearly cases arising under those laws,
and came- strictly within the avowed purpose of the act of
March 3, 1891, to relieve this court of that burden of litigation
which operated to impede the disposition of cases of peculiar
gravity and general importance. But there was nothing in
the objects sought to be attained and the mischiefs sought to
be remedied by the act which furnished foundation for the belief that Congress intended to place a limitation on our appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

late jurisdiction in a suit in which the United States were
plaintiffs and appellants, and which was brought in effectuation of the superintending authority of the Government over
the public interests.
We do not think the present appeal comes within the ruling in that case.
ApeaZ dismied.

DE LA YERGNE REFRIGERATING MACHINE COMPANY v. GERMAN SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 45. Argued April 7, 11, 1899. -Decided

November 30, 1S99.

Under the laws of the State of New York, providing for the organization of
manufacturing corporations, such corporations are not authorized to purchase the stock of a rival corporation, for the purpose of suppressing
competition and obtaining the management of such rival.
Unless express permission be given to do so, it is not within the general
powers of a corporation to purchase stock of other corporations for the
purpose of controlling their management.
Where an action is brought upon a contract by a corporation to purchase
such stock for such purpose, it is a good defence that the corporation
was prohibited by statute from entering into it; even though the corporation may be compelled, in an action on quantum meruit, to respond for
the benefit actually received.

TIs was a consolidation of eight actions brought by the
German Savings Institution and seven other plaintiffs, in the
Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, against the De la Vergne
Refrigerating Company and John C. De la Vergne, its president and principal stockholder, pergonally, for a failure to
deliver to plaintiffs certain stock in the Refrigerating Company.
Certain personal property was seized upon attachment issued,
a forthcoming bond given therefor, and the several actions
were afterwards removed to the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Missouri upon the joint petition of the defendants.
In that court the several actions were consolidated and sub-

