OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

PEABODY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROMf THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND OLAfIS.
No. 50. Argued October 17, 1S99.-Decided January
8,1900.

This court holds in this case that there is no proof of any grant to the
petitioner or those under whom he claims, and affirms the judgment of
the court below in favor of the United States.
The claim of adverse possession (by those under whom the petitioner claims)
down to the time of the occupation by the United States, is not sustained by the proof.

TiE statement of facts will be found in the opinion of
the court.
-Mr.F. TF.Clancy for appellant.
.Ar. fatthew G. Reynolds for appellee.
eral was on his brief.
MR. JUSTIOE

PEOKHAm

-Y. Solicitor Gen-

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Private
Land Claims dismissing the petition of the appellant and
rejecting his claim to some 114,000 acres of land in the Territory of New Mexico, on the ground that it had not been sustained by satisfactory proof.
The petitioner in the court below in his petition for confirmation of the grant stated that on the 23d of February,
1824, JosAe Rafael Samora, a citizen and resident of Ojo Caliente, on behalf of himself and twenty-five other persons, citizens of the Republic of MHexico, and residents of said district
in the Territory of New Mexico, presented his petition for a
grant to them of the tract therein described and called the
Yallecito de Loyato, and the appellant's petition alleged that
the governor granted the prayer, made the grant of land
therein asked for, and diiected the alcalde to place the grantees in possession, and that on September 22, 1824, the alcalde
did place the grantees in juridical possession of the land, and
executed his certificate thereof, which was presented to and

PEABODY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

approved by the governor and delivered to the grantee, Jos6
Rafael Samora, for himself and his associates.
Various other facts were set up in the petition to show title
in the petitioner, which it is not necessary to state.
The answer of the Government put the facts in issue, and
the case duly came on for trial.
The following papers were put in evidence on the trial by
the appellant:
(1.) "Translation of M1uniments.
"Hon. constitutional alcalde of Abiquiu, Francisco Trujillo:
"I, Jos&Rafael Samora, citizen and resident in the district
of Ojo Caliente, together with twenty-five individuals of the
same district, appear before you with the greatest respect and
humility and in due form of law, and state, sir, that there
being sufficient land in the Vallecito of Lovato to give us in
possession we now ask that in the goodness of your heart you
grant us the same, for we have not any place wherein to plant
grain for harvesting, whereby we think the others, the residents of said district, will receive no injury.
"Wherefore we humbly request your honor, as our protector and as a lover of onr country, to grant us said possession, whereby we will receive favor and benefit.
"Abiquiu, February 23, 1824. For all those stated.
Jose IRAFARL S~AMo,.".

"I do hereby certify that the above is true and the land
applied for, public, and I do not recognize those applying for
the same as property holders.

Fit&wcseo T~u nIo."

(2.) (Unsigned Order.)
"The land applied for by Jos& Rafael Samora, together
with the twenty-five accompanying individuals in his petition,
in virtue of your report, you may proceed to place them in
possession, in order that they may not lose time in their labor
until the necessary formalities can be- had, which cannot be
verified at this time, the excellent deputation not being in
session to whom the matter pertains.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"I charge you to treat those unfortunate persons with consideration on placing them in possession, charging for your
labor according to their wants and not more than the fee bill
allows.
"God and (liberty). February 27, 1824.
(NYo Signature.)
"To the alcalde of Abiquiu."
(3.) The act of possession. This paper is signed by Francisco Trujillo, constitutional alcalde of the proper district, and
after declaring that by virtue of the decree of Bartolome Baca,
actual political chief of the province, given at Santa F6 on the
27th of February, 1824, on the petition presented by Jos6
Rafael Samora and his associates, requesting that there be
adjudged to them a tract of public land, the alcalde states:
"And having examined the said land and seeing its extent
and proportions, the parties interested being present and
others who joined them according to the list they presented,
and all having agreed among themselves that at no time
there should be interruptions or differences among them;"
he thereupon measured off to each one a certain quantity of
land and placed them in possession.
The alcalde also states that he charged them to endeavor to
fortify themselves for their own defence, etc. ; and as to the
lands of which he then delivered possession, he gave them
"to understand that as new colonists they shall exert themselves, not being authorized to exchange, sell or alienate the
same until they shall have acquired title or have sufficient
time to do so." This paper is dated the 22d of September,
1824. It is signed by Francisco Trujillo, but it does not
appear when the possession was delivered, the certificate
being dated at Abiquiu, which is many miles from the Vallecito, the location of the grant.
There was also put in evidence the act of possession in what
is called the Petaca grant, dated March 25, 1836, in which it
is stated that it is bounded on the west "by the boundary of
the Vallecito grant," which it is claimed by the appellant is
an admission of the existence of the grant in question.

PEABODY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Evidence in.regard to possession was also introduced.
Upon the question whether the papers thus proved showed
any grant of lands, the counsel for the Government contended
that they did not purport to grant any laud or pass any interest therein, but gave only a permissive possession preliminary
to a grant which was never obtained.
Without discussing the various other objections which were
raised against the confirmation of this alleged grant to the
petitioner, we are of opinion that the above objection was
well taken, and that there was no sufficient evidence of any
grant whatever.
The petition signed by Samora, in behalf of himself and
twenty-five .other individuals of the same district, asks that
the alcalde may give them possession of the land, -as they have
no other place wherein to plant grain for harvesting, and they
think that the others, the residents of the district, will receive
no injury, and therefore they request that the alcalde, as their
protector and as a lover of their country, may grant them
such possession, etc. At the very commencement, therefore,
we find that the petition was not one for the granting of title,
but simply one for the granting of possession to land, in order
that they might plant their grain for harvesting. Trujillo
certifies that the statement in the petition is true and the
land applied for is public, and that he does not recognize
those applying for the same as property holders.
Then comes the unsigned order directing the alcalde of Abiquiu to "proceed to place them (Samora, with the twenty-five
accompanying individuals iamed in the petition) in possession,
in order that they may not lose time in their labor until the
necessary formalities can be had, which cannot be verified at
this time, the excellent deputation not being in session to whom
the matter pertains." Then the certificate of Trujillo, which
is termed by the appellant "the certificate of the delivery of
juridical possession of the lands to the petitioner," shows on its
face that it was not the ordinary delivery of juridical possession under a grant of title to land, but that it was a mere
placing of the petitioner in possession under a license of the
authorities accompanied by a distinct statement that the peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tioner and his associates were not "authorized to exchange,
sell or alienate the lands until they shall have acquired title or
have sufficient time to do so."
These three papers, which form the basis of the appellant's
claim of title, fail when examined to show any title whatever
in him. There is in these papers no evidence of any grant of
title to these lands to Samora or his associates. It may be that
he and his associates hoped thereafter to obtain title, but it was
certainly not granted by these papers. This unsigned order
and the act of possession, when taken together, show that the
possession that was delivered and taken was preliminary to thetitle which was afterwards to be acquired, and there is no proof
that such title ever was thereafter obtained.
In De -Harov. United States, 5 Wall. 599, 627, the decree of
the government was, in that case, held to be a naked license
to occupy the land provisionally, and hence was not entitled
to confirmation under the act of Congress of March 3, 1851.
The distinction between the effect of a license to enter upon
lands uncoupled with an interest therein, and a grant of some
title, right or interest in lands, is stated by Mr. Justice Davis
in that case, in which he said: "A grant passes some estate
of greater or less degree, must be in writing, and is irrevocable unless it contains words of revocation; whereas a license
is a personal privilege, can be conferred by parol or in writing,
conveys no estate or interest, and is revocable at the pleasure
of the party making it."
It is urged that the fact of the possession by Samora and his
associates, and their heirs, grantees, etc., down to the time of
the American occupation of the country, is strong - if not conclusive - evidence of the making of a grant in accordance with
the original claims of those petitioners, and that a grant should
therefore be presumed.
The possession must be adverse, exclusive and uninterrupted,
and inconsistent with the existence of title in another.
Its character in this case, however, appears from the papers
not to have been adverse to the government, nor to have originated with a claim of title under a grant; and from the time
it was delivered up to the time of the American occupation,

PEABODY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

whatever possession there was, was entirely consistent with
that which was given by the above act, a; merely permissive
occupation, and therefore we cannot presume that it was subsequently changed to that of a possession under a grant, without any evidence of the existence of the grant other than-that
derived from the papers put in evidence, which show that such
possession Wvas permissive or by license only.
As is stated in Serrano v. United States, 5 Wall. 451, 461,
"There is no adverse holding here, 'but the possession was a
permissive one, and consistent with the proprietary interests
of Spain and Mlexico; and the fact that those governments did
not terminate the possession, which was a mere tenancy at will,,
cannot create an equity entitled to confirmation. - Serrano
held under a license to occupy, and that license could be
revoked at any time. The failure to revoke it cannot change
the original character of the possession into :an adverse one.
If Serrano had entered into possession under a claim of right,
and had title papers, though imperfect, he might say that the
length of his possession entitled him to the favorable consideration of the court. Not so, however, where he had no interest in the land, never applied for any, either.to Spain or Mexico,
and was content with a permission to occupy it for the purposes of pasturage." This was the character of the possession
of the grantors of the petitioner. Indeed, whilst under the
civil law, including the Spanish law, one may prescribe beyond
his title, he cannot do so contrary to the title. See Zeringue
v. Jlarang,17 La. 349; N~eel v. Hibard, 30 La. Ann. 309.
One of the difficulties in the petitioner's case is that the act
of possession absolutely negatives the giving of it under a
grant passing any interest in the lands. That act stated that
those who are placed in possession are hot " authorized to
exchange, sell or alienate the same until they shall have
acquired title," etc. A grant, therefore, would not be presumed even upon proof of exclusive and uninterrupted possession, so long as it was entirely consistent with the evidence
produced in the case, which shows that it originated in a mere
license, and there is no proof from -which it can be claimed
that its character changed from that of a licensee to that of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

one in possession adversely and under a claim of title by a
grant from the Government.
The fact that a subsequent grant to other parties of other
lands was therein bounded by "the boundary of the Vallecito
grant," is no evidence of a change of the character of the possession already mentioned. The petitioner being in possession,
an' particular boundary thereof may very well have been
taken as a boundary for a grant to other parties subsequently
made of other lands, and the description of the land in the
other grant, that it was bounded by the Vallecito grant, is
inadequate as proof of the legal existence of that latter grant.
Upon the ground that there is no proof of any grant in this
case, we are of opinion that the judgment of the Court of
Private Land Claims was right, and it is, therefore,
Afirmed.

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
.AYPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND OLA.MS.
No. 14.

Argued October 1T, 18, 1899. -Decided

December 22,1899.

In Mexico, in 1831, a departmental assembly or territorial deputation bad
no power or authority to make a grant of lands; and the fact that the
governor presided at a meeting of the territorial deputation at the time
such a grant was made, makes no difference, as the power to make the
grant was exclusively in the governor, and tue territorial deputation had
no jurisdiction in the matter.

TH. statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. Frank TV. Clancy for appellait.
_Mr. -3atthewG. Reynolds for appellee. .r.
eraZ was on his brief.
Ym.

JUSTiCE PE KAm

Solicitor Gen-

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Private
Land Claims refusing to confiri the title of the appellant to

