OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

as to the laws, customs and usages of the Indians upon that
subject.
The title to the strip of land in controversy, having been
granted by the United States to the elder chief Moose Dung
by the treaty itself, and having descended, upon his death, by
the laws, customs and usages of the tribe, to his eldest son and
successor as chief, Moose Dung the younger, passed by the
lease executed by the latter in 1891 to the plaintiffs for the
term of that lease; and their rights under that lease could not
be divested by any subsequent action of the lessor, or of Congress, or of the Executive Departments. The construction
of treaties is the peculiar province of the judiciary; and,except in cases purely political, Congress has no constitutional
power to settle the rights under a treaty, or to affect titles
already granted by the treaty itself. Wilsomv. Wall, 6 Wall.
83, 89; Reichart v. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; -Smnitk v. Stevens, 10
Wall. 321, 327; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211,24:7.
The Congressional resolution of 1894, and the subsequent
proceedings in the Department of the Interiori must therefore
be held to be of no effect upon the rights previously acquired
by the plaintiffs by the lease to them from the younger chief;
and the
-Decreeis ctjzrmed.

SCUDDER v. COMPTROLLER OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE

SURROGATE'S

COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW

YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 55. Argued October 18, 1899.-Decided October 30, 1699.

A judgment of the highest court of a State, upholding the validity of a tax
assessed under a statute of the State, upon money deposited with a trust
company in the State by a resident of another State, cannot be reviewed
by this court on writ of error upon the ground that the proceedings
were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, when no such
ground appears to have been taken by the plaintiff in error, or considered
by any court of the State, before the final judgment.

SCUDDER v. COMPTROLLER OF NEW YORK.

33

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in .the opinion.
Mr. . Culbert Palmer for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Emmet R. Oloott for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a proceeding commenced September 27, 1895, in
the surrogate's court, by the comptroller of the city and
county of New York,.for the taxation of property of John F.
Houdayer, deceased, under the statute of New York of 1892,
c. 399, entitled "An act in relation to taxable transfers of
property," the material provisions of which were as follows:
"Sc. 1. A tax shall be and is hereby imposed upon the
transfer of any property, real or personal, of the value of five
hundred dollars or over, or of any interest therein or income
therefrom, in trust or otherwise, to persons or corporations
not exempt by law from taxation on real or personal property, in the following cases:
"1. When the transfer is by will, or by the intestate laws
of this State, from any person dying seized or possessed of
thd property while a resident of the State.
"2. When the transfer is by will or intestate law, of property within the State, and the decedent was a non-resident of
the State at the time of his death."
"SEc. 22. The words ' estate' and '.property,' as used in
this act, shall be taken to mean the property or interest
therein of the testator, intestate*, grantor, bargainor or vendor,
passing or transferred to those not herein specifically exempted
from the provisions of this act, and not as the property or interest therein passing or transferred, to individual legatees,
devisees, heirs, next of kin, grantees, donees or vendees, and
shall include all property or interest therein, whether situated
within or without this State, over which this State has any
jurisdiction for the purpose of taxation. The word I transfer,'
as used in this act, shall be taken to include the passing of
property, or any interest therein, in possession or enjoyment,
VOL. OcLxv-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

present or future, by inheritance, descent, devise, bequest,
grant, deed, bargain, sale or gift, in the manner herein prescribed." 1 Laws of New York of 1892, pp. 814, 815, 822.
The case, as stated by the Court of Appeals, was this: "On
May 21, 1895, John F. Houdayer died intestate at Trenton,
New Jersey, where he had resided for a number of years. In
1876 he opened an account with the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company of the city of New York as trustee under the will
of Edward Husson, deceased, in which he made deposits from
time to time of moneys belonging to the trust estate, as well
as moneys belonging to himself. This continued as an open
running account until his death, when the balance on hand
was the sum of $73,715, of which $2000 belonged to him as
trustee, and the remainder to himself as individual. The
appraiser deducted $3500 for the payment of debts and expenses, and included $68,215 in the appraisal, which was affirmed by the surrogate, but reversed by the Supreme Court."
150 N. Y. 37; 3 N. Y. App. Div. 474.
On October 6, 1896, the Court of Appeals reversed the
order of the Supreme Court, and affirmed the order of the
surrogate.
OnApril 4, 1898, the administrator of Houdayer sued out a
writ of error from this court, as against the comptroller, and
assigned the following errors:
"1First. That the property inquestion being situated in the
State of New Jersey, of which State also the decedent was a
resident at the time of his decease, the laws of the state of
New York have no application thereto, nor have. the courts of
New York jurisdiction thereof.
"Second. That by the law, as interpreted by the decision
and judgment herein, the legislature of the State of New
York attempts to exercise jurisdiction beyond the State, and
tQ affect contracts and rights of a citizen of another State,
which are protected by the Constitution and laws of the
United States and the judicial power granted to its courts,
and violates 'and*interferes with the sovereignty of the State
of New Jersey.
"Third, That the act of the legislature of the State of New

SCUDDER v. COMPTROLLER OF NEW YORK.

35

Opinion of the Court.

York, herein referred to, as applied to the facts and circumstances of this case,-or the act done under the authority of the
State of New York here complained of, is unconstitutional
and void as being repugnant to section 10 of article I of the
Constitution of the United States, in that it impairs the obligation of the contract between a non-resident depositor and
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York.
"Fourth. That the said act of the legislature, as interpreted
by the decision herein, is repugnant to the Fifth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
private property shall not be taken for a public use without
just compensation.
"Fifth. That the said act of the legislature, as interpreted
by the decision herein, is repugnant to section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Contitution of the United States,
by which States are forbidden to deprive citizens of life, liberty
or property without due process of law."
But the difficulty which lies at the threshold of the consideration of this writ of error is that none of the points
taken in the assignment of errors appear by the record to have
been made in any of the courts of the State.
The only statements of the grounds of the administrator's
objections to the proceedings below are these two: 1st. His
affidavit filed before the appraiser appointed by the surrogate,
averriig "that he objects to such proceedings, and opposes a
levy of any such tax upon such amount so on deposit, and
claims that said deposit is exempt under the laws and not
subject to taxation." 2d. His appeal to the surrogate from
the formal order of assessment, taken "on the ground that
the deposit in the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of
$71,715, standing at the time of the decedent's death in his
name as trustee, was a chose in action belonging to a non-resident decedent, and not property within this State subject to
taxation under the provisions of the act in relation to taxable
transfers of property; that the situs of the claim of the decedent against such deposit was at the domicil of the decedent, and not at the domicil of the said depository, and
such property being the property of a non-resident decedent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and situated out of this State, the same does not fall within
the purview of said act."
Both these statements clearly refer to the laws of New
York, and not to the Constitution of the United States. And
the opinion of the Supreme Court, as well as that of the Court
of Appeals, turns upon the question whether the sum due from
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of the city of New
York to the intestate at the time of his death was "property
within the State," within the meaning of the statute of 1892.
No mention of the Constitution of the United States, or of
any provision thereof, by the plaintiff in error, or by the court,
is to be found at any stage of the case while it was pending
in the courts of the State of New York; and it is impossible,
upon this record, to avoid the conclusion that it never occurred
to the plaintiff in error to raise a Federal question until after
the case had been finally decided against him in the highest
court of the State.
In order to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to
review a judgment which the highest court of a State has rendered in favor of the validity of a statute of or an authority
exercised under a State, the Validity of the statute or authority
must have been "drawn in question" "on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States." When no such ground has been presented to
or considered by the courts of the State, it cannot be said that
those courts have disregarded the Constitution of the United
States, and this court has no jurisdiction. Rev. Stat. ยง 709 ;
.furdock v. f.ferphis, 20 Wall. 590, 633, 634; Levy v. Superior Court of San Francisco,167 U. S. 175; Afiller v. Cornwall Railroad,168 U. S. 131; Columbia Water Power Co. v.
Columbia Railway, 172 U. S. 475, 488, and cases there cited.
Writ of error dismissedfor want ofjuridiction.

