OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

if reputation could be deemed property within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment, the state court did nothing that
could be regarded within the meaning of the Constitution, as
depriving the plaintiff of his reputation. It only adjudged
that the words used in a pleading in another suit could not be
made the fouhdation of an action for damages. If it erred in
so declaring, it was an error as to a matter of general lawv and
involved no question of a Federal nature; still less an error
which in any legal sense deprived the plaintiff of his reputation. It left his reputation as it was, and only adjudged that
he could not proceed against the defendants, and by judgment
and execution take their property in violation of what the
court deemed to be the principles of law governing the case.
There was, in our opinion, color for the motion to dismiss,
and therefore the motion to affirm may be considered; and as
the judgment below did not deprive plaintiff of any right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Qonstitution or laws of
the United States, it is
Aj)Thmed.

HAMILTON v. RATHBONE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLMMBIA.
No. 6. Argued November 15, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1899.

The right given to a married woman by section 728, Revised Statutes of
the District of Columbia, "to devise and bequeath-her property," applies
to all her property, and is not limited by the language of a prior act,
from which this section was taken, to such as she had not acquired by
gift and conveyance from her husband.
In the construction of statutes, prior acts may be cited to solve, but not to
create an ambiguity.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia by Grace Abbie B. iRathbone as plaintiff, against Frances Rebecca Hamilton, defendant, to recover an undivided one third interest in a parcel
of land of which the defendant Hamilton was then in pos"
session.

HAMILTON v. RATHBONE.
Statement of the Case.

The common source of title was one Abram Elkin, who
received his deed on July 31, 1867. He was married to Lucy
V. Elkin, April 15, 1863.
The plaintiff's chain of title was as follows: Deed from
Abram Elkin and wife to Fred. G. Calvert, April 29, 1872;
deed of same date by Fred. G. Calvert and wife to Lucy V.
Elkin. These deeds were evidently given to avoid a direct
conveyance from husband to wife. Both deeds ran to the
grantee, "his (or her) heirs and assigns, to and for his (or her)
and their sole use, benefit and behoof forever."
Lucy V. Elkin died May 3, 1876, leaving her husband,
Abram Elkin, and four children: (1) Grace, the plaintiff, subsequently married to Rathbone; (2) Lucy Caroline; (3) Charles
Calvert; (4) Harry Lowry, who died in 1885 at the age of
nine or ten years.
Abram Elkin disappeared in June, 1876, and has not been
heard of since.
Plaintiff sues for an undivided one third interest as one of
the heirs at law of her mother.
Defendant's chain of title was as follows: Lucy V. Elkin,
Who died May 3, 1876, leaving a will by which she appointed
Fred. G. Calvert, her brother, her sole executor. She directed
that all her property, real and personal, should be sold, and
gave her husband $1000 out of the proceeds of the sale,
directing that the residue of such proceeds, after .the payment
of funeral and other necessary expenses, should be divided
equally between her four children. Calvert duly qualified as
executor.
In February, 1879, as such executor, Calvert sold the land in
controversy to the defendant Frances Rebecca Hamilton, and
conveyed it to her by a deed (February 20) which recited that
the sale had been made under the power conferred upon him
by the will.
A plea of not guilty having been interposed, the case was
tried in the Supreme Court of the District by a jury, and a
verdict directed for the defendant. On appeal to the Court
of Appeals from the judgment entered upon the verdict so
rendered, that court set aside the verdict and remanded the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

case for a new trial. Rathbone v. Hamilton,4 App. Cases D. C.
475.
A second trial was had, and the jury instructed to return a
verdict for the plaintiff. From the judgment entered upon
this verdict, the defendant appealed to the Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment. Hlamilton v. Bathbone, 9 App.
Cases D. C. 48. Whereupon defendant Hamilton sued out a
writ of error from this court.
-Y. A. S. Worthington for plaintiff in error.
-Lipscomb was on his brief.
'. X. J

Colbert for defendant in error.

-Mr. A. A.
-Mr. H . G.

.Milans was on his brief.
MR. JusTicn' BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff brings ejectment as one of the heirs at law, namely,
the eldest of three children, of her mother Lucy V. Elkin, who
died May 3, 1876. Defendant relies upon a purchase made
by her from the executor of Mrs. Elkin's will. To establish
her title, then, plaintiff is bound to show that the property
did not pass under the will of her mother, but descended to
her heirs at law. The question whether it did so pass depends
upon the construction given to certain acts of Congress then
in force, relative to estates of married women.
By the act of April 10, 1869, c, 23, 16 Stat. 45, it was
enacted:
"That in the District of Columbia the right of any married
woman to any property, personal or real, belonging to her at
the time of marriage, or- acquired during marriage in any
other way than by gift or conveyance from her husband,
shall be as absolute as if she were feme sole, and shall not
be subject to the disposal of her husband, nor be liable for
his debts; but. such married woman may convey, devise and
bequeath the same, or any interest therein, in the same manner and with like effect as if she were unmarried.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That any married

HATMILTON v. IRATHBONE.
Opinion of the Court.

woman may contract, and sue and be sued in her own name,
in all matters having relation to her sole and separate property in the same manner as if she were unmarried; but neither
her husband nor his property shall be bound by any such contract nor liable for any recovery against her in any such suit,
but judgment may be enforced by execution against her sole
and separate estate in the same manner as if she were sole."
Under the first section, the right of a married woman to
dispose of her property as if she were a feme sole does not
apply to property acquired by gift or conveyance from her
husband. Did the case rest here, there could be no doubt
that Mrs. Elkin took this property from her husband subject
to such disabilities as were imposed upon married women by
the common law, except so far as the same may have been
modified by the statutes of Maryland then in force, Sykes v.
Chadwick, 18 Wall. 141, and the fact that she took title
through her brother, Fred. G. Calvert, as an intermediary
grantee, did not affect the question. Cammack v. Ca'penter,
3 App. D. 0. 219. The deeds from Abram Elkin to Calvert,
and from Calvert to Lucy V. Elkin, were made upon the same
day, recorded at the same hour of the same day, and both
were for the same nominal consideration of five dollars. Add
to this the fact that Calvert was the brother of Mrs. Elkin,
and the inference is irresistible that it was intended as a transfer from husband to wife. We concur in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals that "assuming the facts to exist as they
are stated in the record, there is no escape from the conclusion that the property was acquired by gift or conveyance
from the husband, though it was through the brother of the
wife of the grantor as mere medium of transfer of title.
There is no attempt to show that there was any real pecuniary
consideration for the deeds, and the consideration stated in
them is purely of a nominal character; and all the facts
attending the transaction show beyond doubt that the real
purpose and design of the husband was to transfer from himself to his wife the title to the property. The passing the
title through a third party in no manner changed the effect
of the transfer. Though the agency of a third party was
vOL. CLXXV-27

OCTOBER TERM\,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

employed, it was no less in legal effect and contemplation a
gift or conveyance from the husband to the wife."
Whether under the common law she held this property as
her separate estate with power to devise or otherwise dispose
of it, as if she were afeme sole, is a question which does not
arise in view of the statutes then existing, which we think
control the case.
In the revision of the statutes applicable to the District of
Columbia, (passed in 1874,) the above act of 1869 was rearranged and became sections 728 to 730, as follows:
"SEC. 727. In the District the right of any married woman
to any'property, personal or real, belonging to her at the time
of marriage, or acquired during marriage in any other way
than by gift or conveyance from her husband, shall be as
absolute as if she were unmarried, and shall not be subject to
the disposal of her husband, nor be liable for his debts.
"SEC. 728. Any married woman may convey, devise and
bequeath her _property, or any interest therein, in the same
manner and with like effect as if she were unmarried.
"SEC. 729. Any married woman may contract, and sue and
be sued in her own name, in all matters having relation to her
sole and separate property, in the same manner as if she were
unmarried.
"SEC. 730. Neither the husband nor his property shall be
bound by any such contract, made by a married woman, nor
liable for any recovery, against her in any such suit, but judgment may be enforced by execution against her sole and separate estate in the same manner as if she were unmarried."
The difference between these sections and the former act is
noticeable. By the first section of the act of 1869, the absolute right of a married woman over her property is not given
with respect to such property as she has acquired by gift or
conveyance from her husband. The final clause of this section reads as follows: "But such married woman may convey,
devise and bequeath the same," (that is, her separate property,
except as above stated,) "or any interest therein, in the same
manner and with like effect as if she were unmarried." The
firs clause of this section is repeated in Rev. Stat. sec. 727,

HAMNILTON v. RATHBONE.
Opinion of the Court.

but the second clause is thrown into a separate section (728),
which leclares that "any married woman may convey, devise
and bequeath 1erproperty or any interest therein, in the same
manner and with like effect as if she were unmarried." Literally, this section extends to all her property, and is not
limited to the "same" property described in section 727, and
thus excluding that which she acquired by gift or conveyance
from her husband. Unlder the act of 1869, therefore, the
power of a married woman to convey, devise and bequeath
her property does not extend to such as she acquired by gift
or conveyance from her husband, while under section 728 it
extends to all her property, however derived.
The second section of the act of 1869 likewise reappears
without change as sections 729 and 730, and no question is
likely to arise with respect to any differences in construction.
The decisive question then is whether section 728 is to be
construed as an independent act, or whether the plaintiff is at
liberty, by referring to the prior act from which it was taken,
t6 show that it was the intention of Congress to limit it to
the cases named in such prior act. The general rule is perfectly well'settled that, where a statute is of doubtful meaning and susceptible upon its face of two constructions, the
court may look into prior and contemporaneous acts, the
reasons which induced the act in question, the mischiefs
intended to be remedied, the extraneous circumstances, and
the purpose intended to* be accomplished by it, to determine
its proper construction. But where the act is clear upon its
face, and when standing alone it is fairly susceptible of but
one construction, that construction must be given to it." Heydon's case, 3 Fed. Rep. 76; United States v. F"eeman, 3 How.
556; Simythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374; Platt v. Union Paci,§c
Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 48; Thornley v. United States, 113
[T. S. 310; Viterbo v. Friedlander,120 U. S. 707, 724; Lake
County v. -Rollins,130 U. S. 662; United States v. Goldenberg,
168 U. S. 95.
This rule has been repeatedly applied in the construction of
the Revised Statutes. The earliest case is that of United States
v. Hirsch, 100 U. S. 33, in which a section (5440), defining

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and punishing conspiracies to defraud generally, was held not
to be restricted -by the prior act of March 2, 1867, from which
the section was taken, which was limited to conspiracies arising under the revenue laws.
The question was again elab6rately considered in the case
of United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508, in which it is
broadly stated that "when the meaning is plain the courts
cannot look to the statutes which have been revised to see if
-Congress erred in that revision, but may do so when necessary
to construe doubtful language used in expressing the meaning
of Congress." Rev. Stat. section 4820 enacted that "the fact
that one to whom a pefision has been granted for wounds or
disabilities received in the military service has not contributed
to the funds of the Soldiers' Home, shall not preclude him
from admission thereto. But all sucA pensioners shall surrender their pensions to the Soldiers' Home during the time
they remain there, and voluntarily receive its benefits."
Bowen was the- recipient of an invalid pension, but he had
contributed to the funds of the Soldiers' Home, and the
question was whether that fact withdrew him from the clause
which requires pensioners to surrender their pensions to the
home while inmates of it. The section was held to be limited
to those (" such ") who had 'not contributed to the funds of the
home, although by the act from which the section was taken,
all invalid pensioners who accepted the benefit of the home
were bound to surrender their pensions to its use while
there.
The language above quoted was repeated in Camlria I'on
Co. v. As/hburn, 118 U. S. 54, the court again holding that,
where the meaning of the Revised .Statutes is plain, it cannot
recur to the original statutes to see if errors were committed
in revising them. To the same effect are Defeback v. Hawke,
115 U. S. 392; United States v. Averill, 130 U. S. 335; United
States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, in which the court said that
if there were an ambiguity in a section of the Revised Statutes,
resort might be had to the original act from which the section
was taken, to ascertain what, if any, change of phraseology
there is, and whether such change should be construed as

HAMILTON v. RATHBONE.
Opinion of the Court.

changing the law. See also Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95.
Indeed, the cases are so numerous in this court to the effect
that the province of construction lies wholly within the domain
of ambiguity, that an extended review of them is quite unnecessary. The whole doctrine applicable to the subject may be
summed up in the single observation that prior acts may be
resorted to, to solve, but not to create an ambiguity. If'section
728 were an original act, there would be no room for construction. It is only by calling in the aid of a prior act that it
becomes possible to throw a doubt upon its proper interpretation. The word "property," used in section 728, includes
every right and interest which a person has in lands and
chattels, and is broad enough to include everything which
one person can own and transfer to another. The main
object of the revision was to incorporate all the existing
statutes in a single volume, that a person desiring to know
the written law upon any subject might learn it by an
examination of that volume, without the necessity of referring to prior statutes upon the subject. If the language of
the revision be plain upon its face, the person examining it
ought to be able to rely upon it. If it be but another volume
added to the prior Statutes at Large, the main object of the
revision is lost, and no one can be certain of the law without
an examination of all previous statutes upon the same subject.
As bearing upon the proper construction of this section we
are also referred to an act approved Tune 1, 1896, c. 303, 29
Stat. 193, entitled "An act to amend the laws of the District
of Columbia as to married women, to make parents the
natural guardians of their minor children, and for other purposes." The sections of the act, which are pertinent here, are
as follows:
"That the property, real and personal, which any woman
in the District of Columbia may own at the time of her marriage, and the rents, issues, profits or proceeds thereof, and
real, personal or mixed property which shall come to her by
descent, devise, purchase or bequest, or the gift of any person,
shall be and remain her sole and separate property, notwith-

OCTOBER TERNI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

standing her marriage, and shall not be subject to the disposal
of her husband or liable for his debts, except that such property as shall come to her by gift of her husband shall be
subject to, and be liable for, the debts of the husband existing
at the time of the gift.
"SEc. 2. That a married woman, while the marriage relation subsists, may bargain, sell and convey her real and personal property, and enter into any contract in reference to the
same in the same manner, to the same extent, and with like
effect as a married man may in relation to his real and personal property, and she may, by a promise in writing, expressly
make her separate estate liable for necessaries purchased by
her or furnished at her request for the family.
"SEc. 11. That sections seven hundred and twenty-seven,
seven hundred and twenty-nine, and seven hundred and thirty
of the Revised Statutes of the United States for the District
of Columbia, be and the same are hereby repealed."
It will be observed that, by the first section, all the property
of a married woman owned at the time of marriage, or which
shall afterwards come to her in any manner or from any person, shall remain her sole and separate property, notwithstanding her marriage, thus enlarging the operation of section
727, which limited it to such as she had not acquired by gift
or conveyance from her husband. ]By the second section
power is given to her to bargain, sell and convey her property
as if she were a married man, but nothing is said about her
power to bequeath it. It will be noticed, however, that while
sections 727, 729 and 730 of the Revised Statutes are repealed,
no repeal of section 728 is made. Evidently Congress understood section 728 to give to a married woman the power
to devise and bequeath her property withoit limitation, and
therefore allowed it to stand. If full effect be not given in
this case to section 728 as including all the property of a married woman, one of two results must follow: Either that the
law of 1896 changed the construction to be given to section
728, although it did not repeal or modify it; or the construction of that section, contended for by the plaintiff, must pre-

LA ABRA SILVER ]IIXhNG 00. v. UNXITED STATES.. 423
Syllabus.

vail, and married women are still under the disabilities of the
act of 1869, though that act and sections 727, 729 and 730
which reproduced it are expressly repealed. The more reasonable construction is that Congress understood section 728
to give to a married woman the power to devise and bequeath
her property without limitation, and therefore allowed it to
stand.
Our conclusion is that the property in question passed under
the will of Mrs. Elkin. The view we have taken of this subject renders it unnecessary to consider the other questions in
the case.
TheJudgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed, and
the case remanded to that court with instructionsto -reverse

the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and to remand the case to that court with direc-

tion to grant a new trial.

LA ABRA SILVER MINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAfS.
No. 29. Argued February 20, 21, 23, 1899.-Decided December 11,.1899.
The Commissioners appointed under the treaty between the United States
and Mexico concluded July 4, 1868, and proclaimed February 1, 1869,
(15 Stat. 679), having differed in opinion as to the allowance of the
claim of the La QAbra Silver Mining Company, a New York corporation,
against Mexico, the Umpire decidedofor that company and allowed its
claim, amounting, principal and interest, to the sum of $683,041.32.
Mexico met some of the instalments of the award and then laid b6fore
the United States certain newly discovered evidence which, it contended,
showed that the efitire claim of the La Abra Company was fictitious and
fraudulent. The Secretary of State thereafter withheld the remaining
instalments paid by Mexico, and upon examining the new evidence
reported to the President that in his judgment the honor of the United
States was concerned to inquire whether in submitting the La Abra
claim to the Commission its confidence had not been seriously abused,
and recommended that Congress exert its plenary authority in respect

