CANADA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO. 609
Syllabus.

right or privilege of the contractors, if they failed to complete
their work within the time limited, to have a further extension
or extensions of time, depended upon the judgment of the engineer in charge when applied to to grant such extension and
that no allegation or finding is shown in this record sufficient
to justify the court in setting aside the judgment of the engineer as having been rendered in bad faith, or in any dishonest
"disregard of the rights of the contracting parties.
These views lead to a reversal of the judgment of the court
below in so far as it sustains the claim to recover damages for
profits expected to inure to the plaintiffs if they had been permitted to complete the work.
As no actual damage or loss was definitely shown to have
been suffered by the Government by reason of the non-completion of the work, and as no forfeitures were declared at the
time of the several extensions, and may therefore be deemed
to have been waived, we affirm that portion of the judgment
of the court below allowing a recovery for the retained percentages of the compensation for work actually done and
accepted.
Accordingly the judgment of the Court of Claims is hereby
Reversed and the cases are remitted to that court with directions to enterjudgment in accordancewith this oinion.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, MR.JUSTICE BRoW-N and MR.JUSTICE

do not agree with the construction of the contract on
the subject of the power of the engineer officer, and therefore
dissent.
WHITE

CANADA SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 69. Argued October 26, 1899. -Decided

January 8, 1900.

This is a case where the owners of a cargo of sugar haoI insured the same
in the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, on and before April 29, 1893,
at and for the sum of $166,145; and had, on April 29, 1893, insured the
VOL. CLxxv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
profits on the cargo against total loss only in the sum of $15,000 in the
Insurance Company of North America. On July 6, 1893, the ship, whild
on her voyage, stranded on the coast of Newfoundland, became a total
loss, and the voyage came to an end. The master, representing all concerned, contracted with local fishermen to give them one half of the
sugar they could save. On July 8, 1893, the insurers of the cargo, having been notified of the disaster, took charge and possession of the remnants of the cargo, and purchased from the salvors the portion which,
under the agreement with the master, was theirs. The sugar was then
transported by a vessel chartered by the insurers, and on their account,
to Montreal. The value of the sugar that reached Montreal was about
$20,000, and the expenses, salvage charges and the additional freight
from Newfoundland to Montreal, paid by the Atlantic Mutual Insurance
Company, exceeded -$11,000. The insurers on the cargo settled with the
refining company as for a total loss under its policy for $166,145, and
the sugar saved was turned over to the refining company in part settlement of that sum on the basis of the average pro 'ata policy valuation.
The value of the entire cargo on April 29, !893, when the insurance on
profits was effected, was alleged in the libel and admitted in the answer
to have been about $181,000. The insurance company contested its liability upon the policy on profits on the ground, chiefly, that the receipt
by the libellant of a portion of the sugars, viz., about $20,000 in value,
prevented the loss from being total within the terms of the policy.
Held
(1) That the saved remnants of the sugar were taken exclusive possession of by the agents of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company,
were by them forwarded on account of that company to Montreal,
and were finally turned over to the Canada Sugar Refining Company, at an agreed valuation, in part payment of the claim of the
latter for total loss of cargo;
(2) That the facts disclose an actual abandonment by the Canada Sugar
Refining Company, to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company,
and the acceptance by the latter of such abandonment. Owing to
the prompt action of the insurance company in taking charge and
control of the cargo, and in adopting the agreement of the master
with the salvors, it was not necessary for the assured to go
through with all the usual forms of an abandonment. Neither of
the parties seems to have acted upon the supposition that any other
or more formal act of abandonment was necessary;
(3) That the libellant is entitled to recover the amount of the profits as
valued in the policy.

THE Canada Sugar Refining Company, a Canadian corporation, on November 27, 1894, filed a libel and complaint in
the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New York against the Insurance Company of

CANADA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

611

Statement of the Case.

North America, a Pennsylvania corporation, to recover insurance effected by the libellant with the respondent in the
amount of $15,000 on profits on a cargo of sugar shipped on
board the British ship John E. Sayre, at and from Iloilo to
Montreal, Canada. The respondent answered, the cause came
on- to be heard upon the pleadings, proceedings and- proofs,
and resulted, June 15, 1897, in a decree in favor of the libellant for the full amount of the insurance, with interest and
costs. The case was taken on appeal to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals, where, on April 23, 1898, a final
decree was. entered reversing the decree of the District Court,
and ordering that the libel be dismissed, with costs in both
courts to the appellant.
On the libellant's petition, on May 10, 1898, a writ of certiorari was granted, under which the cause and the record and
proceedings therein were removed into this court.
The material facts of the case were as follows:
On April 29, 1893, the respondent company insured for the
libellant's benefit:
"$15,000 on profits on cargo sugar; against total loss only;
valued at sum insured; shipped on board the British ship
John E. Sayre at and from Iloilo to Montreal."
At that time the Sayre was at sea prosecuting the voyage.
The libellant had 2462 tons of sugars on board of her, amounting in value to $181,000, and had just completed insurance
of the sugars to the amount of $166,145 in the Atlantic
Mutual, of which insurance the respondent was informed
before its insurance on profits was made. In July following
the Sayre stranded on the coast of Newfoundland, and all the
cargo was lost excepting about 300 tons, which was saved by
the aid of salvors, of which one half went to them as their
agreed compensation. The agreement was originally made
by the master soon after the stranding; but a few days afterwards the agent of the Atlantic Mutual appeared, to whom
the master turned over the salvage operations. He confirmed
the previous agreement with the salvors; reimbursed to the
master the expenses already incurred by him, and thenceforward, with the libellants consent and the defendant's

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge and acquiescence, took the complete control and
disposition of the cargo. The agent eventually bought from
the salvors the moieties of the sugars allotted to them under
the agreement, and then shipped all the sugar saved to the
order of the insurers to Montreal. The value of all the sugar
that reached Montreal was about $20,000, and. the expenses
and salvage charges paid by the Atlantic Mutual thereon, and
the additional freight to Montreal, exceeded $11,000, so that
out of the whole cargo worth $181,000 less than $9000 net
was saved. The Atlantic Mutual settled with the libellant
as for a total loss, under its policy of $166,145, and it turned
over the sugars saved in part settlement of that sum, on about
the basis of the .average pro rata policy valuation. The
respondent contested its liability upon the policy on profits
on the ground chiefly that the receipt by the libellant of a
portion of the sugars, viz., about $20,000 in value, prevents
the loss from being "total" within the terms of its policy.
2r.Vilhelinus .Mynderse for the Sugar Refining Company.
.Ifr. Clifford A. iand for the Insurance Company.
R. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after making

the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The District Court held that, by the stranding of the vessel
John E. Sayre, there had been caused, under the provisions of
the contract of insurance between the Canada Sugar Refining Company and the Insurance Company of North America,
a total loss of profits, and accordingly entered a decree in
favor of the libellant for the full amount of the insurantce,
with interests and costs. 82 Fed. Rep. 757.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, being of the opinion that
there had not been a total loss of profits within the meaning
of the contract, reversed the decree of the District Court, with
directions to dismiss the libel. 58 U. S. App. 22.
This difference of opinion arose from opposite views of the
legal conclusion to be drawn from the evidence of the facts

CANADIA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

613

Opinion of the Court,

attending the loss of the vessel and its cargo. Did those facts
disclose a total loss of the cargo, and, consequently, a total
loss of profits ? Or did they disclose that, within the meaning
of the contract, a portion of the cargo was delivered to and
received by the insured at the port of destination, and that,
therefore, there was not a total loss of profits ?
On February 10, 1893, the ship John E. Sayre, having on
'board a cargo of sugar belonging to the Canada Sugar Refining Company, sailed from Ilolo for Montreal. By several
contracts of insurance between the refining company and the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company the latter had insured
the former against the loss of the cargo in the sum of
$166,145.
On April 99, 1893, the ship being still on her
voyage, the refining company entered into a contract with
the Insurance Company of North America, of which the
material terms were as follows:
"This to certify that, on the 29th day of April, 1893, this
company insured under policy 117,407, made for Robert Rampson, fifteen thousand and -fQ° dollars on profits on cargo sugar
against total loss only, valued at sum insured, shipped on board
of the Br. ship John E. Sayre at and from Iloilo to Montreal,
and the loss, if any, subject to the terms and conditions of the
policy, has been made payable to the order of Canada Sugar
Refg. Co.Ltd. on surrender of this certificate."
It was provided in the policy referred to in the certificate
that "the acts of the insured or assurers, or of their joint
or respective agents, in preserving, securing or saving the
property insured, in case of damage or disaster, shall not be
considered or held to be a waiver or acceptance of abandonment;" and likewise, "it is further agreed that if the said
assured shall have made any other insurance upon the premises aforesaid, prior in date to this policy, then this insurance
company shall be answerable only for so much of the amount
as such prior insurance may be deficient towards sully covering the premises hereby insured, without any deduction for
the insolvency of all or any of the underwriters, and shall return
the premium upon so much of the sum by them insured as
they shall be by such prior insurance exonerated fromt."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

It is admitted that notice of the prior insurance was given
to the Insurance Company of North America at the time
when it entered into its contract with the refining company;
nor does it appear that the insurance company, before the
libel was filed, claimed that it was exonerated from any portion of its liability by reason of such prior insurance, or ever
tendered a return of any part of the premium by reason of
any such alleged exoneration.
On July 6, 1893, the ship stranded on the coast of Newfoundland, and ultimately became a total wreck. The crew
left the vessel, but the master remained, and, in the discharge
of his duty as agent of all whom it might concern, made an
arrangement with the local fishermen for the saving of cargo
by them at one half of what was saved. This resulted in
removal from the wreck of a pprtion of the cargo until July
8, when the work was finally abandoned. On that day an
agent of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company arrived in
the interest of that company. lHe at once took charge, and
relieved the master, who, under instructions of the owner of
the vessel, turned over the resdued portion of the cargo to
the agent. The previous disbursements made by the master,
amounting to $200, were paid to him by the agent of the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company.
The agent thereupon adjusted the claims of the salvors, in
pursuance of the agreement made by the master. The portion saved from the wreck weighed about 320 tons, of which
about one half was apportioned and set off to the salvors; but
nearly all of the sugars so assigned to the salvors were subsequently purchased from them by the agent.
The agent likewise paid to the shipowner his ocean freight,
and reconditioned the sugars saved from the wreck, placed
them in new bags, and then shipped them to Montreal on the
coasting steamer Tiber. The total expenditures of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, in respect of the salvage, the
care, reconditioning and forwarding of the sugars, amounted
to upwards of ten thousand dollars - not including the ocean.
freight, nor the freight from Newfoundland to Montreal.
Thus far, in the history of the transaotions, there seems to

CAN ADA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

615

Opinion of the Court.

be a substantial agreement between the statements of the
courts below of the facts upon which they based their respective.judgments. But we here meet with a difference, which,
in the view we take of the case, is of controlling importance.
The District Court, in the opinion by Judge Brown, states
that the agent of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company,
after having settled with the master and with the salvors,
"shipped all the sugar saved, to the order of the insurers to
Montreal;" and that "none of the sugar ever'came to the
libellant in the ordinary course of the voyage, or through any
delivery to the libellant as consignee by thecarrier; but only
through a delivery by the insurer of cargo, after a'practical
abandonment to the latter, and through a settlement by the
insurer as upon a total loss, in which the sugar was received
by the libellant upon an equitable basis in part payment, and
as the equivalent of its value in cash, as any other property
might have been received."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in its narration of events,
states that "the master was about to arrange for the trans-.
portation to Montreal of the part not going to the salvors,
when the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, which meantime had been informed of the disaster, intervened'and tbok
entire -control. That company carried out the agreement
made by the master with the salvors, paying them an equivalent in lieu of one 'half of the sugar saved, and caused the
sugar saved to be reconditioned and shipped to Montreal on
the steamer Tiber, and delivered upon arrival there to the
libellant."
Referring to the pleadings,, we find it averred in the libel
that the sugar, after having been brought to Montreal by the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company," was received by the
libellant on account of and in part payment for the loss sustained by the said. libellant, under its insurance with the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, and that credit was
given therefor to the said Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company in the amount at which the said 325 tons of sugar'were.
insr,red with the said the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company; and that the market value of the said- 325 tons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sugar in Montreal at the time it was received by the libellant was about $20,000."
The responsive allegations of the answer were as follows:
"This respondent further admits and avers, upon information
and belief, that from the wreck of said ship John IE. Sayre
there were forwarded to Montreal, the place of destination,
and there delivered to and received by the libellant, about
nine thousand nine hundred mats of the said sugar. of about
three hundred and twenty-five tons' net weight, and of the
value of about twenty thousand dollars," and "this respondent, upon information and belief, denies that the sugar so
delivered to the libellant was a payment by any underwriter
on account of a supposed total loss."
The evidence under this issue, dn the part of the libellant,
consisted chiefly of the bills of lading, three in number, and
dated August 4, 1893, given by the master of the steamer
Tiber to Harvey & Co. of St. Johns, N. F., and calling for
the delivery of-the saved sugar to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company at Montreal; and of the testimony of Drummond, of Harvey and of Pike. Drummond testified that he
was president of the Canada Sugar Refining Company; that,
as such, he made a sbttlement with a representative of the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company at Montreal, whereby
about three hundred tons of sugar were accepted by the refining company from the Atlantic Insurance Company, at
market rates of value, in part payment of the claim of the
refining company against the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company for total loss of cargo; that the sugar was shipped from
Newfoundland to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company at
Montreal, and, in the opinion of the witless, belonged to the
insurance company at the time of the settlement.
Harvey testified that he was a member of the firm of Harvey & Co., commission merchants, St. Johns, Newfoundland;
that in July and August, 1893, his firm acted for the Atlantic
Mutual Insurance Company, under instructions from that company; that his firm acted through Robert G. Pike as their
representative; that the sugar saved from the wreck of the
John E. Sayre was forwarded to Montreal to the order of the

CANADA SUGAR REFININTG CO. v. INSURANCE CO.. 611
Opinion of the Court.

Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company; that for expenses incurred by his firm in paying the salvors, the master's expenses,
and for storing, weighing, reconditioning and reshipping the
sugar, their firm received payment froni the Atlantic Mutual
Insurance Company in the sum of $10,066.97; that, at no
time, either before br after the wreck of the John E. Sayre,
did his firm have any connection with or receive any instructions from the Canada Sugar Refining Company, or any of its
officers or agents, or with the owners of the John E. Sayre.
Pike testified that he was sent by Harvey & Co. to the
scene of the wreck; that he there, on July 8, 1893, took
entire charge of the sugar that bad been saved; that he settled with the master and with the salvors; that he reconditioned the sugar and shipped it to Montreal, to the Atlantic
Mutual Insurance Company; that everything he did was in
pursuance of instruction from Harvey & Co., as agents of
the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company of New York; that
he never at any time had any communication with the Canada
Sugar Refining Company) or their officers or agents.
In the absence of any evidence offered under this issue by
the Insurance Company of North America, we think it clear
that the saved remnants of the sugar were taken exclusive
possession of by the agents of the Atlantic Mutual Insurance
Company, were by them forwarded on account of that company to Montreal, and were finally turned over to the Canada
Sugar Refining Company, at an agreed valuation, in part payment of the claim of the latter for total loss of cargo.
It is also evident, as we think, that the facts disclose an
actual abandonment by the Canada Sugar Refining Company
to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, and the acceptance.by the latter of such abandonment. Owing to the
prompt action of the insurance company in taking chdrge
and control of the cargo, and in' adopting the agreement of
the master with the salvors, it was not necessary for the
assured to go through with all the usual forms of an abandonment. Neither of the parties seems to have acted upon
the supposition that any other or more formal act of abandonment was necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In Columbian Insurance Co. v. Oatlett, 12 Wheat. 39
where the effect of actual abandonment, as dispensing, if
accepted, with formal notice, was considered, Justice Story
said:
"The latter gives notice of an intention to abandon, because
in its terms it includes an actual abandonment. It has a tacit
reference to the clause in the policy, and must be deemed as
a notice to abandon, and, at the same time, a declaration that
it shall operate as an abandonment in the case, as soon as
by law it may. In our judgment, it was a continuing act of
abandonment, and became absolute at the end of the sixty
days. It was an abandonment in yrwsenti, to take effect in
futuro. Neither the form of the notice, nor the abandonment, is prescribed in the cause. They may be in one or two
instruments; they may be in direct terms, or by fair and nataral inference. It matters not how they are given or executed;
it is sufficient, in point of fact, that they have been given or
executed."
"If an abandonment is wanting in any formality the insurer may waive all objection, and they do this by calling for
the proof and acting as if the abandonment were altogether
sufficient." (2 Parsons on Maritime Law, 398.)
"The rule dispensing with any particular form of abandonment amounts substantially to the rule that it is sufficient for
the assured to signify distinctly that he abandoned, and he
could not signify this more distinctly than by claiming a total
loss. I therefore conclude that the claiming of a total loss
is a sufficient expression of an intention to abandon." (2
Phillips on Insurance, 387.)
As the Canada Sugar Refining Company and the Atlantic
Mutual Insurance Company agreed upon an actual abandonment and settled on the basis of a total loss, it is not perceived that, in the absence of any allegation or proof of fraud,
the Insurance Company of. North America can be heard to
raise any question as to the formality of the proceedings.
It was suggested, but apparently was not pressed at the
argument, that there ought to have been an abandonment to
the Insurance Company of North America. In Jifumford v.

CANADA SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Halet, 1 Johns. 433, where there were separate contracts of
insurance on cargo and on profits, and where it was contended that the assured, by having abandon.ed the goods to
the underwriter, had disabled himself from recovering the
insurance on profit, it was said:
"But admitting that this is to be regarded as a valued
policy, it is said that the assured, by abandoning the cargo to.
its underwriters, has put it out of the power of the defendant
to receive any salvage on the profits, and that, therefore,' he
has no right to recover in this suit. This is a dilemma which
the defendant ought to have foreseen at the time of his subscription. He must have supposed there was a policy on the
cargo, which, in case of disaster, would naturally be abandoned
to those who had insured it. It is idle to complain of what
must have been clearly his own understanding of the contract;
nor is it reasonable in him to expect, that, for the purpose of
recovering on a small policyon profits, a merchant should;by not
abandoning the cargo, forego his insurance on that subject."
We shall content ourselves in this respect by quoting the
conclusion expressed in 2 Phillips on Insurance, see. 1503;
"A policy upon expected profits does not seem to "offer anything upon which an abandonment can operate, and it does
not appear from any speculation, or any judicial opinion, relating to this subject, which has come to my knowledge, that an
abandonment of this interest-can be of any importance to the
underwriters, otherwise than as a notice that a total loss is
claimed ; and if this is its only effect, an abandonment is not
necessary. .
.
Under an abandonment of freight, the
underwriters may, in some instances, avail themselves indirectly of what has been done towards earning freight..
They may receive the freight pro rata itineri per acti, for
the part of*the voyage performed previously to the event on
account of, which the abandonment is made. But not so of
profits; there is no profit, or anything like a profit, pro rata
itneri8_peracti, which can be assigned, or proved to be of any
value to the insurer. It does not appear, therefore, that an
abandonment of profits can be anything more than a nugatory
ceremony. . . . It has never been hinted that the assured

OCTOBER TEUM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

can make any claim upon the insurers for the profits on goods
abandoned to them, and if he has no such right, he cannot
transfer it to the underwriters on profits or to' any other
persons."
To briefly rehearse the facts, this is a case where the owners
of a cargo of sugar had insured the same in the Atlantic
Mutual Insurance Company, on and before April 29, 1893, at
and for the sum of $166,145; had, on April 29, 1893, insured
the profits on the cargo against total loss only in the sum of
$15,000 in the Insurance Company of North America; on
July 6, 1893, the ship, while on her voyage, stranded on the
coast of Newfoundland, became a total loss, and the voyage
came to an end; the master, representing all concerned, contracted with local fishermen to give them one half of the
sugar they could save; on July 8, 1893, the insurers of the
cargo, having been notified of the disaster, took.charge aifd
possession of the remnants of the cargo, and purb]iased from
the salvors the portion which, under the agreement with the
master, was theirs; the sugar was then transported by a vessel
chartered by the insurers, and on their account, to Montreal;
the value of the sugar that reached Montreal was about
$20,000, and the expeiises, salvage charges and the additional
freight from Newfoundland to Montreal, paid by the Atlantic
Mutual Insurance Company, exceeded $11,000; the insurers
on the cargo settled with the refining company as for a total
loss under its policy for $166,145, and the sugar saved was
turned over to the refining company in part settlement of
that sum on the basis of the average pro 'at policy valuation. The value of the entire cargo on April 29, 1893, when
the insurance on profits was effected, was alleged in the libel
and admitted in the answer to have been about $181,000.
The error of the Circuit Court ol Appeals, as we view the
case, was in regarding the portion of the cargo that was saved
and paid for by the Atlantic Insurance Company as having
been carried to Montreal and there delivered to the refining
company as the owner thereof, and as respects which, in that
state of facts, the refining company should be deemed to have
received profits on a part of the cargo.

CANADA. SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

621

Opinion- of the Court.

Without finding it necessary to enter into a discussion of
refined distinctions, considered in some of the cases, between
an actual and a technical total loss, we think it evident that
the' refining company would not receive the indemnity for
which it bargained and paid unless it is permitted to recover
in the present case. ]By such recovery it will not receive more
than will, with what it has received from the Atlantic Mutual
Insurance Company, make up its whole loss.
It certainly 'cannot be successfully claimed that, in order to
recover, the refining company was bound, in this suit on a
valued policy on profits, to put in evidence to show that it
would have received profits if the voyage bad been completed,
and the entire cargo had arrived safely. Such a contention
was considered and determined in The Pata,pco ns. Co. v.
Coulter, 3 Pet. 222. That was a case where the ship Mary
was proceeding on a voyage from Philadelphia to Gibraltar
and ulterior ports with a cargo of flour. There was an insurance on profits in the sum of five thousand dollars. While
the vessel lay at Gibraltar, before the discharge of her cargo,
she and her cargo were totally lost by fire. In an action
brought on the policy of insurance on profits in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, the
court was asked to instruct the jury that as the assured had
offered no evidence that the flour, if delivered and sold at Gibraltar, would have yielded a profit, they were not entitled to
recover. The refusal of the court so to charge was approved
in this court, in an opinion by Mr. Justice Johnson, from which
we quote, as follows:
1 "The third prayer for instructions is in these words: ' That
the plaintiffs had offered no evidence that the sales of the flour
at Gibraltar would have yielded the plaintiffs a. profit, and that,
therefore, they were not entitled to recover.' This was'reftised,
and the question is, whether the' defendants were entitled to
it, as prayed'
"This instruction presents two propositions: 1. That it was
necessary to prove loss of profits, otherwise than by the loss of
the cargo. 2. That the plaintiff was limited to proof of profits
on a sale at Gibraltar. With regard to the second it is clear

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that the instruction -was properly refused, for there was nothing in the policy to prevent the assured from proceeding with
the original cargo to the Pacific, although the course of trade
would have sanctioned him in selling and replacing it. But
the first proposition is one of more difficulty.
"Courts of justice have got over their difficulties on the question whether profits are an insurable interest, but how and where
that interest must be established by proof, in case of loss, is
not well settled. iHere again there appears to be a conflict
between the British and American decisions.
"The earliest of the British decisions, that of Barclayv. Cousins, 2 East, 544, certainly supports the doctrine that the profits
sink with the cargo, or at least that the loss of one is prima
facie evidence of the loss of the other, and throws the onusl)robandiupon the defendant. Such is the intimation of the court,
and the recovery was had in that case without proof that profit
would have been made had the cargo arrived at the destined
port. In the case of Renrickson v. Margetson, 2 East, 549, of
which a note was given in that case, the recovery was also
had without proofs that the profits would have been 'made, or
any other proof than an interest in and loss of the cargo; and
Lord Mansfield seems' to have suggested the true ground for
dispensing with such proof, to wit, the utter impracticability
of making it, without the spirit of prophecy to determine the
precise time when the vessel would arrive at her destined
port.
"The two subsequent cases which are cited in the elementary books to sustain the contrary' doctrine are not full to the
.point. In that of Hodgson v. Glover, 6 East, 316, there was
another question of as great difficulty, to wit, Whether, in a
clear case of average loss, the plaintiff could recover as for a
total loss, or recover anything without evidence to determine
the average. Of the four judges who sat, two decided against
the plaintiff, upon the one ground, and two upon the other.
"In the second case, that of Eyre v. Glover, 12 East, 218,
although the point was touched upon in argument, yet the
court neither expressly affirm nor deny it; it was not the leading question in the cause; and at last judgment is rendered for

C'ANADA'SUGAR REFINING CO. v. INSURANCE CO.

623

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff without requiring such proof. But the. case of .Mumford v. Hallett, 1 Johns. 439, goes further. Itwas a case of
insurance'on profits, in which there was no evidence given that
profits would have been made upon an arrival, nor was any
other loss proved than as an incident to tho loss of the goods.
On that state of facts, Livingston, Justice, ivho delivers the
opinion of the court, remarks: ' It does not follow that a profit
will be made if the cargo arrived, yet its loss would give a
right to rec6ver on such a policy.' There were other questions
in the case; but, after all were settled, this principle-was essential to the plaintiff's right to recover. In the case of Fosdick
v. 'he Zjo,4Vich Insurance Company, decided in the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut, the question was moved in
argument that to justify a recovery the plaintiff must show
that profits would have accrued upon safe arrival of the goods;
but the language of the court, in expressing their decision, is
not so explicit as to enable us to determine whether it was
intended to apply as well to the proof of loss as to the insurable interest. Yet the right of the plaintiff to recover being
affirmed in that case without other proof than the loss of the
goods, it would seem to be an authority for the doctrine that
no other was necessary.
"The report furnishes no other proof of loss of profits than
what was implied in the loss of the cargo in which the insured
had an interest. And on the question of insurable interest,
which was the main question in the cause, the Chief Justice
asks, 'if profits are anything more than an excrescence upon
the value of goods beyond the prime cost?'I
"As to the American cases, Mr. Phillips quotes that of
Loomis v. S/liaw, (if I understand his language as he meant to
use it,) as going farther than the case warrants. 2 Johns.
Cas. 36. The court waives the question now under consideration by suggesting that the defendant had waived it by an act
of his own.
"In the case of Abbott v. Sebor, 3 Johns. Cas. 39, which
was a motion for a new trial, the decision turned chiefly on
the question whether the court had misdirected the jury in
instructing them that the plaintiff must recover the whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sum insured on profits or nothing - that is, that he could not
recover for an average loss. The question, if proof that profits
would have been made had-the vessel arrived in' safety was
necessary to his recovery, was not touched. Yet the right to
recover is affirmed in that case, and it does not appear that
any proof to that effect had been offered or required beyond
,the loss of the goods on which the profit was expected. But
the authority amounts to no more than an implication.
"We must now dispose of the question upon reason and
principle; and herb it seems difficult to perceive why, if profit
be a mere excrescence of the principal, as some judges have
said, or an incident to or identified with it as others have said,
.the loss of the cargo should not carry with it the loss of the
profits. This rule has convenience and certainty to recommend it, of which this case presents a striking illustration.
Here was a voyage of many thousand miles to be performed;
the final profits of which must have been determined by a
statement of accounts passing through *several changes, some
of which might have resulted in loss, some in gain; and in
each case the good or ill fortune of the adventure turning on
the gain or loss of a day in the voyage. What human calculation or human imagination could have furnished testimony
on a fact so speculative and fortuitous? To have required
testimony to it would have been subjecting the rights of the
plaintiff to mere mockery."
The conclusion thus reached has never been disturbed in
this dourt, and is the prevalent doctrine in the United States.
The American rule and, the reason for it are thus stated in
2 Phillips on Ins. section 1209:
- "Under a policy on the profits of a cargo on a voyage from
Philadelphii to the Mediterranean, and thence to South
America, valued at '20,000, the ship and cargo were destroyed
by fire at Gibraltar. It was held (Patapsco Ins. Co. v.
Coulter', 3 Pet. 222) that the assured was entitled to recover
the whole amount of the valuation against the underwriters,
without proving that there would have been any ultimate
profit on the voyage, if it had been pursued without interruption or disaster. And this is the prevalent doctrine in the

CAIADA SUGAR REFINTING CO. v. INSURANCE CO. :625
Opinion of the Court.

United States.
.
The profit, then, which is the subject
of a policy upon this interest is the excess of the value of"
the subject at the port of destination over its value at the
shipping port. It is only in case of loss that the policy is
of any avail to the assured, and he wishes that it may avail
him in a total as well as partial loss. In the latter- case, the "
loss may be adjusted, under an open policy, on the English
doctrine, by ascertaining how much less the profit is than it
would have been if the goods had arrived sound.
"But in the case of a total loss by the ship never arriving,
it is very difficult to say what the profits would have been
had the ship arrived, since it is not possible to determine when
she would have arrived; and if this difficulty is got over by
assuming some probable time, there must often be a long
delay in hearing from a distant port of destination, and learning the state of markets. The prompt return of, his capital to
the assured in case of loss, which is a very important consideration in insuring, requires a valuation of the profits, in preference to an open policy subject to an adjustment upon the
English doctrine of determining the amount by the state of
the market at the port of destination. The same difficulty
does not arise in case of a loss on goods, which is adjusted on
the invoice value. There does not appear to be any way of
avoiding this difficulty but by a valuation, and this is felt in
practice, since policies on profits are usually valued."
Agreeing, as we do, with the view of-the evidence takenby
the District Court, to wit, that none of the sugar ever came
to the libellant in the ordinary course of the voyage, or through
any delivery to the libellant as consignee by the carrier, but
only through a delivery by the insurer of cargo, after a practical abandonment to the latter, and through a settlement by
the insurer as upon a total loss, in which the sugat -was
received by the libellant upon an equitable basis in part payment, and as the equivalent of the value in cash, as any other
property might have been received, the legal conclusion that
we reach is that the libellant is entitled to recover the amount
of the profits as valued in the policy.
The appellees claim that they took no part in the settlement
VOL. CLxxV-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

between the cargo insurers and the libellant, and the doctrine
of re8 inter alios is invoked.

But they had knowledge of the prior insurance, and were
bound to know that, in case of disaster, there was the right to
abandon. There is evidence that they were informed of what
was going on between the other parties concerned. They do
not impugn, by allegation or evidence, the fairness and good
faith of that transaction, nor do they claim that it was conducted with a view to prejudice them.
They plant. their defence solely on the proposition of fact
that a sound portion of the cargo reached the port of destination in due course, and was there delivered to the libellant as
oconsignee- a proposition of fact, as we have seen, not sustained but refuted by the evidence.
Accordingly, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be
Reversed, with cos0ts, and the decree of the District Court
for the Southern Districtof New York is affirmed.

KEOKUK AND HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 26.

Submitted November 15, 1899. -Decided

January 8, 1900.

The boundary line between the States of Illinois and Iowa is the middle of
the main navigable channel of the Mississippi 'River; but whether in
assessing taxes in Illinois on a bridge running from one State to the
other, in crossing that bridge the dividing line was improperly located,
is a question of fact the finding of which by a state court is not reviewable here.
The same may be said concerning the contention as to whether the bridge
was assessed at more than its value and not at the same proportion of
its value as other property was.
The tax on the capital stock was not a tax on franchises conferred by the
Federal government, but on those conferred by the State, and as such
is not open to objection here.
The tax was not a tax on interstate commerce.

