NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.

809'

Syllabus.

it is enough to say that the State of Ohio applied for it as such,
that the application was denied, that this denial was made in
1852, that the land was never patented to the State, and without such patent no fee ever passed, Xihigan .and and .Lumber Co. v. .ust, 168 U. S. 589, that subsequently the land

department treated it as land subject to its control, as public
land of the United States, had it surveyed, sold and patented.
Whatever claims the State of Ohio may have cannot be liti-

gated in this suit. The legal title passed by the patent to the
appellee's grantors, and that title is certainly good'as against
a stranger with no equities.
We see no error in the decree, and it is

Aflirmed.

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 65. Argued October 25, 1899.-Decided December 4,1899.

Section 7 of Chapter 106 of the Louisiana Statutes of 1890, after declaring
" that it is made the duty of the tax assessors throughout the State to
place upon the assessment list all property subject to taxation," contained the following provision: "This shall apply with equal force to
any person or persons representing in this State business interests that
may claim a domicil elsewhere, the intent and purpose being that no
non-resident, either by himself or through any agent, shall transact business here without paying to the State a corresponding tax with that
exacted of its own citizens; and all bills receivable, obligations or
credits arising from the business done in this State are hereby declared
'assessable within this State, and at the business domicil of said nonresident, his agent or representative." The defendant in error who was
domiciled in the city of New York was the owner of credits which were
evidenced by notes largely secured by mortgages on real estate in New
Orleans; and these notes and mortgages were in the city of New Orleans,
In possession of an agent of the defendant in error, who collected the
interest and principal as it became due and deposited the same in a bank
in New Orleans to her credit. Held, that under the act of 1890, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State, this property in the hands of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
the agent was subject to taxation in New Orleans, and that such taxation
did not infringe any right secured by the Federal Constitution.
Conceding as matter of fact that the assessment in this case was technically
in the wrong name, the error is not one that will justify equitable relief
by injunction.
Under the i~sue presented by the pleadings no question of overvaluation was
before the court.
The rule in such a case is that the Federal courts follow the construction
placed upon the statute by the state courts, and in advance of such construction they should not declare property beyond the scope of the statute and exempt from taxation unless it is clear that such is the fact.
It is well settled that bank bills and municipal bonds are in such a concrete
tangible form that they are subject to taxation where found, irrespective
of the domicil of the owner; are subject to levy and sale on execution,
and to seizure and delivery under replevin; notes and mortgages are of
the same nature.

THIS case came on appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana. It is a
suit brought by the appellee to restrain the collection of taxes
levied upon certain personal property which she claims was
exempt from taxation. The important facts are these: The
plaintiff, as well as the infants whose guardian she is, and for
whose benefit she brings this suit, are residents of the State of
New'York, in which State she has been duly appointed the
guardian of their estates. The infants inherited certain property from their grandfather, a resident of Louisiana, whose
estate was duly settled in the proper court of that State. By
regular proceedings these infants had been adjudged his legal
heirs, and she, as guardian, had been put in possession of their
property thus inherited. The order of the court, in this
respect, was rendered February 14, 1896, and the taxes which
were sought to be restrained.were those for that year. The
assessment, as appears by the assessment roll, was in the
name of "the estate of D. C. McCan; " was of $15,000, "money
in possession, on deposit, or in hand," and of $800,000, "money
loaned on interest, all credits and all bills receivable, for
money loaned or advanced, or for goods sold; and all credits
of any and every description." The principal contentions of
the plaintiff were: First, that included within this personal
property was some $228,000 of bonds of the State of Louisiana,

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEI.
Opinion of the Court.

taxation of which by the State or any of its municipalities was
void, as impairing the obligation of a contract made by the
State.

Second, that the situs of the loans and credits was in

New York, the place of residence of the guardian and wards,
and, therefore, being loans and credits without the State of
Louisiana they were not subject to taxation therein.
Mr. F. C. Zacharie for appellants.
was on his brief.

Mr. J. J.-McLoughlim

.Mr.E. Howard 7fc Caleb for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BREwER, aftbr making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

A preliminary question made by the plaintiff is that she had
applied to have the assessment in the name of the estate of D.
0. McCan stricken off on the ground that the administration
of the estate had been finally closed and the property put
into the possession of the heirs, which application was denied;
that, therefore, the assessment was in the wrong name and
could not be sustained. We are of the opinion, however, that
there was no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court in this
respect, for, conceding that as a matter of fact the assessment
was technically in the wrong name, the error is not one that
will justify the equitable relief by injunction.
The important question is whether the property was subject
to taxation. With regard to the contention that certain bonds
were included in the assessment which were not subject to
taxation on account of the supposed contract of the State of
Louisiana, it is sufficient to say that the assessment does not
purport to include any bonds. The assessment roll is prepared
so as to show in separate columns the different kinds of property included in the assessment. One column is entitled
"bonds of all kinds, specifying each kind and their value,"
and under this heading there is no mention of any property.
So, while it would seem probable from the testimony as to
the amount of personal property belonging to the estate that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the assessor may have in fact included the bonds, yet upon the
face of the record the only assessment is of credits and money.
It may be a case of overvaluation of assessable property, but
under the issue presented by the. pleadings that question was
not before the court.
Under the circumstances disclosed by the testimony, were
the money and credits subject to taxation? It appears that
these credits were evidenced by notes largely secured by
mortgages on real estate in New Orleans; that these notes
and mortgages were in the city of New Orleans, in possession
of an agent of the plaintiff, who collected the interest and
principal as it became due and deposited the same in a bank
in New Orleans to the credit of the plaintiff. The question,
therefore, is distinctly presented whether, because the owners
were domiciled in the State of New York, the moneys so
deposited in a bank within the limits of the State of Louisiana,
and the notes secured by moftgages situated and held as above
described, were free from taxation in the latter State. Of
course, there must be statutory warrant for such taxation,
for if the legislature omits any property from the list of
taxables the courts are not authorized to correct the omission and adjudge the omitted property to be subject to
taxation. We need not extend our inquiries back of the
year 1890, for in that year the legislature passed an act
amending the revenue statutes of prior years, and the questions, therefore, are whether under that statute, as interpreted
by the Supreme Court, these properties were subject to taxation, and, if so subjected, whether any rights secured by the
Federal Constitution were thereby infringed. That act is
Chapter 106 of the Statutes of 1890, (Acts La. 1890, 121).
Section 1 enumerates among the property subject to taxation "all rights, credits, bonds and securities of all kinds,
promissory notes, open accounts and other obligations; all
cash."
Section 7 (p. 121), after declaring "that it is made the duty
of the tax assessors throughout the State to place upon the
assessment list all property subject to taxation," closes with
this provision:

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.
Opinion of the Court.

"And this shall apply with equal force to any person or
persons representing in this State business interests that
may claim a domicil elsewhere, the intent and purpose being
that no non-resident, either by himself or through any agent,
shall transact business here without paying to the State a
corresponding tax with that exacted of its own citizens; and
all bills receivable, obligations or credits arising from the business done in this State are hereby declared assessable within
this State, and at the business domicil of said non-resident, his
agent or representative."
This statute came, before the Supreme Court in Iiverool
&eo. Insurance Co. v. Board of Assessors, 44 La. Ann. 760,
where the question was whether a foreign insurance company
could be taxed for the amount of the premiums due from its
insured living in Louisiana, and it was held that those premiums were simply credits and therefore not taxable, the
court saying (page 765):
"We are dealing exclusively with the question of credits as
assessed, and we hold as decided in 41 La. Ann. 645, 1015, ' that
debts have their situs at the domicil of the creditor,' because
debts are property and have a value, which is inseparable from
the creditor, and because the State has no greater power or jurisdiction to tax debts due to non-resident creditors than it has to
tax any other personal property of such non-residents which is
not situated in the State."
The same proposition was affirmed in the succeeding case,
liailey v. Board of Assessors, 44 La. Ann. 766, the court, however, calling attention to this distinction (page 770):
"There is no doubt of the legislative power to modify the
rule of comity, mobiliajversonamse uuntur, in many respects.
Movables having an actual situs in the State may be taxed there,
though the owner be domiciled elsewhere. Even debts may
assume such concrete form in the evidences thereof that they
may be similarly subjected when such evidences are situated in
the State, as.in the case of bank notes, public securities, and,
possibly, of negotiable promissory notes, bills of exchange or
bonds.
"But as to mere ordinary debts, reduced to no such concrete

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

forms, they are not capable of acquiring any situs distinct from
the domicil of the creditor, and no legislative power exists to
change that situs so far as non-resident creditors are concerned.
As said by the Supreme Court of the United States: ' To call
debts property of the debtors is simply to misuse terms. All the
property there can be in the nature of things, in debts, belongs
to the creditors to whom they are payable, and follows their
domicil wherever that may be. Their debts can have no
-locality separate from the parties to whom they are due!
State Tax on Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300."
In Clason v. New Orleans,46 La. Ann. 1, 5, the court affirmed
the same proposition in respect to a deposit in a bank to the
credit of the non-resident, saying: "We cannot distinguish
between the debt due to the plaintiffs by a bank as arising
from a deposit to the credit of the firm inmoney, and that due
to it from any other cause."
This decision was, however, qualified in Bluefleld Banana
Comyany v. Board of Assessors, 49 La. Ann. 43, the court there
saying that the decision rested upon the special facts of that
case; that there was really no general deposit, but that the local
bank was simply a medium through which the funds of the nonresident kept at the place of his residence were drawn against
for the purpose of making payments in Louisana, and in this
latter case it was held that, where a non-resident had an agent
in New Orleans who disposed of the property of his principal
as it was forwarded in the course of business and deposited the
proceeds thereof in bank to the credit of his principal, the sum
'thus deposited was subject to taxation. This is the language
of the court after its reference to the Clason case (szura,
page 48):
"The case is different here. The foreign corporation had an
agent here, where it received and where it sold fruit and received
the price for the same. Part of the proceeds were withheld in
the hands of the agents for purposes incidental to the prosecution of its business; and part deposited to the credit of the company, subject to the check of its local agent. Also for the
prosecution of its business here, and for such other purposes as
the company might direct it to be applied to. The company

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.
Opinion of the Court.

transacted business in New Orleans precisely as did resident
business men and firms. It received all the advantages to be
derived from the state and city governments which residents
received, and we see no reason why it should not be taxed, as
claimed in this proceeding, unless there be insuperable legal
objections in the way. We find a statute of the State, which
by its terms brings them under the operation of state and
city taxation, and we are bound to give effect to its provisions
unless they be in derogation of the Constitution. The unconstitutionality of the act is not pleaded, and we, of ourselves, see
no unconstitutional features in it. The rule mobilia sequuntur
personam is a fiction of the law, not resting of itself upon any
constitutional foundation, and which gives way before express
laws, destroying it in any given case where constitutional
requirements themselves do not stand in the way."
This was reaffirmed in Parker,Tax Collector, v. Strauss &
Co., 49 La. Ann. 1173, in which the court says (page 1175):
"The revenue act, in entire accordance with the conceded
extent of the taxing power, taxes the movable property of a
foreigner. We cannot hold that cash thus liable to taxation
is exempted, because for convenience it is deposited in bank
and checked on by the owner. It would be a strain to apply
to the deposited cash the exemption from taxation accorded
to debts in their ordinary significance, due to the foreign cr'editor."
The last case to which our attention has been called is that'
of Liverpool c c. Irnsurance Company v. Board of Assessors,
25 S. Rep. 970. In that case the court
51 La. Ann. p.-;
reaffirmed its prior rulings that "a debt due to a non-resident
(still in non-concrete form) has its situs at the domicil of the
creditor, and not at the domicil of the debtor," and therefore
is not subject to taxation by the State which is the latter's
domicil. At the same time it observed, in its discussion of the
question, that the law requiring debts to be assessed for taxation "was ifitended for all such debts as are evidenced by note
or by mortgage, or that are in such other concrete form as to
render it possible to subject them to taxation under the present laws. No attempt has been made since the cited decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

were rendered to localize 'debts' or 'open accounts' such as
those upon which the taxes are now claimed."
From this review of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State it is obvious that moneys, such as those referred to,
collected as interest and principal of notes, mortgages and
other securities kept within the State and deposited in one
of the banks of the State for use or reinvestment, are taxable
They are property arising from busiunder the act of 1890.
ness done in the State; they were tangible property when
received by the agent of the plaintiffs, and as such subject
to taxation, and their taxability was not, as the court holds,
lost by their mere deposit in a bank. It is true that when
deposited the moneys became the property of the bank, and
for most purposes the relation of debtor and creditor arose
between the bank and the depositor; yet as evidently the
moneys were to be kept in the State for reinvestment or
other use they remained still subject to taxation, according
to the decision in 49 La. Ann. 43. With regard to the notes
and mortgages, it may be conceded that there is no express
decision of the Supreme Court to the effect that they were
taxable under the law of 1890, yet the reasoning of that court
in several cases and its declarations, although perhaps only
dicta, show that clearly in its judgment they had a local situs
within the State, and were by the statute of 1890 subject to
taxation.
When the question is whether property is exempt from taxation, and that exemption depends alone on a true construction
of a statute of the State, the Federal courts should be slow to
declare an exemption in advance of any decision by the courts
of the State. The rule in such a case is that the Federal courts
follow the construction placed upon the statute by the state
courts, and in advance of such construction they should not
declare property beyond the scope of the statute and exempt
from taxation unless it is clear that such is the fact. In other
words, they should not release any property within the State
from its liability to state taxation unless it is obvious that the
statutes of the State warrant such exemption, or unless themandates of the Federal Constitution compel it.

NEW ORLEANTS v. STEMPEL.
Opinion of the Court.

If we look to the decisions of other States we find the frequent ruling that when an indebtedness has taken a concrete
form and become evidenced by note, bill, mortgage or other
written instrument, and that written instrument evidencing
the indebtedness is left within the State in the hands of an
agent of the non-resident owner, to be by him used for the
purposes of collection and deposit or reinvestment within the
State, its taxable situs is in the State. See Catlin v. Hall,
21 Vermont, 152, in which the rule was thus announced (pages
159, 161):
"It is undoubtedly true that, by the generally acknowledged
principles of public law, personal chattels follow the person of
the owner, and that, upon hit death, they are to be distributed
according to the law of his domicil; and in general, any conveyance of chattels, good by the law of his own domicil, will'
be good elsewhere. But this rule is merely a legal fiction,
adopted from considerations of general convenience and policy, for the benefit of commerce. and to enable persons to dispose of their property, at their decease, agreeably to their
wishes, without being embarrassed by their want of knowledge in relation to the laws of the country, where the same
is situated. But even this doctrine is to be received and
understood with this limitation, that there is no positive law
of the country, where the property is in fact, which contravenes the law of his domicil; for if there is, the law of the
owner's domicil must yield to the law of the State, where
the property is in fact situate."
"We are not only satisfied that this method of taxation is
well founded in principle and upon authority, but we think it
entirely just and equitable that, if persons residing abroad bring
their property and invest it in this State, for the purpose of deriving profit from its use and employment here, and thus avail
themselves of the benefits and advantages of our laws for the
protection of their property, their property should yield its due
proportion towards the support of the government, which thus
protects it."
In Goldgart v. People, 106 Illinois, 25, 28, the court said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"If the owner is absent, but the credits are in fact here, in
the hands of an agent, for renewal or collection, with the view
of reloaning the money by the agent as a permanent business,
they have a situs here for the purpose of taxation, and there is
jurisdiction over the thing."
In Wilcox v. Ellis, 14 Kansas, 588, the power of the State to
tax a citizen and resident of Kansas, on money due him in Illinois, evidenced by a note, which was left in Illinois for collection, was denied, the court saying, (603) after referring to the
maxim, mobilio sequunturpersonam:
"This maxim is at most only a legal fiction; and Blackstone,
speaking of legal fictions, says, 'this maxim is invariably
observed, that no fiction shall extend to work an injury, its
proper operation being to prevent a mischief, or remedy an
inconvenience that might result from the general rule of law.'
3 Blackstone Com. 43. Now as the State of Illinois and not
Kansas must furnish the plaintiff with all the remedies that he
may have for the enforcement of all his rights connected with
said notes, debts, etc., it would seem more just, if said debt is
to be taxed at all, that the State of Illinois and not Kansas
should tax it, and that we should not resort to legal fictions to
give the State of Kansas the right to tax it."
The same doctrine was affirmed in Fisher v. Commissioners
of .RusA County, 19 Kansas, 414, and again in Blain v. .Irby,25
Kansas, 499, 501, in which the court said, referring to promissory notes: "They have such an independent situs that they
may be taxed where they are situated."
The decisions of the highest courts of 1ew York, in.which
State these plaintiffs reside, are to the same effect. In People
v. Trustees, 48 N. Y. 390, 397, the court said:
"That the furniture in the mansion and the money in the
bank were, under these provisions, properly assessable to the
relators is not seriously disputed. And I am unable to see why
the money due upon the land contracts must not be assessed in
the same way. The debts due upon these contracts are personal
estate, the same as if they were due upon notes or bonds; and
such personal estate may be said to exist where the obligations
for payment are held. Notes, bonds and other contracts for the

NEW ORLEA.NS v. .STEMPEL.
Opinion of the Court.

payment of money have always been regarded and treated in
the law as personal property. They represent the debts secured
by them. They are the subject of larceny, and a transfer of
them transfers the debt. If this kind of property does not exist
where the obligation is held, where does it exist? It certainly
does not exist where the debtor may be and follow his person.
And while, for some purposes in the law, by legal fiction, it follows the person of the creditor and exists where he may be, yet
it has been settled that, for the purpose of taxation, this legal
fiction does not, to the full extent, apply, and that such property belonging to a non-resident creditor may be taxed in the
place where the obligations are held by his agent. Hoyt v.
Commissionersof Taxes, 23 N. Y. 238; The Peoplev. Gardner,
51 Barb. 352; Catlin v. tRull, 21 Vermont, 152."
This proposition was reaffirmed in People ex rel. v. Smith, 88
N. Y. 576, in which the Court of Appeals of that State held
that a resident of New York was not liable to taxation on moneys loaned in the States of Wisconsin and Minnesota on notes
and mortgages, which notes and mortgages were held in those
States for collection of principal and interest and reinvestment
of the funds, it appearing that property so situated within the
limits of those States was there subject to taxation. See also
.Aissouri v. St Zouis County Court,47 Missouri, 594, 600; People v. Rome insurance Company, 28 California, 533; Billinghurst v. Spink County, 5 S. Dak. 84, 98 ; In re Jeferson, 35
Minn. 215; Poppleton v. Yamhill County, 18 Oregon, 377;
Redmond v. Commissioners, 87 N. 0. 122; Finch v. York
County, 19 Nebraska, 50.
With reference to the decisions of this court it may be said
that there has never been any denial of the power of a State to
tax securities situated as these are, while there have been frequent recognitions of its power to separate for purposes of taxation the situs of personal property from the domicil of the
owner. In State. Tax on Foreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall. -300, it
was held that while the taxing power of the State may extend
to property within its territorial limits, it cannot to that which
is outside those limits, and therefore that bonds issued by a railroad company, although secured by a mortgage on property

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

within the State, were not subject to taxation while in the possession of their owners who were non-residents, the court saying: "We are clear that the tax cannot be sustained; that the
bonds, being held by non-residents of the State, are only property in their hands, and that they are thus beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing power of the State." But in the same case,
on page 323, the court declared: "It is undoubtedly true that
the actual situs of personal property which has a visible and
tangible existence, and not the domicil of its owner, will, in
many cases, determine the State in which it may be taxed.
The same thing is true of public securities consisting of state
bonds and bonds of municipal bodies, and circulating notes
of banking institutions; the former, by general usage, have
acquired the character of, and are treated as, property in the
place where they are found, though removed from the domicil
of the owner; the latter are treated and pass as money wherever they are. But other personal property, consisting of bonds,
mortgages and debts generally, has no situs independent of the
domicil of the owner, and certainly can have none where the
instruments, as in the present case, constituting the evidences
of debt, are not separated from the possession of the owners."
This last sentence, properly construed, is not to be taken as
a denial of the power of the legislature to establish an independent situs for bonds and mortgages when those properties
are not in the possession of the owner, but simply that the
fiction of law, so often referred to, declares their situs to be
that of the domicil of the owner, a declaration which the legislature has no power to disturb when in fact they are in his
possession. It was held in that case that a statute requiring
the railroad company, the obligor in such bonds, to pay the
state tax, and authorizing it to deduct the amount of such
taxation from the interest due by the terms of the bond, was
as to non-residents a law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The same proposition was affirmed in Murray v. Charleston,
96 U. S.432,, where the city of Charleston attempted to tax
its obligations held by non-residents of the State. In Tappan
v. Merchants' NYational Bank, 19 Wall. 490, the ruling was
that although shares of stock in national banks were in a cer-

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.
Opinion of the Court.

tain sense intangible and incorporeal personal property, the
law might separate them from the persons of their owners
for purposes of taxation, and give them a situs of their own.
See also Pullmans Car Com.pany v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S.
18, 22, where the question of the separation of personal property from the person of the owner for purposes of taxation
was discussed at length. As also the case of Savings Society'
v. -lultnomah County, 169 U. S. 421, 427, in which a statute
of Oregon taxing the interest of a mortgagee in real estate was
adjudged valid, although the owner of the mortgage was a nonresident. Nor is there anything in the case of Zirtland v.
HotchkiWs, 100 U. S. 491, conflicting with these decisions. It
was there held that a State might tax one of its citizens on
bonds belonging to him, although such bonds were secured by
mortgage on real estate situated in another State. It was
assumed that the situs of such intangible property as a debt
evidenced by bond was at the domicil of the owner. There
was no legislation attempting to set aside that ordinary rule
in respect to the matter of situs. On the contrary, the legislature of the State of Connecticut, from which the case came,
plainly reaffirmed the rule, and the court in its opinion summed
up the case in these words (p. 499): "Whether the State of
Connecticut shall measure the contribution which persons resident within its jurisdiction shall make by way of taxes, in
return for the protection it affords them, by the value of the
credits, choses in action, bonds or stocks which they may own
(other than such as are exempted or protected from taxation
under the Constitution and laws of the United States) is a
matter which concerns only the people of that State, with
which the Federal Government cannot rightfully interfere."
This matter of situs maybe regarded in another aspect. In
the absence of statute, bills and notes are treated as choses
in action and are not subject to levy and sale on execution,
but by the statutes of many States they are made so subject
to seizure and sale, as any tangible'personal property. 1 Freeman on Executions, sec. 112; 4 Am. & Eng. E. of L. 2d ed.
282; 11 Am. & Eng. E. of L. 2d ed. 623. Among the States
referred to in these authorities as having statutes warranting
VOL. Lxxy-21

OCTOBER TERMT,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

such levy and sale are California, Indiana, Kentucky, New
York, Tennessee, Iowa and Louisiana. Brown v. Anderson,
4 Martin, [iN. S.] 416, affirmed the rightfulness of such a levy
and sale. In F&er v. Bullard, 2 La. Ann. 398, it was held
that if a note was not taken into the actual possession of the
sheriff a sale by him on an execution conveyed no title on the
purchaser, the court saying: "In the case of Sim son v. Allain
it was held that, in order to make a valid seizure of tangible
property, it is necessary that the sheriff should take the property levied upon into actual possession. 7 Rob. 504. In the
case of Gobeau v. The New Orleans & Nashville Railroad
Company, the same doctrine is still more distinctly announced.
The court there says: 'From all the different provisions of
our laws above referred to, can it be controverted that, in
order to have them carried into effect, the sheriff must necessarily take the property seized into his possession? This is
the essence of the seizure. It cannot exist without such possession.' 6 Rob. 348. It is clear, under these authorities, that
the sheriff effected no seizure of the note in controversy, and
consequently his subsequent adjudication of it conferred no
title on Bailey."
The same doctrine was reaffirmed in Stockton v. Stanbrough,
3 La. Ann. 390. Now if property can have such a situs within
the State as to be subject to seizure and sale on execution, it
would seem to follow that the State has power to establish a
like situs within the State for purposes of taxation.
It has also been held that a note may be made the .subject
of seizure and delivery in a replevin suit. Graf v. AShannon,
7 Iowa, 508; Simith v. Eals, 81 Iowa, 235; Pritchardv. l'orwood, 155 Mass. 539.
It is well settled that bank bills and municipal bonds are in
such a concrete tangible form that they are subject to taxation
where found, irrespective of the domicil of the owner; are subject to levy and sale on execution, and to seizure and delivery
under replevin; and yet they are but promises to pay - evidences of existing indebtedness. Notes and morgtages are of
the same nature;' and while they may not have bec6me so
generally recognized as tangible personal property, yet they

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. 6. CONROY.

323

Syllabus.

have such a concrete form that we see no reason why a State
may not declare that if found within its limits they shall be
subject to taxation.
It follows from these considerations that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversedand the case
remandedfor further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD COMPANTY v.
CONIROY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
FIRST CIRCUIT.

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

'o.42. Argued April 8, 4, 1899. -Decided December 4, 1S99.
The negligence of a conductor of a freight train is the negligence of a fellow
servant of a brakeman on the same train, who was killed by an accident
occurring through that negligence.
The negligence of such conductor is not the negligence of the vice or substituted principal or representative of the railroad company running the
tfain, and for which that corporation is responsible.
The general rule of law is that one who enters the service of another takes
upon himself the ordinary risks of the negligent acts of his fellow servants in the course of the employment.
An employer is not liable for an injury to one employ6 occasioned by the
negligence of another engaged in the same general undertaking; it is not
necessary that the servants should be engaged in the same operation or
particular work; it is enough, to bring the case within the general
rule of exemption, if they are in the employment of the same master,
engaged in the same common enterprise, both employed to perform
duties tending to accomplish the same general purposes, or, in other
words, if the services of each in his particular sphere or department
are directed to the accomplishment of the same general end; and accordingly, in the present case, upon the facts stated, the conductor and the
injured brakeman are to be considered fellow servants within the rule.
While the opinion in Chicago, Milwaukee & St. PaulBailroad Co. v. Boss, 112
U. S. 377, contains a lucid exposition of many of the established rules
regulating the relations between masters and servants, and particularly

