UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

States, ante, 248. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether
since the country was in the possession of the United States
forces, and a treaty had already been signed, which was
shortly thereafter ratified, for the cession of the entire Territory, any Mexican official could by new grants diminish the
amount of land which was to become the property of this
Government. And of course if goes without saying that no
such officials had authority under the Constitution and laws
of the United States to grant public lands. This whole proceeding may rightfully be ignored except so far as it indicates
those who took title under the original grant, oi discloses
those who were their successors in interest. Further than
this it has no significance.
The decree of the Court of Private Land- Claims will be
reversed, and the case remanded with instructionsto enter
a decree in favor of the originalgrantees or their successors
in interest for the lands grantedin severalty. It may be
necessary to take further testimony for identifying such
.parties,and the trial court is at liberty to take such testimony.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
SAME v. S AME.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Mos.89, 89. Argued October 16, 17, 199. -Decided December 18, 1$99.
Upon a long and uninterrupted possession of lands in Mexico, beginning
long prior to the transfer of the territory in which they are situated
to the United States, and continuing after that transfer, the law bases
presumptions as sufficient for legal judgment, in favor of the possessor,
in the absence of rebutting circumstances, which do not exist in this
case.

To the land involved in these cases the appellees claimed
a complete and perfect title, and petitioned the Court of
Private Land Claims under section 8 of the act establishing

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the court to so adjudge and confirm it. After due hearing
the court did so adjudge, and entered a decree confirming the
title to petitioners, from which decree the United States prosecuted this appeal.
The basis of the title to the southern portion of the tract
(No. 38) is a grant made on the 5th day of Novenber, 1,716,
to captain Antonio Gutierrez by captain Felix Martinez, the
then governor and captain general of New Mexico. The
appellees claim to derive from Gutierrez by conveyances and
legal succession, and also claim a continuous possession in
him, their predecessors in interest, and themselves from the
date of the grant to the present time.
The course and the conveyance of the title is exhibited by
an abstract filed by the claimants in the lower court. It is
as follows:
"Abstract of title.
"The claimant is unable to present any direct conveyance
from the original grantee or from his heirs with which he is
in any way connected. He relies upon the papers contained
in archive No. 178 in the office of the surveyor general for
New Mexico, to show that the original grantee, Antonio
Gutierrez, took possession of the said tract of land and afterwards transferred the same to Diego Padilla, and that said
Diego Padilla conveyed said land to Diego Borrego, who in
turn conveyed the same to Nicolas de Chavez, these conveyances being made in the years 1734 and 1736. Claimant files
herewith copies and translations in triplicate of said archive
No. 178.
"Clairhant avers that it appears from archive No. 371, in
the office of the surveyor general for New Mexico, that at
some time prior to the year 1785 the tract claimed had become
the property of Clemente Gutierrez, the said archive No. 371
is a record of proceedings as to the estate of the said Clemente
Gutierrez, and claimant files herewith copies and translations
in triplicate of so much thereof as shows the inventory of all
the real estate belonging to said Clemente Gutierrez and the
hijuela given to each of the heirs showing their respective
shares of said real estate.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

"Claimant relies upon the following described deeds to
connect him with the title of said Clemente Gutierrez and
through him with the original title to the grant:
"Deed of Jose Lorenzo de la Pena, for himself and his sister
Mariana and his brother Jose Rafael de la Pena, to Francisco
Xavier Chavez, dated September 20, 1818, for an undivided
fifth of the Bosque de los Pinos, bounded on the north by the
lands the pueblo of Isleta, on the south by the lands known
as those of Los Lentes, on the east by the bills, and on the
west by the Rio del Norte, a translation of which deed, made
in the year 1855 by the official translator of the office of the
surveyor general for New Mexico, is now on file in this court
in case No. 64, and triplicate copies thereof are filed herewith.
"Deed from Francisco Sarracino, representing his mother,
Maria Luisa Gutierrez, one of the children of Clemente
Gutierrez, to Francisco Xavier Chavez, for an undivided
interest in the ranch of Bosque de los Pinos, bounded on the
north by the league of the pueblo of Isleta, on the south by.
residents of Valencia, on the east the plain, on the west the
Rio del Norte, dated October 19, 1821, a translation of which
deed, made in the year 1855 by the official translator of the
office of the surveyor general for New Mexico, is now on file
in this court in case No. 64, and triplicate copies thereof are
filed herewith.
"A deed from Juan Nepomuceno Gutierrez and Apolonia
Gutierrez to validate the sale made by their father, Lorenzo
Gutierrez, of the portion to which he and Lorenzo Gutierrez
were entitled in the Bosque de los Pinos, dated December 27,
1839, a translation of which deed, made by the official translator of the office of the surveyor general of New Mexico in
the year 1855, is now on file in this court in case No. 64, and
triplicate copies thereof are filed herewith.
"Claimant avers that the originals of the three deeds above
described were filed in the office of the surveyor general in
1855, and that they appear to have been withdrawn from that
, 187 ,
day of
office by J. Bonifacio Chavez on the
and cannot now be found, although the official translations
made at that time have been preserved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"The said Francisco Xavibr Chavez, to whom the said deeds
were made, was the grandfather of this claimant, and claimant
has inherited from his said grandfather an interest in the
property conveyed by said deeds."
A fuller statement of the documentary evidence may be
omitted except of the original grant. It was produced from
the Spanish archives, and its translation is as follows:
"Plaintiff's Exhibit A. Archive 315.
[Translation.]
i716
(1.)
No.449.
To the Governor and Captain General:
"I, Captain Antonio Gutierrez, a resident of the town of
Albuquerque and a native of this Kingdom, appear before you
in due legal form, and I state that, being very much in need
of lands on which to plant in order to support my family, and
also to the end that my sheep may have room to scatter out,
and there being an uncultivated and unoccupied tract of lands
below Isleta, apparently at a distance of two leagues, which
formerly was held by Cristobal db Tapia, of which tract will
you be pleased to make me a grant in the name of His
Majesty in the same manner as it was held by said Cristobal
de Tapia, and, if you be pleased to grant it to me, will you
also order that the real possession be given me, designating to
me boundaries and landmarks, in order that no prejudice may
result to me in its possession?
"Wherefore I ask and pray, with due humility, that you
will be pleased to make me the grant that I ask for in the
name of His Majesty, as one who represents his royal person,
and I swear in the name of God our Lord, and by the sign of.
the Holy Cross, that this my petition is not in bad faith, and
whatsoever is necessary, etc.
ANToio Gunia z. [SCROLL.]
"NOTE. - I ask and pray that the boundaries belonging to
said tract be designated to me - on the north an arroyo with
some cottonwood trees that comes down from the hills, on the
south the pueblo of San Clemente, on the east the Del Norte

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

River, and on the west the hills of the Puerco River; and I
swear in due legal form that my petition is not in bad .faith,
and whatever is necessary.

A iro~xo GUTIEREz.

[scitOLL.]

Presentation.
"At the town of Santa F6 on the fifth day of the month
.of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and
sixteen, before me, Captain Felix Martinez, Governor and
Captain General of this Kingdom and provinces of New
Mexico and castellan of its forces and garrisons for His
4ajesty, it was presented by the party therein named.
Decree and Grant.
"And it having been examined byme, I treated as properly
presented in accordance with law, and, in view of the fact
that it is His Majesty's will that his lands should be settled
and fortified, in his royal name I make to the petitioner the
grant that he asks for, as he describes it, and as Oristobal de
Tapia formerly enjoyed it, without prejudice to a third party
who may have a better right, and I command Captain Baltazar Romero that as soon as he be notified with this my decree
he shall place the petitioner in real possession; and this shall
serve him as a sufficient formal title for his protection, and
when these proceedings shall have been had he will transmit
this grant and possession to my civil and military secretary in
order to make him a certified copy thereof, and that this original petition remain in the said archives; and in witness
thereof I sign it with my civil and military secretary..
FEL x"MAH r
z. [scRoL.]
Befor me,
MIGUEL TENoRIo E AL-BA, [sConLL.]
Civil and .Military Secretary."
Archive No. 178 consisted of three instruments. Two of
them were respectively entitled an "instrument of donation,"
and of "real sale," and were respectively executed on the
7th and 11th of January, 173f, one Don Diego Borrego being
grantee in both. The third was a conveyance from Borrego
VOL. cLxxV-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

to Don Nicolas Chavez. It is only necessary to quote portions
of the first two instruments. From the first as follows:
"In this villa of San Felipe de Albuquerque, on the seventh
day of January of the year one thousand seven hundred and
thirty-four, before me, Captain Juan Gonzalez Bas, alcalde,
mayor and war captain of the said town and its jurisdiction,
personally appeared Diego Padilla, whom I certify I know,
who, in the presence of two witnesses, said that he gave and
did give freely to Don Diego Borrego, to wit, a piece of land
which, as will hereinafter more fully appear, he had and possesses by donation, which, in favor of the said Padilla, was
made by Captain Antonio Gutierrez, and its boundaries are:
On the north, lands of Joaquin Sedillo; on the east, the Rio
Grande; on the south, land of the said Diego Padilla, there
serving as a landmark on the said boundary, the midway line
between the two houses which the said Padilla built near the
boundary line of ihe said donation, and on the west with the
boundary line called for in the title papers of the whole tract
which the said Padilla has; and as I say of the said lands, be
makes gift and donation and conveys his own right, domicil
and seign'ory, the said Diego Padilla, with the consent of his
wife and children, to the said Don Diego Borrego, without
any consideration other than his own will.
"
From the second the following recital, "personally appeared
before me [the same officer as in the other instrument]
Antonio Sedillo, the legitimate son of Joaquin Sedillo, and
forced heir of the aforesaid.'
And further, that "he gave and
did give in real sale a tract of land down the river and below the
pueblo of Isleta. . . . And as I say, the said Antonio
Sedillo gives and did give in real sale the said tract, after consultation and with the consent of his mother and brothers and
sisters, who gave him authority for the same, because the said
Joaquin died in debt, and in order to procure the amount which
he owed; and the said Antonio Sedillo acknowledges that the
said tract was acquired by his said father in part by grant in
the name of His Majesty and in part acquired anl held underreal sale, as shown by five instruments which he delivered;
and the boundaries of the said tract are: On the north, the

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

line of 3he league of the Isleta pueblo; on the east the Rio
isome the CuGrande; on the south the twin alamo, called by
lebra, and on the west the ridge of the Puerco River; and he
says that the said tract he gives to Don Diego Borrego for the
price and sum of two hundred dollars.

.

.

It will be observed that there are only direct conveyances
from the original grantee, Antonio Gutierrez, to Don Diego
Borrego, who received the title in 1734. Borrego conveyed to
Chavez in 1736. From the latter no transfer is shown to any
one, but that the title passed from him in some way to
Clemente Gutierrez prior to 1785 is claimed to be established
by what is called the "proceedings and inventory, division
and partition, of the property which he left at his death
among his wife and five children, concluded in the year 1785.
(Archive No. 371.)"
The description in the inventory is as follows:
"Idem. A ranch below the boundary of the pueblo Isleta,
commonly called San Clemente, Barrancas, and Los Pinos, of
which they have possession, although there is no title deed of
its boundaries, estimated at $1200."
The claimants trace title directly to the widow and children
of Clemente Gutierrez.
The pueblo of Isleta presented a petition in the court below
in which it adopted the allegations of the original petition
and joined in the prayer for the confirmation of the validity
of the title to the heirs and legal representatives of Antonio
Gutierrez.
At the close of the testimony counsel for claimant stated,
counsel for the government not objecting, that "it is admitted
by the United States to be a fact that the pueblo of Isleta has
had open and notorious possession and use of lands on the
west side of the Rio Grande along between the boundary of
the pueblo and the lands of the Los Lentes as far back as the
memory of the oldest man liing within the pueblo can extend,
and that such possession and use have been claimed to be
under a purchase from the heirs of Clemente Gutierrez, of
which some documentary evidence has been presented in the
paper executed by Lorenzo Gutierrez, dated May 3, 1808, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

that said paper, which is marked IPlaintiff's Exhibit G,' and
also Plaintiff's Exhibits H and I, come from the, custody and
control of the officers of said pueblo, who have had them as
far back as memory can extend."
Exhibit G, referred-to,-is as follows:
"[Translation.]
"Don Lorenzo Gutierrez, captain of militia, commandant in
the field, alcade of second election of the town of Albuquerque,
its jurisdiction and frontier, etc., etc.
"Whereas the principal men of the pueblo of San Agustin
de la Isleta have come before me asking for a deed of conveyance for the lands which, from the boundary of the said pueblo
to that of Los Lentes, from south to north, were sold to the
said pueblo by my predecessor, Don IMariano de la Pena, from
the estate of my mother, Donna Josefa Polonia Baca, of which
I am the administrator, of which sale the documentary evidence is in the possession of the alcalde of first election of this
said jurisdiction, Don Manuel de Artega, from whom, he
being seriously ill, it cannot be obtained until he gets better
or dies, and it being probable that it is deposited in the
archives under his charge, in order to avoid the repeated petitions of the said men, and knowing that the purchase was
really made, I give them the present, which I sign for their
security, signing it in order that it may so duly appear, with
two assisting witnesses, in this place of Parjarito, on the third
day of the month of May of the yeat one thousand eight hundred and eight.

Lo~ienzo GUTIERRZ.

[RU~aIo.]

"Assisting witness: AuGusTiN DE LA PERA. [RUm ic.]
"Assisting witness: M _TL. IRM-w. [-RuBRI.]"
The appellees also presented to the Court of Private Land
Claims a petition for the confirmation of grant alleged to have
been made "by the proper authorities of the Government of
Spain to one Joaquin Sedillo, which land lies immediately
south of the lands of the Indian pueblo of Isleta, and was
bounded on the north by the line of the league of said pueblo,

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

on the east by the Rio Grande, on the south by a twin alamo,
called by some the alamo de ]a Culebra, and on the west by
the cefa of the Rio Puerco." This is the northern portion of
the tract contained in the decree of confirmation.
It was further alleged "that the original grant papers evidencing the said grant have been lost or destroyed, and cannot now be produced. The fact of the existence of said grant
'is, however, shown by papers which constitute a portion of
the archive 178 in the office of the surveyor general for New
Mexico, copies and translations whereof are filed herewith in
dhplicate."
The matter of the petition constitutes case No. 39 on the
docket of this court, which, though separately appealed has
been submitted with case No. 38. The lands in each being
contiguous-the north boundary in one being the south boundary of the other, and having common claimants and possession, and the title in each being supported in part by the
same evidence-the Court of Private Land Claims consolidated them and included their confirmation in the same
decree.
The petition alleged on information and belief, as to the'
southern boundary, as the petition in 38 alleged as to the
northern boundary of the land therein described, that it "has
been completely destroyed and its location dannot now be
identified with certainty, and it is probable that no tradition
of its location now exists, for the reason that the said tract
of land and the one immediately south thereof had become'
united in ownership in the hands of one person as early as
1731,as will fully appear by reference to the said archive 178,
hereinbefore mentioned."
The archives referred to and the documentary evidence are
the same as in No. 38, except there is no grant.
The oral evidence of possession was given by the claimant,
Francisco Chavez. He testified that he became personally
acquainted with the tract of land Commonly known as Bosque
de los Pinos, in Valencia County, New Mexico, (the tract confirmed to him,) about 1839, and it was then in the possession
of a relation of his grandmother. And from the records he

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

knew his grandfather died in 1829, and from what he had
been told by the family, his grandfather, before the latter's
death, "possessed it, farmed it, and kept cattle and sheep
upon it." He further testified that since he has known it his
father' had possession, then his mother, and after her death
the heirs, and the possession had never "in any way been disturbed or encroached upon by other people." The boundaries
of the Bosque de los Pinos he gave as follows: "On the north,
by the Isleta Indian pueblo lands; on the east, by the old
river bed; a stone marks the northeast boundary, and on the
south by the town of Peralta; on the west, by the present
river."
The river referred to is the Rio Grande del Norte, which at
the time of the original grants was their eastern boundary,
but which some time subsequently to their date changed its
channel. The land between the old and new channels is
denominated in the evidence and in'the decree of the court as
"Bosque de los Pinos;" and was confirmed to Francisco
Chavez. All the rest of the tract was confirmed to the pueblo
of Isleta.
The sketch on page 519, which was introduced in connection
with the testimony of Chavez, shows the relation of the
grants, the location of some of the natural objects referred to,
and the change in the river bed.
-Mr. William H. Pope for appellants. .Mr. Solicitor General and -r. fatthew G. Reynolds were on his brief.
-Mr. Frank F. Clancy for appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE, -MKENA, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The title asserted by appellees is deficient in the support of
direct evidence. Is the deficiehcy supplied by the probative
force of the possession of the land? Private ownership of the
property with possessidn is claimed for over one hundred and
thirty years before the cession of the territory to the United

tNITED) STATES v. CHIAVEZ.

-t440

CF.
Pi?

0
.9

10o

519

OCTOBER TER1M, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

States. A continuous possession is shown from some time
prior to 1785, inferentially from 1716. :Mexico respected that
ownership and possession for the full period of its dominion
over New Mexico. Spain respected them for over one hundred years, and at the time of the cession of the sovereignty
over the territory to the United States no one questioned
them. Succeeding to the power and obligations of those Governments, must the United States do so? This is insisted by
their counsel, and yet they have felt and expressed the equities which arise from the circumstances of the case. Whence
arise those equities? That which establishes them may establish title. Upon a long and uninterrupted possession, the law
bases presumptions as sufficient for legal judgment, in the
absence of rebutting circumstances, as formal instruments, or
records, or articulate testimony. Not that formal instruments
or records are unnecessary, but it will be presumed that they
once existed and have been lost. The inquiry then recurs, do
such presumptions arise in this case and do they solve its
questions?
Fletcher v. Fuller, 120 U. S. 531, was an action of ejectment. Both parties claimed the land in controversy under
one Francis Richard~on, who died in 1750; the plaintiffs
under his daughter, Abigail Fuller; the defendants under his
grandson. The question arose whether a deed could be presumed to have been executed by Abigail Fuller to the grandson or to his father, uniting all interests in him. It was
presented in instructions. The defendants asked an instruction that the jury might presume the execution of such a deed
to their ancestor in title. The court refused, and instructed
the jury as follows: "Of course, gentlemen, if you find that
you can presume a grant, if you find from the testimony that
there was a lost deed which passed from Abigail Fuller to
Jeremiah Richardson, or to Francis Richardson, and the
property was inherited by Jeremiah, so that Jeremiah had a
good title to convey to Stephen Jencks, that makes the title
of the defendants here complete . . . But, gentlemen,
you are to look into the evidence upon this question of a grant,
and if the evidence in favor of the presumption is overcome

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

by the evidence against such grant, then, of course, you will
notpresume one. It is a question of testimony."
The defendants requested the court to instruct the jury
"that the presumption they were authorized to make of a lost
deed was not necessarily restricted to what may fairly be supposed to have occurred, but rather to what may have occurred,
and seems requisite to quiet title in the possessor." The instruction was refused, and on error to this court it said, throug
Mr. Justice Field, that the purport of the charge was in effect
"that in order to presume a lost deed the jury must be satisfied' that such a deed had in fact actually existed;
therein was error.
"In such cases 'presumptions,' as said by Sir William
Grant, 'do not always proceed on a belief that the thing
presumed has actually taken place. Grants are frequently
presumed, as Lord Mansfield says, -Eldridgev. IYnott, Cowp.
215, merely for the purpose and from a principle of quieting
possession. There is as much occasion" for presuming conveyances of legal estates, as otherwise titles must forever remain
imperfect and in many respects unavailable, when from length
of time it has become impossible to discover in whom the
legal estate (if outstanding) is actually vested.' llilla .y v.
W'aller, 12 V'es. 239, 252."
And quoting Mr. Justice Story in Ricard v. Williams, 7
Wheat. 59, 119, "'a grant of land may as well be presumed
as a grant of a fishery, or of common, or of a way. Presumptions of this nature are adopted from the general infirmity
of human nature, the difficulty of preserving muniments of
title, and the public policy of supporting long and uninterrupted possessions. They are founded upon the consideration
that the facts are such as could not, according to the ordinary
course of human affairs, occur, unless there was a transmutation of title to, or an admission of an existing adverse title in,
the party in possession.' It is not necessary, therefore, in the
cases mentioned, for the jury, in order to presume a conveyance, to believe that a conveyance was in point of fact executed. It is sufficient if the evidence leads to the conclusion
that the conveyance might have been executed, and that its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

existence would be a solution of the difficulties arising from
its non-execution." And, further quoting from the Supreme
Court of Tennessee in Williams v. Donell, 2 Head, 695, 697,
"' it is not indispensable, in order to lay a proper foundation
for the legal presumption of a grant, to establish a probability
of the fact that in reality a grant was ever issued. It will
afford a sufficient ground for the presumption to show that,
by legal possibility, a grant might have been issued. And
this appearing, it may be assumed in the absence of circumstances repelling such conclusion that all that might lawfully have been done to perfect the legal title was in fact
done, and in the form prescribed by law.'"
These principles were affirmed as applicable to grants of
the kind we are considering in United States v. Chaves, 159
U. S. 452. Mr. Justice Shiras, speaking for the court, said:
"Without going at length into the subject, it m.ay be safely
said that by the weight of authority, as well as the preponderance of opinion, it is the general rule of American law
that a grant will be presumed upon proof of an adverse, exclusive and uninterrupted possession for twenty years, and
that such rule will be applied as ayresumptiojuris et de jure,
whenever by possibility a right may be acquired in any manner known to the law. 1 Greenleaf Ev. 12th ed. ยง 17; .Ricard
v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59, 109; Coolidge v. Learned, 8 Pick.
503. Nothing, it is true, can be claimed by prescription
which owes its origin to, and can only be had by, matter of
record; but lapse of time, accompanied by acts done or other
circumstances, may warrant the jury in presuming a grant or
title by record. Thus, also, though lapse of time does not of
itself furnish a conclusive bar to the title of the sovereign,
agreeably to the maxim, nullum terpus ocourri Pegi; yet if
the adverse claim could have had a legal commencement,
juries are advised or instructed to presume such commencement, after many years of uninterrupted possession or enjoyment. Accordingly royal grants have been thus found by
the jury, after an indefinitely long-continued peaceful enjoyment-accoapanied by the usual acts of ownership. 1 Greenleaf Ev. ยง 45.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

"The principle upon which this doctrine rests is one of
general jurisprudence, and is recognized in the Roman law
and the codes founded thereon, Best's Principles of Evidence,
ยง 366, and was, therefore, a feature of the Mexican law at the
time of the cession."
The application of these principles to the case at bar does
not need many directing words.
It is contended by the Government that no juridical possession is shown under the grant to the southern portion of the
tract; that there is no grant shown to Sedillo of the northern
portion of the tract; that admitting both are shown there is
no evidence that the title which Don Diego Borrego received
in 1731 was conveyed to Clemente Gutierrez, who was shown
to have had the possession claiming title in 1785. To infer
all these things, it is argued, is to build presumption on presumption, and carry constructive proof too far. The argument is not formidable. The instances mentioned are of the
same kind as those in the cited cases, and the principle of
the cases is -not limited or satisfied by the presumption of only
one step in the title. It requires the presumption of all that
may be necessary to the repose of the title -to the absolute
assurance and quietude of the possession. Quoting the language of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, approved by this
court, it assumes that all "that might lawfully have been
done to perfect the legal title was in fact done and in the form
prescribed by law." And, "There is hardly a species of act
or document, public or private, that will not be presumed in
support of possession. Even acts of Parliament may thus be
presumed, as also will grants from the crown." Best on
Presumptions, sec. 109.
The number of steps presumed does not make the principle
different, and whether it would give more strength to rebutting testimony we might be concerned to consider if there was
any such testimony.
We think there can be but one conclusion in the case. The
possession of the land began in wrong or began in right. If
in wrong, it must be shown. The maxims of the law declare
the other way. Besides it is admitted that the Pueblo of Ise-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

leta has had open and notorious possession as far back as the
memory of the oldest living inhabitant can extend, and that
it was claimed under the heirs of Clemente Gutierrez, and evi*denced by documents which came from the custody and control of the officers who have had them during like memory.
Back to Clemente Gutierrez, therefore, a continuous possession is established by admission and by testimony not contradicted. Back beyond the period of living memory and beyond
that period the title needs no inquiry for its validity and
repose.
But there is some documentary evidence coming from a remoter time, and it has been discussed by counsel. We do not
think it is necessary to consider it at any length. It consists
of-the original grant to Antonio Gutierrez, three instruments of
conveyance, one reciting the grant to Sedillo, and all asserting
ownership and possession of the lands, and an inventory made
of the estate of Clemente Gutierrez by the governor of New
Mexico, then an official of Spain. The latter was made a
judicial record, and the lands mentioned in it distributed
among the heirs. It is to this possession that the appellees
trace, as we have seen, and the questions which can arise
about it- from whom derived and the rightfulness or wrongfulness of it - depend upon principles already sufficiently discussed. It is enough to say that Clemente Gutierrez died in
possession, and his possession was proof of ownership.
It is further contended by the Government that the record
shows that the appellees do not hold the interests of all of the
heirs of Clemente Gutierrez, and that, therefore, the Court of
Private Land Claims should have confirmed the grant, "not
to the claimants appearing before it, but to the ' assigns
and legal representatives of the original grantee.'
And it
*is urged that "to make .,decree in any other form is to
' conclude and affect the private rights of persons as between
eachother,' and this the statute [of 1891] prohibits."
We do not concur in this view of the statute. By careful
distinction it precludes such view. Section 8 of the statute
under which the petitions were presented provides that persons claiming lands under a Spanish or Mexican title "that

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

was complete and perfect at the date when the United States
.acquired sovereignty therein shall have the right (but shall
not be bound) to apply to said court in the manner in this act
provided for in other cases for confirmation of such title;"
but the confirmation of such title "shall be for so much land
only as such perfect title shall be found to cover, always
excepting any part of such land that shall have been disposed
of by the United States, and always subject to and not to
affect any conflicting private interests, rights or claims held
or claimed adversely to any such claim or title, or adversely to
the holder of any such claim or title. And no confirmation
of claims or titles in this section mentioned shall have any
effect other or further than as a release of all claim of title
by the United States; and no private right of any person, as
between himself and other claimants or persons in respect of
any such lands, shall be in any manner affected thereby."
It will be observed that the provision is that from the confirmation there shall be excepted land that shall have been
disposed qf by the United States. It is, however, made subject to "conflicting private interests, rights or claims." The
distinction is obvious, and the reason for it equally so. The
proceeding is not a litigation between conflicting private
interests; it is one against the United States, and determinative only of the title against the United States. To avoid
confusion the lands that have been disposed of by the United
States are required to be excepted from confirmation. To
all other interests and claims the confirmation is made subject. The' forum for their determination is the ordinary
courts. Ainsa v. Nfew .fexico & Arizona Rairoad, ante,
76; and United States v. Conway, ante, 60; both decided at
the present term.
.Decree aJflrmed.

