OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

parties contemplated that complainant would contract with
the inhabitants to supply them with water for domestic purposes, since it was stipulated that complainant should not
charge for water so supplied higher rates than those specified
therein. On the other hand, the city was authorized and empowered by its charter and the act of the legislature of November 30, 1898, to build or otherwise acquire water works of
its own to supply water to itself and its inhabitants for the extinguishment of fires and for sanitary and domestic purposes,
and the city in its contracts with complainant did not agree
not to do so. It did agree to pay complainant for a certain
number of hydrants erected and supplied by it, and to make
the payments monthly, but there was no averment that the
city had by act or word repudiated its obligation or failed or
refused to make the payments stipulated for, or that it intended
to'do so.
In short, there were no facts -averred showing that the city
had violated, was violating, or intended to violate, its contracts
with complainant, and there was no legislation to that end.
Such being the state of the case, the Circuit Court did not err
in dismissing the bill, and as there was color for the motion
to dismiss, the motion to affirm will be sustained.
Decree affimed.

In re BLAKE AND OTHERS, Ex parte.
No number.

ORIGnTAL.

Application for leave presented October 80, 1899. - Denied November 13, 1899.

lung, 172 U. S. 239, (which case was brought here by writ
Blake v. A
of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee,) having been
remanded to that court, and the mandate having gone down, the counsel
of Blake and others moved for the entry of a decree placing them in
the same class and on exact equality with the Tennessee creditors in respect to the distribution of the assets of the insolvent company among its
creditors; but this the state Supreme Court declined to do, and entered a
decree that Blake and others were entitled to participate in the assets on.
the basis of a broad distribution of the assets of the corporation among all

In re BLAKE AND OTHERS, E parte.
Statement of the Case.
of its creditors without preference or priority, as though the act of 1877
had not beenpassed; that there should be a computation of the aggregate
indebtedness due from the corporation to its creditors of every class
wherever residing, whereupon Blake and others should be paid the percentage and proportion found to be due to them on that basis; and that
the residue of the estate of the insolvent compauy should be applied, first
to the payment of the indebtedness due to the creditors of the corporation
residing in Tennessee as provided in section five of the act of 1877, and
then ro rata to the payment of the debts of the alien and non-resident
creditors of said corporation other than Blake and others. To this decree
Blake and others duly excepted, but, insisting that that court had not
complied with the mandate of this court, applied for leave to file a petition for mandamus to compel such compliance. Held that, without inquiring whether the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee were
or were not in harmony with the views expressed by this court, the
remedy of petitioners for the alleged error in the decree of that court,
if any, is by writ of error and not by mandamus, the remedy on error
being not only entirely adequate, and open to be sought unrestrained by
the amount involved, but, in respect of dealing with state tribunals, being manifestly the proper remedy.

THE Embreeville Freehold, Land, Iron and Railway Company, Limited, was a corporation organized under the laws of
Great Britain and Ireland for mining and manufacturing purposes, carrying on business in the State of Tennessee, as
authorized by a law of that State of March 19, 1877. The
fifth section of the act gave priority in the distribution of
assets to resident creditors bf the State. The company having become insolvent, McClung and others filed an original
creditors' bill in the proper court, asking the appointment of a
receiver and the administration of the affairs of the company
as an insolvent corporation. The case resulted in a final decree by the Supreme Court of Tennessee adjudging that the
Tennessee creditors were entitled, under said section, to priority in the distribution of the assets over simple contract creditors of other states and countries. Among the creditors
affected were C. G. Blake and Rogers, Brown and Company,
citizens of the State of Ohio, and the Hull Coal and Coke
Company, a corporation of Virginia, who, being dissatisfied,
sued out a writ of error from this court. And it was held,
reversing the decree of the state Supreme Court, that the
fifth section of the act of 1877, in so far as it gave priority to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Tennessee creditors over creditors of the same class of other
States of the Union, was in violation of the second section of
the fourth article of the Constitution, providing that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States;" but it was also
ruled that a corporation created under the laws of another
State was not a "citizen" within the meaning of this clause.
Blake v. .Mc Olung, 172 U. S. 239, 258, 261.
In the opinion, among other things, it was said: "We adjudge that when the general property and assets of a private
corporation, lawfully doing business in a State, are in course
of administration by the courts of such State, creditors who
are citizens of other States are entitled, under the Constitution
of the United States, to stand upon the same plane with creditors of like class who are citizens of such State, and cannot be
denied equality of right simply because they do not reside in
that State, but are citizens residing in other States of the
Union."
The judgment was in these terms 1:The final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Tennessee must be affirmed as to the
Hull Coal and Coke Company, because it did not deny to that
corporation any right, privilege or immunity secured to it by
the Constitution of 'the United States. As to the other plaintiffs in error, citizens of Ohio, the' judgment must be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion ; and it is so ordered."
The mandate having gone down, the counsel of Blake and
Rogers, Brown and Company moved for the entry of a decree
placing them in the same class and on exact equality with the
Tennessee creditors in respect to the distribution of the assets
of the insolvent company among its creditors, but this the
state Supreme Court declined to do, and entered a decree that
Blake and Rogers, Brown and Company were entitled to participate in the assets on the basis of a broad distribution of the
assets of the corporation among all of its creditors without
preference or priority, as though the act of 1877 had not been
passed I that there should be a computation of the aggregate
indebtedness due from '-he corporation to its creditors of every

In re BLAKE AND OTHERS, Ex parte.

117

Opinion of the Court.

class wherever residing, whereupon Blake and Rogers, Brown
and Company should be paid the percentage and proportion
found to be due to them on that basis; and that the residue
of the estate of the insolvent company should be applied first
to the payment of the indebtedness due to the creditors of the
corporation residing in Tennessee as provided in section five
of the act of 1877, and then pro rata to the payment of the
-debts of the alien and non-resident creditors of said corporation other than Blake and Rogers, Brown and Company.
Beard, J., dissented. 52 S. W. Rep. 1001.
To -this decree Blake and Rogers, Brown and Company
duly excepted, but, insisting that that court had not complied
with the mandate of this court, applied for leave to file a'
petition for mandamus to compel such compliance.
.Ar. Heber . 3fay and 3.6'. Tully h.
for petitioners.

Corni

fied a brief

Ifr. S. C. Williams and i1-. John Y. Green were allowed
to file a brief in opposition.

lMR. CHIE JusTIcE FULLE, after making the above statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of mandamus cannot be issued to compel a judicialtribunal to decide a matter within its discretion in a particular way, or to review its judicial action had in the exercise of
legitimate jurisdiction, nor be used to perform the office of an
appeal or writ of error. And it only lies, as a general rule,
where there is no other adequate remedy. As respects the
Federal courts, it is well settled that where the mandate leaves
nothing to the judgment or discretion of the court below, and
that court mistakes or misconstrues the decree or judgment of
this court and does not give full effect to the mandate, its
action may be controlled, either upon a"new appeal or writ of
error if involving a sufficient amount, or by writ of mandamus
to execute the mandate of this court. City Bank of Fort
Worth. v. Hunter, 152 U. S. 512; In re Sanford Fork and Tool
Company, 160 U. S. 24,7; In 'e Potts, 166 U. S. 263.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Nevertheless, without inquiring whether the conclusions of
the Supreme Court of Tennessee were or were not in harmony
with the views expressed by this court, we are of opinion that
the remedy of petitioners for the alleged error in the decree
of that court, if any, is by writ of error and not by mandamus.
The remedy on error is not only entirely adequate and open
to be sought unrestrained by the amount involved, but in
respect of dealing with state tribunals is manifestly the proper
remedy.
That it is adequate under ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes is
clear. Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, a case on a second writ of error to the state court, in which the statutes
and decisions bearing on the subject are fully considered. And
that it should be resorted to when the action of the state courts
is complained of is equally plain. Assuming that the question
of the form of the proceeding which this court might adopt to
enforce the execution of its own mandates in the courts of the
United States is one of practice merely, and either mode might
be pursued, as ruled by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Perkins v.
Fourniquet,14 How. 328, 330, we think the summary character
of the proceeding by mandamus renders it inappropriate in
respect of the courts of another jurisdiction.
By the thirteenth section of the judiciary act of September
24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 81, this court was clothed with the power
to issue "writs of mandamus in cases warranted by the principles and usages of law, to any courts appointed, or persons
holding office, under the authority of the United States;" and
this was carried forward into ยง 688 of the Revised Statutes.
And it was ruled in Graham v. Nrorton, 15 Wall. 427, that
"this express authority to issue writs of mandamus to National courts and officers has always been held to exclude
authority to issue these writs to state courts and officers;" excepting "where they have been issued as process .to enforce
judgments." In Gordon v. Iongest, 16 Pet. 97, which was a
writ of error to review the action of a state court wrongfully
refusing to remove a case into the Circuit Court, Mr. Justice
McLean intimated that mandamus might lie to compel action
by the state court, but the remark was purely oliter and cannot be regarded as authoritative.

In re BLAKE AND OTHERS, Ex parte.
Opinion of the Court.

By the fourteenth section of the judiciary act, Circuit Courts
were vested with power "to issue writs of 8irefaoias,

and all other writs not specially provided for by statute, which
may be necessary to the. exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law;"
which was reenacted as section 716 of the -Revised Statutes.
In Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244, it was held that the
Circuit Courts had no power to issue writs of mandamus to
state courts, by way of original proceeding, and where the
writ was neither necessary nor ancillary to any jurisdiction
which the court then had.
But our attention has been called to no case in .which this
court has exercised jurisdiction by mandamus under circumstances similar to those supposed to exist here; while there
are cases in the Circuit Courts which illustrate the propriety
of declining to do so.
In Iadd v. Tudor, 3 Wood. & Min. 325, 332, which was
an application for a mandamus to compel a state court to re-'
move a cause to the Circuit Court, Mr. Justice Woodbury said :
"Some doubt might exist, whether a mandamus to a state
court from this tribunal organized under another government,
was a proper remedy. It has been settled that a state court
cannot issue a mandamus to an officer of the United States.
_fcClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598. In 16 Pet. 97 the remedy was by a writ of error to reverse the first judgment in the
state court. And where another remedy lies, a mandamus is
held to be improper. 10 Johns. 484. But Cooke, 160, seems
to countenance the present cause. Brown v. Crilpin, 4 Hen.
& M. 173, quoted in some of the digests for it, seems, on examination, to be a case of a mandamus by the highest state
court to the common pleas in the same State, to remove such
a case, and not one from a court of the United States. .
In .loIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504, it was held that a mandamus did not lie from the Circuit Court to an officer of the
United States; and though that speaks generally of the
power of this court to issue it in order to sustain its jurisdiction, and the decision in Cooke rests on that power of superior
courts to enforce their jurisdiction over inferior ones by man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

damus, yet it is very questionable whether a case like the
present ought to be considered within that principle. It is a
correct principle between inferior and superior courts of the
same government, but difficult to be upheld between courts
established by separate governments. If necessary to decide
on this, it might require more grave consideration before sustaining it in cases like this, because being a mode of redress
very likely to lead to jealousies and collisions between the
States and General Government of a character anything but
desirable." The Jtsticesv. Murray, 9 Wall. 274, was a writ
of error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of 1New
York from a judgment for a perenptory mandamus rendered
against the justices of the Supreme Court of New York for
the Third District to remove a cause, but Mr. Justice Nelson
stated in a note on page 276, that: "The alternative and peremptory mandamus against the Supreme Court of New York
was allowed by consent of the counsel for the defendants, with
a view to present the question raised and decided in the case.
The Circuit Court had refused to issue it against the court, and
issued it.only against the clerk. This is stated to prevent the
case from being cited as an authority for the power, and without intending to express any opinion on this subject." And
see Hough v. W'estern Tran&portation Company, 1 Bissell, 425,
Drummond, J. ; Fisk v. Union PaciioRailroad Company, 6
Blatchford, 362, Blatchford, J.; High on Extr. Remedies,
Third Edition, ยง 227 et.seq., and cases cited.
Leave to file petition denied.

NEW ORLEANS v. WARER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF AFPEALS FOR THE FIF
CIRCUIT.
No. 172. Argued March 13,1899. -Decided

November 18, 1899.

Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, this court holds
that the drainage warrants of the city of New Orleans, in question in this
case, being neither bills of exchange, nor promissory notes, nor notes pay-

