OCTOBER' TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

stock in payment was ultra vires. If, upon the other hand,
the object of the contract was to obtain the assets and good
will of the Consolidated Company upon payment of its debts,
then the promise of the Refrigerating Company to pay the
plaintiffs therefor was without consideration, since the assets
were the property of the Consolidated Company and not of
its stockholders, and anything realized by the sale of such
assets belonged to the company or its assignee, and should be
devoted first to the payment of its debts. If there were anything of value beyond the control of the stock which passed
to the Refrigerating Company under the contract, the assignee
could not be dispossessed of it until all the debts were paid or
compromised, when it would revert to the corporation but not
to the plaintiffs. Their title to sue must rest upon their
ownership of the stock, and if the defence of ultra vires be
sustained, we know of no theory upon which the plaintiffs
can recover. It certainly cannot be true that the plaintiffs
can take to themselves the hundred thousand dollars stipulated by this contract and leave creditors of the corporation
unpaid to the extent of $150,000.
The judgment'of the Circuit Court of A.ppeals and of the
Circuit Court must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
.71issouriwith directions to grant a new trial.
Mv[R. JUSTICE

BREwER, and

Mt.

JUSTICE MOKENNA

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. CONWAY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.No. 13. Argued and submitted January 12, 1899.-Decided October 30,1699.

The act of Congress of December 22, 1858, 11 Stat. 374, confirming a grant
of pueblos to Indians, operated to release to the Indians all the title of
the United States to the land covered by it as effectually as if it contained in terms a grant de novo; and such action of Congress is not subject to judicial review.

UINITED STATES v. CONWAY.
Statement of the Case.
The United States is a proper and necessary party to a suit brought in the
Court of Private Land Claims for confirmation of a private land claim,
covering pueblos previously so granted to Indians, and can follow the
litigation through all the courts that are given jurisdiction of the case.
When a title to public land has been confirmed by Congress, it should be
respected by the Court of Private Land-Claims: but conflicting claimants
may resort to the ordinary remedies at law.

THis was a petition filed by Marla de la Paz Valdez de
Conway and twenty-one others in the Court of Private Land
Claims for the confirmation of a tract of land known as the
Cuyamungue grant, or private land claim, situated in the
county of Santa F6, Territory of New Mexico, and alleged to
contain in excess of five thousand acres.
It appears from an examination of the expediente, offered
in evidence as the basis of the claim, that on January 22, 1731,
Bernardino de Sena, Tomas de Sena and Luis Lopez presented
a petiti6n to Governor Juan Domingo Bustamente to grant
them the surplus land in the abandoned pueblo of Cuyamungue as royal, public and uninhabited, and described it as being
situated on both sides of the river Tesuque, (formerly Cuyamungue,) and extending from a bluff of the pueblo of Cuyamungue to the hills of the Namb6 road.
The governor made the grant on the same day, directed the
chief alcalde of the new village of Santa Oruz to notify the
Indians of the pueblo of Tesuque, the heirs of certain adjoining property owners and all other citizens of the vicinity to
show cause, if any they had, why the tract should not be
granted to the petitioners, and, if there were no objection,
to put them in possession.
Such notice having been given, the alcalde on January 22,
1731, put the petitioners in juridical possession of the lands,
describing- the boundaries; and, after executing such act, returned the proceedings to the governor, by whom they were
approved and placed in the royal archives of the city of Santa
F6, testmonio thereof being delivered to the grantees, the
original of which is now a part of the archives of the United
States in the custody of the surveyor general of the Territory.
The grantees, their heirs and assigns, have been in possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of the land grant up to the present time, a period of one hundred and sixty-four years.
The petition further alleged that the claim had been examined and approved by the surveyor general of the Territory,
returned by him favorably to Congress with a recommendation
that the same be confirmed to the legal representatives of the
original petitioners; but that it had never been acted upon by
Congress, or the authorities of the United States.
The Government made no answer to the petition, but the
court proceeded to hear the cause upon petition and proofs
under the last clause of section six of the Court of Private
Land Claims act, notwithstanding the failure of the Government to file an answer. Petitioners produced certain witnesses to the effect that portions of the land granted had been
occupied and cultivated by persons claiming under the original grantees; while the Government showed that 'Indians of
the pueblos of Namb6 and Pojoaque had many years before
instituted proceedings before the surveyor general of New
Mexico under the act of July 22, 1854, for four leagues of
land each; that the surveyor general had recommended that
the lands thus demanded be granted to them, and Congress
had confirmed the grant to each of said pueblos for four
leagues as recommended, 11 Stat. 374, c. 5, December 22, 1858;
that the grants to said pueblos were surveyed and patents for
them issued; that such surveys covered the larger portions of
the land of the old pueblo of Cuyamungue, which petitioners
alleged were granted to the original grantees in this case.
The oral testimony tended to show that the pueblo of
Pojoaque had been in existence since 1710, and the pueblo of
Namb6 from a time immemorial.
Upon motion made by the Government and upon the consent of all the parties to the proceeding, it was ordered on
October 11, 1895, that these pueblos be made parties, and
that the petition of the claimants be deemed amended accordingly. It did not appear that any copy of the petition was
served upon these pueblos, or that they appeared or waived
service; but the court on October 24, 1885, entered a decree
against the United States confirming the entire grant as corn-

UNITED STATES v. CONWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

plete and perfect as of the date of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, in 1848, and further decreed that the confirmation
should in no nowise affect the rights of the pueblos of Pojoaquo and Namb6, if any they have, as between them and the
confirmees under their patents issued by the United States
Government.
Subsequently to this decree, and on November 9, the Indians
'of the two pueblos above named entered their appearance,
stated that the lands confirmed to the petitioners were almost
entirely within the limits of the lands confirmed by the act of
Congress to these pueblos, and patented to them, and that
while they were made parties defendant to the petition they
were never served with process, and had no opportunity of
making a defence, and therefore moved the court to vacate
the decree of confirmation and allow them to be heard in
opposition'to the claim. This motion was subsequently, and
on December 2, 1896, denied, whereupon the United States
appealed to this court.
.Mi'. ._ tthew G. Reynolds for the United States.
licitor General was on his brief.

Mr. So-

_r. John Z Knaebel, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
MR. JfUsTI E BRowN, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
This case involves the proper disposition by the Court of
Private Land Claims, under the act of Congress constituting
the court, of overlapping grants. The facts are extremely
simple: Petitioners derived their title by purchase or inheritance from the original grantees, who held under a royal griant
made in 1731 by the then governor of New Mexico, and
through which they had been in possession of portions of the
land ever since. Their grant had been examined, surveyed
and approved by the surveyor general of the United States in
1871, but had never been confirmed by Congress. It was not
true, as stated in the petition, however, that "no person or

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

persons, natural or artificial, are in possession of the said land,
or any part thereof, or claim the same or any part thereof adversely to your petitioners, or otherwise than by their lease or
permission," since it appears there were two Indian pueblos
within the iimits of the grant, from a time whence the memory
of man and the traditions of the several tribes ran not to the
contrary. It was shown that one of them, Pojoaque, had a
bell originally cast for its church which bore the date of 1710.
These pueblos had instituted proceedings before the surveyor
general under the act of July 22, 1854, 10 Stat. 308, for four
leagues of land, which he recommended to be granted, and in
compliance therewith Congress confirmed a grant to each of said
pueblos, which grants were subsequently surveyed and patents
issued. 11 Stat. 374. These surveys covered all the land of
the abandoned pueblo of Ctayamungue, granted to the petitioners, except about one hundred acres. It was insisted in the
court below that the land covered by these patents should be
excepted out of the degree of confirmation in this case; but it
was held that the pueblos had no just right or claim at the
date of the treaty to any part of the land covered by the petitioners' grant; that the United States acquired no right or
interest in the land of a citizen in the ceded territory held by
a complete and perfect title at the date of the treaty; that
Congress did not undertake to decide who was the rightful
owner of the land confirmed to the pueblos, but on the contrary expressly stated -that the .patents were not to interfere
with any prior right to the land which might be held by other
parties. Said the court: "If the petitioners in this case have
a complete and perfect title to the land in question under the
grant of 1731, it necessarily follows that the pueblos of -Namb6
and Pojoaque have no right or title to any of the land within
the boundaries of such complete and perfect grant. Bvt the
decree of this court does not in any way affect the right d
title (if any) that the pueblos acquired by their patents from
the United States, as between them and petitioners."
The court declined to except out of the decree of confirmation the lands covered by the pueblos' patents, but did adjudge
that the confirmation should in nowise affect the rights of

UNITED STATES v. CONWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

the pueblos as between them and the petitioners under their
patents.
The case depends largely upon the construction given to
the sections and parts of sections of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, constituting the Court of Private Land
Claims.
By section six the petitioner is required to bet forth, among
other things, "the name or names of any person or persons in
possession of or claiming the same," (the lands,) "or any part
thereof, otherwise than by the lease or permission of the petitioner; . . . and a copy of such petition, with a citation
to any adverse possessor or claimant, shall . . . be served

on such possessor or claimant in the. ordinary legal manner of
serving such process in the proper State or Territory, and in
like manner on the attorney of the United States;" whose
duty it is "to enter an appearance, and plead, answer or
demur,

.

.

and in no case shall a decree be entered

.

otherwise than upon full legal proof and hearing."
By section seven the court has "full power to hear and
determine all questions in cases before it relative to the title
to the land the subject of such case; the extent, location and
boundaries thereof, and other matters connected therewith fit
and proper to be heard and determined, and by a final decree
to settle and determine the question of. the validity of the
title and the boundaries of the grant or claim presented for
adjudication,

.

.

and all other questions properly aris-

ing between -the claimants, or other parties in the case, and
the United States."
By section eight, persons claiming lands under a Spanish or
Mexican title "that was complete and perfect at the date when
the United States acquired sovereignty therein, shall have the
right (but shall not be bound) to apply to said court in the
manner in this act provided for in other cases for confirmation of such title;" but the confirmation of such title "shall
be for so much land only as such perfect title shall be found
to cover, always excepting any part of such land that shall
have been di&sosed of by tw United States, and always gubject
to and not to affect any conflicting private interests, rights or
VOL. LXXV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

claims held or claimed adversely to any such claim or title, or
adversely to the holder of any such claim or title. And no
confirmation of claims or titles in this section mentioned shall
have any effect other or further than as a release of all claim
of title by the United States; and no private right of any person, as between himself and other claimants or persons in
respect of any such lands; shall be in any manner affected
thereby." It was under this section that the petition in this
case was presented and a "complete and perfect title" claimed.
By section thirteen, defining the character of claims that
shall be allowed as those that "if not then complete and perfect at the date of the acquisition of the Territory by the
United States, the claimant would have had a lawful right to
make perfect had the Territory not been acquired by the
United States," it is provided in the second subdivision that
"no claim shall be allowed that shall interfere with, or overthrow, any just or unextinguished Indian title or right to any
land or place;" and by subdivision four, that "no claim shall
be allowed for any land the right to which has hitherto
been lawfully acted upon or decided by Congress or under
its authority."
Subdivision five provided: "No proceeding, decree or act
under this act shall conclude or affect the private rights of
persons as between each other, all of which rights shall be
preserved and saved to the same effect as if this act had not
been passed; but the proceedings, decrees and acts herein provided for shall be conclusive, of all rights as between the
United States and all persons claiming any interest or right
in such land."
Subdivision six provides: "No confirmation of or decree
concerning any claim under this act shall in any manner
operate or have effect against the United States otherwise
than as a release by the United States of its right and title to
the land confirmed, nor shall it operate to make the United
States in any manner liable in respect of any such grants,
claims or lands, or their disposition, otherwise than as in this
act provided."
1, The decisive questioi in the case is; Whether the lands

UNITED STATES v. CONWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

confirmed by the act of Congress of December 22, 1858, pursuant to the recommendation of the surveyor general (11 Stat.
374) tothe Indian pueblos of Pojoaque and Namb6, should
have been excepted from the decree of confirmation? This
act also -contains a proviso similar to. that contained in the
Court of Private Land Claims act, that "this confirmation
shall only be construed as a relinquishment of all title and
claim of the United States to any of said lands, and shall not
affect any adverse valid rights should such exist."
-This act operated, then, to release to the Indians -all thetitle of the United States to the land covered by it, and
passed the title of the United States as effectually-as if it contained in terms a grant de novo. Ryan v. Carter,.93 U. S.
78,82. Nor is the action of Congress confirming such private
land claim subject to judicial review. As was said by this
court in Tameling v. United States Freehold & Emigration
Co., 93 U. S.644, 662: "No jurisdiction over such claims in
New Mexico was conferred upon the courts; but the shrveyor
general, in the exercise of the authority with which he was
invested, decides them in the first instance. The final action
on each claim reserved to Congress is, of course, conclusive,
and therefore not subject to review in this or any other forum.
It is obviously not the duty of this court to sit in judgment
upon either the recital of the matters of fact by the surveyor
general, or his decision declaring the validity of the grant.
They are embodied in his report, which was laid before Congress for its consideration and action." See also 3faxwell .and
Grant case, 121 U. S.325.
The Government having thus exhausted its power with reference to the land in dispute by granting all its title as sovereign proprietor to the pueblos, it is difficult to see upon what
principle it is called upon to make or confirm another grant
to a different person. Nothing can be plainer from the language of the Private Land Claim act than that lands -"that
shall have been disposed of by the United States" should be
excepted from the decree of confirmation, (see. 8;) that no.
claim shall be allowed which shall interfere with or overthrow
any just or unextinguished Indian title, (sec. 13 ;) that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

claim shall be allowed for any land, the right to which has
been lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress, (sec. 13,)
and that no proceeding under the act shall conclude or affect
the private rights of persons as between each other, (sec. 13).
Under these provisions, if the court were to confirm this grant
for lands already granted, such confirmation would be void, as
nothing is better settled by this court than that a patent issued
by the United States to lands which they do not own is a
simple nullity. Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 87, 99;
S. C., 5 Wheat. 293 ; Sabariegov. .faverick, 121 U. S. 261, 281 ;
Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U, S. 488, 520; .Doolanv. Carr,125
U. S. 618, 625; Joble v. Union River Logging Railroad,147
U. S. 165, 174.
It is true that the act of December 22, 1858, confirming
these lands to the pueblos may have been itself void by reason
of petitioner's prior title thereto; but that is a question which
is not necessarily involved in this case and upon which we
express no opinion. It will occasionally happen that the
Government through accident or inadvertence will patent the
same land a second time; but when its attention is called to
the fact that the land has been previously patented it cannot.
patent the same land a second time without virtuaUy-stultifying itself. A patent assumes that a patentor has certain
rights to convey, and that if those rights have already been
conveyed with the knowledge of the grantor, a second patent
carries with it a suspicion of a want of good faith.
Nor is the confirmation of this patent essential to the protection of the petitioners. The title set forth is one which was
complete and perfect at the date of the treaty, and while they
had the right, under section eight, they were clearly not bound
to apply to the court for a confirmation of such title, but were
at liberty to resort to the local courts for its establishment.
It is possible that the surveyor general, in recommending
the grant of four square leagues to each pueblo, measured
from the church as a centre, allowed more than was proper;
yet, as he acted according to the opinion at one time prevailing, and as Congress confirmed the grant to that amount, the
propriety of such grant cannot be attacked here upon that or

UNITED STATES v. CO1WAY.
Opinion of the Court.

any other ground. As was said in the case of Tameling v.
U. S. Freehold Co., 93 U. S. 644, 663: "Congress acted
upon the claim as recommended for confirmation by the surveyor general. The confirmation being absolute and unconditional, without any limitation as to quantity, we must regard
it as effectual and operative for the entire tract."
[or is this the proper time to adjudicate upon the respective
merits of the two titles. We have only to consider whether
the Government can properly be called upon to confirm that
which it has already confirmed to another party. The Court
of Private Land Claims seems to have assumed that the grant
by Congress to the pueblos was absolutely void by reason of
the fact that the petitioners having a complete and perfect
title the United States had nothing to convey. This may be
entirely true, but it is not perceived how the petitioners' title
can be aided by the Government divesting itself for a second
time of a title which it had already released. The duty of
the court under section eight, "to hear, try and determine the
validity of the same" (the grant) "and the right of the claimant thereto, its extent, location and boundaries," is discharged
by determining the extent and validity of the grant as between
the United States and the grantee, and it is not incumbent
upon the Court of Private Land Claims to determine the priority of right as between him and another grantee. Such
private rights are carefully preserved in the eighth and
thirteenth sections.
2. The appeal in this case was properly taken by the United
States. While the Government may have no interest in the
result of the litigation, it is a proper and necessary party to
the suit, and it would be a strange conclusion to hold that it
could not follow the litigation through all the courts that are
given jurisdiction of the case. Upon such appeal the Government is at liberty to show that the.petitioner is not entitled to
a confirmation of his claim. Indeed, an appeal is expressly
given by section nine, which enacts that "the party against
whom the court shall in any case decide -the United States
in case of the confirmation of the claim in whole or in part,
and the claimant in case of a rejection of a claim in whole

OOTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or in part-shall have the right of appeal to the Suprein'
Court of the United States."
3. That the Indian claim or title is a "just and unextinguished" one within the meaning of section thirteen, subdivision two, of the act is shown by the fact that such title was
confirmed by Congress. By the word "just" in this connection is meant only a title which is good upon its face, or not
manifestly frivolous - not one which shall ultimately turn
out to be valid. As already observed, it was not the object of
the act to permit private titles to be litigated in the Court of
Private Land Claims, (although perhaps this may be done incidentally,) but merely to determine if and to whom the
United States ought to release its rights as sovereign proprietor of the soil. As was said by this court in Adam v. No'ris,
103 U. S. 594:
"But the United States, in dealing with the parties claiming under Mexican grants lands within the Territory ceded by
the treaty of Mexico, never made pretence that it was the
owner of them. When, therefore, guided by the action of the
tribunals established to pass upon the validity of these alleged
grants, the Government issued a patent, it was in the nature
of a quitclaim -an admission that the rightful ownership had
never been in the United States, but hai passed at the time
of the cession to the claimant, or to those under whom he
claimed. This principle has been more than once clearly announced in this court. The leading cases are Beardv. Federy,
,3 Wall. 478; Henshaw v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 268; .Miller v. Dale,
92.U. S. -478.
"Such a patent was, therefore, conclusive only as between
the United States and the grantee, [and was evidence that, as
to them, the claimants had established the validity of the
grant.]

.

.

.

We do not .think, therefore, that if defend-

ant's survey and patent are based upon a superior Mexican
grant, their rights are concluded by the prior survey of the
plaintiffs."
' We do not wish to be understood as holding that two
claimants to the same land may not litigate, as between
themselves, which of the two is entitled to a confirmation, and

REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO V. UNITED STATES.

71

Syllabus.

the questionl thus becomes res aijudicata; but when the title
has once been confirmed by Congress it should be respected by
th6 Court of Private Land Claims as if it were a confirmation
by the court itself, and conflicting claimants are at liberty to
resort to the ordinary remedies at law or in equity, according
to the nature of the*claim.
The main object of the Court of Private Land Claims is to
ascertain and determine whether the land claimed as private
property under the treaty 1s in fact private property, or, on
the'contrary, is public property. In the latter case, of course,
a confirmation is refused; in the former case a confirmation
is made if the claimant appears to have, as between himself
and the United States, the right to it, but subject to the rights
of others who are at liberty to assert their superior title in the
local courts.
e are therefore of opinion that the decree of conjfrnation
should have excepted the pueblo lands, and such decree is
accordingly reversed,and the case rem'anded for further
.proceedingsin accordancewith this opinion.
MRt. JUsTI

SmEAS and MR. JTUsTICE WHITE dissented.

REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO v. UNITED. STATES.
.APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND -CLAMS.

No. 17. Argued and submitted January 12,1899. -Decided November 30, 1899.
A claim in the Court of Private Land Claims for land within the limits of a
mine grant, which grant has been confirmed by Congregs and a patent
issued therefor, must be rejected by that court.
Section 14 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, 861, establishing that court, which provides for a personal judgment against the United
States in cases where the land decreed to any claimant, under the provisions of the act, shall have been sold or granted by the United States,
applies only to cases where such lands have been sold or granted as public lands, for a consideration which equitably belongs to the owner of
the land, and not to cases where the Government has merely released its

