HARTFORD INS. CO. v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY.

91

Syllabus.

zona, afirm'ing the judgment of the district court of Pima
County, is reversed, and the case remanded for .further
_proceedings.
MR. 0HIF JUSTICE FULLER dissented.

In No. 2,

AINsA V. NEW M-EXICO AND ARIZONA RAILROAD CoM-

PANY, a similar case submitted by the same counsel at the same
time, judgment was likewise reversed, MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

dissenting.

HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. CHICAGO,

MILWAUKEE

&

ST.

PAUL

RAILWAY

COMPAN-Y.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No.5. Argued November 11,12, 1S9. -Decided

November 6, 1S99.

Questions of public policy, as affecting the liability for acts done, or upon
contracts made and to be performed, within one of the States of the
Union -when not controlled by the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, or by the principles of the commercial or mercantile law
or of general jurisprudence, of national or universal application - are
governed by the law of the State, as expressed in its own constitution
and statutes, or declared by its highest court.
A lease to a commercial partnership from a railroad corporation of a strip
of its land by the side of its track in the State of Iowa, for the purpose
of erecting and maintaining a cold storage warehouse thereon, contained
an agreement that the corporation should not be liable to the partnership
for any damage to the building or contents, by fire from the locomotive
engines of the corporation, although owiog to its negligence. At the
trial of an action brought in the Circuit Court of the United States by
the partnership against the corporation to recover for damage to the
building and contents by fire from its locomotive engines, owing to its
negligence, under a statute of the State making any railroad corporation
liable for damage to property of others by fire from its locomotive engines, the plaintiff contended that the agreement was void as against
public policy. It appeared that, since this lease, the highest court of the
State, in an action between other parties, had at first held a like agreement
to be void as against public policy, but, upon a rehearing, had reversed

