OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

THE BUENA VENTURA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITFD STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 106. Argued November 1, 2,1899. -Decided

December 11, 1899.

In the fourth clause of the President's proclamation of April 26, 1898, issued
after the declaration of war against Spain by Congress, April 25, 1898,
it was said: "4. Spanish merchant vessels in any ports or places within
the United States, shall be allowed till May 21, 1898, inclusive, for loading their cargoes and departing from such ports or places, and such
Spanish merchant vessels, if met at sea by any United States ship, shall
be permitted to continue their voyage if, on examination of their papers,
it shall appear that their cargoes were taken on board before the expiration of the above term; provided, that nothing herein contained shall
apply to Spanish vessels having on board any officer in the military or
naval service of the enemy, or any coal (except such as may be necessary for their voyage), or any other article prohibited or contraband
of war, or any dispatch of or to the Spanish Government." The Buena
Ventura, a Spanish vessel, being at Cuba in March, 1898, was chartered
to proceed with all convenient speed to Ship Island, Mississippi, and
there to take on board a cargo of lumber for Rotterdam. Under this
charter she arrived at Ship Island in the latter part of March, 1898,
and took on a cargo of lumber for Rotterdam. She cleared at the custom
house on the 14th of April accordingly, but was detained by low water
until April 19, when, between 8 and 9 A.M.. she proceeded on her voyage.
While so proceeding she was captured by a man of war of the United
States about ten miles off the Florida coast. Up to the moment of
capture all her officers were ignorant of the existence of a state of
war, and the vessel, at' the time of her capture, was following the
ordinary course of her voyage. After .hearing in the District Court
of the United States the Buena Ventura was condemned and sdld under
a decree of court, and the proceeds were deposited to abide the event of
an appeal from that decree. .ehd;
(1) That an innocent vessel like the Buena 7entura, which had loaded
within a port of the United States, and had sailed therefrom
before the commencement of the war, was entitled, under the
proclamation, to continue its voyage, that being clearly within
the intention of the President, under the liberal construction
which this court is bound to give to that document;
(2) That the reversal of the judgment below, condemning the Buena
Ventura, should be without costs or damages in her favor;
(3) That the moneys arising from the sale of the vessel must be paid
to the claimant, deducting only the expenses properly incident
to her custody and preservation up to the time of sale.

THE BUENA VENTURA.
Statement of the Case.

DURING

the late war between the United States and Spain,

and on May 27, 1898, the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Florida condemned the steamship
Buena Ventura as lawful prize of war, on the ground "that
the said steamship Buena Ventura was enemy's property, and
was upon the high seas and not in any port or place of the
United States upon the outbreak of the war, and was liable
to condemnation and seizure."
It was thereupon ordered
that the vessel "be condemned and forfeited to the United
States as lawful prize of war; but it appearing that the cargo
of said steamer was the property of neutrals and not contraband and subject to condemnation and forfeiture, it is ordered
that said cargo be released and- restored to the claimant or
the true and lawful owners thereof."
The vessel was captured on April 22, 1898, eight or nine
miles from Sand Key light, on the Florida coast, by the
United States ship of war Nashville, under the command of
a line officer of the United States 1Savy, was brought into the
port of Key West for adjudication, and was condemned upon
the answers, given by the master and mate of the steamship,
to standing interrogatories in Trqparatorio,and upon the documents'seized on board the ship by. the captors. This evidence
showed that, the steamship was a Spanish vessel engaged
exclusively in the carrying of cargoes, and that at the time of
her capture she was making a voyage under a charter party
which had been concluded in Liverpool on March 23, 1898,
between the agents of the owners and the agents of the charterers. By this charter party the steamship was described
as "now ready to leave Cuba;" and it was agreed upon
therein that the vessel should with all convenient speed proceed to Ship Island, Mississippi, and there take on a cargo of
lumber, and proceed therewith, as customary, to Rotterdam.
The vessel was to be at her loading place and ready for cargo
on or before the 10th of April, and if she were not, the
charterers had the option of cancelling the charter. Pursuant
to this charter party the ship left Cub,%and arrived at Ship
Island about the 31st of March, and between that time and
the 19th of April she had taken on her cargo, and on the
VOL. cLxxv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1899:
Statement of the Case.

latter day had sailed from Ship Island bound for Norfolk,
Virginia, to take in bunker coal, the charter party giving the
vessel the liberty to stop at any port on the voyage.for coal,
then to proceed to Rotterdam. After leaving port at Ship
Island she proceeded on her voyage to Norfolk, and about
half-past seven o'clock on the morning of April 22, while
proceeding close to the Florida reefs, was captured as stated.
She made no resistance at the time of her capture, there were
no military or naval officers on board of her, and she carried
no arms or munitions of war. The evidence is undisputed
that the vessel, when captured, was proceeding on her voyage
to Norfolk.
Previous to sailing from Ship Island she was furnished
with a bill of health, in which it was stated that she was now
"ready to depart from the port of Pascagoula, Mississippi,
[which is the customs port of Ship Island,] for Norfolk,
Virginia, and other places beyond the sea." Her manifest
showed that she was bound for Norfolk. It is headed "Coast
Manifest," and after a description of the cargo it continues:
"Permission is hereby granted to said vessel to proceed from
this port to Norfolk, in the district of Norfolk and State of
Virginia, to lade bunker coal;" and it was signed and sealed
by the deputy collector of Pascagoula, district of Pearl River,
Mississippi, on April 14, 1898, and the fees therefor paid.
The ship's clearance was for Norfolk, and contained the
same permission to proceed there, to lade bunker coal.
There was no evidence which tended to throw any suspicion
as to the destination of the vessel.
After obtaining all of her papers in the regular way, and
having cleared at the custom house on April 14, 1898, she was
detained at Ship Island by low water until between eight and
nine o'clock A. M. of April 19, 1898, when. she sailed over the
bar and proceeded on her voyage.
In the test affidavit of the master he swore that at all-times
before the ship's seizure he and all of his officers were ignorant
that war existed between Spain and the United States, and
the vessel at the time of her capture was following the ordiniry course of her voyage.

THE BUENA VENTURA.
Opinion of the Court.

The various proceedings of Congress, proclamations of the
President, letters of the Secretary of State, and other public
documents connected with occurrences leading up to the breaking out of hostilities between this country and Spain are contained in this record, but are also set forth at sufficient length
in the statement of facts contained in the report of the case of
The Pedro, ante 355, and it is unnecessary, therefore, to repeat
them.
After a hearing the District Court on the 27th of May, 1898,
condemned the vessel, 87 Fed. Rep. 927, which was sold under
the final decree of the court, and her proceeds deposited to
abide the event of an appeal, which was then taken on the part
of the claimant.'
Mr. J. Parker Jirlin for appellant.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
3&. Joseph . -oe Cammon and Mr. James -H. Hayden. for
the naval captors, were on Mr. Hoyt's brief.
.Mr. George A. King and .1fr. William B. -King filed a brief
for certain captors.
Mn. JusTicE PEcxKH.&, after stating the facts as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Buena Ventura was a Spanish merchant vessel in the
peaceful prosecution of her voyage to Norfolk, Virginia, from
Ship Island, in the State of Mississippi, when, on the morning
of April 22, 1898, she was captured as lawful prize of war, of
the existence of which, up to the moment of capture, all her
officers were ignorant. She was not violating any blockade,
carried neither contraband of war nor any officer in the military or naval service of the enemy, nor any dispatch of or to
the Spanish Government, and attempted no resistance when
captured.
The facts, regarding this vessel place her within that class

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which this Government has always desired to treat with
great liberality. It is, as we think, historically accurate to say
that this Government has always been, in its views, among
the most advanced of the Governments of the world in favor
of mitigating, as to all non-combatants, the hardships and horrors of war. To accomplish that object it has always advocated those rules which would in most cases do away with the
right to capture the private property of an enemy on the high
seas. 3 Wharton's International Law Digest, ยง 342. The refusal
of this Government to, agree to the Declaration of Paris was
founded in part upon the refusal of the other Governments to
agree to the proposition exempting private property, not contraband, from capture upon the sea.
It being plain that merchant vessels of the enemy carrying
on innocent commercial enterprises at the time or just prior
to the time when hostilities between the two countries broke
out, wotild, in accordance with the later practice of civilized
nations, be the subject of liberal treatment by the Executive,
it is necessary when his proclamation has been issued, which
lays down rules for treatment of merchant vessels, to put
upon the words used therein the most liberal and extensive
interpretation of which they are capable; and where there
are two or more interpretations which possibly might be put
upon the language, the one that will be most favorable to the
belligerent party, in whose favor the proclamation is issued,
ought to be adopted.
This is the doctrine of the English courts, as exemplified in
The Phonix, Spink's Prize Cases, 1, 5, and The Argo, Id. p.
52. It is the doctrine which this court believes to be proper
and correct.
To ascertain the intention of the Executive we must look to
the words which he uses. If the language is plain and clear,
and the meaning not open to discussion, there is an end of the
matter. If, however, such is not the case, and interpretation
or construction must be resorted to fS the purpose of ascertaining the precise meaning of the text, it is our duty with
reference to this public instrument to make it as broad in its
exemptions as is reasonably possible.

THE BUENA VENTURA.
Opinion of the Court.

If inferences must be drawn therefrom in order to render
certain the limitations intended, those inferences should be,
so far as is possible, in favor of the claimant in behalf of the
owners of the vessel.
The language to justify an exemption of the vessel must, it
is true, be found in the proclamation; yet if such language
fail to state with entire clearness the full extent and scope of
such exemption, thereby making it necessary that some interpretation thereof should be given, it is proper to refer to the
prior views of the Executive Department of the Government
as evidence of its policy regarding the subject. This is not
for the purpose of enlarging the natural and ordinary meaning of the words used in the proclamation, but for the purpose of thereby throwing some light upon the intention of
the Executive in issuing the instrument and also to aid in the
interpretation of the language employed therein, where the
extent or scope of that language is not otherwise entirely
plain and clear. A reference to the views that have heretofore been announced by the Executive Department is made in
3 Wharton, supra,and it will be found that they are in entire
accord with the most liberal spirit for the treatment of noncombatant vessels of the enemy.
We come now to the construction of the instrument. It
will be seen that Congress on the 25th of April, 1898, declared
war against Spain, and in the declaration it is stated that war
had existed since the 21st of April preceding. The President
on the 26th of April issued his proclamation regarding the
principles to be followed in the prosecution of the war. It is
dated the day it was issued. 'The fourth clause thereof may
for convenience be here reproduced, as follows:
"4. Spanish merchant vessels in any ports or places within
the United States shall be allowed until May 21st, 1898, inclusive, for loading their cargoes and departing from such ports
or places; and such Spanish merchant vessels, if met at sea
by any United States ship, shall be permitted to continue
their voyage, if, upon examination of their papers, it shall
appear that .their cargoes were taken on board before the
expiration of the above term: Provided, that nothing herein

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

contained shall apply to Spanish vessels having on board any
officer in the military or naval service of the enemy; or any
coal (except such as may be necessary for their voyage), or
any other article prohibited or contraband of war, or any dispatch of or to the Spanish Government."
What is included by the words "Spanish merchant vessels
in any ports or places within the United States shall be allowed until May 21, 1898, inclusive, for loading their cargoes
and departing from such ports or places"? At what time
must these Spanish vessels be "in any ports or places within
the United States" in order to be exempt from capture? The
time is not stated in the proclamation, and therefore the intention of the Executive as to the time must be inferred. It
is a case for construction or interpretation of the language
employed.
That language is open to several possible constructions.
It might be said that in describing Spanish merchant vessels in any ports, etc., it was meant to include only those
which were in such ports on the day when the proclamation was issued, April 26. Or it might be held (in accordance with the decision of the District Court) to include those
that were in such ports on the 21st of April, the day that war
commenced, as Congress declared. Or it might be construed
so as to include not alone those vessels that were in port on
that day, but also those that had sailed therefrom on any day
up to and including the 21st of May, the last day of exemption, and were, when captured, continuing their voyage, without regard to the particular date of their departure from port,
whether immediately before or subsequently to the commencement of the war or.the issuing of the proclamation.
The District Judge, before whom .several cases were tried
together, held that the date of the commencement of the war
(April 21) was the date intended by the Executive; that as
the proclamation of the 22d of -April gave thirty days to neutral vessels found in blockdded ports, it was but reasonable to
consider that the same number of days, commencing at the
outbteak of the war, should be allowed so as to bring it to the
21st of May, the day named; that although a retrospective

ITIE BUENA VENTURA.
Opinion of the Court.

effect is not usually given to statutes, yet the question always
is, what was the intention of the legislature?
He also said that "the intention of the Executive was to
fully recognize the recent practice of 'civilized nations, and
not to sanction or permit the seizure of the vessels of the
enemy within the harbors of the United States at the time
of the commencement of the war, or to permit them to escape
from ports to be seized immediately upon entering upon the
high seas." (See preamble to proclamation.)
In the Buena Yentura, the case at bar, the District Judge
held that her case "clearly does not come within the language
of the proclamation."
It is true the proclamation did not in so many words provide that vessels which had loaded in a port of the United
States and sailed therefrom before the commencement of the
war should be entitled to continue their voyage, but we think
that those vessels are clearly within the intention of the proclamation under the liberal construction we are bound to give
to that document.
An intention to include vessels of this class in the exemption from capture seems to us a necessary consequence of the
language used in the proclamation when interpreted according to the known views of this Government on the subject
and which it is to be presumed were the views of the Executive. The vessel when captured had violated no law, she had
sailed from Ship Island after having obtained written permission, in accordance with the laws of the United States, to
proceed to'Norfolk in Virginia, and the permission had been
signed by the deputy collector of the port and the fees therefor paid by the ship. She had a cargo of lumber, loaded but
a short time before the commencement of the war, and she
left the port but forty-eight hours prior to that event. The
language of the proclamation certainly does not preclude the
exemption of this vessel, and it is not an unnatural or forced
construction of the fourth clause to say that it includes this
case.
The omission of any date in this clause, upon which the
vessel must be in a port of the United States, and prior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which the exemption would not be allowed, is certainly very
strong evidence that such a date was not material, so long as
the loading and departure from our ports were accomplished
before the expiration of May 21. It is also evident from the
language used that the material concern was to fix a time in
the future, prior to the expiration of which vessels of the
character named might sail from our ports and be exempt
from capture. The particular time at which the loading of
cargoes and sailing from our ports should be accomplished
was obviously unimportant, provided it was prior to the time
specified.

Whether it was before or after the commencement

of the war, would be entirely immaterial. This seems to us
to be the intention of the Executive, derived from reading
the fourth clause with reference to the general rules of interpretation already spoken of, and we think there is no language
in the proclamation which precludes the giving effect to such
intention. Its purpose was to protect innocent merchantmen
of the enemy who had been trading in our ports from capture,
provided they sailed from such ports before a certain named
time in the future, and that purpose would be wholly unaffected by the fact of a sailing prior to the war. That fact
was*immaterial to tlhe scheme of the proclamation, gathered
-from all its language.
We do not assert that the clause would apply to a vessel
which had left a port of the United States prior to the commencement of the war and had arrived at a foreign port and
there discharged her cargo, and had then left for another
foreign port prior to May 21. The instructions to United
States ships, contained in the fourth clause, to permit the
vessels "to continue their voyage" would limit the operation
of the clause to those vessels that were still on their original
voyage from the United States, and had taken on board their
cargo (if any they had) at a port of the United States before
the expiration of the term mentioned. The exemption would
probably not apply to such a case as The Phkenix, (Spink's
Prize Cases, 1). That case arose out of the English Order in
Council, made at the commencement of the Crimean war.
The vessel had s'iled from an English port in the middle of

THE BUENA VENTURA.
Opinion of the Court.

February, 1854, with a cargo, bound for Copenhagen, and
having reached that port and discharged her cargo by the
middle of March, she had sailed therefrom on the 10th of
April, bound to a foreign port, and was captured on the 12th of
April while proceeding on such voyage. The Order in Council
was dated the 29th of March, 1854, and provided that "1Russian merchant vessels, in any ports or places within her Majesty's dominions, shall be allowed until the tenth day of May
next, six weeks from the date hereof, for loading their cargoes
and departing from such ports or places," etc. The claim of
exemption was made on the ground that the vessel had been
in an English port, and although she sailed therefrom in the
middle of February to Copenhagen and had there discharged
her cargo, before the Order in Council was promulgated, yet
it was still urged that she was entitled to exemption from
capture. The court held the claim was not well founded, and
that it could not by any latitude of construction hold a vessel
to have been in an English port on the 29th of March, which
on that day was lying in the port of Copenhagen, having at
that time discharged the cargo which she had taken from
the English port. It is true the court took the view that the
vessel must at all events have been in an English port on the
29th of March in order to obtain exemption, and if not there
on that day, the vessel did not come within the terms of the
order and was not exempt from capture. From the language
of the opinion in that case it would seem not. only that a vessel
departing the day before the 29th of March would not come
within the bxemption, but that a vessel arriving the day after
the 29th, and departing before the 10th of May following,
would also fail to do so; that the vessel must have been in an
English port on the very day named, and if it dleparted the
day before or arrived the day after, it was not covered by*the
order.
The French Government also, on the outbreak of the Crimean -war, decreed a delay of six weeks, beginning on the date
of the decree, to Russian merchant vessels in which to leave
French ports. Russia issued the same kind of a decree, and
other nations have at times made the same provisions. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed that they confine the exemption to vessels that are
actually within the ports of the nation at the date of issuing
the decree or order.
We are not inclined to put so narrow a construction upon
the language used in this proclamation. The interpretation
which we have given to it, while it may be more liberal than
the other, is still one which may properly be indulged in.
If this vessel, instead of sailing on the 19th, had not sailed
until the 21st of April, the court below says she would have
been exempt from capture. In truth, she was from her character and her actual employment just as much the subject of
liberal treatmeht, and was as equitably entitled to an exemption, when sailing on the 19th, as she would have been had she
waited until the 21st. No fact had occurred since her sailing
which altered her case in principle from the case of a vessel
which had been in port on, though sailing after, th~e 21st. To
attribute an intention on the part of the Executive to exempt
a vessel if she sailed on or after the 21st of April, and before
the 21st of May, and to refuse such exemption to a vessel in
precisely the same situation, only sailing before the 21st, would,
as we think, be without reasonable justification. It may safely
be affirmed that he neVer had any such distinction in mind and
never intended it to exist. There is nothing in the nature of
the two cases calling for a difference in their treatment. They
both alike called for precisely the same rule, and if there be
language in the clause or proclamation from which an inference can be drawn favorable to the exemption, and none which
precludes it, we are bound to hbld that the exemption is given.
We think the language of the proclamation does permit the
inference and that there is none which precludes it.
We are aware of no adjudications cf our own court as to the
meaning to .begiven to words similar to those contained in
the proclamation, and it may be that a step in advance is now
taken upon this subject. Where, however, the words are reasonably capable of an interpretation which shall include a vessel of this description in the exemption from capttire, we are
not averse to adopting it, even though this court may be the
first to do so. If the Executive should hereafter be inclined

TEE BUENA VENTURA.
Opinion of the Court.

to take the other view, the language of his proclamation could be
so altered as to leave no doubt of that intention, and it would
be the duty of this court to be guided and controlled by it.
Deciding as we do in regard to the fourth clause, it becomes
unnecessary to examine the other grounds for a reversal discussed at the bar.
The question of costs then arises. We had occasion in The
Olinde Rodrigues, 1741 U. S. 510, to examine that question
in relation to the existence of probable cause for making the
capture. In that case it was held that such probable cause
did exist, and although the facts therein proved did not commend the vessel to the favorable consideration of the court,
yet upon a careful review of -the entire evidence we held that
we were not compelled to proceed to the extremity of condemning the vessel. Restitution was, therefore, awarded, but
without damages. -Payment of the costs and expenses incident to her custody. and preservation, and of all costs in the
case except the fees of counsel, were imposed upon the ship.
In-this case, but for the proclamation of April 26, the ship
would have been liable to seizure and condemnation as enemy's
property. At the time of seizure, however, (April 22,) that proclamation had not been issued, and hence there was probable
cause for her seizure, although the vessel, was herself entirely
without fault: * The subsequent issuing of the proclamation
covering the case of a vessel situated as was this one took away
the right to condemn which otherwise would have existed.
Thus, at the time of seizure, both parties, the capturing and the
captured ship, were without fault, and while we reverse the judgment of condemnation and award restitution, we think it should
be without damages or costs in favor of the vessel captured.
The ship having been sold, the moneys arisingfrom.the sale
must bepaid to the claimant without the deduction of.any
costs arising-in the proceeding, but after .deducting the
expenses properly incident to her custody and preservation up to the time of her sale, and it is so ordered.

Tim CmnF JUsTIcE and MR. JUSTICE GRAY and MR. J-usT
dissented.

Y0XENNA

