OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

BARDES v. HAWARDEN FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 429. Submitted December 20,1699. -Decided December 22, 1899.
The decision in McLish v. .off, 141 U. S. 661, that appeals or writs of error
in cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was in issue, can only
be taken directly to this court after final judgment, and the decision
in United States v. Bider, 163 U. S. 132, that review by appeal, writ of
error and- otherwise must be as prescribed by the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, and that the use of a certificate was limited by
it to a certificate by the courts below, after final judgment, of questions
made as to their own jurisdiction, and to the certificate by the Circuit
Courts of Appeals of questions of law, in relation to which the advice of
this court is sought as therein provided, are applicable to cases arising
under the bankruptcy act of July 1, 1898, c. 541; and, as this case has
not gone to judgment, the certificate must be dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. CZarence A. Brandenburg, .Mr. William F. Lohr, XM.
Renry C. Gardiner, .Mr. F ederick W. Lohr, -Mr. Deloss C.
Shull and Xr. Wiliam H. Farnswort for plaintiff.
.f'.
Tohn .utchinson
defendant.

and MAr. Wlliam Milchrist for

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuianR delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a certificate from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Iowa. It appears therefrom that a bill of complaint was filed in that court sitting
in bankruptcy by Bardes, trustee of the estate of Walker,
who had been therein adjudged a bankrupt on his own petition, seeking to set aside the transfer of a stock of goods by
the bankrupt, and to compel defendants to account for the
goods or their proceeds, because the transfer was in fraud
of the provisions of the bankruptcy act, and of the creditors of the bank; that defendants interposed a demurrer to

BARDES v. H1AWARDEN FIRST NATIONAL BANK. 527
Opinion of the Court.

the bill on the ground that the court could not take jurisdiction of the case, and that thereupon it was dertified that
the court; "desiring to obtain the opinion and instruction of
the Supreme Court of the United States for.its guidance in the
premises, hereby certifies to the Supreme Court for its consideration and determination the following questions," and
four questions were thereupon propounded. And it was further ordered that the transcript transmitted to this court
should contain the bill, the demurrer and the certificate.
By the twenty-fourth section of the bankruptcy act of July
1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, the Supreme Court of the United
States, the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and the Supreme Courts
of the Territories were invested with "appe l l a te jurisdiction
of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the
courts of bankruptcy from which they have appellate jurisAnd it was also provided, ยง 25, d,
diction in other cases."
that "controversies may be certified to the Supreme Court
of the United States from other courts of the United States,
and the former court may exercise jurisdiction thereof and
issue writs of certiorari pursuant to the provisions of the
United States laws now in force or such as may be hereafter
enacted."
By the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, it was provided that appeals or writs of
error might be taken from the District Courts or frdm the
Circuit Courts direct to this court, among -other cases, in
any case in which the jurisdiction of the' court was in issue,
but that in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone should
be certified from the court below for decision; by the sixth
section, that in cases made final in the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, those courts might at any time certify to this court
any questions or propositions of law concerning which they
desired instruction for the proper decision of the cases, and
this court might answer the questions, or might require the
whole record and cause to be sent up for consideration; and
also that in respect of cases so made final, it should be competent for this court to require by certidrari or otherwise any
such case to be certified to this court for review and deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

mination with the same power and authority as if it had been
brought here by appeal or writ of error.
It was early held under that act, 2.fcfiisk v. Roff, 141 U. S.
661, that appeals or writs of error in cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was in issue could only be taken directly
to this court after final judgment; and subsequently in United
States v. Rider, 163 U. S. 132, that review by appeal, writ
of error, or otherwise, must be as prescribed by that act, and
that the use of certificate was limited by it to the certificate
by the courts below, after final judgment, of questions made
as to their own jurisdiction, and to the certificate by the
Circuit Courts of Appeals of questions of law in relation to
which the advice of this court was sought as therein provided. We there held that the nct of March 3, 1891, covered
the whole subject-matter, and furnished the exclusive rule in
respect of appellate jurisdiction, on appeal, writ of error or
certificate.
The bankruptcy act has made no change in this regard, and
as this case has not gone to judgment, the certificate must be
.Dimissed.

CUMMING v. RICHMOiND COUNTY BOARD OF
EDUCATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF RICHMOND COUNTM,

GEORGIA.

No. 164. Argued October 80, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1699.

The plaintiffs in error complained that the Board of Education used the
funds in its hands to assist in maintaining a high school for white children, without providing a similar school for colored children. The substantial relief asked for was an injunction. The state court did not deem
the action of the Board of Education in suspending temporarily and for
economic reasons the high school for colored children a sufficient reason
why the defendant should be restrained by injunction from maintaining
an existing high school for white children. It rejected the suggestion
that the Board proceeded in bad faith or had abused the discretion with
which it was iuvested by the statute under which it proceeded, or had

