NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. 6. CONROY.

323

Syllabus.

have such a concrete form that we see no reason why a State
may not declare that if found within its limits they shall be
subject to taxation.
It follows from these considerations that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversedand the case
remandedfor further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD COMPANTY v.
CONIROY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
FIRST CIRCUIT.

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

'o.42. Argued April 8, 4, 1899. -Decided December 4, 1S99.
The negligence of a conductor of a freight train is the negligence of a fellow
servant of a brakeman on the same train, who was killed by an accident
occurring through that negligence.
The negligence of such conductor is not the negligence of the vice or substituted principal or representative of the railroad company running the
tfain, and for which that corporation is responsible.
The general rule of law is that one who enters the service of another takes
upon himself the ordinary risks of the negligent acts of his fellow servants in the course of the employment.
An employer is not liable for an injury to one employ6 occasioned by the
negligence of another engaged in the same general undertaking; it is not
necessary that the servants should be engaged in the same operation or
particular work; it is enough, to bring the case within the general
rule of exemption, if they are in the employment of the same master,
engaged in the same common enterprise, both employed to perform
duties tending to accomplish the same general purposes, or, in other
words, if the services of each in his particular sphere or department
are directed to the accomplishment of the same general end; and accordingly, in the present case, upon the facts stated, the conductor and the
injured brakeman are to be considered fellow servants within the rule.
While the opinion in Chicago, Milwaukee & St. PaulBailroad Co. v. Boss, 112
U. S. 377, contains a lucid exposition of many of the established rules
regulating the relations between masters and servants, and particularly

OCTOBER TERIt, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
as respects the duties of railroad companies to their various employ~s,
it went too far in holding that a conductor of a freight train is, ipso facto,
a vice principal of the company; and in so far as it is to be understood
as laying down, as a rule of law to govern in the trial of actions against
railroad companies, that the conductor, merely from his position as such,
is a vice principal, whose negligence is that of the company, it must be
deemed to have been overruled, in effect if not in terms, in the subsequent
case of Baltimore & Ohio Railroadv. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368.

THis was an action against a railroad corporation by a

brakeman in its employ to recover damages for a personal
injury caused by the negligence of the conductor of one of
its trains.
The facts in this case, as stated in the certificate of the Circuit Court of Appeals, were as follows:
"On the fifteenth day of December, 1894, a freight train of
the defendant company, drawn by a steam locomotive, and
carrying an engineer, a fireman, three brakemen and a conductor, set out from Worcester, in the Commonwealth of
M assachusetts, for the city of Providence, in the State of
Rhode Island. The train, which consisted of the locomotive
and tender, thirteen or fourteen freight cars, and a caboose
car, was heavily loaded with freight. The train left Worcester at about 'T.15 P.m. and proceeded on its way without accident, until when at a point on the railroad in the State of
Rhode Island, away from telegraphic communication and not
at a station, and distant from Providence about sixteen miles,
the engineer discovered by the motion and behavior of the
locomotive that the train had broken apart. He immediately
gave signals with the whistle to indicate to the trainmen upon
the rear portion of the train that it was broken off, and continued to repeat those signals, which consisted of three rapid
blasts of the whistle with very brief intervals between the
different threes, while the locomotive and the one car which
remained connected ran three quarters of a mile. The locomotive with the connected car ran about two and three
quarters miles when the engineer, not being able to see
anything of the separated part of the train, and supposing
that his signals had been heard and its advance stopped,
slowed up the engine preparatory to sending the fireman back

NEW ENGLAN D RAILROAD CO. v. OITROY.

325

Statement of the Case.

with the lantern and to take steps for restoring the connection of the parts of the train. Before speed had been so
reduced that the fireman could alight from the train, the
rear portion was discovered close at hand and approaching
at great speed. The fireman gave notice of this fact and a
signal for the locomotive to go ahead, but before it could gain
,speed to get away a collision between the two parts of the
*traintook place, and one Gregory, a brakeman, who was on
the top of the car still attached, to the engine, was thrown
from the car by the shock and instantly killed.
"The three brakemen on the train were a head, a middle,
and a rear brakeman. Gregory was the head brakeman, and
at once, on discovery of the separation of the train, went to
the top of the only car left with the engine. "The conductor
and the middle and rear brakemen had been riding in the
caboose car at the rear end of the train, and did not hear the
warning signals which the engineer gave with the whistle,
nor know that the train had broken until the collision, but
remained all the time in the caboose. The night was cold
and clear. The 'ccident was near midnighl.
"The negligence complained of consisted in the alleged failure of the conductor in control of the men and in charge of
the train, in view of the character of the night, the character
of the road in respect to grades and curves, the speed at
which the train was run, and the liability of the train to part
asunder at that place, to properly watch and supervise its
movements, and the fact that he, in the full knowledge that
the rear and middle brakemen were in the caboose, away from
their brakes, permitted them to remain there, and failed to
order them to the brakes."
The jury were instructed: "The conductor of the train,
under the rules laid down by the rules of the Supreme Court
of the United States, is in a peculiar and special condition.
The conductor of the train, as I understand the theory of the
rule of the Supreme Court of the'United States, is, in a certain sense, between stations, at least, is in a certain sense like
the master of a ship on a voyage; he is beyond the reach of
orders when running his-train between stations;. and there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

fore as a matter of necessity, as a matter of public policy, I
suppose, be must be held to stand in the place of the corporation itself. . . . If you find in this particular case, from
the evidence in the case and such common knowledge as jurymen are entitled to use, that by the rules of this road
the conductor gave directions to the people who worked on
the train, gave directions to start the train, gave directions to
stop the train, gave directions as to the location and position
of the different men on the. train, and also had the general
management of the train and control over it when running
between stations, then I say to you, gentlemen, that he for
this case represents the company, and if injuries resulted from
his negligent acts the company is responsible."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed
damages in the sum of four thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars.
The defendant brought the case by writ of error to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
And, upon consideration of the case, after full argument,
the judges of that court desired the instructions of the
'Supreme Court upon the following questions of law arising
on the facts as before stated:
1st. Whether the negligence of the conductor was the negligence of a fellow servant of the deceased brakeman ?
2d. Whether the negligence of the conductor was the negligence of its vice or substituted principal or representative, for
which the corporation is responsible?
.fr. Frank A. Farnhamfor plaintiff in error.
rfr.James E. Cotter for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE SRmAs, after making the above statement,
delivered 'the opinion of the court.
It may be doubted whether the questions of law presented
to us are really raised by the facts as certified. N o facts are
stated from which the jury might have found that, at the

REW ENGLAND RAILROAD 00. v. CONROY.

327

Opinion of the Court.

time and place of the accident, there was any specia reason
why the brakemen should have been: ordered by the conductor
to take their places at the brakes, and therefore it is by no
means evident that there was any dereliction of duty on the
part of the conductor.
Nor is it clear that the negligence of the conductor, if negligence it was, in permitting the brakemen to ride in the
caboose, was the proximate cause of Gregory's injuries.
When the train parted the engineer had charge and control
of the locomotive and attached cars, and it would seem to
have been his duty, as it was within his power, to have prevented the subsequent collision -of the detached parts. And,
in that event, the case would be ruled by Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, where it was held that
the engineer and fireman of a locomotive engine, running
alone on a railroad and without any train attached, are fellow
servants, so as to preclude the latter from recovering from the
company for injuries caused by the negligence of the former.
However, waiving these suggestions, and proceeding on the
assumptions of the courts below that it was the duty of the conductor, at the time and place of the accident, to have the brakemen on the top of the cars where they could apply the hand
brakes,. and that his failure to do so was the proximate causb
of the injury-to the plaintiff's intestate resulting from the
subsequent collision of the detached portions of the train, we
meet the question, Would, in such a state of facts, the company be liable to the injured brakeman for the negligence o
the conductor?
There is a general rule of law, established by a great preponderance of judicial authority in the English and in the
state and Federal courts, that one who enters the service of
another takes upon himself the ordinary risks of the negligent
acts of his fellow servants in the course of the employment.
But there have been conflicting views expressed in the application of this rule in cases where the employer is a railroad
company, or other large organization, employing a number of
servants engaged in distinct and separate departments of service; and our present inquiry is whether the relation between

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the conductor and the brakeman of a freight train is that of
fellow servants, within the rule, or whether the conductor is
to be deemed a vice principal, representing the railroad company in such a sense that his negligence is that of the company, the common employer.
Unless we are constrained to accept and follow the decision
of this court in the case of 07hicago, .Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Co. v. Ross, 112 U. S. 377, we have no hesitation in
holding, both upon principle and authority, that the employer
is not liable for an injury to one employs occasioned by the
negligence of another engaged in the same general undertaking; that it is not necessary that the servants should be
engaged in the same operation or particular work; that it is
enough, to bring the case within the general rule of exemption, if they are in the employment of the same master,
engaged in the same common enterprise, both employed to
perform duties tending to accomplish the same general purposes, or, in other words, if the services of each in his particular
sphere or department are directed to the accomplishment of
the same general end; and that, accordingly, in the present
case, upon the facts stated, the conductor and the injured
brakeman are to be considered fellow servants within the rule.
We shall refer to a few of the authorities which establish
these principles. .l'arwell v. Boston & Worcester Rail-road,4
Met. 49, is the leading case in Masgachusetts. The question
was thus stated by Chief Justice Shaw:
"This is an action of new impression in our courts, and
involves a principle of great importance. It presents a case,
where two persons are in the service and employment of one
company, whose business it is to construct and maintain a

railroad, and to employ their trains of cars to carry persons
and merchandise for hire. They are appointed and employed
by the same company to perform separate duties and services,
all tending to the accomplishment of one and the same purpose - that of the safe and rapid transmission of the trains;
and they are paid for their respective services according to
the nature of their respective duties, and the labor and skill
required for their proper performance. The question is,

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

329

Opinion of the Court.

whether, for damages sustained by one of the persons so
employed, by means of the carelessness and negligence of
another, the party injured has a remedy against the common
employer."
After discussing the principles of law and reason applicable
to the case, the Chief Justice proceeded:
"In applying these principles to the present case, it appears
that the plaintiff was employed by the defendants as an engineer, at the rate of wages usually paid in that employment,
being a higher rate than the plaintiff had before received as a
machinist. It was a voluntary undertaking on his part, with
a full knowledge of the risks incident to the employment,and
the loss was sustained by means of an ordinary casualty,
caused by the negligence of another servant of the company.
Under these circumstances the loss must be deemed to be the
result of a pure accident, like those to which all men, in all
employments, and at all times, are more or less exposed; and,
like similar losses from accidental causes, it must rest where
it first fell, unless the plaintiff has a remedy against the person actually in default; of which we give no opinion.
"It was strongly pressed in the argument, that although this
might be so, where two or more servants are employed in the
same department of duty, where each can exert some influence
over the conduct of the other, and thus to some extent provide
for his own security; yet that it could not apply, where two
or more are employed in different departments of duty, at a
distance from each other, and where one can in no degree control or influence the conduct of another. But we think this is
founded upon a supposed distinction on which it would be
extremely difficult to establish a practical rule. When the
object to be accomplished is one and the same and the employers are the same, and the several persons employed derive
their authority and their compensation from the same source,
it would be extremely difficult to distinguish what constitutes
one department and what a distinct department of duty. It
would vary with the circumstances of every case. If it were
made to depend upon the nearness or distance of the persons
from each other, the question would immediately arise, how

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

near or how distant must they be to be in the same or different departments? In a blacksmith's shop persons working in
the same building at different fires may be quite independent
of each other, though only a few feet distance. In a ropewalk
several may be at work on the same piece of cordage, at the
same time, at many hundred feet from each other and beyond
the reach of sight and voice, and yet acting together.
"Besides, it appears to us, that the argument rests: upon an
assumed principle of responsibility which does not exist. The
master, in the case supposed, is not exempt from liability, because the servant has better means of providing for his safety,
when he is employed in immediate connection with those from
whose negligence he might suffer; but because the implied
contract of the master does not extend to indemnify the servant against the negligence of any one but himself; and he
is not liable in tort, as for the negligence of his servpnt, because
the person suffering does not stand toward him in the relation
of a stranger, but is one whose rights are regulated by contract,
express or implied. The exemption of the master, therefore,
from liability for the negligence of a fellow servant does not
depend exclusively upon the consideration, that the servant
has better means to provide for his own safety, but upon other
grounds. Hence the separation of the employment into different departments cannot create that liability, when it does not
arise from express or implied contract, or from a responsibility
created by law to third persons and strangers, for the negligence of a servant.

.

.

. The responsibility which one is

under for the negligence of his servant, in the conduct of his
business, toward third persons, is founded on another and distinct principle .from that of implied contract, and stands on its
own reasons of policy. The same redsons of policy, we think,
limit this responsibility to the case of strangers, for whose
security alone it is established. Like considerations of policy
and general expediency forbid the extension of the principle,
so far as to warrant a servant in maintaining an action against
his employer for an indemnity which we think was not contemplated in the nature and terms of the employment, and
which, if established, would not conduce to the general
good."

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

331

Opinion of the Court.

In Holden v. Fitchburg Railroad Co., .129 Mass. 268, *hich
was a case in which damages were claimed by a person
employed to act as a laborer in the removal of a mass of
earth overhanging the defendant's railroad,.on the alleged
.ground of negligence on the part of a roadmaster who had
charge of that portion of the railroad, the case of Farwell v.
B. & W. Railroad,4 Met. 49, was fbllowed; and it was held,
on*principles established in that and subsequent cases, that it
makes no difference that the servant whose negligence causes
the injury is a submanager or foreman, of higher grade or
greater authority than the plaintiff; and, in discussing the
casds, Chief Justice Gray cited the case of Wilom v.
erry/,
L. R. 1 H. L. Sc. 326, 332, 334-, 335, 336, and some of the observations made by the justices who delivered judgments therein
in the House of Lords. Thus Lord Chancellor Cairns said:
"1The master is not and cannot be liable to his servant unless
there be negligence on the part of the master in that in which
he, the master, has contracted or undertaken with his servant
to do. The master has not contracted or undertaken to execute
in person.the work connected with his business." "But what the
master is, in my opinion, bound to his servant to do, in the event
of his not personally superintending and directing the work, is
to select proper and competent persons to do so, and to furnish
them with adequate materials and resources *for the work.
When he has done this he has, in my opinion, done all that he
is bound to do. And if the persons so selected are guilty of negligence, this is not the negligence of the master." Lord Colonsay said- "I think that there are duties incumbent on our
masters with reference to the safety of laborers in mines and
factories, on the fulfilment of which the laborers are entitled
to rely, and for the failure in which the master may be responsible. A total neglect to provide any system of ventilation' for
the mine may be of thdt character. Culpable negligence in
supervision, if the master takes the supervision on himself, or,
where he devolves it on others, the heedless selection of unskilful or incompetent persons for the duty; or the failure to
provide or supply the means of providing proper machinery
or materials may furnish ground of liability."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

And see likewise the case of Clifford v. Old Colony Railroad, 141 Mass. 564, in which it was held that a section hand
in the employ of a railroad corporation cannot maintain an
action against the corporation for personal injuries caused by a
collision -between a hand car on which he was at work and an
engine of a train run by servants of the corporation if the accident was occasioned by the negligence of the section boss and
the engineer of the train.
In Sherman v. Rochester & Syracuse Railroad,17 N. Y. 153,
it was held by the New York Court of Appeals that a servant
who sustains an injury from the negligence of a superior agent
engaged in the same general business, can maintain no action
against their common employer, although he was subject to the
control of such. superior agent, and that, accordingly, a brakeman upon a railroad whose duty it is not to apply the brakes
except when directed by the engineer or conductor cannot maintain an action against their common employer for an injury
resulting from the culpable speed at which the engineer and conductor ran the train. And this appears to be the settled doctrine
in the State of New York. Besel v. N. T. C. & 1T R. Rail'oad, 70 N. Y. 171, 173; De Forest v. Jewett, 88 N. Y. 264.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has held, in numerous
cases, and it is settled law in that State, that a fellow servant,
within the meaning of the rule, is any one serving the same
master, and under his control, whether equal, inferior or superior to the injured person in his grade or standing, and the fact
that the injured servant was under the control of the servant
by whose negligence the injury was caused makes no difference.
Weger v. PennsylvaniaRailroad Co., 55 Penn. St. 460; Lehigh
Valley Coal Co. v. Jones, 86 Penn. St. 432.
In Columbu.s & IndianapolisCentralRailway v. Arnold, 31
Indiana, 174, the Supreme Court of Indiana held, reversing
some previous cases to the contrary, that it is the duty of a
yailroad company to use all reasonable care in the proper construction of its road, and in supplying it with the necessary
equipment, andi in the selection of competent subordinates to
supervise, inspect, repair and'regulate th machinery, and to
regulate and control the operation of the road; and that if

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

333

Opinion of the Court.

these duties are performed with care by the company, and
one of the persons so employed is guilty of negligence by
which an injury occurs to another, it is not the negligence of
the master, and the company is not responsible.
Without following further the history of this subject in the
courts of the several States, we may state that, generally, the
doctrine there upheld is that of the cases herein previously
cited, except in the courts of the States of Ohio, Kentucky
and perhaps others, in which the rule seems- to obtain that
while the master is not liable to his servant for any injury
committed by a servant of equal degree in the same sphere of
employment, unless some negligence is fixed on the master
personally, yet that he is liable for the gross negligence of a
servant superior in rank to the person injured, and is also
liable for the ordinary negligence of a servant not engaged in
the same department of service.
Leaving the decisions of the state courts, and coming to
those of this court, we find the latter to be in substantial harmony with the current of authority in the stat6 and English
courts. From this statement the case of Chicago, -Milwaukee
& St. Paul Railroadv. Ross, 112 U. S. 377, must, perhaps,
be excepted, and to it we shall revert after an examination of
our other cases.
Randall v. Baltimore c Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478,
was the case of an action in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of West Virginia against a railroad
corporation by a brakeman in its employ for personal injuries
received, while working a switch, by being struck by one of
its locomotive engines; and it was unanimously held by this
court, affirming the court belbw, that the plaintiff could not
recover, althodgh the injury was occasioned by the negligence
of the engineman in running his engine too fast, or not giving
due notice of its approach. In the course of the opinion,
which -was pronounced by Mr. Justice Gray, he said:
"The general rule of law is now firmly established that one
who enters the service of another takes upon himself the ordinary risks of the negligent acts of his fellow seryants in the
course of the employment. This court has not hitherto had

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

occasion to decide who are fellow servants within the rule.
. . . Nor is it necessary, for the purposes of this case, to
undertake to lay down a precise and exhaustive definition of
the general rule in this respect, or to weigh the conflicting
views which have prevailed in the courts of the several
States; because persons standing in such a relation to one
another.as did the plaintiff and the engineman of the other
train are fellow servants, according to the very great preponderance of judicial authority in this country, as well as the
uniform course of decision in the House of Lords, and in the
English and Irish courts, as is clearly shown by the cases cited
in the margin. They are employed and paid by the same
master. The duties of the tivo bring them to work at the
same place at the same time, so that the negligence of the one
in doing his work may injure the other in doing his work.
Their separate services have an immediate common objectthe moving of the trains."
Northern Pacific Railroad v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 'was
a case.wherein it appeared that a brakeman suffered an injury
by reason of the fact that the brakes which he was called
upon to apply were broken and out of order, and it was held,
_per Mr. Justice Field, that it was the duty of the company to
furnish sufficient and safe materials, machinery or other
means by which service is to be performed, and to keep them
in repair and order, and that as this duty had not been fulfilled the plaintiff was entitled to recover. There was another
question in that case as to the import and effect of a statute
of Dakota, in which Territory the accident took place, providing that "an employer is not bound to indemnify his
employ, for losses suffered by the latter in consequence of
the ordinary risks of the business ihL which he is employed,
nor in consequence of the negligence of another person
employed by the same employer in the same general 'business,
unless he has neglected to use ordinary care in the selection
of the culpable employS," and that "an employer must, in all
cases, indemnify his employ6 for losses caused by the former's
want of ordinary care."
It was held, by a majority of the court, that these provisions

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

335

Opinion of the Court.

of the Dakota code expressed the general law that an employer
is responsible for the injury to his employ~s caused by his own
want of ordinary care; that his selection of defective machinery, which is to be moved by steam power, is of itself evidence
of a want of ordinary care, and allowing it to remain out of
repair, when its condition is brought to his notice, or by proper
inspection might be known, is culpable negligence; that the
cars, in that case, had been defective for years; that the brakes
were all worn out, and their condition had been called to the
attention of the yard master, who had control of theta while in
the yard, and might have been ascertained, upon proper inspection, by the officer or agent of the company charged with the
duty of keeping them in repair, yet nothing was done to repair
either brakes or cars; that, in such circumstances, the company
had not exercised ordinary care to keep the cars and brakes in
good condition; and that, therefore, under the provisions of the
statute, the company was bound to indemnify the plaintiff. The
minority of the court considered that the case was governed by
the local statute, and that the statute, properly construed,
relieved the employer, under the facts of the case, from liability to the injured employ6. They declined to express any
opinion upon the question of liability apart from the statute.
Quebec Steam8hip Co. v. .Aerchant, 133 U. S. 375, was 'an
action brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Nqew York by one Merchant, who was
employed as a stewardess of the steamship Bermuda, belonging
to the defendant company. It appeared that the ship's company
consisted of thirty-two persons, divided into three classes of
servants, called three departments- the deck department, the
engineers' department, and the steward's department. The
captain, the first and second officers, the purser, the carpenter
and the sailors were in the deck department; the engineers, the
firemen and the stokers were in the engineers' department;
the steward, the waiters, the cooks, the porter and the stewardess were in the steward's department. At the close of the
evidence the defendant's counsel requested the court to charge
the jury to find a verdict for the defendant on the ground that
the injury sustained by the plaintiff was occasioned, if there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

any negligence, by the negligence of a fellow servant. This
the court refused to do. There was a verdict for the plaintiff,
and the case was brought to this court. Here it was contended
that, as the carpenter whose negligence was alleged as the-cause
of the accident, was in the deck department, and the stewardess
in the steward's department, those'were different departments
in such a sense that the carpenter was not a fellow servant with
the stewardess. But Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the
entire court, said:
"The injuries to the plaintiff were caused solely by the negligence of one or the other of two fellow servants who were in
a common employment with her, and there was no violation or
omission of duty on the part of the employer contributing to
such injuries. Neither of her fellow servants stood in such relation to her or to the work done by her, and in the course of
which her injuries were sustained, as to make his negligence
that of the employer. The case, therefore, falls within the well
settled rule, as to which it is unnecessary to cite cases, which
exempts an employer from liability for injuries to a servant by
another servant, and does not fal.l within any exception to that
rule which destroys the exemption of the employer when his
own negligence contributes to the injury, or when the other
servant occupies such a relation to the injured party or to his
employment, in the course of which her injury was received,
as to make the negligence of such servant the negligence of
the employer."
The next notable case is that of Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
v. Batgh, 149 U. S. 368, in which it was held that an engineer
and fireman of a locomotive, running alone and without any
train attached, were fellow servants of the company, so as
to preclude the latter from recovering from the company for
injuries caused by the negligence of the former. In the course
of the opinion Mr. Justice Brewer said:
It may safely be said that this court has never recognized
the proposition that the mere control of one servant over
another in doing a particular piece of work destroys the relation of fellow servants and puts an end to the master's liability.
On the contrary, all the cases proceed on the ground of some

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

337

Opinion of the Court.

breach of positive duty resting upon the master, or upon the
idea of superintendence or control of a department.. It has
ever been affirmed that the employ6 assumes the ordinary
risks incident to the service; and, as we have seen, it is as
obvious that there is risk from the negligence of one in immediate control as from one simply a coworker. That the running of an engine by itself is not a separate branch of service
seems perfectly clear. The fact is, all the locomotive engines

of a railroad company are in the one department, the operating
department; and those employed in running them' whether
as engineers or firemen, are engaged in a common employment
and are fellow servants."
. We shall have occasion to revert to this case when we come
to consider the decision in Chicago, 3filwaukee & St. Paul
Railroad v. Bow.

In Northern Pacifc Railroadv. Hambly, 154: U. S. 349, it
was held that a common day laborer in the employ of a railroad company, who, while working for the company under
the order and direction of a section boss or foreman, on a
culvert on the line of the company's road, receives an injury
by and through the negligence of the conductor and of the
engineer in moving and operating a passenger train upon the
company's road, is a fellow servant with such engineer and
such conductor, in such a sense as exempts the railroad company from liability for the injury so inflicted ; and Mr. Justice
Brown, in delivering the opinion of the court, observed:
"To hold the principal liable whenever there are gradations of rank between the person receiving and the person
causing the injury, or whenever they are employed in different
departments of the same general service, would result in frittering away the whole doctrine of fellow service. Cases arising between persons engaged together in the same identical
service, as, for instance, between brakemen of the same train,
or two seamen on the same ship, are comparatively rare. In
a large majority of cases there is some distinction either in
respect to grade of service, or in the nature of the employments. Courts, however, have been reluctant to recognize
these distinctions unless the superiority of the person causing
VOL. cLxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM,. 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the injurywas such as to put him rather in the category of
principal than of agent, as, for example, the superintendent of
a factory or railway, and the employments were so far different that, although paid by the same master, the two servants
were brought no further in contact with each other than as if
they had been employed by different principals."
in Central Railroad Co. v. -Yegan, 160 U. S. 259, Baltimore

& Ohio Railroad Co. v. Baugh was approved and followed in
respect to its statement as to what constitutes a viceprincipal.
In Northern Pacifi Railroad Co. v. Peterson, 162 U. S.
346, an action had been brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota by Peterson to
recover damages against the railroad company, alleged to
have been caused by the negligence of the foreman of a
gang of laborers, engaged in putting in repair sections of the
railroad. The foreman had power to hire and discharge the
hands who composed the gang, and had exclusive charge of
their direction and management in all matters connected with
their employment. The plaintiff"recovered a verdict, and the
judgment-of the Circuit Court thereon was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. The cause
was brought to this court, and the judgments of the courts
below were reversed. The opinion of this court was by Mr.
Justice Peckham, in which he reviewed the authorities, and
expressed the following conclusions:
"The general rule is, that those entering into the service
of a common master become thereby engaged ina common
service and are fellow servants, and, prima faoie, the common master is not liable for the negligence of one of his servants which has resulted in an injury to a fellow servant.
There are, however, some duties which a master owes, as
such, to a servant entering, his employment. He owes the
duty to ppovide such servant with a reasonably safe place to
work in, having reference to-the character of the employment
in which the servant is engaged. He also owes the duty of
providing reasonably safe tools, appliances and machinery for
the accomplishment of the work necessary to b6 done. He
must exercise proper diligence in the employment of reasona-

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

339

Opinion of the Court.

bly safe and competent men to perform their respective duties,
and it has been held in many States that the master owes the
further duty of adopting and promulgating safe and proper
rules for the conduct of his business, including the government
of the machinery and the running of trains on a railroad track.
If the master be neglectful in any of these matters it is a
neglect of a duty which he personally owes to his employts,
and if the employ6 suffer damage on account thereof, the
master is liable. If, instead of personally performing these
obligations, the master engages another to do them for him,
he is liable for the neglect of that other, which, in such case,
is not the neglect of a fellow servant, no matter what his
poaition as to other matters, but is the neglect of the master to do those things which it is the duty of the master to
perform as such. . . . The rule is that, in order to form
an exception to the general law of non-liability, the person
whose neglect caused the injury must be one who was clothed
with the control and management of a distinct department,
and not a mere separate piece of work in one of the branches
of service in a department. This distinction is a plain one,
and not subject to any great embarrassment in determining
the fact in any particular case.
"When the business of the master or employer is of such
great and diversified extent that it naturally and necessarily
separates itself into departments of service, the individuals
placed by the master in charge of these separate branches
and departments of service, and given entire and absolute
control therein, may properly be considered, with respect to
employ~s under them, vice-principals and representatives of
the master as fully and as completely as if the entire business of the master were placed by him under one superintendent. . . . This boss of a small gang of ten or fifteen
men, engaged in making repairs upon the road wherever they
might be necessary, over a distance of three sections, aiding
and assisting the regular gang of workmen upon each section,
as occasion demanded, was not such a superintendent of a separate department, nor was he in control of such a distinct
branch of the work of the master, as would be necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

render the master liable to a coemploy6 for his neglect.
He was in fact, as well as in law, a fellow workman; he
went with the gang to the place of work in the morning,
stayed there with them during the day, superintended their
work, giving directions in regard to it, and returned home
with them in the evening, acting as a part of the crew of
the hand car upon which they rode. The mere fact, if it be
a fact, that he did not actually handle a shovel or a pick, is
an unimportant matter. Where more than one man is engaged
in doing any particular work, it becomes almost a necessity
that one should be boss and the other subordinate, but both
are nevertheless fello'w workmen."
The last case we shall refer to is that of Oakes v. M-ase, 165
U. S. 363, where it was declared to be the settled law of this
court that the relation of fellow servants exists between an
engineer, operating a locomotive on one train, and the conductor on another train on the same road; and _-Northern
_Pacijftc Railroad v. Poirier,167 U. 5. 48, where it was held
that a brakeman on a regular train of a railroad and the conductor of a wild train, on the same road, are fellow servants,
and the railroad company is not responsible for injuries happening to the former by reason of a collision of the two trains,
caused by the negligence of the latter and by his disregard
of the rules of the company.
Without attempting to educe from these cases a rule applicable to all possible circumstances, we think that we are
warranted by them in holding in the present case that, in
the absence of evidence of special and unusual powers having been conferred upon the conductor of the freiglt train,
he, the engineer, and the brakemen, must be deemed to have
been fellow servants within the meaning of the rule which
exempts the railroad company, their common employer, from
liability to one of them for injuries caused by the negligence
of another.
This conclusion is certainly sound unless we are constrained
to hold otherwise by the decision in Chicago, Milwaukee &St. Paul Railroad v. Ross,.already referred to. That was a
case wherein an action was maintained, brought by a locomo-

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

3 1

Opinion of the Court.

tive engineer to recover damages received in a collision caused
by the negligence of the conductor of the train; and it must
be admitted that the reasoning employed by Mr. Justice Field,
in his opinion expressing the views of a majority of the court,
and the conclusion reached by him, cannot be reconciled with
the other decisions of this court hereinbefore cited. We 'do
not think that it would be proper to pass by the case with6ut
comment, nor yet to attempt to distinguish it by considerations so narrow as to leave the courts below in uncertainty
as to the doctrine of this court on a subject so important and
of such frequent recurrence. 'The ease in hand exemplifies
the perplexity caused by the Ross case. The trial court gave
effect to it as establishing the proposition that the conductor
of an ordinary freight train, with no other powers than those
assumed to belong to such an employ by vitue of such a
position, is a vice-principal, against whose negligence the
company is bound to indemnify all the other employis on
the train. Yet it is evident that the judges of the Circuit
Court of Appeals did not find themselves able to either accept
or reject such a proposition, as they have certified it to us as
one on which they desire our instructions. Such a course
plainly evinces doubts whether, in view of the decisions both
before and since, the case of Chicago, .filwaukee & St. Paul
Railroad v. Ross furnishes a safe and approved rule to guide
the trial courts.
While the opinion in the Ross case contains a lucid exposition of many of the established rules regulating the relations
between masters and servants, and particularly as respects the
duties of railroad companies to their various employis, we
think it went too far in holding that a conductor of a freight
train is, p8so facto, a vice-principal of the company. An
inspection of the opinion shows that that conclusion was
based upon certain assumptions, not borne out by the evidence
in the case, as to the powers and duties of conductors of
freight trains. Thus it was said:
"We know from the manner in which railroads are operated
that, subject to the general rules and orders of the directors
of the companies, the conductor has entire control and man-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

agement of the train to which he is assigned. He directs
when it shall start, at what speed it shall run, at what stations
it shall stop, and for what length of time, and everything
essential to its successful movements, and all persons employed
-on it are subject to his orders. In no proper sense of the
terms is he a fellow servant with the fireman, the brakemen,
the porters and the engineer; the latter are fellow servants
in the running of the train under his direction; as to them
and the train, he stands in the place of and represents the
corporation."
We -think these statements attribute duties and powers to
conductors of freight trains much greater than ordinarily exist.
Several of the instances of control assigned to the conductor
really belong to the engineer, who, as railroads are now operated, is a much more important functionary in the actual
movements of the train, when in motion, than the conductor.
It is his hand that regulates the application of the brakes that
control the speed of the train, and in doing so he acts upon his
own knowledge and observation, and nbt upon orders of the conductor. Particularly has this become the case since the introduction of the air train-brake system. We can take notice of
the act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, which enacted
"that it shall be unlawful for any common carrier engaged in
interstate commerce by railroad to use on its line any locomotive engine in moving interstate traffic not equipped with a
power-driving wheel brake and appliances for operating the
train-brake system, or to run any train in such traffic after
said date that has not a sufficient number of cars in it so
equipped with power or train-brakes that the engineer on the
locomotive drawing such train can control its speed without
requiring brakemen to use the common hand-brake for that
purpose." We do not refer to this statute as directly applicable to tile case in hand,-but as a legislative recognition of the
dominant position of the engineer.
Cases are cited in the opinion in the Ross case in which it
has been held by the Supreme Court of Ohio and by the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky that railroad companies are
rdsponsible for negligence of conductors to other employ~s.

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

343

Opinion of the Court.

But those courts do not accept the ordinary rule exempting
the master from liability to a servant for the negligent conduct of his fellows. At least, they do not apply such a rule to
the extent that this and other courts have done. They hold
that no service is common that does not admit a common
participation, and no servants are fellow servants when one is
placed in control over the other.
In so far as the decision in the case of Ross is to be understood as laying it down, as a rule of law to govern in the
trial of actions against railroad companies, that the conductor,
merely from his position as such,- is a vice-principal, whose
negligence is that of the company, it must be deemed to have
been overruled, in effect if not in terms, in the subsequent
case of Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Baugh, before cited.
There Mr. Justice Brewer, in commenting upon the proposition applied in the Ross case, that the conductor of a train
has the control and management of a distinct department, said:
"But the danger from the negligence of one specially in
charge of the particular work is as obvious and as great as
that of those who are simply coworkers with him in it. Each
is equally with the other an ordinary risk of the employment.
If he is paid for the one, he is paid for the other; if he assumes
the one, he assumes the other. Therefore, so far as the matter
of the master's exemption from liability depends upon whether
the negligence is one of the ordinary risks of the employment,
and, thus, assumed by the employP, it includes all coworkers
to the same end, whether in control or not. But if the fact
that the risk is or is not obvious does not control, what test or
rule is there which determines? Rightfully this, there must
be some personal wrong on the part of the master, some breach
of positive duty on his part. If he discharges all that may be
called positive duty, and is himself guilty of no neglect, it
would seem as though he was absolved from all responsibility,
and that the party who caused the injury should be himself
alone responsible. It may be said that this is only passing
from one difficulty to another, as it leaves still to be settled
what is positive duty and what is personal neglect; and yet if
we analyze these matters a little, there will appear less diffi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

culty in the question. Obviously, a breach of positive duty
is personal neglect; and the question in any given case is,
therefore, what is the positive duty of the master? He certainly owes the duty of taking fair and reasonable precautions
to surround his employ6 with fit and careful coworkers, and
the employ6 has a right to rely on his discharge of this duty.
If the master is careless in the matter of employing a servant,
it is his personal neglect; and if without proper care in inquiring.as to his competency he does employ an incompetent person, the fact that he has an incompetent, and therefore an
improper employ6 is a matter of his personal wrong, and
owing to his personal neglect. And if the negligence of this
incompetent servant works injury to a co-servant, is it not
obvious that the master's omission of duty enters directly and
properly into the question of responsibility? , If, on the other
hand, the master has taken all reasonable precautions to inquire
into the competency of one proposing to enter into his service,
and as the result of such reasonable inquiry is satisfied that the
employ6 is fit and competent, can it be said that the master
has neglected anything, that he has omitted any personal
duty? And this notwithstanding that after the servant has
been employed it shall be disclosed that he was incompetent
and unfit? If he has done all that reasonable care requires to
inquire into the competency of his servant, is any neglect
imputable to him? No human inquiry, no possible precaution, is sufficient to absolutely determine in advance whether
a party under certain exigencies will or will not do a negligent
act. So it is not possible for the master, take whatsoever
pains he may, to secure employ~s who will never be guilty of
any negligence. Indeed, is there any man who does not some-times do a negligent act? Neither is it possible for the master,
with any ordinary and reasonable care, always to secure competent and fit servants. He may be mistaken, notwithstanding the reasonable precautions he has taken. Therefore, that
a servant proves to be unfit and incompetent, or that in any
given exigency he is guilty of a negligent act resulting in
injury to a fellow servant, does not of itself prove any omis:
sion of care on the part of the master in his employment; and

NEW ENGLAND. RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

345

Opinion of the Court.

it is only when there is such omission of care that the master
can be said to be guilty of personal wrong in placing 'or continuing such servant in his employ, or has done or omitted
aught justifying the placing upon him responsibility for such
employ6's negligence.
"Again, a master employing a servant impliedly engages
with him that the place in which he is to work and the tools
or machinery with which he is to work, or by which he is to
be surrounded, shall be reasonably safe. It is the master who
is to provide the place and the tools and machinery, and when
he employs one to enter into his service he impliedly says to
him that there is no other danger in the place, the tools and the
machinery, than such as is obvious and necessary. Of course,
some places of work and some kinds of machinery are more
dangerous than others, but that is something which inheres in
the thing itself, which is a matter of necessity, and cannot be
obviated. But within such limits the master who provides the
place, the tools and the machinery, owes a positive duty to
his employ6 in respect thereto. That positive duty does not
go to the extent of a guarantee of safety, but it does require
that reasonable precautions be taken to secure safety, and it
matters not to the employ6 by whom that safety is secured
or the reasonable precautions therefor taken. He has a right
to look to the master for the discharge of that duty, and if the
master, instead of discharging it himself, sees fit to have it
attended to by others, that does not change the measure of
obligation to the employS, or the latter's right to insist that
reasonable precaution shall be taken to secure safety in these
respects. Therefore it will be seen that the question turns
rather on the character of the act than on the relations of the
employ~s to each other. If the act is one done in the discharge of some positive duty of the master to the servant,
then negligence in the act is the negligence of the master;
but if it be not one in the discharge of such positive duty, then
there should be some personal wrong on the part of the employer before he is held liable therefor. But it may be asked,
is not the duty of seeing that competent and fit persons are in
charge of any particular work as positive as that of providing

OOTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

safe places and machinery ? Undoubtedly it is, and requires
the same vigilance in its discharge. But the latter duty is
discharged when reasonable care has been taken in providing
such safe place and machinery, and so the former is as fully
discharged, when reasonable precautions have been taken to
place fit and competent persons in charge. Neither duty
carries with it an absolute guaranty. Each is satisfied with
reasonable effort and precaution."
Accordingly, the conclusion reached was that, although the
party injured was a fireman, who was subject to the orders
and control of the engineer, in the absence of any conductor,
there was no liability on the company for negligence of the
ad interim conductor.
That this reasoning and conclusion were inconsistent with
those in the Ross case is not only apparent on comparing them,
but further appears in the dissenting opinion in The Baugh
case of Mr. Justice Field, who was the author of the opinion in
the case of Ross. He said:
"The opinion of the majority not only limits and narrows
the doctrine of the Ross case, but, in effect, denies, even with
the limitations placed by them upon it, the correctness of its
general doctrine, and asserts that the risks which an employ6
of a company assumes from the service which he undertakes
is from the negligence of one in immediate control, as well as
from a coworker, and that there is no superintending agency
for which a corporation is liable, unless it extends to an entire
department of service. A conclusion is thus reached that the
company is not responsible in the present case for injuries
received by the fireman from the negligent acts of the conductor of the engine.

.

.

.

The principle in the Ross case

cbvers this case, and requires, in my opinion, a judgment of
affirmance."
So likewise Mr. Chief Justice Fuller dissented in The Baugh
case for the express reason that, in his opinion, the case came
within the rule laid down in Chicago, Afilwaukee & St. Paul
Rail'roadv. Ross.
To conclude, and not to subject ourselves to our own previous criticism, of proceeding upon assumptions not founded on

NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD CO. v. CONROY.

34V

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the evidence in the case, we shall content ourselves by saying
that, upon the facts stated and certified to us by the Judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, we cannot, as a matter of law
based upon those facts and upon such common knowledge as
we, as a court, can be supposed to possses, hold a conductor of
a freight train to be a vice-principal within any safe definition
of that relation.
Accordingly we answer the first question pUt to Us in the
affirmative, and the second question in the negative.
MR. JusnTc

HARLAff

dissenting.

I concurred in the opinion and judgment of this court in
Chicago & .Ailwaukee Railroadv. Ross, 112 U. S. 377, and do
not now perceive any sound reason why the principles announced in that case should not be sustained. In my judgment
the conductor of a railroad train is the representative of the
company in respect of its management, all the other employ~s
on the train are his subordinates in matters involved in such
management, and for injury received by any one of those subordinates during the management of the train by reason of the
negligence of the conductor the railroad company should be
held responsible. As the conductor commands the movements
of the train and has general control over the employ~s connected
with its operation, the company represented by him ohght to
be held responsible for his negligence resulting in injury to
other employ~s discharging their duties under his immediate
orders. If in such case the conductor be not a vice-principal, it
is difficult to say who among the officers or agents of a corporation sued by one of its employ~s for personal injuries ought
to be regarded as belonging to that class. Having these views,
I am .compelled to withhold my assent from the opinion and
judgment in this case.

