THE NEW YORI.
Syllabus.

courts of an indictment found under the laws of a State be
finally prevented."
The jurisdiction is more delicate, the reason against its
exercise stronger, when a single judge is invoked to reverse
the decision of the highest court of a State in which the constitutional rights of a prisoner could have been claimed and
may be were rightly decided, or if not rightly decided, could
be reviewed and redressed by a writ of error from this court.
The case at bar presents no circumstances to justify a
departure from the rule or to relieve from the application
of its reasons. Nor does the question arise what right
appellant would have had to petition relief from the District
Court if his remedies against' the judgment of the state court
had ceased to exist.
Judgment affrmed.

THE NEW YORK.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF ArEALs FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No.56.

Argued October 19,1899. -Deided

November 20,1899.

In 1891, the navigation of steamers upon the Great Lakes and their connecting waters was governed by the Congressional Rules and Regulations of April 29, 1864, Rev. Stat. § 4233, and, so far as the manceuvres of
the vessels took place in American waters, by the Supervising Inspectors'
rules in force at that time.
The Revised International Regulations of 1885 apply only to vessels navigating the high seas and coast waters of the United States, and not to
those navigating the Great Lakes.
A court of admiralty may properly take judicial notice of an act of the
parliament of Canada regulating the navfgation of Canadian waters,
passed in 1886, as a law of the sea and of general application.
Where a Canadian statute was introduced and treated as evidence by consent of counsel upon a motion for a rehearing in the District Court,
though it did not appear of record, and, in obedience to a writ of
' The docket title of this case is The Erie & Western Transportation Company v. The Union Steamboat Company, claimant of the Propeller "New
York."

OCTOBER TER , 1899.
Statement of the Case.
certiorari from the Court of Appeals, was certified up to the Court of
Appeals'by the clerk of the District Court as a true copy of the. original act as published, it was held that the Court of Appeals should have
treated the act as properly before it, notwithstanding the clerk did not
certify it to be a part of the record.
The steamer Conemaugh, while descending the Detroit River at night,
discovered in her path a long tow, which was rounding to on the American side and was temporarily taking up three fourths of the navigable
channel, and starboarded in order to pass between the rear barges and the
Canadian channel bank. While proceeding under her starboard wheel,
she made the lights of the propeller New York ascending the river. She
blew her three signals of two whistles each, to neither of which the
New York responded. On discovering the rear barges of the tow, she
ported to follow them down the river, and upon discovering the New
York in dangerous proximity, put her helm hard-a-starboard and her
engines at full speed. The New York was at the same time coming up
under a pbrt wheel, and struck the Conemaugh on the starboard side and
sank her. Held that the Conemaugh was in fault (1) for not stopping
when the New York failed to answer her signals; (2) for porting and
then starboarding in order to cross the bow of the New York.
The New York, while ascending the river, made the lights of the tow,
exchanged signals of one whistle with the propeller in charge of it, and
ported her wheel to pass between the rear barges and the Canadian
channel bank. She heard no signals and did not make out the colored
lights of the Conemaugh. As she passed the rear barges she starboarded
to resume her course, and struck the Conemaugh as above stated. Held:
That she was in fault (1) for an inefficient lookout; (2) for failing to
answer the repeated signals of the Conemaugh; and (3) for failure to
stop after she made the white light of the Conemaugh, until her course
and movements had been satisfactorily ascertained.
The fact that the officers of a steamer fail to see the signal lights of an
approaching steamer, which are seen by other witnesses in the neighborhood, or to hear the whistles of such steamer which were plainly audible
to others, is, unexplained, conclusive evidence of a defective lookout.
It is the duty of a steamer receiving signal whistles from an approaching
steamer to answer them promptly; but it is also the duty of such
approaching steamer, on the failure of the other to answer, to stop
until her silence is explained and her course ascertained with certainty.
Where the owners of a cargo of a steamer, which has been sunk by collision
occasioned by the mutual fault of two colliding steamers, hitervene for
their interest in a suit instituted by the owners of the carrying vessel
against the other, they are entitled to recover full damages against such
other vessel, notwithstanding the damages to such vessels are divided as
between themselves.

THIs was a libel in admiralty filed by the Erie & Western
Transportation Company, owner of the propeller Conemaugh,

THE NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

and a cross-libel by the Union Steamboat Company, owner of
the propeller New York, against the propeller Conemaugh, to
recover damages for a collision between these vessels which
occurred between seven and eight o'clock in the evening of
October 21, 1891, on the Canadian side of the Detroit River,
a short distance below the village of Sandwich in the Province
of Ontario, and between what is known as Petite C0te, on the
Canadian side, and Smith's Coal Shutes, on the American side
of the river. The river at this point is nearly straight, and
flows in a direction about south-southwest. The underwriters
of the cargo of the Conemaugh were permitted to intervehe
to protect their interests.
The libel of the Conemaugh averred that she was bound from
Milwaukee to Erie, PennsylVania, with a cargo of about 1800
tons of package freight; that she was proceeding down the
river on the American side of mid-channel, "having hauled
some to starboard to avoid some piles driven in the channel,"
and known as the Kasota piles, and when half or three quarters of a mile above Smith's Coal Dock, she received a signal
of two blasts from the steamer Burlington, which, with four
barges In tow, had gone down the Canadian side of the river,
and was then rounding to at the coal dock on the American
side, exhibiting her masthead and green lights to the Conemaugh. Her engine was at once checked, and remained
checked until the time of the collision, her heln starboarded,
the whistle answered by two blasts, and the propeller hauled
out sharply, keeping some distance above the tow, and so
directing her course as to pass astern and to the Canadian
side of the tow, which was then stretched out in the river
toward that side; that the Conemaugh then made the lights
of the New York down the river below the tow, and coming
up toward the Conemaugh upon such a course that the Conemaugh would cross the course of the New York before the
latter could reach the point of intersection; that the Conemaugh at once blew her a signal of two blasts, notifying the
New York that she was so directing her course as to keep
well in on the Canadian shore, and to leave the New York to
starboard as she should come abreast of the tow. Receiving

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

no reply thereto, the Conemaugh repeated the signal of two
blasts. The New York did not reply to this second signal,
whereupon the Conemaugh blew a third signal of two blasts,
when the New York, which had all the time been coming
rapidly up the river, without replying to any of the Conemaugh's signals, turned suddenly and rapidly to starboard,
swinging over to the Canadian side; seeing which, the Conemaugh blew alarm whistles and hard-starboarded her helm.
But the -New York, first swinging rapidly and violently to
starboard, and apparently turning some to port before she
struck, came on at full speed, struck.the Conemaugh on the
starboard side abreast the texas, cut deeply into her, and
crushed her side. The Conemaugh almost immediately
struck the Canadian bank of the river "andfilled . and sank.
The answer and cross-libel of the New York averred that
she was bound on a voyage from Buffalo to Milwaukee, laden
with a cargo of general merchandise; that at the time of the
collision she was bound up the Detroit River, and when near
the point in said river below where the River Rouge empties into it, a steamer - the Burlington - with a tow of four
barges, began to round to from the Canadian side to Smith's
Coal Dock on the American side, .exhibiting to the New York
her masthead and red side light, as well as the red side lights
of the barges in tow. To this the New York blew her a passing signal of one blast, "at the same time checking her engine
and reducing her speed to about four miles an hour, and then
porting her helm so as to pass under the stern of the last
barge. When the New York had arrived at a point abreast
of the last barge in tow, a signal of two whistles was heard,
but being unable to see any vessel, and noticing only a white
light close on the Canadian bank of the river, this signal of
two blasts was not answered, as it seemed to be intended for
some other vessel, the New York being then close to the
Canadian-bank, and there not being room enough for any
vessel to safely pass between her and that bank. The New
York, therefore, still running slowly, continued on her course
so as to go around close to the last barge, and when abreastof her quarter starboarded so as to go close under her stern.

THE NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

While passing under the stern of this barge, and not more
than ten or twenty feet from her, several short blasts of a
propeller, which proved to be the Conemaugh, were heard
close at hand, and not -more than one hundred feet away.
The Conemaugh pursued, her course directly across the bows
of the New York, which was then swinging under a hard-astarboard helm. A collision was then inevitable, and there
was neither time nor room enough to stop the engine of the
-New York, and the only way left open to avoid a collision was
to continue under headway and to swing clear under a hard-astarboard helm. This was done. Notwithstanding this the
Conemaugh, with considerable headway, continued on her
course across the bows of the New York, so that the latter
struck her, stem on, on the starboard side, abreast of her forward gangway, and glancing along this side was swung by
the Conemaugh nearly alongside." The New' York immediately backed, and offered her assistance to the Conemaugh,
but as she was then on the bank she refused the assistance.
That no other passing signal was heard from any steamer
after the exchange of the signal of one blast with the Burlington, except the signal of two short blasts from the Conemaugh, and that when this was received the New York was
close alongside of the last barge heading for the Canadian
bank of the river, where no steamer could pass with safety,
starboard to starboard.
A large amount of testimony was introduced on behalf of
the libellant, but none whatever by the claimant. A hearing
upon pleading and proofs before the District Court resulted
in a decree holding both vessels in fault and dividing the damages, although the District Judge expressed some doubt with
regard to the fault of the Conemaugh. 53 Fed. IRep. 553.
Libellant soon thereafter moved for a rehearing upon the
ground that the rules of the Supervising Inspectors had no
application; that the international rules adopted in 1885 governed the case, and asked leave to submit further testimony,
and for other reasons. This was granted, and a new decree
entered vacating "the former decree,, and adjudging the New
York to have been solely in fault.upon the ground that, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
'Statement of the Case.

the case of the City of ew York, 147 U. S. 72, 85, then
recently decided, the fault of the Conemaugh had not been
proven with sufficient clearness to justify a division of damages: Thereupon the claimant moved to vacate the decree
and for leave to introduce evidence in its own behalf, which
was denied. This motion was repeated upon affidavits, and
the deposition of the master, second mate and engineer of the
New York taken de bene esse under the statute. The motion
was however denied; the depositions stricken from the files,
and a final decree entered against the New York for the
damages and loss to the Conemaugh and her cargo.
Thereupon the claimant appealed the cause to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and upon the record being filed in that
court, a motion was made by the libellant for an order that
the testimony of a witness be taken to prove the Canadian
statute in force for regulating the navigation of the waters
of the Province of Qntario at the time of the collision, and
that a copy of such statute be introduced in the cause. This
motion was supported by an affidavit that the Canadian statute
was introduced in the District Court, and used and referred to
in the arguments upon the rehearing before the District Judge;
that such statute was then treated and used as part of the
record; but there was no stenographer present at the time
and no minute of such introduction and use of the Canadian
statute was preserved in the record. The motion for an order
permitting testimony to prove the Canadian statute appears
to have been withdrawn, a suggestion of diminution of record
substituted and a writ of certiorari asked for and granted to
supply such evidence as did not appear in the record. The
District Court made return to this writ by an order that the
clerk transmit to the Court of Appeals a certified copy of
the Canadian statutes governing the navigation of vessels in
the waters of Canada during the year 1891. The navigation
act of Canada of 1886 was thereupon sent up with a certificate of the clerk of the District Court that "the papers hereto
attached, marked Exhibit A, are a true copy of the Revised
Statutes of Canada, 1886, volume 1, chapter '79, entitled ' An
act respecting the navigation of Canadian waters, A.D. 1886;'

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

that I have carefully compared the same with the original act
as published, and find the same to be a true copy of such
original and of the whole thereof."
That court, however, refused to consider this statute upon
the ground that the return of the District Court to the writ
contained no certificate that the statute was made a part of
the record by being offered and received in evidence, but only
.a statement by the clerk that "that which is returned is a
correct copy of the Canadian statute as published."
The hearing of the appeal resulted in a reversal of the
decree of the District Court, and a remand to that court with
directions to dismiss the libel of the Conemaugh upon the
ground that she only was in fault. 54 U. S. App. 248. A
rehearing was subsequently asked for and denied. 56 U. S.
App. 146.
Whereupon libellant applied for and was granted a writ of
certiorari from this court.
Xrd. F. f. Canfield and .fr. ilarvey -D. Goulder for petitioners. ,r'. John C. Shiaw was on Mr. Goulder's brief.
-Mr. H. C. Wisher and A6'. C. . JYemer for respondents.
.216'. 1. 0. Johnson was on their brief.
MR. JUsTIcE BiowN, after making the above statement of

facts, delivered the opiniol of the court.
This collision took place in October, 1891. The navigation
of the two steamers was therefore governed by the Congressional Rules and Regulations Act of April 29, 1864, c. 69, 13
Stat. 58, reproduced in Revised Statutes, section 4233, and, so
far at least as the manceuvres of the respective vessels took
place in American waters, by the Supervising Inspectors' rules
in force in 1891.
The Revised International Rdgulations of 1885, act of
March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, apply only to navigation
"upon the high seas and in all coast waters of the United
States;" and in section two repealing prior inconsistent jawo,
voL. cC0L-X-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

there is an exception of vessels navigating "the harbors, lakes
and inland waters of the United States." It is true that in
.Koore v. The American Transportation Co., 24 How. 1, the
limited liability act of 1851, which contained an exception of
vessels used "in rivers or inland navigation," was held, notwithstanding this exception, to apply to vessels navigating the
Great Lakes; but the cases are readily distinguishable. In
that the exception was "any canal boat, barge or lighter, or
(to) any vessels of any description whatsoever, used in rivers
or inland navigation." It was held that the character of the
craft enumerated might "well serve to indicate to some extent,
and with some reason, the class of vessels in the mind of
the lawmakers, which are designated by the place where
employed." But the case was really decided upon the-ground
of the magnitude of the Lakes, their commerce, their vessels
and the well-known perils incident to lake navigation. It
was thought that such commerce deserved to be placed on
the footing of commerce on the ocean, and that "Congress
could not have classed it with the business upon rivers, or
inland navigation," in the sense in which we understand these
terms. In the present case the exception is specifically of
"vessels navigating the harbors, lakes and inland waters of
the United States." If the word "lakes" was not intended
to include the Great Lakes it is difficult to see the object
of Congress in making use of that word, since nearly all the
other navigable lakes, except Lake Champlain, are located
within the limits of a single State, and no act was necessary
to exempt them, as the power of Congress does not extend
to the purely internal or infraterritorial commerce of the
country. The Montello, 11 Wall. 411; Yeazie v. 3oor, 14
How. 568.
The question, however, is one of little practical importance
in this case, inasmuch as rule 19 of Rev. Stat. § 4233 is word
for word the same as article sixteen of the Revised International Rules and Regulations of 1885. Both are as follows:
"If two vessels under steam are crossing so as to involve risk
of collision, the vessel which has the other on her own star.aoardside shall keep out of the way of the other."

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

The power of the Supervising Inspectors to adopt rules for
the government of steam vessels in passing each other, Rev.
Stat. § 4412, is limited by sec. 4400 to steam vessels "navigating any waters of the United States which are common
highways of commerce, or open to general or competitive
navigation." These rules are pertinent to this case only so
far as they make it thd duty of vessels to- indicate by signals
of one or two whistles the course they are about to take, and
of the other vessel to answer them, and also, in case of vessels
crossing each other, within the meaning of article sixteen, in
requiring the obligated vessel to avoid the other by porting
and going under her stern. These rules are as follows:
Rule II. "When steamers are approaching each other in an
oblique direction (as shown in diagram of the fourth situation)
they shall pass to the right of each other as if meeting ' head
and head' or nearly so, and the signals by whistle shall be
given and answered promptly, as in that'case specified."
Rule 11. "If, when steamers are approaching each other, the
pilot of either vessel fails to understand the course of the other,
whether from signals being given or answered, erroneously or
from other cause, the pilot so in doubt shall immediately
signify the same by giving several short and rapid blasts of
the steam whistle; and after the vessels have approached
within half a mile of each other both shall be immediately
slowed to a speed barely sufficient for steerage way until the
proper signals are given, answered and understood, or until the
vessels shall have passed each other."
Rule -VI. "The signals by the blowing of the steam whistle
shall be given and answered bypilots in compliance with these
rules, not only when meeting ' head and head,' or nearly so,
but at all times when passing or meeting at a distance of
-within half a mile, and whether passing to the starboard
or port."
1. We are of opinion that the Canadian statute of 1886
may properly be considered by us.
The question how far this court may take judicial notice of
the laws of a foreign country has been the subject of some discussion, and was first considered by this court in the case of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Talbot v. Seeman, 1 Craneh, 1, 38. That was a case of salvage
upon recapture from the French. It became necessary to
inquire whether the laws of France were such as to have
rendered the condemnation so probable as to create a case
of such real danger that her recapture could be considered a
meritorious service. To prove this, counsel offered several
degrees of the French government, to the reading of which
objection was made upon the ground that they were the laws
of a foreign nation, and therefore to be proved as facts. In
holding that the decree, having been promulgated in the
United States as a law of France, was entitled to be read,
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall observed "that the laws of a
foreign nation, designed only for the direction of its own
affairs are not to be noticed ,by the courts of other countries,
unless proved as facts, and that this court, with respect to
facts, is limited to the statement made in the court below,
cannot be questioned. The real and only question is, whether
the public laws of a foreign nation on a subject of common
concern to all nations, promulgated by the governing powers
of a country, can be noticed as law by a court of admiralty of
that country, or must be still further proved as a fact. The
negative of this proposition has not been maintained in any of
the authorities which have been adduced. On the contrary,
several have been quoted, (and such seems to have been the
general practice,) in which the marine ordinances of a foreign
nation are read as law without being proved as facts. It has
been said that this is done by consent; that it is a matter of
general convenience not to put parties to the trouble and
expense of proving permanent and well-known laws which
it is in their power to prove; and this opinion is countenanced by the case cited from Douglas. If it be correct,
yet this decree, having been promulgated in the United
States as the law of France by the joint act of that Department which is entrusted with foreign intercourse, and of
that which is invested with the powers of war, seems to
assume the character of notoriety which renders it admissible
in our courts."
The same question as applied to the original Rules and

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

Regulations was presented to us in the case of The Scotia,
14 Wall. 170, in which we held that, in view of the fact that
these rules and regulations were originally adopted by the
British Orders in Council of January 9' 1863, and by Congress in 1864, and had been accepted as obligatory by more
than thirty of the principal commercial states of the world,
including almost all which have any shipping on the Atlantic
*Ocean, we would take judicial notice of them and treat them
as laws of the sea and of general obligation. The duty to
take judicial notice of these rules was also recognized by this
court in The Belgeniand, 114 U. S. 355, 370, in The Richelieu
&c. NJavigation Co. v. Boston Alarinens. Co., 136 U. S. 408,
422, and in numerous cases in the lower courts. There is
nothing in the case of The Liverpool &c. Steam Co. v. Phoenix
Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, in conflict with this. That did not
involve a question of general maritime law, but of a statutory
exemption from the consequences 6f negligence in navigation
given by a British act of Parliament. We know of no reason
why the rule adopted in The Scotia should not be applied to
the Revised International Rules and Regulations. They have
also been adopted by most, if not all, the nations which gave
their assent to the original rules and regulations of 1863, and
the reasons whichf induced this court to take judicial notice of
these rules are equally persuasive here. The reference to the
Canadian statute of 1886, used in the District Court and printed
as a part of the record here, shows it to be, except as to the
waters covered by it and as to certain immaterial local regulations, a literal copy of the Congressional act of 1885.
But we think that for another reason the act is properly
before us. After the case had been appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the libellant moved that court for an order
requiring the testimony of a witness to be taken to prove the
Canadian statute, and filed in support of this motion affidavits
that in the printed record there was no copy of this statute,
but that it was introduced in the District Court and used and
referred to in the arguments upon the rehearing before the
District Judge; that at that time the libellant offered to prove
the statute by oral testimony, but that it was then agreed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

open court between the proctors that the testimony of such
witness might be dispensed with, and that the statute then in
court might be used without technical proof thereof. No
order was made upon this motion, but there was a further
suggestion to the court of a diminution of the record in that
the Canadian statute, which was introduced and used as evidence in the District Court, did not appear in the record, and
a writ of certiorari was granted "fbecause the transcript of
the record in this case does not contain a copy of the Canada
statutes governing the navigation of vessels in the waters of
Canada during the year 1891, which was introduced in evidence, as alleged." In obedience to this writ, the clerk of the
District Court was ordered to transmit to the Circuit Court
of Appeals a certified copy of the Canadian statute. This
was done, but the clerk, instead of certifying that it was a,
part of the record, certified only that he had "carefully compaied the same with the original act aspulished," (by which
we understand as published in the statutes of Canada,) "and
find the same to be a true copy of such original and of the
whole thereof." It thus appears that the Canadian statute
had been used in the District Court by consent of counsel, had
been treated as part of the record, and that the copy sent up
was a-true copy of the statute as published. It is true that
the clerk did not formally certify it to be a part of the record,
but the fact that it had been so treated was established by the
affidavit; and the writ of certiorari upon its face recited the
fact that a copy of the statute had been introduced, in evidence, as alleged, and required the court below to "send the
record and proceedings, with all things concerning the same,
as fully and entirely as they remain -of record in said District
Court." In view of these proceedings, we think the Circuit
Court of Appeals should have accepted the certified copy of
the statute as properly in evidence before it.
The only novel feature of this statute, pertinent to this case,
is as follows:
"Art. 19. In taking any course authorized or required by
these regulations, a steamship under way may indicate that
course to any other ship which she has in sight by the follow-

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court

ing signals on her steam whistle, that is to say: One short
blast to mean 'I am directing my course to starboard;' two
short blasts to mean 'I am directing my course to port;'
three short blasts to meah II am going at full speed astern.'
The use of these signals is optional; but if they are used, the
course of the ship • must be in accordance with the signal
made."
In this view, the question whether two American vessels
running from one American port to another 'are bound, whenever they cross the boundary line between the United States
and Canada, which at this point is the flum aguw of Detroit
River, to conform to the navigation laws of Canada, does not
arise in this case. W6re all-the commerce of the lakes carried
on in American vessels the question would be less difficult
of solution. But as much of this commerce is Canadian, and
it i§ impossible to tell whether an approaching vessel be
American or Canadian, an attempt to apply the laws of the
United States in all cases might'result in confusion and in
great injustice to Canadian vessels, in case the tules and regulations of the two countries differed in any material respect.
We arg saved, however, consideration of these questions by
the fact that the signals and the steering rules of the United
States and Canada are practically identical. This- fact being
once established, the duty of vessels of both nations in meeting each other, either upon American or Canadian waters, is
easily understood.
•2. In judging of the responsibility for this collision, it
should .be borne in mind that the Burlington and .her tow
were temporarily occupying from two thirds to three quarters
of the navigable channel of the river. The distance between
the r~ar'barge.and the Canadian bank of the navigable channel is variously estimated, but according to the Court of
Appeals was about five hundred feet. It may have been as
much as eight hundred feet, but probably was not more than
that. The night was clear and starlit, the weather fine, and
the collision could soarcely have occurred except by the fault
of one or both vessels.
The Conemaugh, a steanier of 1609 tons burden, was com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing down the American side of the river at her usual speed
of about ten miles an hour, and, when her attention was first
called to the obstruction of the Burlington's tow, was about
passing what are known as the Kasota piles, which were in
fact the remains of a coffer dam once used in raising the
steamer Kasota. They were near mid-channel, though somewhat upon the American side, and about three quarters of a
mile above Smith's Coal Dock. As she was passing these
piles, leaving them on her port hand, she received and answered a signal of two blasts from the Burlington, which had
come down the river on the Canadian side, and was at that.
time rounding to at the coal d6ck on the American side, her
tow of four barges making a crescent or semicircle, the outer
arm of which was, as above stated, from five to eight hundred feet from the Canadian bank. The length of the tow
was about 2600 feet, the width of the channel.about 3000
'feet. The Burlington at this time was exhibiting to the
Conemaugh her white masthead and her starboard green
light. The first barge in tow was also exhibiting her green
light, but the others had not rounded to sufficiently to exhibit
their cokred lights. After exchanging this signal with the
Burlington, the wheel of the Conemaugh was put hard-a-starboard, her speed checked, and her course taken across the
stream at almost a right angle with her former course. Upon
this course she was exhibiting her green light to vessels
ascending the river. After she had "picked up" or discovered the rear barge her wheel was steadied, and then
ported to follow the tow, which by the force of the current
was gradually swinging down stream, and would ultimately
round to on the American side, astern of the Burlington. As
the Conemaugh steadied her wheel 'to starboard her watch
made out below the tow and about a mile distant the white
and red lights of th6 New York, apparently somewhat on the
American side- of mid-channel, and promptly signalled her
-with two blasts of her whistle, indicating that she would pass
her to the left. No answer was received from the New York.
Under such circumstances it would have been more prudent
-for the Conemaugh to stop and wait a few minutes, until the

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

tow had drifted down and left the channel clear below her;
but inasmuch as there was a clear space of five hundred feet
of navigable water between the last barge and the Canadian
bank of the channel, we should hesitate to condemn her for
this fault, were there no others contributing more immediately
to the collision.
Receiving no answer to her first blast, the Conemaugh,
when the two steamers were about three quarters of a mile
apart, repeated her signal of two blasts - the New York then
showing her masthead and both colored lights. Again no
-reply was made by the New York. The Conemaugh, which
had then ported and was heading toward the Canadian shore,
and about four points from the direct course down the river,
gave a third signal of two blasts, the New York continuing
to show all three of her lights, and being apparently close to
and between the second and third barges of the tow. The
New York made no answer to this third signal. The duty
of the Conemaugh at this juncture was plain. She should
have-stopped her engines after the second signal, and, if necessary to bring her to a complete standstill, have reversed
them. Nothing is better settled than that, if a steamer be
approaching another vessel which has disregarded her signals,
or whose position or movements are uncertain, she is bound
to stop until her course be ascertained with certainty. The
Louisiana, (Louisiana v. Fisher,) 21 How. 1; The Ogdensburgh,(Chamberlainv. Ward,) 21 How. 548; The R. H.Stokes,
(AYelson v. Leland,) 22 How. 48; The Martello, 153 U. S.
64, 71; Tie Teutonia, 23 Wall. 77; Tie James Watt, 2 W.
Rob. 270; The Birkenhead, 3 W. Rob. 75; The Hermann, 4
Blatchford, 441; The Huntsville, 8 Blatchford, 228; T7Te Hammonia, 4 Ben. 515; The Mary Sandford, 3 Ben. 100; The
Arabian, 2 Stuart Vice Adm'y, 72. There was peculiar necessity for such action in this case. These vessels were about
to meet upon crossing courses, and to pass each other in the
narrowest part of the channel. The Conemaugh had three
times signalled her wish to take the Canadian side, and pass
starboard to starboard. The New York had three times
neglected to give her assent to this arrangement. The Cone-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

maugh had construed her failure to reply as an acquiescence
in her own signals. The New York might have construed
such failure as a refusal to acquiesce. In such a case it was
clearly incumbent upon the Conemaugh to stop until the
mystery of her silence was explained, and in failing so to do
she was guilty of fault. Instead of that, while running under
check and under a port helm, she steadied and almost immediately lost the green light of the New York, whereupon she
sounded an alarm whistle, put her helm hard-a-starboard, and
endeavored to shoot across the bows of the New York. The
two steamers were then upon converging courses and about
a quarter of a mile apart. Even then, if the Conemaugh bad
put her helm hard-a-port and reversed her engines she would
probably have avoided a collision, although her final error,
being apparently in extremis, perhaps ought not to be attributed to her as a fault. But she kept on her course at full
speed, with her helm hard-a-starboard, while the New York
came up the river, under a port wheel and at full speed, displaying her masthead and red light to the Conemaugh. Just
before the collision the wheel of the New York was starboarded, but too late to avert the blow. She struck "the
Conemaugh on her starboard side near the gangway, and
sank her within ten minutes. The llace of the collision seems
*to have been very near the Canadian bank , and about one
thousand feet from and -a little upon the port quarter of the
Furguson, the stern barge bf the Burlington's tow.
The fault of the Conemaugh appears 'the more flagrant
from the fact that the two steamers were. crossing vessels
within the meaning of rule 19, (Rev. Stat. § 4233,) and that
the Conemaugh, having the New York upon her starboard
side, was bound to keep out of her way. The supervising
inspectors' rules require that this manoeuvre shall be performed by porting the wheel and passing under" the stern of
the preferred. vessel. But, irrespective.of this rule, prudent
seamanship ordinarily.requires that the obligated vessel shal
take a course which, if the preferred vessel perform her own
duty, will certainly avoid a collision, viz., port and go astern.
If, upon the other hand, she elects to starboard and cross the

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

bows of the other vessel, she incurs the manifest danger of
not passing the point of intersection before the preferred vessel strikes her, and is justly considered as assuming the responsibility for the success of her manceuvre. The E. A. Packer,
140 U. S. 360, 366; The Xror, 2 Asp. M. L. Cases, 264. Of
course, there may be such conduct on the part of the favored
vessel as would show that she was alone guilty of fault, but
the greater safety of porting is so manifest that the circumstances must be quite exceptional to justify a different -course.
The failure of the Conemaugh's manceuvre'in tilis case only
emphasizes her original fault in failing to come to a standstill
when her two first signals to the New York were disregarded.
The conduct of the Conemaugh, as we shall hereafter show
in the navigation of the New York, was not even consistent
with her own theory, which was that she would cross the
course of the New York and pass down between her and the
Canadian bank. Instead of doing so, however, as soon as
she had "picked up" the stern barges and ascertained their
exact location, she ported her helm sufficiently to display to
these barges a glimmer of her red light, and as the New
York was about the same time starboarding to clear, these
barges, the result was that neither gave the other sufficient
room to pass. These circumstances were most favorable to
the collision which almost immediately ensued.
3. Inasmuch as no witnesses were sworn from the New
York we are compelled to judge' of the propriety of her
manceuvres from the admissions in her answer and from the
other testimony in the case. From these it appears that the
propeller, a vessel of 1700 tons, was bound up the river, and,
when nearing the point below where the river Rouge empties
into the Detroit just above Smith's Coal Dock, she descried
the Burlington and her tow beginning to -round to from the
Canadian side of. the river to the coal dock on the American
side, exhibiting to the New York her masthead and red lights
as well-as the red side light of the barges in tow. The answer
avers that thereupon "the New York blew a passing signal of
one blast, at the same time checking her engine and reducing
her speed to about four miles an hour, and then porting her

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

helm so as to pass under the stern of the.last barge. When
the :New York had arrived at a point abreast of the last
barge in tow, a signal of two whistles was heard, but being
unable to see any vessel, and noticing only a white light close
on the Canadian bank of the river, the signal of two blasts
was not answered, as it seemed to be intended for some other
vessel, the New York being then close to the Canadian bank,
and there not being room enough for any vessel to safely pass
between her and the bank."
If there were no other evidence in the case than these allegations, and the uncontradicted testimony of the Conemaugh
that she blew three signals to the New York, none of which
were answered, it is sufficient to show the latter to have been
guilty of a grievous fault. The night was clear, and there
appears to have been no difficulty in seeing the white and
colored lights of the Burlington and her tow, and .should have
been none in seeing the lights of the Conemaugh. No reason
is given why the signals of the Conemaugh were not heard,
and as the New York was not more than a mile distant from
her when her first signal was blown, and considerably less
than that when the second signal was blown, her inability to
hear them is inexplicible, except upon the theory that no sufficient lookout was maintained, or that such lookout did not
attend properly to his duties. Her officers failed conspicuously to see what they ought to have seen or to hear what
they ought to have heard. This, unexplained, is conclusive
evidence of a defective lookout. The Sea Gull, 23 Wall. 165;
The James Adger, 3 Blatchford, 515; The Fanita, 14 Blatchford, 545; The Sunnyside, 91 'U.S. 208; Spencer on Collisions, § 175.
. The force of this presumption of a defective lookout is
greatly strengthened by the fact that the claimant did not
see fit to put upon the stand the officers and crew of the New
York, who certainly would have been able to explain, if any
explanation were possible, why the lights of the Conemaugh
were not seen and distinguished or her signals heard. It was
said by this court in the case of Clfton v. United States, 4
How. 242, 246, that "to withhold testimony which it was in
0

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

the power of the party to produce in order to rebut a charge
against him, where it is not supplied by other equivalent testimony, might be as fatal as positive testimony in support or
confirmation of the charge." If the New York heard the
signals, it was her duty to answer them. Beyond this, however, the answer admits that a signal of two whistles was
heard, and a white light close on the Canadian bank of the
river was noticed, but the signal was not answered, as it
seemed to be intended for some other vessel. However, the
white light in connection with the whistles could only have
been the masthead light of a steam vessel, and as there is
no evidence that there was any other vessel coming up the
river, the signal could only have been intended for the New
York. If she were unable to see the colored lights of the
approaching steamer, it was her duty to stop until she mado
them out, or otherwise determine the identity and course of
the approaching vessel.
Her only excuse for her omission is that she was the preferred vessel within the nineteenth American -and sixteenth
Canadian rule, and that by the twenty-third American and
twenty-gecond Canadian rule, it was her duty to keep her
course. But the fact, that a steamer is entitled to hold her
course does not excuse her from inattention to signals, from
answering where an answer is required, or from adopting
such precautions as may be necessary to prevent a collision,
in case there be a distinct indication that the obligated steamer
is about to fail in her duty. As was said in the case of The
Sunny8ide, 91 U. S. 208, 222: "Cases arise in navigation
where a stubborn adherence to a general rule is a culpable
fault, for the reason that every navigator ought to know that
rules of navigation are ordained not to promote collisions, but
to save life and property by preventing such disasters." See
also The Delaware,.161 U. S. 459; [ie 3faria -fartin, -12
Wall. 31, 47. Both the Canadian and American codes provide that in construing and obeying these rules, due regard
must be had to all dangers of navigation and to any special
circumstance which may exist in' any particular case, rendering a departure from them necessary in order to avoid

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

immediate danger. There is another rule pertinant in this.
connection, namely, rule twenty-one, American, and article
eighteen, Canadian, that every vessel when approaching
an6ther vessel so as to involve risk of collision, shall slacken
her speed, or, if necessary, stop and reverse. That the obligation to observe this rule attached to the New York under
the peculiar circumstances of this case is entirely clear. Her
attention had been called to the fact that a steamer -was coming down the river between the rear barge and the Canadian
bank. The channel was narrow, and the descending vessel
had signified her intention to starboard her helm and pass the
New York to the left. The New York avers in her answer
that there was not room enough for any vessel to safely pass
between -her and the Canadian bank, but notwithstanding
this, she kept her course toward that bank, and was thus constantly narrowing the ch~annel through which the Conemaugh signified her intention of passing. She averred that
her speed in passing the tow was about four miles an hour,
but the District Judge was of opinion that she maintained
double that speed until the vessels came together. However
this may be, her failure to answer the whistles of the Conemaugh or to stop andc reverse, after her white light was seen,'
was wholly inexcusable, and, under the particular circumstances, cannot be justified by her general duty as a favored
vessel to keep her course, or by anything that was said by this
court in The B'ritannia,153 U. S. 130. The master of a preferred steamer cannot, by blindly adhering to his course, atone
for the neglect of other precautions.
We do not wish to say that the New York was under any
obligation to assent to the proposed arrangement, although in
starboarding and passing close to the two rear barges she did
-in fact take the exact course she would have taken if she had
.assented. If she had blown one whistle she would have indicated her intention of pursuing her course under her port
wheel -as the privileged vessel; while if she had blown two
whistles she would have starboarded, as she did starboard,
and keep as near the rear barges as she safely could. What
we do decide is that the duty to answer a signal is as impera-

THE NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

tive as the duty to give one. Not only does the second rule
of the Supervising Inspectors require of crossing steamers that
"signals by whistles shall be given and answered promptly,"
but ordinary prudence demands that an obligated steamer
proposing by whistle to deviate from the customary course
shall receive an immediate reply, that her wheel may be at
once put to starboard or port, as the exigencies of the case
may require. A delay of even a few seconds may seriously
embarrass her as to the intention of the preferred vessel.
This is now made obligatory upon vessels navigating the
Great Lakes by the act of February 8, 1895, c. 64, 28 Stat.
645, the twenty-third rule of which declares that "every steam
vessel receiving a signal from another shall promptly respond
with the same signal, or as provided in rule twenty-six." If
the New York had promptly. answered the Conemaugh's signals, probably no collision would have occurred.
The comments we have made upon the failure of the Conemaugh to stop and reverse are equally pertinent to the case
of the New York. If she did not hear the whistles of the
Conemaugh, she ought to have heard them; but irrespective
of this, there was enough to apprise her of her danger in pursuing her course with unabated speed. She knew that she
was about to meet in a narrow channel a steam vessel coming
down upon her with the added speed given by a current of
two to two and a half miles an hour. She heard her final
signal of two blasts as she was passing the last barge, and
should have known that if she continued her course a collision
would be inevitable, and yet she did not stop or reverse. Her
conduct was inexcusable. The lesson that steam vessels must
stop their engines in the presence of danger, or even of anticipated danger, is a hard one to learn, but the failure to do so
has been the cause of the condemnation of so many vessels
that it would seem that these repeated admonitions must
ultimately have some effect. We cannot impress upon the
masters of steam vessels too insistently the necessity of can.tion in passing or crossing the course of other vessels in constricted channels.
But, assuming the theory of the New York to be true, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that as the preferred vessel she was bound to keep her course,
under rule nineteen, the fulfilment of her duty in that regara
undoubtedly added to the embarrassments of the Conemaugh.
It is averred in her answer that after making the white light
of the Conemaugh she continued on her course so as to go
around close to the last barge, and when abreast of her quarter starboarded, so as to go close under her stern. For this.
change in her course she relies upon the case of Jw John L.
Basn'ouck, 93 U. S. 405, in which we held that the obligation
of a privileged vessel to keep her course does not forbid such
necessary variations in her course as will enable her to avoid
immediate danger arising from natural obstructions to navigation. In that case a sailing vessel descending the Hudson
River at West Point was held to have been excused in changing her course to round a projection at that place, but in this
case the New York had still from five to eight hundred feet
before her before reaching the Canadian bank. Her original
porting was undoubtedly to avoid the tow, but there seems
to have been no immediate necessity for her starboarding to
pass so close to the rear barges, though we should not condemn her upon this ground. See discussion of this in ive
Velocity, L. R. 3 P. 0. 44; The Banshee, 6 Asp. M. L. C. 221.
While the presence of the tow undoubtedly rendered it necessary for the New York to port, and thus to become a crossing vessel, and a preferred vessel under rule nineteen, there
was no obstruction to her continuing under her port wheel
until she had approached so near the Canadian bank as to
make it necessary to turn.
The theory of the New York is an inconsistent one -as
inconsistent as that of Conemaugh. She argues that she was
under no obligation to assent to the signals of the Conemaugh
by starboarding her helm. But she did in fact starboard her
helm, and now insists that she did this in discharge of her
duty as a preferred vessel to resume her course after she had
cleared the obstruction. But without deciding that she was
in fault for starboarding, her conduct in so doing adds another
to the many reasons why she should have indicated to the
descending steamer her proposed course. If the Conemaugh

THE NEW YORK.

266--

Opinion of the Court.

recognized the fact that she were the preferred vessel and
bound to hold .her course, it would naturally confuse her to
see the New York suddenly starboarding, exhibit both her
colored lights, and point directly toward her, as she must
have done. The probable explanation of the course of the
New York is that the officer of her deck was so intent upon
watching the lights of the barges that he omitted to notice
the lights of the Conemaugh until the vessels had approached
so near that a collision became extremely probable. The
fact that her lights were seen and her signals heard by the
crews of the Burlington and her barges and by persons standing upon the coal dock, at a greater distance from the Conemaugh than was the lNew York, only indicates more clearly
that her lookout was either insufficient or incompetent. If
he actually saw her and reported her to the officers of the
deck, the responsibility is only shifted from the lookout to
them.
Our conclusions are that the Conemaugh was in fault:
For not stopping, when the New York failed to answer her
signals;
For porting and then starboarding in order to cross the
bow of the New York;
and the New York:
For an inefficient lookout;
For failing to answer the repeated signals of the Conemaugh; and
For failure to stop, after she made the white light of the
Conemaugh, until her course and movements had been satis.
factorily ascertained.
4. The final question arises upon the insistence of the
underwriters of the Conemaugh's cargo, that they are entitled
to a recovery to the full amount of their damages against the
New York, notwithstanding the Conemaugh may also be in
fault for the collision. They.are correct in this contention.
Indeed, this court has already so decided in the case of The
Atlas, 93 U. S. 302, 315, 317. This was a libel against the
Atlas by an insurer of the cargo of a canal boat in tow of the
steam tug Kate, whereby the canal boat and her cargo were
VOL. CLXXV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lost. It was insisted by the claimant that, as the libellant
had failed-to make the Kate a party, and as both vessels were
found to be: in fault for the collision, there could be a recovery
of only a moiety of the damages. The case of The .ilan,
Lusli. 388, was confidently relied uponas an authority. This
court, bow-ever, was of opinion that a plaintiff, who has suffered a loss by the negligence of two parties, was at liberty,
both at common law and in admiralty, to sue both wrongdoers or either one of them at his election, and "it is equally
clear, that, if he did not contribute to the disaster, he is
entitled to judgment in either case for the full amount of his
loss. He may proceed against all the wrongdoers jointly, or
he may sue them all or any one of them separately.
Co-wrongdoers; not parties to the suit, cannot be decreed to
pay-any portion of the damage adjudged to the libellant, nor
is it a question in this case whether the party served' may
have process to compel the other wrongdoers to appear and
respond to the alleged wrongful act." A like ruling was
made in The Juniata,93 U. S. 337, inwhich a libel was filed
by the United States as owner of the cargo of a flatboat in
tow of one of two vessels.
The decree of the Court of Appeals istherefore reversed and
the case remanded to the District Court for the Eastern
District of .Michigan for further proceedings in consonance with this opinion. Costs will be divided ejually.
On the 7th of December, 1899, this decree was reversed, the
claimants of the Conemaugh and the claimants of the
New York were ordered each to pay one half of all costs
in the cause, and the cause was remanded to the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
3.ichigan,with directions to enter a decree, in conformity
with the opinion of this court, with interest from July 3,
1896, until paid, at the same rate per annum that decrees
bear in the courts of the State of Xichigan.

