METROPOLITAN LIFE INS. CO. v. NEW' ORLEANS. 395
205 U. S2

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

METROPOLITAN

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF

NEW YORK v. CITY OF NEV ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE 4)F'LOUISIANA.
No. 199.

Argued January 31, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Neither the fiction that personal property follows the domicil of the owner,
nor the doctrine that credits evidenced by notes have the situs of the
latter, can be allowed to obscure the truth; and personal property may
be taxed at its permanent abiding place although the domicil of the
owner is elsewhere.
Where a non-resident enters into the business of loaning money within a
State and employs a local agent to conduct the business, the State may
tax the capital employed precisely as it taxes the capital of its own citizens, in like situation, and may assess the credits arising out of the business, and the foreigner cannot escape taxation upon his capital by temporarily removing from the State the evidences of credits which, under
such circumstances, have a taxable situs in the State of their, origin.
Loans made by a New York life insurance company on its own policies
in Louisiana are taxable in that State although* the notes may be
temporarily sent to the home office.
115 Louisiana, 698, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Pollard Cocke, with whom Mr. William Wirt
Howe and Mr. Walker B. Spencer were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The property sought to be taxed was beyond the limits
and jurisdiction of the State of Louisiana, and the statute of
Louisiana of '1898, as construed and applied, deprives the
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of law,
in 'violation of the Fourt-eenth Amendment. State Tax on
Foreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Railroad Co. v. Jackson,
7 Wall. 262; Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432, 440; Erie
RailroadCo. v. Pennsylvania, 153 U. S. 628-648; Net Orleans v.
Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, and Board of Assessors v. Contptoir
National d'Escompte, 191 U. S. 389, distinguished.
The Supreme Court 6f Louisiana cannot be held to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

205 U. S.

decided that any statute of Louisiana imposed on plaintiff i-a
error, as a condition to doing business in the State, payment of
taxes on property in its hands beyond the jurisdiction of
the State. But, if the court did so decide, plaintiff in error
may, nevertheless, assert in this court that the statute is
unconstitutional.
The State cannot by statute validly exact from a foreign
corporation, as a condition, either to entering the State, or as
a condition to continuing to do business therein, an agreement or stipulation that it will not avail itself of the rights and
privileges conferred on it by the Federal Constitution. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Doyle v, Continental Ins.
Co., 94 U. S.. 335; Barrow v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202; Barrow Steamship Co. v.
Kane, 170 U. S. 100; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239; Security Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.257.
The utmost that the State can do is to provide that any
foreign corporation which asserts a right or privilege under
the Federal Constitution shall be deprived of its license to do
business in the State. Its power, in other words, may be
exerted to punish,"but not to prevent, an appeal to constitutional immunity. Security Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt,
supra.
Mr. F. C. Zacharie,Mr. George H. Terriberryand Mr. H. Garland Dupre, with Whom Mr. Samuel L. Gilmore was on the
brief, for defendants in error:
The Supreme Court of Louisiana having decided that there
was nothing in the constitution and laws of Louisiana, opposed
to tIke taxing of these notes, this court willnot go behind the
decision of the highest court of the State upon this point.
Michigan Central R. R, Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S.291.
In Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189, and Washington
County v. Bristol, 177 U. S., 133, this court affirmed the
power of state 'taxation of notes which were given in the State
and were payable in the State,, although the notes were held

METROPOLITAN LIFE INS. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 397
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in New York until such time as it became necessary to collect
or renew them. This was (lone by forwarding the notes back
to the agent in the State which was the domicil of the debtor;
MR. JUSTICE MOODY. delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, which sustained a tax on' the "credits,
money loaned, bills receivable," etc., of the plaintiff in error,
a life insurance company incorporated under the laws of
New York, where it had its home office and principal place of
business. It issued policies of life insurance in the State of
Louisiana and, for the purpose of doing that and other business,
had a resident agent, called a superintendent, whose duty
it was to superintend the company's business generally in
the State. The agent had a local office in New Orleans. The
company was engaged in the business of lending money to
the holders of its policies, which, when they had reached a
certain point of maturity,- were regarded as furnishing adequate security for loans. The money lending was conducted
in the following manner: The policy holders desiring to obtain
loans on their policies applied to the company's agent. in
New Orleans. If the agent thought a loan a desirable one
he advised the company of the application by communicating
with the home office in New York, and requested that the
loan be granted. If the home office approved the loan the
company forwarded to the agent a check for the amount,
with a note to be signed by the borrower. The agent procured the note to be signed, attached the policy to it, and
forwarded both note and policy to the home office in New York.
He then delivered to the borrower the amount of the loan.
When interest was due upon the notes it was paid to the agent
and by him transmitted to the home office. It does hot appear
whether or not the notes were returned to New Orleans for
the endorsement of the payments of interest. When the
notes were paid it was to the agent, to whom they were sent

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

to be delivered back to the makers. At all other times the
notes and policies securing them were kept at the home office
in New York. The disputed tax was not eo nomine 'on these
notes, but was expressed to be on "credits, money loaned,
bills receivable," etc., and its amount was ascertained by
computing the sum of the face value of all the notes held by
the. company at the time of the assessment. The tax was
assessed under a law, Act 170 of 1898, which provided for 'a
levy of annual taxes on the assessed value of all property,
situated within the State of Louisiana, and in Section 7 provided as follows:
"That it is the duty of the tax assessors throughout the
State to place upon the assessment list all property subject
to taxation, including merchandise or stock in trade on hand
at the date of listing within their respective districts or parishes.
...
And provided further, In assessing mercantile firms
the true intent and purpose of this act shall be held to mean
the placing of such value upon stock in trade, all cash, whether
borrowed or not, money at interest, open accounts, credits, &c.,
as will represent in their aggregate a fair average on the capital,
both cash and credits, employed in the business of the party
or parties to be assessed. And this shall apply with equal
force to any person or persons representing in this State business
interests that may claim domicile elsewhere, the intent and
purpose being that no non-resident, either by himself or through
any agent, shall transact business here without paying to the
State a corresponding tax with that exacted of its own citizens;
and all bills receivable, obligations or credits arising from the
business done in this State are hereby declared as assessable
within this State and at the business domicile of said non-,
resident, his agent or representative."
The evident purpose of this law is to lay the burden of
taxation equally upon those who do business within the State.
It reqtiires that in the Valuation for the purposes of taxation
of the property of mercantile firms the stock, goods and
credits shall be taken into account, to the end that the average

METROPOLITAN LIFE INS. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.39g
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

capital employed in the business shall be taxed. This meth6,
of assessment is applied impartially to the citizens of the
State and to the citizens of other States or countries doing
business, personally or through agents, within the State of
Louisiana. To accomplish this result, the law expressly provides that "all bills receivable, obligations or credits arising
from the business done in this State shall be assessable at the
business domicile of the resident." Thus it is clear that the
measure of the taxation designed by the law is the fair average
of the capital employed in the business. Cash and credits
and bills receivable are to be taken into account merely because
they represent the capital and are not'to be omitted because
their owner happens to have a domicile in another State.
The law was so construed by the Supreme Oourt of Louisiana,
where, in sustaining the assessment, it was said:
"There can be no doubt that the seventh section of the
act of 1898, quoted in the judgment of the District Court,
announced the policy of the State touching the taxation of
credits and bills of exchange representing an amount of the
property of non-residents equivalent or corresponding to
said bills or credits which was utilized by them in the prosecution of their business in the State of Louisiana. The evident
object of the statute was to do away with discrimination
theretofore existing in favor of non-residents as against residents, and place them on an equal footing. The statute was
not arbitrary but a legitimate exercise of legislative power,
and discretion."
The tax was levied in obedience to the law of the State,
and the only question here is whether there is anything in
the Constitution of the United States which forbids it. The
answer to that question depends upon whether the property
taxed was within the territorial jurisdiction of the State.
Property situated without that jurisdiction is beyond the
State's taxing power, and the exaction of a tax upon it is in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
Louisville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U.,S. 385; Delaware &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194. But personal
property may be taxed in its permanent abiding place, although the domicile of the owner is elsewhere. It is usually
easy to determine the taxable situs of tangible personal property. But where personal property is intangible, and consists, as in this case, of credits reduced to the concrete form
of promissory notes, the inquiry is complicated, not only by
the fiction that the domicile of personal property follows
that of its owner, but also by the doctrine, based upon historical reasons, that where debts have assumed the form of
bonds or other specialties, they are regarded for some purposes as being the property itself, and not the mere representative"of it, and may have a taxable situs of their own. How
far promissory notes are assimilated to specialties in respect
of this doctrine, need not now be considered.
The question in this case is controlled by the authority of
the previous decisions of this court. Taxes under this law
of Louisiana have been twice considered here, and assessments
upon credits arising out of investments in the State have been
sustained. A tax on credits evidenced by notes secured by
mortgages was sustained where the owner, a non-resident who
had inherited them, left them in Louisiana in the possession of
an agent, who collected the principal and interest as they
became due. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309. Again,
it was held that where a foreign banking company did business
in New Orleans, and through ah agent lent money which was
evidenced by checks drawn upon the agent, treated as overdrafts and secured by collateral, the checks and collateral
remaining in the hands of the agent until the transactions
were closed, the credits thus evidenced were taxable in Louisiana. Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S.
388. In both of these cases the written evidences of the
credits were continuously present in the State, and their
presence was clearly the dominant factor in the decisions.
Here the notes, though present in the State at all times when

METROPOLITAN LIFE INS. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS. 401
205. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they were needed, were not continuously present, and during
the greater part of their lifetime were absent and at their
owner's domicile. Between these, two decisions came the
case of Bristol v. Washington County,. 177 U. S. 133. It appeared in that case that a resident of New York was engaged
through an agent in the business of lending money in Minnesota,
secured by mortgages on real property. The notes were made
to the order of the non-resident, though payable in Minnesota,
and the mortgages ran to her. The agent made the loans,
took and kept the notes and securities, collected the interest
andreceived payment. The property thus invested'continued
finally th'e
to be taxed without protest in Minnesota,
course of business was changed by sending the notes to the
domicile of the owner in New York, where they were kept by
her. The mortgages were, however, retained by the. agent
in Minnesota,' though his power to discharge them was. revoked. The interest, was paid to the agent and the notes
forwarded to him for collection when due. Taxes levied after
this change in the business were in dispute in the case. In
delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller
said: "Nevertheless, the business of loaning money through.
the agency in Minnesota was continued during all these years,
just as it had bden carried on before, aid we agree with the
Circuit Court that the fact that the notes were sent to Mrs. Bristol in New Yoik, and the fact of the revocation of the power
of attorney, did not exempt these investments from-taxation
under the statutes as expounded in the decisions to which we,
"
aye referred . . .
.until

h

Referring to the case of New Orleans v. Stempel, the Chief
Justice said:
"There the moneys, notes and evidences 'of credits were in
fact in Louisiana, though their owners resided elsewhere.
Still, under the circumstances of the case before us, we think,
as we have said, that the mere sending of the notes to New
York and the revocation of the power of attorney did Aot take
these vestments out of the rule.
VOL. ccv- 26

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

"Persons are not permitted to avail themselves, for their
own benefit, of the laws of a State in the conduct of business
within its limits, and then to escape their due contribution to
the public need, through action of this sort, whether taken
for convenience or by design."
Accordingly it was held that the tax was not forbidden by
the Federal Constitution.
In this case, the controlling consideration was the presence
in the State of the' capital employed in the business of lending
money, and the fact that the notes were not continuously
present was regarded as immaterial. It is impossible to distinguish the case now before us from the Bristol case. Here
the loans were negotiated, the notes signed, the security taken,
the 'interest collected, and the debts paid within the State.
The notes and securities were in Louisiana whenever the business exigencies required them to be there. Their removal
with the intent that they shall return whenever needed, their
long continued though not permanent absence, cannot have
the effect of releasing them as the representatives of investments in business in the State from its taxing power. The
law may well regard the place of their origin, to which they
intend*to return, as their true home, and leave out of account
temporary absences, however long continued. Moreover,
neither the fiction that personal property follows the domicile
of its owner, nor the doctrine that credits. evidenced by bonds
or notes may have the situs of the latter, can be allowed to
obscure the truth. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189. We
are not dealing here merely with a single credit or a series of
separate credits, but with a business. The insurance company chose to enter into the business of lending money within
the State of Louisiana, and employed a local agent to conduct that business. It was conducted under the laws of the
State. The State un~tertook to tax the capital employed in
the business precisely as it taxed the capital of its own citizens
in like situation. For the purpose of arriving at the amount
of capital actually employed, it caused the credits arising

BEHN v. CAMPBELL.
Statement; of the Case.

205 U. S.

out of the business to be assessed. We think the State had
the power to do this, and that the foreigner doing business
cannot escape taxation upon his capital by removing temporarily from the State evidences of credits in the form of
notes. Under such circumstances, they have a taxable situs
in the State of their origin.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Affirmed.

BEHN, MEYER & CO. v. CAMPBELL & GO TAUCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 227.

Argued March 7, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

In the absence of modification by statute the rule in respect to all courts
whose records are brought for review to this court is that ,errors alleged
to have been committed in an action at law can be reviewed here only by
writ of error; but this court has always observed the rule recognized by
legislation that while an appeal brings up questions of fact a6 well as of
law, on writ of error only questions of law apparent on the record can be
considered, and there can be no inquiry whether there was error in dealing
with questions of fact.
In reviewing judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
the same rule applies as does irn reviewing judgments of the Circuit Court
of the United States that alleged errors of law not stated in the assignment
of errors filed with the petition for the writ of error will be disregarded
unless they are so plain that under the provision in the thirty-fifth rule
to that effect the court may at its option notice them, but this court will
not subject the opinion of the court below to minute scrutiny to discover
error of law when on the whole it is clear, as in this case, that the facts
found by that court justify the judgment under review.
THE defendants in error, hereinafter called the plaintiffs,
brought an action in the Court of First Instance of the city of
Manila in the Philippine .Islands, to recover from the plaintiff
in error, hereinafter called the defendant, the sum of 9,250.62
pesos, alleged to be due on account of labor and materials
furnished under a building contract and its modifications.
The defendant among other defenses set up first, that the labor

