BARRINGTON v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

BARRINGTON v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
No. 493.

OF MISSOURI.

Submitted April 8, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.

Although the brief alleges that certain Federal questions were duly raised
in the state court and so disposed of as to sustain the jurisdiction of this
court, if those questions are wholly without merit, or foreclosed by previous decisions of this court, the writ of error will be dismissed; and held
that rulings of the state court in a criminal case in regard to change of
venue, admission of evidence, and form of indictment were not subject
to review in this court and afforded 'no basis for holding that plaintiff in
error was not awarded due process of law.
Article V of Amendments to the Constitution does not operate as a restriction on the powers of the State, but solely upon the Federal Government.
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172.
Under the laws of Missouri the right of accused to the endorsement of. names
of witnesses on the indictment does not rest on the common law but on
state statute, and whether the provisions have been complied with is not
a Federal question and the decision of the state court is not open to reVision here.

The question of citizenship is immaterial as affecting the jurisdiction of
this court under § .709, Rev. Stat. As a general rule aliens are subject to
the law of the territory where the crime is committed.
No treaty gives to subjects of Great Britain any different measure of justice
than that secured to citizens:of this country.
Writ of error to review, 95 S. W. Rep. 235, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William G. Johnson, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Herbert S. Hadley, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, and Mr. John Kennish, Assistant Attorney General,,
for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error was found guilty of murder in the first degree
in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri, and, after

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment were made and
overruled, judgment was rendered on the verdict and sentence
passed accordingly. The case was carried to the Supreme
Court of the State and the judgment was affirmed ,by Division
No. 2 of that court, having appellate juiisdiction of criminal

cases.

No Federal question was referred to in the opinion of

the court. A motion for rehearing was filed, wherein Federal
questions were sought to be raised. The court denied the
motion without opinion.
Plaintiff in error then movedfor the transfer of the cause to
the court in bane, setting forth certain Federal questions, and
the cause was transferred. The court in bane adopted the
opinion of Division No. 2 as its opinion and the judgment was
again affirmed. 95 S. W. Rep. 235. A motion for rehearing
assuming to raise Federal questions was filed and denied without opinion. This writ of error was thereupon brought and
comes before us on motions to dismiss or affirm.
No assignment of errors was returned with the writ as required by § 997 of the Revised Statutes, nor is there in the
brief of counsel for plaintiff in error on these motions any
specification of errors under Rule 21, but the brief does allege
that certain Federal questions were duly raised and so disposed
of as to sustain the jurisdiction of this court.
But if these questions are wholly without merit or are no
longer open by reason of our previous decisions, it.has long been
settled that the writ of error should be dismissed.
1. Before. the trial of the cause was commenced plaintiff in
error, applied for a change of venue on. the ground of local
prejudice.
The application was heard at length, and forty-one witnesses
testified in its support and thirty-seven witnesses: in opposition
thereto; and the trial court decided that prejudice justifying
a change of venue had not been made out, and denied the
application. It is now contended that the refusal to grant
the change of venue deprived plaintiff in error of a fair and
impartial trial, to which, under the Federal Constitution, he

BARRINGTON v. MISSOURI.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was entitled. The state Supreme Court held it to be a wellsettled rule of law in Missouri that the granting of a change of
venue in a criminal case rested largely in the discretion of the
trial court, and that "where the trial court has heard the evidence in favor of and against the application, and a conclusion
reached adversely to granting the change, such ruling will not
be disturbed by this court, and should not be unless there are
circumstances of such a nature as indicates an abuse of the
discretion lodged in such court." And the Supreme Court,
after a full review of all the testimony, decided that the trial
court had acted properly in overruling the application for a
change of venue. In our judgment no Federal question was
involved. Were this otherwise it would follow that we could
decide in any case that the trial court had abused its discretion
under the laws of the State of Missouri, although the Supreme
Court of that State had held to the contrary.,
2. It is also contended that plaintiff in error "set up and
claimed that, under the Federal Constitution, as well as under
the constitution 'of Missouri, he could not be compelled to give
testimony against himself, and that this exemption and protection were denied to him by the court in permitting to be
given in evidence against himalleged extra-judicial admissions'
extorted from him while under arrest by .he police officers of
the State." Certain statements made by plaintiff in error,
defendant below, were admitted in evidence on the trial, but
it does not appear that counsel objected to the introduction of
this testimony on the ground that any rights, privileges or
immunities of defendant under the Constitution of the United
States were thereby violated. Counsel for the State offered
in evidence certain articles taken from defendant's trunk, and
this was objected to on the ground that they were taken in
violation of the state constitution and without defendant's
consent. The objection was not passed upon, and the articles
were withdrawn. The trunk and its contents were again
offered in evidence and objected to, but the objection was
based entirely upon the ground of irrelevancy and immateriality

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

and the fact that a proper foundation had not been laid in the
identification'of the trunk.
When the State offered in evidence the statements made by
defendant following his arrest, the trial court excluded the jury
and heard the testimony of the persons present at the time
for the purp6se of determining the competency thereof. After
the examination of a number of witnesses, who detailed fully
the circumstances under which the statements were made,
counsel objected "because there is no foundation laid for it
and because it was [not] voluntary." This objection was
overruled and the evidence admitted.
The state Supreme Court held that the trial court in admitting the testimony did not commit error. This notwithstanding the constitution of Missouri provided "That no person
shall be compelled to testify against himself in a criminal case."
Its ruling upon that proposition is not subject to review in
this court.
After the decision of the Supreme Court in banc affirming
the judgment, plaintiff in error filed a petition for rehearing
which' was denied without opinion. The third ground of that
motion was as follows: "Because counsel for appellant, through
neglect and inadvertence, failed to call the attention of the
court to the proposition that the cross-examination of appellant
complained of as 'improper,' and the admission as evidence of
statements or 'confessions' made by appellant while in the
'sweat box' of the St. Louis police department, was in direct
violation of the Constitution of the United States, Article V,
amendments to the Constitution of the United States, in that
it compelled the'appellant to become a witness against himself."
The suggestion came too late, and, moreover, Article V of the
amendments, alone relied on, does not operate as a ," restriction
of the powers of the State, but was intended to operate solely
upon the Federal Government." Brown v. New Jersey, 175
U. S. 172. And if, as decided, the admission of this testimony
did not violate the rights of the plaintiff in error under the
constitution and laws of the State of Missouri, the record

BARRINGTON v. MISSOURI.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

affords no basis for holding that he was not awarded due process
of law. Howard v. Fleming, 191 U. S. 126.
3. Plaintiff in error filed a demurrer to the indictment, one of
the grounds of which was: "Because of the inconsistency
multiplicity and repugnancy of said counts, the defendant is
being proceeded against in violation of the state and Federal
guarantee of due process of law and in violation of his constitutional right to be specifically informed of the nature and cause
of the accusation against him." The demurrer was overruled.
And also a motion to quash, assigning similar grounds, which
was likewise overruled.
These rulings in respect of the sufficiency of the indictment
present no Federal question. Howard. v. Fleming, 191. U. S.
126, 135, and cases cited.
4. After the demurrer and motion to quash had been disposed
of, plea in abatement was filed, averring that the prosecuting
attorney intentionally refrained from endorsing the names of
certain witnesses on the indictment; that defendant was a
native of Great Britain and a subject of the King and that by
virtue of treaties, the law of nations, the laws and Constitution
of the United States, and the laws of Missouri, defendant was
entitled to know who were the witnesses against him.
A similar point, with like allegations, was made in the motion
to quash. The court heard the evidence on the plea in abatement and found the issues against defendant, except that it
found that he was a native citizen and subject of Great Britain.
The question of citizenship is immaterial as affecting the.
jurisdiction of this court under § 709, Rev. Stat. French v.
Hopkins, 124 U. S. 524. Nor are we aware, as- Chief Justice
Waite said in Spies v. Illinois, 123.U. S. 131, 182, of any treaty
giving to subjects of Great Britain any different measure of
justice than secured to citizens of this country. And the
general rule of law is that aliens are subject to the law of the
territory where the crime is committed. Wildenhus's Case,
120 U. S. 1; Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 147; People v.
McLeod, 1 Hill (N. Y.), 377; Wharton, Conflict of Laws, §819.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

As to the allegation that the prosecuting attorney intentionally refrained from endorsing the names of certain witnesses
on the indictment in the motion to quash, as well as in the plea
in abatement, the state courts'held that the charge was not
sustained by the evidence.
The right of the accused to the endorsement of names of
witnesses does not rest on the common law, but is statutory
and provided for -in Missouri by § 2517 of the Revised Statutes
.of 1899, whereby the right of the State to use other witnesses
not so endorsed is recognized. The state Supreme Court discussed the matter at length, held there was no error, and
added: "Aside from all this it is manifest that the defendant
has no rightto complain of any prejudicial error upon the action
of the court upon this motion. This motion was filed October 6,
1903, and the record discloses upon the showing made upon
such motion and plea in abatement that appellant had notice of
these additional witnesses which were introduced by the State
at the trial. The trial did not occur until the 23d of February,
1904, some three or four months subsequent to the time of
which the record discloses that he had notice of these wit,nesses."
The decision of the Supreme Court. that defendant had been
tried in accordance with the, procedure provided by the statutes
of Missouri is not open to revision here in the circumstances.
We have not been astute to apply to these motions the rigor
of our rules, and have explored the record -with care, but. have
not found' therein any denial of fundamental rights, of due
process of law or of the equal protection of the laws. The
Federal questions asserted in the brief or suggested by the
record are wholly inadequate to justify our interference.
Writ oj 6-ror dismissed.

