OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Sylblabus.

205 IT. S.

mate where the danger is so obvious and imminent that no
ordinarily prudent man would assume the risk of injury therefrom. But where the danger, though present and appreciated,
is one which many men are in the habit of assuming, and which
prudent men who must earn a living are willing to assume for
extra compensation, one who assumes the risk cannot be said

to be guilty of contributory negligence if, having in view the
risk of danger assumed, he uses care reasonably commensurate
with the risk to avoid injurious consequences. One who does
not use such care, and who, by reason thereof, suffers injury,
is guilty of contributory negligence, and cannot recover,
because he, and not the master, causes the injury, or because
they jointly cause it."
For tfiese reasons I dissent from the opinion and judgment,
and am authorized to say that Ma. JUSTICE PECKHAM, MR.
JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

TINSLEY v. TREAT, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 369.

Argued December 3, 4, 1906.-Decided March 4, 1907.

A district judge of the United States on application to remove from the
district where defendant is arrested to that where the offense is triable
acts judicially and the provision of § 1014, Rev. Stat., that the proceedings are to be conducted agreeably to the usual mode of process in the
State against offenders has no application to the inquiry on application
-for removal.
While in a removal pro'ceeding under § 1014, Rev. Stat., an indictment
constitutes prima facie evidence of probable cause it is not conclusive,
and evidence offered by the defendant tending toshow that no offense
triable .in the district to which removal is sought had been committed
is admissible; and its exclusion is not mere error but the denial of a right
secured under the Federal Constitution.

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.
THE

21

Argument tor Appellants.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John J. Vertrees and Mr. John S. Miller, with whom
Mr. Henry A. M. Smith, Mr. James C. Bradford, Mr. James P.
Helm, Mr. Marcellus Green and Mr. Garner Wynn Green
were on the brief, for appellants in this case and in numbers
370-379, argued simultaneously herewith-,
In habeas corpus removal proceedingis instituted to prevent
the removal of an "offender" under § 1014, Rev. Stat., when
a certified copy of the indictment is the only evidence introduced by the Government to show the existence of probable
cause, it is the right of the "offender" to present evidence
that proves the absence of probable cause; that he is innocent of the offense charged in the indictment, or that the
court has no jurisdiction.
This right exists also on the hearing *before the judge of
the district upon an application to him for an order of removal.
In re Doig, 4 Fed. Rep. 194, 195; In re Price,83 Fed. Rep. 830;
United States v. Pope, Fed. Cases, No. 16,069; In re Wood,
95 Fed. Rep. 288; United States v. Fowkes, 49 Fed. Rep. 50;
53 Fed. Rep. 13; In re Wolf, 27 Fed. Rep,'606; In re Greene,
52 Fed. Rep. 104; United States v. Greene, 100 Fed. Rep. 941;
United States v. Lee, 84 Fed. Rep. 626; United States v. Greene,
108 Fed. Rep. 816; In re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886; Ex parte
Rickett, 61,Fed. Rep. 203; Price v. McCarty, 89 Fed. Rep. 84;
United States v. Rodgers, 23 Fed. Rep. 661; United States v.
Brawner, 7 Fed. Rep. 86; In re Buell, 4 Fed. Cases, No. 2102;
United States v. Voltz, Fed. Cases, No. 16,627; United States v.
Haskins, Fed. Cases, No. 15,322; United States v. Shepard,
Fed. Cases, No. 16,273; In re Alexander, Fed. Cases, No. 162;
In re Beshears, 79 Fed. Rep. 70; In re Terrill, 51 Fed. Rep.
213; In re Corning, 51 Fed. Rep. 205.
For various questions involved in removals decided by
this court, see Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 207; Gredne
1 See p. 33, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

205 U. S.

v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249; Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73;
Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62.
Text-writers sustain appellants' contention, Hughes' Crim.
Proc., §§ 15-17, p. 29, and so does the Attorney-General of
the United States. Ops. Atty. Gen., 1904, p. 3.
The question of jurisdiction under the Federal Constitution is one far-reaching and fundamental. Under the statute,
the party accused is to be bound over for trial before such
court of the United States as by law has cognizance of the
offense. Under the Constitution, the only court of the United States which has cognizance is a court of the United,
States sitting and trying the case in the State and district
wherein the crime shall have been committed. If, therefore,
the application to the magistrate be to commit the prisoner
for trial in a State and district in which the crime shall not
have been committed, it is evident that the application would
have to be refused. The injunctions of the law-constitutional and statutory-are imperative. The effect of an
indictment found as proof of probable cause before the Commissioner has also been adjudicated by this court. See Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 84.
From the beginning of the Government the universal holding of the United States courts has been upon the question
of innocence or guilt, that the indictment was only probative
and prima facie and that the accused had the right to submit
testimony in rebuttal of its effect as showing probable cause.
A fortiori, could its effect be no greater than merely prima
facie and the party be entitled to rebut, its effect by evidence
to the contrary. The rule that -a- copy of the indictment,
nothing else appearing, ought to be accepted as sufficient, is
not only convenient for the Government, but does no injustice
to the accused. In the absence of exculpatory evidence, a copy
of .the indictment may well be accepted as-equivalent to an
affidavit, as sufficient authority for remoVal. In that sense
it is prima facie evidence of probable cause. Itis treated as
evidence, and a- being sufficient -under such circumstances;

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

but when it is said that there must be evidence of probable
cause, it means that the court should be satisfied that there
is evidence on which a jury may convict. United States v.
Fowkes, 49 Fed. Rep. 52; or at least proof furnishing good
reasons to believe that the crime alleged has been committed
by the accused. United States v. Burr, 25 Fed. Cas. No. 14,692a."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for appellees:
The action of the court below was correct.
In Virginia one indicted for crime is not entitled to a preliminary -oxamination before being put on trial. Virginia
Code Ann. (Pollard) 1904, § 4003 and note; § 4012; Jones's
case, 86 Virginia, 661.
Before the District Judge 'no question was raised as to sufficiency of the indictment. After examination it was held
valid by both judges below, and in view of their conclusion
cannot be said to be obviously bad. In the present proceeding neither this nor the trial court should inquire with great
particularity as to technicalities. Such points should- be
considered and the legal sufficiency of the indictment determined only by the court in which it was found. Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 10.
No court on habeas corpus can be required to pass upon
them in advance of a trial in the court of the indictment.
Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 577; Riggins v. United
States, 199 U. S. 547.
Identity was admitted and no extraordinary facts suggested
to indicate bad faith or any peculiar hardships which would
result from removal, and the examining judge decided it was
his duty to direct the same.
One charged with an offense against the United States
must be arrested and committed as though similarly charged
with crime against the State. The duties of the Federal
judge in reference to removal begin after the accused has been
committed and the language of the statute seems to make
it obligatory upon him to direct a removal upon application.

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1906.

Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

It certainly does not in terirs require him to hear proof and
conduct an inquiry as to guilt or innocence. The removal
of Witnesses and offenders is put on the same basis. No
doubt the Federal judge should inquiie into the regularity of
arrest and comnmitrnent and see that they. harmonize with the
law of the State; and in extraordinlry cases possibly he might
go further. If hQ finds the proceedings entirely regular he
should issue the warrant. At inost he has a certain discretion,
to be sparingly exercised to prevent wrong, and not to be interfered with unless it be in cases of manifest abuse.
The object of § 1014 was to afford an expeditious mode for
arresting and bringing one accused, to trial under the ordinary
safeguards prescribed by state law; and the questions preliminary to arrest and commitment were understood to be
within the ability of a justice of the peace to decide. See
Benson v.,Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62;
Benson v. McMahon, 127 U. S. 457; Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161
U. S. 502; In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614.
MR. CHIEP JUSTiciE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In May, 1906, the grand jury in the United States Circuit
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee returned an indictment against thirty corporations, two partnerships, and
twenty-five persons, as defendants. This indictment contained six counts. Generally speaking, the first, second,
fourth and fifth charged the defendants with violating section 1
of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1890, entitled "An
'act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints
and monopolies;" and the third and sixth counts charged
-them under.section 5440 of the Revised Statutes. In July,
1906, the Government presented to the District Judge of the
Eastern District of Virginia, at Richmond, a complaint made
by Morgan Treat, United States Marshal, alleging that he
believed James G. Tinsley stood indicted as aforesaid, and

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

annexing a certified copy of the indictment as a part of the
complaint, and praying that Tinsley might "be arrested and
imprisoned and removed or bailed, as the 'case may be, for
trial'before the said Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Tennesse6, and further dealt with according
to law." Tinsley was arrested and taken directly before the
district judge, who acted as committing magistrate as well
as'the judge to order removal. In the proceedings before the
'district judge, Tinsley admitted that he was one of the defendants named in the indictment. The Government relied
on the certified copy of the indictment, and offered no evidence
except that; and asked for an order-to be made for Tinsley's
commitment and removal forthwith.
The record of those proceedings states:
"And thereupon the defendant, J. G. Tinsley, offered
himself as witness in his own behalf, and being about to be
sworn, the United States, by its counsel, thereupon objected
to the witness being sworn or to any testimony being given in
rebuttal of the indictment in these proceedings, on the ground
that the identity of the defendant being admitted, inasmuch
as the indictment on its face charges offenses against the
United States committed and triable in the jurisdiction in
which the defendant stands indicted, no evidence is admissible
here to impeach the indictment, and the order of commitment
should be made without other proof.
"The defendant's counsel thereupon offered to prove by
the defendant and other witnesses then and there present,
that the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Tennessee
had no jurisdiction over the person of said defendant touching
the offenses charged in said indictment, in that defendant
and said other witnesses would, if permitted, testify that defendant is, and has been for many years, a resident and citizen
of the city of Richmond, State of Virginia, and that defendant
never at any time, or at any place in the State of Tennessee,
at the times charged in the indictment, did or performed, or
was party to, or engaged in any act or thing in the said indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court..

205 U. S.

ment charged as having been done and performed in any way
whatsoever by this defendant in the said State of Tennessee;
nor has defendant done, or performed, or been engaged in,
or a party to the same or any of them in any other place or
places at any other time or times whatsoever.
"Thereupon counsel for the Government renewed its objections as aforesaid.
"After hearing counsel on both sides, the court announced
its conclusions as follows:
"'The conclusion reached by the court is that in a proceeding
for the arrest and removal of persons charged with a violation
of the laws of the United States pursuant to section 1014 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, before a United
States District Judge, sitting in the State of Virginia, in which
State there no longer exists the right, of a preliminary examination upon a crime charged prior to the trial upon the
merits, when said judge is called upon to act as well in the
matter of the apprehension of such persons, as in their removal to the jurisdiction in which they have been indicted,
that upon'the government's .presentation of a sufficient indictment regularly found by a grand jury in a court of the
United States, properly charging the commission of an offense
within the district in which such indictment is found, coupled
with proof of the identity of the person indicted, it is its duty
to properly bail such person for appearance before the court
in whi'ch he is indicted, or cause him to be removed thereto.' "
It was then ruled that the testimony offered was inadmissible, and the District Judge ordered that the accused
either give bail or be held for removal. Tinsley declined to
give bond, a warrant directing removal to the Middle District
of Tennessee was issued, and he remained in custody pending
its execution. No objection was offered to the indictment
at any time during the proceedings before the District Judge.
The District Judge should not have allowed himself to be
controlled by the statutes of Virginia. In that commonwealth
it appears to have been formerly required that after indict-

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment an examination should be had, but by subsequent legislation it was provided that where an indictment had been
found, a capias should be issued for the arrest of the' defendant, and no inquiry was to be made. But when there was no
indictment a person arrested for an indictable offense must
be taken before a magistrate for preliminary examination,
and it was the magistrate's duty to inquire whether or not
there was sufficient cause for charging the accused with the
offense. Pollard's Annotated Virginia Code, §,§
3955, 3969,
4003;. Jones v. Commonwealth, 86 Virginia, 661.

But, as hereinafter seen, the District Judge on application
to remove acts judicially, and that part of section 1014 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States which says that the
proceedings are to be conducted "agreeably to the usual
mode of process against offenders in such State," has no relation to the inquiry on application for removal.
Application was then made to the Circuit Court for writs of
habeas c6rpus and certiorari, which were granted and due
returns made. The petition alleged that Tinsley was unlawfully restrained of his liberty by the marshal, under color
*of authority of the United States by virtue of a warrant for
removal claimed to have been issued under section 1014, Revised Statutes. it set forth in full the proceedings taken
before the District Judge and the rulings and orders made
during the hearing. It was charged that under and by virtue
of clause 3, section 2, article 3, of the Constitution, and of the
Sixth Amendment he was entitled to be tried, and could only
be tried for any alleged offense against the United States in
the State and district where the offenses charged in the indictment were committed; that the offenses specified in the
indictment were not committed in the Middle District of
Tennessee; that none of the acts supposed to have been engaged in by petitioner were done within that district; that
the indictment stated no offense and was insufficient and
void. It was further alleged that the warrant of removal
was in violation of section 2 of article- 3, of the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of tihe Court.

205 U. S.

and of the Sixth Amendment; that the rulings of the District
Judge, in holding the certified copy of the indictment conclusive and in refusing to permit the introduction of any
evidence on behalf of petitioner, deprived him of rights secured by the Constitution and by section 1014, Revised Statutes; and that he was deprived of, his liberty without due
process of law.
At the hearing before the Circuit Court, in addition to the
record of the proceedings before the District Judge, an offer
was made to prove by witnesses the facts set forth in the
petition, but the-court did not admit the same, because it was
held that the certified copy of tlie indictment, with, proof of.
the 'identity of the party accused, sufficiently established
the existence of probable cause.
In other words, the indictment was in effect held to be
conclusive. The Circuit Judge said, it is true, that probable
cause must be shown in order to obtain a removal, but he
held that inasmuch as the copy of the indictment alone was
regarded as sufficient evidence of probable cause in Beavers v.
Henkel, 194 U. S. 73, it was sufficient in the present case.
In that case, however, no evidence was introduced to overcome the prima facie case made by the indictment except
that evidence was offered as to what passed in the grand jury
room and rejected on that ground and not because it went' to
the, merits.
Section 1014 of the Revised Statutes reads as follows:
"For any crime or offense against the United States, the
offender may, by any justice or judge of the United States,
or by any commissioner of a circuit court to take bail, or by
any chancellor, judge of a supreme or superior court, chief
or first judge of common pleas, mayor of a city, justice of
the peace, or other magistrate, of any State where he may be
found, and agreeably to the usual mode of process against
offenders in such State, and at the expense of the United
States, be arrested and imprisoned, or bailed, as the case may
be, for trial before such court of the United States as by law

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.

29

Opinion of the Court.

has cognizance of the offense. Copies of the process shall
be returned as speedily as may be into the clerk's office of
such court, together with the recognizances of the witnesses
for their appearance-to testify in the case. And where any
offender or witness is commpitted in any district other' than
that where the offense is 'to be tried, it shall be the duty of
*the judge of the district where such offender or witness -is
imprisoned, seasonably to issue, and of the marshal to execute,
a warrant for his removal to the district where the trial is to
*be had."
Obviously the first part of tWis section provides for the
arrest of any offender against the United States wherever
found and without reference to whether he has been indicted,
but when he has been indicted in a district in another State
than the district of arrest, then, after the offender has been
committed. it becomes the duty of the District Judge, on
iiquiry, to issue a warrant of removal. And it has been
repeatedly held (hat in such cases the judgo exercises something more than a mere ministerial function, involving :no
judicial. discretion, He must look into the indictment to
ascertain whether an offense against the United States is
charged, find whether there was probable cause, and determine wehether the court to which the accused is sought to be
removed has jurisdiction of the same. "The liberty of the
citizen, and his general right to be tried in a tribunal or forum
of his domicile, imposes upon the judge the duty of consider-"
ing and passing upon those questions." Mr. Justice Jackson,
then Circuit Judge, Greene's Case 52 Fed. Rep. 104. In the
language of Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering the opinion in
Beavers v. H-enkel, 194 U. S. 73, 83:
"It may be conceded that no such removal should be summarily and arbitrarily made. There are risks. and burdens
attending it which ought not to be needlessly cast upon any
individual. These may, not be serious in a removal from
New York to Brooklyn, but might be if the removal was
from San Francisco to New York. And statutory provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

must be interpreted in the light of all that may be done under
them. We must never forget that in all controversies, civil
or criminal, between the Government and an individual the
latter is entitled to reasonable protection. Such seems t 9
have been the purpose of Congress in enacting section 1014,
Rev. Stat., which requires that the order of removal be issued
by the judge of the district in which the defendant is arrested."
In other words, the removal is made a judicial, rather than a
mere ministerial, act."
In Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, Greene was indicted
in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
DistricE of Georgia. He was arrested and' taken before a
commissioner in the State of New York. The commissioner
held that the certified copy of the indictment was conclusive
evidence of probable cause, and refused to hear any evidence
on the part of the defendant; and thereupon application was
made to the District Judge of the Southern District of New
York for an order of removal. That judge held that the
commissioner ,should have heard evidence, and remanded
the case. Evidence was then taken before the commissioner,
and he decided that there was probable cause. Application
was again made to the District Judge for an order of removal,
and he held that the evidence showed the existence of probable cause, and made the order accordingly. Greene thereupon presented his petition to the Circuit Court for a writ
of habeas corpus, which was denied, and the case brought
here on appeal. The evidence before the commissioner and
*before the District Judge was not annexed to the petition nor
brought up on certiorari, so that it formed no part of the
record in the habeas corpus case. We held that, in the absence of the evidence, we must assume that the finding of
probable cause was sustained.
But it was insisted tlhat the offense was only that which
was contained in the indictment, and if the indictment were
insufficient for any reason that theft no offense was charged
upon which removal could be had. This court, however,

TINSLEY v. TREAT.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruled that the indictment did not preclude the Government
from giving evidence of a certain and definite character concerning the commission of the offense and that the mere fact
that there might be lacking in the indictment somc averment
of time or place or circumstance in order to render it free
from technical defects would not prevent the removal if
evidence were given on the hearing which supplied such
defects and showed probable cause to believe the defendants
guilty of the offense defectively- stated in the indictment.
Mr. Justice Peckham, in delivering the opinion, was careful
to say that it was not held that where the indictment charged
no offense against the United States or the evidence failed
to show any, or, if it appeared that the offense charged was not
committed or triable in the district to which the removal
was sought, the judge would be justified in ordering the rem oval, because there would be no jurisdiction to commit or
any to order the removal of the prisoner. "There must be
some competent evidence to show that an offense has been
committed over- which the court in the other district had
jurisdiction, and- that the defendant is the individual named
in the charge, and that there is probable cause for believing
him guilty of the offense charged." On the facts of that
case it was not found necessary to express an opinion upon
the question whether the finding of an indictment was, in the
proceeding under section 1014, conclusive evidence of the
existence of probable cause for believing the defendant in
the indictment guilty of the charge set forth. Although it
may be said that if the indictment were conclusive upon
the accused, it would be conclusive upon the Government
also.
It was held in Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73; Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, as well as
Greene v. Henkel, supra, that an indictment constituted
prima facie evidence of probable cause, but not that it was
conclusive.
We regard that question as specifically- presented in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

present case and we hold that the indictment cannot be treated
as conclusive under section 1014.
This being so, we are of opinion that the evidence offered
should have been admitted. It is contended that that
evidence was immaterial, and, if admitted, could not have
affected the decision of either the District or Circuit Judge.
Of ,course, if the indictment were conclusive, any evidence
might be said to be immaterial, but if the indictment were only
prima facie, then evidence tending to show that no offense
triable in the Middle District of Tennessee had been committed
by defendant in that district could not be regarded as immaterial.
The Constitution provides that "The trial of all crimes,
except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury; and such
trial shall be held in the State where the said crimes shall
have been committed," (Article III, section 2); and that
"In all crinminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the
right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the
State and District wherein the crime shall have been committed," (Amendment VI); and in order that any one accused
shall not be deprived of this constitutional right, the judge
applied to to remove him from his domicile to a district in
another State must find that there is probable cause for believing him to have committed the alleged offense and in such
other district. And in doing this his decision does not determine the question of guilt any more than his view that the
indictment is enough for the purpose of removal definitively
determines its validity.
Appellant was entitled to the judgment of the District Judge
as to the existence of probable cause on the evidence that
might have been adduced, and even if the District Judge
had thereupon determined that probable cause existed, and
such determination could not be revised on habeas corpus,
it is nevertheless true that we have no such decision here,
and the order of removal cannot be sustained in its absence.
Nor can the exclusion of the evidence offered be treated as

KESSLER v. TREAT.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

mere error, inasmuch as the ruling involved the denial of a
right secured by statute under the Constitution.
This conclusion is fatal to the order and warrant of removal and requires a reversal of the judgment below and the
discharge of appellant.
Final order reversed and cause remanded with directions to
discharge appellant from custody under the order and warrant of removal without prejudice to a renewal of the ap-"
plication to remove.
MR. JUSTIc0E HARLAN dissented.
MR. JUSTICE

MOODY took no part in the disposition of the

case.

KESSLER v. TREAT, UNITED STATES MARSHAL. 1
MORGAN v. SAME.
CARPENTER v. SAME.
WHITTLE v. SAME.
WILCOX 'v. SAME.
BRADEN v. SAME.
ROYSTER v. SAME.
SMITH v. SAME.
BURROUGHS v. SAME.
McDOWELL v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

DISTRICT OF

VIRGINIA

Nos. 370. 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376. 377, 378, 379. Argued December 3, 4, 1906.Decided March 4, 1907.

Decided on authority of Tinsley v; Treat, ante, p. 20.
I Argued simultaneously with Tinsley v. Treat, ante, p. 20; for counsel and
abstracts of arguments see ante, pp. 21 et seq.
VOL. cCN-3

