WHITFIELD v. ,ETNA LIFE INS. CO.
205 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

WHITFIELD v. 1ETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
OF HARTFORD.
CERTIORARI TO TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 258. Argued April 12, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.
If an insurance company does business in a State it must do so subject to
such valid regulations as the State adopts.
A State may adopt such public policy as it deems best, provided it does not
in so doing come into conflict with the Federal Constitution; and if constitutional the legislative will must be respected, even though the courts
be of opinion that the statute is unwise.
The statute of Missouri, that suicide, unless contemplated when the-policy
was applied for, shall be no defense to,actions on policies of life insurance,
is a legitimate exercise of the power of the State; and a stipulation in a
policy that the company shall only be liable for a portion of the amount
in case of suicide, not contemplated when the policy was applied for, is
void, and cannot be set up as a defense.
Whatever tends to diminish a plaintiff's cause of action or to defeat recovery
in whole or in part amounts in law to a defense.
144 Fed. Rep. 356, reversed.

. THis is a suit upon an accident policy of insurance issued
November 3, 1900, by the Etna Life Insurance Company of
Hartford, Connecticut, upon the life of James Whitfield, a
resident of Missouri. The policy specifies various kinds of
injuries; also, the amount that will be paid by the company
on account of such injuries respectively. It provides: "If
death results sQlely from such injuries within ninety days, the
said Company will pay the principal sum of five thousand
dollars to Amanda M. S. Whitfield, his wife, if living; and in
event of the death of the said beneficiary before the death of
the insured, to the executors, administrators, or assigns of
the insured." The policy recites that it was issued and ac.cepted by the assured, James Whitfield, subject to certain
conditions, among which are these: " . . . 5. In event of
death, loss of limb or sight, or disability due to injuries inten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.'
Statement of the Cae.

205 U. S.

tionally inflicted upon the insured by any other person (except
assaults committed for the sole purpose of burglary or robbery),
whether such other person be sane or insane, or under the
influence of intoxicants or not; or due to injuries received while
fighting or in a riot; or due to injuries intentionally inflicted
upon the insured by himself; or due to suicide, sane or insane;
or due to the taking of poison, voluntarily or involuntarily,
or the inhaling of any gas or vapor; or due to injuries received
while under the influence of intoxicants or narcotics, then in all
such cases referred to in this paragraph, the limit of this Company's liability shall be one-tenth the amount otherwise payable
under this policy, anything to the contrary in this policy notwithstanding. . . . 8. The maximum liability of the
Company hereunder in any policy year shall not exceed the
principal sum hereby insured, and in no event will claim for
weekly indemnity be valid if claim is also made for any of the
stated amounts herein provided for specified injuries based
upon the same accident and resulting injuries."
The insured died April 7th, 1902; the plaintiff, his widow
and the beneficiary of the policy, alleging in her petition that
he died "from bodily injuries, effected through external, violent, and accidental means, and by a pistol shot." The petition
also states that the company after receiving proofs as to the
death of the insured offered to pay $500 as the full amount due
by § 5 of, the policy, but refused to pay more. The plaintiff
asked a judgment for $5,000 with interest from the date of the
death of the insured.
The company, in its answer, denied liability for the whole
principal sum and averred, among other things, that by the
terms of the policy "in the event death is caused by intentional.
injuri6 inflicted. by the insured or any other person, whether
such personi be sane or insane, or while fighting or in a riot, or
by suicide, sane or insane, or by poison or by inhaling gas or
vapor, or while under the influence of intoxicants or narcotics
then. the amount to be paid shall be one-tenth of the principal
.
that said James Whitfield died from
sum or $500; .

WHITFIELD v. .ETNA LIFE INS. CO.
205 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

bodily injuries caused by a pistol shot intentionally fired by
himself for the purpose thereby of taking his own life; that the
cause of the death of said Whitfield was suicide." It was not
averred in the answer that the insured contemplated 'suicide
when applying for a policy.
The plaintiff demurred to the answer. The demurrer was
overruled, and the plaintiff filed a reply, admitting that the
insured "died from bodily injuries caused by a pistol shot
fired by himself and the cause of his death was suicide," but
averring that the shot was fired and the suicide committed
at a time when the insured was "incapable of realizing or knowing, and when he did not realize or know, what he was doing
or the consequences of his act."
The case-a jury having been waived in writing-was tried
by the court upon an agreed statement of facts, one of which
was that the insured (lied "from bodily injuries caused by a
pistol shot intentionally fired by himself, for the purpose of
thereby taking his own life; that the cause of the death of said
Whitfield was suicide."
The Circuit Court held that the plaintiff was not entitled to
recover $5,000, but only $500, and judgment for the latter
amount was entered. 125 Fed. Rep. 269. That judgment
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 144 Fed. Rep.
356, and the case is here upon writ of certiorari.
Mr. Frank Hagerman, with .whom Mr. Herbert S. Hadley,
Attorney General of the State of Miss6uri, was on the brief,
for petitioner:
There can, in case of suiide, be no limitation in the amount
of the recovery.
The amount of the liability cannot, in the case of suicide, be
lessened. Kellar v. Travelers' Ins. Co., 58 Mo. App. 557, 561.
Prior to the decision in this case, it was the generally understood doctrine of the Supreme Court' of the State and of the
Federal courts that there could be no limitation in the amount
of recovery in case of suicide, because, in Logan v. Fidelity &

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioner.

205 U. S.

Casualty Co., 146 Missouri, 114; Berry v. Knights Templars &c.
Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 440; S. C., upon appeal, 50 Fed. Rep. 511;
and Jarman v. Knights Templars Assn., 95 Fed. Rep. 70; S. C.,
104 Fed. Rep. 638, 187 U. S. 199, the policies provided (and the
provision was held invalid) that in case of suicide the company
should, in lieu of paying. the full amount of the insurance, pay
a sum equaling the premiums that had been paid to the company, which was no more of a limitation than was here attempted, where the. explicit provision is that where death
occurs by suicide only one-tenth of the insurance shall be paid.
Any other construction is an evasion of the statute which
under familiar rules should be avoided; and if the company
can contract to pay only a part of the insurance in case of suicide, the whole virtue of the statute can be destroyed.
In this way, by indirection and in a circuitous manner, the
object and purpose of the statute might be defeated, which
ought not to be permitted if settled rules of interpretation are
to be followed. 26 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law (2d ed.), 657;
Magdalen College Case, 11 Coke, 66, 76; Endlich oni Interpretation of Statutes, § 138; Philpott v. St. George's Hospital, 6 H.
L. Cas. 338, 349.
When the Jarman case reached this court, 187 U. S. 197,
204, it was here said that the statute created "an independent
and binding obligation overriding and nullifying any stipulation of the parties." See also in REtna Life Insurance Co. v.
Florida,69 Fed. Rep. 932; Berry v. Knights Templars &c. Co.,
46 Fed. Rep. 439, 441; S. C., 50 Fed. Rep. 511, 513.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in saying that the statute
should receive a restrictive cnstruction. Such a view is
directly opposed to the cases hereinbefore cited, wherein the
doctrine has been repeatedly affirmed that the statute, being
remedial, was to have the most liberal construction, and if this
court were not bound by the decisions already rendered in the
state courts, it should at least lean toward agreeing therewith.
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.
The construction of this statute by the highest court of the

WHITFIELD v.
205 U. S.

ETNA LtFE INS. CO.

Argument for Respondent.

State is controlling here. Knights Templars' Ass'n v. Jarman,
187 U. S. 197, 204. It is contended that the Supreme Court
of the State has not decided the question. But Logan v.
Fidelity Ins. Co., 146 Missouri, 114, 118, was from that court,
and as already seen necessarily decided that a clause was invalid which in case of suicide limited the recovery to the
premiums paid. There is no difference in principle between
limiting the recovery to the amount of premiums paid and
limiting it to a specific sum of money. Berry v. Knights Ternplars Ass', 46 Fed. Rep. 439, 441; S. C., 50 'Fed. Rep. 511;
Knight Templars Ass'n v. Jarman, 104 Fed. Rep. 638; S. C.,
187 U. S.-199.
Mr. James C. Jones, with whom Mr. J. J. Darlington was
on the brief, for respondent:
The statute does not abrogate the right to contract in respect to suicide when construed by the rules of constructionapplicable to such-.statutes.
At common law, suicide was a defense to an action on a
policy of insurance. Sec. 7896 declares it shall be no defense.
In the absence of any controlling statute public policy condemns
a contract to'insure agaihst death by intentional self-killing
and precludes a recovery on a. life insurance policy where death
is so caused even though the policy contains no exception
covering suicide. Ritter v. Mutual Life, 1,69 U. S.139. Hence,
the statute is in derogation of common law and being so must
be strictly construed. Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.565;
Sutherland on Construction of Statutes, § 400; Endlich on
Interpretation of Statutes, § 113. The statute, as plaintiffs
would have construed, it, encourages self-murder and gives
legislative sanction and approval to the very contract which
this court has held'so subversive of morality as to be within
the condemnation of the law (in the absence of ah enabling
statute); and for the rule of construction which 'should be
applied here, see United States v.Fisher, 2 Cranch, 390.
There is nothing in the statute which indicates that
it is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

public policy of Missouri to limit or restrict the power to
contract with respect to the amount of indemnity that shall
be granted under an accident or life policy, where death ensues
from suicide.' It is the public policy of the State of Missouri,
apparently, that the parties shall not contract so as to absolve
the insurer absolutely from liability in the event of suicide,
but it is nowhere stated in the law that policies against suicide
shall not be written for a smaller amount in case of suicide.
The insurer is at perfect liberty to contract for the payment of
a fixed or a variable amount.
Nor would such a contract be an evasion of the statute.
The statute does not undertake to abolish suicide as a legitimate subject of contract. It merely prevents the enforcement
of a contract provision for forfeiture in case of suicide. Unlike, under an ordinary life policy, the insured under this
policy was not insured for a certain, definite and fixed sum,
payable upon death, but was guaranteed the payment of a
weekly indemnity in case of disability and a gross but variable
sum in case of death from accident, the amount depending
upon the character of the accident or the manner and circumstances under which it occurred.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

When the policy in suit was issued and also when the insured
committed suicide it was provided by the statutes of Missouri
that "in all suits upon policies of insurance on life hereafter
issued by any company doing business in this State, to a citizen
of this State, it shall be no defense that the insured committed
suicide, unless it shall be shown :to the satisfaction of the court
or jury trying the cause, that the insured contemplated suicide
at the time he made his application for the policy, and any
stipulation in the policy to the contrary shall be void." Rev.
Stat. Missouri, 1879, § 5982; lb. 1889, §5855; lb. 1899, § 7896.
Assuming-as upon the record we must do'-that within
the true meaning of both the statute and the policy, the insured

WHITFIELD v. IETNA LIFE INS. CO.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

committed suicide, without having contemplated self-destruction at the time he made application for insurance, the question
arises whether the contract of insurance limiting the recovery
to one-tenth of the principal sum specified was valid and enforcible.
1. That the statute is a legitimate exertion of power by the
State cannot be successfully disputed. Indeed, the- contrary
is not asserted in this case, although it'is suggested that the
statute "seemingly encourages suicide and offers a bounty
therefor, payable, not out of the public funds of the State,
but out of the funds of insurance companies." There is some
foundation for this suggestion in a former decision of this court,
in which it was held that public policy, even in the absence of
a prohibitory statute, forbade a recovery upon a life policy,
silent as to suicide, where the insured, when in sound mind,
willfully and deliberately took his own life. Ritter v. Mutual
Life Insurance Co., 169 U. S. 139, 154. But the determination
of the present case depends upon other considerations than
those involved in the Ritter case. An insurance company is
not bound to make a contract which is attended by the results
indicated by the statute in question. If it does business at
all in the State, it must do so subject to such valid regulationsas the State may choose to adopt. Even, if the statute in
question could be fairly regarded by. the court as inconsistent
with public policy or sound morality, -it cannot for that reason
alone be disregarded; for, it is the province of the State, by its
legislature, to dopt such a policy as it deems best, provided
it does not, in so doing, come into conflict with the constitution
of the State or the Constitution. of the United States. There
is no such conflict here. The legislative will, within the limits
stated, must be respected, if all that can be said is that, in the
opinion of the court, the statute expressing that will is unwise
from the standpoint of the public interests. See Northwestern
Life Ins. Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 243.
2; Did the courts below err in adjudging that the policy in
suit was not forbidden by the statute? Can an insurance

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

company and the insured lawfully stipulate that in the event
of suicide,. not contemplated by the insured when applying
for a policy, the company shall not be bound to pay the principal sum insured but only a given part thereof? Will the statute in a case of suicide allow the company, when sued on its
policy, to make a defense that will exempt it, simply because
ol such suicide, from liability for the principal sum?
We cannot agree with the learned courts below in their
interpretation of the statute. The contract between the parties, evidenced by the policy, is, we think, an evasion of the
statute and tends to defeat the objects for which it was enacted.
In clear, emphatic words the statute declares that in all suits
on policies of insurance on life it shall be no defense that the
insured committed suicide, unless it be shown that he contemplated suicide when applying for the policy. Whatever tends
to diminish the plaintiff's cause of action or to defeat recovery
in whole or in part amounts in law to a defense. When the
company denied its liability for the whole of the principal
sum, it certainly made a defense as to all of that sum except
one-tenth. If, notwithstanding the statute, an insurance
company, may by contract, bind itself, in case of the suicide
of the insured, to pay only one-tenth of the principal sum,
may it not lawfully contract for exemption as to the whole
sum or only a nominal part thereof, and if sued, defeat any
action in which a recovery is sought for the entire amount
insured? In this way the statute could be annulled or made
useless for any practical purpose. Looking at the object of
the statute, and giving effect to its words, according to their
ordinary, natural meaning, the legislative intent was to cut
up by the roots any defense, as to the whole and every part
of the sum insured, which was grounded upon the fact of
suicide. The manifest purpose of the statute was to make all
inquiry as to suicide wholly immaterial, except where the
insured contemplated suicide at the time he applied for his
policy. Any contract inconsistent with the statute must be
held void.

WHITFIELD v. 2ETNA LIFE INS. CO.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Berry v. Knights: Templars' &c. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 441,
which was an action upon a policy of life insurance, it appears
that the policy, among other things, provided'that in the case
of the self-destruction of the insured, whether voluntary or
involuntary, sane or insane, the policy should be void. Judgment was given for the plaintiff. The Circuit Court said: "It
is contended that the provision in the policy, declaring that it
shall be void if the assured commits suicide, is a waiver or
nullification of the statute which declares such a stipulation
in a policy 'shall be void.' The statute is mandatory and
obligatory alike on the insurance company and the assured.
Its very object was to -prohibit and annul such stipulations in
policies, and it cannot be waived or abrogated by any form of
contract or by any device whatever. The legislative will,
when expressed in the peremptory terms of this statute, is
paramount and absolute, and cannot be varied or waived by
the private conventions of the parties." Upon writ of error
to the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment was affirmed,
that court saying: "The company refued to pay the full'
amount named in the policy, claiming that by the express
provisions of the policy self-destruction by the insured, whether
sane or insane, rendered the contract for the payment of $5,000
void, and the company was only bound to. pay the amount
which had been paid in assessments by the insured. This
action was brought in the Circuit Court for the Western District of Missouri, to recover the full sum of $5,000. The case
was tried to the court, a jury being waived. The parties stipulated that the company was liable for the full amount claimed
by the plaintiffs, unless, excused by the clause in the policy
providing that the same should be void in case of suicide;
Judgment in favor of the plaintiffs having been entered
for. the full amount of the policy,, the case was brought to this
court upon writ of error.

..

In our judgment, the court

below ruled correctly in holding that the policy sued on was a
contract made in Missouri, and, as such, that the provisions of
§ 5982 [the same as the ' tatute now in questioul are applicable
voL. ccv-,32

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

thereto; and therefore the judgment is affirmed, at costs of
plaintiff in error." 50 Fed. Rep. 511, 512, 515.
In Knights Templars' Indemnity Co. v. Jarmon, 187 U. S.
197, this court had occasion to consider the scope and effect
of the statute here in question. That was an action upon a
policy of life insurance for $5,000. A recovery for the whole
sum was sought, but the company defended the action upon
the ground that the provision in the statute that it should
be no defense that the insured committed suicide, related only
to cases where he took his own life voluntarily, while sane, and
in full possession of his mental faculties; that the provision in
the policy that " 'in case of the self-destruction of the holder
of this policy, whether voluntary or involuntary, sane or insane,
. . . this policy shall become null and void,' applied and
exonerated the company from all liability beyond that provided in the policy, 'that in the case of the suicide of the holder
of this policy, then this company will pay to his widow and
heirs or devisees such an amount of his policy as the member
shall have paid to this company on the policy in assessments
on the same without interest.' " This view of the statute was
not accepted in the Circuit Court, and there was judgment
against the company for the whole sum insured. That judgment was affirmed here upon certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
A leading case on the general subject is, Logan v. Fidelity &
Casualty Company, 146 Missouri, 114, 119, 122, 123, which
was a suit upon a policy which, according to the answer in
the case, contained stipulations and covenants to the effect
that in the event of fatal injuries to the assured wantonly
inflicted upon himself, or inflicted upon himself while insane,
the company's liability under its policy should be a sum equal
to the premiums paid, and that sum the policy provided should
be in full liquidation of all claims under it. The question before
the court was whether or not the statute here in question applied to such a policy as the one there in suit. The trial court
instructed the jury to return a verdict for the full amount of

WHITFIELD v. ETNA LIFE INS. CO.
205 U. S.

499

Opinion f the Court.

the policy with interest. The court said: "The error into which
respondent has fallen is in assuming that § 5855 [the statute
now in question] was intended to affect a particular line, class
or department of insurance, as the same has been classified
for legislation. The real object of the section, as the clear
terms of its language express, is to affect all policies of insurance
on life from whatever class, department or line of insurance
the policy may be issued or by whatever name or designation
the company may be known. It is policies of a given kind,
and not companies of a class, that are to be affected by the provisions of § 5855. The section was enacted clearly to protect
all policy holders of insurance on life .against the defense that
the insured committed suicide, all provisions in the policies
to the contrary notwithstanding,, unless as provided in the
section, it can be shown that the insured contemplated suicide
at the time he made application for the policy. . . . When
a policy covers loss of life from external, violent and accidental
means alone, why is it not insurance on life? Such a provision
incorporated in a general life insurance policy admittedly
would, be insurance on life, then why less insurance on life
because not coupled with provisions covering loss of life from
usual or natural causes as well? If one holds a general life
policy and an accident policy, and is killed by lightning or
commits suicide, so that he may be said to have died by accidental means, both the companies should pay, and the stipulation against liability in the event of suicide in the policies
should be no more a defense against the suit upon the accident policy, providing against death from accidental cause,
than against the policy which goes further and covers death
from other causes as well. No such exception or exemption
is found in the plain and comprehensive language of § 5855.
.... No rule of construction, short of one applied for distortion and destruction, can relieve accident insurance companies, issuing policies of insurance on life in this State, from.
the operation and influences of § 5855, which in plain and unambiguous terms declares that in all suits upon policies of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

insurance on life thereafter issued, it shall be no defense that
the assured committed suicide, unless it shall have been shown
to the satisfaction of the court or judge trying the cause that
the insured contemplated suicide at the time ot. making his
application for the policies, all stipulations in the policy to
the contrary being void."
In Keller v. Travelers' Insurance Company, decided by the
St. Louis Court of Appeals, 58 Mo. App. 557, 560, 561, we
have a decision very much in point. That was an action on
an insurance policy for $2,500. The company defended upon
the ground that by the terms of the policy if the insured died
of suicide, whether the act be voluntary or involuntary, it
should be liable for the then full net value of said policy per
the American Experience, Table of Mortality and four and onehalf per cent interest and no more, and that the same should
be paid in manner and form as provided in the policy for the
payment thereof in the event of death. The defense was that
the insured committed sui'cide and that the full net value
of the policy, according to the contract, was only $814.50, and
no more. The defense was overruled and judgment given
for the principal sum. That judgment was affirmed in the
Court of Appeals, the court saying: "The plain purpose of the
statute supra was to prevent the insertion in policies of life
insurance of exceptions to liability on the ground of the suicide
of the insured, unless it could be proven 'that the insured
contemplated suicide at the time he made the application for
the policy.' This was in effect a legislative declaration'of the
public policy of this State. That it was intended to limit
the power to contract for a lesser liability in cases of death by
suicide, not within the limitation expressed in the statute, is
also apparent from its terms, to Wit: 'and any stipulation to
the contrary shall be void.'

.

.

. The fact that the pre-

mium warranted and the policy guaranteed full insurance in
case of the death of the insured for any cause not specified in
the clause set up in the defendant's answer demonstrates
that said clause was designed to modify the liability of the

HARRISON v. MAGOON.
205 U. S.

Counsel 'for Parties.

insurance company if the insured committed suicide. It necessarily follows, if this stipulation as to a decreased liability

in the event of death by suicide is enforced, that it is some
defense to the otherwise full liability agreed upon in the policy.
As the statute in question declares that suicide, nof committed as therein set forth, is 'no defense,' we cannot, hold
that the present stipulation can be enforced without violating
the plain terms of a mandatory statute which the parties have
no power to alter or abrogate."
Without further discussion, we adjudge that, under the
statute in question-anything to the contrary in the policy
notwithstanding-where liability upon a life policy is denied
simply because of the suicide of -the insured, the beneficiary
of the policy can recover the whole of the principal sum, unless it be shown that the insured, at the time of his application for the policy, contemplated suicide. The judgment
must, therefore, be reversed and the case remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion and consistent
with law.
It is so ordered.

HARRISON v. MAGOON.
ERROI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITOiRY, OF HAWAII.
No. 107.

Submitted March 18, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.

Where no right of appeal existed when the final judgment was entered in
the Supreme Court of a Territory, an appeal or writ of error will not lie
under the act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1035, granting appeals in certain
cases, because after final judgment a petition for rehearing was entertained and not finally denied until after the passage of the act.
Writ of error to review, 16 Hawaii, 332, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. D. L. Withington, Mr. A. G. M. Robertson and Mr. W. R.
Castle for plaintiff in error.

