OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioner.

205 U. S.

and entry. No man entering land as a homestead is bound.
to perfect his title by occupation. He may abandon it at
any time, or he may in any other satisfactory way relinquish
the rights acquired by his entry. Having done that, he is no
longer interested -in the title to the land. That is a matter
to be settled between the Government and other applicants.
In this case, Love having relinquished his claim, it does not
lie in his mouth to challenge the action of the Government
in patenting the land to Mrs. Flahive.
We see. no error in the record, and the judgment of the.
Supreme Court ofMontana is.
Affirmed.
MR,.JUSTICE

WHITE

took no part in the decision of this case.

,IHISCOCK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, , v MERTENS.
CER.TIORAR1 TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
!CIRCUIT.
No. 209.

Argued February 27, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

The provisions in § 70a of'thebankiuptcy act of 1898, that a bankrupt
having policies of life insurance: payable to himself and which have a
cash-surrender value, may pay the trustee such, value and thereafter
..hold the policies fiee from the claims :of creditors, are not confined to
policies in which the cash surrender value is expressly stated, but permit
the .redemp tion by the' banknipt of policies having a cash. -surrender
value by the concession or practice of the company issuing the same.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Will B. .Crqwley for petitioner:
These policies are not strictly life insurance policies, but
investrhents.

They 'have no cash surrender value within the

HISCOCK "v. MERTENS.
205 U. S..

Argument for Petitioner.

meaning of the -proviso in § 70-a-5 of the bankruptcy act,
and the bankrupt is not entitled to take theim from the trustee
upon the payment of what the bankrupt claims is the cash
surrender value thereof.
The bankrupt is not entitledto any.interest in these policies
and cannot take them from the trustee. This question lire
never been before this court, but the question has been ex-.
pressly decided adversely to the claim of the bankrupt in the
lower courts. In re Welling, 113 Fed. Rep. 189; In re Slingluff,
106 Fe. Rep. 154.
These cases hold that. the term "cash surrender value"
in the bankruptcy act refers to a value in -cash provided by
the terms of the policy-itself, and which can be demanded as
a contract right by the insured; that it does not mean a sum
which the company will voluntarily pay, although not ob 7
ligated to do so.
The "cash surrender value" contemplated
by § 70-a-5
is not a value which may be obtained by means of negotiation
or agreement, but that it is only such -a value as can be demanded and legally enforced against an unwilling insurance
company. Pulsiver v. Hussey, 9 Am. Bank. Rep. 657; 97
Maine, 434.
Holden V. Stratton, 198 U. S. 214, does not apply except as
to statements which are obiter, The peculiar nature anq
qualities of a tontine policy were not developed in that case.
These policies did pass to the trustee. The claim of the
bankr'upt ' that dolicies which have no cash surrender value
do not. pass to, the trustee, is not well taken.
These policies did, in fact, constitute assets and did pass
to the trustee. .It is quite clear firoi i the terms of the policies tiemselves that they had -an 'actual value. They .come
,expressly within the first part. of subdivision 5, namely, property which could have been traiisferred, because Iit appears
from the evidence -that .these policies not only could have
been transferred but were, as a matter of fact, prior to the
bankruptcy, transferred as security for loans.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Respondent.

205 U. S.

Mr. Dorr Raymond Cobb for respondent:
The policies in question had a. cash surrender value within
the meaning of § 70a of the bankruptcy act and upon the
payment of that cash surrender value to the trustee,- the
bankrupt may continue to "hold, own and carry" said policies
as permitted by that section of the act.
It appeared that the company had fixed the cash-surrendervalue of each of the policies in question, and offered to pay
the same, and such cash surrender values were stated on the
record by one of the company's managers.
These cash surrender values which the company stood ready
and offered to pay were based on the definite method of
computation referred to as applicable to all similar policies.
Premiums on each of the policies having been paid for more
than three years, respondent had at all times the right to
surrender either of his policies and receive in lieu thereof
a paid-up policy "for the entire amount which the full reserve cin this policy according to the present legal standard
of the State of New York will then purchase as a single premium calculated by the regular table for single premium
policies now published and in use by the society." This is
substantially the legal requirement in- the State of New
York.
The contractual and statutory obligation to give the insured
a paid-up policy assures a cash surrendu,value and fixity and
uniformity in its payment. It is apparent as a practical
question that policies having a cash surrender value will
have a paid-up policy value and vice versa.
Under the former bankruptcy act, insurance policies passed
to the assignee in bankruptcy only to the extent of their "cash
surrender value;" that being treated a§ the sum which the
company would voluntarily pay upon the surrender of the
policy. Congress did not manifest any intention to change
the law as it had. been understood and practiced under the
former bankruptcy act. In re MacKinney, 15 Fed. Rep.
535.

HISCOCK ii. MERTENS.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is whether the cash surrender
value of a policy of insurance under sections 70-a-5 of the
bankruptcy act must be provided for in the -policy, or whether
it be sufficient, if the policy have such value by the concession
or practice of the company. Section 70 provides that "the
trustee of the estate of a bankrupt upon his appointment and
qualification

shall be 'vested by operation of law

with the title of the ban krupt as of the date he was adjudged
a bankrupt, except in so far as it is to property which is exempt,
*to all (1) documents relating to his property

.

.

(3)

powers which he might have exercised for his own benefit, but
not those which he might have exercised for some other person

.

.

(5) property which prior to the filing of fthe

petition he could by any means have transferred or which
might have been levied upon and sold under judicial process
against him: Provided, that" when any bankrupt shall have
any insurance policy which has a cash surrender value payable
to himself, his estate or personal representatives, he may,
within thirty days after the cash surrender value has been
ascertained and stated to the trustee by the company issuing
the same, pay or secure to the trustee the sum so ascertained
and stated, and continue to hold, own and carry such policy
free from the claims of the creditors participating in the distribution of the estate under the bankruptcy proceedings,
otherwise the policy shall pass to the trustee as assets."
The respondent and his sons, individually and as composing the copartnership of J. M' Mertens & Co., were declared
bankrupts, and petitioner was elected the trustee-of their
estate October 14, 1903.
At the'time the petition in bankruptcy was filed Mertens
held four life insurance policies issued by the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States. One of the policies,
payable -to his wife if she should survive him, has been dropped
from this controversy. The other three policies were payahlo

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

to Mertens at his death, his executors, administrators or
assignees. They were subject to certain claims arising from
their having been assigned as security for certain loans. With
these we are not concerned.
A dispute arose as to the ownership of the policies, and the
-trustee filed a petition in the District. Court for the determination of the ownership of them and that Mertens be required
to make an assignment of them to the trustee. Mertens
answered, alleging that the policies had, by law and the regular practice of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, a cash
surrender value which he had sought to pay to the trustee,
and was ready and willing to pay; that it was the uniform.
practice of the -society to pay, upon the surrender of such
policies 'and on policies issued on any of the blank forms
shown by .the policies, the cash value thereof "determined
in accordance with a fixed and definite method of computation,
and stated on demand, by any policy holder or person in
interest;" that the society, pursuant to law and in accordance
with its practice, had stated to him and declared the cash
surrender value of each of the policies and its readiness and
willingness to pay such value upon the surrender of the policies.
The values were stated.
The matter was referred to a special master to take the
proofs and report the same, *with findings of fact and conclusions of law. Proofs were taken and a report made in
accordance with the order of the court. The master, in his
report, describing the policies, said:
"None of these express anty agreement or provision whereby
upon default the company shall pay a 'cash surrender, value;
to any person. By their terms the assured is excluded from
any participation in di idends until the completion of the
tontine period,' at which time all surplus and profits derived
from such policies are to be divided among the persistent
policies of that class then in force. At the expiration of the
tontine- period the persistent .policy holder is given certain
options, among them to withdraw in cash the policy's entire

HISCOCK v. MERTENS.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

share of the assets, that is, the accumulated reserve, the
amount of which is stated in each policy, and, in addition,
the accumulated surplus apportioned .to the policy. Each
of these policies also provides that upon default in payment
of a premium and, the surrender of the policy within six months
thereafter the assured shall -be entitled to a new paid-up
policy, based upon the reserve accumulated under the old
policy, but 'without participation in profits.' Both funds
secured by the agreement, namely, the insurance properand the endowment fund representing the accumulated
profits, are payable to thi assured or to his executors, administrators or assigns. No other person is mentioned in
either of the policies as having any beneficial interest therein."
It. appeared from the testimony that as a matter of fact
policies of the character of those in controversy had, under
the practice of the company, cash surrender values, ifoffered
for surrender within six months from the date of the nonpayment of any premium. Explaining this, a witness said:
"To make clear the replies of previous questions I -will
state that the Equitable Life ,Assurance Society would decline
to purchase for cash a policy during, the period for which
premiums had been paid, entitling the policy holder to protection fot the face value, for tl)e reason that in the event
of the death of the holder of that policy before the expiration
of the period for which premiums had been paid, the question
would be raised as to the liability of the company, so that the
payment of an amount of cash for the surrender of :a policy
is only made by the company after that policy has lapsed by
rdason of the non-payment upon its due date." And it was
testified that. the cash surrender values of policies was determined by a. fixed and definite method of computation,
uniform in all cases, and had, without exception, been paid
to. persons insured by the company. It further • appeared
that the surrender values of the policies in controversy were
* .follows: Policy No. .274445, $5,905.65; policy No. 417678,
•,$2,272-.56; policy NO. 417171, $6,574.00.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

It was further testified that the surrender value of each
policy wvas equivalent to the amount of a paid-up policy,
which the company was willing to give. Or, as expressed
by a witness, "it is equivalent to the percentage reserved
under that policy (referring to policy No. 274445), which the
company is willing to pay in consideration of the surrender."
The District Court held that the policies had no cash surrender value within the meaning of section 70 of the bankrupt
act. The court said:
"In the policies in question not only is there a failure to
provide for a cash surrender value, but the provisions are
inconsistent with the existence of such a value. This, however,
is not at war with the fact that the Assurance Association may
be willing to pay money .foi the surrender of such policies.
There is no pretence that this custom of the insurer formed
a part of the contract between the parties, or that the insured
could'enforce the payment of a surrender value, or the payment of anything, on surrendering the policy. In short, the
insurer might be willing to pay a surrender value and might
not. Such payment would be optional with it."
And again:
"The association might be. willing to pay one day, entirely
unwilling the next. Is this the 'cash surrender value' spoken
of in the bankruptcy law? This court thinks not. It would
seem *that had Congress intended that every bankrupt holding a policy of insurance of the nature of these should retain the same as his own on paying to the trustee in bankruptcy
the value "thereof that the, insurer might fix by its custom
or otherwise, it would have used -language appropriate to
that end, and not an expression implying a value the insured
,has a legal right to demand, and the insurer may be compelled to pay, a value generally understood to be provided
for in the policy itself."
The court cited, to sustain its views, In re Welling, 113 Fed.
Rep. 189, and In re Stingluff, 106 Fed. Rep. 154.
An order was ;iitered requiring Mertens to assign the policies

HISCOCK v. MERTENS.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the trustees. It was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The latter court, however, said, that "it should be
inclined to concur with the views expressed in In re Welling,
and to sustain the conclusion of the District Judge in the
cause at bar, that 'no policy is understood to have a cash
surrender value unless provided for in the policy so as to be
enforceable by the insured,' were it not for a subsequent expression of opinion by the. Supreme Court. This is found in
Holden v. Stratton, 198 U. S. 214, as follows:
"'There has been some contrariety of opinion expressed
by the lower Federal courts as to the exact meaning of the
words "cash surrender value," as employed in the proviso,
some courts holding that it means a surrender value expressly
stipulated by the contract of insurance to be paid, and other
courts holding that the words embrace policies, even though
a stipulation in respect to surrender value is not contained
therein, where the policy possesses a cash value which would
be recognized and paid by the insurer on the surrender of the
policy. It is to be, observed that this latter construction
harmonizes with the practice under the bankrupt act of 1867,
In re Newlands, 6 Ben. 342; In re McKinney, 15 Fed. Rep. 535,
and tends to elucidate and carry out the purpose contemplated
by the proviso as we have construed it. However, whatever
influence that construction may have, as the question is not
necessarily here involved we do not expressly decide it.' "
The court observed that the extract from Holden v. Stratton,
was obiter to the questions decided in the case, but considered
it such an explicit declaration of views that the court expressed hesitation to disregard it.
We are hence confronted with the problem whether the
obiter of. Holden v. Stratton shall be pronounced to be the
proper construction of section 70 of the bankrupt act. We
may remark at the commencement that that obiter was not
inconsiderately uttered, nor can it be said that it was inconsequent to the considerations there ilnvolved. It was there
necessary to determinc. between conflicting decisions of two
voi,. ccv - 4

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Circuit Courts of Appeals upon the effect. of state statutes
of exemption from liability for debts, and a careful consideration of section 6 of the bankrupt act, which provided for
exemptions, and section 70, which defined the .property which
passed to the trustee, was necessary to be made and their.
proper effect and relation determined. As elements in that
consideration the meaning and scope of section' 70 were involved and the purpose of Congress in its enactment. Section 6
provides for exemptions "prescribed. by the state .laws."
Section 70'vests the title of all .the property of the bankrupt
in the trustee, "except in so far as it is to property which is
exempt." Then, after a designation of the property the
title to which is transferred, follows the proviso in regard to
insurance p6licies. It was' argued that the proviso would
be meaningless unless considered -as wholly disconnected from
the clause as to exempt property, and this court replied
"As section 70a deals only with property which, not being
exempt, passes to the trustee, the mission of the proviso was,
in the interest of the perpetuation of policies of life insurance,
to provide a rule by which, where such policies passed to the
trustee because they were not exempt if they had a surrender
value their' future operation could be preserved by vesting
the bankrupt with. the privilege of .paying such surrender'
value, -whereby the policy would be withdrawn out of the
category of. an asset of the estate. That is to say, the purpose of the proviso was to confer a benefit upon the insured
ban'krupt by limiting the character of the interest in a nonexempt life insurance policy which should pass to the trustee,
and not to cause such a policy when exempt to become an
asset ofthe estat6d. When the purpose of the 'proviso is thus
ascertained it becomes apparent that to maintain the ,construction which the argument seeks to affix 'to the proviso
would cause it to produce a result diametrically opposed to
its spirit and to the purpose it was intended to subserve."
198 U. S. 213:
And, contenfpiating, the l)'oviso as having such purpose,

HISCOCK v.MERTENS.
205 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the court used the language quoted by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and expressed the view that, as between the two
constructions that had been made of the terms, "cash surrender value," whether they meant a stipulation in the contract or the recognition by the company, the latter harmonized
with the practice under the bankrupt act of 1867 and tended
to elucidate and carry out the purpose contemplated by the
proviso as the decision construed it. And the precedent
practice is necessarily a strong factor and would be so even
if it had a less solid foundation in reason. It is nowhere better
expressed than in In re McKinney, 15 Fed. Rep. 535. It is
there pointed out that the foundation of the surrender value
of a policy is the excess of the fixed annual premiums in the
earlier years of the policy over the annual risk during the
later years of the policy. "This excess," it was said, "in-the
premium paid over the annual cost of insurance, with accumulations of interest, constitutes the surrender value."
And further:
"Though this excess of premiums paid is legally the sole
property of the company, still in practical effect, though
not in law, it is-moneys of the assured, deposited with the
company in advance, to make up the deficiency in later preiniums to cover the annual cost of insurance instead of being
retained by the assured, and paid by him to the company
in the shape of greatly increased premiums when the risk
is greatest. It is the 'net reserve' required by law to be kept
by the company for the benefit of the assured, and to be
maintained to the credit of the policy.. So long as the policy
remains in force the company has not practically any beneficial interest in it, except as its custodian, with the obligation
to maintain it unimpaired and suitably invested for the benefit of the assured. This is the practical, though not the,
legal, relation of the company to this fund.
"Upon the surrender of the policy before the death of the
assured the company, to be relieved from all responsibility
fbr the increased risk,. which is represented by this accumu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

lating reserve, could well afford to surrender a considerable
part of it to the assured, or his representative. A return
'
of a pat in some form or other is now usually made.
In In re Newland, 6 Ben. 342, it was said that the present
value of a policy is its cash surrender value, and but for that
"it could not be said to have any appreciable value. Parker v. Marquis of Anglesey, 20 Weekly Reporter, 162 and
25 Law Times Rep., new series, 482."
There is no expression in either of the cases that the cash
surrender value depended upon contract as distinct from the
usage of companies. And section 70 expresses no distinction.
At the time of its enactment there were policies which stated
a surrender value and a practice which conceded such'value
if not stated. If a distinction had been intended to be made
it would have been expressed. Able courts, it is true, have
decided otherwise, but we are unable to adopt their view.
It was an actual benefit for which the statute provided, and
not the manner in which it should be evidenced. And we do
not think it rested upon chance concession. It rested upon
the interest of the companies and a practice to which no exception has been shown. And that a provision enacted for
the benefit of debtors should recognize an interest so substantial and which had such assurance was perfectly natural.
What possible difference could it make whether the surrender
value was stipulated in a policy or universally recognized by
the companies. In either case the purpose of the statute
would be subserved, which was to secure to the trustee the
sum of such value and to enable the bankrupt to "continue
to hold, own and carry such policy free from the claims of
the creditors participating in the distribution of the estate
under the bankruptcy proceedings."
Counsel for petitioner argues that the policies are mere
investments, and intimates the injustice of keeping them
from the trustee, and illustrates the comment by contrasting
what the company would have paid-as the surrender value
of policy No. 274445, if default had been made in payment

HISCOCK v. MERTENS.
205 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

of premiums, and what the company would pay six months
thereafter. The contrast is between $5,905.65 and $11,318.40.
But this is the result of the age of the policy, and cannot be
a test of other policies or of the construction of the law. And
a precisely like effect would result if the policy expressed a
surrender value, in which case, it is conceded, it would e,.'me
under the law. The same comment is applicable to other
arguments of petitioner which tend to confound the distinction
between surrender value and other value. Section 70 deals
with the former, and makes it the conditions of the relative
rights of the bankrupt and the trustee of his estate. Pursuing the 'argument farther, it is said that "the right to participate in the profits was a part and parcel of the, policy and
of the privileges enjoyed thereunder;" and it is further observed that the difference between the value of the policy
which was used for illustration, "if lapsed on September 8,
1903, given as $5,905.65, and its value on March 8, 1904,
$11,318.40, 'ischiefly made up of the value of this right to
participate in profits." And counsel for petitioner is disposed
to think the contention absurd that the bankruptcy law
contemplated that such a valuable right "could be absolutely
wiped out and taken from the trustee in such a case as this
by allowing the bankrupt to take up the policy by paying
what the bankrupt here claims to be the surrender value."
Such result would not appear to be absurd if the policy were
only two years old instead of nineteen years. Manifestly
a policy cannot be declared in or out of the law according
to its age, nor can anything be deduced from the investment
features of tontine policies. Such policies were decided to
be covered by the law in Holden v. Stratton. Whether the
law should have included them is not our concern. Whatever may be said against it, it has seemed best to the legislature to encourage the extra endeavor and sacrifice which such
policies may represent.
It is further contended that respondent has not made out
that the policies have h cash surrender value, because it appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

from the evidence that the company would not accept their
surrender until they had lapsed, and that they had not lapsed
either when the petition Was'filed or the bankruptcy adjudged.
But this is tantamount to saying that no policy can ever have
a surrender value. According to the testimony, policies
which have a stipulation for such, value are subject to the
same condition. And there is nothing in the record to show
that the practice and policies of other companies are not the
same as those of the- Equitable Life Assurance Society. Section 70 is broad enough to accommodate such condition.
It permits the redemption o a policy by the bankrupt from
the claims of creditors by paying or securing to the trustee
the cash surrender value of the policy "within thirty days"
after such value "has been ascertained and stated to the
trustee by the company issuing the same."
Judgment affirmed.

MOORE v. McGUIRE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT -COURT OF THE UNITEDR STATES, FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
-No. 222.

Argued March 1, 4,1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

Where the bill is brought in the Circuit Court to quiet, and remove a cloud
upon, the title of land alleged to be within the State and District where
the suit is brought, and the cloud is based upon tax sales made under the
authority of an adjoining State in which defendants claim the land is
situated, although the chief difference may be upon the question of fact
as to the location of the boundary line between. the two States, if the
construction of the 'act of Congress admitting one of the States to the
Union and defining its boundaries is also in dispute the Circuit Court has
jurisdiction of the case as one arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. Joy v. St. Louis, 201 U. S. 332, distinguished.
Under the acts of Congress of March 1, 1817, 3 Stat. 348, admitfing Mis-

