MARTIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs ir Error.

MARTIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
BRANDENBURG v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 190, 191.

Argued January 29, .1907.-Decided March 11, 1907.

Constitutional rights like others are matters of degree and a street opening
statute which has stood for a long time will not be declared unconstitutional as taking property without compensation because in a particular
instance the amount assessed under the strict, letter of the statute exceeded the value of the property, but the statute should be so interpreted,
as is possible in this case, so that the apportionment of damages be limited to the benefit.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. C.. Brandenburg and Mr. George E. Sullivan, with
whom Mr. Clarence A. Brandenburg was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
Giving the most liberal construction possible to the law
and the acts thereunder it is certainly true that to sustain
an assessment on the theory of benefits, there must be an
actual finding by the jury that the property assessed is in fact
benefited to the extent of the assessment.
In this case the jury found the damages, but made no finding
as to benefits. They merely returned that they apportioned the
amount of the damages without any suggestion, in fact not a
single word, about benefits. As they did not make any finding of benefits, and would not, the proceedings are incurably
defective.
In this case the assessment for alleged benefits was twice
the amount per foot, of the value of the land, and twice the
value of the entire land assessed. The-jury finds the value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
'Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

the land taken, which was part of the lots taken, the frontage
in fact, to be worth 25 cents per foot, and allowed for the
portion taken at that rate. The lots remaining, were 40 feet
front by a depth of 60 feet, and contained 2,400 square feet
of ground. The value, on the basis of the finding of the jury
itself, was $600. The tax against 'the property was $1,200,
.or exactly twice the value of. the land. The assessment per
foot as made by the jury was 50 cents, or twice the amount
allowed as the value'per foot for the property taken. Is that
reasonable or can it possibly be valid? As said by the Supreme Court, if the assessment exceeds the value of the land
assessed, a. different question arises, which means, if it means
anything 'that such an assessment is invalid.
But the petition. goes farther, and in good faith expressly
avers, and it isnot denied, that with. the alleged improvements
added, that is to .say, after the opening of the street, the lots
plus the alleged benefits from the opening of the street with
local improvements are worth less than the amount ,assessed
as a.tax against the property.
Mr. Francis H. Stephens, with whom Mr. E. H. Thomas was
on the brief, fori defendant in error:
A determinatidn by Congress or by the legislature of a State
of the area to bq benefted by certain improvements, and the
assessment to b laid upon that area, is properly within the
function of Congress or the legislature, and cannot be disputed at this late day. Land may be taken for a highway
and the' cost of the improvement assessed against the property
benefited. Shoemaker v. United States, 147'U. S. 283; Bauman
v. -Ross, 167 U. S. 548; Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U.S. 304,
311.
The only case cited by plaintiff inerror is Norwood v. Baker,
172 U. S.. 269. That case stands alone upon the peculiar facts
disclosed therein, and is not to be broadly cited as laying
down any new doctrine for, the application of special assessmept pfincibles. The Court of Appeals in attempting to fol-

MARTIN .v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

low that decision, declared a great part of the act for the street
extensions to be unconstitutional, and that decision was reversed here, thus showing that this court did not intend to
enunciate any new principle in the law relating to special
assessments. Wiqht v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 900.
Plaintiff in error claims that the assessment exceeded the
value of the land, and cites the assessment records to prove
this. It is well known that the assessments are far below the
real value of the property, below that for what it is usually
sold even at auction sales. Moreover, the plaintiff leaves out
of the argument the difference between these lots, as fronting
on an alley and not available for building purposes, and their
value as fronting on a street and capable.of being used for the
erection of dwellings. Congress has expressly provided in
some of. the acts passed for condemnation purposes that the
jury shall assess the damages for the land taken as of 'the
present value of the land taken, as in the, present law, ยง 4
(Code, ยง 1608-h), and assess the benefits as of the value of the
land as enhanced by the opening of the street or alley. It is
obvious, in the present case, that, the opening of the street
more than doubled the value of the property., The figures cited
by the plaintiff prove nothing whatever.
Plaintiff in error attempts to demonstrate, by the assessed
.values, not by the market values, what the benefits
actually
were. The jury; however, were the. judges of what benefits
were received, and they were bound neither by the assessments
of record nor by the estimates of the plaintiff. The apportionment was a matter left to their discretion and it is not to be set
aside because the plaintiff thinks he has been harshly treated.
It is a question of: judgment and discretion and not one of
mathematics.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

These are writs of certiorari to test the validity of assessments for the widening of an alley in Washington under the

.OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

act of Congress of July 22, 1892, c. 230, 27 Stat. 255, as amended
by the act of August 24, 1894, c. 328, 28 Stat. 501. The writs
were quashed by the Supreme Court of the District and the
judgments affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 26 App. D. C.
140, 146. The principal case is that of Brandenburg, the
owner of land taken for the. widening. That of Martin raises
questions as to the rights of a mortgagee of the same land.
The main issue is upon the constitutionality of the act. The
statute authorizes the Commissioners of the District to condemn, open, widen, etc., alleys upon the presentation to them
of a plat of the same accompanied by a petition of the owners
of more than one-half of the real estate in the square in which
such alley is sought to be opened, etc., or in certain other cases.
After prescribed preliminaries the Commissioners are to apply
to the marshal of the District to empanel a jury of twelve
disinterested citizens, and the marshal is to empanel them,
first giving ten days' notice to each proprietor of land in the
square. The jury is to appraise the damages to real estate
and also is to "apportion an amount equal to the amount of
said damages so ascertained and appraised as aforesaid,"
including fixed pay for the marshal and jury, "according as
each lot or part of lot of land in such square may be benefited
by the opening, widening, extending or straightening such
alley," with certain deductions. The amendment authorizes
the Commissioners to open minor streets, to run through a
square, etc., whenever in the judgment of said Commissioners
thd public interests require it.
The law is not a legislative adjudication concerning a particular place and a particular plan like the one before the court in
Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S.371. It is a general prospective
law. The charges in all cases are to be apportioned- within
the limited taxing district of a square, and therefore it well
may happen, it is argued, that they exceed the benefit conferred,
in some case of which Congressolnever thought and upon which
it could not have passed. The present is said to be a flagrant
instance of that sort. If this be true, perhaps the objection

MARTIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the act would not be disposed of by the decision in Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber A'sphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S.
430. That case dealt with the same objection,' to be sure, in
point of form, but a very different one in point of substance.
The assessment in question there was an assessment for grading
and paving, and it was pointed out that a legislature would be
warranted in assuming that grading and paving streets in a
good sized city commonly would benefit adjoining land more
than it would cost. The chance of the cost being greater thanthe benefit is slight, and the excess, if any, would be small.
These and other considerations were thought to outweigh a
merely logical or mathematical possibility on the other side,
and to warrant sustaining an old and familiar method of taxation. It was emphasized that there should not be extracted
from the yery general language of the Fourteenth Amendment,
a system of delusive exactness and merely logical form.
But when the chance of the cost exceeding the benefit grows
large and the amount of the not improbable excess is great,
it may not follow that the case last cited will be a precedent.
Constitutional rights like others are matters of degree. To
illustrate: Under the police power, in its strict sense, a certain
limit might be set to the height of buildings without compensation; but to make that limit five feet woulh require compensation and a taking by eminent domain. So it well might be
that a form of assessment that would be valid for paving would
not be valid for the more serious expenses involved in the taking
of land. Such a distinction was relied on in French v. Barber
Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 344, to reconcile the decision
in that case with Norwood v. Baker, '172 U. S. 269.
And yet it is evident that the act of Congress under consideration is very like earlier acts that have been sustained.
That passed upon in Wight v. Davidson, it-is true, dealt with
a special tract, and so required the hypothesis of a legislative
determination as to the amount of benefit conferred. But the
real ground of the decision is shown by the citation (181
17. S. 378, 379), of Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. 9,

same principle was sustained in a general law. 167 U. S.
589, 590. It is true again that in Bauman v. Ross the land
benefited was to be ascertained by the jury instead of being
limited by the statute to a. square; but it was none the less
possible that the sum charged might exceed the gain. As
only half the cost was charged in that case it may be that on
the practical. distinction to which we have adverted in connection with Louisvilta. & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., the danger of such an excess was so little that it
might be neglected, but the decision was not put on that
ground.
In view of the decisions to which we have referred it would
be unfortunate if the present act should be declared unconstitutional after it has stood so long. We think that without
a violent construction of the statute it may be read in such a
way as not to raise the difficult question with which we have
been concerned. It is true that the jury is to apportion an
amount equal to the amount of the damage ascertained, but
it is to apportion it "according as each lot or part of lot of land
in such square may be benefited by the opening, etc." Very
likely it was thought that in general, having regard to; Ithe
shortness of the alleys, the benefits would be greater than the
cost. But the words quoted permit, if they do not require,
the interpretation that in any event the apportionment is to be
limited to the benefit, and if it is so limited all serious doubt
as to the Validity of the statute disappears.
It is clear, however, from the petitions and the returns that
the jury did not administer the statute in the way in which
we have determined that it should be read. About one-fifth
of each lot was.taken, and was valued at $92 and $75 respectively. That would give a value of $368 and $300, at the most,
to the remaining portions, before the improvement was made.
These lots were assessed $650 less said $92, or $558, and $550
less said $75, or $475. It is most improbable that the widening of an alley could have nearly- trebled the value of each lot.
We think it apparent, as was assumed by'the Court of Appeals,

141

WETMORE v. KARRICK.
205 U. S.

.

Syllabus.

that the jury understood their duty to be to divide the whole
cost among the landowners, whether the benefit was equal to
their share of the cost or not. It must be admitted that the
language of the statute more or less lent itself to that understanding. There is nothing in the record sufficient to show
that the jury took a different view, or that they limited the
assessment to the benefit actually conferred on- these lots.
For this reason the assessment must be quashed; and it will
not be necessary to consider the special objections of the mortgagee.
J udgments reversed.
MR. JiSTIcE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE WHITE
!
TICE McKENNA'concur in the judgment.

and MR.

JUS-

WETMORE v. KARRICK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 144.

Argued January 9, 1907.-Decded March 11, 1907.

Where an action is brought to recover upon a judgment the jurisdiction
of the court rendering the judgment is open to inquiry; and the Constitutional requirement as to full faith and credit in each State to be
given q the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other
State does not require the enforcement of a judgment rendered without
juriodiction or otherwise wanting in due process of law.
A judgment rendered in peronam against a defendant without jurisdiction
of his person is not only erroneous but void, and is not required to be enforced in other States under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution or the act of Congress passed in aid thereof, ยง 905, Rev. Stat.
A court which has once rendered a judgment in.favor of a defendant, dismissing the cause and discharging him from. further attendance, cannot,
after the term or at a subsequent term, without notice to the defendant,
set that judgment aside and render a new judgment against the defendant; a judgment so entered -is void and not, required to be enforced in

