OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

UNITED STATES ex rel. WEST v. HITCHCOCK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 194.

Argued January 30, 1907.-Decided March 4, 1907.

While the promise of the United States to allot 160 acres to each member of
the Wichita band of Indians under the act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 876,
895, may confer a right on every actual member of the band, the primary
decision as to who the members are must -ome from the Secretary of the
Interior; and, in the absence of any indication in the act to allow an appeal
to the courts for applicants who are dissatisfied, mandamus will not issue
to require the Secretary to approve the selection of one claiming to be an
adopted member of the tribe but whose application the Secretary has
denied.
In view of long established practice of the Department of the Interior, and
the undoubted power of Congress over the Indians,*this court will hesitate
to construe the language of §§ 441, 463, Rev. Stat., as not giving the Department of the Interior control over the adoption of whites into the Indian
tribes.
Where' the Secretary of the Interior has authority to pass on the right of
one claiming to be a member of a band of Indians to select land under an
agreement ratified by an act of Congress, his jurisdiction does not depend
upon his decision being right.
26 App. D. C. 290, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William H. Robeson and Mr. Samuel A. Putman, with
whom Mir. William C. Shelley was on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror:
The duty of the Secretary to identify the individual as a
member of the tribe does not involve judicial discretion. It
is not material to determine whether this was a ministerial
or a judicial duty, because the answer of the Secretary and
all the evidence in the case shows that he did find that this
relator is a member of the tribe and his only reason for refusing
to approve relator's selection of land was because he did not
approve of that mernbershit).

WEST v. HITCHCOCK.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Membership by adoption being conceded, the approval
or disapproval by the Secretary of the selection is not a power
but a duty; the duty to approve selections made within the
requirements of the statute is positive,the duty of disapproving
selections applies only to those made in violation of the requirements of the statute, and the performance of the: one
duty or the other is positively defined by the provisions of
the act giving to the Secretary- no option whatever whether
he shall approve or disapprove a selection.
The allotment of land selected does not constitute a bounty
from the Government, but is a partial payment of the consideration for the cession of the lands of the tribe, and the
failure of the Secretary to approve this relator's selection is a
forcible abatement by that much of the consideration agreed
to be paid by the United States.
With the determination of these questions in favor of the
proposed allottee, then i if there ever was any judicial discretion or power vested in the Secretary, it was exhausted,
and nothing remained to himn but the performance of the
plain duty to approve the relator's selection. The Secretary
cannot capriciously disapprove selections. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137.
But when these facts, which the Secretary now admits,
are determined in relators' favor, and the Secretary's judicial
functions thereby exhausted, the same obligation rests upon
him to perform the ministerial duty following upon the exercise of his judgment, as was enforced by the judgment of
the case of United States v. Schurz, 102 U. 9.378,
the court inwhere, after once passing upon the right of the claimant to
a patent,. the Secietary was required to deliver it,
If in this case the courts have not power to enforce the
plain mandates of this agreement and statute, it will present
a condition which has often been said to involve a monstrous
absurdity in organized government; that there should be no
remedy, though a clear undeniable right is shown to exist.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 62.
VOL. CC-

6

OCTOBER TERM, :1906.
Opinion of the' Court.

205 U. S.

Air. Assistant Attorney General Campbell and Mr. Fred H.
Barclay, with whom Mr. Jesse C. Adkins was on the brief,
for defendant in error:
-The allegations in defendant's answer to the petition, that
he had, on July 3, 1901, reached and announced a conclusion
and decision that relatcni .vas not, by nativity or adoption, a
member of the Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians and
therefore not entitled to an allotment, are sufficient to defeat
the application for the writ. iThe action of the defendant, as Secretary of the Interior,
in refusing to approve the relator's application for an allotment of land, involved a determination by the Secretary of
the question whether the relator was within the category of
persons entitled to allotment. The Secretary having alleged
in his answer that he had decided that relator was not within
this category, the writ of mandamus will not issue.
It was for the Secretary to determine whether the relator
was an adopted member; and of course it is elementary law
that when in such a case the Secretary has determined that, or
any question, so committed to him it is 'immaterial whether
his determination is right or wrong; that is a matter which
cannot be considered by the courts, and his decision cannot
be reviewed by them. De Cambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119;
Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 L. S. 316; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price Co., 133 U. S. 496, 511; Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543, 557.
Mandamus should not issue in cases of doubtful right, but
only when the legal right of the party to that which he demands
has been clearly established. Life and Fire Insurance Co.. v.
Wilson's Heirs, 8 Pet. 291, 302; Reeside v. Walker, 11 How.
272, 289.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This' is a petition for mandamus to require the Secretary
of the Interior to approve the selection and taking of one

WEST v. HITCHCOCK.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hundred and sixty acres by the relator out of the lands ceded
to the United States by the Wichita and affiliated bands of
Indians, under an agreement of June 4, 1891, ratified by the
Act of Congress of March, 2, 1895, c. 188. 28 Stat. 876, 895897. The petition alleges that the relator is a white man
married to a Wichita woman and thereby a member of the
tribe, and that his adoption was confirmed and recognized in
various ways set forth. By the second article of the agreement, as part of the consideration, the United States agreed
that there should be allotted to 'each member of the said
bands, native and adopted, one hundred and sixty acres out
of the said lands, to be selected by the members, with qualifications not in question here. The fourth article contains
provisions as to' the title to allotments when they "shall have
been selected and taken as aforesaid, and approved by the
Secretary of the Interior." After a demurrer to the petition,
which was overruled, 19 App. D. C. 333, the Secretary answered, alleging that he had examined and considered the
application of the relator and on July 3, 1901, had"reached
and announced a decision that, the relator was not a' member
of the tribe, and thereupon had denied the application. The
relator moved for a peremptory mandamus, which was denied, and filed a demurrer, which was overruled, and thereupon
pleaded that the Secretary did not, by the decision alleged,
decide that the relator was not a member of the tribe, and
for that reason deny him the allotment. Issue was joined
and evidence taken, and after a hearing judgment was entered for the respondent and the petition dismissed. The
judgment was affirmed on appeal, 26 App. D. C. 290, and
then the case was brought to this court. The issues here
are those raised by the plea, the demurrer to the answer and
the motion for a peremptory writ.
It is argued that the answer admits the averments of the
petition, as it does not deny them in terms, and that therefore it must be taken that there was no question concerning
the relator's bIembership for the Secretary to decide. His

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

.205 U. S.

identity was not disputed, nor, it is said, the acts of adoption
that took place long before the relator applied to have his
selection approved, and, therefore, the Secretary's duty was
merely ministerial, to carry out the mandate of the act. But
the admission, at most, is only the admission implied by a
plea of estoppel by judgment. In truth it hardly goes so far
as that; for when a party says that he is the proper person to
decide the question raised and that he has decided it against
the party raising it, he hardly can be said to admit that his
decision was wrong.
The approval of the Secretary required by the agreement
must include as one of its elements the recognition of the
applicant's right. If a mere outsider were to make a claim,
it would have to be rejected by some one, and the Secretary
is the natural if not the only person to do it. No list or authentic determination of the parties entitled is referred to by
the agreement, so as to narrow the Secretary's duty to identification or questions of descent in case of subsequent death.
The right is conferred upon the members of the bands, but
the ascertainment of membership is left wholly at large.
No criteria of adoption are stated. The Secretary must have
authority to decide on membership in a doubtful case, and
if he has it in any case he has it in all. Furthermore, as his
decision is not a matter of any particular form, his answer
saying that he has decided the case is enough; for even if he
had not decided it before, such an answer would announce
a decision sufficiently by itself.
But the answer was not confined to a general allegation
that the Secretary had decided the case. It gave the date
of the decision, and the relator, under his plea, put the decision in evidence. It was a letter which seemed to admit
that the relator had been adopted by the Indians as a member of their tribe, but assumed that the adoption must have
been approved by the Indian Office to be valid, as provided
by a regulation of that Department. The relator contends
that the validity of the adoption was a matter purely of

WEST v. HITCHCOCK.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Indian law or custom, and that the Department could not
take it under control. Probably it would have been unfortunate for the Indians if such control had not been exercised,
as the' temptation to' white men to go through an Indian
marriage for the purpose of getting Indian rights is-sufficiently
plain. We are disposed to think that 'authority was conferred by the general words of the statutes. Rev. Stats.
§§441, 463. By the latter section: "The Commissioner of
Indian Affairs shall, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, and agreeably to such regulations as the President may prescribe, have the management of all Indian
affairs, and of all matters arising out of the Indian relations."
We should hesitate a good deal, especially in-view of the longestablished practice of the Department, before saying that
this language was not 'broad enough to warrant a regulation
obviously made for the welfare of the rather helpless people
concerned. The power, of Congress is not doubted. The
Indians have been treated as wards of the Nation. Some
such supervision was necessary, and has been exercised.
In the absence 'of special provisions naturally it would be
exercised by the Indian Department.
However, it hardly is necessary to pass upon that point.
Although the answer gave the decision a 'date, that did not
open -it for consideration. If the Secretary had authority
to pass on the relator's right to select land, his jurisdiction
did not depend upon his decision being right. By alleging
that he had denied the application he did not invoke the
revision of his reasons by a court, even when'he saw fit to add
the date. He raised no question of law, but simply stood
on his authority and put forward his decision as final. As
we have implied, such an answer affirms not merely the past
but the present determination of the answering tribunal,
and must be assumed to be based on reasons that the respondent deems adequate. Even if those given in the letter
of July 3, 1901, had been bad, they could not be taken to
exhaust the Secretary's grounds. He has not disclosed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

the court any statement of those grounds purporting to be
exhaustive and complete, and the court cannot make an
inquisition into his mental processes to see whether they were
correct. See DeCambra v. Rogers, 189 U. S. 119, 122.
.We doubt if Congress meant to open an appeal to the courts
in all cases where an applicant is dissatisfied. Of course
the promise of the United States that there shall be allotted
one hundred and sixty acres to each member of the Wichita
,band may be said to confer an absolute right upon every
actual member of the band. But some one must decide who
the members are. We already have expressed the opinion
that the primary decision must come from the Secretary.
There is np indication of an intent to let applicants go farther.
There are insuperable difficulties in the way of at least this
form of suit, and the Department of the Interior generally
has been the custodian of Indian rights.
Judgment affirmed.

PEROVICH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
THIRD DIVISION OF THE TERRITORY OF ALASKA.
No. 405.

Submitted January -29, f907.-Decided March 11, 1907.

While in this case there wias no witness to the homicide and the identification of the body found was not perfect, owing to it condition caused by
its having been partially burned, yet as the circumstantial evidence was
clearly enough to warrant the jury in finding that the body was that of
the person alleged to have been murdered and that he had been killed by
defendant, the trial court '*ould not have been justified in withdrawing
the case from the jury, but properly overruled a motion to instruct a
verdict of not guilty for lack of proof of the corpus delicti.
In the absence of positive proof, but where there is circumstantial evidence
of the corpus delicti, it is not error to submit to the jury the question of
defendant's guilt with the instruction that the circumstantial evidence

