HARRISON v. MAGOON.
205 U. S.

Counsel 'for Parties.

insurance company if the insured committed suicide. It necessarily follows, if this stipulation as to a decreased liability

in the event of death by suicide is enforced, that it is some
defense to the otherwise full liability agreed upon in the policy.
As the statute in question declares that suicide, nof committed as therein set forth, is 'no defense,' we cannot, hold
that the present stipulation can be enforced without violating
the plain terms of a mandatory statute which the parties have
no power to alter or abrogate."
Without further discussion, we adjudge that, under the
statute in question-anything to the contrary in the policy
notwithstanding-where liability upon a life policy is denied
simply because of the suicide of -the insured, the beneficiary
of the policy can recover the whole of the principal sum, unless it be shown that the insured, at the time of his application for the policy, contemplated suicide. The judgment
must, therefore, be reversed and the case remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion and consistent
with law.
It is so ordered.

HARRISON v. MAGOON.
ERROI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITOiRY, OF HAWAII.
No. 107.

Submitted March 18, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.

Where no right of appeal existed when the final judgment was entered in
the Supreme Court of a Territory, an appeal or writ of error will not lie
under the act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1035, granting appeals in certain
cases, because after final judgment a petition for rehearing was entertained and not finally denied until after the passage of the act.
Writ of error to review, 16 Hawaii, 332, dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. D. L. Withington, Mr. A. G. M. Robertson and Mr. W. R.
Castle for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Mr. E. B. McClanahan, Mr. J. A. Magoon, Mr. F. B. McStocker and Miss Dorothea Emerson for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment for the defendants in a suit upon a contract.

16 Hawaii, 332.

At the trial

a nonsuit was ordered, subject to exceptions taken by the
plaintiff. A motion for a new trial was made but was dismissed,
and this dismissal also was excepted to. The Supreme Court
held that the former exceptions Were presented too late, but
that the latter was-open and raised the question whether the
judgment of nonsuit was right as matter of law. It discussed
this question and sustained the judgment. This was on
December i4, 1904.

In Japuary, 1905, a petition for rehear-

ing was filed; it was entertained by the court, and, after argument, was denied on March 6, 1905. The defendants in
error now move to dismiss, the main ground being that the
Act of March 3, 1905, c. 1465, ยง 3, 33 Stat. 1035, amending the
Act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, ยง 86, 31 Stat. 141, 158, granting
writs of error, &c., does not apply.1
It is answered for the plaintiff in error that, as the petition
for rehearing was entertained and acted upon by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the time to be considered is the date
when the- petition was denied, and that that was after the
statute' went into effect. Voorhees v. John T. Noye Manufacturing Co., 151 U. S. 135; Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v.)
. . The laws of the United
1 Act of April 30, 1900, c. 339, ยง 86 ''.
States relating to appeals, writs of error, removal of causes, and other matters and proceedings as between the courts of the United States and the
courts of the several States shall govern in such matters and proceedings as
between the courts of the. United States and the courts of the Territory of
Hawaii..."
Ampnded by Act of March 3, 1905, c. 1465, ยง 3, by adding at the end of
the section: "Provided, That writs of error and appeals may also be taken
from the Supreme Court of the Territory of -Hawaii to the Supreme Court
of the United States'in all cases where the amount involved, exclusive of
costs, exceeds the sum or value of five thousand dollars."

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Syflabus.

Holmes, 155 U. S. 137. No doubt the decisions cited and
others show that where a right to take the case up exists at
the time of the original judgment, the time limited for the
writ of error on appeal does not begin to run until the petition for rehearing is disposed of. But there are limits to
even that rule. When an appeal, in bankruptcy, required
by General Orders in Bankruptcy, xxxvi, 2, to be brought
within thirty days -after the judgment or decree, was not
brought within that time, the fact that a petition for rehearing
was filed within the time required by the court below, but
after the thirty days, was held not to prolong the time for
appeal. "The appellant could not reinvest himself with that
right by filing a petition for rehearing." Conboy v. First
National Bank of Jersey City, 203 U. S. 141, 145. Ifat the
time of final judgment there is no right of appeal whatever,
it is perhaps even plainer that a party cannot evoke a new one
by filing a petition for rehearing, even if, by accident, it is
kept along until an act giving an appeal is passed. Whether
in any event a writ of error would lie in this case it is unnecessary to decide.
Writ of error dismissed.

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. CITY OF DES MOINES.
PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. SAME.
DES MOINES SAVINGS BANK v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

Nos. 82, 83, 92. Argued November -, 5, 1906.-Restored to the docket for reargument December 3, 1906.-Reargued March 5, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.
The Constitution has conferred upon the Government power to borrow
money on the credit of the United States and that power cannot be

