OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

with the petition for the writ they will be disregarded, except
that the court in its option may notice a plain error not thus
assigned.
But we find no such plain error in the opinion of the Supreme
Court as warrants us in reversing its judgment. The findings
of fact made by that court support. and require the judgment
which it rendered. We do not think it necessary or desirable
to select from an opinion, which was engaged with a discussion
of evidence and the inferences which might properly be drawn
from it, statements of law and subject them to minute scrutiny,
where on the whole it is clear that the facts found by the court
justify the judgment which it rendered. Therefore we do not
consider any questions except those set forth in the assignments of errors, and, deeming that they allege no errors in law,
we affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 213.

Argued February 27, 28, 1907.-Decided April 8, 1907.

Where a question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals contains more
than a single question or proposition of law it will not be answered by
this court.
Where the qualified voters of the county vote for an issue of bonds for subscription to stock of a.railroad on condition. that the county be exonerated
from a prior subscription authorized for another railroad, and thereafter
the judge of the county court authorized by statute to make the subscription enters an order to that effect, receives the stock subscribed for, and
issues the bonds, and nothing further is ever done in regard to the prior
subscription, although no formal exoneration thereof was over made or
attempted, a bona fide purchaser before maturity of the bonds and coupons
for value is entitled to assume in his purchase that the county had been
fully exonerated from the prior subscription.
PLAINTIFF

in error brought an action in the Circuit Court of

QUINLAN'v. GREEN COUNTY.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the United States for the Western District of Kentucky upon
certain bonds and coupons purporting to have been issued by
the defendant in error, one of the counties of the State of Kentucky. The following was the form of the bond:
"United States of America,
"County of Green, State of Kentucky.
"$500.00
"For the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad.
"Twenty years after date, the county of Green, in the State
of Kentucky, will pay to the holder, of this bond the sum of
five hundred dollars, with interest thereon at the rate of six
per cent per annum, payable send-annually upon presentation
of the proper coupons hereto attached, the principal and interest being payable at the Bank of America, in the city of New
York.
in testimony whereof,' the judge of said county of Grcen
has hereunto set his hand and affixed the seal of said county,
on the first day of April, A. D. 1871, and caused the same to
be attested by the county clerk, who has also signed the coupons hereto attached.
"(Green

County Seal.)

T. R. BARNET, Judge.

D. T. TOWLES, Clerk."
The case was tried without a jury, and the court, after finding facts, rendered judgment for the defendant. The case
then went to the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and
that court has certified here two questions of law upon which
it desires instructions, with a statement of facts upon which
the questions arise. In addition to the statement of facts 'we
take into account the material parts of the charter of the
Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company, section 15 of which
contains the following provisions:
"SEc. 15. That any city, town or county through which said
proposed road shall pass is hereby authorized to subscribe
stock in said railroad company in any amount any such city,
town or county may desire; andtvNe county court of any such

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

county is authorized to issue the bonds of their respective
counties in such amount as the county court may direct; and
the chairman and board of trustees, or mayor and aldermen
of any town, and the mayor and aldermen or council of any
city, are hereby authorized to issue the bonds of their respective
towns or cities in like manner. All said bonds shall be payable
to bearer, with coupons attached, bearing any rate of interest
not exceeding six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually
in the city of New York, payable at such times as they may
designate, not exceeding thirty years from date; but before
any such subscription on the part of any city, town or county
shall be valid or binding on the same, the mayor and aldermen,
or chairman and board of trustees of any town, the mayor and
aldermen or council of any city, and the county court of any
county, having jurisdiction, shall submit the question of any
such subscription to the qualified voters of such city, town or
county in which the proposed subscription is made, at such time
or times as said chairman and board of trustees, or mayor and
aldermen of any town, mayor and aldermen or council of any
city, or the county court of any county, as aforesaid, may, by
order, direct; and should a majority of the qualified voters
voting at any such election vote in favor of subscribing said
stock in said railroad company, it shall be the duty of such
county court, trustees, or other authorities aforesaid, to make
the subscription in the name of their respective cities, towns
or counties, as the case may be, and proceed to have issued
the bonds to the amount of such subscription as hereinbefore
directed;
"That, if preferred, the application herein authorized to be
made to the county court may be made to the presiding judge
of the county court; and all the powers herein given to the
county court are hereby vested in the presiding judge of the
county court. At all meetings of the stockholders for the purpose of electing officers, or any other purpose, the said town,
cities, and counties may, by proxies duly authorized by the

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

authorities thereof, cast a vote for each share so subscribed
by said town, city, or county.
The charter giyes to the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad
"all the powers and privileges conferred upon the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company by the laws of Kentucky
for constructing and operating their said proposed railroad."
The charter of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
provides "that said railrcad company may receive subscriptions
of stock to their company by individuals, towns, cities, counties,
or other corporations, whether payable in money or other
things, with such terms and time of payment, conditions annexed, and kind of payment that may be set forth in the subscription." The commissioners of the Cumberland and Ohio
Railroad requested the County Court to submit to the qualified
voters of the county the question whether the county should
subscribe to $250,000 of the capital stock of the company,
payable in bonds of the county, whereupon the judge of the
county court on the 17th of June, 1869, ordered an election
in the' following terms:
"Whereas the commissioners of the Cumberland and Ohio
Railroad Company, by virtue of 'the authority delegated to
them by the charter of said company, have requested the
County Court of Green County to order an election in said
county of Green, and to submit to the qualified voters of said
county the question whether said county court shall subscribe
for and on behalf of said county two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars to the capital stock of the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company, and payable in the bonds of said county,
having twenty years to run, and- bearing six per cent interest
from date, and upon condition that said company shall locate
and construct said railroad through said county of Green, and
within one mile of the town of Greensburg, in said county, and
shall expend the amount so subscribed within the limits of
Green County; and also upon the further condition that said
bonds shall not be issued or said county pay any part of the
principal or ixfterest on said amount subscribed to said Cumber-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

land and Ohio Railroad Company, until said county of Green
is fully and completely exonerated from the payment of the
capital stock voted by said county, and nuti'orized uu be subscribed by said Green County Court to the Elizabethtown and
Tennessee Railroad, or any part of the interest thereon. It
is, therefore, ordered by the court that an election, by the qualified voters of Green County, at the voting places in said county,
be held and conducted by the several officers, as prescribed by
law, for holding elections on the third day of July, 1869, to
vote on the question as to whether or not the said county court
shall, for and on behalf of said county, subscribe two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars to the capital stock of said Cumberland and Ohio Railroad, conditioned and to be paid as above
stated."
The election was duly held July 3, 1869, and the vote was in
the affirmative. During the year before this vote the voters
of the county had voted in favor of a proposition to subscribe
to the stock of the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad,
and thereupon the county judge had ordered the clerk of his
court to make a subscription to the stock of the Elizabethtown
and Tennessee Railroad Company, "on the terms. specified
in the order 'submitting the question to a vote." This was
the subscription from which Green County desired to be exonerated before the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad bonds
should be issued, or any part of their principal or interest paid.
On June 3, 1870, the county judge entered an order reciting
the election at which the qualified voters had approved the
subscription to the capital stock of the Cumberland and Ohio
Railroad, and concluding: "Now, therefore, I, Thomas R.
Barnett, the presiding judge of the Green County Court, by
virtue of the authority in me vested by law, and. to carry out
the wishes of said voters, do hereby subscribe for two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars of the capital stock of said Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company for and on behalf of said
county of Green, which subscription is to be paid in the bonds
of said county as prescribed in said order of submission, and

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY.
205 U. S.

Statement of.the Case.

this subscription is made with the conditions, set out in the
order of this court, ordering said election and now of record
in the office of this county."
At the April term, 1871, the Supreme Court of the State
rendered a decision in the case of Mercer v. Navigation Company, 8 Bush, 300. It is argued that this decision shows that
the subscription to the stock of the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad was void. However that may be, at a time
which does not distinctly appear, but later than that decision,
the judge of the County Court issued and delivered to the
Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company bonds of Green
County to a small amount. On August 15, 1872, the judge
in a formal order, reciting that application had been made
for the issue of the balance of the bonds, directed that, "the
court being sufficiently advised," they be signed and issued.
Thereupon certificates of 2,500 shares of that stock of the par
value of $100 per share were delivered to Green County, which
has since held and owned them. It was conceded at the argument that the county had made payment of interest on the
bonds thus issued to the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad.
No formal or express exoneration of said county from the payment of the subscription to the stock of the Elizabethtown
and' Tennessee Railroad was ever made or attempted, but
nothing further has, up to. this date, ever been done in respect
to it, and neither bonds by the county nor stock by the said
last-named railroad company have ever issued or delivered
in execution of said orders or under the terms of said subscription. The proceeds of $150,000 of the bonds were expended
within Green County in the partial construction of five miles of
the road to Greensburg. This five miles was completed by
a lessee at its own expense. Nothing else has been done within
the county.
The plaintiff is the bona fide holder for value of the bonds
and coupons in suit, but had notice that the railroad had not
been laid further than Greensburg, and therefore did not
extend "through" the county.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Mary Amis Quinlan.

205 U. S.

The questions certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals
are:
"1st. Do the facts found by the Circuit Court conclude or
estop the county from denying liability to the plaintiff upon
the bonds and coupons in suit, by reason of non-compliance
with the terms and conditions imposed by the favorable vote
of the county authorizing a subscription to the stock of the
Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company and the issuance of
bonds in payment therefor? or, if this question should be
deemed too broad, then,
"2d. Assuming the facts to be as found was a bona fide
purchaser, before maturity of these bonds and coupons for
value, entitled to assume in his purchase that Green County
had before their issuance been 'fully and completely exonerated
from the payment of the capital stock subscribed for by the
County Court of said county for and in behalf of said county
to the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad Company?'"
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue and Mr. George DuRelle, with whom
Mr. John J. McHenry, Mr. John C. Doolan and Mr. Attilla
Cox, Jr., were on the brief, for Mary Amis Quinlan:
It is demonstrable not only that the county was completely
exonerated upon the issuance of the bonds, but that it was so
understood by the County Court which withheld the issuance
thereof until such exoneration.
Not only is this true, but the County Court was the judge
of the exoneration and held the county to be exonerated.
Provident &c. Co. v. Mercer Co., 170 U. S. 593.
Although May 20, 1868, the Green County Court made a void
order directing its clerk to make a subscription to the stock
of the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Rgailroad Company,
it avoided all the points of invalidity thereof in the orders of
June 17, 1869, and June 3, 1870, and thoroughly understood
wherein the invalidity of the first order lay, and what exoneration was necessary for the county's safety. Accordingly, the
County Court determined that it was exonerated, and delivered

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY.
205 U. S.

Argument for Green County.

the bonds which were not directed to be printed until October 12, 1871, as above indicated.
Mr. Ernest MacPherson, with whom Mr. John W. Lewis
was on the brief, for Green County:
The purchaser, of municipal bonds is bound to take notice
of the law under which the obligations are issued. This is
the settled law in the Federal courts. Barnett v. Denison,
145 U. S. 139.
The purchaser of the papers herein involved knew that by
the terms of the charter of the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad
conditional subscriptions to its corporate stock were valid.
At its summer term, 1871, before the bonds herein sued on
were ever issued, or even printed, the Kentucky Court of Appeals construed the charter (statute) of the Cumberland and
Ohio 'Railroad Company and held valid conditional subscriptions to its stock, and that subscribers might provide for any
sort of payment they might choose. Shelby County Court v.
C. &. 0. R. R. Co., 8 Bush, 216.
In the absence of a recital in a municipal bond or coupon
that the conditions essential to its validity have been performed,
it is open to the municipality to show the non-performance
of the conditions. Citizens' Saving Association v. Perry
County, 156 U. S. 701; Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 481;
Prov. Life & Trust Co. v. Mercer Co., 170 U. S. 593.
In the alleged bonds of Green County, there being no recitals,
and no reference to the law or authority under which they were
issued, it was the duty of every person dealing therein to look
to the records of the Green County Court. Crow v. Oxford,
119 U. S. 222..
If the second question be intended to ask whether the bare
fact that the bonds were signed and delivered by the county
judge was a decision that there had been a full and complete
dxoneration from the liability on the' subscription to the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad, it should be answered in the
negative. It."has already been shown that "when the law
VOL. ccv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

confers no authority to issue the bonds in question, the mere
fact of their issue can not bind the town to pay them, even to a
purchaser before maturity and for value." Hopper v. Covington, 118 U. S. 148.
The fact that coupons for interest were for a few years paid,
in no legal way estops the county to show the invalidity of
the bonds or coupons, or the failure of the road to fulfill ,he
conditions.
The record does not show that Green County paid interest on
the bonds illegally issued for two years by the same officials who
issued the bonds, and also failed to incorporate in the bonds
the conditions required by the contract, although it so appeared
in the Shortell case. Wilkes County v. Coler, 190 U. S. 113.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question certified is thought by a majority of the
court to contain more than a single question or proposition of
law, and for that reason it is not answered.
The second question deals with the exoneration from subscription to the stock of the Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad Company which was made by the vote of the county a
condition to the issue of the bonds, and we confine our consideration to that question and the facts relevant to it.
There is no doubt of the power of the defendant to issue
the bonds. The legislature of Kentucky gave it in plain terms,
upon the condition that its exercise receive the approval of
the qualified voters. That approval was given upon the
condition imposed by the vote that the bonds should not be
issued before the county had been exonerated from a subscription to the stock of another railroad company. The law gave
the county the right to impose conditions. This particular
condition is a condition precedent to the lawful issue of the
bonds, although it must not be understood that this statement
applies to the other so-called conditions expressed in the vote:

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY.
'205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Of them nothing is intended to be said. If there had been a
recital in the bonds which imported that the condition had been
performed, that would have been conclusive in favor of a
bona fide holder. Provident Trust Co. v. Mercer County,
170 U. S. 593; Gunnison County Commissioners v. Rollins,
173 U. S. 255. But there was no such recital in the body of
these bonds, and the words of the heading, "For the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad," cannot be interpreted as such without going beyond the decided cases, which themselves have
gone far. In the absence of a recital it is open to the defendant
to show that the condition which it had a right to impose and
did impose by the vote of its electors had not been complied
with. Citizens' Savings Association v. Perry County, 156 U. S.
692. In other words, in the absence of a recital, the performance of the condition is not conclusively presumed.
But by the terms of the law it was the duty of the judge of
the County Court, in whom the powers of the court were vested,
to issue the bonds. After a favorable vote has been had in
an election called by the court, the law provides that "it shall
be the duty of said County Court . . . to make the subscription in the name. of their

.

.

.

counties

and proceed to have issued the bonds to the amount of such
subscription, as. hereinbefore directed." This clearly placed
upon the judge ,the duty and responsibility of ascertaining
and determining whether the condition of the issue of the
bonds had been complied with. Coloma v. Eaves, ยง2 U. S.
484.
If he had issued the bonds and they had contained in them
recitals which fairly imported a compliance with the condition
upon the happening of which their issue was authorized, they
would have gone into the hands of 'innocent holders with a
conclusive presumption that the condition had been performed.
This principle has been announced by repeated decisions of
this court and needs no other citations to support it than those
already made. Without such recital the presumption is, as
has been shown, not conclusive. The further question arises,

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

therefore, whether there is any presumption at all of the performance of the condition from the facts of subscription and
'issue. In the first case, dealing with this question (Knox
County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539), it was:said that a purchaser
of such bonds had the right to assume that the condition of
their issue had been complied with, merely from the facts
of the subscription and issue. But in this case there was a
recital, and subsequent cases have. limited the adjudication
to the precise point necessarily decided. Citizens' Savings
Association v. Perry County, ub. sup. In Supervisors v.
Schenck, 5 Wall. 772, it was said obiter by Mr. Justice Clifford,
speaking of bonds of the kind under consideration, "the bona
fide holder has a right to presume they were issued under the
circumstances .which give the requisite authority." The same
dictum was.in substance repeated by the same justice in
Lexington v. Butler, 14 Wall. 282-296.

In Pendleton County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 297, it appeared that
the county of Pendleton had issued bonds in aid of a railrQad
company.. An act of the legislature gave the county the authority to issue the bonds, provided a majority of the real
estate owners of the county should so vote. 'One of the pleas
of -the defendant in an action on the bonds was that they had
never been authorized by the vote prescribed in the act which
gave the power to issue them. This plea was demurred to,
and the court passed upon the question thus raised. Mr.
Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"If the right to subscribe be made dependent upon the result of a popular vote, the officers of the county must first
determine whether the vote had been taken as directed by
law, and what tlhe vote was. When, therefore, they make a
subscription, and issue county bonds in payment, it may fairly
be presumed, in favor of an innocent purchaser of the bonds,
that the condition which the law attaches to the exercise of
thepower, has been fulfilled. To issue the bonds without the
fulfillment of the precedent conditions would be a misdemeanor,
and it is to be presumed that public officers act rightly. We do

QUINLAN v. GREEN COUNTY.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not say this is a conclusive presumption in all cases, but it
has more than once been decided that a county may be estopped
against asserting that the conditions attached to a grant of
power were not fulfilled."
In this case there was no recital in the bond. It appeared
by the pleadings that the bonds had been exchanged for the
stock of the railroad company which 'was retained, and the
decision was based upon the ground that the retention of the
stock created an estoppel.
In the case of Coloma v.Eaves, 92 U. S. 484, the opinion of
the court lends some countenance to the broad principle stated
in Knox v. Aspinwall, but Mr. Justice Bradley, in a concurring
opinion, said:
"I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, so far
as it may be construed to reaffirm the first point asserted in
the case of Knox County v. Aspinwall, to wit, that the mere
execution of a bond by officers charged with the duty of ascertaining whether a condition precedent has been performed
is conclusive proof of its performance. If, when the law requires a vote of taxpayers before bonds can be issued, the supervisor of a township, or thejudge of probate of a county, or other
officer or magistrate, is the officer designated to ascertain
whether such vote has been given, and is also- the proper officer
to execute, and who does execute, the bonds, and if the bonds
themselves contain a statement or recital that such vote has
been given, then the bona fide purchaser of the bonds need go,
back no farther. He has a right to rely on the statement as a
determination of the question. But a mere execution and issue
of the bonds without such recital is not, in my judgment,
conclusive. It may be prima jacie sufficient, but the contrary
may be shown. This seems to me to be the true distinction
to be taken on this subject; and I do not think that the contrary
has ever been decided by this court. "
These cases left it uncertain whether the court would give
to the facts of subscription to stock and issue of bonds in payment therefor by officers charged with the duty of ascertaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

whether conditions precedent had' b6en complied with, the
same conclusive effect as to the validity of the bonds which
would exist when to 'those facts was added a recital in the
bonds themselves. But the tendency, observable in the earlier
cases, to deny to bonds in the hands of an innocent holder any
other defense than a want of power of the maker was arrested
by the cases, of Buchanan v. Litchfield, 102 U. S. 278, and
Citizens'. Savings Association v. Perry County, ub. sup., which
held that the mere facts of the subscription to stock and issue
of bonds containing no recital left it open to the obligor to show
that a condition precedent had not been fulfilled. But these
cases in no way conflict with the view expressed by Mr. Justice
Strong in Pendleton County v. Amy, and by Mr. Justice Bradley
in Coloma v. Eaves, .that a presumption arises from the mere
fact of subscription and issue, though not a conclusive one.
Independent of authority such a presumption exists and is
but an instance of the broader presumption that officers
charged with the performance of a public duty perform it
correctly. In the case at bar the judge of the County Court
was charged with the duty of issuing the bonds upon the performance of the condition precedent.' That condition was that
the county should be "fully and completely exonerated from
the payment of the capital stock voted by said county and
authorized to be subscribed by said Green County Court to the
Elizabethtown and Tennessee Railroad." The performance
of that condition did not necessarily require any formal release
or the execution of. any paper whatever. It was completely
fulfilled, if from any circumstance it should appear that the
county had been effectively relieved from any liability on
account of the vote in aid of the Elizabethtown and Tennessee
Railroad. It would be impossible for any purchaser of the
bonds to ascertain whether this condition had been c6mplied
with, except by an inquiry which would naturally be made of
the judge himself. The .judge determined that it had been
complied with, and the fact that for thirty-eight years no one
has - ade any. claim against the county on account of its sup-

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

posed liability to subscribe to the stock of the Elizabethtown
and Tennessee Railroad shows conclusively that he was right.
Construing the second question to inquire not whether there
is conclusive presumption, but Whether on the facts found
there is any presumption at all that the county had been exonerated from its former subsciption to another railroad, we
answer it

Yes.

TRAVERS v. REINHARDT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 76. _ Aued November 1, 2, 1906.-Decided April 15, 1907.
While the predominant idea of the testator's mind when discovered is to
be heeded as against all doubtful and conflicting provisions which might
defeat it, effect must be given to all the words of a will if by the rules
of law it can be done; and the words "without leaving a wife or child
or children" will not be construed as "without leaving a wife and child
or children," notwithstanding a general dominant interest on the part'
of the testator that his real estate should descend only through his sons.
A man and woman', neither of whom was a resident of Virginia, and who
had not obtained any marriage license, went through a ceremony in
Virginia which the woman thought was a marriage by a clergyman; they
immediately went to New Jersey, she assuming the man's name; they afterwards went to Maryland and then returned to New Jersey permanently,
where they lived and cohabitated as husband and wife and were so regarded for many years until his death, she joining in a mortgage with
hin, and also being described in his wills-as his wife; she meanwhile
and, prior to the later residence in New Jersey, had ascertained that the
person performing the ceremony was not a minister and that there was
no license, but the cohabitation continued and there was testimony that
the man assured her that they were married, and afterwards in his last
will he appointed his wife executrix and she qualified assuch; Held, that:
'Marriage in fact, as distinguished from a ceremonial marriage, may be
proved by habit and repute, and, except in cases of adultery and bigamy
when actual proof is required, may be inferred from continued cohabits-

