BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

for the reason that it was in the custody of the court iii suit
No. 1728, and that the Court in the latter case (lid not extend
the receivership to the No. 1996, nor consolidate the suits,
and, therefore, had no power to order the sale of the property
by the receiver in No. 1728.
"This is tantamount to saying that the absence of formal
orders by the court must prevail over its essential action.
It is clear from the record that the District Court considered
the cases pending before it at the same time, consideced
No. 1996 as the complement of No. 1728, regarded the cases
as in fact consolidated,'and empowered the receiver appointed
in 1728 to sell the property and distribute the proceeds, as
directed by the decree in 1996."
Nothing further need be added to show that the case was
rightly decided. The petition for a rehearing is
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of this case.

BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 216.. Argued March 21. 1907-Decided April 8, 1907.
The old English rule that in chancery sales, until confirmation of the master's report the bidding would be opened upon a mere oqer to advance
the price ten per cent has-been rejected, and a sale will not be set aside
for inadequacy of price unless so great as to shock the conscience or
where there are additional circumstances against its fairness; and each
case stands upon its own facts.
While the confidence in the stability of judicial sales should not be disturbed, a sale under foreclosure of valuable property, worth at least seven
times the amount of the bid, should not be confirmed in the face of an
adverse report by the master and the trial court.
THIS

is an appeal fron a judgment of the Supreme Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

205 U. S.

the Territory of Hawaii, 17 Hawaii, 96, affirming an order of
the third judge of the First Circuit Court in the Territory of
Hawaii, which refused to confirm a sale of property made by a
commissioner under order of court in a foreclosure suit brought
by William 0. Smith, as trustee, against the Pacific Heights
Electric Railway Company, Limited, a Hawaiian corporation,
and directed that the property be again offered for sale. The
suit was brought to foreclose a trust deed of fifty thousand
dollars executed by the railway company to Smith, as trustee,
on April 1, 1902, and purporting to convey an electric railway
two and one-half miles in length and running up to Pacific
Heights, with its equipment of every kind, and also all land
and other property conveyed to it by deed from one Charles S.
Desky, dated January 25, 1902.
The sale was made on February 4, 1905, for the sum of
eleven hundred dollars. It was in bulk of the entire property
covered by the mortgage, except a cable and condenser, which
were of comparatively little value, and which, for reasons not
at all affecting the merits of this controversy, were not sold
with the balance of the property. The commissioner who
made the sale reported that the amount-realized was disproportionate to the value of the property sold, and recommended that it should not be confirmed, but that such further
order should be made as to the court should seem meet in the
premises. On the hearing of a motion to confirm the sale
and objections thereto, the trial court found that the evidence
was overwhelming that the actual value of the property was
at least seven times the amount at which the property was
struck'off, that being the highest and best bid therefor.
Mr. David L. Withington, with whom Mr. William R. Castle
was on the brief, for appellants:
The sale should have been confirmed. It was regularly,
conducted and no fraud, unfairness or irregularity of any kind
is alleged..
The single question presented under this head is, whether

BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
205 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

inadequacy of price uncoupled with any irregularity and by
any circumstances indicating either fraud or unfairness, where
it is not claimed that the inadequacy of price is evidence of
.fraud or unfairness, will authorize the court to set aside the
sale.
Before the decision in this case by the court below the point
had been settled in Hawaii in a very similar case, cited and
approved by the court in its opinion, in which although the
court found that the cost of repairing would be greater than
the value of the vessel repaired, which is the case of this railroad, it declined to consider it as a wrecking proposition,
which is a pure matter of conjunction, which is this case, and
after holding that the purpose of confirmation was to determine
whether the sale was "fairly and properly conducted." Smith
v. City of Columbia, 11 Hawaii, 709.
Byers v. Surget, 19 How. 303 and Graffam v. Burgess, 117
U. S. 180, 186 are reviewed in a more recent case recognizing
the rule that other circumstances than mere inadequacy of
price are generally necessary. Schroeder v. Young, 161 U. S.
334.
Many cases sustain the proposition that gross inadequacy
of itself is not sufficient.
Nor is mere inadequacy apart from the circumstances of
the case of itself, however gross it may be, evidence of irregularity or unfairness. It is only in connection with. the
circumstances of the case which of themselves might not be
sufficient to evidence fraud, irregularity or unfairness that the
court may, because of the grossness of the inequality, infer
fraud, irregularity or unfairness.
In the case at bar .there is no allegation or
contention that
here was fraud, irregularity or unfairness, or that the inadequacy evidenced any of these.
The discretion to set aside a judicial sale is a legal discretion
and not an arbitrary one, and is to be exercised under the
rules of law and the exercise of this discretion under an erroneous rule of law is clear error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

205 U. S.

The authority of the circuit judge must be exercised and
governed by the principles of judicial discretion under the
rules of law. Ex parte Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 129 U. S.
206; Blossom v. The Milwaukee and Chicago R.R. Co., 1 Wall.
655.
Mr. F. M. Hatch, with whom Mr. William 0. Smith, Mr. A.
Lewis, Junior, and Mr. L. J. Warren were on the brief, for
appellee Smith:
Authorities from other jurisdictions are clearly in support
of the principle here decided and applied, many of them going
beyond the extent required to uphold the ruling before us.
As to the use of the alternative "or" instead of "and,"
whereby it meant that gross inadequacy of price, shocking
to the conscience, is sufficient of itself, see: Graffam v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 180, 191; Rorer, Judicial Sales, § 28; 17 Am. &
Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 1000-1002; Magann v. Segal, 92
Fed. Rep. 252, 259; Pewabic Mining Co. v. Mason, 145 U. S.
367; Fidelity Ins. Co. & S. D. Co. v. Roanoke St. Ry. Co., 98
Fed. Rep. 476; Marlett v. Warwick, 18 N.J. Eq. 111.
For cases as to a sacrifice being sufficient see: Ganst v.
Moss, 20 Illinois, 549; Page v. Kress, 80 Michigan, 85.
A marked distinction should be preserved between cases
where the application for a resale is made before and where
after confirmation by the court. In the one case the sale
is incomplete; in the other, the act of confirmation has made
it complete and given the purchaser a vested right which he
had not before held. Cases where the application for resale
is made after there has been an acceptance of the bid by the
court and a confirmation of the sale are not, then, we submit,'
fair precedents for cases like that at bar, where there has been a
rejection of. the bid and no confirmation and the application
is promptly made.
For other cases as to the rights of a bidder before and after
confirmation see: Rorer, Judicial Sales, § 545; Wiltsie, Mortgage Foreclosure, § 469; 2 ,Jones on Mortgages, §§ 1637, 1641.

I BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State v. Campbell, 5 S. Dak. 636; and see 10 Wisconsin, 123;
63 N. Car. 379.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented is whether a court of equity may,
prior to any order of confirmation, set aside a foreclosure sale
of mortgaged property upon the single ground of inadequacy
in price; and further, whether, if it has that power, the inadequacy here shown is so gross as to justify such action. It
does not appear that there was any fraudulent conduct on
the part of the purchaser or any combination to restrict bidding. The sale was duly advertised. It was, so far as disclosed, open and public, and the bid reported was the highest.
Nothing in time or place or lack of attendance of buyers is
shown. Many of the considerations, therefore, which have
influenced courts of equity to set aside judicial sales are not
to be found in the present case. Indeed, the only substantial
objection is that the amount of the bid is largely below the
value of the property. Something may be said on each side
of the question; on the one, that a court of equity owes a duty
to the creditors seeking its assistance in subjecting property
to the payment of debts, to see that the. property brings something like its true value in order that to the extent of that
value the debts secured upon the property may be paid; that
it owes to them something more than to merely take care that
the forms of law are complied with, and that the purchaser
is guilty of no fraudulent act; on the other, that it is the right
of one bidding in good faith, at an open and public sale, to
have the property for which he bids struck off to him if he be
the highest and best bidder; that if he be free from wrong he
should not be deprived of the benefit of his bid simply because
others do not bid or because parties interested have done
nothing to secure the attendance of those who would likely
give for the property something nearer its value; that if the
VOL. CCV-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

creditors make no effort and are willing to take the chances
of a 'general. attendance, they have no right to complain on
the ground that the property did not bring what it should
have brought.
In England the old rule was that in chancery sales, until
confirmation of the master's report, the bidding would be
opened upon a mere offer to advance the price ten per cent;
but this rule has been rejected, and now both in England and
this country a sale will not be set aside for mere inadequacy
of price, unless that inadequacy be so gross as to shock
the conscience, or unless there be additional circumstances
against its fairness. But if there be great inadequacy, slight
circumstances of unfairness in the conduct of the party benefited by the sale. will be sufficient to justify setting it aside.
Graffam v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 180, 191, 192. It is difficult to
formulate any rule. more definite than this, and each case must
stand upon its own peculiar facts.
. it was said by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in Mayhew v. West
Virginia Oil & Oil Land Company, 24 Fed. Rep. 205, 215, "that
in chancery a bidder at a sale by a master, under a decree of
court, is not considered a purchaser until the report of sale is
confirmed." See also Magann v. Segal, 92 Fed. Rep. 252,
255; Jennings v. Dunphy, 174 Illinois, 86; Vanbussum v.
Maloney, 2 Met. (Ky.) 550, 552; Sumner v. Sessoms, 94 N. Car.
371; Branch v. Griffin, 99 N. Car. 173. The power of a court
of equity in reference to a resale was affirmed by this court in
Pewabic Mining Company v. Mason, 145 U. S.349, in which
case we said (p. 356):
"'.'The question in this case is whether the master's sale shall

stand. It may be stated generally that there is a measure of
discretion in a court of eqtity, both as to the manner and the
conditions of such a: sale, as well as to ordering or refusing a
resale. The chancellor will always make such provisions 'for
notice and other conditions as will in his judgment best protect the rights of all interested, and make the sale most profitable to all; and after a 'sale has once been' made he will,

BALLENTYNE v. SMITH.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certainly before confirmation, see that no wrong has been
accomplished in and by the manner in which it was conducted."
See also Schroeder v. Young, 161 U. S.334.
Now, in the case before us, the commissioner who made the
sale reported against its confirmation. It was not confirmed
but set aside by the trial court, which found that the evidence
was overwhelming that the actual value of the property was
at least seven times the amount of the bid. While the testimony is not preserved, it is stated by the Supreme Court of
the Territory that it was claimed that only four years before
the sale the property cost $78,000, exclusive of the right of
way. It was, in fact, bonded less than three years before for
$50,000. Speaking in general terms, it consisted of an electric
railway'two and a half miles in length, two freight cars, two
passenger cars, and other appliances for running the railway.
All this was sold for $1,100. The action of the trial court in
setting aside the sale was approved by the Supreme Court of
the Territory.
Under the circumstances we think the order of the Supreme
Court should be sustained. While we are disinclined to any
action which will impair confidence in the stability of judicial
sales, yet with the concurrence of judicial opinion adverse
Ato this sale, considering the amount of property sold, the
meager sum bid by the purchaser, the express finding that
the overwhelming testimony was to the effect that the property
was worth at least seven times more than the sum bid, and also
recognizing that the courts which have passed upon this question are much more familiar with the condition of things .in
Hawaii, and therefore more competent to appreciate the
significance of the transactions attending the sale, we have
come to the conclusion that it would not be right to reverse
the ruling below and confirm the sale.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Hawaii is
Affirmed.

