HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Syflabus.

Holmes, 155 U. S. 137. No doubt the decisions cited and
others show that where a right to take the case up exists at
the time of the original judgment, the time limited for the
writ of error on appeal does not begin to run until the petition for rehearing is disposed of. But there are limits to
even that rule. When an appeal, in bankruptcy, required
by General Orders in Bankruptcy, xxxvi, 2, to be brought
within thirty days -after the judgment or decree, was not
brought within that time, the fact that a petition for rehearing
was filed within the time required by the court below, but
after the thirty days, was held not to prolong the time for
appeal. "The appellant could not reinvest himself with that
right by filing a petition for rehearing." Conboy v. First
National Bank of Jersey City, 203 U. S. 141, 145. Ifat the
time of final judgment there is no right of appeal whatever,
it is perhaps even plainer that a party cannot evoke a new one
by filing a petition for rehearing, even if, by accident, it is
kept along until an act giving an appeal is passed. Whether
in any event a writ of error would lie in this case it is unnecessary to decide.
Writ of error dismissed.

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. CITY OF DES MOINES.
PEOPLE'S SAVINGS BANK v. SAME.
DES MOINES SAVINGS BANK v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

Nos. 82, 83, 92. Argued November -, 5, 1906.-Restored to the docket for reargument December 3, 1906.-Reargued March 5, 1907.-Decided April 22, 1907.
The Constitution has conferred upon the Government power to borrow
money on the credit of the United States and that power cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

205 U. S.

burdened, impeded, or in any way affected, by the action of any State.
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449.
The tax upon the property of a bank in which United States securities are
included is beyond the power of the State, and is also within the prohibition of § 3701, Rev. Stat., and other acts of Congress.
While the tax on an individual in respect to his shares in a corporation is
not a tax on the corporation, and the ' lue of the shares may be assessed
without regard to the fact that the assets of the corporation include
government securities, if the tax is actually on the corporation although
nominally on the shares such securities may not be included in assessing
the value of the shares for taxation.
If a State has not the power to levy a tax it will not be sustained merely
because another tax which it might lawfully impose would have the
same ultimate incidence.
The substantial effect of section 1332 of the Code of Iowa providing that
shares of stock of state and savings banks and loan and trust companies
shall be assessed to such banks and companies and not to the individual
stockholders, and that in fixing the value of the shares capital, surplus
and undivided earnings shall be taken into account, as the law has been
construed by the highest court. of the State, is to tax the property of the
bank and not the shares of stock, and an assessment which includes government bonds owned by the bank in fixing the valuation of its shares
is illegal and beyond the power of the State.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. T. Guernsey, Mr. William J. Harvison and Mr.
George F. Henry, with whom Mr.Horatio F. Dale was on the
brief, for plaintiffs inerror:
In so far as § 1322 of the Iowa code authorizes the taxation
of United States bonds, .it
is void because in contravention of
the Constitution and statutes of the United States.' Rev. Stat.
§ 3701; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 448; Bank v. New York,
2 B1. 620; Bank Tax Cases, 2 Wall. 200; Act of June 13,
1898.
The section provides that shares of stock of state and
savings banks shall be assessed to such banks and not to the
individual stockholders. It distinguishes between shares of
stock in national banks and in savings banks, the former being
assessed to the shareholders, the bank being merely the collecting agent and the shareholders being permitted to deduct

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

their debts, while the latter are assessed to the bank, which is
required to pay the tax, without any right to reimbursement
from the shareholder, the shareholder having no right to deduct
debts. Bank v. Rerick, 96 Iowa, 238, 242; Code, § 1325.
Section 1322 of the Code of Iowa in fact imposes a tax upon
the capital of the plaintiff in error, and therefore its government bonds should have been deducted.
The construction of this section by the Supreme Court of'
Iowa must be accepted. Railroad Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.
503, 507.
The tax imposed by this statute, as it is construed by the
Supreme Court of Iowa, is nothing more than a tax on capital,
void in so far as the capital is invested in government bonds.
Code, § 1321.
The tax is against the owner of the bonds, upon an assessment which includes the value of the bonds, without provision for reimbursement by the shareholder. It therefore
does not come within the rule of Van Allen v. Assessors,
3 Wall. 573, because the tax is neither assessed against nor
paid by the owner of the bonds.
The court will look to the substance and effect of the statute.
Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 598.
Applying this test, the statute is a tax on the capital of the
corporation,'New Orleans v. Houston, 119 U. S. 278; St. Johns
National Bank v. Bingham Township, 113 Michigan, 203, and
this is held in the German-American Savings Bank case.
The doctrine of equivalency invoked by the Supreme Court
of Iowa makes the tax in fact a tax on the bonds. Owensboro
Nat'l Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664.
A tax on the value of the capital is a tax .on the property
in which the capital is invested. RailroadCo. v. Pennsylvania,
198 U. S.341, 353; Stapylton v. Thaggard, 91 Fed. Rep. 93;
National Bank of. Virginia v. Richmond, 42 Fed. Rep. 877;
Brown v. French, 80 Fed. Rep. 166.
To! the same effect in principle are the cases holding- that
the shares of a national bank cannot be taxed to it in solido.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

205 U. S.

First National Bank v. Fisher, 45 Kansas, 726; National Bank
of Chemung v. Elmira, 53 N. Y. 49; Sumpter County v. National
Bank of Gainesville, 62 Alabama, 464; City of Springfield v.
First National Bank, 87 Missouri, 441; First National Bank v.
Meredith, 44 Missouri, 500; National Com. Bank v. Mobile,
62 Alabama, 284. See also National Bank v. Hoffman, 93 Iowa,
119; People ex rel. v. Coleman, 126 N. Y. 433.
The statute cannot be sustained upon the theory that it
makes the bank a mere collecting agent for the State.
In such cases.the tax is not upon the property of the
bank,
and provision iEsalways made for its reimbursement. Stapylton v. Thaggard, 91 Fed. Rep. 93; Bank v. Commonwealth, 9
Wall. 353, 362; Hershirev. First Nat'l Bank, 35 Iowa, 272, 277.
There is no conflict between these cases and Cleveland Trust
Co. v. Lander, 184 U. S. 111.
There the law provided for taxing the shares to the shareholder and for reitribursement by him.
If § 1322 requires the taxation of the shares of the shareholders to the bank, it is void because within the inhibition
of the Fourteenth Amendment, A tax exacted without
jurisdiction is the taking of property without due process of
law. Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Corry v.
Baltimore, 196 U. S.466.
If what this statute requires is a tax upon the .property of
the sharoholders assessed against and to be paid by the. bank,
without provision for its reimbursement, the bank is deprived
of its property without due process of law, and the law itself
is void. State Tax on Foreign-held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319;
Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.), 1, 3, 12 and 27; County of Santa
Clara v. Southern Pac. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385, 392; United
States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322; Henkle v. Town of
Keota, 68 Iowa, 334.
Mr. William H. Bremner, with whom Mr. M. H. Cohen was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The assessment is not void merely because it was assessed

HOME SAVINGSBANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

in the wrong name. Weston & Co. v. Cass Co., 69 Iowa, 147;
First National Bank v. Concord, 59 N. H. 75.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa as to the form
of the assessment and failure to comply with the state statute
in relation to the method of procedure is binding on the Supreme
Court of the United States. Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany,
121 U. S.535; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S.662.
Questions not raised in the lower court will not be considered
on appeal. Sunley vI Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. 105 N. W. Rep.
408 (Iowa); McCormick Harvester Co. v. McCormick, 103
N. W. Rep. 204 (Iowa); Stelpflug v. Wolfe, 102 N. W. Rep. 1130
(Iowa); Hamilton Mfg. Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632.
Section 1322 is not void as in contravention of the Constitution and statutes of the United States.
The construction and meaning given to a statute of a State
by the Supreme Court of such State is binding on the Supreme
Court of the United States. Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander,
184 U. S.111; L. & N. R. R. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.503-507.
For construction of § 1322 of the Code of Iowa, as determined by the Supreme Court of Iowa, see German Am. Say.
Bank v. Burlington, 118 Iowa, 84; N'ational State Bank v.
Burlington, 119 Iowa, 696; FirstNational Bank v. Independence,
123 Iowa, 482.
The State has the power to assess for taxation corporate
shares of stock without deducting, in determining their value,
the value of United States government, bonds held by the
corporation. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 584; First
National Bank v. Farwell, 10 Biss. 270; People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244; National Bank v. Miller, 19 Fed. Rep.
378; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; Cleveland
Trust Co. v. Lander, 184 U. S.111.
A tax on the shares of stock (of a bank is not a tax on its
,capital stock. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Palmer v.
McMahon, 135 U. S. 662; Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander, 184
U. S. 111; German Am. Savings Bank v. Burlington, 118 Iowa,
84; First National Bank v. Independence, 123 Iowa, 482.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

A bank may be required to pay the taxes on the shares of
stock of its stockholders. Primghar State Bank v. Rerick,
96 Iowa, 238; German Am. Savings Bank v. Burlington, supra;
National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; First National
Bank v. Douglas Co., 3 Dill. 330; Lionberger v. Rouse, 9 Wall.
470.
The statute is not void because it does not provide for personal notice to the shareholders. National Bank v. Dodge,
Assessor, 119 Fed. Rep. 57; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S.
662; Merchants' and Mfg. Natl. Bank v. Commonwealth, 167
U. S. 461; St. Clara Co. v. Southern Pac. R. Co., 8 C. C. A.
401.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases raise the same Federal question.. The plaintiffs in error were banking institutions incorporated under the
laws of the State of Iowa. Upon each of them a tax was
levied under a law of that State, which provided that "Shares
of stock of state and savings banks and loan and trust companies
shall be assessed to such banks and loan and trust companies
and not to individual stockholders." The material sections of
the code are printed in the margin.'
1 SEc. 1322. Shares of stock of national banks shall be assessed to the

individual stockholders at the place where the bank is located. Shares ol
stock o/ state and savings banks and loan and trust companies shall be assessed
to such banks and loan and trust companies and not to the individual stockholders. At the time the assessment is made, the officers of national banks
shall furnish the assessor with a list of all the stockholders and the number
of shares owned by each, and he shall list to each stockholder under the head
of corporation stock the total value of such shares. To aid the assessor in
fixing the value of such shares, the corporations shall furnish him a verified
statement of all the matters provided in the preceding section, which shall
also show, separately, the amount of capital stock, and the surplus and
undivided earnings, and the assessor, from such statement and other information he can 6btain, including any statement furnikshed to and information obtained by the Auditor of State, which shall be furnished him on request, shall fix the value of such stock, taking into account the capital,
surplus and undivided earnings. In arriving at the total value of the shares

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Each bank owned at the time to which the assessment
related United States bonds, the value of which they insisted
should be deducted from the valuation of the property assessed
to them. The taxing authorities refused to make that deduction, and their action was sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State, whose judgments haye been brought here by writs
of error for review.
These banks were corporations created by the State of Iowa.
In imposing burdens upon them, their property, or their
shares, the State does not, as in the case of national banks,
require any authority from the United States. Its own
governmental power is sufficient for the imposition of such
taxes,. assessed by such methods, and under such standards of
valuation as it may choose, unless something is done which
violates- some provision of the Federal Constitution, or of a
Federal law which by that Constitution is made supreme.
The only claim of violation of Federal right which need be
considered here is that bonds of the United States have been
taxed. It is conceded and cannot be disputed that these
securities are beyond the taxing power of the State, and the
only question, therefore,' is whether in point of fact the State
of stock of such corporations, the amount of their capital actually invested
in real estate, owned by them, shall be deducted from the real value of such
shares, and such real estate shall be assessed as other real estate, and the
property of such corporations shall not be otherwise assessed.
SEc. 1325. The corporations described in the preceding sections shall be
liable for the payment of the taxes assessed to the stockholders of such corporations, and such tax shall be payable by the corporation in the same manner
and under the same penalties as in case of taxes due from an individual taxpayer, and may be collected in the same manner as other taxes, or by action
in the name of the county. Such corporations may recover from each stockholder his proportion of the taxes so paid, and shall have a lien on his stock
and unpaid dividends therefor. If the unpaid dividends are not sufficient
to pay such tax, the corporation may enforce such lien on the stock by public
sale of thetsame, to be made by the sheriff at the principal office of such corporation in this State, after giving the stockholders thirty days' notice of the
amount of such tax and the time and place of sale, such notices to be by
registered letter addressed to the stockholder at his post office address, as
the same appears upon the books of the company, or is known by its secretary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

has taxed them. The first step useful in the solution of this
question is to ascertain with precision the nature .of the tax
in controversy, and upon what property it was levied, and
that step must be taken by an examination of the taxing law
as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State. A superficial reading of the law would lead to the conclusion that the
tax authorized by it is ,a tax upon the shares of stock. The
assessment is expressed to be upon "shares of stock of state
and savings banks and loan and trust companies." But
the true interpretation of the law cannot rest upon a single
phrase in it. All its parts must be considered in the manner
pursued by this court in New Orleans v. Houston, 119 U. S.
265, 278, and Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594,
with the view of determining the end accomplished by the
taxation, and its actual and substantial purpose and effect. We
must inquire whether the law really imposes a tax upon the
shares of stock as the property of their owners, or merely
adopts the value of those shares as the measure of valuation
of the property of the corporation, and by that standard taxes
that property itself. The result of this inquiry is of vital
importance, because there may be a tax upon the shares of a
corporation, which are property distinct fron that owned by
the corporation and with a different owner, without an allowance of the exemption due to the property of the corporation
itself, while, if the tax is upon the corporation's property,
all exemptions due it must be allowed. Looking then further
into the law, it appears that the shares are to be "assessed to
such banks, . . . and not to the individual stockholders."
When this is read the doubt instantly arises whether the law
intended to tax the corporation for property which it does not
own, but which on the contrary is owned by the stockholders.
Certainly such a purpose, against common justice and of
doubtful constitutionality, ought not to be attributed to the
law if any. other fair construction is possible. With respect
to taxation usually, if not necessarily, property and its owners
are inseparable. Taxes are assessed against persons upon

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the property which they own, not upon property which others
own. We should-be reluctant to suppose that there has been
any departure from this principle in this law. It, however,
is not an uncommon and is an entirely legitimate method
of collecting taxes to require a corporation, as the agent of
its shareholders, to pay in the first instance the taxes upon
shares, as the property of their owners, and look to the shareholders for reimbursement. In this very law we have an
example of this method. By § 1322, national bank shares
are assessed to the stockholders, and by § 1325, the corporations
are made liable to pay the tax and are secured by a lien on
the stock and dividends, which may be enforced by sale.
The state banking corporations are excluded ex industria from
this statutory right of reimbursement by confining it to the cases
of "taxes assessed to the stockholders of such corporation."
This cannot include the case of state bank shares which are
not so assessed. Nor can the corporations in the case at bar
have by any possibility a common law right to recover the
tax paid from the shareholders. The law imposes no obligation on the shareholder. In paying the tax the corporation
has paid its own debt, and not that of others, and there is
nothing in such a payment from which the law can imply a
promise of reimbursement. These taxes, therefore, are not to
be paid by the banks as agents of their stockholders, but as
their own debt, and unless it is supposed that the law requires
them to pay taxes upon property which they do not own, the
taxes must be regarded as taxes upon the property of the banks.
The fair interpretation of the law is that the taxes are upon
the property of the banks. In the valuation for taxation the
assessor is required to "take into account the capital, surplus
and undivided earnings," must be furnished with "a verified
statement of all matters provided by the preceding section,"
which by reference is seen to be a detailed statement showing
the assets of the bank (§1321). 1 It is true that the assessor
I SEC. 1321. Private bankers.

Private banks or bankers, or any persons

other than corpoiations hereinafter specified, a part of whose business is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U S.

may resort to "other information he can obtain," but, although capital, surplus and undivided earnings are expressly
named, nothing is said of the franchise and good will, essential
factors of the value of the shares, though not of the value of
the assets of the bank. See People v. Coleman, 126 N. Y. 433.
Moreover, the section closes with the words, "and the property of such corporation shall not be otherwise assessed,"
which plainly implies that the assessment already provided
for isin substance an assessment upon the property of the

corporation. That the law was administered upon ,the theory
that the tax was upon the property of the corporation is
signally. illustrated by the proceedings in these cases. The
valuation was first made on the exact figures of the capital,
surplus, and undivided earbings, deducting the holdings of

United States securities. Then, upon being advised that
the deduction was erroneous, the assessor corrected the valreceiving of deposits subject to-check, on certificate, receipts or otherwise,
or the selling of exchange, shall prepare and furnish to the assessor a sworn
statement showing the assets, aside from real estate, and liabilities of such
bank or banker on January 1st of the current year, as follows:
1. The amount of moneys, specifying separately the amount of moneys on
hand or in transit, the funds in the hands of other banks, bankers, brokers or
other persons or corporations, and the amount of checks or other cash items
not included in either of the preceding items;
2. The actual value of credits, consisting of bills receivable owned by them
and other credits due or to become due;
3. The amount of all deposits made with them by others, and also the
amount of bills payable;
4. The actual value of bonds and stocks of every kind and shares of capital
stock or joint stock of other corporations or companies held as an investment,
or in any way representing the assets, and the specific kinds and descriptions
thereof exempt from taxation;
5. All other property pertaining to said business, including real estate,
which shall be specially listed and valued by the usual description therbof;
The aggregate actual value of moneys and credits, after deducting therefrom the amount of deposits and of debts owing by such banks, as provided
in this chapter, and the aggregate actual value of bonds and stocks after
deducting the portion thereof, exempt or otherwise, taxed in this State, and
also the other property pertaining to the business shall be assessed at twentyfive per cent of the actual value of the same, not including real estate, which
shall be listed and assessed as other real estate.

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

uation by adding the value of the securities deducted. We
therefore conclude that the substantial effect of the law is to
require taxation upon the property, not including the franchise,
of the banks, and that the value of the shares, ascertained
in a manner appropriate to determine the value of the assets,
is only the standard or measure by which the taxable valuation
of that property is determined. This we think is consistent
with the interpretation of the law by the Supreme Court of
Iowa, which sustained the taxation upon grounds which will
be presently considered.
The next question is whether such taxation violates any
provision of the Federal Constitution or of any paramount
Federal law. The State cannot by any form of taxation
impose any burden upon any part of the national public debt.
The Constitution has conferred upon the Government power
to borrow money on the credit of the United States, and
that power cannot be burdened or impeded or in any way
affected by the action of any State. This principle was
announced in Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, where it was
held that taxes upon the stock of the United States levied by
one of the municipal corporations of South Carolina were
invalid. From that time no one has questioned the immunity
of national securities from state taxation. It may well be
doubted whether Congress has the power to confer upon the
States the right to tax obligations of the United States. However this may be, Congress has never yet attempted to confer
such a right. Until the time of the Civil War it was not
thought to be necessary to express the constitutional prohibition in an act- of Congress. But on the occasion of authorizing the issue of Treasury notes it was enacted that
"all stocks, bonds, and other securities of the United States
held by individuals, corporations, or associations within the
United States shall be exempt from taxation by or udder
state authority." Act of February 25, 1862, 12 Stat. at
Large, 346. The substance of this enactment is embodied
in §.3701 of the Revised Statutes, and has usually, if not
VOL. Cov-33.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

invariably, since 1862 been inserted in acts authorizing the
issue of bonds.
That the tax upon the property of a bank in which United
States securities are included is beyond the power of the
State, and, what perhaps is of lesser moment, within the prohibition of the statutory law, hardly needs to be proved by
authority. But the authority is clear and conclusive. With
the beginning of the Civil War large amounts of the national
securities began to be issued. So important it was to sustain
the national credit that, as we have seen, Congress for the
first time began the practice of accompanying the authority
for their sale with an express prohibition of their taxation by
the States. The state banks often invested a large part or
the whole of their resources in these securities, and the question of their liability to state taxation on their capital and
surplus thus invested at once arose. The Bank of Commerce,
incorporated under the laws of New York, invested all its
capital, except its investment in real estate, in United States
bonds. Under the authority of a law requiring that the capital stock should be assessed at its actual value a tax was
levied. The Court of Appeals of New York sustained the
tax so far as it applied to securities issued before the act of
1862, expressly declaring their exemption, and annulled it
so far as it applied to securities thereafter issued. The case
came here on a writ of error. Bank of Commer~e v. New
York City, 2 Black, 620. This court held the tax invalid on all
securities, without even alluding to the act of 1862, but basing
the decision entirely upon the constitutional inability of a
State to affect by taxation the exercise of the sovereign power
of the Nation in borrowing money on its credit. This was
the rule specifically declared in Weston v. Charleston, as an
application of the general rule of the immunity from state
control of the operations of the Federal Government in the
region of its supremacy. To the argument, which was strenuoualy urged, that the tax was not upon the securities but
upon the capital of the bank, and that thereby the case was

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

distinguished from Weston v. Charleston, the court, by Mr.
Justice Nelson, replied: "We cannot yield our assent to the
soundness of the distinction."
The State of New York then amended its law, and enacted
that banks should be "liable to taxation on a valuation equal
to the amount of capital stock paid in, or secured to be paid in,
and their surplus earnings." The Validity of taxation under
the amended law was considered in the Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall.
200* There it was insisted that the tax was imposed upon
the corporation and not its property, and that the statute
onlyprescribed a measure of the amount annually to be paid
for the franchises. But the court held that the amendment
simply changed the method of fixing the amount of capital,
and that the tax was upon the capital, which, so far as invested
in national securities, was beyond the power of the State.
The case at bar cannot be distinguished in principle from
these cases. In the first case the tax was on the capit al
stock at its actual value; in the second case on the amount
of the capital stock and the surplus earnings, and in the case
at bar on the shares of the stock, taking into account the
capital, surplus and undivided earnings. It would be difficult
for the most ingenious mind and the most accomplished pen
to state any distinction between these three laws, except in
the manner by which they all sought the same end-the
taxation 6f the property of the bank. The slight concealment afforded by the omission of the property eo nomine
is not sufficient to disguise the fact that in effect it is the
property which is taxed. If included in that property it i
discovered that there is some which is entitled by Federal
right to an immunity, it is the duty. of this court to see that
the immunity is respected.
It is, however, contended that although these cases have
not been overruled, distinctions have been drawn in later
cases which are applicable here, and withdraw the cases before
the court from their authority. These later cases must therefore be considered and their exact effect determined. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

may quickly put out of view those not relied upon here, in
which it has been held that the State may levy a tax upon the
value of the franchise of corporations created by it, or upon
the right of succession to property on the death of its owner,
without first deducting the amount of United States securities
owned by the. corporation whose franchise is taxed, or by
the estate transmitted under the inheritance laws of the State.
Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institutionv.
Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Hamilton Company v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Home Insurance Company v. New York,
134 U. S. 594; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115. The theory
of all these cases is that the taxes are not imposed upon the
assets of the corporation or the property of the decedent, but
in the one case upon the franchise granted by the State and
in the other case upon the right of succession to property on
the death of the owner which is conferred by the State.
But another, line of cases cannot so easily be dismissed.
They were, relied upon by the Supreme Court of Iowa, and
the respect due to the 6pinion of that court demands that
the reasons why we .think those cases do not apply to the
case at bar should be fully stated. These cases relate to
the right of the State to tax at their full value shares of stock
as the property of the shareholders. Although the States
may. not in any form levy a tax upon United States securities,
they may tax, as the property of their owners, the shares'of
banks and other corporations whose assets consist in whole
or inpart of such securities, and in valuing the shares for the
purposes of taxation it'is not necessary to deduct the value
of the national securities held by the corporation whose shares
are taxed. The right to tax the shares of national banks
arises by Congressional authority, but the right to tax shares.
of state banks exists independently of any such authority,
for the State requires no leave to tax the holdings in its own
.corporations. The right. of such taxation rests upon the
theory that shares in corporations are property entirely distinct .and independent from the property of the corporation.

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The tax on an individual in respect to his shares in a corporation is not regarded as a tax upon the corporation itself.
This distinction, now settled beyond dispute, was mentioned
in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, where, in the opinion
of Chief Justice Marshall, declaring a tax upon the circulation
of a branch bank of the United States beyond the power of
the State of Maryland, it was said that the opinion did not
extend "to a tax imposed on the interest which the citizens
of Maryland may hold in this institution, in common with
other properties of the same description throughout the State."
The distinction appears, however, to have been first made
the basis of a decision in Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall.
573. The National Bank Act, as amended in 1864, Rev. Stat.
§ 5219, permitted the States to include in the valuation of
personal property for taxation, the shares of national banks
."held by any person or body corporate" under certain conditions not necessary here to be stated. Acting under the
authority of this law, the State of New York assessed the
shares of Van Allen in the First National Bank of Albany.
At that time all the capital of the bank was invested in United States securities, and it was asserted that a tax upon the
individual in respect of the shares he held in the bank was,
unless the holdings in United States securities were deducted,
a tax upon the securities themselves. But a majority of the
court held otherwise, saying by Mr..Justice Nelson: "The tax
on the shares is not a tax on the capital of the bank. The
corporation is the legal owner of all the property of the bank,
real and personal; and within the powers conferred upon it
by the charter, and for the purposes for which it was created
can deal with the corporate property as absolutely as a private
individual can deal with his own.

.

.

.

The interest of the

shareholder entitles him to participate in the net profits
earned by the bank in the employment of its capital, during
the existence of its charter, in proportion to the number of
his shares; and upon its dissolution or termination to his
proportion of the property that may remain of the corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

after the payment of its debts. This is a distinct independent
interest or property, held by the shareholder like any other
property that may belong to. him. Now, it is this interest
which the act of Congress has left subject to taxation by the
States, under the limitations prescribed."
In an opinion, in which Justices Wayne and'Swayne joined,
Chief Justice Chase dissented from the judgment upon the
ground that taxation of the shareholders of a corporation in
respect of their shares was an actual though an indirect tax
on the property of the corporation itself. But the distinction
between a tax upon shareholders and one on the-corporate
property, although established over dissent, has come to be
inextricably mingled with all taxing systems and cannot be
disregarded without bringing them into confusion, which
would be little short of chaos.
The Van Allen case has settled the law that a tax upon the
owners of shares of stock. in corporations in respect of that
stock is not a tax upon United States securities which the
corporations own. Accordingly, such taxes have been sustained by this court, whether levied upon the shares of national
banks by virtue of the Congressional permission or upon
shares of state corporations by virtue of the power inherent
in the State to tax .the shares of such corporation. The tax
assessed to shareholders may be required by law -to be paid
in the first instance by the corporations themselves as the
debt and in behalf of the shareholder, leaving to the corporation the right to reimbursement for the tax paid from their
shareholders, either under -some express statutory authority
for their recovery or under the general principle of law that
one who pays the debt of another at his request can recover
the amount from him. National Bank v. Commonwealth,
9 Wall. 353; Lionbergerv. Rouse, 9 Wall. 468; Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440; Merchants Bank V.Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461; Cleveland Trust Company V. Lander,
184 U. §. 111. The theory sustaining these cases is that the
tax was not upon the corporations' holdings of bonds, but on

HOME SAVINGS BANK v. DES MOINES.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the shareholders' holdings of stock, and an examination of
them shows that in every case the tax was assessed upon the
property of the shareholders and not upon the property of
the corporation.1 There is nothing in them which justifies the
tax under consideration here, levied, as has been shown, on
the corporate property. Without further review of the authorities it is safe to say that the distinction established in
the Van Allen case has always been observed by this court,
and that, although taxes by States have been permitted which
might indirectly affect United States securities, they have
never been permitted in any case except where the taxation
has been levied upon property which is entirely distinct and
independent from these securities. On the other hand, whenever, as in these cases, the tax has been upon the property of
the corporation, so far as that property has consisted of such
securities, it has been held void.
One other consideration only needs to be noticed. It is
said that where a tax is levied upon a corporation measured
by the value of the shares in it, it is equivalent in its effect
to a tax (clearly valid) upon the shareholders in respect of
their shares, because, being paid by the bank, the burden falls
eventually upon the shareholders in proportion to their holdings. It was upon. this view that the lower court rested its
opinion. But the two kinds of taxes are not equivalent in
law, because the State has the power to levy one and has not
the power to levy the other. The question here is one of
power and not of economics. If the State has not the power
to levy this tax, we will not inquire whether another tax
which it might lawfully impose would have the same ultimate
incidence. Precisely the same argument was made and rejected in Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S
664. There it appeared that a tax upon the intangible property of a national bank had been levied under the name of a
franchise tax. Such a tax upon one of the agencies of the
I This fact assumed but not -stated in Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander is
shown by the record to exist.

5">0

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

National Government is beyond the power of the State. But
it was contended that although the tax was not in form upon
shares in the -hands of shareholders (a tax lawful by the permission Congress has given), it was the equivalent of .such a
tax., To this contention the court, by Mr. Justice White,
replied: "To be equivalent in law involves the proposition
that a tax on the franchise and property of a bank or. corporation is the equivalent of a tax on the shares of stock -in
the names of the shareholders. But this proposition has been
frequently denied by this court, as to national banks, and has
been overruled to such an extent in many other cases relating
to. exemptions from taxation, or to the power of the State to
tax, that to maintain it now would have the effect to annihilate
the authority to tax in a multitude of cases, and as to vast
sums of property upon which the taxing power is exerted in
virtue of the decision of this court holding that a tax on a
corporation or -its property is not the legal equivalent of a
tax on the stock, in the name of the- stockholders.
If the mere coincidence of the sum of the taxation is to be
allowed. to frustrate the provisions of the act of Congress,
then that act becomes meaningless and the power to enforce
it in any given case will not exist.

.

.

.

The argument

that public policy exacts that where there is an equality in
amount between an unlawful tax and a lawful one, .the unlawful tax should be held valid, does not strike us as worthy of
serious consideration." These words al ply with equal force
to the case at bar. Moreover, it may be said that, if given
the effect claimed, the consideration that the ultimate burden
of. the tax is distributed upon the shareholders in proportion
to their holdings, would have saved the taxes condemned
in the Bank of Commerce case and the Bank. Tax case, and
indbed all taxes. assessed',upon the ,property of corporations,
and the immunity from'state tax of United States bonds
owned by corporations would indirectly be absolutely de.
stroyed.
We regret that we are constrained to differ with the Su-

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
205 U. S.

Syllabus.

preme Court of the State on a question relating to its law.
But holding the opinion that the law directly taxes national
securities, our duty is clear. If by the simple device of adopting the value of corporation shares as the measure of the
taxation of the property of the corporation that property
loses the immunities which the supreme law gives to it, then
national securities may easily be taxed, whenever they are
owned by a corporation, and the national credit has no defense against a serious wound.
Judgments reversed, and cases remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

TICE PECKHAM

and MR. JUS-

dissent.

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 184.

Argued January 26, 28, 1907.-Decided April 29, 1907.

The possession of a temporary receiver in bankruptcy of the proceeds of
property, upon which the bankrupt had fraudulently imposed a lien,
deposited as a special fund to await the further order of the court, did
not affect the rule that under the bankruptcy act of 1898, prior to the
amendment of February 5, 1903, 33 Stat. 797, the state court in which
an action could have been brought prior to the bankruptcy to set aside
the lien had exclusive jurisdiction of a similar action brought by the
trustee. The amendment of February 5, 1903, gave the bankruptcy
court in such a case concurrent, not exclusive, jurisdiction.
Where it was necessary that a trustee -in bankruptcy should represent
judgment creditors in order to attack the validity of a chattel mortgage
given by the bankrupt, if the state court has set the mortgage aside and
the record shows that all the proceedings in the bankruptcy court were
in evidence in the state court, it will be presumed that the trustee represented the necessary claims of creditors, although the evidence is not
returned to this court.
109 App. Div. 914, affirmed.

