OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

WILMINGTON STAR, MINING COMPANY v. FULTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 139.

Argued January 7, 1907.-Decided March 4, 1907.

It is an appropriate exercise of the police power of the State to regulate
the use and enjoyment of mining properties, and mine owners are not
deprived of their property, privileges, or immunities without due process
of law or denied the equal protection of the laws by the Illinois mining
statute of 1899, which requires the employment of only licensed mine
managers and mine examiners, and imposes upon the mine owners liability fo r the willful failure of the manager and examiner to furnish a
reasonably safe place for the workmen.
It is within the power of the State to change or modify, in accord with its
conceptions of public policy, the principles of the common law in regard
to the relation of master and servant; and, in cases within the proper
scope of the police power, to impose upon the master liability for the Willful act of his employ6.
As construed by the highest court of that State, under tie mining act of
Illinois of 1899, a mine -manager and mine examiner are vice-principals
of.the owner and engaged in the performance of duties which the owner
cannot so delegate to others as to relieve himself from responsibility.
Where two concurring causes contribute to an accident to an employ6,
the fact that the master is not responsible for one of them does not absolve him from liability for tie other cause for, which he is responsible.
Where there is no evidence sustaining 'certain counts in the declaration
as to defendant's negligence, he is entitled to an instruction that no
recovery, can be had under those counts, and where, as it was in this
case, the refusal to so instruct is prejudicial error the verdict cannot be
maintained, either at law or under § 57 of the Illinois Practice Act.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William P. Sidley, with whom Mr. Arthur D. Wheeler
and Mr. Charles S. Holt were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Recovery can be had under this mining statute only when
the defendant's act complained of is the proximate, cause of
the injury. Odin Coal Co. v. Denman, 185 Illinois, 418'.
This statute in derogation of the common law must be

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

strictly construed, and no recovery should be permitted except
for a violation of some duty clearly imposed by the act.
The duty of refraining from ordering miners into gaseous
portions of the mine is nowhere laid upon the mine manager.
On the contrary, § 18b would seem to clearly negative such a
duty. It was error to charge the jury that the question of
proximate cause turned upon whether or not there was gas
in the mine which was necessary to his death, and without
which his death would not have followed. The gas was merely
the instrumentality producing death, equally necessary to that
result whether Wilson's or decedent's act was the proximate
cause of the explosion.
The jury were still further confused upon this important
question by the further instruction. of the court that they
v being there or
should take into consideration whether th
Wilson's order was the greater cause of his death; a coniparison which had no proper place in the solution of the question.
spite of a caution, and upon his own
As Fulton's act was in'
volition with knowledge of the conditions producing danger,
he was engaged in. an unlawful act contrary to the express
prohibition of § 31 of the Mining Act, and such unlawful act
having contributed to his death, barred the right of recovery
herein.
A willful act, as used in the mining statute, means that the
person performing the act knows what he is doing and intends
to do what he is doing, arid is a free agent. An act consciously
performed is willfully performed under this statute as construed
by the Illinois Supreme Court. Odin Coal Co. v. Denman, 185
Illinois, 413; Carterville Coal Co. v. Abbott, 181 Illinois, 502.
As to construction of "willful," see Southern Ry. Co. v. Carroll,
138 Fed. Rep. 638; Heland v. City of Lowell, 3 Allen, 407.
There being evidence in the record from which the jury
might have found Fulton's act to have been willful and unlawful under the statute, it was the defendant's right to have
this question submittel to the jury inder the forit of instruction rquested in that (onnection.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

Defendant is entitled to an instruction to the effect that
no recovery could be had if Fulton's death resulted in part
from his own reckless disregard of consequences in view of his
surroundings and the conditions in the mine as disclosed by
the evidence, as such action on his part amounted to a willful
act which effectually neutralized the effect of any willful act
on defendant's part upon the same principle that ordinary contributory negligence on plaintiff's part is a defense to ordinary
negligence on defendant's part.
The evidence did not support the allegation that an accident
to the mine machinery had occurred by which the currents of
air were obstructed or stopped, as there were no air currents in
the mine at the time and no danger to the miners resulted from
the occurrence testified to. The Mining Act must be strictly
construed, being in derogation of the common law, and cannot be extended to cover the incident in question, the temporary loss of the monkey-wrench, by means of which the
fan was customarily started. Cole v. Mayne, 122 Fed. Rep.
843; Hamilton v. Jones, 125 Indiana, 178; Shaw v. Railroad
Co., 101 U. S. 565; Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 117-Fed.
Rep. 466.
Mr. Arthur J. Eddy, with whom Mr. P. C. Haley and
Mr. E. C. Wetten were on the brief, for defendant in error,
submitted:
The case at bar is not subject to the constitutional objection raised by plaintiff in error for the reason that the declaration contains counts based on certain sections of the act obviously not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
even under the theory of plaintiff in error. Chicago v. Lonergan, 196 Illinois, 518; Consolidated Coal Co. v. Scheiber, 167
Illinois, 539, 543; C. & A. R. R. Co. v. Anderson, 166 Illinois,
572, 575; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178
U. S. 239, 243, 244; Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276, 282;
Gibbs v. Crandall, 120 U. S. 105, 108; Atarin v. New York,'
115 U. S. 248, 257; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411,

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant ini Error.

424; Gold Washing & Water Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 203,
204.
Even if the court should be inclined to hold portions of the
mining law unconstitutional, it would not necessarily invalidate the entire act, and if any count is based on a section
held to be constitutional, it would be sufficient to sustain the
action. Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472,
490; Diamond Glue Co. v. U. S. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611,
617.
The Mining Act of Illinois is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. it has always been the policy of
that State to guard with great solicitude the persons and lives
of men employed in coal mining. The constitution of the
State imposes upon the legislature the duty of passing laws
to carry out this policy. Sec. 29, Art. 4, Const. of 1870;
Henrietta Coal Co. v. Martin, 221 Illinois, 460. See also: Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S.99; Coal Co. V. Seniger, 179 Illinois, 370;
Wells Coal Co. v. Smith, 65 Ohio St. 70; Huffeut on Agency,
286; Riverton Co. v. Shepherd, 207 Illinois, 395; Schmalstieg v.
Coal Co., 59 L. R. A. 707.
In construing the Mining Act the Supreme Court of Illinois
has sought to effectuate this purpose, and to protect the
operative coal miner and to provide for those dependent upon
him in case of his death through failure on the part of the
mine owner, and his representatives, to fulfill the duties required by the statute. C. W. & V. C. Co. v. The People, 181
Illinois, 270, 273; CartervilleCoal Co. v. Abbott, 181 Illinois, 495,
501; Deserant v. Cerillos C. R. R. Co., 178 U. S.409, 420; Odin
Coal Co. v. Denman, 185 Illinois, 413, 417.
In the last case cited the court declared the statute in question was not a penal statute.
The fact that the west roadway was full of gas was the
proximate cause of Fulton's death. None of the other. acts
and omissions complained of would have harmed him had
plaintiff in error fulfilled its primary duty in regard to freeing
the mine from gas and seeing that it was properly ventilated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Proximate cause has been defined by the Supreme Court of
Illinois in Pullman Co. v. Laack, 143 Illinois, 242, 260, 261.
Contributory negligence on the part of Fulton would not defeat the right of defendant in error to recover in this case.
Carterville Coal Co. v. Abbott, 181 Illinois, 495, 502; Henrietta
Coal Co. v. Martin, 221 Illinois, 460, 470; Riverton Coal Co. v.
Shepherd, 207 Illinois, 395, 399; O'Fallon Coal Co. v. Laquet,
198 Illinois, 125, 129; Spring Valley Coal Co. v. Rowatt, 196
Illinois, 156, 159; Pawnee Coal Co. v. Royce,'184 Illinois, 402,
415; Odin Coal Co. v. Denman, 185 Illinois, 413,, 419; W. A.
C. Co. v. Beaver, 192 Illinois, 333; Deserant v. C. C. R. R. Co.,
178 U. S.409, 420.
The jury were fudly instructed as to the effect of a willful
violation of the Mining Act by Fulton.
All the counts of the declaration were supported by evidence, and the issues raised w(ere properly left to the jury,
and if the (evidence supported one good count of the declaration, that would be sufficient to sustain the action.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

On January 27, 1901, Samuel Fulton, while working as a
trackman and mine laborer in a mine operated'by the Wilmington Star Mining Company in Grundy County, Illinois, was
killed by an explosion of mine gas. Minnie Fulton, the widow,
on behalf of herself and children, brought this action, against
the mining company in a court of the State of Illinois to re-

cover damages for the death of her husband. Because of
diversity of citizenship the case was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
The counts of the petitin upon which the* cause was-ultimately tried were eight in number, and in each was set out a
specified act of negligence averred to have been the proximate
cause of the accident and to have constituted willful failure
to perform specified statutory duties. In count 1 it was
alleged that the mining company failed, to maintain in the
inie currvnts of fresh air sufficient for the health and safety

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Fulton. Count 2 charged the failure to maintain cross cuts
in the mine at proper distances apart, to secure the best ventilation at the face of the working places. In count 3 the company- was charged with having failed to build all necessary
stoppings in a substantial manner to close cross cuts connecting the inlet and outlet air courses in the mine. In count 4
the negligence set up was the.failure to have the place in the
mine where Fulton was expected to pass and to work inspected
before Fulton was permitted to enter the mine, to ascertain
whether there were accumulations of gas therein. In count 5
it was charged that the mining company, with knowledge of
the existence of an accumulation of dangerous gases in the
mine and its unsafe condition when Fulton, in the course of
his employment, entered the mine on the morning of his death,
willfully failed and neglected to prevent Fulton from entering
the mine to work therein before the dangerous gases had been
removed and the conditions' in the mine rendered safe, said
Fulton not being then and there under the direction of the
mine manager. In count 6 it was charged that the mining
company, on the morning of the accident, had knowledge that
a valve attachment of a certain steam pipe used to conduct
steam generated for the purpose of running a ventilating fan
in the mine had become accidentally 'broken or lost, whereby
the air currents in the mine became obstructed and stopped,
and a large quantity of dangerous gas was permitted to accumulate in the mine at the place where Fulton was required
to pass and -to work. And it was further charged that, although having such knowledge, -the mining company willfully
failed and neglected to order the withdrawal of Fulton from
the mine and prohibit his return thereto until thorough ventilation had been established. In count 7 the negligence charged
was that the mining company permitted Fulton to enter the
mine befo1e the mine examiner had visited it and seen that the
air current was traveling in proper course and in proper quantity, and before the accumulation of dangerous gas, then in. the
mine, had been broken up or removed therefrom. In count 8
VOL. ccv-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

it wa§ charged that the mining company had knowledge that
accumulations of gas existed in the mine, yet' it willfully failed
and neglected to place a conspicuous mark at the place in the
mine where accumulations of gas existed as a notice to Fulton
and other employ~s to keep out, whereby Fulton failed to
receive, the statutory notice and warning of the existence of
accumulated gas, and did not know of the dangerous condition
of the mine when he proceeded to work at and near the place
in the mine where such dangerous accumulation of gas existed.
To these various counts the defendant plead the general
issue. The case was twice tried by a jury. On the first trial,
at the close of the evidence for the plaintiff, the jury was in-

structed to find for the defendant. This judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
133 Fed. Rep. 193. The second trial resulted in a verdict for
the pla7intiff and an entry of the judgment which is here assailed.
On the trial it was testified that the sinking of the shaft in
the mine where Fulton met his death was commenced in the
month of April or May, 1900. Fulton worked for several
months at the mine before the accident, at first assisting in
sinking the shaft. The mine is what is known as a long wall
mine, in which, it Was testified, cross cuts were not employed.
Cross cuts are used in what is known as a room and pillar
mine. In that class of mines parallel entries are run, and after
proceedin g a certain distance-usually sixty feet-a road is
cut across, connecting the paiallel entries to permit of a circulation of air. After going another sixty feet a new cross
cut is made and the openings of the prior cross cut are stopped
tip, thus carrying the circulation of air to the new cross cut. The
mine in question was thus inteided to be constructed. From
the bottom of the main or hoisting shaft towards the north,
south, east and west radiated four main headings or,roadways,
and it was contemplated to construct a circular road connecting the outer ends of these four main roads so as to cause a
com1plete circulation of air aroun(d the mine and through the

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

roadways. About three hundred feet to the eastward of the
main shaft was situated an air or escapement shaft. At the
time of the accident the roads radiating north, east and west
had been completed, but the circular roadway had only been
completed between the outer edges of the east and north roads.
Gas usually made its presence known in the west roadway
after going fifty or sixty feet from the bottom of the main
shaft. For some time before the accident men were employed
at or near the end of this road continuing the circular road
towards the northeast, and Fulton performed the work of
track laying. In consequence of the non-completion of the
circular roadway and the absence of natural ventilation in the
west roadway, a ventilating fan was used to force air through
air boxes to the places where the men were working in that
roadway, "so as to give them air and keep the gases out."
Whilst there is some confusion in the description of the situation and operation of the ventilating fan we take it that it was
as follows: The fan was situated at the bottom of the shaft
and was operated by a small engine in close proximity to the
fan. The steam to work this engine was carried down from
the boilers above, the steam pipe passing down the main shaft
to the fan engine at the bottom. To turn on the steam to this
engine and set it in motion there was a valve controlled by a
wheel. There was another valve by which the accumulation
of condensed water could be let off so as to enable the apparatus
to be reached by live steam. This valve was intended also to
be moved by a wheel, but that appliance had not been put on,
and, therefore, in order to' turn the valve the use of a wrench
was necessary. A wrench used for this purpose was kept near
the fan.
The mine manager stopped the fan about four o'clock on
Saturday afternoon. On the next day (Sunday) Fulton and
the mine manager descended the shaft together. The fan
had not started when they reached the bottom of the shaft.
The mine manager attempted to start the fan, but could not
find the wrench, and there was a delay of a minute or two

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

while he went up the shaft and secured a wrench. When the
fan was started the mine examiner and several other employs
who had descended the mine just ahead of Fulton and the
mine •manager were with the latter in the immediate vicinity
of the fan. At that time, as testified to by the mine manager,
he believed there was gas in the west roadway. Soon after
the starting of the fan Fulton and a helper proceeded along
the west roadway with pit lamps-naked lights-on their
caps, 'pushing a car loaded with track material. In a few
minutes the explosion occurred 'which caused the death of
Fulton and seriously injured the helper. There was contradictory evidence as to the instructions given by the mine
manager to Fulton at the time he-started into the west roadway. One version was that Fulton was told to wait awhile,
until an examination had been made by the mine manager
with a safety lamp. Another version imiplied from the evidence was that Fulton,, entirely of his own volition, proceeded
to the place where he was injured; and still another, hypothesis
was that Fulton was directed to proceed with .the work without
any caution. At the time of the explosion the mine. manager,
mine examiner and others were in the south roadway.
Ater the en try of judgment the cause was brought direct
to this court on the ground that a constitutional, right was
claimed .in the court below and dexried.
The errors assigned which have been argued at bar present
for consideration the following questions:
First, the constitutionality of the Illinois mining act of 1899
upon which this action was founded.
Second, the correctness of instructions to the jury on the
subject of 'the proximate cause of the accident in the event
Fulton went ifito the west roadway by direction of the mine
manager.
Third, the correctness of a refusal to instruct the jury to
return a verdict for the defendant if they found that "Fulton,
at the, time he was killed, was engaged in a willful act which
endangered. the lives or health of persons working in the mine

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

with him or the security of the mine or its machinery, and that
such willful act on his part contributed to his death."
Fourth; the correctness of a refusal to instruct the jury that
if the death of Fulton resulted in part from his reckless disregard of consequences in view of his own surroundings,. the plaintiff could not recover.
Fifth, the correctness of the overruling of motions to strike
out the second and third counts of the declaration, and of
the refusal to instruct the jury that no recovery could be had
on these counts, because no evidence had been introduced
to support the same.
Sixth, the correctness of the refusal to give the following
instructions:
"If you believe from the eviderice that the decedent Fulton,
just before the time of hig death, entered the mine to work
therein under the direction of the mine manager, Wilson, then
you are directed to find the defendant 'not guilty,' even
though you may further believe ffom the evidence that all
the conditions of the mine had not been made safe at such time,
as charged in thie declaration."
Seventh, the correctness of the overruling of a motion to
strike out the fifth count of the declaration and in refusing
to instruct the jury that no recovery could be had under said
.count, because no basis existed in the evidence for the asserted
liability.
Eighth, the correctness of the overruling of a motion to
strike out the sixth count of the declaration and a request for
an instruction that no evidence had been introduced of any
neglect as to the fan or machinery whereby the air currents of
the mine became obstructed and stopped.
Before considering these alleged errors, however, we must
dispose of a motion to dismiss. It is urged that as the direct
appeal to this court rests alone upon the assertion of the repugnacy of the Illinois mining act to the Constitution of the
United States, and as the claim of repugnancy is alone based
upon certain provisions of that act providing for. licensing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

mine managers and examiners, defining their duties and compdliig mine owners to employ only licensed managers and
examiners, the writ of error should be dismissed, because
there is ground broad enough to sustain the judgment \vholly
irrespective of the provisions of the Illinois act just referred to,
which are asserted to be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. This proposition is based upon the contention
that the first count of the declaration charges a violation of
dudy imposed by the statute directly upon the mine owner,
irrespective of the requirements of the statute as to licensed
employ6s. But issue is taken on behalf of the plaintiff in
error in respect to the correctness of this contention, and it is
insisted that the first couint is open to the same objections
which are urged against the others. We think the motion.
to dismiss is without merit, because there is color for the conte'ntion as to the unconstitutignality of the statute, as well
in respect to the first as to the other counts of the declaration.
We come, then, to consider the first assigned error, viz.,
the constitutionality of the Illinois mining act approved
April 18, 1899, in force July 1, 1899, entitled "An act to revise the laws in relation to coal mines and subjects relating
thereto, and providing for the health and safety of persons
employed therein." Chap. 93, Rev. Stat. of Illinois.
It is conceded that the statute in question has been authoritatively interpreted by the Supreme Court of Illinois as imposing upon mine owners responsibility for the defaults of
mine managers and mine examiners, employ6s who are required by the statute to be selected by the mine owners from
those holding licenses issued by the state mining board created
;by the -statute. And it is an alleged incompatibility between
such responsibility of the mine owner and the obligation
imposed upon the mine owner to employ only persons licensed
by the State, and the nature and character of the duties which
the statute imposes upon them, upon which is based the
asserted repugnancy of the statute to the Fourteenth Amendment.

WILMINGTON MINING CO.- v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 29 of article 4 of the Illinois constitution of 1870

is as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the general assembly to pass such
laws as may be necessary for the protection of operative
miners by providing for ventilation when the same may be
required and the construction of escapement shafts, with
such other appliances as may secure safety in all coal mines,
and to provide for the enforcement of said laws by such penalties and punishments as may be deemed proper."
. In carrying out this constitutional requirement the general
assembly of Illinois has from time to time legislated for the
protection of miners. The act of 1899, here assailed as repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, as said
by the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 133 Fed. Rep.
197, grew out of the desire "that every precaution should
be taken against the unusual hazards and dangers incident
to the inhabitancy of mines. It was intended, and intended
rightly, to protect with all known expedients every person
whose occupation required him to labor in these subterranean
rooms and roadways."
The act is lengthy, covering 47 pages of print, in the appendix
to one of the briefs. In substance it created a state mining
'board, authorized that body. to examine candidates for the
position of state inspector of mines and to certify the names
of the successful candidates to the governor, in whom was
vested the power of appointment. Moreover, the statute
fixed the qualifications of mine managers, hoisting engineers
and mine examiners; required candidates for such positions
to be 'examined by the state board and certificates to be
furnished to those found competent, and made it unlawful
in the operation of a coal mine to employ or suffet any person,
other than one possessing the proper cerificate, to serve as a
mine manager, hoisting engineer or mine examiner. Section 16
prescribed in detail the duties of mine managers and miners;
section 17 set forth the- duties of hoisting engineers; and by
section- 18 the duties of nine examiners are prescribed. In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion 6f the Court.

205 U. S.

terspersed, however, throughout the remainder of the act are
foundin sections relating to the subject of ventilation, powder
and blast, Place of refuge, etc., requirements to be observed
in effect supplementing the sections prescribing in detail the
duties to be performed by the employ~s above mentioned.
We think the omissi6ps of duty charged in the various counts
in the declaration are embraced in those in terms laid upon
the mine manager or mine examiner. Considering this act,
the Supreme Court of Illinois, in Henrietta Coal Company v.
Martin, 221 Illinois, 460; first commented upon the decisions
in Durkin v. Kingston Coal Co., 171 Pa. St. 193, and Williams v. Thacker Coal &- Coke Co., 44 W. Va. 599, which
cases dealt with statutes which, in-their general purpose,
were similar to the Illinois act. The Illinois court declined,
however, to hold, as was done in the cases referred to, that
where a statute directly imposed duties upon a mine manager
the negligence of such mine manager could not be imputed
to the owner, and indeed that the owner could not be made
.responsible for the act of such employ6 without causing
the
-statute to be unconstitutional. The Illinois court expressly
held that under the Illinois mining act a mine manager and
mine examiner were, vice-principals of the owner, and were
engaged in the performance of duties which the owner could
not delegate to others in such manner as to relieve himself
from responsibility. Observing that in a number of its former
decisions the Illinois court had assumed' the law to mean what
it expressly decided in the Henrietta case, it did mean, viz.,
that in respect to the duties devolved upon the mine manager
and mine examiner, those persons stood for the mine owner
and were vice-principals, performing those duties. The court
said:'
"The fact that the proprietor, if he employs men to act in
these capacities, is required to employ those who have obtained
the certificate from the state mining board is without significance. The purpose of that provision was, so far as possible,
to guard against the possibility of the proprietor employing

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

incompetent, intemperate, negligent or disreputable persons,
and not to enable the operator to shift to his employ6s his
responsibility for the management of the mine.
"The object of the mining act, as we gather from its various
provisions, is to protect, so far as legislative enactment may,
the health and persons of men employed in the mines of. the
.State .while they are in the mines. The principal measures
prescribed for this purpose require the exercise of greater
precaution and care on the part of the mine owner for the
safety of the miners than was required by the common law.
To hold that he may shift his liability to any person employed
by him as examiner or manager who holds the certificate
of the state mining board is to lessen his responsibilities and
defeat, in great part, the beneficent purposes of the act. To
hold him liable for a willful violation of the act, or a willful
failure to comply with its provisions on the part of his examiner
or manager, is to give force and effect to the statute according
to the intent of its makers to prolong the lives and promote
the safety and well-being of the miners."
Accepting this interpretation of the Illinois statute, and
in view of the ruling in Consolidated Coal Co. v. Seniger, 179
Illinois, 370, 374,'375, that it is not obligatory upon a mine
owner to select a particular individual or to retain one when
selected if found incompetent, we think the act is not re•pugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment in any particular.
In legal effect, duties are imposed upon the mine owner,
customarily performed for him by certain employ~s, duties
which substantially relate to the furnishing of a reasonably
safe place for the workmen. The subject was one peculiarly
within. the police power of the State, and the enactment of
the regulations counted upon we think was an appropriate
exercise -of such power. The use and enjoyment of mining.
property being subject to the reasonable exercise of the police
power of the State, certainly the rights', privileges and immunities of a mine owner as a citizen of the United States
were not invaded by the regulations in question, and the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1906.
.Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

imposition of liability upon the owner for the violation of such
regulations being an appropriate exercise of the police power,
was not wanting in due process. And even although the
liability imposed upon the mine owner to respond in damages
for the willful failure of the mine manager and mine examiner
to comply with the requirements of the statute. was not in
harmony, With the principles of the common law applicable
to the relation of master and servant it being competent
for the State to change and modify those principles in accord
with its conceptions of public policy, we cannot infer that
the selection of mine' owners as a class upon-which to impose
the liability in. question was purely arbitrary and without
reason. .And the views just expressed also adequately dispose of the contention that by the Statute the mine owner
was denied the equal protection of the laws.
The asserted error next to be considered relates to instrucions ,to the jury .on the subject of the proximate cause of the
accident in the event Fulton 'went into .tlte west roadway
by direction of .the mine manager. In the course of the
charge to the jury the court said:
S"If you believe from the evidence that Wilson, -the mine
manager, directed- Fulton -to go into the west roadway, and
that said. Fulton did s .in'obedience to- such order, and such
order was the proximate cause of Fulton's death, without
the giving -of which Fulton. would not have been killed, then
the jury is instructed that the plaintiff cannot recover in this
case, and the verdict should- be for the defendant. You
will note there that. it follows, if you believe that this instruction, if there was one, t6 Fulton Was the proximate cause
of his death, note that in passing upon that question you must
determine whether, first, if there wa- gasthere atthat time;
and whether, if theie was, that was or was not the proximate
. cause
of his deathA Npw by proximate cause is meant efficient cause.
In .ther words, if the gas had. not
been there,
would. his death have followed? . And was -gas being there
necessary to his'death? Or was,.the instrUttion, if there was

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 1J. S.

Opinion of the Court.

one, there willfully sending him there, the thing which caused
his 'death; which was the greater cause? That is a question
of fact for you to determine.
"I said it was for them to determine what was the proximate
cause if there was an order for this .deceased to go into the
mine, or'whether it was the gas being there. Let the instruction be what I stated now, the last time; that covers it."
It is contended that the effect of the definitions of proximate cause, made as above, was to hopelessly confuse the. jury.
While it must be conceded -that the instruction was greatly
wanting in clearness, yet we think no prejudicial error was
,committed. Looking at the criticized instructions in connection with the context of the charge, it is clear that it was
understood by all as importing that the mining company
was at fault for the existence of the accumulated gas resul'ting in the xplosion which caused the death of Fulton, since
to have allowed the gas to accumulate was a disregard- of
the positive duty towards Fulton imiiosed by the statute.
Now, conceding that the mine manager ordered Fulton into
the west roadway, and conceding, further, that' such order
of the manager was one of the causes of the accident, for which
no recovery could be had because not counted on the declaration, what follows? Simply this, that two concurring
causes contributed to the death of. Fulton-one the order of
the mine manager, forwhich recovery could not be had under
the declaration, and the other the neglect by the mine owner
to perform his statutory duty to prevent the accumulation
of the dangerous gases which led to the accident. But because one of the efficient causes, the order of the mine manager;
under the pleadings, did not give rise to a right of recovery,
it did not follow that therefore the owner was absolved from
responsibility for the cause of the accident for which he was
liable. Washington & G. R. Co. v. Hickey, 166 U. S. 521.
We next consider two contentions: a. That the trial court
erred in refusing to instritct the jury to return a verdict for

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

the defendant if they found that Fulton, at the time he was
killed, was engaged in a violation of the statute, which contributed to his death; that is, the doing of a willful act which
endangered his life and the lives or health of persons working
in the mine with him, and which jeopardized the security
of the mine or its machinery; and, b. That the court also erred
in refusing to instruct that if the death of Fulton resulted in
part from his reckless disregard of consequences in view of
his known surroundings, the plaintiff could not recover.
Leaving out of view the contention that the first requested
instruction was rightly refused because too general, and
bearing in mind that in. an action to recover damages under
the Illinois mining act a mine owner is deprived of the defense of contributory negligence, Carterville Coal Company v.
Abbott, 181 Illinois, 495, 502, 503, and. assuming that the refused instruction might properly have been given if the tendency of the proof justified it, we think, the instruction was
rightly refused, because we are of opinion that there was no
evidence tending to show tho doing by Fulton of a willful
act of the character contemplated by the statute or a reckless disregard by him of his personal safety. While the
evidence might have justified the inference that Fulton before entering the west roadway knew that it had not been
cleared of gas, yet it cannot be inferred that Fulton and his
helper suspected that gas had so permeated the roadway as to
render it perilous to life to go to the point where the explosion
occurred. The jury had been instructed that there could
be no recovery if the proof established the contention of the
mining company that Fulton entered the part of the mine
in which he was killed against or contrary to caution given
him by the mine manager, and if Fulton was permitted to
enter the west roadway without caution it is, impossible on
this record to infer that, the jury would have been justified
in finding that it was obvious that to enter the west roadway
was -so hazardous as to give shpport to the conclusion that
Fulton willfully and recklessly went to his destruction.

WJLMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON..
205 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

It is asserted that the court erred in refusing to give the
following instruction:
"If you believe from the evidence that the decedent Fulton,
just before the time of his death,, entered the mine to work
therein under the direction of the mine manager, Wilson, then
you are directed to find the- defendant 'not guilty,' even
though you may further believe from the evidence that all
the conditions of the mine had'not been made safe at such
time, as charged in the declaration."
The requested charge was based upon the last paragraph
.of that portion of section 18 (b) of the Illinois mining act,
dealing with the duties of mine examiners, reading as follows:
"To post danger notices. (b) When working places are
discovered in which accumulations of gas. or recent falls,
or any dangerous conditions exist, he shall place a conspicuousmark thereat as notice to all men to keep out, and at once
report his finding to the mine manager.
"No one shall be allowed to remain in any part of the mine
through which gas is being carried into the ventilating current, nor to enter the mine to -work therein, except under
the direction of the mine manager, until all- conditions shall
have been made safe."
We construe this provision of the statute as relating to steps
to be taken when a mine or a portion thereof is discovered
to be unsafe and as relating to the necessary work to be done
in the mine under the immediate supervision and direction
of the mine manager to remedy the unsafe condition. As,
however, there is no proof tending to show that Fulton in
entering and working in the mine came under any of these
conditions, we think the instruction was rightly refused.
The remaining assignments assert the commission of error
by the trial court in overruling motions to strike out the
second, third and sixth counts of the declaration and in refusing to instruct the jury tha-t no recovery could be had
under any of those counts, because no evidence had been introduced tending to establish the commission of the paTticular

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

acts of negligence charged in those counts., Such counts as
we have seen related to the failure to construct cross cuts
and stoppings in the mine and to an alleged defect resulting
from the absence of a wheel and the 'consequent necessity
of using a wrench for the purpose of opening a valve to allow
condensed steam to escape as a prerequisite to the movement
of the ventilating fan. We are constrained to the conclusion.
that prejudicial error was committed in these particulars.
We think it is extremely doubtful whether there was any
evidence in the record. even tending to establish that in a
long wall mine of the character of the one here in question
cross cuts and stoppings thereof were essential. But be this
as it may, certain is it that-there is no evidence whatever in
the record tendipg to support the claim that the absence of
cross cuts and stoppings in the mine in question was in any
wise the cause of the accumulations of gas or the retention
of the accumulated gas from the explosion of which Fulton
was killed. We are also of opinion that there was nothing
in the evidence which would have justified the inference
that the absence of the wheel from the valve, forming part
of the mechanism to operate, the ventilating fan, was the
proximate cause of.the presence of the gas in the west roadway where Fulton was killed. The uncontradicted testimony
showed that but a very brief interval, a minute or two, elapsed
before a wrench was obtained, and the distance to the point
where the gas had accumulated precludes the possibility of
saying' that the evidence tended to show that the absence of
the wheel could have been the proximate cause of the accidemfi. Under this condition of things we -find it impossible
to say that prejudicial error did not result. Maryland v.
Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, 493. And, of course, in a case like!
the one we are considering we. cannot maintain the verdict,.
as might be done in a criminal case upon a general verdict
of guilty upon all the counts of an indictment. Goode v.
United States, 159 U. S. 663. Nor does section 57 of the
Illinois Practice Act, chap. 110, Rev. Stat. Illinois, support

WILMINGTON MINING CO. v. FULTON.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the contention that errors of the character of those we have
just been considering must be treated as not prejudicial.
The section relied upon, is as follows:
"When an entire verdict is given on several counts it will
not be set aside or reversed because of any defective count,
if one or more of the counts be sufficient to sustain the verdict."
This section has been held not to relate to counts which arevitally defective, but as only providing that where a declaration consists of several counts, and sonic of the counts
contain defects not vital and yet subject to be assailed by
demurrer, a party cannot wait until after the close of the
evidence at the trial and, a fortiori, after verdict, and then
for the first time question the sufficiency of the counts. City
of Chicago v. Lonergan, 196 Illinois, 518; Consolidated Coal
Co. v. Scheiber, 167 Illinois, 539. This statute of course lends
no support to the contention here made that where a jury is
wrongfully permitted over the objection of the opposing party
to take into consideration in reaching a verdict counts of a
declaration which have not been supported by any evidence,
and where it is impossible from the record to say upon which
of the counts of the declaration the verdict was based, that
the judgment entered under.'such circumstances can be sustained upon the theory that substantial riglits of the objecting,
party had not been invaded.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, ard
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

