OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

205 U. S.

whether the defendant should be charged with a greater
proportion of the delays than set forth in the finding, the court
could not decide on the evidence produced.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be reversed and
the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.
Rerersed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. SLAGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME C()TRT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON..
No. 152.

Argued January 11. 1907.-Devided March 11, 1907.

A judgment on demurrer is as conclusive as one rendered upon proof.
The question as to the-effect of a judgment as res judicata when pleaded
in bar of another action is its legal identity with the judgment sought in
the second action, and, as a general rule, its extent as a bar is not only
what was pleaded or litigated, but what could have been pleaded or
litigated.
Where a plaintiff could have pleaded rights to property in addition to those
pleaded, he and his grantees are bound by that election, and after an
adverse judgment cannot again assert title to the same property against
the same parties under a different source of title.
A state statute of limitations does not commence to run against a government patentee until after the patent has been issued to him.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. James B. Kerr was
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error in this case and in No. 153
argued simultaneously herewith:'
The Spokane, company in 1886 filed proof of its incorporation as required by the act, and in 1886 and 1887 built its
railway while the lands were public lands of the United States
free from any claim of record. While the defendant in error
had lived on the lands since 1883, he had never entered or
attempted to enter them as a homestead, though they were
surveyed and were subject to entry. Hewitt v. Schultz,
I See p. 134, post.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SLAGHT.
205 U. S.

123

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

180 U. S. 139. The Supreme Court of Washington held that
the act of 1875 did not operate upon this land (it being subject
to a possessory claim) until, that claimi was condemned or
acquired; but plaintiff in error contends that the act attached
as a grant in prcesenti, conveying a good title when the road
was completed, in so far as the United States had a title to
convey and subject to the possessory right. This is the necessary result of the decisions in Noble v. Union River Logging
Co., 147 U. S. 165, 172, and Jamestown and Northern R. R.
Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S.125. See Washington and Idaho Railroad v. Osborn, 160 U. S. 103, and Spokane Falls and Northern
Railway Co. v. Ziegler, 167 U. S. 65.
Public lands subject to possessory claims are subject to
the disposal of Congress. Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Colburn, 164 U. S. 383, and cases cited. Simmons v. Ogle,
105 U. S.271; Water and Mining.Co. v. Bugbey, 96 U. S.165;
Lansdale v. Daniels, 100 U. S. 113.
The issuing of a patent to Slaght without reservation or
exception of the right of way does not operate to free the
land from that right.
One occupying public land may protect his possessory right
before patent. He would be protected by injunction or by
any other proper remedy against a railway claiming under the
act of 1875. Washington & Idaho R. R. Co. v. Osborn, 160
U. S. 103; Spokane Falls & Northern Ry. Co. v. Ziegler, 167
U. S. 65; Brown v. Hartshorn, 12 Oklahoma, 121; Woodruff v.
Wallace, 3 Oklahoma, 355, and cases cited; French v. Cresswell, 13 Oregon, 418; Burlington &c. R. R. Co. v. Johnson,
38 Kansas, 142; Wendel v. Spokane County, 27 Washington,
121. See also Pierce v. Frace, 2 Washington, 81.
Under Wiggins Ferry Co. v. Ohio & Mississippi Ry. Co.,
142 U. S. 396, 410, the former litigation terminating in Powers
v. Slaght is not res adjudicata. See also Gilman v. Rives,
10 Pet. 298; Freeman on Judgments (4th ed.), sec. 267; Van
Fleet, Former Adjudication, § 306, et seq.
Where the judgment in the former action is upon demurrer

124

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

205 U. S.

to a complaint, the estoppel extends only to the very point
raised in the pleading and does not bar another action based
upon other facts. The judgment in the other action was upon
demurrer to the complaint and its effect was only to decide
against the title specially set forth in that pleading. In this
action the right asserted is a perpetual easement or way by
virtue of the act of 1875 through the lands involved in the
former suit. Not only was this right not pleaded in the former complaint, but under it the title now asserted could not
have been proved.
Mr. U. L. Ettinger, Mr. Thomas Neill and Mr. W.
E. McCroskey for defendant in' error in No. 152, submitted:
The act of March 3, '1875 does not grant to a railroad company a right of way over lands occupied by a settler, without
condemnation proceedings. Railroad Co. v. Osborn, 160
U. S. 103; Railroad Co. v. Ziegler, 167 U' S. 69.
The act was in the nature of an offer to any railroad company, to take effect when accepted. Railroad Co. v. Sture,
32 Minnesota, 95; Denver & R. G. Ry. v. Wilson, 62 Pac.
Rep. 843.
The title under a patent relates back to the date of settlement. Sec. 4, Act of 1880, Supp. Rev. Stat. U. S. 282; Maddox v. Burham, 156 U. S. 544; Nelson v. N. P. R. Co., 188
U. S. 108.,
As against a subsequent claimant on public lands, the first
in time is the first in right. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330;
Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537.
A settler on public lands, before he has made a filing thereon,
is protected by the act of Congress of 1880. Nelson v. N. P.
R. R. Co., 188 U. S. 108.
The court will take judicial notice of the rules and orders
of the Land Department. Caha v. United States, 152 U. S.
211; Knight v. United States Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161.
The order of withdrawal of this land, the instructions to

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SLAGHT.
205 U. S.

125

Opinion of tile
Court.

local land 6fficers not to accept filings thereon and the order
restoring the land to settlement are found in the land decisions.
2 Land Dec. 517; 6 Land Dec. 85 and 131.
The judgment in a former action in which the title to this
land was determined is res adjudicata of this case. 24 Ency.
of Law (2d ed:), 781 and cases cited; New Orleans v. Citizens
Bank, 167 U. S. 396; State Exp. v. Tacoma, 13 Washington,
141;. Insensle v. Auttin, 15 Washington, 352.
A judgment on a demurrer to the merits is as much an
adjudication as if rendered after trial of facts: Ally v. Nott,
111 UT. S. 472; Gould v. Railroad Co., 91 U. S.526; Vail Fleet.
Former Adj. §'306; 24 Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 798.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought by defendant in error
against plaintiffs in error in the Superior Court in and for the
county of Whitman, State of Washington, for land situate in
the town of Palouse.
The trial court adjudged defendant in error the owner in
fee simple of the .land sued for, and that the plaintiffs in error
were in the possession and occupation of the portions thereof
described in their answers against'the will and consent of the
plaintiff (defendant in error), and were occupying and in
possession thereof without right, exceI)t that the Northern
Pacific Itailway Comp3any, as a public carrier, had a right to
hold the possession of a strip of land -twenty-five feet wide,
"being twelve and one-half feet on each side of the center
line between the rails of its main track over and across said
land, and also a fract 100 feet square.'.' This tract was described. Defendant in error was adjudged entitled to recover
"all the rest of the land described in the'amended complaint."
And that a writ issue to put him in possession thereof, but
not until ninety days from- the date of the judgment, and if
an appeal should be taken and proceedings stayed then not
until ninety days from the time the remittitur from the Su-

'OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

preme Court affirming the judgment should be filed; and if,
in the meantime, the rhilway company should commence
proceedings in the proper court to condemn the land claimed
by it and described in its answer, for railroad purposes, then
said writ should not be issued as to suchland it might seek
to condemn, unless the company should afterwards dismiss
such proceedings or fail to prosecute the same to final judgment and pay the award that might be made therein. The
Supreme Court affirmed the judgment. 39 Washington,
576.
The facts, as far as necessary to be stated, are 'that after
proceedings in the land office,'to which the railway company
was a party, a homestead patent was issued to defendant in
error April 20, 1897, to lots 10, 11, 14 and 15 of section 1,
township 16 N., range 45 E.' Willamette meridian. Defendant in error established his residence upon the 'land in 1883.
In 1886 and the first half of 1887, the Spokane and Palouse
Railway Company constructed and completed, at great
expense, a railroad over lots 10 and 11, conforming to the
survey previously made and staked out, and from and after
its completion it was operated daily and continuously in the
carrying of freight, passengers and mail. The right of way
claimed was one hundred feet wide on either side of the main
line of railroad. It would be possible for plaintiff in error,
who is the successor of the Spokane company, to carry freight,
passengers and mail over a right of way not exceeding twentyfive feet in width, and a space of one hundred feet square
would permit of the erection of a depot at the town of Palouse.
But great inconvenience would result to the citizens of that
town and vicinity and the railway company. For the convenient, prompt and expeditious handling of freight and the
erection of elevators for storing grain: and wheat a right of
way of two hundred feet is necessary. At the time the railroad was surveyed and constructed defendant in error resided upon said lands and knew of its construction and the
expenditure of large sums of money therefor. About the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SLAGHT.
205 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

time of the survey he published a notice in the Palouse News,
a newspaper published in the vicinity of 'the land, forbidding
all persons from trespassing thereon. This is the only objection he made. In the month of August, 1887, the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, claiming to be the owner of lots 10
and 11, conveyed the same to William S. Powers, and he,
on the fourteenth of September, of the same year, conveyed
to the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company a right of way
two hundred feet wide over lots 10 and 11, being the same
then claimed by that company and now claimed by plaintiff
in error, the Northern Pacific Railway Company. On the
twelfth of May, 1897, the Spokane and Palouse Railway
Company, Powers and others, *as successors in interest
of Powers under the above deed of conveyance -from the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, brought a suit against
the defendant in error, which ,will hereafter be referred to
and described. The complaint was amended. The date of its
filing as amended does not appear. It was sworn to February 19, 1898. A demurrer to the amended complaint
was sustained and, the plaintiffs declining to plead further,
a judgment was entered June 24, 1898, dismissing the suit.
The judgment was affirmed successively by the Supreme
CouTt of the State and by this court. No suit of any kind
was commenced by defendant in error to enjoin the construction of or the maintenance of said railroad over said
right of .way, excelt the suit at bar, which was brought shortly
after the decision of this court above mentioned. The summons was served on the Northern Pacific Railway Company
on the ninth of October, 1901, and the complaint was filed
on the fourth of June, 1902.
The Spokane and Palouse Railway Company conveyed
the right of way in controversy and all of its property on the
twenty-first of February, 1899, to the Northern Pacific Railway Company, which has ever since maintained tnd operated
said road from Spokane, Washington, to Lewiston, Idaho,
and intervening points.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

The Northern Pacific Railway Company (we shall follow
counsel's example and treat the Northern Pacific Railway
Company as the sole plaintiff in error, the individuals named
being its lessees) assigns as error in its brief the ruling of the
Supreme Court of the State, that the company "had no right
of way under the act of Congress of March 3, 1875," 18 Stat.
482, and the ruling, "that the'statute of limitations of Washington could not, because the laws of the United States forbade, commence to run until patent issued." The limitation
of the statute is ten years.
The defendant in error opposes as a bar to these defenses
the judgment in his favor in the suit brought by the Spokane
and Palouse Railway Company and William S. Powers and
others, which judgment was affirmed by this court. 180 U. S.
173. Plaintiff in error is the successor in interest of the
Spokane and Palouse Railway Company, and is estopped by
the judgment if that company would be.
The object of the suit in which the judgment was rendered,
as appears from the findings of fact of the trial court, was to
have Slaght, defendant in error, "declared a trustee, and as
holding the land in trust" for the plaintiffs in the suit, and to
require a conveyance from him to them,, and to enjoin him from
bringing any action to oust them. The amended complaint,
which is made part of the findings, averred that the patent to
Slaght was "issued under a misconstruction and misinterpretation of the law," and that at the date of the issuance of said
patent the land was not, nor was it at the time he applied
to enter the same, public land, subject to settlemnent or entry
under the land laws of the United States, other than the act
of Congress approved July 2, 1864, granting land to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company. The facts and circumstances from which these conclusions were deduced and
justified were set forth with great particularity. It was
averred that the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company
and other plaintiffs asserted and claimed title to certain
portions of the land under and by virtue of certain instruments

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SLAGHT.
205 U. S,

129

Opinion of the Court.

duly made and delivered by Powers and his grantees. And
it was also averred that the questions involved were of common
and general interest to many persons whom it was impracticable to make parties, and that such persons and the plaintiffs were the owners in fee simple and had an indefeasible
title, and were in possession of lots 10, 11, 14 and 15 of section 1,
township 16 N., range 45 E., Willamette meridian, and that
Slaght claimed an interest or estate therein adverse to the
plaintiffs, which claim was without any right whatever and
that he had no estate, right, title or interest whatever in the
land or any part thereof. And it was averred that he threatened to commence suits in ejectment, and, without suit,
forcibly to dispossess and eject plaintiffs from said premises
or a portion thereof unless enjoined. An injunction was
prayed restraining him from selling the land and doing the
acts described; that he be required to set forth the nature
of his claim, and that his claim be determined; that he be
adjudged to have no title or interest whatever to the land
or any part thereof, and be enjoined from ever asserting any;
"that the title of plaintiffs be decreed'good, valid, indefeasible
fee simple, and free from all claims of said defendant;" that
the patent be declared to haveissued under a misconstruction
of law, that he be held to be a trustee for the plaintiff, Wil.liam L. Powers, and his grantees, both direct and through
mesne conveyance, and that Siaght be required to convey
the land to Powers and his grantees. Slaght demurred to
the complaint and the demurrer was sustained. The plaintiffs electing to stand on the demurrer, judgment was entered
dismissing the suit. This judgment was affirmed, by the
Supreme Court of the State and by this court, as we have seen.
,The complaint in the suit did not show what land or interest Powers deeded to the. Spokane and Palouse Railway
Company but it appears from the findings that the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company conveyed lots .10 and 11 to Powers
in August, 1887, and in September, 1887, Powers conveyed
to the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company the tract of
VOL. CCV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

land then used as its right of way, and that it is the same
tract which was occupied by the plaintiff in error as its right
of way. The basis of the title alleged in the suit was the grant
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by act of Congress
of July 2, 1864. Rights under the act of Congress of March 3,
1873, or under the statute of limitations of the State, were
niot set up. The Spokane and Palouse Railway Company,
nuwuver, alleged that it and the, other plaintiffs in the suit
had a title in fee simple, and prayed in the most comprehensive
and detailed way to have it quieted against the claims of the
defendant in error, which, it was alleged, were threatened to
be asserted by suits arid by force without suit. The question
now to be decided is, is the decree in the suit res adjudicala?
Against this effect of the decree the railway company urges
that it was rendered on demurrer and "the estoppel extends
only to the very point raised in the pleading, and does not bar
another action based upon other facts." The effect of the
decree, it is insisted, was only to decide against the title specially set forth in the pleading. And further, "in this action
[that at bar] the right asserted is a perpetual easement or
way by virtue of the act of 1875 through the lands involved
in the former suit. Not only was this right not pleaded in
the former complaint, but under it the title now asserted
could not have been proved." To sustain these conclusions
the following authorities are cited: Wiggins Ferry Company v.
Ohio & Mississippi Company, 142 U. S. 396, t10; Gilman v.
Reives, 10 Pet. 297; Freeman on Judgments (Ith ed.), § 267;
Van Fleet, Form. Ad., §306, and following.
The citations are not apposite to the present controversy.
It is well established that a judgment on demurrer isas conclusive as one rendered, upon proof. Gould v. Evansville &
Crawfordsville R. R. Co., 91 U. S.526; Bissel v. Spring Valley
Township, 124 U. S. 228; Freeman on Judgments, section 267.,
The question as to such judgment when pleaded in bar of
another action will be necessarily its legal identity with such
action. The general rule of the extent of the bar is not only

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY0 v . SLAGHT.
205 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

what was pleaded or litigated, but what could have been
pleaded or litigated. .There is a difference between the effect
of a judgment as a bar against the prosecution of a second
action for the same claim or demand, and its effect as an
estoppel in another action between the same parties upon
another claim or demand, Cromwell v. County of Sac,, 94
U. -S. 351; Bissel v. Spring Valley Township, 124 U. S. 225;
New Orleans v. Citizens Bank, 167 U. S. 371; Southern 'Pacific
Railroad Company v. United States, 168 U. S. 1; Gunter v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S. 273; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort,
191 U. S. 499, and a distinction between personal actions and
real actions is useful to observe. Herman on Estoppel, § 92..
It is there said: "Although there may. be several different
claims for the same thing, there can be only one right of
property in it; therefore, when a'cause of action has resulted
in favor of the defendant, when the plaintiff claims, the property of a certain thing there can be no other action maintained against the same party for the same property, for that
would be to renew the question already decided, for the single
question in litigation was whether the property belonged to
the plaintiff or not; and it is of no importance that the plaintiff
failed to. set up all his rights upon which his cause of action
could have been maintained; it is sufficient that it might
have been litigated."
In United States v. California &. Oregon Land Company,
192 U. S. 355, this principle was .applied. In that case a decree rendered upon a bill in equity brought under an act of
Congress to' have patents for land declared void, as forfeited,
and to establish the title of the United States to the land,
was held to be a bar to a subsequent bill brought against- the
same defendants to recover the same land, on the ground
that it was excepted from the original grant as an indian
reservation. And, speaking of the two suits, we said, by
Mr. Justice Holmes: "The best that can be said, apart from
the act just quoted, to distinguish the two suits, is that now
the United States puts forward a new ground for its prayer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Formerly it sought to avoid the patents by way of forfeiture.
Now it seeks the same conclusion by a different means; that
is to say, by evidence that the lands originally were excepted
from the grant. But in this, as in the former suit, it seeks to
establish its own title to the fee." And further: "But the
whole tendency of our decisions is to require a plaintiff to try
his whole cause of action and his whole case at one time. He
cannot even split up his claim, Fetter v. Beale, 1 Salk. 11;
Trask v. Hartford & New Haven Railroad, 2 Allen, 331; Freeman, Judgments, 4th ed., §§ 238, 241; and, a fortiori, he cannot
divide the grounds of recovery."
This doctrine has illustrations in suits to quiet title. It
was decided in Lessees of Parrishv. Ferriset al., 2 Black, 606,
that the judgment in an action to quiet title is conclusive of
the title, whether aderse to the plaintiff in the action or to
the defendant. In other words, it determines the merits of the
plaintiff's title as well as that of the defendant, In Indiana,
Bloomington & Western. Railway Co. v. Allen, 113 Indiana,
581, it was held that the railway company could not. assert
against a judgment decreeing title in the plaintiff ir'such an
action the right to construct and maintain a railway over it.
And in Davis v. Sennen, 125 I-ndiana, 185, it was decided that
every possible interest of a defendant is cut off. And-necessarily
every possible interest of the plaintiff is cut off if the judgment
is infavor of the defendant. 'Parrish.v. Ferris,supra.
The Spokane and Palouse Railway Company alleged a
title in'
fee simple, and"the truth of the allegation could be
determined as well by demurrer as by proof, and the same
legal consequences followed from it. Clearwater v. Meredith,
1 Wall.,25; Goodrich v. The City, 5 Wall. 566; Aurora City v.
West, 7 Wall. 82; Black on Judgments, § 707; Freeman on
Judgments 267, and cases hereinbefore cited. The record
shows that the demurrqr was not upon merely formal or
technical defects, but went to the merits. - It was directed
to the second amended complaint of the plaintiffs. They
.elected to stand on that complaint, and declined to plead

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SLAGHT.
205 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

further. They asserted its sufficiency by an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State and again to this court, and met
defeat in both, as we have seen. Whether the Spokane and
Palouse Railway Company could have pleaded, in addition to
the right it alleged under the deed from Powers,- the rights
that plaintiff in error contends it acquired under the act of
Congress of 1873, or the statute of limitations of the State,
we need not determine. See § 97, 120 et seq.; Story's Equity
Pleading; Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al., 16 How. 288. It
elected between-those rights and rights under the Powers deed,
and we think its grantee is now bound by that election. The
interest that the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company
derived from Powers was of the right of way, which is now
claimed by plaintiff in ertor. In other words, plaintiff in error,
as successor of the Spokane and Palouse Railway Company,
again asserts title to the Very property-that was the subject
of the other suit, the source of title, only, being different.
If this may be done, how often may it be repeated? If defeated upon the new title, may plaintiff in.error assert still
another one, either in its predecessor or in itself, and repeat
as often as it may vary its claim? The principle of res ajudicata
and the cases enforcing and illustrating that principle declare
otherwise.
. In the discussion thus far we have assumed, as contended
by plaintiff in error, that the statute of limitations could
commence to run before the patent issued, and we have also
assumed that rights under it were complete in the Spokane
and Palouse Railway Company at the time of its suit, against
Slaght. Lest the latter assumption be questioned it may be
well to determine whether the other assumption be true.
The Supreme Court decided against it on the authority of
Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, pnd Redfield v. Parks, 132
U. S. 239, that is, dedided that the statute did not commence
to run until the patent issued to Slaght, and that, therefore,
this action was not barred. The, ruling, we think, was right.
The act of Congress of 1875 and the statute of limitations are

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

134

Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

independent defenses, and, being so, the latter comes within
the rule announced. Of course, if the act of Congress of 1875
was a grant of the right of way in pr(esenti, "conveying a good
title when the road was completed," as contended, it needs
no aid from the statute of limitations and would be an effectual defense if it were not barred by the judgment' which
we have considered.
Judgment affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. SLAGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 153.

Submitted January 11, 1907.-Decided March 11, 1907.

Decided on authority of Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Slaght,ante, p. 122.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. James B. Kerr was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.'
No counsel appeared for -defendant in error.'
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

THrs case was submitted with No. 152, the questions being
identical. On the authority of that case the
Judgment is affirmed.
'MR. JUSTICE BREWER

took no part in the decision of these

cases.
1 See abstracts of arguments in Northern Pacific Railway Company v
Slaght, ante, p. 122, argued simultaneously herewith.

