LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
205 U. S.

Syllabus.

breakwater, and we do not mean to intimate that there was no
evidence from which the jury would have been warranted in
finding that the Government was guilty of negligence in' the
way in which it left those lights. But no omission or negligence on the part of the Government avoids the fact that
there was testimony from which the jury was justified in finding the captain guilty of negligence, and for that negligence
the steamship company was responsible. The jury might
have thought that if he had kept himself properly informed
in reference to the condition of that as of other important
harbors he 'would not have been misled by the condition of the.
lights. At any rate the verdict of the jury was against the
contention of contributory negligence on the part. of the
Government, and the jury was the tribunal to determine
this, as well as the question of negligence. We could not set
aside the verdict of the jury, approved as it was by the trial
court and the Court of Appeals, without ourselves exercising
the function of triers of fact, when under the law such questions are committed to the determination of a jury.The judgment is
Affirmed.

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 236.

Submitted March 8, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

In a contest over a homestead entry, whether there was a sale and whether
the thing sold was or was not the tract in question, are matters of fact to
be determined by the testimony, and the findings of the Land Department
in those respects are conclusive in the courts.
While a homesteader cannot make a Valid and 6nforceable 66ntract to sell the
land he is seeking to enter, he is not bound to perfect his application but
may abandon or relinquish his rights in the land, and if he in fact makes
a sale he is no longer interested in the land and the Government can treat
the sale as a relinquishment and patent the land to other applicants.
83 Paq. Rep. 882, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

205 U. S.

ON December 3, 1900,, Edward H. Love commenced this
suit in the District Court of Missoula County, Montana, to
,have' Annie Flahive, the holder of the legal title to a specified
tract in that county, adjudged to hold it in trust for him.
A demurrer to the complaint was sustained by the District
Court and, no amendment being asked, judgment was entered
for the defendants. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State (83 Pac. Rep. 882), from which court
the case was brought here on writ of error..
The facts, as stated in the complaint and attached exhibits, are that plaintiff, with the purpose of entering the
land as a homestead and being qualified therefor, in May, 1882,
settled upon, occupied and fenced the entire tract, with the
exception of the north twenty acres thereof. In addition to
a controversy in the Land Department with the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, which claimed the land under its
grant, but whose claim was finally rejected. he had a contest in
the Land Department with Michael Fiahive, who was also
seeking to .enter the land, which, after several hearings before
the local land officers, with appeals to and decisions by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary
of the Interior, resulted in .a final decision against him and
an award of the land to the defendant Annie Flahive, the
widow of Michael Flahive, who had died pending the proceedings. In pursuance of that award a patent was issued
to her in December, 1899.
Mr! Thomas C. Bach, with whoni Mr. Charles Edmund Pew
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error; submitted:
The Land Department has authority to make such findings of fact as are necessary in te determination of the one
question which was committed to it by the acts of Congress,
namely, who had made the first settlement upon the land
and otherwise 'complied with the law so as to be entitled to
patent. But" its: authority ends there. Being created for
the purpose of performing certain enumerated duties, and its

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

judicial powers being defined by statute, its jurisdiction is
limited to the power expressly granted. Sec. 2273, Rev. Stat.
The Land Department found repeatedly that Love made
the first settlement and conformed to the other provisions of
the law, which finding has never been reversed. Right there
its jurisdiction ended, and the patent should have been issued
to Love upon that finding.
The authority to pass upon equities claimed 'to exist between parties is vested in the.courts, and no attempted usurpation of that authority by. a special tribunal can in any degree
affect the jurisdiction of the courts in such c6ntroversies.
Garland v. Wynne, 20 How. 6.
Any unexecuted sale of pre6mption rights, whether they
were those -of Love or Finley, was, under the provisions of
ยง 2263, Rev. Stat., absolutely as though it had never been
conceived. Where particular contracts are inhibited by statute, and if attempted are in positive terms declared "utterly
null and void," such contracts will not be enforced. Gibbs v.
Cons. Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396; and see Miller v. Ammon, 145
U. S. 421; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Hantman v. Butterfield Co., 199 U.. S. 337.
Mr. S. M. Stockslager and Mr. George C. Heard,. with whom
Mr. Elmer E. Hershey was on the brief, for defendant in error,
submitted:
To entitle a party. to relief in equity against a patent of
the Government, he must show a better right to the land
than the patentee. It is not sufficient to show. that the patentee ought not to have received the patent. It must appear
that, by the law properly administered, the title should have
been awarded to the claimant. Sparks v. Pierce, 115 U. S.
408; Bohall v. Dilla, 114 U. S. 47; Lee v. Johnson, .116 U. S. 48.
The Land Department is a tribunal appointed by Congress
to decide certain questions relating to the public lands; and
its decision upon matters of fact cognizable by it, in the absence of fraud or imposition, is conclusive everywhere else.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court..

205 U. S.

Lee v. Johnsen, 116 U. S.48; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;,
Wqrren.v. Van Brunt, 19 Wall. 646; Shepely v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Marquez v. Frisbie,
101 U. S. 473;, Vance v. Burbank, 101- U. S. 514;.Quinby. v.
Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; St. Louis Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 636; Steel v. St. Louis Smelting Co., 106 U. S.447; Baldwin v. Starks, 107 U. S. 463;, United States v. Minor, 114
U. S. 233.
The Secretary has jurisdiction at any- time prior' to the
issuing. of patent to cancel any entry. He also has jurisdiction to order a hearing for the purpose of obtaining the facts
to enable him to determine, in a contest case, whether either
claimant, and if either, which one, has the better right, and in
doing so he may overrule any and all other decisions thereto.fore made. Michigan Land and Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S.
589; Beley v. Napthaly, 169 U. S.353; Knight v. U. S. Land
Association, 142 U. S. 161; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473;
Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476; Harkraderv. Goldstein, 31L.D.
-87
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,. after making the foregoing state-menk delivered -the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff rests his case on the contention that in the con*clusions of the Secretary of the Interior there was error in
matter of law; inasmuch as it is well settled that in the absenee of, fraud or imposition the findings of the Land Department on matters of fact are conclusive upon
the courts. Johnson v.. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Lee v. Johnson, .116 U. S. 48;
.Lake, Superior &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S. 354, 375;
Burfening v. Chicago, St. Paul &c. Railway, .163 U. S. 321,
323;. Gionzales v.: French, -464 U. S..338; Johnson y. Drew,
171 U. S.93, 99.
He 'also invokes .the. authority of Noble v.. Union River
Logging Railroad, 147 U. S."165, 176, to the effect that when
by the action of the Department a right of property has become vested, in an applicant it can be taken away only by a

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding directly for that purpose, and contends that his
right to the land was determined by certain findings of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office on July 26, 1892,
affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior on January 12, 1894:
It is doubtless true that when once a patent has issued the
jurisdiction of the Land Department over the land ceases,
and any right of the Government or third parties must' be
asserted by proceedings in the courts. United States v. Stone,
2 Wall. 525, 535; Michigan Land & Lumber Company v. Rust,
168 U. S. 589, 593, and cases cited. It may also be conceded
that 'aright of property .may become vested by a decision of
the Land Department, of which the applicant cannot be deprived except upon proceedings directly therefor and of Which
he has notice. Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456; Orchard v.
Alexander, 157.U. S. 372, 383; Parsons v. Venzke, 164 U. S.
89; Michigan Land & Lumber Company v. Rust, supra. Without. undertaking to indicate the limits to which this can be
carried, it is enough to say that the proceedings in this case,
both in the local land offices and by appeals and reviews in
the General Land Office, were within the settled rules of
procedure established by the Department in respect to -such
matters. Generally speaking, the Land Department has
jurisdiction until the. legal title has passed, and the several
steps in this controversy were before the issue of the patent,
while the jurisdiction, of the Land Departpent continued,
and with both parties present and participating. The question of title was in process of administration and until the
patent issued nothing was settled so as to estop further inquiry.
Knight v. U. S. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161; Michigan
Land & Lumber Company v. Rust, supra. So, although it
be conceded that the findings of the Secretary of the Interior,
in 1894, were to the effect that the plaintiff had a right to
enter the land, that decision was not final, and it was*Within
the jurisdiction of the Land Department to institute further
inquiry, and upon it to* finally award the land to the party
held to have the 'better right.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

This brings us to the pivotal fact. It appears from the
complaint and exhibits that during the time that these proceedings were pending in the Land Department, Love made
a sale to James Rundall of 'the tract in controversy, or some
other tract, or some logs, and that Rundall thereafter made
a sale of the same property to Flahive. What was the thing
sold is not positively shown by the testimony. In the final
decision of the case the Secretary of the Interior, after giving
a synopsis of the testimony, which he says is largely incomplete
and irrelevant and not entirely satisfactory upon the question,
says:
"The witnesses Vanderpool and Lynch testify that Love
had a place for sale which included the tract in controversy;
Rundall that he purchased the tract in controversy.from Love.
The latter denies any sale of the land, but states that he sold
some logs for W. H. Finley. It is evident from Love's statement of the transaction that, conceding the sale to be only
of logs, he was aware 'that the land upon which the
logs were
situated .would be claimed by the purchaser of the logs, not by
virtue of the sale of the logs, but because it appears that he
sold the logs for the reason that the claim of W. H. Finley,.
upon which the logs were situated, was about to be taken
by, Rundall.
*

'
*

*

*

*

*

,

,

"Itappears that a clear 'preponderance of the testimony
shows that the logs were situated upon the land in controversy;
and from Love's evidence it is shown that he at the time of
this sale laid no jclaim to the land upon which this unfinished
cabin was erected.
,

,.*

*

*

*

*

*

"It thus appears that from a preponderance of the testimony
it is shown that this tract of land was not claimed by Love
at the'date of the sale'of this land or of these logs; for it is
evident that in either case Love asserted no title. It matters
not, under the peculiar. circumstances of this case, -wlether
Love sold his own land or the land of W. H. Finley, or simply

LOVE v. FLAHIVE.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

logs; as in the first instance it would work an estoppel of the.
assertion of claim now, in the second it would be conclusive
evidence that the land was not claimed by him, and in the
third it would be equally evidence of the same fact, as from
his own testimony it appears that he laid no claim to the land
upon which the logs were situated.
"This decision is not to be understood as holding that
Love, in selling the Finley claim to Rundall, conveyed to
the latter any title, or that Rundall, in selling to Flahive,
did so; but it appearing that this sale was made, it is conclusive
evidence that Love asserted, at that time, no title in himself,
or if he had prior to such time asserted title, that by such
sale he relinquished all claim in and to the tract in controversy;
and that he is in equity and good faith estopped from asserting
title against the vendee of the purchaser from him.
"The decision appealed from is therefore affirmed and the
application of Love to enter the tract in controversy is held
subject to the rights of Annie Flahive, the widow of Michael
Flahive."
Of course, whether there was a sale, and what was the
thing sold, were matters of fact to be determined by the
testimony,. and the findings of the Land Department in that
respect. are conclusive in the courts. It is objected by the
plaintiff that a sale of a homestead prior to the issue of patent
is void under the statutes of the United States. Anderson v.
Carkins,, 135 U. S. 483. This is undoubtedly the law, and
the ruling of the Secretary was not in conflict with it, but the
fact that one seeking to enter a tract of land as a homestead
cannot make a valid sale thereof is not at all inconsistent
with his. right to relinquish his application for the land, and
so the Secretary of the Interior ruled. While public policy
may prevent enforcing a contract of sale, it does not destroy
its significance as a declaration that the vendor no longer
claims any rights. He cannot sell and at the same time
deny that he has made a sale. The Government may fairly
treat it as a relinquishment,. an abandonment of his application

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Petitioner.

205 U. S.

and entry. No man entering land as a homestead is bound.
to perfect his title by occupation. He may abandon it at
any time, or he may in any other satisfactory way relinquish
the rights acquired by his entry. Having done that, he is no
longer interested -in the title to the land. That is a matter
to be settled between the Government and other applicants.
In this case, Love having relinquished his claim, it does not
lie in his mouth to challenge the action of the Government
in patenting the land to Mrs. Flahive.
We see. no error in the record, and the judgment of the.
Supreme Court ofMontana is.
Affirmed.
MR,.JUSTICE

WHITE

took no part in the decision of this case.

,IHISCOCK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, , v MERTENS.
CER.TIORAR1 TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
!CIRCUIT.
No. 209.

Argued February 27, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

The provisions in ยง 70a of'thebankiuptcy act of 1898, that a bankrupt
having policies of life insurance: payable to himself and which have a
cash-surrender value, may pay the trustee such, value and thereafter
..hold the policies fiee from the claims :of creditors, are not confined to
policies in which the cash surrender value is expressly stated, but permit
the .redemp tion by the' banknipt of policies having a cash. -surrender
value by the concession or practice of the company issuing the same.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Will B. .Crqwley for petitioner:
These policies are not strictly life insurance policies, but
investrhents.

They 'have no cash surrender value within the

