EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 225
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

is probably rather deepest," and this seems to us to have
been true for the whole time. Upon the whole evidence we
are compelled to decide that the plaintiffs have made out their
case.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN agrees with the Circuit Court as to
both the facts and the law, and therefore dissents.

MR.

JUSTICE PiCKHAM

took no part in the decision.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING AND DEVELOPING
COMPANY v. HANLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR.
THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.
No. 206.

Argued February 1, 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

In a suit in the Circuit.Court of the-United States where diverse citizenship
exists, if the real question is the controlling effect of res judicata of a
decree rendered between the parties in another suit, and whether the
court rendering it had jurisdiction so to do and those questions are decided upon principles of general law, the case is not one involving the
construction and application of the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and a direct appeal does not lie to this court under ยง 5 of the
Court of Appeals Act of 1891,29 Stat. 492; nor can the decision appealed
from be converted into one involving the construction and application
of the Constitution by averring argumentatively that to give such effect
to the former adjudication amounts to depriving a party of due process
of law.
THE defendant in error, complainant below, brought suit
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Idaho against the Empire State-Idaho Mining and Developing
Company and the Federal Mining and Smelting Company,
appellants herein. The bill filed July 27, 1904;-- alleged di%oI7. cc%\--I"5

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

versity of citizenship as the ground of jurisdiction, and averred
that the Empire State-Ilaho Mining and Developing Company, the Federal Mining and Smelting Company and complainants are the owners and possessors, as tenants in common,
of the Skookum mine and mining claim and the ores therein
contained, situated in Yreka Mining District, Shoshone County,
Idaho. The complainant was alleged to be. the owner of an
undivided one-eighth interest in the fee' thereof, and the
Empire State-Idaho Mining and Developing Company the
owner of the undivided seven-eighths of said mine and claim.
There are other allegations, not necessary to be here set
out, and then, in the eighth paragraph of the bill, it is alleged:
"8. That prior to May 17, 1902, the defendant Empire
State-Idaho Mining and Developing Company extracted from
said mine, through said tunnels, large quantities of ore and
sold the same and received all of the proceeds thereof and
paid no part of the same to -complainant; that complainant
b;ought suit on March 19, 1899, iii the United States Circuit
Court, District of Idaho (a court having jurisdiction of the
parties and subject matter) against said defendant and Charles
Sweeny and F. Lewis Clark, to recover his share of the proceeds and to quiet his title to said mine and ore bodies; and
in said suit iecovered a decree against said defendant Empire
State-Idaho Mining and Developing Company, duly given
and made in said United States Circuit Court at Moscow,
Idaho, on or about November 17, 1902, for the sum of one hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($175,000), and Which
decree qiieted the title of this complainant to said one-eighth
interest in said claim and ore bodies, a certified and attested
copy of which decree was, on the- day of November, 1902,
recorded in Shoshone County, Idaho, and the amount decreed
to complainant therein remains unpaid and unsatisfied, excepting the sum of $5,523.42; that as the result of an appeal
from said decree by complainant the same was, on the tenth
day of May, 1904, so modified as to make the amount thereof
$255,061.40, with interest thereon from February 15 until

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 227
205 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

paid, at seven per cent per annum, and the said amount and
every part thereof is now unpaid."
The bill avers the extraction of a large amount of ore in
which the complainant alleges he is entitled to an interest,
and that the defendant the Empire State-Idaho Mining and
Developing Company and the Federal Mining and Smelting
Company deny the title of the defendant to the mining and ore
bodies. It further avers that the defendants are. appropriating the ores mined to their own use, and, after other
allegations not necessary to be set out, prays for an injunction
restraining the defendants from extracting ore from the
Skookui mine pending the suit, and for an accounting for
the ores extracted from the mines and claim since May 17, 1902.
By the amended answer the defendants, among other
defenses, set up that the ores which they are extracting belong to a vein or lode not having, its apex within the Skookum
mining claim, but belonging to a vein having its apex within
the lode mining claim lying to the north. of the Skookum
claim and a part of the San Carlos claim owned by the defendants, and deny that the defendants are mining any ores
in which the complainant has any right, and avers that the
claim thereto iswithout merit; and coming to answer the eighth_
paragraph of the bill, setting up the decree upon which the
plaintiffs relied for their title, the defendants set up paragraphs
6 and 7:
"6. Answering paragraph eighth of- the bill, these defendants admit that an action was brought against the parties
named in said paragraph 'as alleged therein, but deny that
said action was brought to quiet title to said ore bodies, or
that the decree therein did in fact quiet title to said ore bodies
or to an undivided one-eighth interest therein in the complainant, and allege further concerning said decree in said
action that the court, in the said action, had no jurisdiction
to determine title to the said Skookum mine or to the ore
bodies lying within or beneath the said mining claim, for
the reason that the bill of complaint in the said action does

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U.S.

-not purport to be an action to quiet title to the said mine or
ore bodies, nor does the same make a case for the quieting
of title thereto, nor is it such as to authorize the decree rendered in said action purporting to quiet the title to said mine
and ore bodies, and for the further reason alleged by defendants to be a fact, that no opportunity was given to the defendants therein to litigate the title' to said'ofe bodies before the
decree in said action_ purporting to quiet title was rendered,
and for the further reason, that at the time-of the commencement of said action the defendant herein, Empire State-Idaho
Mining and Developing Company, was, as shown by the
complaint herein, in exclusive possession of such ore bodies
and the complainant was out of possession thereof, and an
action of law alone would lie in the Federal court to determine
title to such ore bodies, and that the defendant therein, being
the defendant, Empire State-"Idahb Mining and Developing
Company, had a right under the laws and Constitution of the
United States to a trial by jury of the question of title to said
ore bodies, and defendants allege that so much of the decree
in said action as undertook or purported to quiet title to such
ore bodies was, and is absolutely void as to the Empire StateIdaho Mining and Developing Company, becavise the same
constituted and was .infact an attempt to deprive it of its
property withcut due process of law within t e meaning of
aiticle 5 of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States, and because the same constituted an adjudication
of its property rights without its consent. by the court without
a jury, contrary to the provisions of article 7 of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
"7. The defendants attach hereto, marked Exhibit A,
and pray that the same may be taken as a part of this answer,.
copies of. the complaint, answer and replication in the action
referred to in the eighth paragraph in,the bill, and allege
that. the same constituted the sole pleadings in the said action,
and together 3ith he evidence constituted the sole basis for
the, final decree rendered therein, a copy of which is attached

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 229
205 u. S.

Statement of the Case.

hereto and marked Exhibit B, and made a part hereof; that
after the replication in said cause was filed testimony was
taken before an examiner, on the part of the complainant,
in support of the allegations contained in the bill, to wit,
the allegations that the defendants Clark and Sweeney had
acquired the one-eighth interest in the Skookum mine from
the complainant by fraud, covin and deceit, and testimony
was introduced by the defendants contradicting the testimony
of the complainant, and tending to support the affirmative
allegations of the answer, and no testimony was offered or
taken, either for complainant or defendants, concerning the
said one-eighth interest, except the evidence for and against
fraud, covin and deceit, as before alleged. Thereupon the
said cause was submitted to the court for decision, and the
said Circuit Court entered a decree in favor of the defendants
therein. Thereupon complainant in that suit appealed to
the United States Court of Appeals for, the Ninth Circuit
from the said decree, and the said court, after a hearing upon
the pleadings and the evidence before it, found that the allegations of the bill relating to the fraud in procuring title to
the one-eighth interest claimed by the said Hanley were sustained by the evidence, and the decree was reversed and the
cause sent back to the Circuit Court for the further proceedings in accordance with the opinion. Thereupon an order
was made by the Circuit Court directing an accounting, and
evidence was introduced by complainant to show the amount
and value of ores extracted from the Skookum mine prior to
May, 1902, by the defendants in said suit. That defendants
in the said action thereupon offered to prove that the said
ore so extracted from underneath the Skookum mine prior
to that time was part of the vein having its apex in the said
San Carlos claim, above referred to, owned by defendants,
and that the said San Carlos claim was so located that its
extralateral rights included the ore bodies from which the
said ores were extracted. The said offer to prove the said
fact was thereupon denied by the said court, acting under

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.'
Statement of the Case.

205 IT. S.

the order of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, in a certain mandamus proceeding brought
in said court to test the question; that defendants in the said
action thereafter, and at all times, contended and insisted
that they had a right to show in the accounting that the ores
taken from under the Skookum claim were a part of the vein
apexing in the San Carlos claim, of which the defendants
were the owners, and that the court was without jurisdiction
to render a decree in the said action quieting title to the
Skookum mine, 6r to the ore bodies referred to in the bill of
complaint, but its contentions and objections were overruled
and the decree averred, by the complainant was rendered
notwithstanding such protests and objections; and defendants aver that the said decree purporting to quiet title in said
ore bodies was rendered without evidence being taken upon
the said contention of the defendants, and without any evidence whatever being heard which-threw any light upon the
contention; and said decree was thereafter, upon, appeal to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, affirmed,' the court in said cause holding as ground
for its action that the bill of complaint made a cause for quieting title to the one-eighth -interest in the said Skookum mine
and to the ore bodies in the limits thereof, and that the de-.
fendants in said cause, having failed to plead title to the ore
bodies, in themgelves by virtue of the facts hereinbefore set
up, were estopped -to-litigate the said facts."
The .complainant below filed exceptions to this amended
answer, Iin which he averred that in the former decree the
titl to the ore bodies in question was quieted and that 'the
issues made in that case were within the jurisdiction- and power
of.the court to determine,: and, that the question of the right
and' title to one-eighth of the' Skookum mine and mining claim
and ores therein containedhad be.n determined in the former
suit ir favor of the complainant and the said question had
become res judicatain a court having jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject matter.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 231
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon hearing the exceptions to the amended answer, they
were sustained and the answer held insufficient. Thereupon
the defendants, averring that the court was in error and that
the said amended answer constituted a defense, declined to
plead further, and elected to stand upon the amended answer.
The complainant thereupon moved the court for a final decree
for one-eighth of the amounts stated in paragraph 9 of .the
answer to have been mined as therein stated. A final decree
was rendered accordingly, and thereupon a direct appeal
was taken to this court.
Mr. George Turner, with whom Mr. F. T. Post was on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. Myron A. Folsom for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the fLregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In the brief and argument of the. learned counsel for the
plaintiff in error it is said: "The sole question in the case is
whether, on the facts set up and pleaded in the answer, there
was jurisdiction in the United States Circuit Court in the
former suit to render the judgment quieting. in the complainant
Hanley title to one-eighth of all the ore bodies found within
the boundaries of the Skookum mining claim. The lower
court thought the answer failed to show want of jurisdiction
and sustained complainant's exceptions."
A preliminary question for examination in this court,
although not made in argument by counsel, is whether this
court has jurisdiction of this case by direct appeal from the
judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of Idaho. It is apparent from the statement ,preceding this opinion that the
extent and effect of the adjudication in the first case, wherein
the complainant alleges title was decreed to him, was the real
controversy between the parties. The complainant con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

tended 'that the court in the former case had adjudicated title
to all of the ore bodies found within the boundaries of the
"Skookum claim." The defendants contended that the ore
bodies in controversy belonged to another mine, the San Carlos,
the property of the defdndants, by reason of the fact that
they are of a vein which has its apex in the San Carlos mining
claim and not in the Skookum; and that the decree in the
former suit was without jurisdiction in so far as it undertook
to quiet title for such ore bodies, because the pleadings in
that suit made no case for such decree.
If this case can come here by direct appeal, it must be
because it is within section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act, 1891,
providing for direct appeals in certain cases from the Circuit
Court to this court. Sec. 5,_29 U. S. Stat. 492. It cannot
be brought directly here as a case in which the jurisdiction
of the court is in issue; for the jurisdiction challenged is not
that of the court rendering the decree from which this appeal
is taken, but is that of the court rendering the former decree,
which is set up in the complaint as the basis of the title sued
upon. In re Lennon, 150 U.- S. 393.
If the case is properly here, it must be because it is one
which involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States. It has been repeatedly held
that it is only when the Constitution of the United States is
directly and necessarily drawn in question that such an appeal
can be taken, and the case must be one in which the construction or application of the, Constitution of the United States
is involved as controlling.- We think this case is not of that
character. It is evident that, the real issue as to the former
judgment was whether it was res judicata between the parties,
or, as contended by the plaintiff in error, rendered without
jurisdiction. The court in deciding against the plaintiff in
error decided that the court had jurisdiction and that the
former decree was conclusive. This decision does not necessarily and directly involve the construction or appFcation
of the Constitution of the United States.

EMPIRE STATE-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 233
205 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

In World's Columbian Exposition v. UnitedStates, 56 Fed. Rep.
654, 657, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court, said:
"Cases in which the construction or application of the Constitution is involved, or the constitutionality of any law of
theUnited States is drawn in question, are cases which present
an issue upon such construction or application or constitutionality, the decision of which is controlling; otherwise
every case arising under the laws of the United States might
be said to involve the construction or application of the Constitution, or the validity of such laws."
In re Lennon, 150 U. S. supra, was a proceeding in habeas
corpus to discharge a party held upon an order for imprisonment for failing to pay a fine imposed for contempt. The
petitioner alleged that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
of the case in' which the order of injunction had been issued,
for violation of which the petitioner was alleged to be guilty
of contempt; and that it had no jurisdiction either of the
subject-matter or of the person of the petitioner. The application being denied and direct appeal being taken to this court,
it was held that it would not lie under section 5, Act of March 3,
1891, because the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the petition for habeas corpus was not in issue, nor was the construction or application of the Constitution involved. Of
the latter phase of the case Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking
for the court, said:
"Nor can the attempt be successfully made to bring the
case within the class of cases in which the construction or
application of the Constitution is involved in the sense of
the statute, on the contention that the petitioner was deprived of his liberty without due process of law. The petition
does not proceed on any such theory, but entirely on the
ground of want of jurisdiction in the prior case over the subject-matter and over the person of petitioner, in respect of
inquiry into which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
sought. . If, in the opinion of that court, the restraining order
had been absolutely void, or the petitioner were not bound

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S

by it, he would have been discharged, not because he: would
otherwise be deprived of due process, but because of the
invalidity of the proceedings for want of jurisdiction. The
opinion of the Circuit Court was that jurisdiction in the prior
suit and proceedings existed, and the discharge was refused,
but an appeal from that judgment directly to this court
would not, therefore, lie on the ground that the application
of the Constitution was involved as a consequence of an
alleged erroneous determination of the questions actually
put in issue by the petitioner."
In Carey v. Houston & Texas Central R. R. Co., 150 U. S.
170, in which a bill in equity had been filed in order to impeach
and set aside a decree of foreclosure on the ground of fraud
,and'want of jurisdiction in the foreclosure suit, it was held
that no case for appeal directly to this court was made as one
that involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States. In that case Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"It is argued that the record shows'that complainants had
been deprived of their property without due process of law,
by means of the decree attacked, but because the bill alleged
irregularities, errors and jurisdictional defects in the foreclosure proceedings and fraud in respect thereof and in the
subsequent trousactions, which might have enabled the
railroad company upon a direct appeal to have avoided the
decree of sale, or which, if sustained on this bill, might have
justified the Circuit Court in setting aside that decree, it does
not follow that the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States was involved in the case in the
sense of the statute. In passing upon the validity of that
,decree' the Circuit Court decided no question of the. cnstruction or.application f the Constitution, and, as we have said,
no such question was raised for its consideration. Our conclusion is that the motion to dismiss the appeal must be sustained."
The cases cited were followed and the principles deducible

EMPIRE STATF-IDAHO MINING CO. v. HANLEY. 235
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therefrom applied in Cosmopolitan Mining Company v. Walsh,
193 U. S. 460. In that case it was c6ntended, in a replication
to an answer setting up certain former judgments rendered
against the complainant as a bar to the suit brought by it
to recover possession of the real property soid under the
judgments, that they were awarded without due process of.
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Aniendment. And this
was upon the theory that the service of process in the state
courts upon the corporation's agent -in the suits where the
judgments were rendered was unauthorized by the laws of
the State or the general principle, of law. It was held that
the case was not one directly involving the construction or
application of the Federal Constitution within the meaning
of section 5 of the Act of March 3, 1891, and the writ of error
was dismissed.
We think the principles involved in these cases decisive
against jurisdiction in this court of this appeal. It is true
that it is averred in the sixth paragraph of the amended
answer above set forth that in the action to determine title
to the ore bodies the mining company had the right uhder
the laws and Constitution of the United States to a trial by.
jury, of which it was deprived; and that so much of the decree
as undertook to quiet title to the ore bodies was rendered
without jurisdiction, because the same constituted and was
in fact an attempt to deprive the defendant of its property
without due process of law in violation of the Federal Constitution. But these averments of conclusions as to constitutional rights do not change the real character of the controversy and make it a case in which th'e controlling rile of
decision involves the construction or al)plication of the Constitution of the United States.
The thing relied upon inthis case.was the controlling effect
as res judicata. of a decrec rendered between the parties in
another suit. And, the real issue was as to the jurisdiction
of the court to render the decree. The determination of that
luestion
did not involve the construction or application -of
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

205 U. S.

the Constitution of the United States. The Circuit Court
held that the court rendering the first decree had jurisdiction,
to determine the ownership of the ore bodies underneath the
surface of the Skookum claim. The court thus really decided
a question of res jidicata between the parties upon general
principles of law. And it does not convert the decision into
one involving the construction and application of the Constitution of the United States to aver, argumentatively, that
to give such effect to a former adjudication under the circumstances amounts to depriving a party of due process of
law.

We are of opinion therefore that the case does not come
within the fifth section of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act as
one directly appealable to this court.
The writ of error is dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
this court.

ROCHESTER RAILWAY COMPANY vi.CITY OF ROCHE STER.
ERROR TO THE SU~PREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 156.

Argued January 14. 15. 1907.-Decided March 25, 1907.

Although the obligations of a legislative c6ntract granting immunity from
the exercise of governmental authority are protected by the Federal
Constitutioii from impairment by the State, the. contract itself is not
property which as such can be transferred by the owner to another, but
is personal to him with whom it is made and incapable of assignment,
unless by the same or a subsequent law the State authorizes or directs
such transfer; and so held as to a contract of exemption with a street
railway company from assessments for paving between its tracks.
The rule that every doubt is resolved in favor of the continuance of governniental power, and that clear and unmistakable evidence of the intent
to part therewith is required, which applies to determining whether a legislative contract of exemption from such power was granted also applies to
determining whether its transfer to another was authorized or directed.
A legislative -ithority to tiansfer the estate, property, rights, privileges

