FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
205 U. S.

Syllabus.

preme Court of the State on a question relating to its law.
But holding the opinion that the law directly taxes national
securities, our duty is clear. If by the simple device of adopting the value of corporation shares as the measure of the
taxation of the property of the corporation that property
loses the immunities which the supreme law gives to it, then
national securities may easily be taxed, whenever they are
owned by a corporation, and the national credit has no defense against a serious wound.
Judgments reversed, and cases remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

TICE PECKHAM

and MR. JUS-

dissent.

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 184.

Argued January 26, 28, 1907.-Decided April 29, 1907.

The possession of a temporary receiver in bankruptcy of the proceeds of
property, upon which the bankrupt had fraudulently imposed a lien,
deposited as a special fund to await the further order of the court, did
not affect the rule that under the bankruptcy act of 1898, prior to the
amendment of February 5, 1903, 33 Stat. 797, the state court in which
an action could have been brought prior to the bankruptcy to set aside
the lien had exclusive jurisdiction of a similar action brought by the
trustee. The amendment of February 5, 1903, gave the bankruptcy
court in such a case concurrent, not exclusive, jurisdiction.
Where it was necessary that a trustee -in bankruptcy should represent
judgment creditors in order to attack the validity of a chattel mortgage
given by the bankrupt, if the state court has set the mortgage aside and
the record shows that all the proceedings in the bankruptcy court were
in evidence in the state court, it will be presumed that the trustee represented the necessary claims of creditors, although the evidence is not
returned to this court.
109 App. Div. 914, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

205 U. S.

THIS was a suit commenced in December, 1902, in the
Supreme Court of New York for the County of Kings by Joseph
Vollkommer, Jr., as trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of
Jacob Vogt, bankrupt, against Solon L. Frank and Samuel
Frank, doing business as S. L. & S. Frank, and Jacob Vogt,
to set aside an alleged chattel mortgage on *certain horses,
harness, wagons, etc., given by Vogt to defendants Frank,
April 16, 1902, as fraudulent, and intended to hinder, delay
and defraud creditors.
The, mortgagees had taken possession, and creditors immediately thereafter filed petitions in bankruptcy against Vogt
in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York, whereupon and on June 30, 1902, one
Stoutenburgh was appointed temporary receiver and duly
qualified as such.
As alleged in the complaint, by agreement between the
Franks and the petitioning creditors, which was approved by
,the District Court and entered of record therein July 2, A. D.
1902, it was provided that the property in question should be
sold at public auction on July 3 by the temporary receiver;
"that the expenses of. the sale be paid out of the proceeds
thereof; that the said temporary receiver deposit the net
proceeds of said sale at the People's Trust Company of Brooklyn as a special fund, there to await the further order of the
court upon due notice to all creditors who have or may hereafter
appear; that the lien, if any, of the alleged chattel mortgage
of the said defendants Frank be, transferred to and attached
to said special fund, or deposit, in lieu of and to the same extent
as if attadhed to the said property thereinbefore directed to be
,sold; that in pursuance thereof, said sale was had on the third
of July, A. D. 1902, and the net proceeds thereof, amounting
to about $5,482.47, were on or about the 10th day of July,
i902, duly deposited in the People's Trust Company of Brooklyn, as provided by said agreement."
July 10, A. D. 1902, Vogt was duly adjudicated an involuntary bankrupt, and on November 12, A. D. 1902, VoU-

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMFR.
205 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

kommer, Jr., was appointed trustee in bankruptcy of Vogt,
duly qualified November 21, and entered upon the duties of his
office as trustee. He thereafter filed this complaint against
the Franks and ,Vogt, setting up the proceedings and averring
that defendants Frank claimed a lien upon the special fund
to the whole extent thereof, which constituted a cloud on
plaintiff's title to the fund, and he demanded judgtnent that
the chattel mortgage be declared null and void and cancelled
and discharged of record, and that the special fund be declared free of the incumbrance of the alleged chattel mortgage,
and from any lien or claim by the Franks under the mortgage
or otherwise. The trial court held that the mortgage was
made "with the intent and purpose Of said Vogt and said
defendants Frank to hinder, defeat, defraud and delay said'
Vogt's creditors "; and decreed the annulment of the mortgage, and that it was "no lien upon the moneys,' viz., $5,481.47,
deposited on July 9th, 1902, by Arthur T. Stoutenburgh,
temporary receiver, in the People's Trust Company of Brooklyn, New York, under an order- of the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York made
July 2d, 1902." The case was carried to the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court and the decree was affirmed. ' Leave to
appeal to 'the Cotirt of Appeals was denied. by the Appellate
Division, and subsequently by an Associate Judge of the
Court of Appeals. This writ of error was then allowed.
Mr. Roger Foster for plaintiffs in error:
Plaintiffs in error had a contractual right to have all questions concerning the title to the proceeds of -the receiver's
sale determined by the bankruptcy' court which appointed
the receiver under whose direction the sale took place, and
in whose custody the proceeds were deposited. Havens Co.
v. Pierek, 120 Fed. Rep. \244, 245; Guaranty Co.' v. North
Chicago Ry. Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 801, 813.
Irrespective of the order on which plaintiffs in error had a
right to rely, the state court had no power to make any order

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

205 U. S.

affecting the title to a fund in the possession of a United States
court.
Every court with equitable powers, in whose possession
property is placed, whether tangible property or a fund, has
exclusive jurisdiction to determine the validity of all claims
to a lien upon the same, and to distribute that fund amongst
the rightful owners. No other court has any power to interfere with such property.
This rule of general as well as of Federal jurisprudence applies to proceedings in bankruptcy. The prosecution of this
suit in the state court might have-been enjoined by the court
of bankruptcy. The judgment is, consequently, subject to
reversal by this court, Covell v. Heymen, 111 U. S. 176, 182.
There is no difference in principle, nor in practical importance, so far as this rule is concerned, between a suit where the
state court directs its officer to exercise physical interference
with property in the custody of the Federal tribunal, and one
in which the' decree of the state court affects the title only to
the same, without taking manual possession thereof.
In each case, the judgment of the court which acquired
prior jurisdiction is impeded, clogged and interfered With. It
is, moreover, for the interests of justice that conflicts between
decrees' of codrdinate tribunals should be, avoided; and that
the parties should not be tempted by the hope of thus gaining
some apparent and at least temporary advantage, to indulge
in "an unseemly scramble of litigants to speed cases in the
respective courts of their preference." Sharon v. Terry, 36
Fed. Rep. 337, 359, infra.
Where a sheriff sells land, he merely delivers a deed, which
purports to confer title thereto, and he exercises no physical
control over the same. Yet, such a sale will be enjoined by
the court of the United States with prior jurisdiction. Julian
v. Central Trust Co., 93 U. S. 193.
This rule has been applied 'to bankruptcy proceedings.
It is imperatively necessary that the state courts should be
obliged to respect this rule in cases affecting funds in the pos-

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
205 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

session of the courts ofbankruptcy, in order that the supremacy
of the United States, when exercising that power expressly
granted by the Federal Constitution, may be recognized.
In such cases the courts of the United States can even interfere with property in the possession of the state courts. Tefit
v. Sternberg, 40 Fed. Rep. 2, 6; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S.
256; The Willamette Valley, 66 Fed. Rep. 565; Re Watts and
Sachs, 190 U. S. 1, 32.
Mr. FrancisB. Mullin for defendants in error:
The text-writers and the cases declare in unequivocal terms
for the jurisdiction of the state courts in cases similar to the
one at bar. Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, and
two cases following; Collier on Bankruptcy, 5th ed., 272, infra;
Wall V. Cox, 181 U. S. 244; Brandenburg on Bankruptcy,
3d ed., ยง 581; Jones v. Schermerhorn, 53 N. Y. App. Div. 494;
Silbersten v. Stahl, 32 N. Y. Misc. 353, aff'd 63 N. Y. App.
Div. 614; aff'd 171 N. Y. 649; Small v. Muller, 67 N. Y: App.
Div. 143; Bryan v. Madden, 109 N. Y. App. Div. S76.
Notwithstanding the possession of the fund by the bankruptcy court, it is perfectly proper, and consistent with comity,
as has been said already, to permit the trustee to sue in the
state court, to avoid the mortgage. Such a suit does not
interfere with the possession of the fund.. Where the suit in
the state court asks for relief which might be an interference
with the possession of the Federal court, this does not warrant enjoining the suit, where the principal relief sought
would not be a direct interference. Guaranty Trust Co. v.
North Chicago St. R. Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 801.
The imperfect and partial possession of the funds in this
case. is not sufficient to change the ordinary rule giving the
state courts jurisdiction. In every bankruptcy case, as sqon
as an adjudication is made, the bankruptcy couit is constructively in possession of all the property of the bankrupt.
State Bank v. Cox, 16 Am.. Bk. Rep. 32; York Mfg. Co. v..
Cassell, 15 Am. Bk. Rep. 638; S.C., 20i U. S. 344;'Muellerv,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; Re Granite City Bank, 137 Fed. Rep. 818.
But notwithstanding this possession the state courts have
universally entertained actions by the trustee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Counsel for plaintiffs in error contended below that the state
courts had no jurisdiction because the suit was brought to
determine title to property or a fund in the possession of the
District Court of the United States. The bankruptcy act of
July 1, 1898, provided that "suits by the trustee shall only
be brought or prosecuted in the courts where the bankrupt,
whose estate is being administered by such trustee, might
have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy
had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed
defendant." 30 Stat. 544, c. 541, ยง23b.
In Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, we held that
the bankruptcy court, except by the consent of the defendant,
had no jurisdiction to try and determine a suit brought by a
trustee in bankruptcy to recover property alleged to be part
of the bankrupt's estate, or to have been transferred by him'
in fraud of the act, but that such suits must be prosecuted
either in the state courts or in the Circuit Courts of the United
States where diversity of citizenship existed. The act of 1898
was amended by the act of February 5,.1903, 32 Stat. 797,
c. 487, section 19 of which provided that the act should "not
apply to bankruptcy cases pending when this act takes effect,
but such cases shall be adjudicated and disposed of conformably to the provisions of the said act of July first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight."
The present case was commenced in 1902, and besides the
amendment gave the bankruptcy court concurrent and not
exclusive jurisdiction.
We give in the margin I quotations from the acts of July 1,
1 SEc. 23b: "Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in

the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1898, and February 5, 1903, the amendments made by the
latter act being italicized.
Undoubtedly the state court, in which the trustee brought
trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed defendant,
except suits for the recovery of property under section sixty; subdivision b,
and section sixty-seven subdivision e."
SEC. 60b: "If a bankrupt shall have given a preference within'four months
before the filing of a petition, or after the filing of the petition and before
the adjudication, and the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or
his agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable cause to believe that
it was intended thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the
trustee, and he may recover the property or its value from such person."
"If a bankrupt shall have given a preference, and the person receiving it, or
to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable
cause to believe that it was intended thereby to give a preference, it shall be
voidable by the trustee and he may recover the property or its value from such
person. And, for the purpose of such recovery, any court of bankruptcy, as
hereinbefore defined, and any state court which would have had jurisdiction
if bankruptcy had not intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction."
SEC. 67e: "That all conveyances, transfers, assignments, or incumbrances of his property, or any part thereof, made or given by a person
adjudged a bankrupt under the provisions of this act subsequent to the
passage of this act and within four months prior to the filing of the petition,
with the intent and purpose on his part to hinder, delay, or defraud his
creditors, or any of them, shall be null and void, as against the creditors of
such debtor, except as to purchasers in good faith and for a present fair
consideration; and all property of the debtor conveyed, transferred, assigned,
or incumbered as aforesaid shall, if he be adjudged a bankrupt, and the
same is not exempt from execution and liability for debts by the law of his
domicile, be and remain a part of the assets and estate of the bankrupt
and shall pass to his said trustee, whose, duty it shall be to recover and
reclaim the same by legal proceedings or otherwise for the benefit of the
creditors; And all conveyances, transfers, or incumbrances of his property
made by fl,
debtor at any time within four months prior to the filing of the
petition against him, and while insolvent, which are held null and void as
against the creditors of such debtor by the laws of the State, Territory, or
District in which such property is situate, shall be deemed null and void
under this act against the creditors of such debtor if he be adjudged a bankrupt, and such property shall pass to the assignee and be by him reclaimed
and recovered for the benefit of the creditors of the bankrupt. For the
purpose of such recovery any court of bankruptcy as hereinbefore defined, and
any state court which would have had jurisdiction if bankruptcy had not intervened, shall h'ave concurrent jurisdiction."
SEc. 70e: "The trustee may avoid any transfer by the bankrupt of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

205 U. S.

this suit, was the court "where the bankrupt, whose estate is
being administered by such trustee, might have brought or
prosecuted them [suits], if proceedings in bankruptcy had not
been instituted," and its jurisdiction under the applicable
general rule must be conceded.
But plaintiffs in error contend that the possession by the
bankruptcy court of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged
chattels deprives the state court of its conceded jurisdiction
to set aside the mortgage as fraudulent.
The contention is wholly inadmissible. The mortgaged
property consisted of horses, vehicles, harness, etc., and the
order of sale of the temporary receiver, agreed to by plaintiffs
in error, was evidently in the interest of all parties, and provided for the deposit of the proceeds, not in the general funds
of the estate, but as a special fund, to which the lien, if any,
of the chattel mortgage was transferred, and clearly contemplated a plenary suit to determine the validity thereof, which,
at that time, there being no diversity of citizenship, and no
such possession as might lead to a different result, could only
be commenced in the state court. The trustee himself commenced it there and obtained the decree, which was in its
nature self-executing, and merely set aside the mortgage, and,
as incident theretoi declared that the special fund was free from
its lien, and, without seeking to interfere with the possession,
left it to the bankruptcy court to carry the decree into effect
by placing the money in the custody of its officer, the trustee.
property which any creditor of such bankrupt might have avoided, and
may recover the property so transferred, or its value, from the person to
whom it was transferred, unless he was a bona fide holder for value prior
to the date of the adjudication. Such property may be recovered or its
value collected from whoever may have received it,except a bona fide holder
for'value. For the purpose of such recovery any court of bankruptcy as hereinbefore defined, and any state court which would have had jurisdiction if
bankruptcy had not intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction."
SEc. 19 of act of February 5, 1903: "That the provisions of this amendatory act shall not apply to bankruptcy cases pending when this act takes effect,
but such cases shall'be adjudicatedand disposed of conformably to the provisions
of the said act of July first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight."

FRANK v. VOLLKOMMER.
205 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No principle of comity was violated and there was no interference with the bankruptcy court. First National Bank v.
Title & Trust Company, 198 U. S. 280; Davis v. Friedlander,
104 U. S. 570; Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. S. 521; Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130; Re Platteville Foundry & Machine Company, 147 Fed. Rep. 828; Guaranty Trust Company v. North
Chicago Street RailroadCompany, 130 Fed. Rep. 801; Re Spitzer,
130 Fed. Rep. 879; Bindseil v. Smith, 61 N. J. Eq. 645; Skilton
v. Codington, 185 N. Y. 80. In the latter case the Court of
Appeals by Cullen, C. J., in sustaining the jurisdiction of the
state court, admirably expounds the applicable principles,
with a full citation of authorities. That was a suit against the
trustee, while the present case was brought by the trustee.
The possession of the temporary receiver of the special fund
was not in the circumstances in any sense sufficient to change
the ordinary rule giving the state courts jurisdiction any more
than the constructive possession in every case created by adjudication. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; York Mfg.. Company v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344.
it is objected that the trustee had no right to attack the
validity of the chattel mortgage because it did not appear that
he represented any but simple contract creditors. But the
record before us shows that the entire record of the proceedings in the bankruptcy court was in evidence before the trial
court, though it was not returned here, so that if it were necessary that the trustee should represent judgment creditors,
which we do not decide that it was, it must be presumed that
the trial court in passing. upon all the evidence found that he
did. This may explain why the point was not made in the
trial court, and it comes too late here.
Judgment affirmed.

VOL. ccv-34

