HENDRICKSON v. APPERSON.
102.

Syllabus.

that the rulings were right, so clearly so that the appeal
seems to be without reasonable justification, and therefore to have been taken for delay. The motion to affirm
is accordingly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

HENDRICKSON, JUDGE OF THE COUNTY
COURT OF TAYLOR COUNTY, KENTUCKY,
v. APPERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 427. Argued October 11, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.
A valid judgment was recovered against Taylor County, Kentucky,
upon bonds which it had issued under a refunding act. 1 Acts Ky.,
1877-78, p. 554. Under the law existing when the bonds were issued (Ky. Stats., 1894, § 4131), as construed by the highest court
of the State, it was the duty of the county court when the office
of sheriff was vacant to appoint a single collector, under a single
bond, to collect all county taxes, including those levied to pay the
county's debts. An amendment (Acts .1906, p. 153, § 3), as construed by the highest court of the State, authorized the county
court to appoint more than one collector, under separate bonds,
each charged with the duty of collecting such part of the taxes as
should be designated in his appointment-an arrangement which
made it possible to evade the satisfaction of the county's debts
withodt interrupting its revenue for general county purposes. In
a mandamus proceeding, the courts below directed the members of
the fiscal court of the county to levy taxes to satisfy the judgment
at the same time and by the same order which should provide for
other county taxes and to place the tax bills for collection in the
hands of the sheriff, and in case the sheriff, or successor, should not
give bond and qualify, directed the county judge, when appointing
a special collector, to include in his order of appointment a direction
to collect both the levies to satisfy the judgment and all other levies
of county taxes, and to continue such direction until a collector

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

245 U. S.

should qualify and give bond, and to exact of him but one bond
covering the collection of all the taxes. It was insisted on behalf
of the county that, under the amendment, the county judge might
appoint more than one collector and that his discretion in that regard could not be controlled by mandamus. Held, that the county's
action in other cases, viewed with the present controversy., revealed
well-defined plans of its officials, in notorious operation long before
the passage of the amendment, to avoid payment of the county's
adjudicated indebtedness and a deliberate design to deprive its
creditors of an efficacious remedy provided by law and incorporated
into its contracts; that this court could not ignore actual conditions
and ought not, through assumptions out of harmony with patent
facts, to facilitate the practical destruction of admitted legal obligations; that the circumstances made it clear that the right to have
taxes levied to discharge the judgment collected along with taxes for
general county purposes was a substantial and valuable one, and
that, accepting as this court must the state court's construction of
the laws involved, the amendment could not be sustained as a provision merely for the ordinary and orderly readjustment of administrative matters, but impaired the obligation of the contract under
which the judgment creditors' bonds were issued.
In view of the decision of the Kentucky Court of Appeals declaring
that an attempt to impose on the Circuit Court or judge thereof the
duty of levying and collecting taxes is void under the state constitution, a provision for the satisfaction of bonds in that way, which is
made in the Refunding Act of 1878, Acts 1877-78, p. 554, is ineffectual.
238 Fed. Rep. 473, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Abel Harding.was on

the brief, for petitioner, in dealing with the constitutional
question, urged the analogy between the case at bar and
cases in which the repeal of the remedy of imprisonment

for debt has been held not to impair the obligation of existing contracts. Sturgess v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122;
Mason v. Haile, 12 Wheat. 370; Beers v. Haughton, 9 Pet.

329; Vial v. Penniman, 103 U. S. 717.
Like the threat of imprisonment for debt, the threat

HENDRICKSON v. APPERSON.
105.

Argument for Petitioner.

of governmental paralysis overhanging a county if it cannot collect moneys for governmental purposes without collecting them also to satisfy debts is a kind of personal
duress; and experience, in both cases, has shown that the
duress is not productive of payment. Changes are allowable if reasonable, and of reasonableness the legislature is
primarily the judge. If a state of facts could exist which
would justify the change of remedy, it must be presumed
that it did exist and that the law was passed on account of
it. Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769. The Kentucky
legislature may well have found that the provision for
collecting all taxes through one collector under one bond
was in practice of no value to the county's creditors, while
productive of much public harm in the administration of
the county government. The change in the law was therefore reasonable. The fact that the new remedy may be
less convenient or more tardy than the old one does not
render it objectionable. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311.
It has often been held that a remedy for collection is not
inadequate merely because it does not produce satisfaction
promptly. Rees v. City .of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107. The
condition of the law existing at the time of the contract,
for collection of taxes through one collector, was not part
of the contract. Morley v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 146 U. S.
162. All that the creditors have lost is a certain power
growing out of the fear of anarchy or disruption of the
county government, if the debt is not paid. The creditor has no vested right to the influence of such a fear as
a part of his contract.
Mr. L. A. Faurest, with whom Mr. A. E. Richards
and Mr. Lewis Apperson were on the briefs, for respondent.
Mr. Ernest Macpherson, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

245 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Seeking to enforce a long-standing judgment against
Taylor County, respondent instituted this proceeding
(May, 1916) in the United States District Court at Louisville against County Judge Hendrickson and justices of
the peace constituting the Fiscal Court. The judgment
was based on bonds authorized by a special act of the
Kentucky legislature approved in 1878 and entitled,
"An Act for the benefit of Taylor county, empowering
it to compromise its debts, issue bonds, and levy and
collect taxes to pay the same" (1 Acts 1877-78, p. 554);
they had been used to compromise and take up others
issued under an Act of 1869, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Cumberland and Ohio Railroad Company"
(1 Acts 1869, p. 463).
He asked a "writ of mandamus, commanding and requiring the defendants to levy a tax upon each one hundred
dollars of property assessed for valuation in said county
for the year 1916, sufficient to pay plaintiff's aforesaid
judgment, interest and costs, and that they be required
to include in the order making the levy for ordinary
county purposes the aforesaid levy for the purpose of
paying the aforesaid judgment; and to further direct the
said W. T. Hendrickson, as county judge of Taylor county,
that when he next appoints a collector whose duty it shall
be to collect any or all items by a levy made by the Fiscal
Court of Taylor county for any purpose, he shall embrace
in said order of appointment a direction to the officer
appointed to collect both the levy made to pay this judgment and the levy made and to be made for any item
which may be levied by said Fiscal Court, and that said
county judge shall continue to so embrace said directions
in the same order of appointment until a collector is appointed who shall qualify as such collector, and said

HENDRICKSON v. APPERSON.
105.

Opinion of the Ccurt.

county judge shall exact of him but one and a single bond
to cover the collection of the levy made to pay this judgment, as aforesaid, and the item or items of any levy
made by the Fiscal Court of Taylor county for any other
purpose."
Answering, defendants set up: "That under the statutes of Kentucky, as construed by the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, the County Court of Taylor county has a
discretion as to whether it will appoint one person to collect
all moneys due the state and the county, and taxing
districts therein, or as to whether it will appoint separate
collectors and designate in the order of appointment of
each collector what he shall collect, including the right
and discretion to appoint one collector to collect taxes
levied by the Fiscal Court of the county for ordinary
county purposes, and another collector to collect taxes
levied by the Fiscal Court for other purposes, such as
the payment of judgments against the county, and to
direct in each order of appointment what taxes the appointee thereunder shall collect, and for the collection
of which he should be required to give bond. And they
respectfully submit that this honorable court cannot,
by its judgment, control the aforesaid discretion of the
County Court of Taylor county, given it by the statutes
of Kentucky as construed by the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky."
Having heard the cause on demurrer to the answer,
the trial court directed that appropriate levies be made
during 1916, 1917, and 1918, .to raise funds 'to satisfy
respondent's judgment at the same time and by the same
order which should provide for other county taxes. And
further, "that said defendants and their successors in
office, as the Fiscal Court of Taylor county, be, and they
are hereby, ordered to place the tax bills for each of the
aforesaid levies for collection in the hands of the sheriff
of Taylor county, and his successor in office, if any, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

upon default of said sheriff to execute bond and qualify
for said office, then W. T. Hendrickson, county judge,
and his successor in office, if any, constituting the county
court of said county, is directed when he next appoints a
collector whose duty it shall be to collect any or all items
of any levy made, or which may hereafter be made by
the Fiscal Court of Taylor county for any purpose, to
embrace in said order of appointment a direction to such
officer appointed to collect both the levy made or which
may hereafter be made to pay this judgment and the levy
made or which may hereafter be made for any and all items
which are levied or which may be levied by said Fiscal
Court; and said county judge, acting as said county court,
shall continue to so embrace such directions in the same
order of appointment until a collector is appointed who
shall qualify as such collector by executing proper bond;
and said county judge shall exact of him but one and
a single bond to collect the levy made, or which may
hereafter be made to pay this judgment as aforesaid,
and the item or items for any levy made, or which may
hereafter be made by said Fiscal Court for any other
purpose,
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the action of the
District Court, but upon a different view, following
Tucker v. Hubbert, 196 Fed. Rep. 849, and Graham v.
Quinlan, 207 Fed. Rep. 268.
Petitioner maintains that § 4131, Kentucky Statutes,
as amended in 1906 and construed by the Court of
Appeals (Commonwealth &c. v. Moody, 150 Kentucky,
571), empowers the Taylor County Court to appoint one
collector of all county taxes; or, if so advised, to designate
more than one and direct each to collect certain taxes,
under a bond covering only those specified; and that such
discretion cannot be interfered with by mandamus.
Respondent maintains, that properly construed, § 4131
permits appointment of only one such collector; and that

HENDRICKSON v. APPERSON.
105.

Opinion of the Court.

if the 1906 amendment means what petitioner asserts,
it impairs his contract with the county, contrary to the
Federal Constitution, Article 1, § 10.
It is stated, without contradiction, that prior to 1906
§ 4131 embodied the applicable statutory provision concerning a collector in effect when the refunding bonds
were issued. See Kentucky. General Statutes, 1873, c. 92,
Art. 8, § 2; Kentucky Statutes of 1894, § 4131.
The original section follows:
"Section 4131. On the failure of the sheriff or collector
to execute bond and qualify as hereinbefore provided, he
shall forfeit his office, and the county court may appoint a
sheriff or collector to fill the vacancy until a sheriff or
collector is elected, or it may appoint a collector for the
county of all moneys due the State, county or taxing
district authorized to be collected by the sheriff, or it
may appoint a separate collector of all the moneys due
the State, county or any taxing district thereof during
the vacancy in the office of sheriff; and in the event the
county court fails for thirty days to appoint a collector
of money due the State, the Auditor of Public Accounts
may appoint a collector thereof. Such collectors shall,
within ten days after their appointment, execute bond as
required by the sheriff, to be approved by the county
court, and if the bond be not executed within said time
the appointment of another collector may in like manner
be made and qualified."
The amendment of 1906 added these words: "But such
collector shall only be required to give bond for and collect such taxes or moneys as may be mentioned or provided for in the order of the county court appointing
him."
In Commonwealth &c. v. Wade's Admr. (Oct., 1907),
126 Kentucky, 791, the Court of Appeals held, that, under
the original section, where there was no sheriff only one
person could be appointed to collect all county taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

In Commonwealth &c. v. Moody (Nov., 1912), 150 Kentucky, 571, the same court construed the amendment,
and held, we are constrained to conclude, notwithstanding
some grave doubts, that it authorized appointment of
special collectors, each charged with the duty of collecting only some designated part of assessed county taxes.
And, of course, this construction by the State's highest
court must be accepted.
But so construed, we are of opinion that the amendment would impair the contract under which the bonds
were issued, and upon which respondent has a right to
rely. It cannot, therefore, be permitted to defeat the
remedy theretofore available to him.
The doctrine of this court here to be applied has long
been established.
In Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 550, 552,
553, through Mr. Justice Swayne, we said:
"It is also settled that the laws which subsist at the
time and place of the making of a contract, and where it
is to be performed, enter into and form a part of it, as if
they were expressly referred to or incorporated in its
terms. This principle embraces alike those which affect
its validity, construction, discharge, and enforcement.
Nothing can be more material to the obligation
than the means of enforcement. Without the remedy the
contract may, indeed, in the sense of the law, be said not
to exist, and its obligation to fall within the class of those
moral and social duties which depend for their fulfilment
wholly upon the will of the individual. The ideas of
validity and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts
of the obligation, which is guaranteed by the Constitution against invasion. The obligation of a contract 'is
the law which binds the parties to perform their agreement.' The prohibition has no reference to the degree
of impairment. The largest and least are alike forbidden. .
.
It is competent for the States to change

HENDRICKSON v. APPERSON.
105.

Opinion of the Court.

the form of the remedy, or to modify it otherwise, as
they may see fit, provided no substantial right secured
by the contract is thereby impaired. No attempt has
been made to fix definitely the line between alterations
of the remedy, which are to be deemed legitimate, and
those which, under the form of modifying the remedy,
impair substantial rights. Every case must be determined
upon its own circumstances. Whenever the result last
mentioned is produced the act is within the prohibition
of the Constitution, and to that extent void."
"The obligation of a contract, in the constitutional
sense, is the means provided by law by which it can be
enforced,-by which the parties can be obliged to perform it. Whatever legislation lessens the efficacy of these
means impairs the obligation. If it tend to postpone or
retard the enforcement of the contract, the obligation
of the latter is to that extent weakened." Louisiana v.
New Orleans, 102 U. S. 203, 206. And see Seibert v. Lewis,
122 U. S. 284, 294, 295.
Considered in the light of Taylor County's notable and
repeated successful efforts to avoid payment of adjudicated indebtedness and also in connection with the present
controversy, we think it clear that the right to have any
tax levied to discharge respondent's claim collected along
with taxes for general county purposes was a substantial
and valuable one. The circumstances indicate a deliberate design upon the part of county officials to deprive its
creditors of an efficacious remedy provided by law and
incorporated into its contracts. To give the amendment
the effect claimed would render easier of accomplishment
well defined plans obviously designed to defeat proper
judicial process and in notorious operation long before
its passage. There is here something more than provision for the ordinary and orderly readjustment of administrative matters evidently intended to facilitate public
business. Actual conditions cannot be ignored, and

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

certainly we ought not, through assumptions out of harmony with patent facts and over-nice refinements, to
facilitate the practical destruction of admitted legal
obligations.
The declarations of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky
in Commonwealth &c. v. Wade's Admr. (pp. 801, 802),
are illuminating. Referring to the appointment of a
separate collector charged with the sole duty of collecting
a special tax ostensibly levied to satisfy a judgment against
Taylor County, it said:
"There can be little doubt that the fiscal court, by
what they did in the matter, were undertaking to nullify
the judgment of the circuit court. The appointment of
the special collector, Trotter, of whom nothing was ever
afterward heard, and who in no way attempted to qualify
as collector, or discharge the duties of that office, point
to the fact that this was an arrangement by which the fiscal
court could seemingly comply with the judgment, but
without, in fact, accomplishing anything. This unlawful
purpose could only be successful by the failure of the
regular collector of the revenue to do his duty in the
premises, and to collect the taxes provided for by the
special levy. Such juggling with the decrees and judgments of the courts cannot be tolerated. Ours, as has often
been said, is a government of laws, and, if the judgments
of the courts enforcing the law may be thus nullified
or disregarded either by overt act or culpable negligence,
government is at an end. The county is as amenable to the law as an individual, and it is the high duty
of its officials to enforce the law wherever and whenever
they are its ministers.
.
It seems to us high
time that it should be taught as a practical lesson, as
well as a theory, that there are none so high as to be above
the restraints of the law, or so low as to be beneath its
protection."
The argument for petitioner, that the Refunding Act

HENDRICKSON v. CREAGER.
105.

Counsel for Parties.

of 1878 provided an exclusive remedy through application
to the Circuit Court in case the County Court should fail
in its duty, is not well founded. The decisions of the
Court of Appeals in Muhlenburg County v. Morehead,
20 Ky. Law Rep. 376, and Pennington v. WoQlfolk, 79
Kentucky, 13, make it quite plain that an "attempt to
impose on the Circuit Court or judge thereof the duty
of levying and collecting taxes is unconstitutional and
void" under the jurisprudence of Kentucky.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

HENDRICKSON, JUDGE OF THE COUNTY COURT
OF TAYLOR COUNTY, KENTUCKY, v. CREAGER.
SAME v. GARDNER.
SAME v. HOCKER.
SAME v. STERLING LAND & INVESTMENT
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 428, 429, 430, 431.

Argued October 11, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

Decided on the authority of Hendrickson v. Apperson, ante, 105.
238 Fed. Rep. 473, affirmed.

Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Abel Harding was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. L. A. Faurest, with whom Mr. A. E. Richards
was on the brief, for respondents.

