OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

SCHNEIDER GRANITE COMPANY v. GAST
REALTY & INVESTMENT COMPANY ET AL.
GAST REALTY & INVESTMENT COMPANY ET AL.
v. SCHNEIDER GRANITE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 461, 473.

Argued October 11, 12, 1917.-Decided December 10,
1917.

A street improvement tax having been laid upon abutting property
under a city ordinance, partly according to frontage and partly
according to area, and the state court having sustained it in toto,
this court reversed its judgment upon the sole ground that the
assessment based on area had produced results in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment, and sent the case back for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion. Upon a second review,
held, that the questions whether the part of the tax based on frontage
was severable, though the other part was void, and whether, and by
what agency, a new and just area assessment should be made, were
questions of state law, untouched by this court's decision and mandate, and left for determination by the state court. Gast R ealty Co.
v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55, explained.
269 Missouri, 561, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Hickman P. Rodgers and Mr. William K. Koerner

for Schneider Granite Company.
Mr. Thomas G. Rutledge and Mr. David Goldsmith, with
whom Mr. Robert A. Holland, Jr., and Mr. J. M. Lashly

were on the brief, for Gast Realty & Investment Company
et al.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are cross writs of error, bringing under review a
judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of Missouri

SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO. v. GAST REALTY CO.
288.

289

Opinion of the Court.

after the reversal by this court of a previous judgment in
the same action.
The action was brought to collect a tax bill for paving
one of the streets in St. Louis, levied upon land fronting
upon the street, under an ordinance that imposed onefourth of the cost of the improvement upon all the abutting
property according to its frontage, and three-fourths
according to area upon all the property in an improvement district whose boundaries were to be fixed in a manner specified in the ordinance, the effect of which, as applied to the property in question, was to extend the area
assessment upon defendants' land to a depth of between
400 and 500 feet, while other lands similarly benefited by
the improvement were subjected to the area assessment
to a much less depth. A judgment of the Supreme Court,
which had affirmed a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the City of St. Louis sustaining the tax (259 Missouri, 153),
was reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court. 240
U. S.55.
Upon the going down of the mandate, the case was transferred to the Supreme Court in banc, whereupon the plaintiff prayed that the cause be remanded to the Circuit
Court (the trial court) with directions, first, to render
judgment for the amount of the frontage assessment in
the original tax bill, with interest, and second, to charge
against the land a proper area assessment, in some mode
to be prescribed by the Supreme Court in its mandate;
it being plaintiff's contention that the decision of this
court did not condemn the entire area assessment, but
only so much of it as was in excess of. benefits received.
On the other hand, the landowners moved for a reversal
of the judgment of the Circuit Court in toto, with directions for the entry of a general judgment in their favor.
The Supreme Court, interpreting our decision as limited
to holding the ordinance invalid only so far as concerned

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the area assessment, reversed the judgment of the trial
court, and remanded the cause with directions to enter
judgment for the amount of the frontage assessment,
with interest.
Both parties sued out writs of error from this court,
plaintiff on the ground that the state court refused its
application for an area assessment, the landowners upon
the ground that there was error in directing judgment for
any part of the tax bill sued on.
These contentions must be tested by the true intent
and meaning of the mandate of this court, and, so tested,
both must be overruled. The mandate, while reversing
the judgment that was under review on the former writ
of error, permitted further proceedings of any kind to be
had in the state courts, provided they were not inconsistent with the opinion of this court. It left the tribunals
of the State at liberty to exercise their proper jurisdiction
in the cause between the parties, so long as they avoided
a conflict with the rights of the landowners under the
Fourteenth Amendment as established by our decision.
As our former opinion shows, the conflict with federal
rights was due solely to the mode in which that portion
of the tax which was levied according to area was distributed. The subsequent judgment of the state court sustaining the tax to the extent of the frontage assessment
was not inconsistent with it.
The landowners insist that the two elements were inseparable, and that the tax, being void in part, was entirely Void. But the Supreme Court of the State held in
this case, following Collier Estate v. Western Paving &
Supply Co., 180 Missouri, 362, 375, that the tax was severable. This, like the kindred question of the severability
of a statute of the State, is a question of state law. See
Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347, 366; Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368, 380. In those cases we passed upon the
question of severability, in the absence of controlling state

SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO. v. GAST REALTY CO. 291
288.

Opinion of the Court.

rulings; but we were there reviewing the proceedings of
federal courts, and were called upon to consider qfiestions
of state as well as of federal law, while in reviewing the
judgments of state courts we are confined to the federal
questions.
Plaintiff's contention that our mandate required a new
assessment in lieu of the former area assessment is likewise unfounded. It is true that there would be nothing
inconsistent with our former judgment and mandate in
imposing a new area assessment, so long as it did not infringe the landowners' rights under the Constitution of
the United States. But whether such new assessment
should be made, and, if made, whether it should be done
by a court or by an assessing board or other appropriate
instrumentality, and whether further legislation was
needed for the purpose, were and are matters of state law,
it being well settled that where a special assessment to
pay for a particular improvement has been held to be
illegal, the Constitution of the United States does not
prevent the making of a new and just assessment to pay
for the completed work. Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S.
345; Bellingham Bay &c. R. R. Co. v. New Whatcom, 172
U. S. 314; Lombard v. West Chicago Park Commissioners,
181 U. S. 33, 42. Our former decision left the Supreme
Court of Missouri, and the other agencies of the State,
entirely unhampered in this regard.
No. 461, Affirmed.
No. 473, Affirmed.

