OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
245 U. S.

Syllabus.

tucky court. But with the consistency or inconsistency of
t1e Kentucky cases we have nothing to do. Lombard v.
West Chicago Parkc Commissioners, 181 U. S. 33, 44, 45.

We presume that like other appellate courts the Kentucky
Court of Appeals is free to depart from precedents if on
further reflection it thinks them wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissents.

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 33. Argued April 10, 11, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
April 17, 1916; reargued April 27, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.
A city ordinance which forbids colored persons to occupy houses in
blocks where the greater number of houses are occupied by white
persons, in practical effect prevents the sale of lots in such blocks
to colored persons, and is unconstitutional. A white owner, who has
made an otherwise valid and enforceable contract to convey such
a lot to a colored person, for the erection of a house upon it for occupancy by the vendee, is deprived, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, of an essential element of his property,-the right to
dispose of it to a constitutionally qualified purebaser,-and may
attack the prohibition under the Fourteenth Amendment in a suit
for specific performance of the contract against the vendee.
A city ordinance forbidding colored persons from occupying houses as
residences, or places of abode or public assembly, on blocks where
the majority of the houses are occupied by white persons for those
purposes, and in like manner forbidding white persons when the
conditions as to occupancy are reversed, and which bases the interdiction upon color and nothing more, passes the legitimate bounds
of police power and invades the civil right to acquire, enjoy and use

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

property, which is guaranteed in equal measure to all citizens, white
or colored, by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Such a prohibition can not be sustained upon the grounds that, through
race segregation, it serves to diminish miscegenation and promotes
the public peace by averting race hostility and conflict, or that it
prevents deterioration in value of property owned and occupied by
white people; nor does the fact that upon its face it applies impartially to both races relieve it from the vice of discrimination or obviate
the objection that it deprives of property without due process of
law. Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, and Berea College Case, 211
U. S. 45, distinguished.
165 Kentucky, 559, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Clayton B. Blakey and Mr. Moorfield Storey, with
whom Mr. Harold S. Davis was on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error:
The plaintiff's rights are directly involved and the court
has jurisdiction. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 39. He
does not complain of discrimination against the colored
race or seek to enforce their rights, but seeks to enforce a
contract-a property right-on the ground that the ordinance violates rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment and therefore is no bar to performance of the contract.
It is manifest that the effect of the ordinance is to cause
continual controversy as to whether particular houses
may be occupied by white or colored persons; it does not
prevent the two races from living in close propinquity,
and in many cases this condition is perpetuated rather
than eliminated; conditions existing at the time of its
passage are not disturbed. It deprives an owner of the
right to live upon his own land, or to sell or lease it to
any person who may wish to buy or hire, thereby causing
depreciation in value. It is apparent therefore that it
does not accomplish its declared purpose, "to prevent
conflict and ill-feeling between the white and colored

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

245 U. S.

races" and "to preserve the public peace." There is
nothing in the conduct of the negro which is the foundation of the ordinance, but simply the prejudice of race and
color. Its predominant purpose was to place the negro,
however industrious, thrifty and well-educated, in as
inferior a position as possible with respect to his right of
residence, and to violate the spirit of the Fourteenth
Amendment without transgressing the letter.
The general presumption is that a law is enacted in good
faith for the purpose declared, but where, as in this case, it
is obvious that the real purpose was very different, the
courts will determine the purpose from the natural and
legal effect of the language employed when put into operation. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, 64; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S.
347, 364; Austin v. Murray, 16 Pick. 121.
The constitutional guaranty of equal protection, without discrimination on account of color, race, religion, etc.,
includes "the right to acquire and possess property of
every kind," Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 381;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 76; to dispose of it and
to live upon one's own land. The ordinance under review
prevents the plaintiff from selling his property for the only
use to which it can be put. If he cannot sell to a colored
person, he cannot sell at all, for the lot is so situated with
reference to other colored men's residences that no white
man would buy it. It thus destroys, without due process
of law, fundamental rights attached by the law to ownership of property; it destroys without compensation rights
which had become vested before it took effect. It differs
only in degree from the ordinances held void in Slate v.
Gurry, 121 Maryland, 534; State v. Darnell, 166 N. Car.
300; and Carey v. Atlanta, 143 Georgia, 192.
The ordinance also abridges the privileges and immunities guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, and deprives those affected of the equal protection of the laws.

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 70-72; Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 344; Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U. S. 303, 306; Washington, Alexandria & Georgetown
R. R. Co. v. Brown, 17 Wall. 445; State v. Darnell, 166 N.
Car. 300, 302, 303. It forbids, under penalty of criminal
proceedings, an owner of land in many parts of the city to
live thereon if he happens to be a negro, although he would
be free to do so if he were white. This inequality is not
removed by forbidding white owners to live on their own
land in other parts of the city, for the Constitution cannot
be satisfied by any such offsetting of inequalities. A plainer
case of racial discrimination cannot well be imagined.
The cases upholding laws providing for separate railroad accommodations are inapplicable here, for if equal
facilities be furnished and the rates are reasonable and
nondiscriminatory the carrier may determine what vehicle
the passenger shall occupy. Chiles v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 71; West Chester & PhiladelphiaR. R. Co.
v. Miles, 55 Pa. St. 209; The Sue, 22 Fed. Rep. 843. No
right otherwise existing is impaired and hence such statutes are not within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment. See McCabe v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co., 235 U. S. 151.
The cases of public schools are even more remote from
that under consideration. The States are not bound to
provide schools for anybody. Statutes regulating attendance at schools do not cut down rights previously recognized, but grant privileges which would not otherwise
exist. If, therefore, the privileges granted to white and to
colored children are in general similar, there can be no
complaint. It is true that a statute requiring segregation
in private schools was sustained in the Berea College Case,
211 U. S. 45, but there the statute was construed as an
amendment to the defendant's charter. If defendant had
been an individual, it is plain that the statute must have
been declared void. See dissenting opinion, p. 68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

245 U. S.

The cases upholding statutes against miscegenation are
also irrelevant, since marriage is a matter of status in
which the interests of the State are vitally concerned.
Such statutes are equal in their operation since they impose no penalty upon the members of one race for doing
that which is lawful for members of the other race. Pace
v. Alabama, 106 U. S. 583.
The ordinance cannot be justified as an exercise of the
police power. Like any other law police regulations are
subject to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v.
Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56, 69; Geiger-Jones Co. v. Turner,
230 Fed. Rep. 233, 244, 245; and a regulation which forbids citizens of one color to do acts which those of another
color are permitted to do does not afford equal protection
of the laws. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27, 31; Opinion of the Justices, 207 Massachusetts,
601, 605; Ah Kow v. Nunan, 5 Sawy. 552. The ordinance
cannot be justified as a measure to protect property
rights, since it is designed to protect the rights only of a
certain class; or as a measure to prevent conflict between
the races, since the means adopted are beyond the constitutional power of the State to employ. If such legislation can be sustained, there is no limit to possible discrimination between citizens. An attempt to segregate Irish
from Jews, foreign from native citizens, Catholics from
Protestants, would be fully as justifiable in communities
where there is feeling between them.
Mr. Stuart Chevalier and Mr. Pendleton Beckley for defendant in error:
The ordinance is fair and equal on its face and effects
no discrimination for or against either race. It is a valid
police regulation, enacted in good faith, and clearly and
fairly designed to accomplish its declared purpose. It

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

does not interfere with the ownership but merely regulates
the occupancy of property. The right of an owner to
occupy his own property, previously acquired, is expressly
secured by § 4, so that every constitutional objection
that it is an undue interference with property rights is
removed.
The court will not declare invalid a police regulation
unless it clearly appears from the law itself, or from facts
of which the court may take judicial notice, that it violates constitutional guaranties; whether the legislation
is wise, expedient or necessary, or the best calculated to
promote its object, is a legislative and not a judicial question. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. McGuire,
219 U. S. 568, 569; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 547,
548; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 575, 580; Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.
678; Tenement House Department v. Moeschen, 179 N. Y.
325; 203 U. S. 583; Hyman v. Boldrick, 153 Kentucky,
77, 79; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342,
357, 366; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369, 385; Cusack Co.
v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 530.
Legislation segregating the white and colored races
has universally been recognized by the courts as a constitutional exercise of the police power. Thus regulations
requiring separate railroad accommodations, laws establishing separate schools, and laws against miscegenation
have been sustained. Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537,
545; Chiles v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 71;
West Chester & PhiladelphiaR. R. Co. v. Miles, 55 Pa. St.
209; Roberts v. City of Boston, 5 Cush. 198; People v. Gallagher, 93 N. Y. 438; Berea College Case, 123 Kentucky,
209; 211 U. S. 45. The same reasons, constitutional and
practical, which justify the segregation of the races in
these instances apply with redoubled force here. Unlike
the ordinance declared invalid in Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, this ordinance operates equally upon both

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

245 U. S.

classes, and does not vest the municipal authorities with
the arbitrary power in its enforcement to discriminate
against any particular class.
The Constitution does not prohibit a State from abridging under its police power privileges and immunities of
citizens of the State; the fact that privileges thereby
regulated may not in fact be equal or identical does not
amount to a denial of equal protection of the laws; nor
does the Constitution guarantee social or economic equality. The "privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States" are in nowise affected or abridged by legislation of this character. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall.
36; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 96; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S. 394;
Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347; Myers v. Anderson,
238 U. S. 368; Ex parte Kinney, 3 Hughes, 9; Cummings
v. County Board of Education, 175 U. S. 528; People v.
Gallagher, 93 N. Y. 438; Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703. Every police regulation necessarily restrains, limits or destroys certain personal or property rights, or both. This does not make
the law unequal in the legal sense, as the inequalities arise
from matters with which the law has no concern, such as
geographical location, economic or educational condition,
etc. The investigation of these matters is for the legislative, not the judicial, determination. Hadacheck v.
Los Angeles, 239 U. S. 394, 413. If neither race is denied
any privilege in the cases of schools, coaches, or marriage,
there is no denial of an advantage or privilege here. The
objection that the ordinance limits the negroes to the
"undesirable" sections of the city, therefore, does not go
to the validity of the ordinance. But in fact, it neither
restricts the negroes to the places where they are now
living nor to the undesirable sections. There is nothing
in the law to prevent the indefinite expansion of the
present negro neighborhoods or the building up of new

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

negro sections. The improvement of the negro's condition is limited only by his own character and efforts.
The use of property and the liberty of contract are subject to reasonable police regulations, and their enforcement does not deprive a person of property without due
process of law. Slaughter House Cases, supra; Northwestern FertilizingCo. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Mugler
v.' Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Tenement House Department v.
Moeschen, 179 N. Y. 325; 203 U. S. 583; O'Bryan v. Highland Apartment Co., 128 Kentucky, 282; Welch v. Swasey,
214 U. S. 91. But the present ordinance, far from impairing such rights, will have the effect of protecting property
from the most serious and destructive results.
The objection that segregation laws impair property
values and prevent individuals from living where they
please is fully answered by this court in L'Hote v. New
Orleans, 177 U. S. 587. The injury is merely incidental
to the city's right to segregate and does not warrant the
overthrow of police regulations.
Police regulations prohibiting the carrying on in defined
areas of certain industries, lawful in themselves, having
for their object the protection, enjoyment and stability
of the home, have frequently been sustained, even though
discriminating in favor of persons engaged in the same
industry in other parts of the city. Hadacheck v. Los
Angeles, 239 U. S. 394; Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S.
171; Fischerv. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361; Schefe v. St. Louis,
194 U. S. 373; Ex parte Quong Wo, 118 Pac. Rep. 714;
Ex parte Montgomery, 125 Pac. Rep. 107; People v. Ericsson, 105 N. E. Rep. 315. So with respect to regulations
prohibiting the erection of tall buildings, Welch v. Swasey,
214 U. S. 91; and the erection in residential sections of
billboards. Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 108 N. E. Rep. 340.
The fact that the ordinance interferes with the jus
disponendi or restricts the right of the individual to contract with reference to his property is no valid objection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

245 U. S.

These rights are subject to the police power, provided its
exercise is not so arbitrary as to deny due process. Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86; Berea College Case, 211
U. S. 45; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583.
The ordinance is not discriminatory because it is prospective only or because it is not as drastic as it might be
made. Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91; L'Hote v. New
Orleans, 177 U. S. 587; Rideout v. Knox, 148 Massachusetts, 368.
A sufficient answer to the contention that if this law is
upheld there is no limit to the extremes to which such legislation might ultimately extend, e. g., separation of natives from aliens, Catholics from Protestants, etc., is
found in the majority opinion in Plessy v. Ferguson, 163
U. S. 550.
The right to enact laws providing for reasonable residential segregation, similar to that under consideration,
has been sanctioned by the courts of other States. Hopkins v. City of Richmond, 117 Virginia, 692. In State v.
Curry, 121 Maryland, 534, and Carey v. Atlanta, 143
Georgia, 192, the right was recognized; and the reason for
not upholding the ordinances involved was that they did
not protect vested rights. The ordinance in the Carey
Case also contained the absurd provision that a person
of one color occupying a house in a mixed block could
object to one of another color moving next door to him.
In State v. Darnell, 166 N. Car. 300, the ordinance was
also held open to the objection that it impaired vested
rights, but that case turned principally upon the extent
of the charter powers of the town of Winston, N. C., the
court expressly refraining from passing upon the power of
the State to authorize the ordinance.
Mr. S. S. Field, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of
the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore as amicus curice.

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. Ashbie Hawkins, by leave of court, filed a brief
on behalf of the Baltimore Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People as amicus
curie.
Mr. Frederick W. Lehmann and Mr. Wells H. Blodgett,
by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Alfred E. Cohen, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amicus curice
Mr. Chilton Atkinson, by leave of court, filed a brief
on behalf of the United Welfare Association of St. Louis as
amicus curice.
Mr. H. R. Pollard, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the City of Richmond, Virginia, as amicus
curiae.
Mr. Wells H. Blodgett, Mr. Charles Nagel, Mr. James A.
Seddon, Mr. Selden P. Spencer, Mr. Sidney F. Andrews,
Mr. W. L. Sturdevant, Mr. Percy Werner, Mr. Everett W.
Pattison and Mr. Joseph Wheless, by leave of court, filed
a brief as amici curie.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Buchanan, plaintiff in error, brought an action in the
Chancery Branch of Jefferson Circuit Court of Kentucky
for the specific performance of a contract for the sale of
certain real estate situated in the City of Louisville at the
corner of 37th Street and Pflanz Avenue. The offer in
writing to purchase the property contained a proviso:
"It is understood that I am purchasing the above property for the purpose of having erected thereon a house
which I propose to make my residence, and it is a distinct

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

part of this agreement that I shall not be required to
accept a deed to the above property or to pay for said
property unless I have the right under the laws of the
State of Kentucky and the City of Louisville to occupy
said property as a residence." This offer was accepted
by the plaintiff.
To the action for specific performance the defendant
by way of answer set up the condition above set forth,
that he is a colored person, and that on the block of which
the lot in controversy is a part there are ten residences,
eight of which at the time of the making of the contract
were occupied by white people, and only two (those nearest the lot in question) were occupied by colored people,
and that under and by virtue of the ordinance of the City
of Louisville, approved May 11, 1914, he would not be
allowed to occupy the lot as a place of residence.
In reply to this answer the plaintiff set up, among
other things, that the ordinance was in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and hence no defense to the action for specific
performance of the contract.
In the court of original jurisdiction in Kentucky, and
in the Court of Appeals of that State, the case was made
to turn upon the constitutional validity of the ordinance.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, 165 Kentucky, 559,
held the ordinance valid and of itself a complete defense
to the action.
The title of the ordinance is: "An ordinance to prevent
conflict and ill-feeling between the white and colored races
in the City of Louisville, and to preserve the public
peace and promote the general welfare by making reasonable provisions requiring, as far as practicable, the use of
separate blocks for residences, places of abode and places
of assembly by white and colored people respectively."
By the first section of the ordinance it is made unlawful
for any colored person to move into and occupy as a

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

residence, place of abode, or to establish and maintain
as a place of public assembly any house upon any block
upon which a greater number of houses are occupied as
residences, places of abode, or places of public assembly
by white people than are occupied as residences, places of
abode, or places of public assembly by colored people.
Section 2 provides that it shall be unlawful for any
white person to move into and occupy as a residence,
place of abode, or to establish and maintain as a place of
public assembly any house upon any block upon which a
greater number of houses are occupied as residences,
places of abode or places of public assembly by colored
people than are occupied as residences, places of abode or
places of public assembly by white people.
Section 4 provides that nothing in the ordinance shall
affect the location of residences, places of abode or places
of assembly made previous to its approval; that nothing
contained therein shall be construed so as to prevent the
occupancy of residences, places of abode or places of
assembly by white or colored servants or employees of
occupants of such residences, places of abode or places of
public assembly on the block on which they are so employed, and that nothing therein contained shall be construed to prevent any person who, at the date of the passage of the ordinance, shall have acquired or possessed
the right to occupy any building as a residence, place of
abode or place of assembly from exercising such a right;
that nothing contained in the ordinance shall prevent
the owner of any building, who when the ordinance became effective, leased, rented, or occupied it as a residence, place of abode or place of public assembly for
colored persons, from continuing to rent, lease or occupy
such residence, place of abode or place of assembly for
such persons, if the owner shall so desire; but if such
house should, after the passage of the ordinance, be at
any time leased, rented or occupied as a residence, place

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of abode or place of assembly for white persons, it shall
not thereafter be used for colored persons, if such occupation would then be a violation of section one of the ordinance; that nothing contained in the ordinance shall prevent the owner of any building, who when the ordinance
became effective leased, rented or occupied it as a residence, place of abode, or place of assembly for white
persons from continuing to rent, lease or occupy such
residence, place of abode or place of assembly for such
purpose, if the owner shall so desire, but if such house
should, after the passage of the ordinance, be at any time
leased, rented or occupied as a residence, place of abode
or place of assembly for colored persons, then it shall not
thereafter be used fQr white persons, if such occupation
would then be a violation of section two thereof.
The ordinance contains other sections and a violation
of its provisions is made an offense.
The assignments of error in this court attack the ordinance upon the ground that it violates the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in
that it abridges the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States to acquire and enjoy property, takes
property without due process of law, and denies equal
protection of the laws.
The objection is made that this writ of error should be
dismissed because the alleged denial of constitutional
rights involves only the rights of colored persons, and
the plaintiff in error is a white person. This court has
frequently held that while an unconstitutional act is no
law, attacks upon the validity of laws can only be entertained when made by those whose rights are directly affected by the law or ordinance in question. Only such
persons, it has been settled, can be heard to attack the
constitutionality of the law or ordinance. But this case
does not run counter to that principle.
The property here involved was sold by the plaintiff

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

in error, a white man, on the terms stated, to a colored
man; the action for specific performance was entertained
in the court below, and in both courts the plaintiff's right
to have the contract enforced was denied solely because
of the effect of the ordinance making it illegal for a colored
person to occupy the lot sold. But for the ordinance the
state courts would have enforced the contract, and the
defendant would have been compelled to pay the purchase price and take a conveyance of the premises. The
right of the plaintiff in error to sell his property was directly involved and necessarily impaired because it was
held in effect that he could not sell the lot to a person
of color who was willing and ready to acquire the property,
and had obligated himself to take it. This case does not
come within the class wherein this court has held that
where one seeks to avoid the enforcement of a law or
ordinance he must present a grievance of his own, and
not rest the attack upon the alleged violation of another's
rights. In this case the property rights of the plaintiff
in error are directly and necessarily involved. See Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 38.
We pass then to a consideration of the case upon its
merits. Thi&ordinance prevents the occupancy of a lot
in the City of Louisville by a person of color in a block
where the greater number of resideftces are occupied by
white persons; where such a majority exists colored persons are excluded. This interdiction is based wholly
upon color; simply that and nothing more. In effect,
premises situated as are those in question in the so-called
white block are effectively debarred from sale to persons
of color, because if sold they cannot be occupied by the
purchaser nor by him sold to another of the same color.
This drastic measure is sought to be justified under the
authority of the State in the exercise of the police power.
It is said such legislation tends to promote the public
peace by preventing racial conflicts; that it tends to main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

tain racial purity; that it prevents the deterioration of
property owned and occupied by white people, which
deterioration, it is contended, is sure to follow the occupancy of adjacent premises by persons of color.
The authority of the State to pass laws in the exercise
of the police power, having for their object the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare is very broad
as has been affirmed in numerous and recent decisions
of this court. Furthermore, the exercise of this power,
embracing nearly all legislation of a local character, is
not to be interfered with by the courts where it is within
the scope of legislative authority and the means adopted
reasonably tend to accomplish a lawful purpose. But it is
equally well established that the police power, broad as
it is, cannot justify the passage of a law or ordinance
which runs counter to the limitations of the Federal
Constitution; that principle has been so frequently affirmed in this court that we need not stop to cite the cases.
The Federal Constitution and laws passed within its
authority are by the express terms of that instrument
made the supreme law of the land. The Fourteenth
Amendment protects life, liberty, and property from invasion by the States without due process o law. Property is more than the mere thing which a person owns.
It is elementary thdt it includes the right to acquire,
use, and dispose of it. The Constitution protects these
essential attributes of property. Holden v. Hardy, 169
U. S. 366, 391. Property consists of the free use, enjoyment, and disposal of a person's acquisitions without
control or diminution save by the law of the land. 1
Blackstone's Commentaries (Cooley's Ed.), 127.
True it is that dominion over property springing from
ownership is not absolute and unqualified. The disposition and use of property may be controlled in the exercise of the police power in the interest of the public health,
convenience, or welfare. Harmful occupations may be

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

controlled and regulated. Legitimate business may also
be regulated in the interest of the public. Certain uses
of property may be confined to portions of the municipality other than the resident district, such as livery stables,
brickyards and the like, because of the impairment of
the health and comfort of the occupants of neighboring
property. Many illustrations might be given from the
decisions of this court, and other courts, of this principle,
but these cases do not touch the one at bar.
The concrete question here is: May the occupancy,
and, necessarily, the purchase and sale of property of
which occupancy is an incident, be inhibited by the States,
or by one of its municipalities, solely because of the color
of the proposed occupant of the premises? That one
may dispose of his property, subject only to the control
of lawful enactments curtailing that right in the public
interest, must be conceded. The question now presented
makes it pertinent to enquire into the constitutional right
of the white man to sell his property to a colored man,
having in view the legal status of the purchaser and occupant.
Following the Civil War certain amendments to the
Federal Constitution were adopted, which have become
an integral part of that instrument, equally binding upon
all the States and fixing certain fundamental rights which
all are bound to respect. The Thirteenth Amendment
abolished slavery in the United States and in all places
subject to their jurisdiction, and gave Congress power
to enforce the Amendment by appropriate legislation.
The Fourteenth Amendment made all persons born or
naturalized in the United States citizens of the United
States and of the States in which they reside, and provided that no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States, and that no State shall deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of law, nor deny to any person the equal protection of the
laws.
The effect of these Amendments was first dealt with
by this court in The Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
The reasons for the adoption of the Amendments were
elaborately considered by a court familiar with the times
in which the necessity for the Amendments arose and with
the circumstances which impelled their adoption. In
that case Mr. Justice Miller, who spoke for the majority,
pointed out that the colored race, having been freed from
slavery by the Thirteenth Amendment, was raised to the
dignity of citizenship and equality of civil rights by the
Fourteenth Amendment, and the States were prohibited
from abridging the privileges and immunities of such
citizens, or depriving any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. While a principal purpose of the latter Amendment was to protect persons of
color, the broad language used was deemed sufficient
to protect all persons, white or black, against discriminatory legislation by the States. This is now the settled
law. In many of the cases since arising the question of
color has not been involved and the cases have been decided upon alleged violations of civil or property rights
irrespective of the race or color of the complainant. In
The Slaughter House Cases it was recognized that the
chief inducement to the passage of the Amendment was
the desire to extend federal protection to the recently
emancipated race from unfriendly and discriminating
legislation by the States.
In Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, this court
held that a colored person charged with an offense was
denied due process of law by a statute which prevented
colored men from sitting on the jury which tried him.
Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for the court, again reviewed
the history of the Amendments, and among other things,
in speaking of the Fourteenth Amendment, said:

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

"It [the Fourteenth Amendment] was designed to
assure to the colored race the enjoyment of all the civil
rights that under the law are enjoyed by white persons,
and to give to that race the protection of the general
government, in that enjoyment, whenever it should be
denied by the States. It not only gave citizenship and
the privileges of citizenship to persons of color, but it

denied to any State the power to withhold from them
the equal protection of the laws, and authorized Congress
to enforce its provisions by appropriate legislation.
It ordains that no State shall make or enforce any laws
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States.
.
It ordains that no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law, or deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. What is
this but declaring that the law in the States shall be the
same for the black as for the white; that all persons,
whether colored or white, shall stand equal before the
laws of the States, and, in regard to the colored race,
for whose protection the amendment was primarily designed, that no discrimination shall be made against them
by law because of their color? .
"The Fourteenth Amendment makes no attempt to
enumerate the rights it designed to protect. It speaks in
general terms, and those are as comprehensive as possible.
Its language is prohibitory; but every prohibition implies
the existence of rights and immunities, prominent among
which is an immunity from inequality of legal protection,
either for life, liberty, or property. Any State action
that denies this immunity to a colored man is in conflict
with the Constitution."
Again this court in Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 347,
speaking of the Fourteenth Amendment, said:
"Whoever, by virtue of public position under a State
government, deprives another of property, life, or liberty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

without due process of law, or denies or takes away the
equal protection of the laws, violates the constitutional
inhibition; and as he acts in the name and for the State,
and is clothed with the State's power, his act is that of
the State."
In giving legislative aid to these constitutional provisions Congress enacted in 1866, c. 31, § 1, 14 Stat. 27,
[Rev. Stats., § 1978] that:
"All citizens of the United States shall have the same
right in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white
citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and
convey real and personal property."
And in 1870, by c. 114, § 16, 16 Stat. 144 [Rev. Stats.,
§ 1977] that:
"All persons within the jurisdiction of the United
States shall have the same right in every State and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties,
give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of all
laws and proceedings for the security of persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject
to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses and
exactions of every kind, and no other."
In the face of these constitutional and statutory provisions, can a white man be denied, consistently with
due process of law, the right to dispose of his property
to a purchaser by prohibiting the occupation of it for the
sole reason that the purchaser is a person of color intending
to occupy the premises as a place of residence?
The statute of 1866, originally passed under sanction
of the Thirteenth Amendment, 14 Stat. 27, and practically reenacted after the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment, 16 Stat. 144, expressly provided that all
citizens of the United States in any State shall have the
same right to purchase property as is enjoyed by white
citizens. Colored persons are citizens of the United States
and have the right to purchase property and enjoy and

BUCHANAN v. WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

use the same without laws discriminating against them
solely on account of color. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485,
508. These enactments did not deal with the social
rights of men, but with those fundamental rights in property which it was intended to secure upon the same terms
to citizens of every race and color. Civil Rights Cases,
109 U. S. 3, 22. The Fourteenth Amendment and these
statutes enacted in furtherance of its purpose operate to
qualify and entitle a colored man to acquire property
without state legislation discriminating against him
solely because of color.
The defendant in error insists that Plessy v. Ferguson,
163 U. S. 537, is controlling in principle in favor of the
judgment of the court below. In that case this court
held that a provision of a statute of Louisiana requiring
railway companies carrying passengers to provide in their
coaches equal but separate accommodations for the white
and colored races did not run counter to the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment. It is to be observed that
in that case there was no attempt to deprive persons of
color of transportation in the coaches of the public carrier,
and the express requirements were for equal though
separate accommodations for the white and colored races.
In Plessy v. Ferguson, classification of accommodation was
permitted upon the basis of equality for both races.
In the Berea College Case, 211 U. S. 45, a state statute
was sustained in the courts of Kentucky, which, while
permitting the education of white persons and negroes
in different localities by the same incorporated institution,
prohibited their attendance at the same place, and in
this court the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky was affirmed solely upon the reserved authority
of the legislature of Kentucky to alter, amend, or repeal
charters of its own corporations, and the question here
involved was neither discussed nor decided.
In Carey v. City of Atlanta, 143 Georgia, 192, the Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

preme Court of Georgia, holding an ordinance, similar
in principle to the one herein involved, to be invalid,
dealt with Plessy v. Ferguson, and The Berea College
Case, in language so apposite that we quote a portion
of it:
"In each instance the complaining person was afforded
the opportunity to ride, or to attend institutions of learning, or afforded the thing of whatever nature to which
in the particular case he was entitled. The most that was
done was to require him as a member of a class to conform
with reasonable rules in regard to the separation of the
races. In none of them was he denied the right to use,
control, or dispose of his property, as in this case. Property of a person, whether as a member of a class or as an
individual, cannot be taken without due process of law.
In the recent case of McCabe v. Atchison &c. Ry. Co.,
235 U. S. 151, where the court had under consideration
a statute which allowed railroad companies to furnish
dining-cars for white people and to refuse to furnish
dining-cars altogether for colored persons, this language
was used in reference to the contentions of the attorneygeneral: 'This argument with respect to volume of traffic
seems to us to be without merit. It makes the constitutional right depend upon the number of persons who may
be discriminated against, whereas the essence of the constitutional right is that it is a personal one.' .
"The effect of the ordinance under consideration was
not merely to regulate a business or the like, but was to
destroy the right of the individual to acquire, enjoy, and
dispose of his property. Being of this character, it was
void as being opposed to the due-process clause of the
constitution."
That there exists a serious and difficult problem arising
from a feeling of race hostility which the law is powerless
to control, and to which it must give a measure of consideration, may be freely admitted. But its solution

BUCHANAN v.WARLEY.
60.

Opinion of the Court.

cannot be promoted by depriving citizens of their constitutional rights and privileges.
As we have seen, this court has held laws valid which
separated the races on the basis of equal accommodations
in public conveyances, and courts of high authority have
held enactments lawful which provide for separation in
the public schools of white and colored pupils where equal
privileges axe given. But in view of the rights secured
by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution such legislation must have its limitations, and cannot
be sustained where the exercise of authority exceeds the
restraints of the Constitution. We think these limitations
are exceeded in laws and ordinances of the character
now before us.
It is the purpose of such enactments, and, it is frankly
avowed it will be their ultimate effect, to require by law,
at least in residential districts, the compulsory separation of the races on account of color. Such action is said
to be essential to the maintenance of the purity of the
races, although it is to be noted in the ordinance under
consideration that the employment of colored servants
in white families is permitted, and nearby residences of
colored persons not coming within the blocks, as defined
in the ordinance, are not prohibited.
The case presented does not deal with an attempt to
prohibit the amalgamation of the races. The right which
the ordinance annulled was the civil right of a white man
to dispose of his property if he saw fit to do so to a person
of color and of a colored person to make such disposition
to a white person.
It is urged that this proposed segregation will promote
the public peace by preventing race conflicts. Desirable
as this is, and important as is the preservation of the pub-

lic peace, this aim cannot be accomplished by laws or
ordinances which deny rights created or protected by the
Federal Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

It is said that such acquisitions by colored persons
depreciate property owned in the neighborhood by white
persons. But property may be acquired by undesirable
white neighbors or put to disagreeable though lawful
uses with like results.
We think this attempt to prevent the alienation of the
property in question to a person of color was not a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State, and is in
direct violation of the fundamental law enacted in the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution preventing
state interference with property rights except by due
process of law. That being the case the ordinance cannot
stand. Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429; Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S. 606, 609.
Reaching this conclusion it follows that the judgment
of the Kentucky Court of Appeals must be reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

EX PARTE PARK & TILFORD, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 24.

Original. Argued October 15, 16, 1917.-Rule discharged
November 5, 1917.

Mandamus will not issue from this court to compel a subordinate
court to make a particular decision. The jurisdiction of this court
in that regard is no greater in a case in which the lower court's decision is by law made final than in those in which decisions are
reviewable in the ordinary ways.
The Court of Customs Appeals decided that under the last clause of
paragraph I, § 3, of the Tariff Act of 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 184,
the collector was required to assess certain goods upon their entered

