OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

campaign purposes in the State of Tennessee and charged
on the books of the carrier to operating expenses or construction account; and, 2nd, whether he had personal
knowledge of funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad
used for campaign purposes in the State of Kentucky and
charged on the books of the carrier to construction account or operating expenses.
It will be observed that the questions are limited, as
some of the questions in No. 337 were, to the allocation
upon the books of the company of the funds expended,
if any. They are within the reasoning of the opinion in
No. 337, and on the authority of that case the order is
Affirmed.

JONES v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 340.

Argued October 3, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

Decided on the-authority of Smith v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
ante, 33.

Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward S. Jouett, with whom Mr. Helm Bruce and
Mr. Henry L. Stone were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was submitted with Nos. 337 and 339, ante, 33
and 47. Like them it is a proceeding to compel appellant to

JONES v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
48.

Opinion of the Court.

answer certain questions asked him by the Interstate Commerce Commission. It was based on a petition like thepetitions in those cases to which there was a like reply.
The court entered an order requiring appellant to answer the following questions asked by counsel for the
Commission:
"I will ask you if you distributed in the State of Alabama on behalf of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad,
campaign funds favoring the election of a certain candidate?
"I show you Ledger H, folio 454, from the records of
the Louisville & Nashville Railroad, showing certain
vouchers sent you in Alabama for various amounts, and
will ask you how you expended the money represented
by these vouchers, taking the first voucher as a beginning.
"I will ask you whether or not you have personal knowledge of funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad and
of the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway used
to the extent of thousands of dollars for political campaign purposes in the State of Alabama.
"I will ask you do you know of any campaign funds
being expended by the Louisville & Nashville Railroad
and the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway in
the State of Alabama through any attorney under a subterfuge of paying the attorney a bill for professional services?
"Do you know of any funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad expended in the State of Alabama for
political purposes and charged on the books of the carrier
to operating expense?
"I will ask you if you know of any funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad or the Nashville, Chattanooga
& St. Louis Railway expended in the State of Alabama for
political purposes and charged on the books of these carriers or on the books of either carrier to construction?

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

245 U. S.

"I will ask you if you have any knowledge of funds of
the Louisville & Nashville Railroad or the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway used for political campaign purposes in the State of Tennessee?
"Do you know of any funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad expended in the State of Tennessee for
political campaign purposes and charged on the books of
that carrier to operating expense or construction account?"
The questions are similar to those passed on in the other
two cases, and the order is
Aflirmed.

COHEN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF SAMUELS, v. SAMUELS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 359.

Argued October 17, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

A policy of insurance held by a bankrupt, which has a cash surrender
value at the time of the adjudication, becomes an asset, to the extent
of such value, in the trustee, under ยง 70-a of the Bankruptcy Act,
even when the policy is payable to a beneficiary other than the
bankrupt, his estate or personal representatives, if the bankrupt
has reserved absolute power to change the beneficiary.
237 Fed. Rep. 796, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence B. Cohen, with whom Mr. Adolph Boskowitz was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel Sturtz for respondent.

