OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

strict letter of the law but in disregard of its spirit. Although classed as a legal remedy, its issuance is largely
controlled by equitable principles. 1 The relator having
itself only an equity seeks the aid of the court to clothe
it with the legal title as against the United States, which
now holds both the legal title and the equity to have set
aside an allotment certificate secured by fraud. A writ
of mandamus will not be granted for such a purpose. See
Turner v. Fisher, 222 U. S. 204. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

HULL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF PALMER,
v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 66.

Argued November 19, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A New York testator bequeathed a fund in trust to pay the income to
his son during life, with remainder over to others, subject to the condition that the principal also be paid to the son whenever he became
able to pay his just debts and liabilities from other resources-a condition recognized as valid by the law of New York. The son secured
his discharge in bankruptcy, whereupon the principal was paid over
to him by order of the Surrogate Court. Held, that no right to the
principal passed to his trustee in bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy
Act, ยง 70a (5).
155 App. Div. 636; 213 N. Y. 315, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
1 People ex rel. Wood v. Assessors, 137 N. Y. 201; People ex rel. Durant
Land Co. v. Jeroloman, 139 N. Y. 14; Commonwealth ex rel. Van Dyke v.
Henry, 49 Pa. St. 530; Indiana Road Machine Co. v. Keeney, 147 Mich.
184; United States ex rel. McManus v. Fisher,39 App. D. C. 176, 181.

HULL v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST CO.
312.

313

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Walter S. Heilborn, with whom Mr. David J., Gallert
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederick Geller, with whom Mr. Edward H. Blanc
was on the brief, for Farmers' Loan & Trust Company.
Mr. Henry B. Twombly, with whom Mr. GerritSmith was
on the brief, for Palmer.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the
court.
Charles Palmer, of New York City, by will executed
shortly before his death, bequeathed to the Farmers' Loan
& Trust Company the sum of $50,000, in trust, to pay the
income to his son Francis, during his life, with a remainder
over to others, subject to the "wish . . . that
my said son shall have the principal of said trust fund
whenever he shall become financially solvent and able to
pay all his just debts and liabilities from resources other
than the principal of this trust fund."
Promptly after probate of the will, Francis filed a
voluntary petition in bankruptcy, and in due time received his discharge. Then the Trust Company instituted
proceedings in the Surrogate Court for a judicial settlement of the estate; and, the court adjudging that Francis
had become entitled to the principal of the trust fund
(65 Misc. N. Y. 418), it was paid over to him. Later, the
trustee in bankruptcy who had not been a party to proceedings in the Surrogate Court, brought suit in the Supreme Court of New York against the Trust Company
and Francis to recover the principal. He claimed that the
right to it had passed to him under ยง 70a (5) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, and that the-whole
fund was required to satisfy the balance due on debts
proved against the bankrupt estate and the expenses of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

administration. No claim was asserted against the income of the trust fund. A complaint setting forth these
facts was dismissed on demurrer; and the judgment entered by the trial court was affirmed both by the Appellate
Division (155 App. Div. 636) and by the Court of Appeals
(213 N. Y. 315). The case comes here on writ of error.
Plaintiff asserts that the case presents this federal question: Does a contingent interest in the principal of personal property assignable by the bankrupt prior to the
filing of the petition necessarily pass to his trustee in
bankruptcy? And, to sustain his claim to recovery, he
contends, that under the law of New York (1) the words
used by the testator create a trust; (2) vesting in the
beneficiary a contingent interest in personal property;
(3) which is an expectant estate; (4) assignable by him;
and (5) that, in view of the Surrogate's decision and
the action thereon, the defendants are estopped from
denying that the contingency requiring payment of the
principal had arisen. Plaintiff contends also that, under
the federal law, (6) this assignable estate in expectancy
passed to the trustee when Francis was adjudged bankrupt, and (7) the trustee, as holder of the estate, became
entitled to the principal when the discharge rendered
Francis solvent.
We need not enquire whether the several propositions
of state and federal law which underlie this contention
are correct. This is not a case where a testator seeks to
bequeath property which shall be free from liability for
the beneficiary's debts. Ullman v. Cameron, 186 N. Y.
339, 345. Here the testator has merely prescribed the
condition on which he will make a gift of the principal.
Under the law of New York he had the right to provide, in
terms, that such payment of the principal should be made,
only if and when Francis should have received in bankruptcy a discharge from his debts and that no part of the
fund should go to his trustee in bankruptcy. The lan-

BURTON v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
312.

315

Counsel for Parties.

guage used by the testator is broader in scope, but manifests quite as clearly, his intention that the principal shall
not be paid over under circumstances which would result
in any part of it being applied in satisfying debts previously incurred by Francis. The Bankruptcy Act presents no obstacle to carrying out the testator's intention.
Eaton v. Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Co., 240 U. S. 427.
As the Court of Appeals said: "The nature of the condition
itself determines the controversy." The judgment is
Afflrmed.

BURTON v. NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
HEEREN v. NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 71, 72. Argued November 21, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Article IV, ยง 2, subdivision 2, of the Constitution places no limitation
upon the power of the States to arrest in advance of extradition proceedings; with Rev. Stats., ยง 5278, it deals merely with the conditions
under which one State may demand rendition from another and
under which the alleged fugitive may resist compliance by the State
upon which the demand is made.
147 App. Div. 557; 210 N. Y. 567, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Connell for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Robert A. Kutschboc, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Paulding and Mr. Alex. S. Lyman were on the brief, for
defendant in error.

