OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS ET AL. v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 113.

Submitted January 2, 1918.-Decided January 14, 1918.

Where, in regular course, a passenger train is moved by one company
from one State to a point in another and is there taken charge of
and carried to destination by a second company, local to the second
State, it is manifestly erroneous to hold that its interstate character
is lost because the second company employs new crews and engines
and cannot go beyond the state line.
An order of the Texas Railroad Commission requiring passenger trains
in the State to leave stations on advertised schedule time, and allowing them no more than 30 minutes at origin or points of junction to
make connection with trains of other lines, or 10 minutes more if
at the end of the 30 minutes the connecting trains are in sight, is an
unjustifiable interference with interstate commerce as applied to a
local railroad company in respect of an interstate train which, under
contract, the company receives at a point within the state line from
a connecting company, and forwards (in sections) to its destinations
within the State. The infliction of penalties upon the local corporation, under the local law, for failure to comply with the order, is
beyond the power of the state courts in such a case. So held where,
though the trial court found otherwise, the decisions of the intermediate and supreme courts of the State assumed that there was sufficient accommodation for local traffic independent of the through
train in question-an assumption which this court adopts; and
where the train was received too late to comply.
The suggestion that the order could have been complied with by running an extra train locally, if the interstate train was not on time,
is impractical, and also inadequate in form, since, having exercised
its right to advertise the latter train, the company could not escape
liability for delay of that train by operating another.
The powers of a State over the local business of a local railroad company
do not authorize the imposition of serious, unwarranted and unjust
burdens in respect of its interstate trains.
167 S. W. Rep. 822, reversed.

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. CO. v. TEXAS. 485
484.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alexander H. McKnight, Mr. C. S. Burg, Mr. Joseph
M. Bryson, Mr. Alex. Britton and Mr. Charles C. Huff for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. Luther Nickels, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Texas, for defendant in error:
The order is calculated merely to promote convenience
of the traveling public in Texas. The trains affected are
not used "exclusively for interstate traffic" as in Cleveland,
C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; the order
does not interfere with their operation before they reach
the state line. Even if it did affect their operation in other
States, it would be to prevent delay-to aid commerce.
Conformity to established and publicly advertised schedules substantially promotes the convenience of the traveling public. Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Corp.
Comm., 206 U. S. 1, 22.
Admitting that the order incidentally affects interstate
commerce, it is within the class of reasonable state police
regulations, in the interest of the safety, good order,
convenience and comfort of passengers and the public,
which are not in themselves regulations of interstate
commerce. Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427; Atlantic
Coast Line v. North Carolina Corp. Comm., supra. Such
regulations, being in "aid" of interstate commerce, are
valid. Lake Shore & Michigan So. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285; Mobile County v. Kimball County, 102 U. S.
691.
The running of substitute trains when the regular trains
are late (not required by the order but merely an alternative method whereby the carrier may comply with it)
would not result in discrimination against interstate
passengers, for the regular train, when it arrived, would

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

245 U. S.

necessarily continue its trip south. Nor would the cost
of running such trains result in a burden on interstate
commerce. The effect, if any, is remote, indirect and incidental. So with respect to the imposition of penalties
for violations of the order. The penalties, like ordinary
ad valorem tax levies upon the physical property located in the State, may ultimately result in an increased
burdening of commerce, but this is not a regulation
of it.
The order does not deprive the carrier of its property
without due process of law. The evidence and the findings
of the state courts show that the facilities available for
intrastate traffic, other than trains Nos. 9 and 209, were
wholly inadequate. Extra trains could be required under
the state law. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. State, 169 S. W.
Rep. 385. Since the running of extra trains is due entirely to the voluntary acts of the carrier, no federal question arises under the Fourteenth Amendment. In this
respect the case differs from Atlantic Coast Line v. North
Carolina Corporation Comm., 206 U. S. 1, where the running of an extra train was treated by the Corporation
Commission and the state courts as the most direct and
efficient means of complying with the order. Even if a
federal question does arise, in this feature of the case,
the invalidating facts are not proved. It was neither
alleged nor proved that the running of the extra trains
would entail a pecuniary loss either with respect to the
particular facility or the general revenues of the company.
The record negatives any idea of a loss. Notwithstanding
the Corporation Commission and the state courts in
Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Corp. Comm., supra,
assumed that the operation of the train there in question
would produce a loss, this court sustained the order. And
that case is decisive against the plaintiff in error here.
See also Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262,
277 et seq.

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. CO. v. TEXAS.
484.

487

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusncE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit brought by the State of Texas to recover
penalites for violation of an order of the State Railroad
Commission. This order required passenger trains in
Texas to start from their point of origin and from stations
on the line in accordance with advertised schedule, allowing them not exceeding thirty minutes at origin or points
of junction with other lines to make connection with trains
on such other lines, and not exceeding ten minutes more
if at the end of the thirty minutes the connecting trains
were in sight. There were some other qualifications not
necessary to be stated. The defendant's passenger trains
concerned were numbers 9 and 209, and were parts of a
train, also numbered 9, of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railway, a different corporation, taken charge of by the
defendant at Denison, Texas, about five miles south of the
Texas and Oklahoma state line, under a contract with
the Missouri, Kansas & Texas. In pursuance of this contract they were forwarded via Dallas and Fort Worth to
Hillsboro, thence as one train to Granger and there again divided, the two parts going respectively to Galveston and
San Antonio. There were similar arrangements for trains
to the north. The cars received by the defendant came
from St. Louis and Kansas City, Missouri, uniting at
Parsons, Kansas, and thence proceeding south to Denison. The Court of Civil Appeals at first held that the
movement must be regarded as a continuous" one from
Kansas City and St. Louis, and that the order did not
apply to the train; but on a rehearing decided that as the
defendant took control at Denison with new crews and
engines, and as the defendant could not go beyond the
state line, the movement so far as the defendant was concerned was wholly within the State. Breaches of the order having been proved, it affirmed a judgment imposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

a fine. A writ of error was refused by the Supreme Court
of the State.
The Supreme Court gave up the manifestly untenable
ground taken by the Court of Civil Appeals and recognized that the defendant's trains were instruments of commerce among the States, but it construed the order as applying to them none the less and held it valid as so applied.
The only question with which we have to deal is whether
the State Commission could intermeddle in this way, especially when there was sufficient accommodation for local
traffic independent of 'the through trains. The defendant
in error attempts to open this last matter, because the
opinion of the Court of Civil Appeals in which the fact
was stated was reversed by it for a different reason, and
that of the court of first instance was the other way. But
we regard the decision of the intermediate and the Supreme Court as proceeding pon the assumption that we
have stated and that we see no reason to disturb. Again,
the question is not what the State Commission might require of a road deriving its powers from the State, with
regard to local business, Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 283, but whether the order if applied
to this case would not unlawfully interfere with commerce
among the States.
On its face the order as applied was an interference
with such commerce. It undertook to fix the time allowed
for stops in the course of interstate transit. It was a serious interference, for it made the defendant liable for
an interstate train not starting on schedule time, when
the train did not come into the defendant's bands, from
another company in another State, until too late. This,
as we understand the facts, was the train to which the
advertised schedule applied, and if so, the mere statement
of the result is enough to show that the burden imposed
not only was serious but was unwarranted as well as unjust. The suggestion that compliance with the order

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. OTIS ELEVATOR CO. 489
Syllabus.

484.

could have been secured by having an extra train ready
to run if the regular one was not on time hardly is practical, and is not an adequate answer, even in form. For
the defendant advertised, or at least had the right to advertise, the interstate train, and, if it did so, would not
free itself from liability for a delay on the part of that
train by offering another. We think it plain that this
order was applied in a way that was beyond the power
of the Commission and courts of the State. Seaboard Air
Line Ry. v. Blackwell, 244 U. S.310. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin, 237 U. S.220, 226. South Covington & Cincinnati
Street Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S.537, 548.
Judgment reversed.

GEORGE A. FULLER COMPANY v. OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 128.

Argued January.3, 1918.-Decided January 14, 1918.

Petitioner, having paid the judgment affirmed in George A. Fuller Co. v.
McCloskey, 228 U. S. 194, recovered indemnity from the respondent,
upon the ground that the latter, at the time of the accident, retained
its control over the negligent servant. Held, that, there being suffi-

cient evidence upon that point to warrant the verdict, petitioner's
judgment should be affirmed. Held further, that the adjudication in

the former case did not estop the petitioner upon the issue of primary
responsibility here presented, as it did not determine or involve that
issue, and respondent had been dismissed from that case as codefendant before petitioner's evidence therein was heard; and, further, that such adjudication, had it purported to include that issue,
would not have the force of a precedent, since in the present case
there was evidence, absent in the other, which makes it impossible

