OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

In construing federal statutes enacted under the power
conferred by the commerce clause of the Constitution
the rule is that it should never be held that Congress
intends to supersede or suspend the exercise of the reserved powers of a State, even where that may be done,
unless, and except so far as, its purpose to do so is clearly
manifested. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, 430; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harris, 234 U. S. 412, 419. This being true of an act of Congress, it is obvious that an order of a subordinate agency,
such as the Commission, should not be given precedence
over a state rate statute otherwise valid, unless, and except so far as, it conforms to a high standard of certainty.
We conclude that the uncertainty in this order is such
as to render it inoperative and of no effect as to the intrastate rates, established and maintained under a law
of the State, and therefore that the suits by the carriers
were rightly dismissed on the merits.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

KETCHAM v. BURR ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 114.

Submitted January 2, 1918.-Decided January 14, 1918.

Appellant, having been for a time confined in an asylum as an insane
person after due proceedings in a state probate court, took no appeal
or other proceedings in the state courts, but long after his escape

KETCHAM v. BURR.
510.

Opinion of the Court.

filed this bill against the owner and officials of the asylum, the present
and former judges and registers of the probate court, and others,
to regain certain documents and set aside the inquisition. Held, that
no construction or application of the Constitution was involved,
and hence this court lacked jurisdiction of a direct appeal from the
District Court.
Appeal dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William D. Williams, Mr. Renwick F. H. MacDonald and Mr. Dell H. Thompson for appellant.
Mr. John J. Carton for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Having heard the cause upon bill, answer and replication, the District Court dismissed the bill. In support of this direct appeal it is said that the construction
or application of the Federal Constitution is involved.
Judicial Code, ยง 238.
The defendants are the corporation which owns and
operates Oak Grove asylum in Genesee County, Michigan; the medical director and chief guard of that institution; the present and a former judge, and also the
present and a former register of the Probate Court of
Genesee County; two examining physicians who upon an
inquest held before that court certified complainant's
insanity; and the attorney who represented the petitioner therein.
The bill is a nebulous recital of grievances against
defendants and many others-all alleged to have been
wicked conspirators seeking to deprive appellant of his
liberty and money. It appears that the appellant, a
citizen of Indiana, having effected his escape from an

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

insane asylum in Wisconsin was taken by his family
and friends to Oak Grove for medical care and treatment in May, 1906; and that directly thereafter a petition asking an inquisition concerning his sanity was
duly presented to the Probate Court by the superintendent of that institution as provided by a state statute.
After a hearing he was adjudged insane and committed
for treatment; the right to appeal was not exercised. In
October, 1906, he escaped, and this bill was filed May 11,
1912, without prior application for relief to any court
of the State. It prays (1) that defendants be required
to give an account of and restore to complainant all
writings, letters, documents and papers placed in their
hands in connection with the inquisition, and (2) that the
judge and register of the Probate Court be required to
set aside and hold for naught the pretended inquisition in
insanity and make adequate entry accordingly on the
record.
All equities of the bill are fully denied in the answer;
and the claim that the cause really involves construction or application of the Federal Constitution is without foundation.
We have no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal and
it must be
Dismissed.

