MARTIN v. LANKFORD.
541.

Syllabus.

might be considered as intended for emphasis of the wrongful conduct of Lankford; but they seem to be made more
of than this in the argument of counsel, and we are left in
doubt whether they are pleaded as independent grounds
of recovery or only as elements with other grounds. It
is somewhat impossible to regard them as the former, for
no special relief is asked on account of them. They represent completed acts the injury of which has been accomplished, the plaintiff losing by them access to the Guaranty
Fund or its security, and hence Lankford is charged with
personal liability. But no relief, as we have said, is prayed
against the fund. If it were, Lankford v. Platte Iron Works
Co., supra, might apply.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

MARTIN v. LANKFORD ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 97.

Submitted December 18, 1917.-Decided January 28, 1918.

This action was similar to Johnson v. Lankford, ante, 541. Here, however, plaintiff sought damages measured by the excess of his claims
as depositor over his liability as a stockholder of the bank; and there
was not diverse citizenship. Held, (1) that the action was not against
the State but against the defendant Bank Commissioner personally
(and his surety) because of his alleged tortious conduct in violating
the state law, and (2) that allegations to the effect that by the
Commissioner's wrongful administration of the state law plaintiff's
privileges and immunities were abridged and his property taken
without due process, in violation of the Constitution, were to be
taken as in emphasis of the Commissioner's wrongdoing, not as an

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

independent ground of recovery; and, in the absence of diverse
citizenship, the District Court lacked jurisdiction.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles West for plaintiff in error, contended in
this and the Johnson Case, ante, 541, (with which it was
presented,) that the conduct of Lankford, besides constituting a breach of duty under the state law, was at
the same time in violation of the Federal Constitution,
and gave rise to a federal cause of action under Rev.
Stats., ยง 1979, Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368. Further,
that, done under color of the state law, the conduct
amounted to unconstitutional state action, though the
law itself was not subject -to' objection, and that the defendant, guilty of such conduct, became personally liable
as a violator of the plaintiffs' privileges and immunities
and their rights to due process and equal protection of
law, citing Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles,
227 U. S. 278; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Raymond v. Chicago
Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Ex pane Young, 209
U. S. 123; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U.
S. 362; Nashville v. Taylor, 86 Fed. Rep. 168, 184, 185;
Iron Mountain R. Co. of Memphis v. City of Memphis,
96 Fed. Rep. 113; and other authorities. Upon this
ground it was sought to sustain the District Court's
jurisdiction in the absence of diverse citizenship.
No brief filed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The action is in certain particulars similiar to No. 96,
ante, 541, and was submitted with it. The citizenship of
the parties, however, is not diverse as in the other action,
they being all citizens of Oklahoma. There is a further

MARTIN v. LANKFORD.
547.

Opinion of the Court.

difference from the other action in that in the latter the
plaintiff was a depositor in the bank while in this he is a
stockholder as well as a depositor and seeks to have his
stockholder's liability of $2,000 offset against any sums
that may be owing to him by reason of the matters set forth
in his petition, Lankford, as bank commissioner, having
refused to do so. Wherein and wherefore Lankford should
have done so and wherein and wherefore he violated his
duty to plaintiff through wrongful and neglectful conduct
is charged in three causes of action substantially the same
as the petition in No. 96, varied only to suit the differences
in demand. In other words, that plaintiff lost his deposit
because of neglect of duty upon the part of Lankford in
the following particulars: (1) Failure to exercise proper
supervision over the bank as directed by the statute of the
State. (2) Allowing the parties in charge of the bank to
squander its assets. (3) Allowing it to continue business
while and after its reserve was greatly less than required
by law. (4) Allowing its managers continuously and repeatedly to make excessive loans and permit excessive overdrafts. (5) Allowing such managers to remain in charge of
its affairs, knowing them to be incompetent and notwithstanding it was his duty to discover such incompetency
and, upon discovery, to take possession of the bank for the
protection of its depositors and stockholders.
Plaintiff hence prayed that his stockholder's liability of
$2,000 be offset against the sums due him and for recovery
of the overplus, which he alleged to be $6,669.25, and interest thereon.
The Attorney General of the State appeared specially
and alleged that the State "is a necessary party in interest
to a proper determination of the issues described in the
plaintiff's petition," that it "does not consent to be sued
in this cause, and objects to this action being maintained
against it." The motion concluded as follows:-'" Wherefore, the State of Oklahoma moves the court to dismiss this

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

action for want of jurisdiction over the party defendant."
Thereupon, by permission of the court, plaintiff inserted
at the end of each cause of action an amendment in substance as follows: That the enforcement of the law of the
State through Lankford, as bank commissioner, abridges
plaintiff's privileges and immunities as a citizen of the
United States in that Lankford allowed and paid out of the
assets of the bank and out of the Guaranty Fund the deposits of other persons similarly situated with plaintiff and refused arbitrarily to pay his, plaintiff's, deposit. And by the
imposition of the lien on the assets of the bank by the State
for the sums advanced by it to the payment of such other
depositors postpones and prevents the collection of plaintiff's deposit because the amount so advanced is greater
than the assets, and that plaintiff was entitled to the same
treatment as other depositors.
The court then passed upon the motion to dismiss and
granted it, reciting that the question of jurisdiction was
alone involved.
The petition charges delinquency on the part of Lankford whereby the bank's officers were enabled to so conduct its affairs as to brihg it to insolvency, making it necessary for him to take possession of it with its assets
depleted. The petition also charges such conduct after
he took possession as to subordinate plaintiff's claim to
that of other depositors in the same situation. His conduct in this last particular, it is said, was in violation of
the equal protection and due process clauses of the Constitution of the United States.
We assume that the amendment to the petition which
charges that the lien of the State upon the assets of the
bank was so enforced as to give other depositors a preference was intended to be but another way of asserting
violation of the Constitution, not by the law of the State,
but by the wrongful administration of the law by Lank-

MARTIN v. LANKFORD.
547.

Opinion of the Court.

ford. Indeed the petition negatives state action. It is
based, as we have seen, upon the tortious conduct of Lankford, not in exertion of the state law but in violation of it.
The reasoning of No. 96 is therefore applicable and the
conclusion must be the same, that is, the action is not one
against the State, and the District Court erred in dismissing it for want of jurisdiction on that ground.
We say "on that ground," for we are brought to the
consideration whether the judgment of dismissal can be
sustained upon another ground. There is confusion in
the petition and the argument used to support it. As we
have seen, Lankford is charged with dereliction of duty
whereby plaintiff in error has been injured; but there is an
assignment of error based upon the due process and other
clauses of the Constitution of the United States. They
were violated, the assignment recites, by Lankford's conduct by which other depositors were preferred to plaintiff,
and the decision was "without evidence, without notice,
without a hearing provided by law, without an opportunity afforded by law for judicial review"; and that the
District Court erred in deciding that "the consequent action based upon said facts against" Lankford and the insurance company as his surety "was in effect one against
the State of Oklahoma."
In No. 96 we said of a like allegation that it was only
possible to regard it as emphasis of Lankford's wrongdoing,
not as an independent ground of recovery. To hold otherwise would be to disregard the whole scheme of plaintiff's
petition which is, as we have seen, a cause of action against
Lankford because of his derelictions. This being the nature of the action, the District Court erred in regarding it
as one against the State and dismissing it on that ground.
But, however, its judgment was right, plaintiff and Lankford being citizens of the same State, and the Surety Insurance Company being an Oklahoma corporation, and
therefore the judgment must be affirmed.
Affirmed.

