WM. FILENE'S SONS CO. v. WEED.
594.

Syllabus.

jected to were paid by Mims "under protest" and by
Smyth without objection. The cases are on all fours one
with the other and the decision of the earlier one, which
it should be noted was rendered since the decision in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, must be accepted as ruling this
case on the merits as it also rules against the motion by
the appellee to dismiss. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hill,
237 U. S. 208, and also 215.
It results that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Reversed.

WILLIAM FILENE'S SONS COMPANY v. WEED
ET AL., RECEIVERS OF WILLIAM S. BUTLER &,
COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE'
FIRST. CIRCUIT.
No. 93.

Argued December 17, 18, 1917.-Decided February 4, 1918.

Rent issues from the land, is not due until the rent day, and is due in
respect of the enjoyment of the premises let.
Where, however, a lessee corporation not only undertook to pay as
rental all sums payable by its lessor under overleases of the same
premises, but also, as the inducing consideration for the lease,
covenanted to pay at all events a certain amount per annum, in
monthly instalments throughout the term and, if the lease should
be terminated sooner, to pay a sum measured at the same rate
for the unexpired portion, less a discount, held, (1) that the covenant created a present indebtedness, independent of rent, for
the whole amount so stipulated to be paid; and (2) that upon the
appointment of receivers in a purely equitable proceeding to carry
on the lessee's business and pay its debts, and upon their declining
the lease, leaving rent in default, the lessor, by re-entry pursuant
to the lease with the court's consent, might perfect its claim to the
amount payable under the covenant for the unexpired term, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

that the claim thus perfected was provable within the time fixed by
the *courtfor proof of claims against the receivers.
Held, further, in such case, that the lessor might, in like manner, perfect
and prove its claim under the lessee's covenant to pay as damages
the difference between the rental value'at the date of entry and the
rent reserved, for the residue of the term; for such is not a covenant
to pay or accelerate rent, but a personal covenant liquidating damages upon a footing that is familiar and fair.
When a court, without statute, takes possession of all the assets of a
corporation to satisfy its debts, the rights and equities of the creditors are determined by their contracts with the debtor. It is error to
give to the filing of the bill the effect of the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy or to exclude a lawful claim made within the time fixed
for proving claims and maturing within a reasonable time before
distribution can be made.
A covenant for the payment of so much per annum in monthly payments throughout the term, and if the lease is terminated sooner, for
anticipating the payments for the unexpired portion "less a discount
at the rate of five per cent. per annum on payments so anticipated,"
construed as intending a simple discount on the payments as they
would fall due, i. e., monthly.
230 Fed. Rep. 31, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George R. Nutter, with whom Mr. Jacob J. Kaplan,
Mr. Edward F. McClennen and Mr. Wm. H. Dunbar were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick H. Nash, with whom Mr. Charles F.

Choate, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes to this court by writ of certiorari upon
a bill for instructions filed by the receivers of William S.

Butler & Company, incorporated. The receivers were appointed upon the prayer of a creditor, assented to by the

corporation, in a bill brought for continuing the business

until the assets could be applied in satisfaction of the corn-

WM. FILENE'S SONS CO. v. WEED.
597.

Opinion of the Court.

pany's debts. Instructions are asked as to the amount
to be paid to the petitioner, Wm. Filene's Sons Company,
under a lease of the premises that William S. Butler &
Company occupied. The lease covered five parcels of
land held by the petitioner, also as lessee, and ran for the
terms, less one day, of the respective original leases, which
expired at different dates, from December 30, 1917, to
February 28, 1921. It provided for a reentry in case of
a failure to perform any covenant, of bankruptcy, &c., or
of a receiver being appointed and not discharged within
ninety days. These proceedings were begun on November 7, 1912. On December 5, 1912, the receiver elected
not to assume the lease and left the rent due December 1,
unpaid; on December 9 the petitioner reentered in pursuance of leave granted by the court, and on December 17
made demand upon the receiver for the sum that it alleges
to be due. The receiver filed this petition for instructions on April 7, 1913. On September 30, 1913, the petitioner filed a formal claim, the time for proving claims
not yet having expired.
The lease is made in consideration of the lessee's covenant to pay twenty thousand dollars a year until February 27, 1921 (the day before the longest of the original
leases expired,) and of the other covenants therein contained by the lessee to be performed. The reddendum
requires the payment as rental of all sums payable by the
lessor under the leases to it at the times specified in their
leases, "together with a further sum of twenty thousand
dollars yearly, payable in equal monthly instalments until February 27, 1921." The lessor agrees, at the joint
request of the lessee and the overlessors in all the original
leases in force at the time, to cancel the overleases and
abate the rent in respect of them upon payment of a sum
equal to $20,000 a year for the residue of the term plus
one day, "less a discount at the rate of five per cent. per
qnnum on payments so anticipated." There is a proviso

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

for an abatement of rent and other payments in case of
fire, the taking of part of the premises, &c. "except said
payment of twenty thousand dollars per year"; and there
is a further stipulation that if the overlease of any part
of the demised premises is terminated, the payment of
twenty thousand dollars per year shall continue without
any abatement. Finally it is agreed that upon a termination of the lease as provided for the lessee will pay to
the lessor, upon demand, a sum equal to twenty thousand
dollars per year and at the same rate for a fractional part
of a year, for so much of the period up to February 27,
1921, as remains unexpired, with one day added (less the
five per cent. discount, as aforesaid), and will further make
one of three several payments at the election of the lessor,
of which it is only necessary to mention the second. This
was to pay to the lessor as damages, the difference between
the rental value and the rent and other payments named
in the lease for the residue of the term, deducting, however, such sum as has been paid for the same period under
the clause requiring the payment of twenty thousand dollars a year.
The substance of the petitioner's claim as argued before
us is for a sum equal to twenty thousand dollars a year
in monthly payments from December 9, 1912, to February 28, 1921, less a discount at the rate of five per centum
per annum on the payments anticipated, and for whatever
sum may represent its damages estimated in the manner
that we have just stated as stipulated in the lease. The
courts below were of. opinion that the twenty thousand
dollars were simply an addition to the rent, that the provisions for payment upon termination of the lease were
an attempt to secure a preference by accelerating the instalments and also were in the nature of a penalty, that
the analogy of bankruptcy applied, and that the claim
for the above-mentioned items could not be allowed. The
Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have considered also

WM. FILENE'S SONS CO. v. WEED.
597.

Opinion of the Court.

that the filing of the bill had the same effect as a pet ition
in bankruptcy in stopping claims that like this were not
provable at that date. 230 Fed. Rep. 31. 144 C. C. A.
329.
We are driven to different conclusions. In the first
place, whether a letter showing that the payment of
$20,000 a year was a substitute for'a bonus of $340,000
was admissible or not, United States v. Bethlehem Steel
Co., 205 U. S. 105, 120, we are of opinion that on the face
of the lease and the figures it was dealt with as a separate
item and as the inducing consideration for the sublease,
the right to the whole of which was earned when the sublease was made. The summary of the clauses referring to
it that we have given shows that the whole amount was
to be paid in any event, whether the overleases were cancelled, or a part of the rent was abated, or the leases were
terminated, as well as if they ran their full course. It is
true that in the reddendum the words "as rental" might
be construed to embrace the later clause "together with
a further sum of twenty thousand dollars," but the sentence does not compel that construction and the dominant intent and obvious fact seems to us to override any
argument upon that ground. See Cox v. Harper [1910],
1 Ch. 480. Rent issues from the land, is not due until
the rent day, and is due in respect of the enjoyment of the
premises let. The twenty thousand dollars a year was to
be paid whether the premises were enjoyed or not, upon
a personal covenant that created a present debt, with no
contingency except those possibly and lawfully accelerating the time in which it was to be paid.
We perceive no ground that would justify the rejection
of the petitioner's proof for the whole sum subject to the
discount agreed. Certainly the fact that the termination
of the lease happened after the filing of the bill has no such
effect, although the sum was not presently payable until
then. When a statutory system is administered the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

question for the courts is what the statutes prescribe.
But when the courts without statute take possession of
all the assets of a corporation under a bill like the present
and so make it impossible to collect debts except from the
court's hands, they have no warrant for excluding creditors, or for introducing supposed equities other than those
determined by the contracts that the debtor was content
to make and the creditors to accept. In order to make a
distribution possible they must of necessity limit the time
for the proof of claims. But they have no authcrity to
give to the filing of the bill the effect of the filing of a petition in bankruptcy so as to exclude any previously made
and lawful claim that matures within a reasonable time
before distribution can be made. Pennsylvania Steel Co.
v. New York City Ry. Co., 198 Fed. Rep. 721, 740, 741.
Of course it does not matter that the claim was perfected
by the petitioner's act, after a default in the rent. The
receivers would not, and Butler & Company could not
pay it, so that all agree that the petitioner's course was
the prudent and only possible course to take, as it was the
course that was contemplated by the covenant in the lease.
Wilder v. McDonald, 63 Ohio St. 383, 397.
We agree with the petitioner that the discount on payments so anticipated should be a simple discount on the
payments as they would fall due, that is, monthly, making the total according to the Master's report, $137,348.88.
The rest of the claim is for damages ultra the twenty
thousand dollars a year-the difference between the rental
value at the date of entry and the rent reserved, less the
amount received under the twenty thousand dollar clause.
This also was contracted for and we see no reason why it
should not be paid. The contract was not that all the
rent for the 'term should become presently due, it was not
for rent at all, but was a personal covenant that liquidated
the damages upon a footing that was familiar and fair.
Mass. Rev. Laws, c. 163, ยง 33. Woodbury v. Sparrell

GARDINER v. BUTLER & CO.
597.

Syllabus.

Print, 187 Massachusetts, 426, 428. International Trust
Co. v. Weeks, 203 U. S. 364. People v. St. Nicholas Bank,
151 N. Y. 592. Woodland v. Wise, 112 Maryland, 35.
Reading Iron Works-Sweatmen's Appeal, 150 Pa. St. 369.
McGraw v. Union Trust Co., 135 Michigan, 609. Smith v.
Goodman, 149 Illinois, 75, 85, 86. Kalkhoff v. Nelson,
60 Minnesota, 284, 288. Ex parte Llynvi Coal & Iron Co.
in re Hide, L. R. 7 Ch. 28. The claim divides itself into
two items: one from January 1, 1913, until April 1, 1913,
when the whole premises were relet, put by the master at
$39,829.80; the other from April 1j 1913, to the end of the
term, put at $34,433.47. The other disputed item for expenses of reletting is disallowed.
Decree reversed.
MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS

having been of counsel took no

part in the decision of this case.

GARDINER, TRUSTEE OF THE PERRY REAL
ESTATE TRUST, v. WILLIAM S. BUTLER & COMPANY, INCORPORATED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 95.

Argued December 18, 1917.-Decided February 4, 1918.

Following Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, ante, 597, held, that, in a nonstatutory receivership proceeding brought to preserve the good will
and pay the debts of a company occupying premises as lessee, the
lessor, which reentered during the receivership, had a proper claim
for rent up to reientry, and for damages based on the lessee's
covenant to pay the difference between the rental value at time of reentry and the rent and other payments reserved for the residue of the

term.

