NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS CO. v. McCALL. 345
337.

Syllabus.

was so substantially that which the Bridge Company
contracted to perform as to permit the recovery of the
difference in cost between the two under the familiar rules
applicable to the subject.
The history of the negotiation between the Bridge
Company and the Government before the first contract
was annulled, as it appears in the finding of facts, makes it
highly inequitable that the claim of liquidated damages
should be allowed. The recovery of the Bridge Company,
limited as it was to the value of the materials delivered by
it and used by the Government, is approved. It results
that the judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK EX REL.
NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS COMPANY v. McCALL ET AL., COMMISSIONERS, CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK FOR THE FIRST
DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 407.

Argued November 6, 7, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

An order of a state public service commission requiring a city gas company to extend its mains and service pipes to meet the reasonable
needs of a growing community within the city can not be deemed
arbitrary or capricious, and so contrary to the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, where it appears that the company was
accorded full hearing before the commission and on review in the
state courts, that it is the only one authorized to serve the community
in question with gas, and that the rate of return upon the cost of the
extension, though low initially-from 21K% to 4% per annum-, will
probably soon become ample with the growth of the community; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

where, moreover, the record does not show, and the company does
not claim, that the comparatively small loss asserted would render
its business as a whole unprofitable.
171 App. Div. 580; 219 N. Y. 84, 681, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Garver for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Godfrey Goldmark, with whom Mr. George S. Coleman, Mr. Arthur DuBois, Mr. William L. Ransom and
Mr. George H. Stover were on the briefs, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
It sufficiently appearing that the Court of Appeals retained practical control over the record and judgment in
this case, while the motion for reargument in that court
was pending, the motion to dismiss the writ of error, on the
ground that the application for it came too late, will be
denied, and the case will be disposed of upon its merits.
The Public Service Commission of the State of New
York for the First District ordered the New York &
Queens Gas Company to extend its gas mains and service
pipes in such a manner as would be "required reasonably
to serve with gas" the community known as Douglaston,
including Douglas Manor, which was located about a
mile and a half beyond the then terminus of the company's gas mains, but within the Third Ward of the
Borough of Queens, City of New York.
When this order of the Public Service Commission was
reviewed by the Supreme Court at the Appellate Division,
that court assumed that it had authority to review gen'.
erally the reasonableness of the order of the Public Service
Commission, and upon such review found the order unreasonable and annulled it.

NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS CO. v. McCALL. 347
345.

Opinion of the Court.

From the decision of the Appellate Division an appeal
was taken to the Court of Appeals, which reversed that
decision, and held that the Appellate Division had no
power under the New York law to substitute its own judgment for the determination of the Public Service Commission as to what was reasonable, under the circumstances
of the case. The case is now in this court for review of
the judgment entered upon the decision of the Court of
Appeals and it is presented upon a single assignment of
error, viz: "That the order of the Public Service Commission . . . was illegal and void, in that it deprived the
above named New York and Queens Gas Company of its
property without due process of law and denied to it the
equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, in
requiring the said company to extend its distributing
system, under great physical difficulties and at enormous
expense, to an independent and remote community which
the said company was under no present duty to supply
with gas, when it appeared that the said Gas Company
would not obtain an adequate return from the expenditure
required to make such extension."
More compactly stated, this assignment of error is,
that the order deprived the gas company of its property
without due process of law, because obedience to it
would require an expenditure of money upon which
the prospective earnings would not provide an adequate
return.
The Court of Appeals of New York decided that the
Public Service Commission was created to perform the
important function of supervising and regulating the business of public service corporations; that the state law
assumes that the experience of the members of the Commission especially fits them for dealing with the problems
presented by the duties and activities of such corporations;
that the courts in reviewing the action of the Commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

have no authority to substitute their judgment as to what
is reasonable in a given case for that of the Commission,
but are limited to determining whether the action complained of was capricious or arbitrary and for this reason
unlawful; and that it was clearly within the power of the
Commission to make the order which is here assailed.
This interpretation of the statutes of New York is conclusive, and the definition, thus announced, of the power
of the courts of that State to review the decision of the
Public Service Commission, based as it is in part on the
decision in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470, differs but slightly,
if at all, from the definition by this court of its own power
to review the decisions of similar administrative bodies,
arrived at in many cases in which such decisions have been
under examination. Typical cases are: Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481-494; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 423,
443-4; Louisiana R. R. Commission v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 212 U. S. 414, 420-2; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Union PacificR. R. Co., 222 U. S.
541-547, and Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223
U. S. 655, 668.
It is the result of these and similar decisions, that while
in such cases as we have here this court is confined to the
federal question involved and therefore has not the
authority to substitute its -judgment for that of an administrative commission as to the wisdom or policy of an
order complained of, and will not analyze or balance the
evidence which was before the Commission for the purpose of determining whether it preponderates for or againgt
the conclusion arrived at, yet it will, nevertheless, enter
upon such an examination of the record as may be necessary to determine whether the federal constitutional
right claimed has been denied, as, in this case, whether
there was such a want of hearing or such arbitrary or

NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS CO. v. McCALL.
345.

349

Opinion of the Court.

capricious action on the part of the Commission as to
violate the due process clause of the Constitution.
The result of the application of this rule to the record
before us cannot be doubtful. The Gas Company appeared at the hearing before the Commission, cross-examined witnesses, introduced testimony and' argued the
case. On writ of certiorari the case was reexamined by
the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, and it was
again reviewed on appeal, by the Court of Appeals. In
the matter of procedure plainly the company cannot complain of want of due process of law.
The record shows that the company at the time of the
hearing had franchises authorizing it to manufacture and
sell gas throughout the Third Ward of the Borough of
Queens, in the City of New York, and that, it being the
only company which had franchises for any part of that
area, the community to which it was ordered to extend
its distributing system must continue without gas if the
order does not become effective.
The community of Douglaston, including Douglas
Manor, was a rapidly growing settlement of three hundred
and thirty houses, of an average cost of $7,500, thus giving
assurance that the occupiers of them would be probable
users of gas, and which, with very few exceptions, were
occupied by families the entire year. While the community is described in the assignment of error as" independent
and remote" the record shows that it was served at the
time by franchise holding companies, which supplied
water, electric light and telephone to its inhabitants, and
that the number of houses had doubled within a few
years.
The length of the extension ordered was about one and
one-half miles but the mains of the company, which extended to the point nearest to Douglaston, were being
used to almost their full capacity, and for this reason the
estimated cost of making the improvement included new

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

mains of some eight miles in length. The engineer of the
Gas Company testified that the cost of the ordered extension would be approximately $86,000, while the engineer
for the Commission estimated the cost at $61,000. The
Commission found that only $45,000 of the new investment required would be properly chargeable against the
extension ordered, since the newer and larger mains would
be available in part for other business.
On the basis of the company's estimate of the cost of the
extension the income would be about 214% per annum,
and, on the basis of the estimate by the Commission of the
part of the cost properly chargeable to the Douglaston
community the income would be 4%. There is no showing
in the record as to the fair value of the entire property of
the Gas Company used in the public service, nor of the
rate of return which it was earning thereon, and therefore
even if the return on the cost of complying with the order
be conceded to be inadequate, this would not suffice to
render the order legally unreasonable. Atlantic Coast Line
R. R. Co. v. North Carolina CorporationCommission, 206
U. S. 1, 24-6;MissouriPacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
262; Puget Sound Traction Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S. 574,
580.
It is significant also that within a year preceding the
hearing by the Commission the Gas Company proposed
in writing to the residents of Douglaston that it would
extend its mains to the settlement if they would advance
$10,000, to be returned in semi-annual credits upon the
amount of gas consumed.
These references to the evidence will suffice. They show
this Public Service Commission ordering a public service
corporation to render an important public service, under
conditions such that in the aspect least favorable to the
Gas Company the initial return upon the investment involved would be low but with every prospect of its soon
becoming ample, and also that no claim was made by the

NEW YORK & QUEENS GAS CO. v. McCALL. 351
345.

Opinion of the Court.

company that the comparatively small loss which the
company claims would result would render its business as
a whole unprofitable.
Corporations which devote their property to a public use
may not pick and choose, serving only the portions of the
territory covered by their franchises which it is presently
profitable for them to serve and restricting the development of the remaining portions by leaving their inhabitants in discomfort without the service which they alone
can render. To correct this disposition to serve where it is
profitable and to neglect where it is not, is one of the important purposes for which these administrative commissions, with large powers, were called into existence,
with an organization and with duties which peculiarly fit
them for dealing with problems such as this case presents,
and we agree with the Court of Appeals of New York in
concluding that the action of the Commission complained
of was not arbitrary or capricious, but was based on very
substantial evidence, and therefore that, even if the courts
differed with the Commission as to the expediency or
widsom of the order, they are without authority to substitute for its judgment their views of what may be reasonable or wise. Since no constitutional right of the plaintiff in error is invaded by the order complained of, the
judgment under review must be
Affirmed.

