OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
245 U. S.

Syllabus.

Perpetual franchises have proved to be such a burden
in communities upon which they have been imposed (Wilcox, vol. II, c. 26) that, for the reasons so well stated in
Blair v. Chicago, supra, it is impossible for me to agree
that any grant is perpetual unless the language used in it
is so express and clear that reasonable men cannot differ
in giving to it that effect.
Thus for the reasons (1) That a perpetual grant is not
"in plain terms" made by the resolution of 1892; (2) That
appropriate consideration seems to me not to be given to
the decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio, and (3) That
the reasons stated for inferring that an irrevocable franchise was intended by the granting power in the case before us are not sound reasons, I should dissent from the
opinion of the court even if convinced that it had jurisdiction to decide the case.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

SUPREME

LODGE

concurs in this dissent.

KNIGHTS
SMYTH.

OF PYTHIAS

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 107. Argued January 2, 1918.-Decided January 28, 1918.
The appellant had the right to increase the assessment upon the insurance certificate here concerned, and there was jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, the case involving a construction of a federal charter.
The case is ruled on both points by Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias
v. Mims, 241 U. S. 574. See also Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hill,
237 U. S. 208.
220 Fed. Rep. 438, reversed.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. SMYTH.
594.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John J. McCall, with whom Mr. James E. Watson,
Mr. Ward H. Watson and Mr. Sol. H. Esarey were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. Harry V. Borst, with whom Mr. W. W. Millard
was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall designate the parties as they were in the trial
court, the appellant as defendant and the appellee as
plaintiff.
This is a suit to enjoin an increase of assessment upon
a certificate,-we shall call it a policy-of insurance on
the life of the plaintiff, issued by the defendant. The asserted claim, approved by the lower courts, is that the defendant is estopped to demand such increased payment,
or to cancel the policy for failure to pay it, for the reason
that at the time plaintiff's policy was delivered to him
there was handed to him by the Secretary of the Local
Section a pamphlet which purported to be a copy of the
"Constitution and General Laws" of the Insurance Section or "Endowment Rank" of the defendant, which
were then in force, in which copy Article IV, Section 1,
reads:
"Each member

.

.

.

shall pay

.

.

.

a monthly

assessment, as provided in the following table, and shall
continue to pay the same amount each month thereafter as
long as he remains a member of the Endowment Rank."
This provision, it is contended, became a part of the
contract of insurance with the plaintiff, which could not
be changed without his consent, and made unlawful any
increase in his assessment. The defense is that power was
given to the defendant by its charter to change its by-laws;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

that by provisions in his policy and in his application for
it, the plaintiff was notified and charged with knowledge
of this fact; and that the increase of assessment complained of was duly authorized pursuant to the terms of
this grant of power.
In the disposition which we make of the case the further
claim of the defendant, that the by-law relied upon by
the plaintiff had been amended before the policy was issued to him, becomes unimportant.
The facts of the case before us make it clear that it must'
be ruled by the decision of this court in Supreme Lodge
Knights of Pythias v. Mims, 241 U. S. 574.
The defendant is the same fraternal insurance corporation which was plaintiff in error in that case, and its corporate history there detailed need not be repeated here.
The plaintiff in this case (as in the other) was a member of the 4th Class of the "Endowment Rank," and his
policy for $3,000 was delivered to him on November 26,
1889, upon an application filed the 26th of the preceding
month. He paid a monthly assessment of $3 until 1894
when it was increased to $3.15, which he paid until 1901
when it was increased to $4.80, which he paid until 1910
when he received a notice of an increase to $14.70, which
he refused to pay and made the basis of his claim in this
suit.
In the Mims Case the original policy was issued in 1879
but was surrendered for another in May, 1885, which contained, as the report shows, the same provisions, in almost the same words, as in the Smyth policy. When it
was issued the by-law on which the plaintiff relies in this
case was confessedly in full force, so that if it be admitted
that this by-law was in the form which the plaintiff claims
it was represented to him to be at the time his policy was
issued, nevertheless his position would be precisely that
of Mims.
Two increases of assessment made prior to the one ob-

WM. FILENE'S SONS CO. v. WEED.
594.

Syllabus.

jected to were paid by Mims "under protest" and by
Smyth without objection. The cases are on all fours one
with the other and the decision of the earlier one, which
it should be noted was rendered since the decision in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, must be accepted as ruling this
case on the merits as it also rules against the motion by
the appellee to dismiss. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hill,
237 U. S. 208, and also 215.
It results that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Reversed.

WILLIAM FILENE'S SONS COMPANY v. WEED
ET AL., RECEIVERS OF WILLIAM S. BUTLER &,
COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE'
FIRST. CIRCUIT.
No. 93.

Argued December 17, 18, 1917.-Decided February 4, 1918.

Rent issues from the land, is not due until the rent day, and is due in
respect of the enjoyment of the premises let.
Where, however, a lessee corporation not only undertook to pay as
rental all sums payable by its lessor under overleases of the same
premises, but also, as the inducing consideration for the lease,
covenanted to pay at all events a certain amount per annum, in
monthly instalments throughout the term and, if the lease should
be terminated sooner, to pay a sum measured at the same rate
for the unexpired portion, less a discount, held, (1) that the covenant created a present indebtedness, independent of rent, for
the whole amount so stipulated to be paid; and (2) that upon the
appointment of receivers in a purely equitable proceeding to carry
on the lessee's business and pay its debts, and upon their declining
the lease, leaving rent in default, the lessor, by re-entry pursuant
to the lease with the court's consent, might perfect its claim to the
amount payable under the covenant for the unexpired term, and

