OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.'
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA AND THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF NEW -YORK.
Nos. 663, 664, 665, 666, 681, 769. Argued December 13, 14, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.
The grant to Congress of power to raise and support armies, considered in conjunction with the grants of the powers to declare war,
to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and
naval forces, and to make laws necessary and proper for executing
granted powers (Constitution, Art. I, § 8), includes the power to
compel military service, exercised by the Selective Draft Law of
May 18, 1917, e. 15, 40 Stat. 76. This conclusion, obvious upon
the face of the Constitution, is confirmed by an historical examination of the subject.
The army power, combining the powers vested in the Congress and
the States under the Confederation, embraces the complete military power of government, as is manifested not only by the grant
made but by the express limitation of Art. I, § 10, prohibiting the
States, without the consent of Congress, from keeping troops in
time of peace or engaging in war.
The militia power reserved to the States by the militia clause (Art. I,
§ 8), while separate and distinct in its field, and while serving to
diminish occasion for exercising the army power, is subject to be
restricted in, or even deprived of, its area of operation through the
army power, according to the extent to which Congress, in its discretion, finds necessity for calling the latter into play.
The service which may be exacted of the citizen under the army
power is not limited to the specific purposes for which Congress is
IThe docket titles of these cases are: Arver v. United States, No. 663,
Grahl v. United States, No. 664, Otto Wangerin v. United States, No. 665,
Walter Wangerin v. United States, No. 666, in error to the District
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota; Kramer v.
United States, No. 681, Graubardv. United States, No. 769, in error to
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Counsel for Parties.

expressly authorized, by the militia clause, to call the militia; the
presence in the Constitution of such express regulations affords no
basis for an inference that the army power, when exerted, is not
complete and dominant to the extent of its exertion.
Compelled military service is neither repugnant to a free government
nor in conflict with the constitutional guaranties of individual
liberty. Indeed, it may not be doubted that the very conception
of a just government and its duty to the citizen includes the duty
of the citizen to render military service in case of need and the right
of the government to compel it.
The power of Congress to compel military service as in the Selective
Draft Law, clearly sustained by the original Constitution, is even
more manifest under the Fourteenth Amendment, which, as frequently has been pointed out, broadened the national scope of the
government by causing citizenship of the United States to be paramount and dominant instead of being subordinate and derivative,
thus operating generally upon the powers conferred by the Constitution.
The constitutionality of the Selective Draft Law also is upheld against
the following objections: (1) That by some of its administrative
features it delegates federal power to state officials; (2) that it vests
both legislative and judicial power in administrative officers; (3)
that, by exempting ministers of religion and theological students
under certain conditions and by relieving from strictly military
service members of certain religious sects whose tenets deny the
moral right to engage in war, it is repugnant to the First Amendment, as establishing or interfering with religion; and (4) that it
creates involuntary servitude in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.
THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. T. E. Latimer, with whom Mr. Herbert L. Dunn

and Mr. Frank Healy were on the briefs, for plaintiffs
in error in Nos. 663, 664, 665 and 666.
Mr. Harry Weinberger for plaintiff in error in No. 681.
Mr. Edwin T. Taliferro, with whom Mr. I. M. Sackin

was on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 769.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

1

Argument for the United States.

245 U. S.

Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. Joseph E. Black, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curice.
Mr. Walter Nelles, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curice.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for the United States.
These cases were argued and submitted together with
Jones v. Perkins, infra, 390; Goldman v. United States,
infra, 474; Kramer v. United States, infra, 478; and Ruthenberg v. United States, infra, 480. The briefs filed by
the parties and amici curice opposed to the Government
attack the constitutionality of the statute from every
standpoint. As it is manifestly impracticable to restate
these arguments separately, perhaps the best recourse
available is to exhibit their leading features reflexly, by
summarizing the answers to them contained in the single
brief of the United States, viz:
The highest duty of the citizen is to bear arms at the
call of the nation. This duty is inherent in citizenship;
without it and the correlative power of the State to compel
its performance society could not be maintained. Vattel,
Law of Nations, Book III, c. 2, §§ 8, 10. It is a contradiction in terms to say that the United States is a sovereign and yet lacks this power of self-defense. Hence, the
power was expressly granted by the Constitution. Art. I,
§ 8. It is found in the power to declare war, which means
a power to carry on war successfully, i. e., with the means
necessary. Vattel, Book III, c. 2, § 7; United States v.
Sugar, 243 Fed. Rep. 423, 436; Kneedler v. Lane, 45 Pa.
St. 238. Also in the power to raise and support armies,
which is conferred broadly, and without limitation, other
than the restriction that appropriations to support
armies shall not exceed two years. There is no provision

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Argument for the United States.

limiting the means to voluntary enlistment. On the
contrary, Congress is expressly empowered to use all
means necessary and proper to carry out the express
grant. Hence, the power to resort either to voluntary
enlistment or to enforced draft is express. Selective
draft is not only an appropriate means but under the
conditions of modern warfare the most prudent, just,
and equitable method which can be employed. That
the power to compel military service is an incident of
sovereignty appears from the custom of nations. Compulsory service is now exacted by practically all the
nations of the globe. The compulsory draft was a normal
method of raising armies in the United States in 1787
when the Constitution was adopted. It was expressly,
recognized in many state constitutions, was enforced
by the States for local purposes in calling out the militia,
and also for obtaining levies to fill the ranks of the Continental Army. The constitutions of five States during
the Revolutionary War period express the principle of universal military service. Militia, duty was imposed upon
all arms-bearing citizens of the original thirteen States
during the eighteenth century. The Continental Congress
recommended it to the States as a means of recruiting the
Continental Army; and the numerous statutes enacted
pursuant to those recommendations [space will not permit
of their citation here] conclusively determine the meaning
which the framers of the Constitution attached to the
power to raise armies. The history of this clause in the
Convention shows a definite intent not to limit the nation
to voluntary enlistments. Supp. Elliot's Debates, vol. 5,
pp. 378, 379, 443, 510, 511, 553; Farrand's Records of
the Federal Convention, vol. 2, pp. 323, 330, 505, 509,
570, 595. Several of the States, in ratifying the Constitution, proposed amendments to limit the power of Congress to raise armies by draft, Journals of Congress,
vol. 13, appendix, pp. 176, 184, Folwell's Press, 1801;

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

245 U. S.

Elliot's Debates, vol. 1, p. 336; vol. 3, p. 659; vol. 4,
pp. 242, 244, 251, 252; and their rejection shows not
only that the language employed was intended to include
the power to draft but also that this was the contemporary
interpretation. A prime object of the Constitution was
to cure the impotence of the Continental Congress directly to require military service from the citizens of the
States. Articles of Confederation, 7, 9 (1 Stat. 6, 7);
Federalist, No. 22, p. 143, No. 23, pp. 152, 153; 7 Sparks,
Writings of Washington, pp. 162, 167.
Our national history demonstrates the existence of
the power by its exercise. It was resorted to in the War
of Independence and by both sides in the Civil War;
near the conclusion of the War of 1812, James Monroe,
then Secretary of War, submitted to Congress a draft
bill with an unanswerable argument supporting the
power. See Niles' Weekly Register, vol. 7, p. 137. [The
Government also referred to state statutes requiring
compulsory militia service in force before and after the
adoption of the Constitution; Rev. Stats., § 1998, amended
in 1912, 37 Stat. 356; and the following acts of Congress
providing for drafting the militia: Feb. 28, 1795, 1 Stat.
424, amended April 18, 1814, 3 Stat. 134; July 17, 1862,
12 Stat. 597.]
Court decisions uniformly have recognized the power.
Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397, 408; Grimley's Case, 137 U.
S. 147, 153. See also Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252,
265; Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 282; Jacobson v.
Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 29; Butler v. Perry, 240 U. S.
328, 332, 333. In Kneedler v. Lane, supra, the Conscrip-

tion Act of 1863, was sustained under the power to raise
armies; and in United States v. Scott, 3 Wall. 642, and
United States v. Murphy, 3 Wall. 649, that act was construed, no question of its constitutionality being raised.
Under the similar clause in the Constitution of the Confederacy, draft acts were sustained in the confederate

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Argument for the United States.

courts. Compulsory militia service has also been enforced by the courts. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1;
Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19. The Act of 1862, supra,
requiring performance of militia duty, was sustained in
McCall's Case, 15 Fed. Cas. No. 8669, p. 1225; In re
Griner, 16 Wisconsin, 423; Druecker v. Salomon, 21 Wisconsin, 621; In re Spangler, 11 Michigan, 298; Allen v.
Colby, 47 N. H. 544. As to the power of the State to
draft, see Lanahan v. Birge, 30 Connecticut, 438, 443;
People ex rel. German Ins. Co. v. Williams, 145 Illinois,
573, 583; In re Dassler, 35 Kansas, 678, 684; State v.
Wheeler, 141 N. Car. 773, 777. The present act has been
sustained in every case which has come before the federal
courts.
There is not, as asserted, any common-law right of a
soldier not to be sent out of the country. The status of a
citizen properly drafted and that of one who has voluntarily enlisted are the same. Our armies have served
in all parts of the world, and such service has never been
regarded as illegal. Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 603, 615.
Numerous statutes of the original States provided that
the militia might be sent into neighboring States. Compulsory military service is not contrary to the spirit of
democratic institutions, for the Constitution implies
equitable distribution of the burdens no less than the
Whatever the limitations
privileges of citizenship.
sought to be set upon the Crown, there can be no doubt
that power to impress for foreign service resided in Parliament, and was actually exerted. [The discussion of this
subject is supported by many references to history.]
The act infringes no provision of the Constitution
concerning the militia. The fact that a citizen is a militiaman does not exempt him from service in the National
Army. The militia and the National Army are separate
institutions, created for separate purposes; and the power
of Congress over the former (Art. I, § 8, cl. 15, 16) is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

245 U. S.

in limitation but in extension of the power to raise armies
(cl. 12). The law infringes no reserved right of the States
over the militia. If there be a conflict between the state
and federal powers in this respect, the latter must prevail. Ex parte Coupland, 26 Texas, 386, 396, 402; Burroughs v. Peyton, 16 Gratt. 470, 475, 483-485; Jeffers v.
Fair, 33 Georgia, 347, 351, 353; Ex parte Tate, 39 Alabama, 254, 268; Ex parte Bolling, id., 609; Barber v. Irwin,
34 Georgia, 27, 37; Simmons v. Miller, 40 Mississippi,
19, 26; Kneedler v. Lane, supra. Otherwise, the power
of Congress to raise armies must be nullified. But there
is no conflict in fact. The National Government has
never impaired the right of the States to keep up the
militia. The present law draws into the National Army
but a small portion of the militia as a whole, and the
withdrawal from possible call for local service is only
temporary. Act of June 15, 1917, § 4, 40 Stat. 217. The
right of the States to organize and train the militia remaining has been recognized and safeguarded. Act of
June 14, 1917, 40 Stat. 181; National Defense Act of
June 3, 1916, § 61, 39 Stat. 198. The restrictions of the
militia clause are inapplicable. The draft is not based
on liability to perform militia duty, but on liability of
citizens to render national military service. When Congress has made provision for calling the militia in the
past, the words have been addressed to the militia expressly. [Citing numerous federal acts.] The opposing
briefs are in conflict as to whether this act calls the militia.
The National Defense Act of 1916, in designating all
able-bodied male citizens between the ages of 18 and 45
as militiamen, does not call them to militia service, and
clearly does not intend to relinquish the power to call
citizens into the National Army. The Draft Act does
not call the National Guard in its organized form, but
operates upon the individuals, for reorganization in national units. Thus to select the trained members of the

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Argument for the United States.

National Guard from the body of citizenship is not
arbitrary, but reasonable and prudent. However, even
if plaintiffs in error were called as militiamen, they would
not be entitled to relief in the courts. Martin v. Mott,
supra; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 44. It is true that the
President may not call out the militia for foreign service in time of peace, but in this instance it could not even
be said that an emergency had not arisen, or that the
President had not wisely exercised his discretion, to repel
invasion. 29 Op. Atty. Gen. 322; Martin v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 29.
The law imposes neither slavery nor involuntary servitude. The Thirteenth Amendment was intended to
abolish only the well-known forms of slavery and involuntary servitude akin thereto, and not to destroy the
power of the Government to compel a citizen to render
public service. Butler v. Perry, 240 U. S. 328, 332; Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 282; Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S. 207, 216; Edwards v. United States, 103 U. S.
471; People ex rel. GermanIns. Co. v. Williams, 145 Illinois,
573; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 351; In re Dassler,
35 Kansas, 678; and other cases. The legislation affecting the Northwest Territory (the language of the Amendment is used in the Ordinance of 1787) shows that compulsory military service was not regarded as involuntary
servitude. See Chase, Statutes of Ohio, vol. 1, pp. 92,
102, 113, 211, 245.
The law is not unconstitutional on the ground that
state officials aid in its enforcement. The contention
that it denies to the States a republican form of government is without merit and a question which the courts
will not consider. Luther v. Borden, supra; Pacific Telephone Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118. As to the objection
that it imposes duties on state officials, it is sufficient
to say that plaintiffs in error, not being state officials,
may not raise the objection. In executing the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

245 U. S.

law state officials are pro hac vice federal officials. In the
absence of contrary statutory or constitutional provisions of the State, power may be conferred upon state
officials as such to execute duties under an act of Congress, as was done during the Civil War in calling out
militia.
The law does not delegate legislative authority. It is
as specific as is reasonably practicable. Throughout
our history the common method of providing for increase
in the land forces has been simply to vest authority in
the President to raise the necessary troops. [Citing
many statutes.]
The act does not infringe the constitutional provisions
concerning the judicial power. Art. I, § 8, cl. 9; Art. III,
§§ 1, 2. The duties of the boards of exemption are administrative; they determine questions of fact necessary
to be ascertained by the Executive in enforcing the law.
The act does not violate the due process clause. It is
said that it confers upon the President discretionary and
arbitrary powers in the selection of citizens for the draft
army and that citizens may be selected upon the whim
of a state official. But the act does not require an arbitrary selection. No complaint has been made that it has
been arbitrarily or unfairly administered. On the contrary, it provides a fair and orderly method of selection.
The individual citizen may incidentally or temporarily
be restrained of his liberties in order to protect the liberties of the people as a whole. Jacobson v. Massachusetts,
197 U. S. 11, 29.
The law neither establishes a religion nor prohibits its
free exercise. Section 4 contains nothing respecting the
establishment of religion; on the contrary, it goes so far
as to aid in the free exercise of those religions which forbid participation in war.
The law does not deprive of the equal protection of
the laws. The Fourteenth Amendment is addressed to

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

the States; and, besides, the exemptions are based on
sound classification. The law proceeds upon the equitable principle that each citizen should be subject to call
for his particular service. Some are exempted from direct military service because they may help more effectively in other ways. Exemptions were allowed by every
compulsory service law passed by the States. Quakers
and conscientious objectors were frequently exempted in
the Revolutionary War. [Citing many acts of the States.]
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
We are here concerned with some of the provisions of
the Act of May 18, 1917, c. 15, 40 Stat. 76, entitled, "An
Act to authorize the President to increase temporarily the
Military Establishment of the United States." The law,
as its opening sentence declares, was intended to supply
temporarily the increased military force which was required
by the existing emergency, the war then and now flagrant.
The clauses we must pass upon and those which will throw
light on their significance are briefly summarized:
The act proposed to raise a national army, first, by
increasing the regular force to its maximum strength
and there maintaining it; second, by incorporating into
such army the members of the National Guard and National Guard Reserve already in the service of the United
States (Act of Congress of June 3, 1916, c. 134, 39 Stat.
211) and maintaining their organizations to their full
strength; third, by giving the President power in his
discretion to organize by volunteer enlistment four divisions of infantry; fourth, by subjecting all male citizens
between the ages of twenty-one and thirty to duty in the
national army for the period of the existing emergency
after the proclamation of the President announcing the
necessity for their service; and fifth, by providing for

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

selecting from the body so called, on the further proclamation of the President, 500,000 enlisted men, and a second
body of the same number should the President in his
discretion deem it necessary. To carry out its purposes
the act made it the duty of those liable to the call to
present themselves for registration on the proclamation
of the President so as to subject themselves to the terms
of the act and provided full federal means for carrying
out the selective draft. It gave the President in his discretion power to create local boards to consider claims
for exemption for physical disability or otherwise made
by those called. The act exempted from subjection to
the draft designated United States and state officials as
well as those already in the military or naval service of
the United States, regular or duly ordained ministers of
religion and theological students under the conditions
provided for, and, while relieving from military service
in the strict sense the members of religious sects as enumerated whose tenets excluded the moral right to engage
in war, nevertheless subjected such persons to the performance of service of a non-combatant character to be
defined by the President.
The proclamation of the President calling the persons
designated within the ages described in the statute was
made, and the plaintiffs in error, who were in the class
and under the statute were obliged to present themselves
for registration and subject themselves to the law, failed
to do so and were prosecuted under the statute for the
penalties for which it provided. They all defended by
denying that there had been conferred by the Constitution
upon Congress the power to compel military service by a
selective draft, and asserted that even if such power had
been given by the Constitution to Congress, the terms
of the particular act for various reasons caused it to be
beyond the power and repugnant to the Constitution.
The cases are here for review because of the constitu-

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

tional questions thus raised, convictions having resulted
from instructions of the courts that the legal defences
were without merit and that the statute was constitutional.
The possession of authority to enact the statute must
be found in the clauses of the Constitution giving Congress power "to declare war; .
.
to raise and
support armies, but no appropriation of money to that
use shall be for a longer term than two years;
to make rules for the government and regulation of the
land and naval forces." Article I, § 8. And of course the
powers conferred by these provisions like all other powers
given carry with them as provided by the Constitution
the authority "to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers." Article I, § 8.
As the mind cannot conceive an army without the men
to compose it, on the face of the Constitution the objection
that it does not give power to provide for such men would
seem to be too frivolous for further notice. It is said,
however, that since unaer the *Constitution as originally
framed state citizenship was primary and United States
citizenship but derivative and dependent thereon, therefore the power conferred upon Congress to raise armies
was only coterminous with United States citizenship and
could not be exerted so as to cause that citizenship to lose
its dependent character and dominate state citizenship.
But the proposition simply denies to Congress the power
to raise armies which the Constitution gives. That power
by the very terms of the Constitution, being delegated, is
supreme. Article VI. In truth the contention simply
assails the wisdom of the framers of the Constitution in
conferring authority on Congress and in not retaining it
as it was under the Confederation in the several States.
Further it is said, the right to provide is not denied by
calling for volunteer enlistments, but it does not and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

cannot include the power to exact enforced military duty
by the citizen. This however but challenges the existence of all power, for a governmental power which has
no sanction to it and which therefore can only be exercised provided the citizen consents to its exertion is in
no substantial sense a power. It is argued, however, that
although this is abstractly true, it is not concretely so
because as compelled military service is repugnant to a
free government and in conflict with all the great guarantees of the Constitution as to individual liberty, it must
be assumed that the authority to raise armies was intended to be limited to the right to call an army into
existence counting alone upon the willingness of the citizen
to do his duty in time of public need, that is, in time of
war. But the premise of this proposition is so devoid of
foundation that it leaves not even a shadow of ground
upon which to base the conclusion. Let us see if this is
not at once demonstrable. It may not be doubted that
the very conception of a just government and its duty
to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation of the
citizen to render military service in case of need and the
right to compel it. Vattel, Law of Nations, Book III,
c. 1 & 2. To do more than state the proposition is absolutely unnecessary in view of the practical illustration
afforded by the almost universal legislation to that effect
now in force.' In England it is certain that before the
1 In

the argument of the Government it is stated: "The Statesman's
Year-book for 1917 cites the following governments as enforcing military service: Argentine Republic, p. 656; Austria-Hungary, p. 667;
Belgium, p. 712; Brazil, p. 738; Bulgaria, p. 747; Bolivia, p. 728; Colombia, p. 790; Chile, p. 754; China, p. 7 70; Denmark, p. 811; Ecuador,
p. 820; France, p. 841; Greece, p. 1001; Germany, p. 914; Guatemala,
p. 1009; Honduras, p. 1018; Italy, p. 1036; Japan, p. 1064; Mexico,
p. 1090; Montenegro, p. 1098; Netherlands, p. 1119; Nicaragua, p.
1142; Norway, p. 1152; Peru, p. 1191; Portugal, p. 1201; Roumania,
p. 1220; Russia, p. 1240; Serbia, p. 1281; Siam, p. 1288; Spain, p. 1300;
Switzerland, p. 1337; Salvador, p. 1270; Turkey, p. 1353." See also

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

Norman Conquest the duty of the great militant body
of the citizens was recognized and enforcible. Blackstone, Book I, c. 13. It is unnecessary to follow the long
controversy between Crown and Parliament as to the
branch of the government in which the power resided,
since there never was any doubt that it somewhere resided. So also it is wholly unnecessary to explore the
situation for the purpose of fixing the sources whence in
England it came to be understood that the citizen or the
force organized from the militia as such could not without
their consent be compelled to render service in a foreign
country, since there is no room to contend that such
principle ever rested upon any challenge of the right of
Parliament to impose compulsory duty upon the citizen
to perform military duty wherever the public exigency
exacted, whether at home or abroad. This is exemplified
by the present English Service Act.'
In the Colonies before the separation from England
there cannot be the slightest doubt that the right to enforce military service was unquestioned and that practical
effect was given to the power in many cases. Indeed
the recent Canadian conscription act, entitled, "Military Service Act"
of August 27, 1917, expressly providing for service abroad (printed in
the Congressional Record of September 20, 1917, 55th Cong. Rec.,
p. 7959); the Conscription Law of the Orange Free State, Law No. 10,
1899, Military Service and Commando Law, sections 10 and 28, Laws
of Orange River Colony, 1901, p. 855; of the South African Republic,
"De Locale Wetten en Volksraadsbesluiten der Zuid- Afr. Republiek,"
1898, Law No. 20, pp. 230, 233, article 6, 28; Constitution, German
Empire, April 16, 1871, Art. 57, 59, Dodd, 1 Modem Constitutions, p.
344; Gesetz, betreffend Aenderungen der Wehrpflicht, vom 11 Feb.
1888, No. 1767, Reichs-Gesetzblatt, p. 11, amended by law of July 22,
1913, No. 4264, RGBI., p. 593; Loi sur le recrutement de l'armde of
15 July, 1889 (Duvergier, vol. 89, p. 440), modified by act of 21
March, 1905 (Duvergier, vol. 105, p. 133).
1Military Service Act , January 27, 1916, 5 and 6 George V, c. 104,
p. 367, amended by the Military Service Act of May 25, 1916, 2nd
session, 6 and 7, George V, c. 15, p. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the brief of the Government contains a list of Colonial
acts manifesting the power and its enforcement in more
than two hundred cases. And this exact situation existed
also after the separation. Under the Articles of Confederation it is true Congress had no such power, as its authority was absolutely limited to making calls upon the
States for the military forces needed to create and maintain the army, each State being bound for its quota as
called. But it is indisputable that the States in response
to the calls made upon them met the situation when they
deemed it necessary by directing enforced military service
on.the part of the citizens. In fact the duty of the citizen
to render military service and the power to compel him
against his consent to do so was expressly sanctioned by
the constitutions of at least nine of the States, an illustration being afforded by the following provision of the
Pennsylvania constitution of 1776. "That every member
of society hath a right to be protected in the enjoyment
of life, liberty and property, and therefore is bound to
contribute his proportion towards the expense of that
protection, and yield his personal service when necessary,
or an equivalent thereto." Art. 8, (Thorpe, American
Charters, Constitutions and Qrganic Laws, vol. 5, pp.
3081, 3083.) 1 While it is true that the States were sometimes slow in exerting the power in order to fill their
quotas-a condition shown by resolutions of Congress
calling upon them to comply by exerting their compulsory
power to draft and by earnest requests by Washington
to Congress that a demand be made upon the States to
'See also Constitution of Vermont, 1777, c. 1, Art. 9 (Thorpe, vol. 6,
pp. 4747, 3740); New York, 1777, Art. 40 (id., vol. 5, p. 2637); Massachusetts Bill of Rights, 1780, Art. 10 (id., vol. 3, p. 1891); New
Hampshire, 1784, pt. 1, Bill of Rights, Art. 12 (id., vol. 4, p. 2455);
Delaware, 1776, Art. 9 (id., vol. 1, pp. 562, 564); Maryland, 1776,
Art. 33 (id., vol. 3, pp. 1686, 1696); Virginia, 1776, Militia (id., vol. 7,
p. 3817); Georgia, 1777, Art. 33, 35 (id., vol. 2, pp. 777, 782).

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

resort to drafts to fill their quotas 1-that

fact serves to

demonstrate instead of to challenge the existence of the
authority. A default in exercising a duty may not be
resorted to as a reason for denying its existence.
When the Constitution came to be formed it may not
be disputed that one of the recognized necessities for its
adoption was the want of power in Congress to raise an
army and the dependence upon the States for their quotas.
In supplying the power it was manifestly intended to
give it all and leave none to the States, since besides the
delegation to Congress of authority to raise armies the
Constitution prohibited the States, without the consent
of Congress, from keeping troops in time of peace or engaging in war. Article I, § 10.
To argue that as the state authority over the militia
prior to the Constitution embraced every citizen, the right
of Congress to raise an army should not be considered as
granting authority to compel the citizen's service in the
army, is but to express in a different form the denial of
the right to call any citizen to the army. Nor is this met
by saying that it does not exclude the right of Congress
to organize an army by voluntary enlistments, that is,
by the consent of the citizens, for if the proposition be
true, the right of the citizen to give consent would be
controlled by the same prohibition which would deprive
Congress of the right to compel unless it can be said that
although Congress had not the right to call because of
state authority, the citizen had a right to obey the call
and set aside state authority if he pleased to do so. And
a like conclusion demonstrates the want of foundation
for the contention that, although it be within the power
to call the citizen into the army without his consent, the
army into which he enters after the call is to be limited
1 Journals of Congress, Ford's ed., Library of Congress, vol. 7,
pp. 262, 263; vol. 10, pp. 199, 200; vol. 13, p. 299. 7 Sparks, Writings
of Washington, pp. 162, 167, 442, 444.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

in some respects to services for which the militia it is
assumed may only be used, since this admits the appropriateness of the call to military service in the army and
the power to make it and yet destroys the purpose for
which the call is authorized-the raising of armies to be
under the control of the United States.
The fallacy of the argument results from confounding
the constitutional provisions concerning the militia with
that conferring upon Congress the power to raise armies.
It treats them as one while they are different. This is
the militia clause:
"The Congress shall have power
To provide
for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the
Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions; To
provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia,
and for governing such part of them as may be employed
in the service of the United States, reserving to the States,
respectively, the appointment of the officers, and the
authority of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress." Article I, §8.
The line which separates it from the army power is not
only inherently plainly marked by the text of the two
clauses, but will stand out in bolder relief by considering
the condition before the Constitution was adopted and
the remedy which it provided for the military situation
with which it dealt. The right on the one hand of Congress
under the Confederation'to call on the States for forces
and the duty on the other of the States to furnish when
called, embraced the complete power of government over
the subject. When the two were combined and were
delegated to Congress all governmental power on that
subject was conferred, a result manifested not only by the
grant made but by the limitation expressly put upon the
States on the subject. The army sphere therefore embraces such complete authority. But the duty of exerting
the power thus conferred in all its plenitude was not

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

made at once obligatory but was wisely left to depend
upon the discretion of Congress as to the arising of the
exigencies which would call it in part or in whole into
play. There was left therefore under the sway of the
States undelegated the control of the militia to the extent
that such control was not taken away by the exercise by
Congress of its power to raise armies. This did not diminish the military power or curb the full potentiality of
the right to exert it but left an area of authority requiring
to be provided for (the militia area) unless and until by
the exertion of the military power of Congress that area
had been circumscribed or totally disappeared. This,
therefore, is what was dealt with by the militia provision.
It diminished the occasion for the exertion by Congress
of its military power beyond the strict necessities for its
exercise by giving the power to Congress to direct the
organization and training of the militia (evidently to
prepare such militia in the event of the exercise of the
army power) although leaving the carrying out of such
command to the States. It further conduced to the same
result by delegating to Congress the right to call on occasions which were specified for the militia force, thus again
obviating the necessity for exercising the army power to
the extent of being ready for every conceivable contingency. This purpose is made manifest by the provision
preserving the organization of the militia so far as formed
when called for such special purposes although subjecting
the milita when so called to the paramount authority of
the United States. Tarble's Case, 13 Wallace, 397, 408.
But because under the express regulations the power was
given to call for specified purposes without exerting the
army power, it cannot follow that the latter power when
exerted was not complete to the extent of its exertion and
dominant. Because the power of Congress to raise armies
was not required to be exerted to its full limit but only
as in the discretion of Congress it was deemed the public

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

interest required, furnishes no ground for supposing that
the complete power was lost by its partial exertion. Because, moreover, the power granted to Congress to raise
armies in its potentiality was susceptible of narrowing
the area over which the militia clause operated, affords
no ground for confounding the two areas which were distinct and separate to the end of confusing both the powers
and thus weakening or destroying both.
And upon this understanding of the two powers the
legislative and executive authority has been exerted from
the beginning. From the act of the first session of Congress carrying over the army of the Government under
the Confederation to the United States under the Constitution (Act of September 29, 1789, c. 25, 1 Stat. 95)
down to 1812 the authority to raise armies was regularly
exerted as a distinct and substantive power, the force
being raised and recruited by enlistment. Except for
one act formulating a plan by which the entire body of'
citizens (the militia) subject to military duty was to be
organized in every State (Act of May 8, 1792, c. 33, 1
Stat. 271) which was never carried into effect, Congress
confined itself to providing for the organization of a specified number distributed among the States according to
their quota to be trained as directed by Congress and to
be called by the President as need might require.' When
the War of 1812 came the result of these two forces composed the army to be relied upon by Congress to carry on
the war. Either because it proved to be weak in numbers
or because of insubordination developed among the forces
called and manifested by their refusal to cross the border, 2
'Act of May 9, 1794, c. 27, 1 Stat. 367; Act of February 28, 1795,
c. 36, 1 Stat. 424; Act of June 24, 1797, c. 4, 1 Stat. 522; Act of March
3, 1803, c. 32, 2 Stat. 241; Act of April 18, 1806, c. 32, 2 Stat. 383; Act
of March 30, 1808, c. 39, 2 Stat. 478; Act of April 10, 1812, c. 55, 2
Stat. 705.
2 Upton, Military Policy of the United States, pp. 99 ot seq.

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

the Government determined that the exercise of the power
to organize an army by compulsory draft was necessary
and Mr. Monroe, the Secretary of War, (Mr. Madison
being President) in a letter to Congress recommended
several plans of legislation on that subject. It suffices
to say that by each of them it was proposed that the
United States deal directly with the body of citizens
subject to military duty and call a designated number out
of the population between the ages of 18 and 45 for service in the army. The power which it was recommended be
exerted was clearly an unmixed federal power dealing
with the subject from the sphere of the authority given
to Congress to raise armies and not from the sphere of
the right to deal with the militia as such, whether organized or unorganized. A bill was introduced giving effect
to the plan. Opposition developed, but we need not stop
to consider it because it substantially rested upon the
incompatibility of compulsory military service with free
government, a subject which from what we have said
has been disposed of. Peace came before the bill was
enacted.
Down to the Mexican War the legislation exactly portrayed the same condition of mind which we have previously stated. In that war, however, no draft was suggested, because. the army created by the United States
immediately resulting from the exercise by Congress of
its power to raise armies, that organized under its direction from the militia and the volunteer commands which
were furnished, proved adequate to carry the war to a
successful conclusion.
So the course of legislation from that date to 1861
affords no ground for any other than the same conception
of legislative power which we have already stated. In
that year when the mutterings of the dread conflict which
was to come began to be heard and the Proclamation of
the President calling a force into existence was issued it

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

was addressed to the body organized out of the militia
and trained by the States in accordance with the previous
acts of Congress. (Proclamation of April 15, 1861, 12
Stat. 1258.) That force being inadequate to meet the
situation, an act was passed authorizing the acceptance
of 500,000 volunteers by the President to be by him organized into a national army. (Act of July 22, 1861,
c. 9, 12 Stat. 268.) This was soon followed by another
act increasing the force of the militia to be organized by
the States for the purpose of being drawn upon when
trained under the direction of Congress (Act of July 29,
1861, c. 25, 12 Stat. 281), the two acts when considered
together presenting in the clearest possible form the distinction between the power of Congress to raise armies
and its authority under the militia clause. But it soon
became manifest that more men were required. As a result the Act of March 3, 1863, c. 75, 12 Stat. 731, was
adopted entitled "An Act for enrolling and calling out
the National Forces and for other purposes." By that
act which was clearly intended to directly exert upon
all the citizens of the United States the national power
which it had been proposed to exert in 1814 on the recommendation of the then Secretary of War, Mr. Monroe,
every male citizen of the United States between the ages
of twenty and forty-five was made subject by the direct
action of Congress to be called by compulsory draft to
service in a national army at such time and in such numbers as the President in his discretion might find necessary. In that act, as in the one of 1814, and in this one,
the means by which the act was to be enforced were
directly federal and the force to be raised as a result of
the draft was therefore typically national as distinct from
the call into active service of the militia as such. And
under the power thus exerted four separate calls for draft
were made by the President and enforced, that of July,
1863, of February and March, 1864, of July and Decem-

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

ber, 1864, producing a force of about a quarter of a million men.' It is undoubted that the men thus raised by
draft were treated as subject to direct national authority
and were used either in filling the gaps occasioned by
the vicissitudes of war in the ranks of the existing national forces or for the purpose of organizing such new
units as were deemed to be required. It would be
childish to deny the value of the added strength which
was thus afforded. Indeed in the official report of the
Provost Marshal General, just previously referred to in
the margin, reviewing the whole subject it was stated
that it was the efficient aid resulting from the forces
created by the draft at a very critical moment of the'
civil strife which obviated a disaster which seemed impending and carried that struggle to a complete and
successful conclusion.
Brevity prevents doing more than to call attention to
the fact that the organized body of militia within the
States as trained by the States under the direction of
Congress became known as the National Guard (Act of
January 21, 1903, c. 196, 32 Stat. 775; National Defense
Act of June 3, 1916, c. 134, 39 Stat. 211). And to make
further preparation from among the great body of the
citizens, an additional number to be determined by the
President was directed to be organized and trained by,
the States as the National Guard Reserve. (National
Defense Act, supra.)
Thus sanctioned as is the act before us by the text of
the Constitution, and by its significance as read in the
light of the fundamental principles with which the subject is concerned, by the power recognized and carried
into effect in many civilized countries, by the authority
and practice of the colonies before the Revolution, of the
States under the Confederation and of the Government
'Historical Report, Enrollment Branch, Provost Marshal General's
-Bureau, March 17, 1866.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

since the formation of the Constitution, the want of
merit in the contentions that the act in the particulars
which we have been previously called upon to consider
was beyond the constitutional power of Congress, is
manifest. Cogency, however, if possible, is added to the
demonstration' by pointing out that in the only case to
which we have been referred where the constitutionality
of the Act of 1863 was contemporaneously challenged
on grounds akin to, if not absolutely identical with, those
here urged, the validity of the act was maintained for
reasons not different from those which control our judgment. (Kneedler v. Lane, 45 Pa. St. 238.) And as further
evidence that the conclusion we reach is but the inevitable consequence of the provisions of the Constitution
as effect follows cause, we briefly recur to events in another
environment. The seceding States wrote into the constitution which was adopted to regulate the government
which they sought to establish, in identical words the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States which
we here have under consideration. And when the right
to enforce under that instrument a selective draft law
which was enacted, not differing in principle from the
one here in question, was challenged, its validity was upheld, evidently after great consideration, by the courts
of Virginia, of Georgia, of Texas, of Alabama, of Mississippi and of North Carolina, the opinions in some of
the cases copiously and critically reviewing the whole
grounds which we have stated. Burroughs v. Peyton,
16 Gratt. 470; Jeffers v. Fair, 33 Georgia, 347; Daly and
Fitzgerald v. Harris, 33 Ga. (Supp.) 38, 54; Barber v.
Irwin, 34 Georgia, 27; Parker v. Kaughman, 34 Georgia,
136; Ex parte Coupland, 26 Texas, 386; Ex parte Hill,
38 Alabama, 429; In re Emerson, 39 Alabama, 437; In re
Pille, 39 Alabama., 459; Simmons v. Miller, 40 Mississippi,
19; Gatlin v. Walton, 60 N. Car. 333, 408.
In reviewing the subject, we have hitherto considered

SELECTIVE DRAFT LAW CASES.
366.

Opinion of the Court.

it as it has been argued, from the point of view of the
Constitution as it stood prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment. But to avoid all misapprehension
we briefly direct attention to that Amendment for the
purpose of pointing out, as has been frequently done in
the past,1 how completely it broadened the national
scope of the Government under the Constitution by
causing citizenship of the United States to be paramount
and dominant instead of being subordinate and derivative, and therefore, operating as it does upon all the
powers conferred by the Constitution, leaves no possible
support for the contentions made, if their want of merit
was otherwise not so clearly made manifest.
It remains only to consider contentions which, while
not disputing power, challenge the act because of the
repugnancy to the Constitution supposed to result from
some of its provisions. First, we are of opinion that the
contention that the act is void as a delegation of federal
power to state officials because of some of its administrative features, is too wanting in merit to require further
notice. Second, we think that the contention that the
statute is void because vesting administrative officers
with legislative discretion has been so completely adversely settled as to require reference only to some of
the decided cases. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Intermountain Rate Cases, 234
U. S. 476; First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244
U. S. 416. A like conclusion also adversely disposes of a
similar claim concerning the conferring of judicial power.
Buitfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 497; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80; Oceanic Steam Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 338-340; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S.
272, 275. And we pass without anything but statement
I Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 72-74, 94-95, 112-113; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 549; Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135,
140; McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

the proposition that an establishment of a religion or an
interference with the free exercise thereof repugnant to
the First Amendment resulted from the exemption clauses
of the act to which we at the outset referred, because we
think its unsoundness is too apparent to require us to do
more.
Finally, as we are unable to conceive upon what theory
the exaction by government from the citizen of the performance of his supreme and noble duty of contributing
to the defense of the rights and honor of the nation, as
the result of a war declared by the great representative
body of the people, can be said to be the imposition of
involuntary servitude in violation of the prohibitions of
the Thirteenth Amendment, we are constrained to the
conclusion that the contention to that effect is refuted
by its mere statement.
Affirmed.

JONES v. PERKINS, DEPUTY UNITED STATES
MARSHAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 738.

Argued December 13, 14, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

Petitioner sought habeas corpus upon the ground that the Selective
Draft Law, for disobedience of which he was arrested, was unconstitutional. The constitutional questions he raises having all
been decided adversely to him in the Selective Draft Law Cases, ante,
366, the court affirms the trial court's order refusing the writ, without, however, departing from the general principle that habeas
corpus should not anticipate trial in criminal cases, in the absence
of exceptional circumstances, and without inquiring whether in
this case such circumstances existed.
243 Fed. Rep. 997, affirmed.

