DAY v. UNITED STATES.
154.

Syllabus.

from public access. We see nothing in the case of the
plaintiffs in error that requires further answers that might
be made, or discussion at greater length.
Judgment affirmed.

DAY ET AL., PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM
NAME OF J. G. & I. N. DAY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 43. Argued November 13, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.
Modern tendencies to depart from the strict letter in discovering intent
do not alter the principle that, within the scope of his undertaking,
a party contracting assumes the risks of intervening obstacles.
A contractor agreed with the United States to furnish, at specified
rates, such labor and material in place as might be necessary to complete a canal and locks, already built in part, the total payment not
to exceed a sum fixed in acts of Congress authorizing the contract.
The Government had erected a bulkhead, deemed of sufficient
height, to safeguard the work from river floods; the contract, however, did not guarantee protection, referring to freshets, and other
natural causes, merely as grounds for time extension. The contractor had been required to base his proposal upon personal investigation, and the specifications provided that he should be held
responsible, without expense to the Government, for the preservation and good condition of the work already in place, and that to
be added from time to time under the contract, until the contract
should be terminated or the whole work turned over in a completed
condition as required. To protect the work from an extraordinary
flood which exceeded the bulkhead, the contractor necessarily expended work and materials in building new structures, for which he
sought reimbursement in the Court of Claims. Held, that the contract was for the completion of the works and that the cost of protecting them from floods in the meantime'was within the contractor's undertaking.
48 Ct. Clms. 128; 50 id. 421, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Carter,with whom Mr. FrankCarterPope
was on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by a contractor to recover for work and
material furnished to build a bulkhead and temporary
dams in order to protect a canal and locks at the cascades
of the Columbia River against an extraordinary flood.
The facts of the case are simple. An Act of Congress of
July 13, 1892, c. 158, 27 Stat. 109, appropriated $326,250
for continuing an improvement at the cascades that had
been under way for a number of years, and authorized
a contract for completing it, to be paid for as subsequent
further appropriations, not exceeding $1,419,250, should
be made. On December 27, 1892, the claimants made a
contract to "furnish such labor and material in place,"
etc., "as may be necessary to complete" the canal and
locks, at certain rates, the total of all payments not to
exceed $1,745,500, the amount of the two just-mentioned
sums. The contractor was required in the usual way to
base his proposal upon his personal investigation and the
specifications provided in reiterated words that the contractor would "be held responsible, without expense to
the government, for the preservation and good condition
of all the work now in place, and such as he may, from
time to time, under this contract put in place, until the
termination of the contract, or until the whole work is
turned over to the %governmentin a completed condition,
as required."
The Government had built a bulkhead to protect the

DAY v. UNITED STATES.
159.

Opinion of the Court.

work, 142 feet high, which was the height of the projected
work and was supposed to be high enough for floods, but
in May and June, 1894, the flood in question rose three
feet above it, necessitating the extra work now sued for,
and leading to a change in the project so as to add six
feet to the height of the protecting dam. The Government, however, had not guaranteed that the bulkhead
should be sufficient or that it would protect the work while
going on. On the contrary the contract contemplated,
in terms, that the contractor might be prevented from
commencing or completing the work by freshets or other
forces or violence of the elements and provided in that
event that the representative of the United States might
allow such additional time as in his judgment should be
just and reasonable, but gave no other relief.
One who makes a contract never can be absolutely certain that he will be able to perform it when the time comes,
and the very essence of it is that he takes the risk within
the limits of his undertaking. The modern cases may
have abated somewhat the absoluteness of the older ones
in determining the scope of the undertaking by the literal
meaning of the words alone. The Kronprinzessin Cecilie,
244 U. S. 12, 22. But when the scope of the undertaking
is fixed, that is merely another way of saying that the
contractor takes the risk of the obstacles to that extent.
Carnegie Steel Co. v. United States, 240 U. S. 156, 164.
Globe Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540,
543, 544. There can be no doubt of the scope of the undertaking in this case. If the unqualified agreement to complete the work were not enough by itself, Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Hoyt, 149 U. S. 1, 14, 15,
the provisions to which we have referred would make it
plain. Freshets were contemplated as possible but were
not allowed to qualify the absoluteness of the contractor's
promise, beyond the possibility that they might be considered in the discretion of the other party on the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

of time. It is impossible for us to say that if the flood had
destroyed the work that the claimants had added and for
which they had received nearly $300,000, they would
have been excused under the contract from replacing
what they had done.
It follows, without the need of referring to clauses in the
contract excluding claims for extra work, that if the
claimants put up temporary defences against the water,
even though not bound to do so by the contract, they
were doing what it was for their own interest and safety
to do, and that in the absence of an actual contract to
pay for it by the other party there is no ground for shifting
the cost on to the United States. The arguments that
are based by the claimants upon public documents outside of the record do not seem to us to raise a doubt that
the construction adopted and conclusion reached by the
Court of Claims were correct.
Judgment affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING COAL & IRON COMPANY v. GILBERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 454.

Argued November 6, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.

A Pennsylvania corporation was sued in New York, where it transacted
but a part of its business, upon a cause of action for personal injuries
arising in Pennsylvania, and the summons was served upon a New
York agent which it had designated to receive service of process,
conformably to the New York laws. It moved to set aside the
service as void in that consent to be sued in New York could be implied only in respect of causes arising out of its business there, and
that the attempt to compel it to respond to the action was an invasion of its rights under the Constitution, particularly ยง 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Held that, as the motion did not draw

