SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. STEWART.
Counsel for Parties.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. STEWART.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 348. Motion to dismiss submitted November 5, 1917.-Decided December 17, 1917.
Where the complaint states a cause of action against a common carrier for loss or damage in transit to goods shipped in interstate
commerce, the case is removable from the state to the District
Court, as one arising under a law of the United States (the Carmack Amendment) if, as required by the Act of January 20, 1914,
c. 11, 38 Stat. 278, the amount in controversy exceeds the sum or
value of $3,000.00, exclusive of interest and costs.
In a case of interstate shipment governed by the Carmack Amendment, it is to be presumed-the complaint being silent on the subject-that the carrier issued a receipt or bill of lading, as the Amendment requires.
Though an action be removable from the state to the District Court
as one arising under a federal law, yet, if the defendant remove it
upon a petition resting solely on the ground of diverse citizenship,
the jurisdiction of the District Court must be deemed to have been
invoked upon that ground alone, and, consequently, under Judicial
Code, §§ 128, 241, a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
the case is not reviewable in this court by writ of error.
Writ of error to review 233 Fed. Rep. 956, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas Armstrong, Jr., and Mr. P. H. Hayes for
defendant in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. Henley C. Booth and Mr. William F. Herrin for

plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion.
case was restored to the docket for rehearing January 28,
1918. For the reasons, see memorandum opinion, infra, 562.
1This

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY

245 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Frank R. Stewart began this action against the Southern Pacific Company, a common carrier, in the Superior
Court of Arizona for the County of Maricopa. In his
complaint he set out that he delivered certain cattle to
the Southern Pacific Company to be carried from San
Luis Obispo, California, to Phoenix, Arizona, in consideration of the freight to be paid to the Company as
measured by the rate applicable to the shipment and
carriage of live stock in car-load lots from the point of
shipment to the point of destination as the same was
published and on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission. The complaint alleged that in consideration of
the freight charges the Company undertook to deliver
the cattle in good condition at Phoenix, Arizona, and set
forth that the cattle were handled and transported in
such a negligent and careless manner that five of them
died in Yuma, Arizona, a station on the line of the Company; that the remainder were delivered to the plaintiff
at Phoenix, Arizona, in such injured condition that six
more of them died, and eighty-seven of them were seriously injured, and depreciated in value as a result of negligent handling and transportation of the cattle as set forth
in the complaint.
The Company upon petition and bond duly filed removed the case to the United States District Court for
the District of Arizona, the same was tried in the District
Court, and resulted in a verdict and judgment against
the Company, which was affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a writ of
error brings the case here.
The case is before us on motion to dismiss on the ground
.that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
The judgment of'the Circuit Court of Appeals is final,
#mong other cases, in those in which the jurisdiction,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. STEWART.
359.

Opinion of the Court.

meaning that of the District Court, is dependent entirely
upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being
citizens of different States. (Judicial Code, § 128; 36 Stat.
1157.)
The removal to the District Court of the United States
was made upon a petition which set forth as a ground for
removal the diversity of citizenship of the parties; no
other ground for removal was in any manner alleged in
the petition.
A suit is removable from a state court to the United
States District Court when it arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made under
their authority, and of which the District Courts of the
United States are given original jurisdiction; any other suit
of a civil nature at law or in equity, of which the District
Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction, may
be removed into the District Court of the United States
by the defendant, or defendants, being nonresidents of
the State. (Judicial Code, § 28.)
By the amendment of January 20, 1914, 38 Stat. 278,
it is provided that no suit brought in any state court of
competent jurisdiction against a railroad company, or
other common carrier, to recover damages for delay, loss
of, or injury to property received for transportation by
such common carrier, under § 20 [which includes the
Carmack Amendment] of the act to regulate interstate
commerce as amended, shall be removed to any court of
the United States where the amount in controversy does
not exceed, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value of $3,000.00. In this case the plaintiff sought to
recover more than $3,000.00, and in view of the allegations of the complaint it may be conceded that the action
being for loss or injtiry to cattle shipped in interstate
commerce for transportation by a common carrier this
suit is one which arose under a law of the United States,
and might have been removed to a federal court on that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
'Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

ground. See Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wall, 241 U. S.
87; Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling
Co., 241 U. S. 190; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319; St. Louis, Iron
Mt. & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592, 595,
596, 597.
The Carmack Amendment requires the carrier receiving
property for transportation between points in different
States to issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and
makes the carrier liable to the lawful holder thereof for
any loss, damage or injury to such property. While there
is no specific allegation in the complaint that such bill
of lading or receipt was issued, as the law makes it the
duty of the carrier to issue the same the presumption is
that such duty was complied with. Cincinnati, New
Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, supra, 319,
327; New York Central &c. R. R. Co. v. Beaham, 242
U. S. 148, 151.
While it thus appears that the suit might have been
removed to the federal court because of the federal nature
of the cause of action upon which it was brought, it was
nevertheless within the jurisdiction of the state court,
and that court might have proceeded to final judgment
had not the defendant seen fit to remove the suit to the
federal court.
Congress has not only provided for classes of cases
wherein removal may be effected from the state to the
federal courts, but has provided process by which such
removals may be effected. Section 29 of the Judicial
Code provides that the party desiring to remove the suit
from the state court to the United States District Court
may apply for removal by petition duly verified in the
suit in the state court, at the time, or at any time before
the defendant is required by the laws of the State or the
rules of the court to answer or plead to the declaration
of the plaintiff. Provision is also made for the filing of a

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. STEWART.
359.

Opinion of the Court.

bond requiring that the defendant shall enter in the
District Court of the United States within thirty days of
filing such petition a certified copy of the record in the
suit, and for paying costs in the event that the United
States District Court holds that such suit was improperly
removed; it is then made the duty of the state court to
accept the petition and bond and proceed no further in
the suit.
It is essential to the removal of a cause that the petition,
provided for by the statute, be filed with the state court
within the time fixed by statute, unless the time be in some
manner waived. Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
151 U. S. 673. True, there are cases in which it has been
held that a removal may be accomplished after the time
to answer or appear has expired, when the complainant
changes the cause of action by amendment so as to make
a case removable, which was not so before, as in Powers v.
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 169 U. S. 92. Amendments
have been permitted so as to make the allegations of the
removal petition more accurate and certain when the
amendment is intended to set forth in proper form the
ground of removal already imperfectly stated. See Kinney v. Columbia Savings & Loan Assn., 191 U. S. 78, and
the review of previous cases in this court contained in
the opinion in that case.
The petition for removal in this instance made no reference to any ground of removal because of a cause of action
arising upon a federal statute. The petition which required the state court to give up its own jurisdiction, and
transfer the cause to the federal court, was based solely
upon the allegation of diversity of citizenship.
We are thus presented with the question whether a
case removed solely upon the ground of diversity of citizenship, although the complaint contained a cause of action
arising under a federal statute, after judgment in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, may be brought by a writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

error to this court. Cases not made final in the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals may be brought to this
court when the matter in controversy exceeds $1,000.00
besides costs. (Judicial Code, § 241.) As the amount in
controversy herein exceeds $1,000.00 the jurisdiction of
this court depends upon whether the jurisdiction of the
District Court, to which the cause was removed, depended entirely upon the opposite parties being citizens
of different States. The jurisdiction referred to, it has
come to be settled, means the jurisdiction of the United
States District Court as originally invoked. Huguley
Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, and previous cases in this court cited in the opinion of Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, who spoke for the court in that case.
In Macfadden v. United States, 213 U. S. 288, the subject was examined under §§ 5 and 6 of the Court of Appeals
Act now incorporated into the Judicial Code in §§ 128
and 241. Mr. Justice Moody, who spoke for the court
in that case, pointed out that finality of cases in the Circuit Court of Appeals, as governed by § 6, was determined,
not by the nature of the case nor by the questions of law
raised, but by the sources of jurisdiction of the trial court;
whether its jurisdiction rested upon the character of the
parties or the nature of the case, and he quoted with approval the language of Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in Huguley
Mfg. Co. v. Galeton Cotton Mills, supra, wherein it was
said the jurisdiction referred to is the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court "as originally invoked." This principle
was applied in Spencer v. Duplan Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526,
in which a suit was brought by a trustee in bankruptcy
in a state court against the Silk Company to recover in
trover for certain lumber the property of the bankrupt
wrongfully converted, it was alleged, to the use of the
defendant. The case was removed from the state court
upon a petition alleging that the controversy in the suit
was wholly between citizens of different States. A trial

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. STEWART.
359.

Dissent.

was had resulting in a verdict in favor of the plaintiff,
this judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and a writ of error was allowed from this court. The writ of error was dismissed as
being within the rule which made the judgments of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals final when the jurisdiction of
the trial court depended entirely upon diversity of citizenship. Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court,
in the course of the opinion reached the conclusion that
the case was not to be treated as one commenced in the
federal court by consent of the defendant under § 23 of
the Bankruptcy Act. In concluding the discussion of the
subject, the Chief Justice said:
"Plaintiff brought his action in the state court, and
its removal on the ground of diverse citizenship placed it
in the Circuit Court as if it had been commenced there on
that ground of jurisdiction, and not as if it had been commenced there by consent of defendant under section 23
of the bankruptcy act. The right to removal is absolute
and cannot be trammeled by such a consequence."
It may be conceded, for the sake of the argument, that
the grounds of removal might have been amended by
including in the petition the federal ground of action
set up in the complaint, but no attempt at amendment
was made, and the removal to the District Court of the
United States was upon a petition resting solely on the
ground of diverse citizenship. We are of opinion that it
follows that the jurisdiction of the federal court was invoked solely on that ground, and that fact determines
the right to a review in this court of the judgment of the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals against the contention of the plaintiff in error. It follows that the writ
of error must be dismissed.
Dismissed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

