OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

sion of Louisiana, 226 U. S. 99; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer

Works, 237 U. S..413, 418, 419. The reenactment of the
requirement of finality in the Act of 1916 was in the nature
of things an adoption of the construction on the subject
which had prevailed for so long a time.
There being then no final judgment within the contemplation of the Act of 1916, the petition for a writ of
certiorari is
Denied.

CONTRIBUTORS TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 349.

Argued October 16, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

So vital a governmental power as the power, upon just compensation,
to take private property for public use, cannot be divested through
contracts made by the State. Such contracts are not within the
protection of the contract clause of the Constitution.
Proceedings taken by a city to condemn land for a street through the
grounds of a charitable corporation were resisted, in reliance on
an act by which for valuable considerations the legislature had
prohibited such takings without the corporation's consent. The
city undertook to condemn not only the land but also the right under
the contract. Held, that the contract could not be successfully opposed to the power of condemnation; and this quite apart from the
attempt to condemn the contract right itself, since, if the contract
exemption were otherwise valid, its defeat by such a method would
be a mere evasion.
Without departing from the settled rule that a writ of error will be
dismissed if its total want of merit is shown conclusively by decisions
of this court extant at time of decision below, in this case the course
and resulting aspect of the proceedings below warrant a decree of
affirmance.
254 Pa. St. 392, affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL v. PHILADELPHIA.
20.

21

Opinion of the Court.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Owen J. Roberts, with whom Mr. Charles Biddle and

Mr. J. Rodman Paul were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. John P. Connelly and Mr. Ernest Lowengrund,

with whom Mr. Joseph G. Magee was on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Whether contract obligations were impaired in violation
of rights of the plaintiff in error protected by the Constitution of the United States as the result of the decision
below, is the sole question we are called upon to decide

on this record. It thus arises:
The plaintiff in error, a charitable institution, was organized under the laws of Pennsylvania and in 1841 it
established on a tract of land in the City of Philadelphia
a hospital for the care and cure of the insane. Solicitous
lest the opening of streets, lanes and alleys through its
grounds might injuriously affect the performance of its
work, in 1854 a committee of the managers of the hospital
memorialized the legislature on that subject and this resulted in the passage of a law specially forbidding the
opening of any street or alley through the grounds in

question without the consent of the hospital authorities.
The act was conditioned upon the hospital making certain payments and furnishing ground for a designated
public street or streets and these terms were accepted by
the hospital and complied with. In 1913 the city, within
the authority conferred upon it by the State, took the
necessary preliminary steps to acquire by eminent domain
land for the opening of a street through the hospital

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

grounds and to prevent the accomplishment of this result
the present suit was begun by the hospital to protect its
right of property and its alleged contract under the Act of
1854. As the result of proceedings in the state court the
purpose of the city was so shaped as to cause it to seek to
take under the right of eminent domain not only the land
desired for the street, but the rights under the contract of
1854, and there was a judgment against the hospital and
in favor of the city in the trial court which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court by the judgment which is under
review on this writ of error. 254 Pa. St. 392.
The conclusions of the court were sustained in a per
curiam opinion pointing out that there was no question
involved of impairing the contract contained in the Act of
1854 since the express purpose of the city was to exert
the power of eminent domain not only as to the land
proposed to be taken, but as to the contract itself. The
right to do both was upheld on the ground that the power
of eminent domain was so inherently governmental in
character and so essential for the public welfare that it
was not susceptible of being abridged by agreement and
therefore the action of the city in exerting that power
was not repugnant either to the state constitution or to
the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States.
It is apparent that the fundamental question, therefore, is, did the Constitution of the United States prevent
the exertion of the right of eminent domain to provide
for the street in question because of the binding effect of
the contract previously made excluding the right to open
the street through the land without the consent of the
hospital. We say this is the question since if the possibility were to be conceded that power existed to restrain
by contract the further exercise by government of its
right to exert eminent domain, it would be unthinkable
that the existence of such right of contract could be ren-

PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL v. PHILADELPHIA.
20.

23

Opinion of the Court.

dered unavailing by directing proceedings in eminent
domain against the contract, for this would be a mere
evasion of the assumed power. On the other hand, if
there can be no right to restrain by contract the power of
eminent domain, it must also of necessity follow that any
contract by which it was sought to accomplish that result
would be inefficacious for want of power. And these
considerations bring us to weigh and decide the real and
ultimate question, that is, the right to take the property
by eminent domain, which embraces within itself, as the
part is contained in the whole, any supposed right of contract limiting or restraining that authority. We are of
opinion that the conclusions of the court below in so far
as they dealt with the contract clause of the Constitution
of the United States were clearly not repugnant to such
clause. There can be now, in view of the many decisions
of this court on the subject, no room for challenging the
general proposition that the States cannot by virtue of the
contract clause be held to have divested themselves by
contract of the right to exert their governmental authority in matters which from their very nature so concern
that authority that to restrain its exercise by contract
would be a renunciation of power to legislate for the
preservation of society or to secure the performance of
essential governmental duties. Beer Company v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814;
Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746;
Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488; Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473; Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller,
221 U. S. 408. And it is unnecessary to analyze the decided cases for the purpose of fixing the criteria by which
it is to be determined in a given case whether a power
exerted is so governmental in character as not to be subject to be restrained by the contract clause, since it is
equally true that the previous decisions of this court leave
no doubt that the right of government to exercise its

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

power of eminent domain upon just compensation for a
public purpose comes within this general doctrine. Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; West River
Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507; New Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Long Island Water
Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Offield v. New York,
New Haven & HartfordR. R. Co., 203 U. S. 372; Cincinnati
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390.
The principle then upon which the contention under
the Constitution rests having been, at the time the case
was decided below, conclusively settled to be absolutely
devoid of merit, it follows that a dismissal for want of
jurisdiction might be directed. Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 314; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk &e. Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596, 600; Manhattan Life Insurance Co. v. Cohen, 234 U. S. 123, 137.
In view, however, of the course of the proceedings below
and the aspect which the case took as resulting from those
proceedings, without departing from th6 rule settled by
the cases referred to, we think our decree may well be
one, not of dismissal, but of affirmance.
Affirmed.

LEE WILSON & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110.

Argued October 4, 5, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

If, in the making of a survey of public lands, an area is through fraud
or mistake meandered as a body of water or lake where no such body
of water exists, riparian rights do not accrue to the surrounding
lands, and the Land Department, upon discovering the error, has

