OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

245 U. S.

"I will ask you if you have any knowledge of funds of
the Louisville & Nashville Railroad or the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway used for political campaign purposes in the State of Tennessee?
"Do you know of any funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad expended in the State of Tennessee for
political campaign purposes and charged on the books of
that carrier to operating expense or construction account?"
The questions are similar to those passed on in the other
two cases, and the order is
Aflirmed.

COHEN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF SAMUELS, v. SAMUELS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 359.

Argued October 17, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

A policy of insurance held by a bankrupt, which has a cash surrender
value at the time of the adjudication, becomes an asset, to the extent
of such value, in the trustee, under ยง 70-a of the Bankruptcy Act,
even when the policy is payable to a beneficiary other than the
bankrupt, his estate or personal representatives, if the bankrupt
has reserved absolute power to change the beneficiary.
237 Fed. Rep. 796, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lawrence B. Cohen, with whom Mr. Adolph Boskowitz was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel Sturtz for respondent.

COHEN v. SAMUELS.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
On May 13, 1915, Elias W. Samuels filed a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy and was adjudicated a bankrupt.
On the same day Cohen, petitioner herein, was duly
elected his trustee. Samuels at the time of the adjudication held five life insurance policies in various life insurance companies.
On September 16, 1915, Cohen made motions before the
referee in bankruptcy to require Samuels to deliver to
him, Cohen, the policies or pay to him the cash surrender
value of them as of the date of the adjudication. The
motions were denied.
Subsequently Cohen filed petitions to review the rulings
of the referee as to three of the policies, which petitions
came on for hearing before the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York February 14, 1916.
The policies were respectively for the sums of $3,000,
$3,000 and $1,000 and had respectively a cash surrender
value of $193.85, $753, subject to a deduction of a loan
of $555 and interest, and $396. The policies were payable
to certain relatives of Samuels as beneficiaries and it was
provided in each that Samuels reserved the absolute right
to change the beneficiary without the latter's consent.
The District Court affirmed the orders of the referee,
following what the court conceived to be the ruling in
In re Hammel & Co., 221 Fed. Rep. 56.
Cohen petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals to revise
the ruling of the District Court as provided in ยง 24-b of
the Bankruptcy Act and for such other and further relief
as might be proper.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling of the
District Court, one judge dissenting. 237 Fed. Rep. 796.
The facts are not in dispute. The policies had a cash
surrender value at the time Samuels was adjudicated a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

bankrupt which the companies were willing to pay to
him and in all of them he had the absolute right to change
the beneficiaries.
The question in the case is the simple one of the construction of ยง 70-a. By it the trustee of the bankrupt is
vested by operation of law with title to all property of
the bankrupt which is not exempt, "(3) powers which.
he might have exercised for his own benefit, but not
those which he might have exercised for some other person, . . . (5) property which prior to the filing of
the petition he could by any means have transferred or
which might have been levied upon and sold under judicial process against him: Provided, That when any bankrupt shall have any insurance policy which has a cash
surrender value payable to himself, his estate, or personal
representatives, he may, within thirty days after the cash
surrender value has been ascertained and stated to the
trustee by the company issuing the same, pay or secure
to the trustee the sum so ascertained and stated, and continue to hold, own, and carry such policy free from the
claims of the creditors participating in the distribution
of his estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, otherwise
the policy shall pass to the trustee as assets;
.
Regarding the section in its entirety there would seem
to be no difficulty in its interpretation, but we are admonished by the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and its reasoning and also by the argument of counsel
that there are considerations which give particular control
to the proviso and distinguish between insurance policies
and other property which the bankrupt can transfer or
which can be levied upon and sold under judicial process
against him (subdivision 5). We have given attention to
those considerations and feel their strength, but they are
opposed by other considerations. It might indeed be
that it would better fulfill the protection of insurance by
considering the proviso alone and literally, regarding the

COHEN v. SAMUELS.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

policy at the moment of adjudication, and, if it be not
payable then in words to the bankrupt-no matter what
rights or powers are reserved by him, no matter what its
pecuniary facility and value is to him-to consider that
he has no property in it. But we think such construction
is untenable. The declaration of subdivision 3 is that
"powers which he might have exercised for his own benefit" "shall in turn be vested" in the trustee, and there is
vested in him as well all property that the bankrupt could
transfer or which by judicial process could be subjected
to his debts, and especially as to insurance policies which
have a cash surrender value payable to himself, his estate
or personal representative. It is true the policies in question here are not so payable, but they can be or could have
been so payable at his own will and by simple declaration.
Under such conditions to hold that there was nothing of
property to vest in a trustee would be to make an insurance policy a shelter for valuable assets and, it might be,
a refuge for fraud. And our conclusions would be the
same if we regarded the proviso alone.
This court has been careful to define the interest of
bankrupts in the insurance policies they may possess.
In Hiscock v. Mertens, 205 U. S. 202, we gave a bankrupt
the benefit of the'redemption of a policy from the claims
of creditors, though a cash surrender value was not provided by it but was recognized by the insurance company.
In Burlingham v. Crouse, 228 U. S. 459, 473, we said that
it "was the purpose of Congress to pass to the trustee
that sum which was available to the bankrupt at the time
of bankruptcy as a cash asset, otherwise to leave to the
insured the benefit of his life insurance." See also Everett
v. Judson, Id. 474. Judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirming the order of the District Court is re-.
versed and the case remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

