UNITED STATES v. NESS.
Counsel for Parties.

315.

until after requisition granted. The Constitution grants
no such immunity. To restrict the right of arrest as
claimed would rob interstate rendition of much of its
efficacy. As no federal right of plaintiffs was denied the
judgments must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 284.

Argued November 5, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

The filing of a certificate of arrival, as provided in § 4, subdivision 2,
of the Naturalization Act, is an essential prerequisite to a valid order
of naturalization.
The court of naturalization having assumed to dispense with this requirement upon proof of reasons why the certificate of arrival could
not be obtained, held, that the certificate of naturalization was subject to be set aside, in a suit by the United States under § 15 of the
act, as a certificate "illegally procured."
Sections 11 and 15 of the Naturalization Act afford cumulative protection against fraudulent or illegal naturalization. In a suit under the
latter to set aside a certificate granted in disregard of an essential
requirement of the statute, the United States is not estopped by the
order of naturalization, although, pursuant to the former section, it
entered its appearance in the naturalization proceedings and there
unsuccessfully raised the same objection.
230 Fed. Rep. 950, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Denis M. Kelleher, with whom Mr. B. J. Price was
on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought under § 15 ' of the Naturalization
Act (June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596), in the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Iowa, to
cancel a certificate of naturalization issued to Ness by
a state court of Iowa on May 21, 1912. The naturalization is alleged to have been "illegally procured," because
the petitioner failed to file with the clerk the certificate
from the Department of Commerce and Labor "stating
the date, place and manner" of arrival as provided in §4,
subdivision second. 2. Ness admitted this failure; but
contended that on the facts hereinafter stated he was

nevertheless entitled to naturalization, and that, in any
event, his right thereto had become res judicata for the
following reason: The United States entered its appearance under § 11 1 (by the chief naturalization examiner of
1 "Sec. 15. That it shall be.the duty of the United States district
attorneys for the respective districts, upon affidavit showing good cause
therefor, to institute proceedings in any court having jurisdiction to
naturalize aliens in the judicial district in which the naturalized citizen
may reside-at the time of bringing the suit, for the purpose of setting
aside and canceling the certificate of citizenship on the ground of fraud
or on the ground that such certificate of citizenship was illegally procured.
.
. . . At the time of filing his petition there
2 "Sec. 4. Second:
shall be filed with the clerk of the court a certificate from the Department of [Commerce and] Labor, if the petitioner arrives in the United
States after the passage of this Act, stating the date, place, and manner
of his arrival in the United States, and the declaration of intention of
such petitioner, which certificate and declaration shall be attached to
and made a part of said petition."
I "Sec. 11. That the United States shall have the right to appear
before any court' or courts exercising jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings for the purpose of cross-examining the petitioner and the witnesses produced in support of his petition concerning any matter touching or in any way affecting his right to admission to citizenship, and

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

the Department of Commerce and Labor) "in opposition
to the granting" of naturalization and submitted a motion
that the petition be dismissed on the ground that the
certificate of arrival was not attached. The motion was
duly considered by the court and denied. Then, after
hearing the petitioner and his witnesses, the order of
naturalization was granted. This bill was filed within six
months thereafter.
The facts relied upon by Ness as entitling him to naturalization, although he had not filed the certificate of
arrival, were as follows:
He emigrated from Norway and arrived at the port of,
Buffalo by rail via Canada in August, 1906. Ignorant
of the requirements of the immigration and naturalization laws of the United States and unobserved by officials
of the Government and of the railroad, he entered this
country without submitting himself to physical examination, without paying the alien head tax, and without
having his entry registered. After filing his petition for
naturalization he learned that it was defective for failure
to file the certificate of arrival and immediately applied
to the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization for such
certificate, but found it could not be furnished, because no
registry of his entry had been made. After receiving his
certificate of naturalization, he offered to pay the head tax
and to submit himself to medical examination; but his
offer was refused. He possessed the personal qualifications which entitle aliens to admission and to citizenship.
The District Court dismissed the bill (217 Fed. Rep.
169). Its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (230 Fed. Rep. 950); and this court granted a
writ of certiorari. The case presents questions of importance in the administration of the Naturalization Act.
shall have the right to call witnesses, produce evidence, and be heard in
opposition to the granting of any petition in naturalization proceed,
ings."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

First: Whether filing the certificate of arrival as provided in §4, subdivision second, is an essential prerequisite
to a valid order of naturalization.
It is urged that the certificate of arrival is merely a form
of proof which the naturalization court has power to dispense with for cause. The uses served by the certificate,
the history of the provision and its relation to other parts
of the act show that this contention is unsound.
Section 1 requires that a registry be made of certain
facts concerning each alien arriving in the United States;
and that "a certificate of such registry with the particulars thereof" be granted to each alien.' Section 5 reIThe requirement of such registry was first introduced by the Act
of June 29, 1906; but its importance in connection with naturalization
had long been recognized and had been pressed upon Congress. The
Commissioner General of Immigration recommended, in his report for
1898, p. 36: "Each arriving immigrant, when admitted to the United
States, should be provided with a landing certificate setting forth the
name, age, sex, birth place of the immigrant, government to which
allegiance is due, the port from which the vessel sailed, the name of the
vessel, the line it belongs to, the port it arrives at, and the date of
landing. The immigrant should be instructed, by means of a circular,
to retain the certificate for presentation when applying for naturalization papers. A record of the facts stated in the said circular [certificate]
as to each immigrant, to be known as an Immigrant Directory should
be kept for each fiscal year by the Bureau of Immigration. An act of
Congress authorizing such a course of procedure and requiring of the
alien presenting himself for naturalization to produce such a certificate
or a duplicate from the Immigrant Directory would facilitate the
work of the courts and go far toward preventing the issuance of fraudulent naturalization papers in future." Without express authority
from Congress the Bureau of Immigration undertook, in 1900, to make
such a registry and issue certificates of arrival (Mr. Bonynge, 40 Cong.
Rec., p. 3644) and in 1902-3 a card system was introduced "by, means
of which such an accurate and accessible record is kept at every port
of arrival that at any subsequent time the name, date of arrival, and
other particulars in regard to every alien entering the United States
can be readily ascertained." (Report of Commissioner General, 1903,
p. 120.) For this reason, while other provisions of the Act of June 29,

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

quires clerks of court to give public notice of each petition
for naturalization filed. Section 6 prohibits courts from
.taking final action upon any petition until 90 days after
such notice has been given. That period is provided so
that the examiners of the Bureau of Naturalization and
others may have opportunity for adequately investigating
whether reasons exist for denial of the petition. The
certificate of arrival is the natural starting point for this
investigation. It aids in ascertaining (a) whether the
petitioner was within any of the classes of aliens who are
excluded from admission by §§ 2 and 38 of the Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898; (b) whether
he is among those who are excluded from naturalization
under § 7 of the Naturalization Act-for political beliefs
or practices; (c) whether he is the same person whose declaration of intention to become a citizen is also attached
to the petition under § 4, subdivision second; (d) whether
the minimum period of five years' continuous residence
prescribed by § 4, subdivision fourth, has been complied
with. The certificate of arrival is in practice deemed so
important that in the regulations issued by te Secretary
of Labor under § 28 "for properly carrying into execution
the various provisions" of the act, the clerk of court is
advised that he "should not commence the execution of
the petition until he has received the certificate of
arrival." 1
1906, did not take effect until 90 days after its passage, (see § 31), it
was possible to make § 1 effective immediately; and nnder § 4, subdivision second, the certificate of arrival is required "if the petitioner
arrives in the United States after the passage of this Act."
IBeginning with regulations issued May 22, 1911, and including
those issued February 15, 1917. (See § 5 of the Regulations.) For a
description of the practice pursued see Report of the Commissioner of
Naturalization for 1914, pp. 22-23. Until Act of March 4, 1913,
creating the Department of Labor, the Bureau of Naturalization was in
the Department of Commerce and Labor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Filing the certificate of arrival being a matter of substance, it is clear that no power is vested in the naturalization court to dispense with it. Section 4 declares: "That
an alien may be admitted to become a citizen of the United
States in the following manner and not otherwise." Section 27 declares: "That substantially the following forms
shall be used in the proceedings to which they relate";
and the form of petition therein prescribed recites:
"Attached hereto and made a part of this petition" is
"the certificate from the Department of [Commerce and]
Labor required by law." Experience and investigation
had taught that the wide-spread frauds in naturalization,
which led to the passage of the Act of June 29, 1906, were,
in large measure, due to the great diversities in local
practice, the carelessness of those charged with duties
in this connection, and the prevalence of perjured testimony in cases of this character. A "uniform rule of naturalization" embodied in a simple and comprehensive
code under federal supervision, was believed to be the only
effective remedy for then existing abuses. And, in view of
the large number of courts to which naturalization of
aliens was entrusted and the multitude of applicants, 1
uniformity and strict enforcement of the law could not be
attained unless the code prescribed also the exact character of proof to be adduced. The value of contemporary
documentary evidence was recognized; and the certificate
of arrival was, therefore, specifically included among the
prerequisites to naturalization.' Naturalization granted
I The average number of aliens naturalized for several years preceding
1906 was estimated at 100,000. Report of Special Commission on
Immigration appointed by the President March 1, 1905 (59th Cong.
1st sess., Doc. 46, p. 26). In the year ending June 30, 1916, 93,911
certificates of naturalization were granted and 11,927 petitions were
denied. Of these, 399 were denied for failure to file certificate of arrival.
Report of Commissioner of Naturalization, pp. 4, 6.
2 The Act of June 29, 1906, embodies in the main the legislation recommended in the Report of the Special Commission. The requirement

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

without the certificate having been filed, is, therefore,
"illegally procured" 1; United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U. S.
472; and it may, at least where the proceedings were ex
parte, be set aside under § 15.
Second: Whether an order entered in a proceeding to
which the United States became a party under § 11 is res
judicata as to matters actually litigated therein, so that
the certificate of naturalization cannot be set aside under
§15, as having been "illegally procured."
This question discussed, and left undecided, in Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S. 227, 238, is, in effect:
Do § 11 and § 15 afford the United States alternative or
cumulative means of protection against illegal or fraudulent naturalization under the Act of June 29, 1906?
The remedy afforded by § 15 for setting aside certificates
of naturalization is broader than that afforded in equity,
independently of statute, to set aside judgments, United
States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Kibbe v. Benson, 17
Wall. 624; but it is narrower in scope than the protection
offered under § 11. Opposition to the granting of a petition for naturalization may prevail, because of objections
to the competency or weight of evidence or the credibility
therein proposed (p. 98) concerning the certificate of arrival was
adopted in terms except that the Commission had proposed it should
apply to all aliens arriving after January 1, 1900. The Report of Special
Examiner Van Deusen, thereto annexed, states (p. 80): "The code
should also specifically set forth the exact proof to be adduced by the
alien and his witnesses as a precedent to the admission of the alien.
Such proof should include documentary or other evidence of the date
and place of birth and a certificate of.immigration showing the date of
arrival and the port or place of entry of the alien into the United
States." See Mr. Hayes, 40 Cong. Rec., pp. 7043-4. Report of Commissioner General of Immigration for 1909, p. 209.
1 In Inre Liberman, 193 Fed. Rep. 301, and In re Hollo, 206 Fed. Rep.
852, where naturalization was refused on this ground, the petitions
were dismissed without prejudice. Compare Report of Commissioner
General of Immigration for 1908, p. 191.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of witnesses, or mere irregularities in procedure. A decision on such minor questions, at least of a state court of
naturalization, is, though clearly erroneous, conclusive
even as against the United States if it entered an appearance under § 11. For Congress did not see fit to provide
for a direct review by writ of error or appeal.' But where
fraud or illegality is charged, the act affords, under § 15, a
remedy by an independent suit "in any court having
jurisdiction to naturalize aliens in the judicial district in
which the naturalized citizen may reside at the time of
bringing the suit." If this suit is brought in the federal
District Court, its decision will also be subject, under the
general law, to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and, on certiorari, by this court. Such an independent
suit necessarily involves considerable delay and expense;
and it may subject the individual to great hardship. On
the other hand, a contest in the court of naturalization is
usually disposed of expeditiously and with little expense.
The interest of all concerned is advanced by encouraging
the presentation of known objections to naturalization
at the earliest possible stage of the proceedings; so that
the petitioner may, if the defects are remediable, remove
them, and if not, may adopt, without delay, such course,
if any, as will ultimately entitle him to citizenship. It
would have defeated this purpose to compel the United
States to refrain from presenting any objection, or the
objection of illegality, in the court of naturalization, unless it is willing to accept the decision of that court as final.
I The bill submitted by the Commission on Naturalization provided
for such appellate proceedings and its proposal was recommended to
the House by the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization as
§ 13 (Report of February 6, 1906, p. 5); but after debate in the Committee of the Whole (40 Cong. Rec., pp. 7784-7787) was stricken from
the bill. The bill proposed by the Commission and recommended by
the House Committee contained in addition (as § 17) the provision for
cancellation proceedings enacted as § 15.

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

It was the purpose of Congress, by providing for appearances under § 11, to aid the court of naturalization in
arriving at a correct decision and so to minimize the necessity for independent suits under § 15. In most cases this
assistance could be given best by an experienced examiner
of the Bureau of Naturalization familiar with the sources
of information. Section 11, unlike § 15, does not specifically provide that action thereunder shall be taken by the
United States district attorneys; and if appearance under
§ 11 on behalf of the Government should be held to create
an estoppel, no good reason appears why it should not
arise equally whether the appearance is by the duly authorized examiner or by the United States attorney.'
But in our opinion § 11 and § 15 were designed to afford
cumulative protection against fraudulent or illegal naturalization. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is therefore
Reversed.
In United States v. Mulvey, 232 Fed. Rep. 513, where an order for
naturalization was cancelled under § 15, on grounds which the Examiner of the Bureau of Naturalization had presented in opposition to the
granting of naturalization, stress was laid upon the fact that the representative of the Bureau was not a law officer of the Government and
that he appeared as amicus curice; but in view of the language of § 11,
the distinction does not seem of importance. See also Report of Commissioner of Naturalization for 1915, pp. 20-21.

