OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

245 U. S.

but the dominant purpose of the reissue statute was to
save to the inventor the future remaining after the reissue.
"I see nothing in the course of plaintiffs or defendants
which would allow a court of equity to conclude that defendants are to be relieved because of intervening rights."
Decree affirmed.

STEVIRMAC OIL & GAS COMPANY v. DITTMAN
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 131.

Submitted October 22, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A party against whom a default judgment had been rendered in the
District Court eighteen months previously, applied there to have it
set aside for lack of personal jurisdiction, alleging that there was no
service and that the return of service, upon which the default was
based, was unauthorized and false. After hearing the application
and affidavits, the court sustained its jurisdiction to enter the judgment and overruled the application. Held, that the proceeding to
set aside the judgment amounted to an independent action, and that
the question of jurisdiction, as it related only to the power of the
court in the original action, could not be made the basis of a direct
writ of error, under Judicial Code, ยง 238, to determine the correctness
of the order overruling the application.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George S. Ramsey, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr.
Malcolm E. Rosser and Mr. Sol H. Kauffman for plaintiff in error, in support of this court's jurisdiction, cited:
Kendall v. American Automatic Loom Co., 198 U. S. 477;

STEVIRMAC OIL & GAS CO. v. DITTMAN.
210.

211

Opinion of the Court.

Merriam v. Saalfield, 241 U. S. 26; Stewart v. Ramsay,
242 U. S. 128; and St. Louis Cotton Comp. Co. v. American
Cotton Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 196.
Mr. Jesse H. Wise, Mr. C. R. Thurlwell and Mr. William
E. Minor for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
On October 4, 1913, the defendants in error brought
suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Oklahoma against The Stevirmac Oil & Gas
Company and Virgil Hicks to recover a money judgment.
Process was issued naming November 3, 1913, as answer
date. On October 15, 1913, the marshal made return
certifying that he had delivered a copy of the summons
to Virgil Hicks, Treas., in person, and that the other
defendant named was not served. On November 25,
1913, the court ordered the marshal to amend the return
to conform to the facts, and thereupon the marshal
amended his return so as to certify that he had served
The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company by leaving a copy of
the summons with Virgil Hicks personally and as treasurer of the company at Sapulpa, Oklahoma, in said district, on October 13, 1913, the president, chairman of
the board of directors, or other chief officer not being
found in the district, and Virgil Hicks being in charge
of the place of business of the corporation.
. On December 1, 1913, the court rendered judgment
by default against The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company.
Under the laws of Oklahoma service can be made upon a
corporation's treasurer only when the president, chairman
of the board of directors, or other chief officer, cannot be
found in the jurisdiction, and this fact must be stated in
the return. Cunningham Commission Co. v. Rorer Mill &
Elevator Co., 25 Oklahoma, 133.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

About eighteen months after the default judgment
The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company filed an application
to set aside the default judgment; it was averred that the
Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company, a corporation, was named
in the summons issued with Virgil Hicks; that on October 13, 1913, the United States Marshal delivered to
said Virgil Hicks at Sapulpa, Oklahoma, a copy of the
summons; that at that time H. H. McFann was the president of the corporation and was in the town of Sapulpa,
was well known therein and had a regular place of business
and residence in said town; that Virgil Hicks was not in
charge of the place of business of the defendant corporation; that at the time of the delivery of the copy of the
summons to him the marshal did not tell or inform him in
any way that the copy was for the defendant, The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company, or that said delivery was intended for service upon said defendant corporation, and
that Virgil Hicks understood and believed that the service
was upon him individually; that the United States Marshal inquired of Virgil Hicks for the name of the president
of the defendant corporation and where he could be found,
and was told that H. H. McFann was the president of the
corporation, was then in Sapulpa, Oklahoma, wherein he
could be found; that this constituted all the service of
summons made in the case; that no service was ever made
on McFann or upon The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company;
that on October 15, 1913, the marshal made return certifying that he had delivered a copy of the return to Virgil
Hicks, treasurer, in person at Sapulpa, Oklahoma, the
other defendant named "not served;" that on November
25, 1913, without notice to The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company the court made an order requiring or directing the
marshal to amend the return to conform with the facts;
that thereafter the return was amended so as to certify
that the summons had been served upon The Stevirmac
Oil & Gas Company by handing to and leaving a true

STEVIRMAC OIL & GAS CO. v. DITTMAN.
210.

213

Opinion of the Court.

and attested copy with Virgil Hicks personally, treasurer
of said corporation, at Sapulpa, Oklahoma, on October 13,
1913, the president, chairman of the board of directors,
or other chief officers not being found in the district; that
the said Virgil Hicks was the person in charge of the place
of business of the defendant corporation; that the said
marshal had not at any time served the said summons
on The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company; that plaintiff in
the original suit caused and procured said false amended
return to be made by the said marshal; that The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company had no notice or knowledge
of the said order of the court amending said return until
long after the judgment was rendered; that the record
does not show that the marshal asked leave of court, or
that the court granted leave to make such amended return;
that it is true that the court ordered the marshal to amend
the original return; that said return was complete upon
its face, and that the court had no power to order the
marshal to make another or different return; that, therefore, said judgment was obtained without service of process upon The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company as required
by law, and is void. The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company
filed certain affidavits in support of this application.
Upon hearing the application, with accompanying
affidavits, the court refused to set aside the former judgment and overruled the application of The Stevirmac
Oil & Gas Company. The court made a certificate setting
forth that the order refusing to set aside and vacate the
judgment rendered December 1, 1913, involved and determined the question whether the court had jurisdiction
over the person of The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company;
it being contended that the court had no jurisdiction
to render said judgment on account of lack of jurisdiction
of the person of the defendant, and that the order entered
was a denial of that contention.
The case is brought here solely upon the question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the jurisdiction of the District Court. It was submitted
upon briefs which argue the question of the authority
of the court to order the amendment of the return and
thereby acquire jurisdiction over The Stevirmac Oil &
Gas Company. The plaintiff in error contends that the
proceeding to vacate the judgment was in effect a separate
proceeding, and as it resulted in a judgment refusing to
vacate the former judgment, the latter is final and reviewable here. We agree that it is a final judgment, reviewable in the proper court. The question now presented is whether it can be reviewed by direct writ of
error from this court to the District Court. This court
looks after its own jurisdiction, whether the point is
raised by counsel or not. Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake
Michigan Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379. Section 5 of
the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, now Judicial Code,
ยง 238, 36 Stats. 1157, provides for direct appeals to and
writs of error from this court in cases in which the jurisdiction of the District Court is in issue, in which case the
question of jurisdiction only must be certified here for
decision. Such appeals or writs of error do not bring
here the merits of the controversy, and impose upon this
court the single duty of determining whether the District
Court had jurisdiction of the case. In the present case
wlile it is certified that the jurisdiction of the court rendering the original judgment was presented and decided
against the contention of the plaintiff in error, it is apparent that no question is made concerning the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the proceeding to set aside
the former judgment, and that the real controversy arises
from the attack upon the authority of the court to order
an amendment of the marshal's return, and to render the
original judgment. In such cases we are of opinion that
former decisions of this court have settled the constructior.
of the statute to be against the right to entertain direct
appeals or writs of error upon the question of jurisdiction.

STEVIRMAC OIL & GAS CO. v. DITTMAN.
210.

215

Opinion of the Court.

Carey v. Houston & Texas Central Ry. Co., 150 U. S.
170, presents an action upon a bill in equity to impeach
and set aside a decree of foreclosure in the Circuit Court
on the ground of fraud. It was held that no question of
jurisdiction over that suit could be availed of to sustain a
direct appeal to this court under ยง 5 of the Court of Appeals Act. In that case Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking
for the court, expounding the fifth section of the Act of
March 3, 1891, said:
"But the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, does
not authorize a direct appeal to this court in a suit upon
a question involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
over another suit previously determined in the same
court. It is the jurisdiction of the court below over the
particular case in which the appeal from the decree therein
is prosecuted, that, being in issue and decided against the
party raising it and duly certified, Justifies such appeal
directly to this court. This suit to impeach the decree
of May 4, 1888, and to prevent the consummation of the
alleged plan of reorganization, was a separate and distinct case, so far as this inquiry is concerned, from the
suit to foreclose the mortgages on the railroad property;
and no question of jurisdiction over the foreclosure suit
or the rendition of the decree passed therein can be availed
of to sustain the present appeal from the decree in this
proceeding.
"The collusion and fraud charged in the institution
and conduct of the prior litigation, and in the procurement of the decree against the railway company, and in
the other transactions in respect of which relief was sought
against the defendants, seem to form the gravamen' of
the case; but whether the bill be treated as a bill of review,
an original bill of the same nature, or an original bill on the
ground of fraud, it was a distinct proceeding in which the
moving parties were shifted, and the fact that it put in
issue the jurisdiction in the proceedings it assailed would

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

not change the appeal from this, into an appeal from the
prior decree."
That case was followed and approved in In re Lennon,
150 U. S. 393, wherein Lennon filed a petition in habeas
corpus in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio seeking to be relieved from
punishment for contempt because of violation of an injunction issued in the same court, upon the ground that
the court had no jurisdiction in the original case in which
the order had been issued, and had no jurisdiction over
the person of Lennon because he was not a party to the
original suit, not having been served with process. This
court held that while the proceeding in habeas corpus
undertook to attack the jurisdiction of the court to make
the order, the right to entertain the petition for habeas
corpus was not in issue, but on the contrary, jurisdiction
had been entertained, and conceding that the jurisdiction
to discharge the prisoner would depend upon want of
jurisdiction to commit in the original case, still that would
not present a question reviewable by direct appeal in the
habeas corpus suit. See also Empire State-Idaho Mining
and Developing Co. v. Hanley, 205 U. S.225, 232.
The plaintiff in error correctly contends that the proceeding to set aside the original judgment is in effect an
independent action, and the judgment therein final and
reviewable. The proceeding to set aside the original
judgment is based upon the theory that no jurisdiction
was acquired over The Stevirmac Oil & Gas Company
by the service of the process as amended by the court's
order, and hence the company was never properly subject
to the jurisdiction of the court in the original suit. No
contention is made that the court could not entertain the
proceeding to set aside that judgment, indeed it did entertain jurisdiction and decided against the contention
of the plaintiff in error. In such case we have no doubt
that in view of the nature of the attack made upon the

JONES v. CITY OF PORTLAND.
210.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

original judgment, the judgment in the present proceeding was final, and reviewable in the Court of Appeals.
Rust v. United Waterworks Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 129. But
the attempt now made is to convert the writ of error into
a means of reviewing the question of the jurisdiction of
the court to render the original judgment. For the reasons
stated, and following the construction of the statute already given, the writ of error must be dismissed, and it
is so ordered.
Dismissed.

JONES ET AL v. CITY OF PORTLAND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MAINE.
No. 77.

Argued November 22, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

Establishing and maintaining a public yard for the sale of wood, coal
and other fuel, without financial profit, to the inhabitants of a
municipality, held, a public purpose for which taxes may be levied
without violating the Fourteenth Amendment.
Revised Statutes of Maine, 1903, c. 4, ยง 87, sustained.
113 Maine, 123, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Eben Winthrop Freeman for plaintiffs in error:
The legislature may not make a use public by declaring
it such. Brown v. Gerald, 100 Maine, 251, 373; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Fallbrook IrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 159; Allen v. Jay, 60 Maine, 124, 136.
The business of selling fuel is essentially private and taxes
laid to support it are unconstitutional. Citizens' Savings
Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; State v. Switzler, 143

