OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

BATES v. BODIE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 120.

Argued January 4, 1918.-Decided January 21, 1918.

When a case is here upon the ground that the court below denied full
faith and credit to a decree of a court of another State, a motion
to dismiss the writ of error based on the proposition that the decree
was accorded its due value under the statutes of the State of its
rendition merely begs the question in issue and must be denied.
The principles of estoppel by judgment are reviewed in the opinion
and held to apply (semble with peculiar reason) to decrees for divorce
and alimony.
In a court of Arkansas, a wife, by her cross bill, sought absolute divorce, return of money lent her husband, and alimony "as the facts
and law warrant, and all other proper and necessary relief" alleging
that her husband owned certain real and personal property, including land in Nebraska. The decree granted the divorce as prayed,
adjudged that the wife recover a stated sum "in full of alimony and
all other demands set forth in cross bill," recited that such judgment
was rendered by the husband's consent on condition that there be
no appeal, made provisions for security, which the husband coinplied with, and awarded her certain personal property. After the
husband had paid the judgment the wife sued him in Nebraska to
obtain further alimony out of the Nebraska land, claiming that the
Arkansas court had no jurisdiction to take it into consideration and
did not do so. Held, that the face of the decree, with the cross bill,
showed a plenary adjudication of the liability for alimony with
consent of parties; that this was confirmed by the parties' conduct,
and the weight of the testimony in this case, concerning the former
proceedings; that in virtue of the consent, if not under the Arkansas
statutes (Kirby's Digest, §§ 2681, 2684), the decree was within the
jurisdiction of the Arkansas court, and that the action of the court
below in sustaining the plaintiff's contentions and not accepting the
decree as an estoppel was a denial of full faith and credit.
99 Nebraska, 253, reversed.
PLAINTIFF in error, Bates, filed a complaint in divorce

against defendant in error in the chancery court of Ben-

BATES v. BODIE.
520.

Statement of the Case.

ton County, State of Arkansas, alleging cruelty and
praying for an absolute divorce.
Defendant in error filed an answer denying the charge
against her and a cross complaint accusing him of cruelty.
In the cross complaint she alleged that Bates was
the owner of real and personal property of the fair value
of $75,000, consisting of 320 acres of land in York County,
Nebraska, which she described, and lots in Oklahoma, and
alleged further that she was the owner in her own right
of $3,000, $2,500 of which she loaned to Bates, taking his
notes therefor bearing interest at 8% per annum.
She prayed for an absolute divorce, for the restoration of the money borrowed from her and "that the
court award her such alimony as the facts and law warrant, and all other proper or necessary relief." The
court, after hearing, dismissed Bates' complaint for want
of equity and granted her a divorce, and alimony was
decreed her as follows:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court
that the defendant Lucie Bates have and recover of and
from the defendant [plaintiff] Edward Bates the sum
of $5,111.00 in full of alimony and all other demands
set forth in cross bill which judgment is rendered by
the consent of the plaintiff on condition that no appeal be
taken by the defendant from the judgment and decree
herein rendered."
Certain personal property, consisting of silverware
and household furniture, was adjudged to her and a lien
was declared on a lot in the City of Siloam Springs,
State of Arkansas, and certain notes and mortgages
amounting to the sum of $2,801.06 were required to be
deposited with the clerk of the court as additional security. He, however, was given the power to sell the
same but required to deposit the proceeds of the sale
with the clerk until the sum awarded her be paid, for
which no execution was to issue for six months. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

also decreed "that she be restored to her maiden name
and that the bonds of matrimony entered into"
between her and Bates "be dissolved, set aside and held
for naught."
She subsequently brought this suit against him in a
Nebraska state court repeating the charges of cruelty
against him and the proceedings in Arkansas resulting
in a decree for divorce and alimony as stated above,
and "that said court of chancery did not have any jurisdiction of or over the property of complainant which
was situated outside of the State of Arkansas, and that
in consequence of that fact in determining the amount
of alimony to be granted the defendant in that suit, he
was limited and prohibited from taking into account
the above mentioned property situated in York County,
Nebraska. Said court was limited by the laws of Arkansas from taking into consideration said property
lying in York County, Nebraska, in determining the
amount of alimony that should be granted to defendant
in that suit, who is plaintiff herein."
The laws of the State of Arkansas further provide,
she alleged, that "where the divorce is granted to the
wife each party is restored to all property not disposed
of at the commencement of the action, which either
party obtains from or through the other during the marriage, and in consideration, or by reason thereof; and
the wife so granted a divorce from the husband shall
be entitled to one third of all lands of which her husband
is seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time during
the marriage, for her life, unless the same shall have
been released by her in legal form."
She further alleged that the land in Nebraska was
worth the sum of $48,000, that the amount of alimony
allowed her by the Arkansas decree was largely inadequate for her support and was not such a fair proportion
of the property of Bates owned by him at the date of

BATES v. BODIE.
520.

Statement of the Case.

the decree as she then was and is entitled to in view of
the circumstances. She prayed that a reasonable sum
be adjudged her out of the York County property in
addition to the amount allowed her by the Arkansas decree. A copy of the decree was attached to the complaint.
Bates demurred to the complaint on the ground that
it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, and, she declining to plead further, the cause was
dismissed for want of equity. The judgment was reversed
by the Supreme Court.
On the return of the case to the trial court Bates answered. He set up the proceedings in Arkansas and
pleaded the decree and alleged that it was made upon
full consideration of the evidence and the issues and that
the court took into consideration the value of the land
in York County, Nebraska, in determining the amount
of alimony to be awarded to plaintiff. That the decree
remained "in full force and effect, except that the amount
of alimony awarded therein has been fully paid" by
him. That the Arkansas court in awarding the alimony
"took into consideration all of the property owned by"
him, "which decree, so far as it relates to alimony,
having been fully satisfied, has become a full and complete bar to further proceedings on the part of the plaintiff in this suit, defendant in that, to recover additional
alimony under the laws of the State of Arkansas." And
that, further, under the Constitution of the United
States, the findings and decree are entitled to full faith
and credit in the courts of Nebraska, and constitute
a full and complete bar to plaintiff's right to recover
additional alimony under the laws of the State of Nebraska.
It was adjudged and decreed that plaintiff (defendant in error here) have and recover from the defendant
(plaintiff in error here) the "sum of ten thousand dol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

lars, being the amount found due her as alimony." The
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court, to review which this writ of error was prosecuted.
Mr. A. C. Ricketts and Mr. A. W. Field, with whom
Mr. L. A. Ricketts and Mr. W. L. Kirkpatrick were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel P. Davidson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MCKENNA,

after stating the case as

above, delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss on the ground, as contended, that the decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska was based upon a construction of the statutes
of Arkansas and concluded therefrom that the District
Court of Arkansas "had no jurisdiction to take the Nebraska lands of this plaintiff in error into consideration
in fixing the amount of allowance to this defendant in,
error, and as a matter of fact did not do so." That
this conclusion was reached "by reason of the peculiar statute of Arkansas which governs and controls the
courts of that State in fixing the allowance of alimony
to a wife, in all cases in which the divorce is granted on
her petition" (italics counsel's) and the court "was limited and controlled by that statute." It is hence contended that the full faith and credit which the Constitution of the United States requires to be given to the
judicial proceedings of another State was not denied to
the Arkansas decree but that the Supreme Court of Nebraska, considering the statutes of Arkansas, gave to
the decree the value those statutes gave to it.
But this is the question in controversy. The decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is challenged
for not according to the decree the credit it is entitled

BATES v. BODIE.
520.

Opinion of the Court.

to and it is no answer to the challenge to say that the
Supreme Court committed no error in responding to it
and that, therefore, there is no federal question for review. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14. The motion
to dismiss is denied.
The decision of the Supreme Court affirming the subsequent judgment of the district court on the merits
was by a divided court and the opinion and dissenting
opinion were well-reasoned and elaborate. The ultimate propositions decided were that the courts of Nebraska would entertain a suit for alimony out of real
estate situated in that State after a decree for absolute
divorce in another State, the latter State having no jurisdiction of the land, notwithstanding the decree awarding
alimony, the decree not appearing to have been rendered
by consent or not having taken such land into account;
and that besides the Arkansas court had no jurisdiction
to render a money judgment for alimony.
The propositions were supported and opposed by able
discussion, some of which was occupied in reconciling
a conflict of decision in Nebraska, a later decision made
to give way to an earlier one. We are not called upon
to trace or consider the reasoning of the opinion further
than to determine the correctness of its elements, and
this determination can be made by reference to the divorce proceedings in Arkansas and the decree of the
court rendered therein.
The case is not in broad compass and depends upon
the application of the quite familiar principle that determines the estoppel of judgments, and the principle
would seem to have special application to a judgment
for divorce and alimony. They are usually concomitants in the same suit-some cases say must be-or,
rather, that as alimony is an incident of divorce, it must
be awarded by the same decree that grants the separation. And it is the practice to unite them, as alimony

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

necessarily depends upon a variety of circumstances
more adequately determined in the suit for divorce,
not only the right to it but the measure of it, all circumstances upon which it depends being then naturally brought
under the view and judgment of the court. Whether,
however, the right to it should be litigated in the suit
for divorce, or may be sought subsequently in another,
the principle is applicable that what is once adjudged
cannot be tried again. And this court has established
a test of .the thing adjudged and the extent of its estoppel. It is: If the second action is upon the same claim
or demand as that in which the judgment pleaded was
rendered, the judgment is an absolute bar not only of
what was decided but of what might have been decided.
If the second action was upon a different claim or demand, then the judgment is an estoppel "only as to
those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the
determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered." Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 353;
Virginia-Carolina Chemical Co. v. Kirven, 215 U. S.
252; Troxell v. Delawere, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 227 U. S. 434; Radford v. Myers, 231 U. S. 725; Hart
Steel Co. v. RailroadSupply Co., 244 U. S. 294.
But how find the matters in issue or the points controverted upon the determination of which the judgment was rendered? The obvious answer would seem
to be that for the issues we must go to the pleadings;
for the response to them and their determination, to
the judgment; and each may furnish a definition of the
other. National Foundry & Pipe Works v. Oconto Water
Supply Co., 183 U. S. 216, 234. If there be generality
and uncertainty, to what extent there may be specification and limitation by evidence aliunde there is some
conflict in the cases. But we are not called upon to review or reconcile them. Our rule is that an estoppel
by judgment is "not only as to every matter which was

BATES v. BODIE.
520.

Opinion of the Court.

offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or
demand, but as to any other admissible matter which
might have been offered for that purpose." Cromwell
v. County of Sac, supra, p. 352. Is the rule applicable
to the instant case?
We have set forth the proceedings in divorce in which,
we have seen, there were charges of cruelty, and counter charges. There was display of property, prayers for
divorce and a prayer in addition, on the part of defendant in error, that her husband, Bates, be required to
restore a sum borrowed from her "and that the court
award her such alimony as the facts and law warrant,
and all other proper or necessary relief."
Responding to the issues thus made and the relief
thus prayed, the court adjudged plaintiff in error guilty
of cruelty, granted defendant in error a divorce and
awarded her the sum of "$5,111.00 in full of alimony
and all other demands set forth in cross bill."
There were then presented the issues of divorce and
alimony; the first was made absolute, the second in a
specified sum "in full," and the sum adjudged to her
was made a lien on his property in the State (Arkansas).
We may remark that she was awarded other property.
It would seem, therefore, that there is no uncertainty
upon the face of the record and that it is clear as to the
issues submitted and clear as to the decision upon them.
But it is answered that-(1) The court had no jurisdiction of the Nebraska lands, and (2) that besides it
did not take them into account in its judgment.
(1) Counsel make too much of this point. It may
be that the Arkansas court had no jurisdiction of the
Nebraska lands so as to deal with them specifically,
but it had jurisdiction over plaintiff in error to require
him to perform any order it might make. But even
this power need not be urged. The court had jurisdiction of the controversy between the parties and all that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

pertained to it, jurisdiction to determine the extent of
the property resources of plaintiff in error and what part
of them should be awarded to defendant in error. It
was not limited to any particular sum if it had jurisdiction to render a money judgment at all.
But such jurisidiction does not exist, the Supreme
Court of Nebraska decides and counsel urges. The argument to sustain this is that the Arkansas statute 1
(§ 2684, Kirby's Digest) provides that when a divorce
is granted to the wife the only power the court possesses
is to restore to the parties respectively the property one
may have obtained from the other during the marriage
and adjudge to the wife one-third of her husband's personal property abs*olutely and one-third of all the lands
whereof he was seized of an estate of inheritance at any
time during the marriage for her life unless she shall
have relinquished the same in legal form. In other words,
against a guilty husband the courts of Arkansas were
without power to render a money judgment for alimony,
but were confined to an allotment of his personal property and real estate in the proportions stated. But the
court was confronted with the question of the relation
of that section to § 2681 of the Digest, which provides
that "when a decree shall be entered, the court shall
make such order touching the alimony of the wife and
care of the children, if there be any, as from the circumstances of the parties and the nature of the case shall
' "And where the divorce is granted to the wife, the court shall
make an order that each party be restored to all property not disposed of at the commencement of the action which either party obtained from or through the other during the marriage and in consideration or by reason thereof; and the wife so granted a divorce
against the husband shall be entitled to one-third of the husband's
personal property absolutely, and one-third of all the lands whereof
her husband was seized of an estate of inheritance at any time during the marriage for her life, unless the same shall have been relinquished by her in legal form." Kirby's Digest, § 2684, [1904].

BATES v. BODIE.
520.

Opinion of the Court.

be reasonable." In answer to the question the court
decided that the latter section is applicable only when
a divorce is granted for the fault of the wife.
Plaintiff in error contests the conclusion and strong
argument may be made against it to show that the sections are reconcilable and each applicable to particular
conditions. And such was the view of the dissenting
members of the court. However, we are not called upon
for a definitive decision on account of the view we entertain of proposition 2 and the reason which, we think,
induced the court to render a money judgment.
(2) This proposition is based on the record which, the
Supreme Court said, "shows that the court [Arkansas
court] did not in fact make any allowance on account
of the Nebraska lands," and resort is had to parol testimony for the purpose of limiting the decree. But we
cannot give the testimony such strength. It is conflicting. It consists of the impressions of opposing counsel and of the parties of the opinion of the court orally
delivered in direction for the decree.
The Bodie version is supported by the clerk of the
court, whose recollection was that the court did not take
into consideration "the land outside of Benton County."
But he further testified that there was testimony of the
rental value of the Nebraska lands and that "the chancellor announced that while he did not have jurisdiction over the lands in Nebraska, he did have jurisdiction over the person of Bates, as he was personally present
in court. The court required Bates to deposit security
for the payment of the alimony awarded. . . . As
I recollect it the decree rendered was on the consent of
Bates on condition that Bodie would not appeal."
On the Bates side is the evidence of the chancellor,
whose opinion was the subject of the testimony of the
others. He was specific and direct and the following,
in summary, is his testimony: Depositions were intro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

duced showing the value of and rental income from the
Nebraska lands, which were supposed to be in the name
of Bates' children or in his name as trustee for his children. The decree for alimony was a lump sum of $5,111.00
"in lieu of any interest that she might have or claim
she might have for any sum." (It does not appear from
what this is a quotation-probably from the witness'
opinion.) He, the witness, intimated what he would do
in the way of a property finding and the parties agreed
upon a lump sum as a final settlement, from which no
appeal was to be taken. His view was that the court
had jurisdiction of the parties, and held it had not of
the land in Nebraska, but it did have jurisdiction to
consider its value in determining the amount of alimony.
Knowing, as he testified, the law, he did not think he
stated that there was no law justifying the court to take
into consideration the Nebraska lands. It was not the
first time the proposition had been raised before him.
He remembered that Bodie claimed $2,500 as borrowed
money, but the money had merged in Bates' estate.
He did not understand that it entered in the decree.
It was a lump-sum agreement provided cash could be
got to end the controversy both as to divorce and as to
property rights. Counsel adjusted it on the outside,
for he was quite sure that it was not the amount the
court indicated it would allow. The court understood
that counsel on both sides agreed to the amount; that
the judgment was a complete and amicable settlement
between the parties of all property rights involved.
We must ascribe to the representation of the decree
the same judicial impartiality that induced its rendition and the representation was circumstantial, without material qualification, doubt or hesitation. It accords besides with the issues in the case and the decree.
As we have seen, the amount it awarded was "in full
of alimony and all other demands set forth in cross bill."

SOUTHERN PAC. CO. v. DARNELL-TAENZER CO. 531
520.

Syllabus.

It also recited that it was "rendered by the consent of
the plaintiff on condition that no appeal be taken by the
defendant from the judgment and decree." The amount
was secured, as the chancellor declared he would secure it; it was paid as it was required to be paid.
The evidence, therefore, confirms the face of the decree and that it was rendered by consent of the parties.
It is admitted that consent would give jurisdiction to
the court to render a money judgment for alimony.
We think, therefore, that due faith and credit required
by the Constitution of the United States was not given
to the decree.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL. v.
DARNELL-TAENZER LUMBER COMPANY ET
AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 132. Argued January 8, 9, 1918.-Decided January 21, 1918.
The fact that one who paid unreasonable freight charges has shifted
the burden by collecting from purchasers of the goods, does not
prevent him from recovering the overpayments from the carrier,
under an order of reparation made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. He is the proximate loser; his cause of action accrues
immediately, without waiting for later events; the purchaser, lacking
privity, cannot recover the illegal profits from the carrier; and,
practically, to follow each transaction to its ultimate result would
be endless and futile. Cases like Pennysylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184, involving damages for
discrimination, are distinguished.

