OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

CREW LEVICK COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 499. Argued October 17, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
This court determines the constitutionality of a state tax upon its own
judgment of the actual operation and effect of the tax, irrespective
of its form and of how it is characterized by the state courts.
A state tax on the business of selling goods in foreign commerce, measured by a percentage of the entire business transacted, is both a
regulation of foreign commerce and an impost or duty on exports,
and is therefore void. Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145
U. S. 1, distinguished.
256 Pa. St. 508, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. David Wallerstein, with whom Mr. Charles A.
Frueauff was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.,
Mr. Joseph L. Kun, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Francis Shunk
Brown, Attorney General of the State of Pennsylvania,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The State of Pennsylvania, by an Act of May 2, 1899,
P. L., p. 184,1 imposes an annual mercantile license tax
' "Section 1. Be it enacted, &c., That from and after the passage of
this act, each retail vender of or retail dealer in goods, wares and merchandise shall pay an annual mercantile license tax of two dollars, and
all persons so engaged shall pay one mill additional on each dollar of

CREW LEVICK CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
292.

Opinion of the Court.

of three dollars upon each wholesale vender of or dealer
in goods, wares, and merchandise, and "one-half mill
additional on each dollar of the whole volume, gross, of
business transacted annually," and like taxes at another
rate upon retail venders, and at still another upon venders
at an exchange or board of trade. In the year 1913 plaintiff in error sold and delivered at wholesale, from a warehouse located in that State, merchandise to the value of
about $47,000 to purchasers within the State, and merchandise to the value of about $430,000 to customers in
foreign countries: the latter sales usually having been
negotiated by agents abroad who took orders and transmitted them to plaintiff in error at its office in the State
of Pennsylvania, subject to its approval, while in some
cases orders were sent direct by the customers in foreign
countries to plaintiff in error; and the goods thus ordered,
upon the acceptance of the orders, having been shipped
direct by plaintiff in error from its warehouse in Pennsylvania to its customers in the foreign countries. Under
the Act of 1899 a mercantile license tax was imposed upon
plaintiff in error, based upon the amount of its gross
annual receipts. Plaintiff in error protested against the
assessment of so much of the tax as was based upon the
the whole volume, gross, of business transacted annually. Each wholesale vender of or wholesale dealer in goods, wares and merchandise
shall pay an annual mercantile license tax of three dollars, and all persons so engaged shall pay one-half mill additional on each dollar of the
whole volume, gross, of business transacted annually. Each dealer in
or vender of goods, wares or merchandise at any exchange or board of
trade shall pay a mercantile license tax of twenty-five cents on each
thousand dollars worth, gross, of goods so sold.
"Section 2. And it is provided that all persons who shall sell to
dealers in or venders of goods, wares and merchandise, and to no other
person or persons, shall be taken under the provisions of this act [to] be
wholesalers; and all other venders of or dealers in goods, wares and merchandise shall be retailers, and shall pay an annual license tax as provided in this act for retailers."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S'

gross receipts from merchandise shipped to foreign countries. The Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia and,
upon appeal, the Supreme Court of the State (256 Pa. St.
508) sustained the tax, overruling the contention that it
amounted to a regulation of foreign commerce and also
was an impost or duty on exports levied without the consent of Congress, contrary to §§ 8 and 10 of Art. I of the
Constitution of the United States.1
Whether there was error in the disposition of the federal
question is the only subject with which we have to deal.
As in other cases of this character, we accept the decision of the state court of last resort, respecting the proper
construction of the statute, but are in duty bound to determine the questions raised under the Federal Constitution upon our own judgment of the actual operation and
effect of the tax, irrespective of the form it bears or how
it is characterized by the state courts. Galveston, Harrisburg, & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227;
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350,
362; Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227,
231.
In this case, however, the characterization of the tax
by the state court of last resort is a fair index of its actual
operation and effect upon commerce. Soon after the
passage of the act, in Knisely v. Cotterel, 196 Pa. St. 614,
1Literally, the objection was that a tax based upon the gross receipts
for merchandise shipped to foreign countries would be a "tax levied
by the United States of America upon commerce with foreign nations,
in violation of Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of the United
States, and would also be an impost or duty on exports levied by the
State of Pennsylvania without the authority of an Act of Congress in
violation of Article I, Section 10, of the Constitution of the United
States." The description of the tax as "levied by the United States of
America" evidently was a slip, and so understood by both courts, as
appears from the opinion of the Court of Common Pleas (unreported),
of which only the conclusion is quoted in the opinion of the Supreme
Court.

CREW LEVICK CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
292.

Opinion of the Court.

that court was called upon to construe it and to answer
objections raised under the constitution of the State and
the Fourth, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, and in the course of an
elaborate opinion declared (p. 630): "An examination of
the details of the provisions of the present act makes it
clear that the tax, as held by the learned judge below, is
upon the business of vending merchandise, and that the
classification is based on the manner of sale, and within
each class the tax is graduated according to the gross
annual volume of business transacted. This is apparent
from the fact that the amount of the tax over the small
fixed license fee is determined in every case by the volume
of business, measured in dollars, and the rate at which it is
to be levied is according to the manner of sale."
The bare question, then, is whether a state tax imposed
upon the business of selling goods in foreign commerce,
in so far as it is measured by the gross receipts from merchandise shipped to foreign countries, is in effect a regulation of foreign commerce or an impost upon exports,
within the meaning of the pertinent clauses of the Federal
Constitution. Although dual in form, the question may
be treated as a single one, since it is obvious that, for the
purposes of this case, an impost upon exports and a regulation of foreign commerce may be regarded as interchangeable terms. And there is no suggestion that the tax is
limited to the necessities of inspection, or that the consent
of Congress has been given.
We are constrained to hold that the answer must be in
the affirmative. No question is made as to the validity
of the small fixed tax of $3 imposed upon wholesale venders
doing business within the State in both internal and foreign commerce; but the additional imposition of a percentage upon each dollar of the gross transactions in foreign commerce seems to us to be, by its necessary effect,
a tax upon such commerce, and therefore a regulation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

it; and, for the same reason, to be in effect an impost or
duty upon exports. This view is so clearly supported by
numerous previous decisions of this court that it is necessary to do little more than refer to a few of the most
pertinent. Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232,
276-277; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120
U. S.489; Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230, 244; Philadelphia & Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326, 336; Leloup v. Portof Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 648;
McCall v. California,136 U. S. 104, 109; Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227.
Most of these cases related to interstate commerce, but
there is no difference between this and foreign commerce,
so far as the present question is concerned.
The principal reliance of the Commonwealth is upon
Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1. Undoubtedly that case is near the border line; but we think
its authority would have to be stretched in order to sustain such a tax as is here in question. Consistently with
due regard for the constitutional provisions, we are unable thus to extend it. In that case the complaining parties were established in business within the taxing district
as general merchandise brokers, and had taken out general
and unrestricted licenses to do business of all kinds, both
internal and interstate. As it happened, one of them
(Ficklen), during the year in question, did an interstate
business exclusively, and the other (Cooper & Co.) did a
business nine-tenths of which was interstate. And the
court, by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, said (p. 21): "Where
a resident citizen engages in general business subject to a
particular tax, the fact that the business done chances to
consist, for the time being, wholly or partially in negotiating sales between resident and non-resident merchants,:
of goods situated in another State, does not necessarily in-,
volve the taxation of interstate commerce, forbidden by
the Constitution;" and again (p. 24): "What position

CREW LEVICK CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
292.

Opinion of the Court.

they [the plaintiffs in error] would have occupied if they
had not undertaken to do a general commission business,
and had taken out no licenses therefor, but had simply
transacted business for non-resident principals, is an enentirely different question, which does not arise upon this
record." Besides, the tax imposed in the Ficklen Case was
not directly upon the business itself or upon the volume
thereof, but upon the amount of commissions earned by
the brokers, which, although probably corresponding
with the volume of the transactions, was not necessarily
proportionate thereto. For these and other reasons the
case has been deemed exceptional.
In Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688,
695, the court, again speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller,
said: "It is settled that where, by way of duties laid on the
transportation of the subjects of interstate commerce, or
on the receipts derived therefrom, or on the occupation or
business of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a State on
interstate commerce, such taxation amounts to a regulation of such commerce and cannot be sustained."
The tax now under consideration, so far as it is challenged, fully responds to these tests. It bears no semblance
of a property tax, or a franchise tax in the proper sense;
nor is it an occupation tax except as it is imposed upon the
very carrying on of the business of exporting merchandise.
It operates to lay a direct burden upon every transaction
in commerce by withholding, for the use of the State, a
part of every dollar received in such transactions. That
it applies to internal as well as to foreign commerce cannot save it; for, as was said in Case of the State Freight Tax,
15 Wall. 232, 277, "The State may tax its internal commerce, but if an act to tax interstate or foreign commerce
is unconstitutional, it is not cured by including in its provisions subjects within the domain of the State." That
portion of the tax which is measured by the receipts from
foreign commerce necessarily varies in proportion to the

OCT013ER TERM, 1017.
Counsel for Parties.

245 U. S.

volume of that commerce, and hence is a direct burden
upon it.
So obvious is the distinction between this tax and those
that were sustained in Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142
U. S. 217; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335,
347; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 87;
Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 232,
235; and some other cases of the same class, that no time
need be spent upon it.
The judgment under review must be
Reversed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 18. Submitted November 7, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
The power of a State under the Webb-Kenyon Law to forbid shipment
into its territory of intoxicating liquor from other States includes
the lesser power to prescribe by law the conditions under which such
shipments may be allowed.
The Webb-Kenyon Law having subjected interstate shipments of
intoxicating liquor to state legislation, a state law requiring carriers
to keep records of such shipments, open for the inspection of any
officer or citizen, is valid, notwithstanding the prohibition of § 15
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18, 1910, against
the divulging of information by interstate carriers.
Section 5, North Carolina Public Laws, 1913, e. 44, p. 76, sustained.
169 N. Car. 295, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error.

