OCT013ER TERM, 1017.
Counsel for Parties.

245 U. S.

volume of that commerce, and hence is a direct burden
upon it.
So obvious is the distinction between this tax and those
that were sustained in Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142
U. S. 217; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335,
347; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 87;
Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 232,
235; and some other cases of the same class, that no time
need be spent upon it.
The judgment under review must be
Reversed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 18. Submitted November 7, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
The power of a State under the Webb-Kenyon Law to forbid shipment
into its territory of intoxicating liquor from other States includes
the lesser power to prescribe by law the conditions under which such
shipments may be allowed.
The Webb-Kenyon Law having subjected interstate shipments of
intoxicating liquor to state legislation, a state law requiring carriers
to keep records of such shipments, open for the inspection of any
officer or citizen, is valid, notwithstanding the prohibition of § 15
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18, 1910, against
the divulging of information by interstate carriers.
Section 5, North Carolina Public Laws, 1913, e. 44, p. 76, sustained.
169 N. Car. 295, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. NORTH CAROLINA. 299
298.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James S. Manning, Attorney General of the State of
North Carolina, and Mr. Riobert H. Sykes, Assistant

Attorney General of the State of North Carolina, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Pertinent provisions of "An Act to secure the enforcement of the laws against the sale and manufacture of intoxicating liquors" established by the General Assembly

of North Carolina March 3, 1913, (P. L., 1913, c. 44,
p. 76), are copied in the margin. 1 Section 5 requires rail-

,Public

Laws of North Carolina, 1913, c. 44, p. 76:
"Sec. 1. That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation,
association or company, by whatever name called, other than druggists
and medical depositories duly licensed thereto, to engage in the business
of selling, exchanging, bartering, giving away for the purpose of direct
or indirect gain, or otherwise handling spirituous, vinous or malt liquors
in the State of North Carolina. Any person, firm or corporation or
association violating the provisions of this act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
"Sec. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or
corporation by whatever name called, other than druggists and medical
depositories duly licensed thereto, to have or keep in his, their or its
possession, for the purpose of sale, any spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors; and proof of any one of the following facts shall constitute
primafacie evidence of the violation of this section:
"First: The possession of a license from the government of the
United States to sell or manufacture intoxicating liquors; or
"Second: The possession of more than one gallon of spirituous
liquors at any one time, whether in one or more places; or
"Third: The possession of more than three gallons of vinous liquors
at any one time, whether in one or more places; or
"Fourth: The possession of more than five gallons of malt liquors at
any one time, whether in one or more places; or
"Fifth: The delivery to such person, firm, association or corporation
of more than five gallons of spirituous or vinous liquors, or more than
twenty gallons of malt liquors within any four successive weeks,
whether in one or more places; or

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

road companies to keep a separate book in which shall be
entered the name of every person to whom intoxicating
liquor is shipped, together with amount, kind, date of
receipt, etc., to be followed by the consignee's signature
acknowledging delivery. And it further provides that the
"Sixth: The possession of intoxicating liquors as samples to obtain
orders thereon: ....
"See. 3. Upon the filing of complaint, under oath, by a reputable
citizen, or information furnished under oath by an officer charged with
the execution of the law, before a justice of the peace, recorder, mayor,
or other officer authorized by law to issue warrants, charging that any
person, firm, corporation, association or company, by whatever name
called, has in his, their or its possession, at a place or places specified,
more than one gallon of spirituous or vinous liquors or more than five
gallons of malt liquors for the purpose of sale, a warrant shall be issued
commanding the officer to whom it is directed to search the place or
places described in such complaint or information,
"Sec. 5. All express companies, railroad companies, or other transportation companies doing business in this State are required hereby to
keep a separate book in which shall be entered immediately upon receipt thereof the name of the person to whom the liquor is shipped, the
amount and kind received, and the date when received, the date when
delivered, by whom delivered, and to whom delivered, after which
record shall be a blank space, in which the consignee shall be required
to sign his name, or if he cannot write, shall make his mark in the presence of a witness, before such liquor is delivered to such consignee, and
which said book shall be open for inspection to any officer or citizen of
the State, county, or municipality any time during business hours of the
company, and said book shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
facts therein and will be admissible in any of the courts of this State.
Any express company, railroad company, or other transportation company or any employee or agent of any express company, railroad company, or other transportation company violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor: Provided,upon the filing of a
certificate signed by a reputable physician or two (2) reputable citizens
that the consignee is unable, by reason of sickness or infirmities of age,
to appear in person, then the said company is authorized to deliver any
package to the agent of said consignee, and the agent shall sign the
name of the consignee and his own name, and the certificate shall be
filed of record."

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. NORTH CAROLINA. 301
298.

Opinion of the Court.

book shall be open for inspection by any officer or citizen,
and makes failure so to do a misdemeanor.
Plaintiff in error was indicted at the May Term, 1914,
Superior Court, Wake County, upon a charge of violating
§ 5 by refusing, in the preceding January, to permit a
citizen to inspect its record showing shipments of spirituous and malt liquors transported from Virginia into
that county, said record containing the "names of the
consignors, consignees, date of the receipt and delivery of
said shipments, and to whom delivered."
The jury returned a special verdict in which they found:
"That R. L. Davis, on a date prior to the starting of
this prosecution, he being at that time a citizen of the
county of Wake, State of North Carolina, went to the
office of the defendant company during its business hours,
and while said office was open, and demanded of the agent
that he be allowed to inspect the book kept by the defendant showing shipments of liquor from points outside
of the State of North Carolina to the city of Raleigh";
"the agent of the defendant stated that he was instructed
to and did refuse to allow
.
the inspection";
"Davis had no legal process and did not make any demand under any legal process, and at the time of the
alleged demand he was neither a State nor Federal officer
of any kind of any State or Territory"; "he was seeking
information from said book for the purpose of .prosecuting
persons suspected of violating the law of North Carolina";
and "was seeking general information as to shipments of
whiskey into the city of .Raleigh from points in another
State, and that he had in his mind specially an effort to
see what evidence could be procured against one or more
specific parties in the city of Raleigh, meaning by the
words 'general information' that he was seeking to ascertain who were the consignees of liquor and the quantities
they were receiving, for the purpose of prosecuting such
parties as may be charged or suspected with the violation

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

of the prohibition laws of the State"; and that he "had
no authority except that which existed, if any, by virtue
of the fact that he was at that time a citizen of the State."
Upon this special verdict the State Supreme Court adjudged plaintiff in error guilty as charged, 169 N. Car. 295;
and it now maintains the judgment is erroneous, for reasons following:
I. Section 5, c. 44, supra, is void because an attempt by
the State to regulate interstate commerce, in that it imposes as a condition precedent to delivery that the carrier
shall keep a separate book containing name of person to
whom liquor is shipped, amount and kind received, date
of receipt and delivery, by whom and to whom delivered;
and the consignee is required to receipt therefor before
delivery.
II. In order to comply with § 5 by permitting records of
interstate shipments of liquor to be inspected by a mere
citizen, the carrier would necessarily violate the provisions
of § 15, Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18,
1910 (36 Stat. 539, 551, 553), which prohibit such action
except under circumstances specified. (These are copied
below.) 1
1"An Act to Regulate Commerce," as amended June 18, 1910 (36
Stat. 539, 551, 553).
"Section 15.
"It shall be.unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act, or any officer, agent, or employee of such common
carrier, or for any other person or corporation lawfully authorized by
such common carrier to receive information therefrom, knowingly to
disclose to or permit to be acquired by any person or corporation other
than the shipper or consignee, without the consent of such shipper or
consignee, any information concerning the nature, kind, quantity,
destination, consignee, or routing of any property tendered or delivered
to such common carrier for interstate transportation, which information may be used to the detriment or prejudice of such shipper or consignee, or which may improperly disclose his business transactions to a
competitor; and it shall also be unlawful for any person or corporation
to solicit or knowingly receive any such information which may be so

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. NORTH CAROLINA. 303
298.

Opinion of the Court.

III. The Webb-Kenyon Law (Act of Congress, March 1,
1913, entitled "An Act divesting intoxicating liquors of
their interstate character in certain cases," 37 Stat. 699)
cannot affect the application of these principles to shipments destined to points in Wake County, because it
relates to liquors intended to be received, possessed, sold
or used in violation of state law; and to receive or possess
liquor in any quantity in that county is not unlawful.
For some years it has been the established policy of
North Carolina, "approved by popular vote and expressed
and enforced by the general and many local statutes, that,
except in very restricted instances, the manufacturing
and sale of intoxicating liquors shall not be allowed."
Smith v. Express Company (1914), 166 N. Car. 155, 157.
Since our decision in Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 320, 324, it has not been open
to serious question that the Webb-Kenyon Law is a valid
enactment; that "its purpose was to prevent the immunity
characteristic of interstate commerce from being used to
permit the receipt of liquor through such commerce in
States contrary to their laws, and thus in effect afford a
means by subterfuge and indirection to set such laws at
naught"; and that under it a State may inhibit shipused; Provided, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent
the giving of such information in response to any legal process issued
under the authority of any state or federal court, or to any officer or
agent of the Government of the United States, or of any State or Territory, in the exercise of his powers, or to any officer or other duly authorized person seeking such information for the prosecution of persons
charged with or suspected of crime; or information given by a common
carried to another carrier or its duly authorized agent, for the purpose
of adjusting mutual traffic accounts in the ordinary course of business
of such carriers.
"Any person, corporation, or association violating any of the provisions of the next preceding paragraph of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each offense, on conviction, shall pay
to the United States a penalty of not more than one thousand dollars."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

ments therein of intoxicating liquors from another by a
common carrier although intended for the consignee's
personal use where such use is not actually forbidden.
Plainly, therefore, after that enactment, nothing in the
laws or Constitution of the United States restricted North
Carolina's power to make shipment of intoxicants into
Wake County a penal offence irrespective of any personal
right in a consignee there to have and consume liquor of
that character.
The challenged act instead of interposing an absolute
bar against all such shipments, as it was within the power
of the State to do, in effect permitted them upon conditions intended to secure publicity, to the end that public
policy might not be set at naught by subterfuge and indirection. The greater power includes the less.
The provisions of § 15, Act to Regulate Commerce, here
relied on were intended to apply to matters within the
exclusive control of the Federal Government; and when
by a subsequent act Congress rendered interstate shipments of intoxicating liquors subject to state legislation,
those provisions necessarily ceased to be paramount in
respect of them.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents.

CRANE v. CAMPBELL, SHERIFF OF LATAH
COUNTY, IDAHO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 53.

Argued November 15, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A State may prohibit and punish the possession of intoxicating liquor
for personal use. Idaho Laws, 1915, c. 11, p. 41, sustained.
27 Idaho, 671, affirmed.

