UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HUXOLL.
531.

Syllabus.

and there is no question as to the amount of the proximate loss. See Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 412, 429. Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238
U. S. 473.
An objection is taken to the jurisdiction of this court
upon writ of error. An application is made for a certiorari in case the objection is held good, and as we should
grant the latter writ in that event the question has no
importance here except as a precedent. We are inclined
to take the course followed sub silentio in Mills v. Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co., and to treat cases brought under ยง 16
of the Act to Regulate Commerce which authorizes the
joinder of all plaintiffs and all defendants as standing on
a peculiar ground.
Judgment affirmed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
.HUXOLL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF HUXOLL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 104. Argued December 21, 1917.-Decided January 21, 1918.
The question whether any substantial evidence was introduced to
justify submission of a case to the jury on the issue of proximate
causal negligence is one of law, reviewable by this court, in an action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, coming from a state
court.
A railroad employee was run down and killed in a switching yard by a
switching engine, backing on a track, between the rails of which he
was walking in the opposite direction. He was passing through an
extensive cloud of steam and smoke coming from a round-house and
nearby engines, which had settled upon the tracks on a very cold
and windy day. The cloud was dense but shifting, so that at times
one might see through it considerable distances, and at others but

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

a very short distance. Held, that deceased was guilty of contributory negligence.
Under the Federal Employers' Liability and Safety Appliance Acts,
contributory negligence avails the carrier neither as a defense nor
in diminishing damages, if its failure to observe the latter act by
having the power-brake of its locomotive in working order contributed in whole or in part to cause the death of the employee.
Upon the conflict of testimony introduced, considered in the aspect
least favorable to the plaintiff in error, held, that it was not error to
submit the case to the jury on the question whether the defective
condition of the power-brake contributed, in whole or in part, to
cause the fatal result.
99 Nebraska, 170, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. H. Loomis and Mr. C. A. Magaw for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. Walter V. Hoagland, Mr. Wilmer B. Comstock, Mr. John F. Stout and

Mr. Arthur R. Wells, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Fred J. Huxoll, a locomotive engineer in the employ of
the plaintiff in error, was run down by a switching engine,
about 11 o'clock in the morning, in a switching yard of
the company at a division point in Nebraska, and subsequently died of the injuries which he received.
The weather was very cold, with a high wind blowing
and a cloud of steam and smoke, from engines standing
nearby the scene of the accident and from a round-house
farther away, had settled down upon the tracks, and it
was while passing through this that the deceased was
struck by the engine. This cloud of steam and smoke is
described by one witness as extending 300 or 400 feet along

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HUXOLL.
535.

Opinion of the Court.

the tracks, and by another for about 100 to 200 feet. It
varied in density and shifted with the wind, so that at
times one could see considerable distances through it while
at other times it was so dense that it was possible to see
only a very short distance. Huxoll was walking eastward
through this cloud of smoke and steam and was between
the rails of one of the tracks when an engine backing toward the west struck him in such a manner that the tender passed over him, and when the engine was stopped
he was opposite -the main driving wheel, with his right
wrist under the wheel on the rail.
Judgment was rendered by the trial court on a verdict
in favor of the plaintiff, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska and, the case being one to which
the Federal Employers' Liability Act is applicable, it is
now here on writ of error.
There are many claims of negligence in the petition,
but the court submitted only three of them to the jury,
and of these we need consider but one instruction, viz:
Was the power brake on the engine in working order
at the time of the accident, and if it was not, did this defect contribute "in whole or in part" to cause the death
of Huxoll?
The oral argument of counsel for the plaintiff in error
was practically confined to the proposition that the trial
court committed reversible error in submitting these questions to the jury, for the reason that, even if it be assumed
(as it must be for there is sharp conflict on the point) that
the power brake was not in working order, there was no
substantial evidence in the case that this failure contributed "in whole or in part" to cause the death of Huxoll.
The engineer did not see the deceased at the moment
he was struck, and it is argued that there is no substantial evidence to show how much farther the engine ran
after he was notified of the accident than it would have
run if the power brake had been properly applied, or that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the running of the engine such distance, whatever it may
have been, added anything to the injuries of the deceased
and so contributed to cause his death.
It is necessary for us to examine the evidence in the
record to determine the validity of this claim for the reason that it presents a federal question, not of fact but of
law, (Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261;
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668, 673),
and it relates to the only negligence claimed in the case
which, if proved, would relieve the defendant in error, as
the charge of the court in the instruction we are considering relieved her, from the necessity of having her recovery diminished by the jury in proportion to the amount
of negligence attributable to her decedent, who was obviously guilty of contributory negligence in walking on
the track under the conditions shown.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908,
35 Stat. 65, is confessedly applicable to the case and the
rule of liability prescribed by this and the Safety Appliance
Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, is, as the trial court
charged, that if the failure to have the power brake in
working order contributed "in whole or in part" to cause
the death of deceased, the plaintiff in error would be liable in damages and neither contributory negligence nor
assumption of risk could avail the company as a defense
or. in diminishing the damages.
There is conflict in the evidence; as 'to the speed at
which the engine was moving when it entered the cloud
of steam and smoke-the estimates vary from three miles
to ten miles an hour; as to the distance within which the
engine with the power brake properly working could have
been stopped under the conditions which existed at the
time of the accident,-the estimates vary from "almost
instantly "--eight to ten feet,-to forty feet; as to when
the engineer received notice that the deceased had been
struck-the statements vary, from almost the instant the

UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. HUXOLL.
535.

Opinion of the Court.

man was struck, to considerably later; as to the distance
which the engine ran after striking the deceased-the estimates vary from thirty to about one hundred and thirty-five feet; as to the distance which the engine ran after
the engineer had notice of the accident-the engineer testified at one time that he thought it did not exceed forty
feet, while other testimony tended to show that it must
have been considerably more than a hundred feet; and as
to the lookout which the engineer was keeping when the
accident occurred.
The first wheel to actually strike the deceased was the
"main" driving wheel-the middle one of three-and
this was standing on his right wrist when the engine was
stopped, so that the entire tender and quite one-half of
the engine proper, including the fire-box, passed over his
body which was found so wedged beneath the engine that
it was necessary to remove the brakerods to release him.
The deceased was not instantly killed but was conscious and talked some during the forty-five minutes which
elapsed before he was released from under the engine and
also later in the day while on the way to the hospital at
Cheyenne, and he did not die until two o'clock the next
morning. The injuries which caused his death are not described beyond the bare statement that the driving wheel
rested on the wrist of his right arm, that that arm was
found afterwards to be torn from the shoulder and that
his scalp was badly cut.
Considering this conflicting testimony in the aspect of
it least favorable to the company, as we must on this review, it results that there is evidence tending to show, that,
while the engineer did not see the man struck, he was notified almost instantly by a call to stop from the one witness who says he saw him struck, and that if the powerbrake had been working the engineer could have stopped
his engine, running three or four miles an hour, "almost
instantly, "-"in eight to ten feet," but that in fact it

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

ran for approximately one hundred and thirty-five feet
after striking the deceased, with his body under the tender or engine almost the entire time.
Demonstration is not required in such a case as we have
here but responsibility for the accident must be determined upon the reasonable conclusions to be drawn from
the evidence, and it is impossible for us to conclude that
the conflict which we have thus described does not present evidence sufficient to justify the submitting of the
case -to the jury for its determination as to whether the
deceased, who survived the accident for fifteen hours, received injuries which contributed in part, at least, to the
fatal result, during the time that the engine was being
negligently run for a distance which there is evidence tending to show was at least one hundred feet, with his body
all the time being dragged and crushed between the frozen ballast of the track, the low-hanging attachments of
the tender and the rods of the driving wheel brakes with
which his body was found so entangled that it required
forty-five minutes to release him from his desperate situation. It is significant that the men who were there,
with all of the conditions before their eyes, thought that
further movement, even the slightest, of the engine, would
result in further injury to the deceased and that, for this
reason, they would not permit it to be moved at all, but
thought it necessary to remove the brakerods in order
to release him, even though this required that he be exposed to the cold in much below zero weather for fortyfive minutes.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska must
be
Affirmed.

