OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

of time. It is impossible for us to say that if the flood had
destroyed the work that the claimants had added and for
which they had received nearly $300,000, they would
have been excused under the contract from replacing
what they had done.
It follows, without the need of referring to clauses in the
contract excluding claims for extra work, that if the
claimants put up temporary defences against the water,
even though not bound to do so by the contract, they
were doing what it was for their own interest and safety
to do, and that in the absence of an actual contract to
pay for it by the other party there is no ground for shifting
the cost on to the United States. The arguments that
are based by the claimants upon public documents outside of the record do not seem to us to raise a doubt that
the construction adopted and conclusion reached by the
Court of Claims were correct.
Judgment affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING COAL & IRON COMPANY v. GILBERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 454.

Argued November 6, 1917.-Decided November 26, 1917.

A Pennsylvania corporation was sued in New York, where it transacted
but a part of its business, upon a cause of action for personal injuries
arising in Pennsylvania, and the summons was served upon a New
York agent which it had designated to receive service of process,
conformably to the New York laws. It moved to set aside the
service as void in that consent to be sued in New York could be implied only in respect of causes arising out of its business there, and
that the attempt to compel it to respond to the action was an invasion of its rights under the Constitution, particularly § 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Held that, as the motion did not draw

PHILA. & READ. C. & I. CO. v. GILBERT.
162.

163

Opinion of the Court.

in question the validity of the state law but only the validity of
the service and the power of the court, consistently with § 1 of the
Amendment, to proceed upon such service, no basis was laid for reviewing in this court by writ of error a subsequent judgment on the
merits but only for application for certiorari. Jud. Code, § 237,
as amended by Act of Sept. 6, 1916.
Writ of error to review 176 App. Div. 889, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. PierreM. Brown, for plaintiff in error, besides suggesting that, under § 4 of the Act of September 6, 1916,
the writ of error if improper might be taken as an application for certiorari, contended that error was proper because the validity of the New York statute upon which
the service and jurisdiction in the New York courts depended was challenged. This statute-§ 16, General
Corporation Laws of New York, c. 28, Laws 1909; c. 23,
Consolidated Laws-reasonably construed, does not
intend that, by merely designating an agent upon whom
process can be served, a foreign corporation shall be
deemed to have submitted itself to be sued in New York
upon causes of action having no relation whatever to its
business in that State. In construing it otherwise (Bagdon v. Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co., 217 N. Y.
432; see also Tauza v. Susquehanna Coal Co., 220 N. Y.
259), the New York courts have made it an unlawful
burden on interstate commerce. Sioux Remedy Co. v.
Cope, 235 U. S. 197; Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
115; and other cases.
Mr. William M. Seabury and Mr. Samuel Seabury for
defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action in a state court in New York by a
resident of that State against a Pennsylvania corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

to recover for a personal injury sustained by the former
while employed in the latter's coal mine in Pennsylvania.
In addition to mining coal in Pennsylvania, the defendant
was doing business in New York and, conformably to the
laws of the latter State, had designated an agent therein
upon whom process against it might be served. The
summons was served upon this agent. After an unsuccessful effort to have the service set aside as invalid, the defendant answered and the further proceedings resulted
in a judgment for the plaintiff, which was affirmed, without opinion, by the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court. An appeal to the Court of Appeals was denied,
and the defendant sued out this writ of error. A motion
to dismiss the writ is made upon the ground that the judgment, if open to review here, cannot be reviewed upon a
writ of error, but only upon a writ of certiorari.
Under § 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, a final judgment or decree
of a state court of last resort in a suit "where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision
is against their validity; or where is drawn in question
the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under
any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and
the decision is in favor of their validity," may be reviewed
in this court upon writ of error; but, if the suit be one
"where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
States, and the decision is in favor of their validity; or
where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or
an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States, and the decision is against their
validity; or where any title, right, privilege, or immunity
is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute

PHILA. & READ. C. & I. CO. v. GILBERT.
162.

165

Opinion of the Court.

of, or commission held or authority exercised under the
United States, and the decision is either in favor of or
against the title, right, privilege, or immunity especially
set up or claimed, by either party, under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority," the judgment or decree can be reviewed in this court only upon a
writ of certiorari. The difference between the two modes
of securing a review, as contemplated by the statute,
lies in the fact that a writ of error is granted as of right,
while a writ of certiorari is granted or refused in the exercise of a sound discretion.
By a timely motion the defendant sought to have the
service of the summons set aside upon the ground"that said service is void, in that the defendant's consent
to be sued in the State of New York by service upon its
aforesaid designated agent, can only be implied with
respect to causes of action arising in connection with
business the defendant transacts in the State of New York;
the plaintiff's cause of action herein did not arise in connection with the business defendant transacts in the State
of New York but is brought to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have been sustained in the State
of Pennsylvania. An attempt to compel the defendant
to respond to this suit in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, sitting in Westchester County, is an invasion of the defendant's rights under the Constitution of
the United States, particularly Section 1 of the 14th
Amendment of the said Constitution."
The motion was overruled and the defendant, having
first excepted to the ruling, answered to the merits.
All that was drawn in question by the motion was the
validity of the service and the power of the court, consistently with the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment-probably meaning the due process of law clause,
to proceed upon that service to a hearing and determination of the case. It did not question the validity of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States. Neither did it challenge the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on
the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States. Challenging the
power of the court to proceed to a decision of the merits
did not draw in question an authority exercised under the
State, for, as this court has said, the power to hear and
determine cases is not the kind of authority to which the
statute refers. Bethell v. Demaret, 10 Wall. 537, 540;
French v. Taylor, 199 U. S. 274, 277.
It follows that the judgment cannot be reviewed upon
writ of error. If a review was desired it should have been
sought under that clause of the certiorari provision which
reads, "or where any title, right, privilege, or immunity
is claimed under the Constitution," etc.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. ARANT v. LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 44.

Argued November 13, 14, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

Judgments or decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia are not made final by Judicial Code, § 250, in cases involving the
interpretation and effect of acts of Congress which are general in
character, or the general duties or powers of officers under the law
of the United States, as distinguished from merely local authority.
By Judicial Code, § 251, the power of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia to certify questions to this court is confined to
cases where the judgments or decrees of that court are made final by
§ 250.

