OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

concerned an act of Congress of local application. Even,
however, upon the assumption that the cases are susceptible of a different view, as no question was raised in
either concerning the power to certify and the limitation
to which it was subjected by the statute, the mere fact
that the cases were entertained affords no ground for
holding them as authoritative on the question before us
and thereby causing the statute to embrace a power
which it excluded by both its letter and spirit. United
States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, 172; Louisville Trust Co. v.
Knott, 191 U. S. 225, 236.
As therefore there was no authority in the court below
to certify and propound the questions, the certificate
must be and it is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

PETERSEN ET AL., LEGATEES OF ANDERSON, v.
STATE OF IOWA EX REL. THE STATE TREASURER, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 74.

Argued November 21, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

Article 7 of the treaty with Denmark of April 26, 1826, 8 Stat. 340,
(renewed April 11, 1857, 11 Stat. 719,) places no limitation upon the
right of either government to deal with its own citizens and their
property, within its dominion.
Therefore, where a native of Denmark, who became a naturalized
citizen of the United States, died a resident and property owner in
the State of Iowa, and in the settlement there of his estate inheritance taxes were imposed in respect of legacies to subjects and residents of Denmark, the treaty affords the legatees no basis for complaining of the discrimination of the Iowa law (1907 Supp. Code,

PETERSEN v. IOWA.
170.

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 1467), which taxes legacies to nonresident aliens higher than those
given under similar conditions to residents of the State without regard to the residence or nationality of the testator.
The favored nation clause in Article 1 of the above cited treaty with
Denmark is applicable only "in respect of commerce and navigation;" it does not apply where the discrimination complained of is
in the rates of state inheritance taxes.
166 Iowa, 617, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh O'Neill for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Freeman C. Davidson,
Havner, Attorney General of
Mr. C. A. Robbins, Assistant
State of Iowa, were on the
error.

with whom Mr. H. M.
the State of Iowa, and
Attorney General of the
brief, for defendants in

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Anna M. Anderson, a native of Denmark, but a naturalized citizen of the United States, died in the State of
Iowa where she resided and owned property. By her
will she gave money legacies to her nephews and nieces
who were subjects of the Kingdom of Denmark and resided therein. By the death duties imposed by the law of
the State of Iowa a higher rate was imposed on legacies
made to nonresident aliens than was payable on those
given under similar conditions to residents of Iowa
whether made by a citizen or by resident or nonresident aliens. (ยง 1467, 1907 Supplement to the Code
of Iowa.) The representative of the estate of Anderson in filing his accounts having credited himself with
the sum due to the State on the legacies, which he had
paid, the foreign legatees opposed the allowance of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

credit on the ground that the charge of a greater sum to
them because they were aliens and nonresidents than
would have been charged against them had they been
residents, was illegal because in conflict with a treaty
between the United States and Denmark. The case is
here to review the action of the court below rejecting
such contention and upholding the validity of the charge.
166 Iowa, 617.
The court, conceding that if the treaty were applicable
it would be controlling, based its conclusion solely on the
ground that the treaty when rightly considered did not
apply, and in the argument at bar the error of this conclusion is the sole ground relied upon.
The treaty is that of April 26, 1826 (8 Stat. 340), renewed in 1857 (11 Stat. 719), and the particular clauses
invoked are Article 1, the favored nation clause, and
Article 7, dealing more directly with the subject under
consideration. We postpone momentarily the first to
come at once to the latter. The article is as follows:
"The United States and his Danish. Majesty mutually
agree, that no higher or other duties, charges, or taxes of
any kind, shall be levied in the territories or dominions
of either party, upon any personal property, money, or
effects, of their respective citizens or subjects, on the removal of the same from their territories or dominions
reciprocally, either upon the inheritance of such property,
money, or effects, or otherwise, than are or shall be payable in each State, upon the same, when removed by a
citizen or subject of such State respectively."
It is obvious that the article places restrictions upon
the authority of the respective countries to impose taxes,
duties or charges under the circumstances and conditions
for which it provides. Conceding that it requires construction to determine whether the prohibitions embrace
taxes generically considered, or death duties, or excises
on the right to transfer and remove property, singly or

PETERSEN v. IOWA.
170.

Opinion of the Court.

collectively, we are of the opinion that the duty of interpretation does not arise since in no event would any of
the prohibitions be applicable to the case before us. We
are constrained to this conclusion because the case here
presented concerns only the power of the State of Iowa
to deal with a citizen of that State and her property there
situated, while the prohibitions of the treaty, giving to
them their widest significance, apply only to a citizen of
Denmark and his right to dispose of his property situated
in the State of Iowa. This is undoubted because there
is no controversy as to the first, the citizenship in Iowa,
and there is not room for substantial doubt as to the
latter, since on the face of the treaty the contractual limitations which it provides are manifestly intended not to
control or limit the right of either of the governments to
deal with its own citizens and their property within its
borders, but were solely intended to restrict the power of
both of the governments to deal with citizens of the other
and their property within its dominions. But, if the mere
letter of portions of the article when separately considered
would leave room for any doubt on the subject, it would
be dispelled by the context and by the consideration that
the foundation of the provision is the recognition of the
plenary power of each country to legislate according to
its conceptions of public welfare as to its own citizens and
their property within its jurisdiction. Indeed that which
is contracted against is merely a departure by discrimination by either one of the countries against the citizens
of the other and their property therein from the legislation governing their own citizens. In other words, the
right of the citizens of each of the contracting countries
reciprocally to own, dispose of or transmit their property
situated in the other country, free from provisions or restrictions discriminating because of alienage, is in the
largest possible sense that which is protected by the treaty.
And conversely this being true, it follows also that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

treaty did not protect the right of the citizens of either
country to acquire by transfer or inheritance property
situated in the other belonging to its own citizens free
from the restraints imposed by the law of such country
on its own citizens even although such restraints would
not have been applicable in case the property had been
disposed of or transmitted to a citizen.
The ruling in Frederickson v. Louisiana, 23 How. 445,
while it concerned a treaty with a different country, is
here aptly illustrative and persuasively controlling. In
that case the contention was that limitations contained
in a treaty between the United States and the King of
Wurttemburg forbidding discrimination as to the disposal or transmission of their property by subjects of the
King of Wurttemburg were applicable to property in the
State of Louisiana of a citizen of that State because of
the accidental circumstance that the property had passed
by the death of such citizen to subjects of the King of
Wurttemburg, nonresidents in the United States. In
holding the contention to be unfounded it was said (p.
447):
"But we concur with the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in the opinion that the treaty does not regulate the testamentary dispositions of citizens or subjects of the contracting Powers, in reference to property within the country of their origin or citizenship. The cause of the treaty
was, that the citizens and subjects of each of the contracting Powers were or might be subject to onerous taxes
upon property possessed by them within the States of
the other, by reason of their alienage, and its purpose
was to enable such persons to dispose of their property,
paying such duties only as the inhabitants of the country
where the property lies pay under like conditions. The
case of a citizen or subject of the respective countries
residing at home, and disposing of property there in favor
of a citizen or subject of the other, was not in the contem-

PETERSEN v. IOWA.
170.

Opinion of the Court.

plation of the contracting Powers, and is not embraced in
in this article of the treaty."
And this view disposes of the elaborate argument concerning the right of the foreign legatees to remove 'the
property as there is here no question of a burden placed
by the State of Iowa on the right to remove other than
that which the argument assumes may have indirectly
resulted from the payment of the lawful duty imposed
by the State of Iowa upon its own citizens and as to their
property within its own borders. The duty to pay on
such property which preceded and accompanied the right
of such foreign legatees was not a burden upon their
right to remove their property, as such right of property
on their part was dependent on the payment and could
not and did not arise until the payment was made. United
States v. Perkins, 163 U. S.625.
This leaves only the contention as to the favored nation
clause contained in the first article of the treaty. But as
to that it suffices to say that the argument does not take
into view, but disregards the words by which the clause
is limited and which expressly make it applicable only "in
respect of commerce and navigation," a limitation which
it has been settled does not embrace the subject we are
now dealing with. Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490, 494.
Affirmed.

