OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

KRAMER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 680. Argued December 13, 14, 1917.-Decided January 14, 1918.
After an examination of the entire record, the court finds no merit in
the contention that the case should have been withheld from the
jury for want of evidence tending to show the accused guilty of the
crime charged-a conspiracy (with overt acts) to violate the Selective
Draft Law, by dissuading persons from registering.
As to other questions, the case is indistinguishable from Goldman v.
United States, ante, 474, and is decided on the authority of that case
and the Selective Draft Law Cases, ante, 366.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry Weinberger for plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert S;old was
on the brief, for the United States. See ante, 368.
Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. Joseph E. Black, by leave

of court, filed a brief as amici curiw.
Mr. Walter Nelles, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curi.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In this case, as in No. 702, just previously decided,
ante, 474, because of constitutional questions the case was
brought here by direct writ of error, with the object of re-

KRAMER v. UNITED STATES.
478.

Opinion of the Court.

viewing and reversing a conviction and sentence under
an indictment charging an unlawful conspiracy to induce
persons, whose duty it was to register under the Selective Draft Law, not to perform that duty, and alleging
overt acts done for the purpose of carrying out the illegal
conspiracy. The defenses were substantially the same as
those urged in the previous case and the assignments of
error made at the time of the allowance of the writs were
identical. In fact, at bar the propositions and arguments
relied upon in the previous case were stated to be controlling in this. But, therefore, for the fact that there was
different evidence in the two cases, the considerations
which control the one control the other. No distinction,
however, results from that difference, since we are of opinion in this case as we were in the other, after an examination of the entire record, that the contention that
there was no evidence tending to show guilt. and hence
the case should have been taken from the jury, is without
merit.
As thus any conceivable distinction between the two
cases is removed, it follows that for the reasons stated in
the Goldman Case, ante, 474, just decided, and in the Arver
Case, [Selective Draft Law Cases] ante, 366, as to the constitutional questions, the judgment below in this case must
be and it is
Affirmed.

