OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

the sale of mineral lands, and also of other lands, and concluded with a reservation of the school sections "from
such sales." The real question was whether those sections were reserved from both classes of sales, and this the
court answered in the affirmative. Some observations in
the opinion are not in accord with our present conclusion.
These were relied upon in Mining Co. v. Consolidated
Mining Co., supra, as our records show, and were in effect
disapproved. Besides, when they were made the public
policy respecting mineral lands had not been expressed in
general and permanent laws, such as were afterwards enacted and carried into the Revised Statutes. See Lindley
on Mines, 3d ed., § 136. The case, therefore, is neither
controlling nor persuasive here.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

did not participate in the

consideration or decision of this case.

NORTHERN OHIO TRACTION & LIGHT COMPANY ET AL. v. STATE OF OHIO ON THE RELATION OF PONTIUS, PROSECUTING ATTORNEY OF STARK COUNTY, OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF .OHI0.
No. 60.

Argued October 18, 19, 1917.-Decided January 28, 1918.

Where there are no controlling provisions in state constitution or statutes and no prior adjudication by its courts to the contrary, a fran-

chise for an interurban electric railway, granted by the proper state

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

authority without limit as to duratioh, and in the absence of circumstances showing an intention to give or accept a mere revocable
right, is a contract not subject to annulment at the will of the
granting authority.
Under the constitution and statutes of Ohio in 1892, county commissioners had power to grant franchises over public roads valid for
twenty-five years, if not perpetually.
A resolution of county commissioners purporting to revoke an electric
railway franchise, and treated by the state court as having that
effect, amounts to state action, and, the franchise not being so revocable, such resolution impairs its obligation and is void.
Upon review of a judgment erroneously treating a franchise as revocable at the will of a board of county commissioners and upholding
the board's resolution purporting to revoke it, the court is not called
upon to determine whether the franchise term has since expired by
limitation, or whether the state legislature (which has not acted)
may have reserved power to revoke or repeal the franchise.
93 Ohio St. 466, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Welty and Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with whom
Mr. John C. Weadock was on the briefs, for Northern
Ohio Traction & Light Co.
Mr. W. T. Holiday filed a brief for Cleveland Trust
.
Co., plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank N. Sweitzer and Mr. Hubert C. Pontius for
defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE M REYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.

The Northern Ohio Traction & Light Company through
successive assignments from William A. Lynch acquired
the interurban electric railroad between Canton and Mas-

sillon, Ohio, October, 1906; The Cleveland Trust Company is trustee under a mortgage on the road intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

secure an issue of bonds. The line was constructed under
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners, Stark
County, passed February 22, 1892, which granted to William A. Lynch, and such railroad corporation as he might
cause to be incorporated for that purpose, the right to locate, construct, maintain and operate an electric railroad
along the state highway without specifying any limit of
time. This resolution is copied in the margin.'
1 Resolution for Right of Way for Electric Railway.
Resolved, that the right is hereby granted to William A. Lynch and
to such railroad corporation as he may cause to be incorporated for
that purpose to locate, construct, maintain and operate an electric
railroad along either side of the state road running between Canton
and Massillon, between the line of the Canton Street Railway and the
corporate limits of the city of Massillon, said road to be constructed
of ties and rails in the customary manner with the necessary poles and
wires for an electric railroad. The ties shall not be laid nearer to the
center line of said road than nine feet, except where switches are constructed, at which places the present traveled driveway may be slightly
changed from its location to allow for the construction of such switches.
Wherever cutting or filling may be necessary in order to establish a suitable grade for said railroad, and such cutting or filling encroaches upon
the traveled portion of said road, or nearer than nine feet from the center of the road or wherever the cut or fill would interfere with the usefulness or safety of the road, at all such places the grade of the road
shall be changed and its bed shall be re-graveled so as to restore it to
its present state of usefulness, instead of locating said railroad on one
side of the center line as above provided, the same may be located,
along the center line of said road, along the whole or any portion thereof
provided that in such case wherever so located said railroad company,
or the property owners along the road shall cause a good and sufficient
roadway to be graded on each side of said railroad, each of said roadways to be not less than sixteen feet wide in cuts and not less than
eighteen feet wide on fills, and each roadway shall be graveled to a
width of ten feet and eight inches in thickness and put in condition
for public travel without unreasonable delay. In case the railroad is
built upon the side of the road, crossings shall be constructed of plank
or other suitable materials, at all public highway crossings or intersections and in front of all private driveways on the side of the road on
which said railroad may be located. If the railroad be constructed in

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. b. OHIO.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

A disagreement concerning rates having arisen, by resolution of March 27, 1912, the Commissioners declared
the original grant to Lynch not a perpetual franchise but
subject to termination by either party and that the passenger rate was excessive and should be reduced. It continued, "therefore, be it resolved, that unless said Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company comply with the
above mentioned matters of reduction of amount of fare
charged for transporting people between the cities of Canton and Massillon and from intermediate points, together
with the transfer on the city lines of Canton and Massillon, on or before the twenty-seventh day of April, 1912,
the said grant given to said William A. Lynch on February 22, 1892, to operate an electric railroad between the
said cities of Canton and Massillon, is hereby declared
terminated and the prosecuting attorney of this county
is hereby instructed to take such legal proceedings as may
be necessary to have said grant made null and void
the center of the road, the track shall be laid so that the ties shall not
be above the level of the highway on either side at the ends of the tics,
materially, or so as to prevent the crossing of teams and vehicles over
said railroad with reasonable convenience. All work that may be done
under this resolution upon and along said state road shall be done under the supervision and subject to the control and to the approval and
acceptance of the commissioners, they reserving the right to make such
minor changes in location and the plans and methods of grading the
highway as the public interests may require. It being understood and
agreed that said Wm.A. Lynch or the railroad company, before commencing any part of said work shall enter into a bond in the sum of ten
thousand dollars for the faithful performance of the conditions enjoined
upon them by this resolution. This resolution to be of no binding ef-

fect until such bond is duly executed and accepted. It being further
understood and agreed that said Win. A. Lynch or the railroad company before commencing any part of said work shall enter into a bond
in the sum of ($5,000) five thousand dollars conditional that said Win.
A. Lynch or said railroad company shall keep said county and said
board perfectly harmless from any and all liability to abutting property owners growing out of the construction of said road.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

and the said electric railway removed from said public
highway between the said cities of Canton and Massillon."
April 26, 1912, the Commissioners returning to the matter resolved:
"In the event that said demands axe not met by said
company on or before the time mentioned in the said resolution of March 27th, 1912, the prosecuting attorney of
this county be and he is hereby instructed to immediately
proceed to have injunction proceedings filed against said
Northern Ohio Traction & Light Company, restraining said
company from operating said electric railway on the public highway between the cities of Canton and Massillon
or running cars thereon and to further compel said Northern Ohio Traction & Light Company to remove said railway from said public highway, and be it further resolved,
that this resolution be contingent upon and in accordance
with the conditions of the said resolution passed by this
board on March 27th, 1912,
Accordingly, August 13, 1912, Charles Krichbaum,
Prosecuting Attorney, instituted quo warranto proceedings in the Circuit Court asking that plaintiff in error
Traction & Light Company be ousted from exercising the
franchise to operate a railroad along the Canton-MassilIon highway, and be compelled to remove its tracks and
switches. A demurrer was sustained because (1) the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action; (2) it did not state facts sufficient to justify relief prayed; (5) plaintiff had no legal power to try or bring
the action. No appeal was taken from a final judgment
entered June 3, 1913.
February 19, 1913, the Commissioners adopted another
'resolution which, after referring to the one of 1892 and
the construction and operation of the railroad, stated that
the grant continued from day to day so long as both parties consented and could be terminated at will, and then

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

declared "that said term of said grant and conveyance
be terminated on this date." It is in the margin.'
1Resolution

of the County Commissioners

of Stark County,

Ohio.
Whereas, the county commissioners of Stark County, Ohio, on the
22nd day of February, 1892, passed a resolution appearing on pages
17, 18, and 19 of Volume 8, Commissioners' Journal, Stark county,
Ohio, and said resolution is as follows: [Here follows a copy of the resolution granting a right of way to Lynch above set out] and,
Whereas, an electric interurban railway, some time after the passage
of said resolution, was built and constructed from Canton, Ohio, to
Massillon, Ohio, upon the state road between said cities, the course
described in the aforesaid resolution, and
Whereas, cars are now being operated upon said interurban electric
railway and have been so operated for some years, by persons or companies, claiming to derive their rights and title from the said William
A. Lynch, and claiming that their said title, right and interest emanate
from the aforesaid resolution, and
Whereas, The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company, a corporation, is now and has been, for several years last past, operating
the interurban electric cars over said railway and carrying passengers
over said interurban electric railway between the cities of Canton and
Massillon, Ohio, and
Whereas, the said The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company
claims its rights, interests and privileges for the conducting of said business as assignee, transferee and successors of the said William A. Lynch,
and his assigns or successors, based and founded upon the aforesaid
resolution passed by the county commissioners of Stark county, Ohio,
on the 22nd day of February, 1892, and recorded on pages 17, 18 and
19 of Volume 8, Commissioners' Journal, Stark county, Ohio, and
Whereas, the commissioners of the county of Stark and state of Ohio
contend,
First. That the said William A. Lynch, at the time of the enactment
of said resolution of the commissioners of Stark county, was not an incorporated company and was not entitled to the privileges of which a
company incorporated in Ohio for the purpose of owning and operating
an interurban electric line, was not such an entity that he could accept
the interests, rights and titles granted by the county commissioners of
Stark county in the aforesaid resolution.
Second. That whatever right, title, interest and privilege, if any,
were conveyed by the aforesaid resolution to the said William A. Lynch

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Obeying this last resolution, Hubert C. Pontius, Prosecuting Attorney, instituted the proceeding under review
in the Supreme Court of Ohio. The petition alleged control of the railway by the Traction & Light Company; set
up resolutions of 1892 and 1913 authorizing its construction and directing removal; and declared the company
continued operations "which said conduct plaintiff avers
is without warrant or authority of law." It concluded,
"wherefore, because of the premises and matters herein
were conveyed and granted to the said Willian A. Lynch and to him
alone, said grant and conveyance being a personal one.
Third. That the term of the grant included in the aforesaid resolution of the county commissioners, passed by the county commissioners
on the 22nd day of February, 1892, as aforesaid is an indeterminate
one, continuing from day to day and that said term extends and continues only so long as both parties to said grant and conveyance, to
wit: Stark county, Ohio, through its board of county commissioners,
the grantor, and William A. Lynch, or any company he might organize
and incorporate, or any successor of the said William A. Lynch or the
said company he might organize, the grantee, agree and consent, and
that said grant and conveyance can be terminated at any time by
either party to said grant and conveyance, or those claiming to hold
or holding under said grant.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the board of commissioners of
Stark county, Ohio, assembled in session, that said term of said grant
and conveyance be terminated on this date, to take effect on this date,
and that the board of commissioners of Stark county, Ohio, refuse to
extend to The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company, which
company claims to hold, title, right and interest as the successor, assignee and transferee of the aforesaid William A. Lynch and his successors and assignees, or either of them, the term for the operation of
the aforesaid interurban electric railroad beyond this date.
Be it resolved that The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company
be notified that the commissioners of Stark county, Ohio, have on this
date terminated the term of said grant and conveyance, under which
said grant The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company claim the
right and privilege of operating said interurban electric railroad between Canton and Massillon, Ohio, and that the county of Stark and
state of Ohio and the board of commissioners of Stark county, Ohio,
will regard and do regard the operation of an interurban electric rail-

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. t,. OHIO.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

set forth, the plaintiff prays the advice of the court, and
that the defendant, to wit, The Northern Ohio Traction
and Light Company, be compelled to answer by what
warrant it claims to have the use and to enjoy the rights,
privileges and franchises aforesaid, in the operation of its
said interurban electric railroad between the cities of Canton and Massillon, Ohio, in said county and state; and
that it be ousted from exercising the same and be compelled to remove its tracks and switches from the said
Canton-Massillon road between the corporate limits of
the said cities of Canton and Massillon, and plaintiff further prays that such other and further relief be granted
in the premises as to the court may seem just and proper."
road between Canton and Massillon, Ohio, on said state road running
between Canton and Massillon, Ohio, from this date forward a usurpation and infringement upon the rights of said Stark county, Ohio,
and said board of commissioners of said Stark county, Ohio.
Be it resolved that the prosecuting attorney of Stark county, Ohio,
be directed and is hereby directed to take whatever steps he may deem
necessary and advisable to prohibit and prevent The Northern Ohio
Traction and Light Company or any other person, individual, corporation or company from continuing to operate an interurban electric
railroad between the cities of Massillon and Canton, Ohio, on the state
road, running between said cities by virtue of any rights, title or interest the said The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company or any
other person, individual, corporation or company may claim as resulting from the aforesaid resolution, enacted by the county commissioners
of Stark county, Ohio, on February 22, 1892.
Be it resolved that the said The Northern Ohio Traction and Light
Company be directed and is hereby directed to remove all its property,
equipment and belongings from the right of way described by the aforesaid resolution, herein referred to as having been passed by the county
commissioners of Stark county, Ohio, on February 22, 1892, and now
occupied by the said The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company,
at once.
Be it resolved that a copy of this resolution be sent or delivered, and
the auditor of Stark county, Ohio, is hereby directed to send or deliver
to The Northern Ohio Traction and Light Company a copy of this
resolution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

The answer relied upon final judgment in proceedings
instituted by Krichbaum as an adjudication of the grant's
validity; also a resolution by the county commissioners
May 3, 1909, providing for double tracking as recognition
and continuation of original franchise. And further, "this
defendant says that said resolution of February 22, 1892,
and said amending resolution of May 3, 1909, by the acceptance thereof by this defendant and its predecessors
in title, constitute a contract between the board of county
commissioners of Stark county, Ohio, and this defendant,
and that any ouster of this defendant from its use and operation of said electric railroad between Canton and Massillon would be an impairment of the obligation of this
defendant's contract, and a taking of this defendant's
property without due process of law, and would also be
a denial to this defendant of the equal protection of the
law, all in violation of the Constitutions of Ohio and of
the United States."
Without opinion or other explanation the Supreme
Court pronounced the following decree October 19, 1915:
"This cause came on to be heard on the pleadings and the
evidence and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, the court finds upon the issues joined in favor
of the plaintiff on the authority of Gas Company v. The
City of Akron, 81 Ohio St. 33. It is, therefore, ordered
and adjudged that the said defendant be ousted from the
exercise and use of the rights, privileges and franchise described in the petition of the plaintiff in the operation of
the interurban electric railroad therein described, and it
is hereby ordered to remove its tracks and switches from
the said Canton and Massillon road between the corporate limits of the said Cities of Canton and Massillon
within ninety days from this date. It is further ordered
and adjudged that the plaintiff recover of the defendant
*"
its costs herein, taxed at $
Dissenting, three members declared: "The sole ques-

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

tion in this case as presented is whether the board of
county commissioners can revoke and annul a franchise
granted by the state without having the power so to do delegated to it by the sovereign authority." 93 Ohio St. 466.
Plaintiffs in error maintain that the Commissioners'
resolution dated February 19, 1913, was an exercise of
state authority repugnant to the Federal Constitution,
because it impaired their contract, took their property
without due process of law, and denied them equal protection of the laws.
In East Ohio Gas Co. v. Akron, (decided October, 1909)
81 Ohio St. 33, relied upon to support the judgment below, a city ordinance, without specifying anything as to
duration, provided "that the East Ohio Gas Company,
its successors and assigns, are hereby granted the right
.to enter upon the streets, alleys and public grounds of the
city of Akron, Ohio, . . . to maintain, operate, repair and remove mains and pipes . . . together with
the right to construct and maintain, repair and remove
all necessary regulators," etc. And the court said (pp.
52, 53): "It is true that the ordinance grants the right to
enter and occupy the streets, but in respect to the time
when it shall terminate its occupancy and withdraw, the
ordinance is silent. May we infer from this silence that
the gas company has a perpetual franchise in the streets?
We are not now prepared to hold that the company has
thus acquired such a perpetual franchise; . . . It
comes then to this, that in the absence of limitations as to
time, the termination of the franchise is indefinite and, to
preserve mutuality in the contract, the franchise can continue only so long as both parties are consenting thereto."
The Supreme Court determined, in effect, that a valid
franchise to construct and maintain the railroad granted
to Lynch and his successors in 1892 was terminated by
resolution of 1913. Accepting this ruling, is the latter resolution inoperative and void because in conflict with

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Art. I, § 10, of the Federal Constitution? Manifestly it
amounted to action by the State. St. Paul Gas Light Co.
v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 148; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S.
150, 163.
It is suggested that in 1892 Ohio statutes only empowered county commissioners to grant franchises not exceeding twenty-five years in duration, and the present one accordingly expired in February, 1917. But by its final
judgment (1915) the Supreme Court recognized a valid
franchise existing in 1913 and declared it ended by the
resolution of that year without discussing the subject of
limitation. Consideration of the point is therefore unnecessary-our concern is with rights struck by the resolution. We express no opinion as to whether those have
now expired. Neither are we concerned with the General
Assembly's reserved power to revoke or repeal privileges;
it has taken no action. Ohio Constitution (1851), Art. I,
§ 2, and Art. XIII, § 2.
Beyond serious doubt, under constitution and statutes
of Ohio in 1892 county commissioners had power to grant
franchises over public roads valid for twenty-five years,
if not perpetually. Nothing said by the state courts prior
to East Ohio Gas Co. v. Akron (1909) is cited which intimates that grants, without specified limit of time, were
revocable at will. Evidently this was not the settled view
in 1903 when the Circuit Court distinctly adjudged that
accepted ordinances by a city between 1861 and 1873,
authorizing construction and operation of street railways,
silent as to time, created perpetual rights, subject however to revocation by the General Assembly. State ex rel.
Taylor v. Columbus Ry. Co. (1903), 1 Ohio C. C. (N. S.),
145. This judgment was affirmed in 1905, 73 Ohio St.
363, "on the sole ground that the defendant had present
right to occupy the streets at the time of the commencement of this action"-a result hardly intelligible upon
the theory that the grants were revocable at will. Appar-

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

ently the doctrine announced in East Ohio Gas Co. v. Akron, was not suggested in either court.
The circumstances surrounding the grant of 1892 show
no intention either to give or accept a mere revocable
right. It would be against common experience to conclude that rational men wittingly invested large sums of
money in building a railroad subject to destruction at any
moment by mere resolution of county commissioners.
Detroitv. Detroit Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 384.
Where there are no controlling provisions in state constitution or statutes and no prior adjudication by its courts
to the contrary, we have distinctly held that franchises
like the one under consideration are contracts not subject
to annulment as here undertaken. Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 649, 664; Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co. v. South Bend, 227 U. S. 544, 556; Owensboro
v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S. 58, 73; Old Colony
Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 117.
As construed by the Supreme Court of Ohio the resolution of 1913 impaired a valid contract, upon which plaintiffs in error properly relied. It was accordingly invalid
and without effect.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE DAY took no part in the consideration or
decision of this cause.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, dissenting.

The parties to this suit are a Board of Commissioners
of an Ohio county and two corporations organized under
the law of the same State, and the jurisdiction of this
court, if it exists at all, must be found in the claim that the
resolution of the County Commissioners of February 19,
1913, is a law of the State of Ohio which impairs the ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

ligation of the grant by the Commissioners of February
22, 1892, within the meaning of the Constitution of the
United States. This resolution, printed in the margin of
the court's opinion, declares that the Commissioners
"contend" that the term of the grant of February 22,
1892, "is an indeterminate one, continuing from day to
day, and that said term extends and continues only so
long as both parties to said grant . . . agree and consent" and tbat it may be terminated at any time by either
party to it. The resolution then declares the grant terminated as of the date of the resolution and that the prosecuting attorney of the county be, and he is, directed to
take such steps as he may deem necessary to prevent
further operation of the railroad on the highway, as provided for by the grant.
The effect of the decision by the Supreme Court of
Ohio is that this "contention" of the County Commissioners that the grant is one determinable at the will of
either party to it, is sound and that the Commissioners
having elected to terminate it the rights of the railway
company were at an end. This court reverses this decision of the state Supreme Court and holds that the grant
of 1892 was not revocable at will by the County Commissioners, that the resolution of February 19, 1913, in terms
revoking it, is invalid and void, and without deciding
whether the power of the Commissioners was limited to
the granting of such a franchise for twenty-five years and
if so whether the grant has expired the court returns the
case to the state courts for further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion.
It is impossible for me to concur in the conclusion thus
arrived at by the court and my reasons for dissenting will
be briefly stated.
The resolution of February 19, 1913, is in terms simply
an expression of the "contention" of the County Commissioners as to the legal effect of the grant of 1892, coupled

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

with notice of their election to terminate the same agreeably to their interpretation of it and with direction and
authority given to the prosecuting attorney of the county
to test in the courts the validity of the position asserted
by the Board.
That such a resolution to apply to the courts of the
country to establish an asserted legal right is not a law
impairing the obligation of a contract is expressly decided,
it seems to me, in Des Moines v. Des Moines City Ry. Co.,
214 U. S. 179, and in principle in Defiance Water Co. v.
Defiance, 191 U. S. 184. A resolution such as was passed
here is the only form in which the Board of County Commissioners could assert, in advance of litigation, its contention as to its rights under the contract, and it is not
different in effect from what it would have been if the
same contention had been expressed in another form,
such as by way of an answer filed in behalf of the Commissioners in a suit brought by the Companies to enforce
what they considered to be their rights under the grant.
The decision of this court that the obligation of the contract was thus impaired amounts to holding "that whenever it is asserted on the one hand that a municipality
[county] is bound by a contract to perform a particular
act and the municipality denies that it is liable under the
contract to do so, thereby an impairment of the obligations of the contract arises in violation of the Constitution of the United States. But this amounts only to the
contention that every case involving a controversy concerning a municipal contract is one of Federal cognizance,
determinable ultimately in this court." This court in the
language quoted has declared such a conclusion to be obvious error in St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U.
S. 142, 149.
These three clear and well reasoned cases seem to me
to correctly decide that the court is without jurisdiction
to consider this case and that it should be dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

But even if we should assume that this court has jurisdiction to decide the case, it, nevertheless, would be impossible for me to concur in the conclusion arrived at.
The resolution of the County Commissioners under discussion does not, in words, define the term for which the
franchise to operate a railroad on the public highway is
to continue. The Supreme Court of Ohio holds that it
results from this failure to define "in express terms," "in
plain terms," the duration of the grant that it should be
considered an indeterminate one, but this court holds that
this failure to clearly define the duration of the grant results in its being a perpetual one, unless it be otherwise
limited by constitution or statute.
The rule for the construction of grants such as we have
here will nowhere to be found more clearly or imperatively
stated than in the decisions of this court.
In Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 463, a decision obviously rendered upon "great consideration," it is declared that a corporation which would successfully assert
a private right in a public street must come prepared to
show that it has been conferred "in plain terms," "in express terms," and that any ambiguity in the terms of the
grant must be resolved in favor of the public and against
the corporation, "which can claim nothing which is not
clearly given." The sound reason given for this rule is that
"grants of this character are usually prepared by those
interested in them," and that "it serves to defeat any purpose concealed by the skillful use of terms, to accomplish
something not apparent on the face of the act." This is
declared to be "sound doctrine which should be vigilantly
observed and enforced."
The Supreme Court of Ohio is not less definite in adopting the same rule of construction, saying, in Railroad Company v. Defiance, 52 Ohio St. 262:
"Every grant in derogation of the right of the public
in the free and unobstructed use of the streets . .

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

will be construed strictly against the grantee, and liberally in favor of the public; and never extended beyond
its express terms when not indispensable to give effect to
the grant."
What results from the application of this rule to the
grant we are considering?
The fact that two such courts as this one and the Supreme Court of Ohio differ so widely that the one holds
the grant on its face to be perpetual, and the other holds
it to be determinable at will, is, to me, convincing evidence
that a perpetual grant is not conferred "in plain terms,"
"in express terms," that it is "something not apparent
on the face of the grant," and that, therefore, to give such
a construction to the resolution is to find in it a most vital
and important provision which "those interested" in obtaining the grant would have been eager to incorporate
into it had they thought it possible to obtain consent to
it. It is impossible for me to doubt that a proposal to the
County Commissioners to make the resolution read "Resolved, that the right is hereby granted
. .
to construct, maintain and operate perpetually an electric railroad
.
on the State road between Canton and
Massillon" would have been summarily rejected by the
Commissioners. The public indignation which the making of such a grant would have excited was sufficient protection against its being made "in plain terms" and the
rule we have quoted, in my judgment, should be the protection of the public against such a result being accomplished by construction.
The Supreme Court of Ohio may have been influenced
in its decision of this case by the fact that from the time
when the development of the State became such as to make
of public importance the terms of grants of street railway
rights in the streets and public roads of that State, the
General Assembly of the State limited to twenty-five years
the term for which such rights might be granted, either

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

by county commissioners or by municipal corporations.
It is difficult for a man living in such a legal atmosphere
with respect to such grants to think in terms of perpetual
franchises. (An attempt to remove this restriction from
grants by county commissioners was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in Railway Company v.
Railway Company, 5 Ohio C. C. (N. S.) 583, affirmed 73
Ohio St. 364.)
The decision of this case by the Supreme Court of Ohio
is without written opinion, but it is rested by the court
upon its previous decision in East Ohio Gas Co. v. Akron, 81 Ohio St. 33. In that case the City of Akron contended that the franchise granted to the Gas Company,
in terms unrestricted as to time, was perpetual, and the
Gas Company contended that it was determinable at the
will of either party. After having the case under advisement for six months, and as the court says in its opinion
"on account of its great importance to the public as well
as to all public service corporations" having given unusual consideration to the case, the contention of the Gas
Company was sustained and the grant was held "simply
determinable, existing only as the parties mutually agree
thereto." Paragraph three of the syllabus of the case,
which in Ohio has the approval of the entire court, reads:
"While much regard will be given to the clear intention of the parties, yet where the contract is entirely silent
as to a particular matter, the courts will exercise great
caution not to include in the contract, by construction,
something which was intended to be excluded."
This decision was rendered in 1909 by a unanimous
court, and six years later it was made authority for the decision of this case. There is no Supreme Court authority
in Ohio to the contrary. The judgment by an inferior
court, cited in the majority opinion, that street railway
grants made before the statutory limit of twenty-five years
was imposed and silent as to duration were perpetual, was

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

promptly discountenanced when the case reached the Supreme Court. 73 Ohio St. 363.
A decision by a state Supreme Court, repeated after
the lapse of six years, of a question involving the construction of local laws is, in my judgment, entitled to very
great weight.
There was no question raised in the Ohio court but that
a contract was created by the passing and accepting of
the resolution of 1892, and the record shows that the sole
question for decision, and which was decided, was, whether
the grant was an indeterminate or a perpetual one. If
the grant had contained an express provision that it was
revocable at will, it would have been impossible, having
any regard to the meaning of words, to have said that the
resolution of 1913 impaired its obligation. It would have
been simply and only a form of exercising a legal right
the exercise of which was contemplated by the contract.
The case is not different if the grant, without such expression, really means, as the Supreme Court of Ohio held
that it means, the same thing as if such provision had
been incorporated into it, and since the state court arrived
at its result by the construction of the grant wholly unaffected by the subsequent resolution terminating it, it
seems clear enough, upon repeated decisions of this court,
that a decision should not be rendered here based on the
theory that the grant was impaired by a resolution in form
terminating it. While this court has held that in such
cases it will for itself determine whether a contract exists
and what its terms are, yet where the decision of the state
court is so manifestly unaffected by the later "law" as it
is in this case, it should be given weight and authority
comparable at least to that which would have been given
it if it had been directed to the validity of the granting
"law" under the state constitution.
The power to declare laws of States unconstitutional
,and to reverse the judgments of the Supreme Courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

245 U. S.

States is so fateful and is so unprecedented in the history
of governments other than ours that, as this court has repeatedly declared, it should be exercised only in cases
which are clear, and it is impossible for me to think that
this is such a case.
The only reason given by the court in its opinion for
differing with the Supreme Court of Ohio in its construction of the granting resolution of 1892 is that "The circumstances surrounding the grant of 1892 show no intention either to give or accept a mere revocable right. It
would be against common experience to conclude that rational men wittingly invested large sums of money in
building a railroad subject to destruction at any moment
by mere resolution of county commissioners."
There is no evidence whatever in this record that there
were any special circumstances "surrounding the grant
of 1892," and to undertake to infer what the unexpressed
intention of the parties to this grant was twenty-five years
ago is, it seems to me, an unusual and unpromising enterprise.
That it would be against common experience to conclude that rational men would wittingly invest their money
in a railroad constructed under a grant determinable by
the action of county commissioners is reasoning which it
seems is more persuasive with courts than with investors
or men of affairs. To reason upon what is reasonable is
always uncertain and often misleading, but in this case
we have ascertained facts to guide us.
Until recent years street railroad franchises (locations),
and also electric light, gas, and other public utility franchises were revocable in Massachusetts, by aldermen in
cities, and by selectmen in towns (counties), and they are
still in the main so revocable, save that as to railroad
grants revocation is now subject to approval by the State
Railroad Commission, and as to some other "locations"
revocation is subject to approval by the Board of Gas and

NORTHERN OHIO TRAC. CO. v. OHIO.
574.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

Electric Light Commissioners. Mass. Rev. Laws, 1902,
vol. II, §§ 7, 32, pp. 1044, 1051. Springfield v. Springfield Street Ry. Co., 182 Massachusetts, 41, 48; Boston
Electric Light Co. v. Boston Terminal Co., 184 Massachusetts, 566; Metropolitan Home Telephone Co. v. Emerson,
202 Massachusetts, 402. Yet hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in that State in dependence upon
these revocable ordinances.
In legislating for the District of Columbia, Congress
has followed the Massachusetts example and has made
street railroad grants indeterminate and revocable at the
will of Congress. 12 Stat. 390, §6; 27 Stat. 334, §8.
Wisconsin, in 1907, adopted the principle of indeterminate franchises (Laws of Wisconsin, 1909, § 1797t), and
the new constitution of Michigan recognizes it by providing that any franchise not revocable at will shall require
the affirmative vote of sixty per cent. of the voters before
it can become valid. Constitution, 1908, Art. 8, § 25.
Wilcox Municipal Franchises, vol. I, pp. 36, 37, vol. II,
pp. 46, 47, and c. 27.
This form of franchise has been called "a tenure during good behavior," it has resulted in superior service to
the public and, to the surprise of those who reason a priori on the subject, such franchises have proved in effect
perpetual. This type of franchise is undergoing modification in various parts of the country, which will, no
doubt, improve it, but, of it even as it now is, Wilcox has
this to say:
"Unquestionably, with the recognition of the unspeakable wrong that is inherent in the grant of perpetual franchises, and the great practical disadvantages that usually
arise in connection with limited-terin grants, public sentiment is rapidly crystallizing in favor of the indeterminate franchise as the most promising basis for public control of street railways." Municipal Franchises, vol. II,
p. 240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
245 U. S.

Syllabus.

Perpetual franchises have proved to be such a burden
in communities upon which they have been imposed (Wilcox, vol. II, c. 26) that, for the reasons so well stated in
Blair v. Chicago, supra, it is impossible for me to agree
that any grant is perpetual unless the language used in it
is so express and clear that reasonable men cannot differ
in giving to it that effect.
Thus for the reasons (1) That a perpetual grant is not
"in plain terms" made by the resolution of 1892; (2) That
appropriate consideration seems to me not to be given to
the decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio, and (3) That
the reasons stated for inferring that an irrevocable franchise was intended by the granting power in the case before us are not sound reasons, I should dissent from the
opinion of the court even if convinced that it had jurisdiction to decide the case.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

SUPREME

LODGE

concurs in this dissent.

KNIGHTS
SMYTH.

OF PYTHIAS

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 107. Argued January 2, 1918.-Decided January 28, 1918.
The appellant had the right to increase the assessment upon the insurance certificate here concerned, and there was jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, the case involving a construction of a federal charter.
The case is ruled on both points by Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias
v. Mims, 241 U. S. 574. See also Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hill,
237 U. S. 208.
220 Fed. Rep. 438, reversed.

