OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373; Wisconsin v. Hitchcock, 201 U. S. 202.
We reach the conclusion that the lands in controversy
did not pass under the school lands grant to the State of
Wisconsin, and that there should be a decree for the defendant.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration or disposition of this case.

UNITED STATES v. J. S. STEARNS LUMBER
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 94.

Argued December 18, 1917.-Decided January 7, 1918.

By the treaty of 1842, proclaimed in 1843, 7 Stat. 591, the Lake Superior Chippewas ceded lands in Wisconsin, reserving privileges of
occupancy until removed by the President. Wisconsin was admitted
in 1848. The treaty of 1854, proclaimed in 1855, 10 Stat. 1109, set
apart from the ceded lands a reservation for the Indians, their occupancy not having been disturbed in the meantime, and provided
for surveying this reserved land and for allotting it in severalty, at
the discretion of the President. Allotment patents were issued accordingly in 1907, withholding all right of alienation without the
President's consent; and under them the allottees resided on and
claimed their several tracts. The lands in controversy, comprised by
the original occupancy, the reservation and allotments, were surveyed
as sections numbered 16, but not until 1864 and 1873. Held, that,
as the treaty and reservation operated to withdraw the sections before survey and the allotments merely provided a home for the Indians as promised by the treaty, in furtherance of the purpose of

UNITED STATES v. STEARNS LUMBER CO. 437
436.

Opinion of the Court.

the reservation, the sections were disposed of within the meaning of
the school section grant in the Wisconsin enabling act, and title
did not pass to the State either before or after the allotments. Wisconsin v. Lane, ante, 427.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States.
Mr. Arthur Dyrenforth, with whom Mr. W. W. Gurley
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States brought its bill to cancel patents
from the State of Wisconsin held by the J. S. Stearns
Lumber Company and covering certain lands in the Bad
River or LaPointe Indian Reservation in the State of
Wisconsin. The District Court dismissed the bill for
want of equity. There is no controversy as to the facts,
and it appears that the Lake Superior Chippewas by
treaty of October 4, 1842, proclaimed March 23, 1843,
7 Stat. 59.1, ceded large tracts of land in Wisconsin and
Michigan to the United States, reserving the right of
hunting on the ceded territory, and other usual privileges
of occupancy until removed by the President. Within
the Wisconsin territory were included the sections 16 in
question, lying in township 46 north, ranges 2 and 3 west,
and township 47 north, in range 2 west.
Wisconsin was admitted to the Union in 1848. The
enabling act contained the provision as to the school
sections recited in Wisconsin v. Lane, just decided, ante,
427. The President did not remove the Indians, and on
September 30, 1854, a treaty was made with them, proclaimed January 29, 1855, 10 Stat. 1109, -whereby the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

United States set apart the LaPointe Reservation in Wisconsin, and provided for surveys and allotments in severalty from time to time of such reserved lands in the
discretion of the President.
This reservation embraces the land in controversy,
nothing was said in the treaty about sections numbered
sixteen. The sectional survey, identifying sections 16,
as to one of the townships was made in 1864, as to the
other two in 1873. From 1881 to 1887 the State of Wisconsin claiming to own these lands under its school land
grant, patented them to various persons, under whom
the Lumber Company claims title.
In 1907 allotment patents were issued by the President
of the United States to the Indians in severalty under
article 3 of the treaty of 1854, the allottees have since
resided on the reservation, and claim the lands allotted
and patented to them. The patents in each case contained a provision that the allottee and his heirs shall not
sell, lease or in any manner alienate the lands except
with the consent of the President. From 1909 to 1912
timber on the lands in dispute, Which had been damaged
by fire, was cut for sale by the Lumber Company under
stipulation made with approval of the United States, and
the value of the lumber so realized was deposited in banks
for the benefit of the parties entitled thereto, the amount
so deposited being $66,833.56.
This case does not need extended discussion as in our
opinion it is controlled by the decision of this court just
rendered in Wisconsin v. Lane, ante, 427. The treaty of
1854 authorized the ultimate allotment in severalty to
the Indians of the lands reserved by it. Afterwards such
allotment of the sections in question was made by the
President of the United States in carrying out the purposes of the treaty. Considering the obligations of the
United States in favor of its Indian wards imposed by
this treaty, and the purpose for which these lands were

UNITED STATES 7,.STEARNS LUMBER CO. 439
436.

Opinion of the Court.

reserved, we are of opinion that the treaty with these
provisions in favor of the Indians amounts to a disposition of the lands within the authority of Congress, and
is not inconsistent with the enabling act under which the
school lands were provided for the State.
Considering that the lands were reserved by the treaty
long before they were surveyed and the sections identified, the fact that they were after survey allotted in
severalty to the Indians does not in our view enable the
State to claim the sixteenth sections under the school
lands grant. What was ultimately done in the process
of allotment was merely to provide a home for these
Indians in furtherance of the purpose with which the
reservation was made. (See Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. v. United States, 235 U. S. 37, 40.)
We are of opinion that the disposition of the lands by
treaty in favor of the Indians, before the survey identifying the school sections, was but an exercise of the right
of the United States to make other disposition of the
lands, and the State of Wisconsin must seek indemnity
elsewhere, as provided by law. It follows that the judgment of the United States District Court for the Western
District of Wisconsin must be reversed, and the cause is
remanded for'further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or disposition of this case.

