BURTON v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
312.

315

Counsel for Parties.

guage used by the testator is broader in scope, but manifests quite as clearly, his intention that the principal shall
not be paid over under circumstances which would result
in any part of it being applied in satisfying debts previously incurred by Francis. The Bankruptcy Act presents no obstacle to carrying out the testator's intention.
Eaton v. Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Co., 240 U. S. 427.
As the Court of Appeals said: "The nature of the condition
itself determines the controversy." The judgment is
Afflrmed.

BURTON v. NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
HEEREN v. NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 71, 72. Argued November 21, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Article IV, § 2, subdivision 2, of the Constitution places no limitation
upon the power of the States to arrest in advance of extradition proceedings; with Rev. Stats., § 5278, it deals merely with the conditions
under which one State may demand rendition from another and
under which the alleged fugitive may resist compliance by the State
upon which the demand is made.
147 App. Div. 557; 210 N. Y. 567, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William F. Connell for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Robert A. Kutschboc, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Paulding and Mr. Alex. S. Lyman were on the brief, for
defendant in error.

,316

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
These actions, which were tried together in the Supreme
Court of New York and argued together here, arise out
of the same facts and involve the same question of law.
The plaintiffs, mother and daughter, both residents of
Pennsylvania, occupied the same berth in a Pullman car
while travelling from their home to New York City. At
Syracuse, New York, police officers of that city entered
the car, arrested the plaintiffs and, at the next station,
removed them from the train. The officers in making
the arrest acted without a warrant, upon telegraphic
orders from the police department of Rochester, New
York, in the belief that one of the plaintiffs was the woman
implicated in atrocious murders which had recently been
committed in Indiana. Investigation soon disclosed that
this belief was unfounded; and they were promptly discharged from custody. These suits were then brought
against the defendant to recover damages for the annoyance and indignities suffered. Plaintiffs contended that
defendant had an affirmative duty to protect them as
passengers from a wrongful arrest, and had failed to perform it. The trial court refused to permit plaintiffs to
go to the jury and dismissed the complaints. Exceptions
to these orders were overruled by the Appellate Division
(147 App. Div. 557); the judgments entered for defendant
were affirmed by the Court of Appeals (210 N. Y. 567-8);
and the cases come here on writs of error.
Plaintiffs duly claimed that they had been denied rights
secured by Article IV, § 2, subdivision 2, of the Federal
Constitution.' The contention is that by reason of this
1 Article

IV, § 2, subdivision 2:
"A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other crime,
who shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall on de-

BURTON v. NEW YORK CENT. R. R. CO.
315.

317

Opinion of the Court.

clause of the Constitution, they could not legally be arrested in New York for a crime committed in another
State, except upon compliance with the provisions of
§ 5278 of the Revised Statutes 1of the United States; that
such being the law defendant's representatives were bound
to know it and to protect them, its passengers, from arrest,
unless all steps had been taken which would have justified
their rendition upon application of another State. But
these provisions of the Constitution and statutes have no
application here. They deal merely with the conditions
under which one State may demand rendition from another and the alleged fugitive may resist the latter's
complying with the demand. 2 Here no demand had been
made upon the executive of New York. Proceedings for
mand of the executive authority of the State from which he fled, be
delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the
crime."
'Rev. Stats., § 5278 (Act of February 12, 1793, § 1, 1 Stat. 302):
"Whenever the executive authority of any State or Territory demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of the executive authority
of any State or Territory to which such person has fled, and produces
a copy of an indictment found or an affidavit made before a magistrate
of any State or Territory, charging the person demanded with having
committed treason, felony, or other crime, certified as authentic by the
governor or chief magistrate of the State or Territory from whence the
person so charged has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive authority
of the State or Territory to which such person has fled to cause him to
be arrested and secured, and to cause notice of the arrest to be given
to the executive authority making such demand, or to the agent of such
authority appointed to receive the fugitive, and to cause the fugitive
to be delivered to such agent when he shall appear."
2 The provisions are so narrow in scope, that if the removal is actually
effected without the interposition of the State's executives-though it
be by kidnapping and breach of the peace-the federal law affords no
redress, and interposes no obstacle to the prosecution of the alleged
fugitive by the State which has by wrongful act acquired jurisdiction
over him. Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S.700; see also Cook v. Hart, 146
U. S. 183; Pettibone v. Nichols, 203 U. S.192; Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S.
436.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

rendition had not even been initiated. And there was no
attempt at removal from the State. The arrest, so far as
appears, was made by the New York police department
of its own initiative.
These provisions of the Constitution and federal statutes do not deal with arrest in advance of a requisition.
They do not limit the power of a State to arrest, within
its borders, a citizen of another State for a crime committed elsewhere; nor do they prescribe the manner in
which such arrest may be made. These are matters left
wholly to the individual States. Whether the asylum
State shall make an arrest in advance of requisition; and
if so, whether it may be made without a warrant, are
matters which each State decides for itself. Such has been
the uniform practice, sanctioned by a long line of decisions
and regulated by legislation in many of the States.1 The
alleged federal right which plaintiffs assert is not immunity
from arrest without a warrant; it is immunity from arrest
iThe decisions appear to be uniform that at common law arrest in
advance of requisition is legal. People v. Schenck, 2 Johns. 478 (1807);
Simmons v. Commonwealth, 5 Binney, 617 (1813); People v. Goodhue, 2
John Ch. 198 (1816); Commonwealth v. Deacon, 2 Wheeler Cr. Cases, 1,
17 (1823); State v. Anderson, 1 Hill, Law (S. C.), 327,350-8 (1833); State
v. Loper, 2 Ga. Dec. 33 (1842); State v. Buzinc, 4 Harr. (Del.) 572
(1846); In the Matter of Fetter,23 N. J. L. 311 (1852); Morrell v. Quarles,
35 Ala. 544 (1860); Ex parte Romanes, 1 Utah, 23 (1867); Simmons v.
Van Dyke, 138 Ind. 380 (1894); State v. Taylor, 70 Vt. 1, 4 (1896). But
some deny that it can be made without a warrant even in case of a
felony. Botts v. Williams, 17 B. Monr. 687 (1856). The right of arrest
and detention in advance of requisition is in many States regulated by
statute. Ex parte Rosenblat, 51 Cal. 285; Wells v. Johnston,52 La. Ann.
713; Ex parte Lorraine, 16 Nev. 63; State v. Shelton, 79 N. C. 605, 608;
Ex parte Ammons, 34 Oh. St. 518; State v. Whittle, 59 S. C. 297. See
Moore on Extraditions and Interstate Rendition, Appendix II. And
under the statutes of some States arrest cannot be made until after
proceedings charging the person have been had in the State where the
crime is alleged to have been committed. State v. Hufford, 28 Iowa,
391,395.

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
Counsel for Parties.

315.

until after requisition granted. The Constitution grants
no such immunity. To restrict the right of arrest as
claimed would rob interstate rendition of much of its
efficacy. As no federal right of plaintiffs was denied the
judgments must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 284.

Argued November 5, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

The filing of a certificate of arrival, as provided in § 4, subdivision 2,
of the Naturalization Act, is an essential prerequisite to a valid order
of naturalization.
The court of naturalization having assumed to dispense with this requirement upon proof of reasons why the certificate of arrival could
not be obtained, held, that the certificate of naturalization was subject to be set aside, in a suit by the United States under § 15 of the
act, as a certificate "illegally procured."
Sections 11 and 15 of the Naturalization Act afford cumulative protection against fraudulent or illegal naturalization. In a suit under the
latter to set aside a certificate granted in disregard of an essential
requirement of the statute, the United States is not estopped by the
order of naturalization, although, pursuant to the former section, it
entered its appearance in the naturalization proceedings and there
unsuccessfully raised the same objection.
230 Fed. Rep. 950, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Denis M. Kelleher, with whom Mr. B. J. Price was
on the brief, for respondent.

