KIRK v. OLSON.
217.

Syllabus.

Ohio St. 112. We see no reason why the State may not,
if it sees fit to do so, authorize a municipality to furnish
heat by such means as are necessary and such systems
as are proper for its distribution. Heat is as indispensable
to the health and comfort of the people as is light or water.
In any event we are not prepared to say that when a State
authorizes a municipality to tax with a view to providing
heat at cost to the inhabitants of the city, and that purpose is declared by the highest court of the State to be a
public one, the property of a citizen who is taxed to effect
such purpose is taken in violation of rights secured by the
Constitution of the United States. As this view decides
the questions open to consideration, it follows that the
judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine must
be affirmed.
Affirmed.

KIRK ET AL. v. OLSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.

No. 81.

Argued November 23, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

A finding of mineral character made in allowing an entry under the
placer mining law is subject to be reconsidered and reversed by the
Land Department at any time before the patent issues, upon due
notice to the parties interested.
Where land embraced in conflicting placer and homestead entries is
found, upon hearing in the Land Department, to be non-mineral and
therefore is patented to the homesteader, the finding does not conclude a claimant under the placer entry who was not notified and
given opportunity to be heard; a trust might be declared in his favor
if he proved the land mineral; but not when the evidence confirms
the Department's finding.
35 S. Dak. 620, affirmed.

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

THE

245 U. S.

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William G. Porter, Mr. Ed. L. Grantham and Mr.
C. C. Croal for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. Clifford A. Wilson
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a suit to quiet the title to a small tract of land
in South Dakota which had been the subject of conflicting claims under the public land laws. One claim was
made under the placer mining law and the other under
the homestead law. Both claims embraced other lands,
the tract in question being all that was common to both.
It"was subject to disposal under the placer mining law
if valuable for placer mining, and under the homestead
law I if valuable only for agriculture. Whether it was
valuable for the one purpose or the other was a question
of fact to be determined by the officers of the Land Department. The claim under the placer mining law was
first brought to the attention of those officers and, upon
ex parte proofs presented in support of that claim, they
found the tract to be valuable for placer mining and permitted it to be included in a placer entry. The homestead claim was next brought to their attention and,
upon ex parte proofs presented in support of that claim,
they found the tract to be valuable only for agriculture
and permitted it to be included in a homestead entry.
Thus the findings upon the ex parte proofs were inconI The tract was in the Black Hills Forest Reserve and, if agricultural
land, was brought within the operation of the homestead law by the
Acts of March 3, 1899, c. 424, 30 Stat. 1095, and April 15, 1902, c.
507, 32 Stat. 106.

KIRE v. OLSON.
225.

Opinion of the Court.

sistent and the tract was included in conflicting entries.
This was discovered before either entry was passed to
patent, and so a hearing was ordered to determine the
true character of the land. The placer entry had been
made by two brothers and through some inadvertence
one of these was not notified of the hearing. The other
brother and the homestead entryman appeared and the
hearing proceeded as if all parties in interest were present;
that is to say, there was no reference to the absence of
the placer claimant not notified. Upon the proofs produced at this hearing the land officers found the tract to
have no value for placer mining and to be valuable only
for agriculture, and as a result of the finding the tract
was eliminated from the placer entry and the homestead
entry was passed to patent. The patentee afterward
sold and transferred the tract to the plaintiff, who knew
that a right to it was still being asserted under the placer
entry.
By their answer, which was in the nature of a cross bill,
the defendants, who were the placer claimants, asserted
that they had located and were entitled to the mining
claim before mentioned, that the tract in question was
lawfully included in that claim and was valuable for placer
mining, that the entry of the claim at the land office
was lawful and entitled them to a patent, and that the
subsequent elimination of the tract from that entry was
unlawful and violative of their rights, because the earlier
finding that the tract was valuable for placer mining was
conclusive upon that point, and, if not conclusive, could
not be recalled or disturbed except upon due notice to both
placer claimants and after giving them a reasonable opportunity to sustain their entry by evidence and otherwise. The right of the homestead claimant to have the
tract patented to him was questioned on other grounds,
but these need not be noticed, for they plainly were such
as could not be urged by the defendants. The answer con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

cluded with a prayer that the plaintiff be decreed to hold
the title to the tract in trust for the defendants and compelled to convey the same to them.
At the trial the evidence bearing upon the character of
the tract disclosed, without any contradiction, that it
had no value for placer mining, but was strictly agricultural land, and that its only use by the placer claimants
had been for farming purposes.
The plaintiff was given a decree, which was affirmed,
35 S. Dak. 620, and the defendants seek a review here.
A statement of the case leaves little to be said, for the
pertinent rules of decision are well settled and easily
applied.
The original finding respecting the character of the tract
was not in itself final or conclusive, but essentially interlocutory. It was only a step in the proceedings looking
to the ultimate disposal of the title, and, until the issue
of a patent, was 'as much open to reconsideration and reversal as are the interlocutory orders or decrees of a court
of equity until the entry of a final decree. New Orleans v.
Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 266; Michigan Land and Lumber Co.
v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592 et seq.; Hawley v. Diller, 178
U. S. 476, 488. In the last case this court said: "The Land
Department has authority, at any time before a patent
is issued, to inquire whether the original entry was in
conformity with the act of Congress."
Without any doubt both placer claimants were entitled
to notice of the intended reconsideration of the character of the tract and to an opportunity to sustain the
original finding by evidence and otherwise. Parsons v.
Venzke, 164 U. S. 89, 91, and cases supra. One was not
notified and so was not accorded the opportunity to
which he was entitled. This irregularity prevented the
ultimate finding, upon which the homestead patent rested,
from being conclusive of the character of the tract, as
against him. Thayer v. Spratt, 189 U. S. 346, 351. He,

HITCHMAN COAL & COKE CO. v. MITCHELL,
225.

229

Syllabus.

therefore, was entitled in this suit to assert and show, if
such was the fact, that the tract was valuable for placer
mining, as originally found by the land officers; and had
he shown that this was its real character, he would have
been entitled to a decree charging the title with an appropriate trust for his benefit. Guaranty Savings Bank v.
Bladow, 176 U. S. 448, 453, 454; Thayer v. Spratt, supra.
But no such showing was made at the trial. On the contrary, the evidence established that the tract was strictly
agricultural, and therefore not subject to entry or acquisition under the placer mining law. Thus it appears
that the irregularity complained of was not prejudicial
and did not result in the issue of a patent to one when it
should have gone to another. See Bohall v. Dilla, 114 U.
S. 47; Sparks v. Pierce, 115 U. S. 408; Johnson v. Riddle,
240 U. S. 467, 481.
Judgment affirmed.

HITCHMAN COAL & COKE COMPANY v.
MITCHELL, INDIVIDUALLY, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 11. Argued March 2, 3, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
March 13, 1916; reargued December 15, 18, 1916.-Decided December 10, 1917.

The District Court has no power to decree an injunction against parties
who were not served with process and who appeared only to object
to the jurisdiction over them.

