GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. OTIS ELEVATOR CO. 489
Syllabus.

484.

could have been secured by having an extra train ready
to run if the regular one was not on time hardly is practical, and is not an adequate answer, even in form. For
the defendant advertised, or at least had the right to advertise, the interstate train, and, if it did so, would not
free itself from liability for a delay on the part of that
train by offering another. We think it plain that this
order was applied in a way that was beyond the power
of the Commission and courts of the State. Seaboard Air
Line Ry. v. Blackwell, 244 U. S.310. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin, 237 U. S.220, 226. South Covington & Cincinnati
Street Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S.537, 548.
Judgment reversed.

GEORGE A. FULLER COMPANY v. OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 128.

Argued January.3, 1918.-Decided January 14, 1918.

Petitioner, having paid the judgment affirmed in George A. Fuller Co. v.
McCloskey, 228 U. S. 194, recovered indemnity from the respondent,
upon the ground that the latter, at the time of the accident, retained
its control over the negligent servant. Held, that, there being suffi-

cient evidence upon that point to warrant the verdict, petitioner's
judgment should be affirmed. Held further, that the adjudication in

the former case did not estop the petitioner upon the issue of primary
responsibility here presented, as it did not determine or involve that
issue, and respondent had been dismissed from that case as codefendant before petitioner's evidence therein was heard; and, further, that such adjudication, had it purported to include that issue,
would not have the force of a precedent, since in the present case
there was evidence, absent in the other, which makes it impossible

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

to say as a matter of law that respondent did not retain control of
the servant.
The writ of certiorari, when issued to the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, is not limited to cases in which final judgment
has been entered, but only to cases in which the judgment when
entered is final. Jud. Code, ยง 251. So held where the judgment of
the Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District.
44 App. D. C. 287, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Duvall, Jr., for petitioner.
Mr. John S. Flannery and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit brought by the petitioner to recover indemnity for a judgment that it had to pay in pursuance
of the decision of this court in George A. Fuller Co. v. McCloskey, 228 U. S. 194. McCloskey, the plaintiff in the
former suit, was injured upon an elevator through the
negligence of Locke, the man in charge of it. He was at
work for the Mackay Company, which was doing some
painting under a subcontract with the defendant, the
present petitioner, which, it was held, as between the
parties then concerned, made the defendant answerable
for Locke. The petitioner had constructed an office
building under an agreement with the owner, Hibbs.
The Otis Elevator Company had put in the elevators,
also under an agreement with Hibbs, and furnished
the man Locke upon a somewhat vague understanding with the petitioner, which, the latter contends, left
Locke the servant of the Elevator Company as between
the parties now before this court. If the petitioner is

GEO. A. FULLER CO. v. OTIS ELEVATOR CO.
489.

491

Opinion of the Court.

right and the primary duty rested on the Elevator Company it may recover in the present suit, unless the former
proceedings constitute a bar. Washington Gas Light Co.
v. District of Columbia, 161 U. S. 316, 328.
There was evidence fully sufficient to show that the
respondent retained its control at the time of the accident, and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff,
but the judgment was set aside by the Court of Appeals on the ground that although the former judgment
did not make the matter res judicata it concluded the
case: "In view of the adjudicated facts, which were not
open to the consideration of a second jury, there was no
such primary liability on the part of the Otis Company
as will support an action for indemnity." But there were
no facts, whether adjudicated in the former case or not,
that were not open to the consideration of the jury in
this. The Otis Company was joined as a party defendant, it is true, in the former action, and a verdict was directed in its favor. But even if the former verdict against
the petitioner had gone on the same issue that was tried
in the present case, which was not the fact, it could not
have concluded the petitioner in favor of the Otis Company, for the reason, if for no other, that the Otis Company was dismissed from the suit before the petitioner's
evidence was heard.
The former judgment did not decide that the evidence
in the present case showed as matter of law that Locke,
who was in the general service of the Otis Company, was
transferred for the moment to the petitioner. It did decide as matter of law that as between the Mackay Company and the petitioner their agreement left the petitioner
responsible. It had no occasion to decide and did not
purport to decide more. Even if it had gone farther it
would have been res inter alios as an adjudication and it
would not have been a precedent because the evidence in
.the present cas6 had additional details which, if meagre,

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

still made it impossible to say as matter of law that the
Otis Company did not retain control.
It is objected to the writ of certiorari in this case that
there was no final judgment; but the writ when issued to
the Court of Appeals is not limited to cases in which final
judgment has been 'entered, but only to cases in which
the judgment when entered is final. Judicial Code, ยง 251.
The words "with the same power and authority in the
case as if it had been carried by writ of error or appeal to
said Supreme Court" express the character of the power,
not its conditions, as the power is granted only when a
writ of error or appeal does not lie. See Judicial Code,
ยง 240. Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 133.
The decision in Bruce v. Tobin, 245 U. S. 18, cited for the
respondent, is concerned with the Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, ยง 2, 39 Stat. 726, which requires a final judgment in terms.
Judgment reversed.
Judgment of Supreme Court affirmed.

