SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
Syllabus.

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 337. Argued October 2, 3, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.
The Senate, by resolution, directed the Interstate Commerce Commission to investigate, take proof and report to it, among other
things, what amount, if any, certain railroad companies, or any of
them, had subscribed, expended or contributed to prevent other
railroads from entering any of their territory, for maintaining
political or legislative agents, for contributing to political campaigns,
or for creating sentiment in favor of any of the plans of any of the
railroads. In pursuance of this resolution, the Commission ordered
an investigation, which was consolidated with another, arising
from a complaint "made by an individual and limited to the alleged
improper issuance of free passes. At the hearing the president of
one of the companies, subpoenaed as a witness, was asked by the

counsel for the Commission what, if any, funds his company expended, in certain States, in certain years, for political campaign
purposes, and charged upon its books to operating or legal expenses
or construction account; also to explain certain vouchers, showing
expenditures by the company but not the purpose, also whether
the company expended funds in a certain State "in a campaign
against rate reductions," and whether it was the company's policy
to make political compaign contributions. The witness having refused to answer, upon advice of counsel, the court below, upon
the petition of the Commission, ordered him to do so.
Held: (1) That the investigation, particularly as related to and defined by the questions asked, was not to be regarded as directed
to the political activities of the carrier or to its efforts to suppress
competition, but as seeking to ascertain the amounts of expenditures made by the carrier, their allocation, and the manner in which
they were charged upon its books.
(2) That such an investigation was within the competency of the Commission and the questions proper, in view of the general purposes
and objects of the Act to Regulate Commerce, the regulatory power
of the Commission in relation thereto, and the particular authority and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

means given to enable it to perform its duty-viz: Authority under
§ 12 to inquire into the management of the business of carriers,
keep itself informed as to the manner and method in which the same
is being conducted, and to obtain from carriers full and complete
information; under § 13, to institute inquiries of its own motion;
under § 20, to require detailed accounts of the expenditures and
revenues of carriers and exhibits of their financial operations;and that the questions were pertinent to the duty of the Commission under § 21 to report information collected by it to Congress.
Under § 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the Act
of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 550, § 11, the Commission's power
of investigation is not necessarily confined to cases in which evils or
abuses are definitely charged, and remedies are proposed, in words,
either by the Commission or by parties complaining before it; nor,
semble, is its right of inquiry in a particular proceeding necessarily
to be measured by the scope of the proceeding as defined by the order
instituting it.
44 W. L. Rep. 626, affirmed.

Petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission to
require the attendance before it of appellant, president
of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, an interstate carrier, to answer certain questions theretofore asked
him in a proceeding then pending before the Commission.
The petition described the Commission as an administrative tribunal and recited the powers conferred upon it
by §§ 1, 15, 12, 13, 20 and 21 of the Act of Congress to

Regulate Commerce, approved February 4, 1887, as
subsequently amended.
That by a resolution of the United States Senate of
November 6, 1913, the Commission was directed to investigate, take proof and report to the Senate as soon as

practicable upon certain practices and financial relations
of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad, the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway and other carriers. The
resolution was set out. Its twelfth paragraph is as follows:
"What amount, if any, the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad, the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway, the Nashville and Decatur Railroad, and the Lewis-

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Statement of the Case.

burg and Northern Railroad, all or any of them, have
subscribed, expended or contributed for the purpose of
preventing other railroads from entering any of the territory served by any of these railroads, for maintaining
political or legislative agents, for contributing to political
campaigns, for creating sentiment in favor of any of the
plans of any of said railroads."
The other paragraphs concern the relation of the railroads to one another, the control, if any, exercised by the
Louisville & Nashville over the others, by stock ownership,
leases or arrangements, and whether but for these the
roads would be competitive and if through such means
rates were fixed and maintained. The resolution is set
out in full in United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 236 U. S. 318, 324.
That thereafter the Commission instituted a proceeding
in pursuance of such resolution and it was ordered that
the proceeding be set for hearing at such times and places
and that such persons be required to appear and testify
or to produce books, documents and papers as the Commission might thereafter direct; and that the investigation be carried on in the meantime by such other means
and methods as might be deemed appropriate. A copy of
the order was served on the Louisville & Nashville and
other railroads.
That subsequently, on March 20, 1916, the order of
the Commission was amended by adding to the order the
provision that after the hearings and investigations
authorized the Commission might issue such order or
orders in the matter as might be proper and necessary in
the premises and that Case No. 8488, Luke Lea v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company et al., be consolidated
for hearing with the proceeding upon one record at such
times and places as the Commission might direct. Copies
of the order and original order were served on the railroads.
That pursuant to such orders a meeting was had April

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

27, 1916, and pursuant to adjournment resumed in the
City of Washington May 4, 1916. At such hearings
appellant appeared in response to a subpcena and certain
questions were addressed to him.
He testified that there was no connection between
the reckless dissipation of the funds of a railroad in political campaigns and the adjustment of reasonable rates,
even if the contribution was of the sum of $500,000 or
$20,000,000, as the adjustment of rates is governed by
conditions entirely independent of the revenues of a
railroad. In illustration he adduced the adjustment of
rates of bankrupt roads operated by receivers of courts
which he testified are handled in the same way and arrived
at in the same manner as they are by solvent roads.
The following questions were then asked him by counsel
for the Commission, omitting those not now relevant.
We number them for convenience of reference:
1. "I will ask you, Mr. Smith, if you know of any funds
of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad expended in Tennessee for political campaign purposes during the year
1915 and charged upon the books of that carrier to operating expenses.
2. "Can you tell us what funds of the Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Company were expended in the State
of Alabama during the years 1912 and 1913 for political
campaign purposes and charged on the books of that
carrier to operating expenses or to construction account?
3. "Can you tell us of your own knowledge whether
these expenditures of the funds of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company for political purposes were charged
in the operating expense account or construction account
of either the Louisville & Nashville Railroad or the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway? Can you tell
us whether these expenditures were charged on the books
of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad to legal expenses?

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Statement of the Case.

4. "Among the vouchers in the files of the Louisville &
Nashville Railroad, found by the examiners of the Interstate Commerce Commission, there appears one, No.
2282, February, 1910, in favor of the Columbia Trust
Company for $20,715.06 for special fees paid under the
direction of the president. The examiners were refused
all information regarding this voucher. Can you tell us
what it was about and what the voucher was for?
5. "Can you tell us why the entry in reference to this
$20,000 voucher was made in such a way as to give no
information as to the purpose of this expenditure?
6. "Among the vouchers, found by the accountants
for the Commission in the files of the Lousiville & Nashville Railroad, appears one numbered 391, dated May 5,
1907, in favor of the National Bank of Commerce, for
$15,000 issued for certain expenditures authorized by the
president. All further information was refused the accountants. The books give no further information. Can
you advise us or enlighten us as to the purposes of this
$15,000 voucher?
7. "Did the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company,
through you or by your direction, expend approximately
$34,800 in Alabama through the Johnson-Dallas Agency
in a campaign against rate reductions as advocated by
former Governor Coiner, of that State?
8. "Have you personal knowledge of any funds of the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company expended in
Alabama through the Johnson-Dallas Agency in a campaign against rate reductions?
9. "Is it the policy of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company to make political campaign contributions,
if you know?"
All of the questions the witness declined to answer upon
the advice of counsel.
The answer of appellant to the petition challenged in
general and in detail the power of the Commission and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

urged that the Commission is entirely a ministerial tribunal, having only the powers given it by act of Congress,
and that those, with few exceptions, are confined to the
enforcement of the act, and that the latter as amended
"does not attempt to regulate the politics or the political activities of common carriers, nor the subject of
their endeavoring to exclude competitors from their
territories."
That the object of the questions asked by the Commission "was to delve into questions purely political"
and to ascertain whether the witness or the company believed that a railroad company had a right to engage in
political campaigns and to make political contributions
and whether it had been the policy of the company to make
contributions of funds to such campaigns and whether
the company had in the past engaged in such practices.
It is asserted that all such matters are outside of the
jurisdiction of the Commission.
That the proceeding is a consolidation of two proceedings, Nos. 6319 and 8488, that Luke Lea is the open and
sole complainant in the latter and the instigator and real
complainant in the other, which was instituted by the
Commission without there being a nominal complainant,
but pursuant to a resolution of the United States Senate
introduced by Lea, then a member of the Senate and the
complainant in No. 8488, which is confined to an alleged
improper issue of free passes.
Certain activities of Lea are stated and certain resentments and motives of his are urged as having actuated
him and a want of power upon the part of the Commission
is repeated and the refusal to answer the questions hence
asserted to be justified.
The Commission moved to strike out certain portions
of the answer, which was denied.
The court required appellant to answer the questions,
and from its order this appeal is prosecuted.

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Helm Bruce and Mr. Edward S. Jouett, with whom
Mr. Henry L. Stone was on the brief, for appellant:
A witness may lawfully refuse to answer if the testimony
called for does not relate to the matter under investigation
or if the matter broached by the Commission is one which
it is not legally entitled to investigate. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447. The subject of
an investigation is defined by the order of the Commission instituting the investigation. Every investigation
which the Commission makes is not as broad as its power
to investigate. The matter here under investigation according to the Commission's order was the matter "directed" to be investigated by the Senate Resolution. The
language of the order is too plain for doubt. Nothing
outside of the "several matters and things set forth and
referred to in the said resolution" is ordered to be investigated. See Solicitor General's brief in United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 318. And the
case is confined to the twelfth paragraph of the resolution,
the witness not having refused answers concerning other
subjects. This paragraph relates exclusively to expenditures for political purposes and for suppressing competition. Neither the question of reasonable rates nor any
direction or supervision of the manner of keeping accounts
of expenditures was being investigated by the Commission.
The questions as to amounts expended on political activities and suppression of competition were simply asked as a
measure of the extent of the company's activities in those
ways. Even if the investigation had concerned the reasonableness of rates, expenditures would not have become
material unless the company had claimed that its rates
could not be lowered without making its receipts less than
cost, and if that claim had been made it would have been
idle to investigate merely expenditures upon political activities-necessarily slight as compared with all expenditures.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

245 U. S.

The subject of political activity is not one which the
Commission is "legally entitled to investigate." Nor is
what a carrier may do to mould public opinion. The Commission's powers are confined to administering the Act
to Regulate Commerce, and these subjects are not covered
by that act. The Commission repeatedly has said that
its powers are limited to enforcing the act. 2d Annual
Report, p. 21; 13th Annual Report, p. 11; 14th Annual
Report, p. 10; Traders & Travellers Union v. Philadelphia R. &c. Co., 1 I. C. C. 371, 374; New York Produce Exchange v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 7 I. C. C. 612,
658; Spring v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 8 I. C. C. 443,
456; Haines v. Chicago, Rock Island R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C.
214, 216. See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 221.
Neither does the act relate to the matter of suppressing
competition. This is left to the Anti-Trust Act. Spring
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., supra; United States v.
Joint-Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505, 565. The only
possible exception is the fifth section of the former act
forbidding pooling and division of earnings-a subject
which the Commission's order in no way involves. The
amendment of § 13 by the Act of June 18, 1910, does not
change the principle settled by the Brimson Case, supra.
Whatever may be the Commission's power of investigation, when the subject as limited and defined by its order
is not "one which the Commission is legally entitled to
investigate," then no question relating to it can properly
be asked. The amendment confines the power strictly
to matters covered by the Commerce Act. Such are its
words. It does not empower the Commission to inquire
into everything pertaining to commerce. Whether the
language of the amendment, "concerning which any
question which may arise under any of the provisions of
this act," refers to questions which have arisen before investigation or questions which may possibly arise in the

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Opinion of the Court.

future, is not material in this case where the Commission
chose to limit the investigation by the language of its
order. But these words of the amendment are not susceptible of the broader meaning. The granting of "such
autocratic power" would require "explicit and unmistakable words." Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407. Although the amendment was passed
after the decision in the Harriman Case, Congress did not
use the "explicit and unmistakable words" and could not,
therefore, have intended to make such a grant. A question may not be said to have arisen merely because it is
asked by the counsel for the Commission in the examination of a witness, where the question does not relate to
the subject of investigation fixed by the order. The questions concerning expenditures in political campaigns in
Tennessee and in Alabama manifestly related to political
activities merely, and were clearly beyond the Commission's power to investigate.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The fundamental contention of appellant is that the
Interstate Commerce Commission has no power to ask
the questions in controversy and in emphasis of this he
asserts "the inquiry was confined exclusively to supposed
political activities and efforts to suppress competition."
And these, it is further asserted, "are not matters which
the Commission 'is legally entitled to investigate."' The
contention is attempted to be supported by the insistence
that the investigation was provoked and prosecuted solely
in obedience to the Senate resolution and neither in exercise of the judgment of the Commission nor in pursuance
of a complaint made to it. And the twelfth paragraph of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

the resolution is dwelt upon as directing and controlling
the inquiry as to what amount, if any, the railroads "have
subscribed, expended or contributed for the purpose of
preventing other railroads from entering any of the territory served by any of these railroads, for maintaining
political or legislative agents, for contributing to political
campaigns, for creating sentiment in favor of any of the
plans of any of said railroads."
If, however, we advert to the questions we observe
that the matters dwelt on by appellant are incidents only,
having the purpose, it may be, in one sense to ascertain,
the "amount, if any," subscribed or expended, but not
having the purpose in the sense of the questions, which is:
Whether the amount subscribed or expended was charged
to operating or legal expenses. The latter purpose is more
special than the other, and, we may say in passing, does
not necessarily involve even a criticism of the other, involves only the display in the accounts of the carriers of
the amount expended and its allocation. To this limitation the investigation is reduced, and the question is,
being so reduced, Is it within the powers of the Commission?
The interstate Commerce Act confers upon the Commission powers of investigation in very broad language and
this court has refused by construction to limit it so far
as the business of the carriers is concerned and their relation to the public.' And it would seem to be a necessary
deduction from the cases that the investigating and supervising powers of the Commission extend to all of the activities of carriers and to all sums expended by them which
could affect in any way their benefit or burden as agents
IWilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Baird,194 U. S. 25; InterstateCommerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194; United States v. White Star Line, 224 U. S. 194;
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; InterstateCommerce Commission v. Chicago,

R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88.

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Opinion of the Court.

of the public. If it be grasped thoroughly and' kept in
attention that they are public agents, we have at least
the principle which should determine judgment in particular instances of regulation or investigation; and it is not
far from true-it may be it is entirely true, as said by the
Commission-that "there can be nothing private or
confidential in the activities and expenditures of a carrier
engaged in interstate commerce."
Turning to the specialties of the Interstate Commerce
Act we find there that all charges and treatment of all
passengers and property shall be just and reasonable, and
there is a specific prohibition of preferences and discriminations in all the ways that they can be executed, with
corresponding regulatory power in the Commission. And
authority and means are given to enable it to perform its
duty. By § 12 it is authorized to inquire into the management of the business of carriers and keep itself informed
as to the manner and method in which the same is conducted, and has the right to obtain from the carriers full
and complete information. It may (§ 13) institute an
inquiry of its own motion, and may (§ 20) require detailed
accounts of all the expenditures and revenues of carriers
and a complete exhibit of their financial operations and
prescribe the forms of accounts, records and memoranda
to be kept. And it is required to report to Congress all
data collected by it.
It would seem to be an idle work to point out the complete comprehensiveness of the language of these sections
and we are not disposed to spend any time to argue that
it necessarily includes the power to inquire into expenditures and their proper assignment in the accounts, and
the questions under review, we have seen, go no farther.
They are incidental to an investigation as to the "manner
and method" (§ 12) in which the business of the carriers
is conducted; they are in requisition of a detailed account
of their expenditures and revenues and an exhibit of their

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

financial operations (§ 20), and the answers to them may
be valuable as information to Congress (§ 21).
A limitation, however, is deduced from § 13. It is
said to be confined to cases where an inquiry is instituted
"as to any matter or thing concerning which a Complaint
is authorized to be made, . . . or concerning which
any question may arise under any of the provisions" of
the act "or relating to the enforcement of any of the provisions" of the act. In other words, that the inquiry is
determined by the manner of procedure. The objection
overlooks the practical and vigilant function of the Commission. To sustain it appellant seems to urge that there
must be put into words by some complainant or by the
Commission, if it move of itself, some definite charge of
evil or abuse, and put into expression some definite remedy; and that an inquiry must not transcend either charge
or remedy. To so transcend, appellant urges, would be
an exercise of autocratic power and is condemned in Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407.
Appellant presses that case beyond its principle. And
we may observe that § 13 has been amended and broadened since the decision of that case.' The inquiry in the
present case is more immediate to the function of the
I Prior to the decision § 13 read as follows: "Said Commission shall
in like manner investigate any complaint forwarded by the railroad
commissioner or railroad commission of any State or Territory, at
the request of such commissioner or commission, and may institute
any inquiry on its own motion in the same manner and to the same effect as though complaint had been made."
After the decision the section was amended to read as follows:
. . "and the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have full
authority and power at any time to institute an inquiry, on its own
motion, in any case and as to any matter or thing concerning which a
complaint is authorized to be made, to or before said commission by
any provision of this Act, or concerning which any question may arise
under any of the provisions of this Act, or relating to the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this Act."

SMITH v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
33.

Opinion of the Court.

Commission than the inquiry in that and comes within
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac.
Ry., supra, where it was said, at p. 103: "The outlook
of the Commission and its powers must be greater than
the interest of the railroads or of that which may affect
those interests. It must be as comprehensive as the interest of the whole country. If the problems which are presented to it therefore are complex and difficult, the means
of solving them are as great and adequate as can be provided." And they must necessarily be expressed in generalities. A precise specification of powers might work a
limitation and all not enumerated be asserted to be withheld.
We find it difficult to treat counsel's argument as seriously as they urge it. The expenditures of the carriers
essentially concern their business. Section 20 declares
it and gives the Commission power to require a detail of
them, and necessarily not only of their amount but purpose and how charged. And the Commission must have
power to prevent evasion of its orders and detect in any
formal compliance or in the assignment of expenses a
"possible concealment of forbidden practices."
It may be said that our comments are not applicable
to questions numbered 7 and 8, which relate to the expenditure of money in Alabama "in a campaign against
rate reductions." That is, those questions are not directed
to "political activities" strictly so called, nor to the suppression of competition. They are directed, however, to
the use of funds in a campaign against state legislative
action. But this, appellant asserts, is at the farthest an
attempt to "influence legislation or to mould public
opinion" and that there is nothing in the Interstate
Commerce Act "which forbids it or gives to the Commission any power to investigate the subject." And it is
besides urged, as it is urged against the other questions,
that they do not relate to "the subject under investiga-

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

tion," which is strictly defined by the Senate resolution,
to which, it is contended, the order of the Commission was
responsive and subservient, and was to be and is confined
to the efforts simply" of the railroad companies in political
matters and in attempts to suppress competition." Indeed, the servility of the Commission to the Senate's
resolution is the basic and insistent contention of appellant and taints, he further contends, all that the Commission did.
The contention ascribes too much dominance to the
resolution and puts out of view or unduly subordinates
the invocation of the powers of the Commission by the
complaint of Lea and the interval of two years between
it and the resolution, and puts out of view besides the
independent and inherent powers of the Commission to
which we have adverted.
Abstractly speaking, we are not disposed to say that a
carrier may not attempt to mould or enlighten public
opinion, but we are quite clear that its conduct and the
expenditures of its funds are open to inquiry. If it may
not rest inactive and suffer injustice, it may not on the
other hand use its funds and its power in opposition to
the policies of government. Beyond this generality it is
not necessary to go. The questions in the case are not
of broad extent. They are quite special, and we regard
them, as the learned judge of the court below regarded
them, as but incident to the amount of expenditures and
to the manner of their charge upon the books of the companies. This, we repeat, is within the power of the Commission. The purpose of an investigation is the penetration of disguises or to form a definite estimate of any
conduct of the carriers that may in any way affect their
relation to the public. We cannot assume that an investigation will be instituted or conducted for any other purpose or in mere wanton meddling.
Order affirmed.

