OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

SWEET ET AL. v. SCHOCK, TREASURER OF OKMULGEE COUNTY, STATE OF OKLAHOMA,
ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

OKLAHOMA.

No. 52. Argued November 15, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.
Under the Act of April 26, 1906, § 19, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, and the Act
of May 27, 1908, § 4, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, providing that allotments
in the Five Civilized Tribes from which restrictions on alienation
have been removed shall be subject to taxation, land allotted to a
Creek Freedwoman as a homestead under the Act of June 30, 1902,
c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500, lost its tax exemption when the restrictions
were removed by the Secretary of the Interior upon the petition of
the allottee under the townsite provision of the Act of March 3,
1903, c. 994, 32 Stat. 996. Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, distinguished.
45 Oklahoma, 51, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis W. Clements, with whom Mr. Herbert E.
Smith, Mr. Wellington Lee Merwine, Mr. John L. Newhouse, Mr. Grant Foreman and Mr. James D. Simms were

on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Smith C. Matson and Mr. R. E.

Wood, Assistant Attorneys General of the State of Oklahoma, and Mr. R. E. Simpson were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma sustaining the taxation of lands which were

SWEET v. SCHOCK.
192.

Opinion of the Court.

allotted to a Creek freedwoman under § 16 of the Allotment Act. 32 Stat. 500, c. 1323.
The suit was instituted by plaintiffs in error in the
District Court of Okmulgee County to enjoin defendant
in error, as treasurer of the county, from selling the lands
and placing a penalty thereon or taking any steps towards
collecting the taxes.
Plaintiffs in error are the owners of certain lots in the
City of Okmulgee, Oklahoma, deriving title to the same
through mesne conveyance from Sarah Smith, a freedwoman and citizen of the Creek Nation, to whom the
lands had been patented as a homestead.
A certain part of the lands was conveyed by Sarah
Smith to one Nathan Boyd and was by him surveyed,
platted and laid out in blocks, lots and streets as the Capitol Heights Addition to the City of Okmulgee, and it is
now a part of that city.
The remaining portion of the homestead land Sarah
Smith also caused to be surveyed, laid out and platted in
lots, blocks and streets as the Capitol Heights Second
Addition to the City of Okmulgee.
The county board of commissioners placed the lots
upon the tax duplicates of the county and refused to
remove them therefrom upon petition of plaintiffs in
error, who thereupon commenced this suit. Decree was
entered for plaintiffs in error, which was reversed by the
Supreme Court of the State.
The land allotted to Sarah Smith and laid out in
lots
as described was allotted to her by deed executed April 23,
1904, under the Acts of Congress of March 1, 1901, and
June 30, 1902. 31 Stat. 861; 32 Stat. 500.
By the former act it was provided that the land should
"be non-taxable and inalienable and free from any incumbrance whatever for twenty-one years." By the latter
act it was provided, in amendment of the other act, that
the land should "be and remain non-taxable, inalienable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

and free from any incumbrance whatever for twenty-one
years from the date of the deed therefor."
Both acts provided for the laying out of townsites under
certain circumstances, and by the Indian Appropriation
Act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 996, it was enacted "that
nothing herein contained shall prevent the survey and
platting, at their own expense, of townsites by private
parties where stations are located along the lines of railroads, nor the unrestricted alienation of lands for such
purposes, when recommended by the Commission to the
Five Civilized Tribes and approved by the Secretary
of the Interior."
Sarah Smith availed herself of these provisions, that
is, she petitioned the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes for the removal of the restrictions against alienation for the purpose of permitting her to sell part of the
land for townsite purposes. The Commission, after investigation, made a report to the Secretary of the Interior,
recommending the removal of the restrictions. The
Indian Office concurred in the recommendation and
granted the petition and authorized her to sell the land.
Thereupon (February 28, 1907) she conveyed 1.69 acres
of the land by warranty deed to one Nathan Boyd, as
has been said, who platted the land deeded to him in town
lots, and Sarah Smith, after July 26, 1908, so platted the
remainder of the land, and plaintiffs in error derive title
from her and him.
The contentions of the parties are quite accurately
opposed and are in short compass. Plaintiffs in error
contend that when the land was allotted to Sarah Smith
non-taxability was given it by a valid act of Congress and
accompanied the land to her grantees, and this in consideration of the surrender by her of the rights she had in
common with other members of the Creek Tribe to the
tribal lands. The opposing contention is that she devested
the land of non-taxability by petitioning for and accepting

SWEET v. SCHOCK.
192.

Opinion of the Court.

a right to alienate it. A determination between the contentions depends upon certain acts of Congress in addition
to those we have mentioned, and their consideration and
construction therefore become necessary.
The deed allotting the land to Sarah Smith, as we have
seen, provided, in accordance with the act of Congress
under which it was executed, that it should "be nontaxable and inalienable . . . for twenty-one years."
It will be observed that the right (non-taxability), and
the restriction (inalienability) were concomitants and
necessarily they concerned alone the Indian, benefited
her to the extent of the right, protected her by the extent
of the restriction.
Accommodation to new conditions became necessary,
and Congress, by an act passed March 3, 1903, hereinabove quoted, provided for the survey and platting of
townsites out of allotted lands, when recommended by
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes and approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, and permitted the "unrestricted alienation of lands for such purposes." A consequence of the exercise of the privilege so given was
imposed by certain acts of Congress-(1) That of April 26,
1906, 34 Stat. 137, § 19 of which provides as follows:
"That all lands upon which restrictions are removed
shall be subject to taxation, and the other lands shall be
exempt from taxation as long as the title remains in the
original allottee." (2) That of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312,
§ 4 of which reads as follows: "That all land from which
restrictions have been or shall be removed shall be subject
to taxation and all other civil burdens as though it were
the property of other persons than aliottees of the Five
Civilized Tribes;
"
It was after the passage of the Act of April 26, 1906,
that Sarah Smith petitioned for the removal of the restrictions upon her homestead, that is, its alienation for
townsite purposes, and conveyed to Boyd; and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

after the passage of the Act of May 27, 1908, that she
platted the land as stated. She and her grantees must,
therefore, be deemed to have accepted the consequences
of her acts, to-wit, that the land thereafter should be
subject to taxation. And this is not taking from her
or them a vested right; it is simply enforcing against her
and them the results of a bargain, and, it may be presumed, a beneficial bargain.
. The contention of plaintiffs in error overlooks the fact
that the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes and the
Secretary of the Interior are instruments of the Government, delegated, it is true, to extend a privilege, but
bound, in extending it, by the laws of the United States;
that is, that they in granting it and Sarah Smith in accepting it did so under the conditions imposed by those
laws; and Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, is not opposed.
In that case it was decided that an Indian of one of the
Five Civilized Tribes had an equitable interest in tribal
lands which when given up constituted a consideration
for his allotment and its exemption from taxation, and a
law of the State of Oklahoma taxing the allotment while
in possession of the Indians was declared invalid.
The acts of Congress, confirming previous agreements,
provided that the lands allotted should be non-taxable
while the title remained in the original allottee and provided for alienation within certain periods. The State argued nevertheless that there was in fact no tax exemption
but that the provision for it was but an additional prohibition against a forced sale,' and that when restrictions
against alienation were removed by the Act of Congress
of 1908 (35 Stat. 312) the provision for tax exemption
went as a necessary part thereof. The contention was
rejected, and rightly so, and, as was aptly said by Mr.
'Section 16 of the Allotment Act (32 Stat. 500) contains a prohibition of any incumbrance or sale of allotted lands in satisfaction of
any debt or obligation of the allottee.

SWEET v. SCHOCK.
192.

Opinion of the Court.

Justice Lamar, speaking for the court: "The exemption
and non-alienability were two separate and distinct subjects. One conferred a right and the other imposed a
limitation." Under the circumstances it was a complete
answer to the attempt which was made to make the right
depend upon the limitation. And that, too, without the
removal of the limitation being availed of by the Indian.
As we have seen, to have availed himself of it would have
relinquished the right, for by the express provision of
the statute it only existed while the title remained in him.
The elements are different in the case at bar. Sarah
Smith invoked a removal of the limitation, the restriction upon alienation, and could only receive the benefit
of the law by accepting the consequences of the law.
It would indeed have been anomalous to give her power
to erect a town and convey its lots free from taxation.
New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164, is adduced by
plaintiffs in error to sustain their contention. That case
passed upon a grant of the State of New Jersey to certain
Indians, "with the privilege of exemption from taxation." It was decided that the privilege, though for the
benefit of the Indians, was annexed by the terms which
created it to the land itself, not to their persons. And this
was an advantage to the Indians, it was said, "because,
in the event of sale, on which alone the question could
become material, the value would be enhanced by it."
But it was further said it was not doubted that the State
might have insisted on a surrender of the privilege as the
sole condition on which a sale of the property should be
allowed. Such condition is imposed by the acts of Congress which we have mentioned, when voluntarily invoked by an allottee. And there is no hardship in this.
The right or privilege of exemption from taxation cannot
be taken from an allottee's land while he retains the title.
Its surrender may not be forced from him, but he may
yield it in bargain for another right or privilege; and any

OCTO3ER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

improvident estimate of the right to be given up or to be
received is guarded against by the requirement of the approval by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes
and the Secretary of the Interior. And it can easily
be seen that if exemption from taxation gave value to
the land, the power to constitute towns was of greater
value. The record shows the value of the lots to plaintiffs in error in the erected town, ranging from $25 to
$1700, a number being valued at $100, others at $200,
$300, $400, and $1500. We may observe that Sarah
Smith was authorized to sell for not less than $125 an
acre.
Judgment affirmed.

ABERCROMBIE & FITCH COMPANY ET AL. ,.
BALDWIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 67.

Argued November 19, 20, 1917.-Decided December 10, 1917.

The Baldwin patent, original No. 821,580, reissue No. 13,542, for improvements in acetylene gas generating lamps, held valid and infringed as to claim 4.
The patent relates to an acetylene gas generating lamp, with an upper
reservoir for water and a lower receptacle for calcium carbide, connected by a tube, with a rod extending through the tube and subject to manipulation from above. The inventive features involved
lie in securing a proper flow of the water through the tube and
access for it to the unslaked carbide, the first, by adopting a comparatively large tube with a size of rod suitably restricting its capacity; the second, by manipulating the rod when necessary to break
up slaked carbide at the mouth of the tube in the lower receptacle.

