OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

245 U. S.

announced the decision

of the court:
The essential questions involved in these cases are the
same as those considered and decided in No. 427, ante, 105.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in each of
them is accordingly
Affirmed.

KELLEY, TRUSTEE OF THE GIBRALTAR INVESTMENT AND HOME BUILDING COMPANY, BANKRUPT, v. GILL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 411.

Submitted October 2, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

A court of bankruptcy has no jurisdiction over a suit in equity brought
by the trustee of a bankrupt corporation in the State of the corporation's domicile, against a number of its shareholders there residing,
for the purpose of collecting from, each an ascertained sum of money
which by the terms of such shareholder's individual subscription
contract had become unconditionally due and payable to the corporation at times specified and without regard to the obligations of
other shareholders.
Where the liabilities of the shareholders of a corporation to pay stock
subscriptions are several, independent, and unconditional, and no
issue with the corporation touching such liabilities is common to
the shareholders, the remedy of the corporation, or its trustee in
bankruptcy, is by action at law against each shareholder separately;
the equitable jurisdiction to avoid multiplicity of actions does not
arise merely because the claims are very numerous; and a single

KELLEY v. GILL.
116.

Counsel for Parties.

suit .by the corporation, or by its trustee in bankruptcy, against
many of the shareholders, to collect their subscriptions, cannot be
maintained on that ground.
An order of the court of bankruptcy, calling for the payment of shareholders' subscriptions to a bankrupt corporation which, before and
independently of the order, were ascertained and payable, adds
nothing to the liabilities of the shareholders or to the rights of the
trustee in bankruptcy, and cannot justify a single suit by the trustee
against many of the shareholders to collect their subscriptions which,
in the absence of the order, would not have been cognizable in equity;
and neither can an order of the bankruptcy court directing the
trustee "to institute a suit in equity" to make such collections confer such equitable jurisdiction.
The amendment to § 47, clause (2) of subdivision a of the Bankruptcy
Act, made by the Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 840, § 8, did
not confer new means of collecting ordinary claims due the
bankrupt.
Where causes of action and citizenship of parties are such that a bankrupt, before bankruptcy, could have sued only in a state court, the
bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction to enforce them at the suit
of the trustee, even if as a matter of equity jurisdiction the trustee
might join all causes in one bill to prevent a multiplicity of suits,
while the bankrupt would have been obliged to sue upon each of
them independently at law.
Contested claims of a bankrupt corporation against persons alleged
to be shareholders, for moneys alleged to be due and payable on subscriptions to the corporate stock, are not to be regarded as property
in the possession of the trustee in bankruptcy for the purpose of
determining whether the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction to enforce them; nor does the fact that sAch alleged debtors are shareholders of the corporation enable the trustee to sue them in that
forum to collect their subscriptions.
238 Fed. Rep. 996, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Win. B. Ogden and Mr. Ralph E. Esteb for appellant.
Mr. William Ona Morton, Mr. Porter C. Blackburn and
Mr. A. L. Abrahams for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

245 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Gibraltar Investment and Home Building Company, a California corporation with a capital stock of
$2,000,000 divided into 20,000,000 shares of ten cents
each, was adjudicated a bankrupt in the Southern District
of that State. Its debts were about $150,000. Its assets
consisted of amounts aggregating $480,971.23 unpaid
and overdue on subscriptions to its stock. The subscription of each stockholder was contained in a separate
contract which provided for payment unconditionally
at specified dates. The court of bankruptcy found that a
large majority of the subscribers were non-residents of
the district or were insolvent and that the full amount
due from resident solvent stockholders would be required
to pay the claims of creditors and the cost of administration. It ordered payment of all unpaid subscriptions
and directed the trustee in bankruptcy "to institute a
suit in equity" to enforce collection thereof. Such a suit
was brought in that court against Gill and about 3,000
other residents of the district. A motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction was sustained; and a decree was entered dismissing the bill. (238 Fed. Rep. 996.) The case
comes here on appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
The question presented is of importance in the administration of bankrupt corporations. To enable the trustee,
by means of a single suit in the court of bankruptcy, to
determine and enforce payment of all amounts due from
stockholders would obviously promote the effective administration of the bankrupt estate; but the aggregate
burden thereby cast upon the individual stockholders
might be correspondingly heavy. Whether the right to
choose the court and the place in which litigation shall
proceed should be conferred upon the trustee or upon

the defendant, is a legislative question with which Con-

KELLEY v. GILL.
116.

Opinion of the Court.

gress has dealt in the Bankruptcy Act (1898, c. 541, 30
Stat. 544). Section 2, clause 7, confers upon the court
of bankruptcy jurisdiction to "cause the estates of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed,
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except
as herein otherwise provided." But § 23-b prohibits
the trustee (with exceptions not here applicable) from
prosecuting, without the consent of the proposed defendant, a suit in a court other than that in which the bankrupt might have brought it, had bankruptcy not intervened. 1 The corporation is a citizen of California. It
could not have sued these stockholders except in the
state courts. The court of bankruptcy was, therefore,
without jurisdiction of this suit unless there is something
either in the nature of the cause of action or in the relation of stockholders to a corporation or in the character
of the suit, which prevents the application of the prohibition contained in § 23-b.
The trustee seeks to sustain the jurisdiction on the
ground:
First: That the suit-a bill in equity against all resident stockholders-is not one which the corporation
could have brought "if proceedings in bankruptcy had
not been instituted"; and that a right to bring it arises
in the trustee under the amendment of 1910 to § 47,
Clause a (2).2
The Bankruptcy Act of 1867 as amended conferred expressly upon
the federal courts jurisdiction of actions by the assignees for the collection of debts owing the bankrupt or other assets. Bardes v. Hawarden
Bank, 178 U. S. 524, 531. And independently of any statute, a receiver of an insolvent corporation, appointed by a federal court on a
judgment creditor's bill under its general equity jurisdiction, had been
held in 1895 entitled to sue a debtor of the corporation in that court on
the ground that the proceeding was ancillary. White v. Ewing, 159
U. S. 36.
2 1910, c. 412, § 8 (36 Stat. 840).
"See. 8. That section forty-seven, clause two, of subdivision a of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Second: That the suit is a proceeding concerning property in the actual or constructive possession of the trustee
or the bankrupt.'
The cause of action sued on is the failure of the several
stockholders to perform their several unconditional promises to pay definite amounts at fixed times which have
elapsed. The amount payable by one is in no way dependent upon what is due from another. The corporation
had a separate right against each alleged stockholder;
and the remedy open to it was a separate action at law
against each. The trustee rightly assumes that the corporation could not have brought a single suit in equity
against all these stockholders, although a very large
number of actions at law would be required to make collection of the balances unpaid on the stock. There was
no common issue between these alleged stockholders and
the corporation; and the liability of each would have
presented a separate controversy unconnected with that
of any other. Thus elements essential to jurisdiction in
equity to avoid multiplicity of actions at law by the corporations were lacking. St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. McKnight, 244 U. S. 368, 375.2 That
said Act as so amended be, and the same hereby is, amended so as to
read as follows:
"Collect and reduce to money the property of the estate for which
they are trustees, under the direction of the court, and close up the
estate as expeditiously as is compatible with the best interests of the
parties in .interest: and such trustees, as to all property in the custody
or coming into the custody of the bankruptcy court, shall be deemed
vested with all the rights, remedies, and powers of a creditor holding
a lien by legal or equitable proceedings thereon; and also, as to all
property not in the custody of the bankruptcy court, shall be deemed
vested with all the rights, remedies, and powers of a judgment creditor
holding an execution duly returned unsatisfied."
I See Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S.
539, 552.
1 In White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36, 38, where this court was requested,
on certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals, to answer a question

KELLEY v. GILL.
116.

Opinion of the Court.

lack is not supplied by the assignment to the trustee. No
other property has become involved. No new issues have
been raised. The order of the court of bankruptcy that
subscriptions be paid up was not a condition precedent
to the existence of the causes of action against the several
stockholders; and it added nothing to the rights which
had already passed to the trustee. For him, also, the
appropriate remedy was a separate action at law against
each stockholder. The amendment of 1910 to § 47 of
the Bankruptcy Act did not confer new means of collecting ordinary claims due the bankrupt; and the order
directing the trustee "to institute a suit. in equity" was
impotent to confer equity jurisdiction.
But even if there had been equity jurisdiction, the suit
could not have been brought- in the federal court. The
cause of action sued on would still have been the broken
promise of the individual stockholder to pay the balance
on his stock. That was a cause of action on which the
bankrupt could have sued and sued only in the state court.
The cause of action would remain the same, although
equity, to avoid multiplicity of actions at law, undertook
to deal with three thousand separate claims in a single
suit. The mere fact that the -bankrupt could not have
brought the particular suit would not confer on the court
of bankruptcy jurisdiction of the suit of the trustee.
Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524.
Nor can the jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy
be maintained on the ground that .this is a suit brought
to determine a controversy concerning property in the
possession of the trustee. He had possession merely of
contested claims against alleged stockholders. Many
arising in an ancillary suit similar in character, brought by a receiver,
the opinion of the court called attention to the fact that "no exception
was taken to the form of the bill by demurrer or otherwise, but defendants answered, denying liability"; and the fact had been also
noted by the Circuit Court of Appeals. (66 Fed. Rep. 2.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

of the defendants may prove not to be stockholders. And
even those confessedly stockholders are, in respect to
the matters in controversy, as much strangers to the
corporation and to the estate as any other person against
whom the corporation had a cause of action. The fact
that an alleged debtor of a corporation is a stockholder,
or even an officer, does not enable the trustee to sue him
in the court of bankruptcy. Park v. Cameron, 237 U. S.
616.
We have no occasion to consider whether a different
rule applies in those cases where an order of the court of
bankruptcy is a condition precedent to the existence of
any liability, either because stockholders are liable only
after a call, or because the liability of stockholders is
pro rata and limited to such sums as may, in the aggregate, be necessary to satisfy the claims of creditors.
Decree affirmed.

SCHARRENBERG v. DOLLAR STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET. AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 192.

Argued October 12, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

Inducing and assisting aliens to come from abroad', working as seamen on the way, for bona fide service as seamen on an American
ship during her voyage from American ports to foreign countries
and while she lies in such ports preparatory to or in the course of
such voyage, is not an assisting or encouraging of the importation
or migration of alien "contract laborers" "into the United States,"
within §§ 4 and 5 of the Act of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898, as
amended by the Act of March 26, 1910, 36 Stat. 263.

