UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
86.

Syllabus.

it is unnecessary to decide, as the section does not change
the result. Section 4 provides that the reviewing court
shall not dismiss a writ of error because an appeal should
have been taken, or dismiss an appeal because a writ
of error should have been sued out, but shall disregard
such mistakes and take the action appropriate if the
proper appellate procedure had been followed. This
section does not abolish the distinction between writs of
error and appeals, but only requires that the party seeking
review shall have it in the appropriate way nowithstanding
a mistake in choosing the mode of review.
Upon petition for rehearing in the Supreme Court the
plaintiff in error contended that she should have been
allowed the right of redemption. Upon that question
the court adhered to its first judgment denying the right,
and affirmed the doctrine announced in Benedicto v. Yulo,
26 Phil. Rep. 160. We are not disposed to disturb this
judgment of the Supreme Court construing local laws
and announcing a rule applicable in the Islands.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippines is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS TRUSTEE
AND GUARDIAN OF THE OMAHA TRIBE OF
INDIANS, ET AL., v. CHASE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 146.

Argued October 2, 1917.-Decided November 5, 1917.

The assignment of land provided for by Article IV of the treaty of
March 6, 1865, 14 Stat. 667, with the Omaha Indians, was merely
an apportionment of the tribal right of occupancy to the members
of the tribe in severalty, leaving the fee in the United States and

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

leaving the United States and the tribe free to take such measures
for the ultimate and permanent disposal of the lands, including the
fee, as might become appropriate in view of changing conditions,
the welfare of the Indians and the public interests.
The facts that the treaty does not say that the fee shall pass, that it
makes no provision for patents, and does not relieve assignees from
federal guardianship or subject them to state laws, or dissolve the
tribe, or abridge its power to speak and act for its members, while
it does expressly provide that all the lands, assigned and unassigned,
shall remain an Indian reservation, subject to the Indian trade and
intercourse laws of Congress, and upon which white persons, other
than federal employees, shall not be allowed to reside or go without
written permission from the Indian agent or a superior officer, confirm this construction of Article IV.
This construction also is confirmed by the practical construction
placed upon the treaty by the United States and the tribe, as evidenced by the terms of the certificates of assignment, the petition
of a number of the assignees, including chiefs who had participated
in the treaty, for a better tenure, the passage of the Act of August 7,
1882, c. 434, 22 Stat. 341, to become operative when consented
to by the tribe, the acceptance of that act by the tribe, and the execution of the act through the surrender and accounting for outstanding certificates of assignment, and the making and acceptance of
allotments under it-a construction of the treaty which has become
practically a part of it and could not be now rejected without seriously disturbing the titles of those who not unreasonably relied upon
it.
Possessory rights based on assignments made under Article IV of the
treaty of 1865, supra, were terminated by the Act of 1882, supra.
An assignee who failed to exercise his preferred right of selection
waived it, and his assigned tract became allottable to any other
qualified selector.
The provision in § 4 of the Act of August 7, 1882, supra, that "any
right in severalty acquired by any Indian under existing treaties
shall not be affected by this act" was not intended to qualify the
plan of allotment defined in § 5, but only to prevent the sale under
the earlier and separable portion of the act of tracts subject to Indian rights in severalty acquired under treaties.
A patent for an allotment issued under the Act of August 7, 1882,
supra, in the name of an Indian who was dead at the time, inures
to the benefit of his heir under § 2448, Rev. Stats.; the fact that
the patentee had died before requisite proceedings had been taken

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

upon his selection would not render the patent void but at most
voidable in an appropriate proceeding. Such a patent cannot be
attacked by a mere occupant of the allotment in an action brought
by the United States and the patentee's heir to recover damages
for wrongful use and occupation of the premises.
222 Fed. Rep. 593, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Hiram Chase, pro se, and Mr. Thomas L. Sloan,
with whom Mr. William R. King was on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. 0. C. Anderson and Mr. Charles J. Kappler, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Harry L. Keefe, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curie.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is an action to recover for the wrongful use and
occupancy of forty acres of land in Nebraska to which
two Omaha Indians assert conflicting claims. The land
is within the Omaha Indian Reservation, was assigned
in 1871 under the treaty of March 6, 1865, 14 Stat. 667,
to Clarissa Chase, a member of the Omaha tribe, and was
allotted in 1899 under the Act of August 7, 1882, c. 434,
22 Stat. 341, to Reuben Wolf, another member of the
tribe. The defendant, who has been using and occupying
the land for some time, claims as the sole heir of Clarissa
Chase, and the other claimant-for whom the United
States sues as trustee and guardian-claims as the sole
heir of Reuben Wolf. In the District Court judgment
went against the defendant, but he prevailed in the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

cuit Court of Appeals. 222 Fed. Rep. 593. Whether
the assignment to Clarissa Chase under the treaty passed
the full title in fee or only the Indian right of occupancy,
and whether all right under the assignment was extinguished prior to the allotment to Reuben Wolf under the
Act of 1882, are the controlling questions.
The reservation was established and maintained under
early treaties as the tribal home. The Indian right of
possession was in the tribe and the fee in the United States.
The possessory right was enjoyed by all the members in
common, none having a several right in any part of the
reservation. While this was so the treaty of 1865 was
negotiated. By it the tribe ceded a portion of the reservation to the United States and the latter, in consideration of the cession, engaged to make certain payments
to the Indians and to take certain measures, not material
here, for their benefit. The treaty then proceeded:
"Article IV. The Omaha Indians being desirous of
promoting settled habits of industry and enterprise
amongst themselves by abolishing the tenure in common
by which they now hold their lands, and by assigning
limited quantities thereof in severalty to the members
of the tribe,,, including their half or mixed blood relatives"
now residing with them, to be cultivated and improved
for their own individual use and benefit, it is hereby agreed
and stipulated that the remaining portion of their present
reservation shall be set apart for said purposes; and that
out of the same there shall be assigned- to each head of a
family not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, and
to each male person, eighteen years of age and upwards,
without family, not exceeding forty acres of land-to
include in every case, as far as practicable, a reasonable
proportion of timber; six hundred and forty acres of said
lands, embracing and surrounding the present agency.
improvements, shall also be set apart and appropriated
to the occupancy and use of the agency for said Indians.

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

The lands to be so assigned, including those for the' use
of the agency, shall be in as regular and compact a body
as possible, and so as to admit of a distinct and welldefined exterior boundary. The whole of the lands,
assigned or unassigned, in severalty, shall constitute and
be known as the Omaha reservation, within and over
which all laws passed or which may be passed by Congress
regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes
shall have full force and effect, and no white person, except such as shall be in the employ of the United States,
shall be allowed to reside or go upon any portion of said
reservation without the written permission of the superintendent of Indian affairs or the agent for the tribe. Said
division and assignment of lands to the Omahas in severalty shall be made under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, and when approved by him, shall be final
and conclusive. Certificates shall be issued by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for the tracts so assigned,
specifying the names of the individuals to whom they
have been assigned respectively, and that they are for
the exclusive use and benefit of themselves, their heirs,
and descendants; and said tracts shall not be alienated
in fee, leased, or otherwise disposed of except to the
United States or to other members of the tribe, under
such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
Secretary of the Interior, and they shall be exempt from
taxation, levy, sale, or forfeiture, until otherwise provided
for by Congress."
Some of the Omahas sought and received assignments
under this article, while others, although having the
requisite status, neither sought nor received anything
under it. Clarissa Chase was among those who obtained
an assignment of 160 acres as the head of a family, and
in 1870 a certificate evidencing her assignment was issued
to her by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. The 160
acres included the 40 acres now in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

Without any doubt the fourth article contains provisions which, in other situations, would suggest a purpose
to pass the full title in fee. This is true of the provisions
that the assignments, when approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, "shall be final and conclusive," that the
certificates to be issued by the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs shall specify that the tracts assigned are for the
exclusive use and benefit of the assignees, "their heirs and
descendants," and that the tracts shall not be "alienated
in fee, leased, or otherwise disposed of except to the
United States or to other members of the tribe." But as
applied to the situation then in hand these provisions are
consistent with a purpose to apportion the Indian possessory right, leaving the fee in the United States as before. The assignments, when approved, could well operate as a final and conclusive apportionment of that right
without affecting the fee; and the right of each assignee
to occupy and use the tract assigned to him, to the exclusion of other members, could well pass to his heirs and
descendants, upon his death, without his being invested
with the fee. If not invested with it, he, of course, could
not alienate it, and a cautious provision intended to prevent him from attempting to do so hardly would enlarge
his right. True, the provision says, "except to the United
States or to other members of the tribe," but, as the restriction is also directed against leasing or other disposal,
it is not improbable that the real purpose of the excepting
clause is to qualify this part of the restriction. In any
event, the implication attributed to the provision is too
uncertain to afford a substantial basis for thinking the
assignee was to take the fee.
Other provisions and considerations suggest that an
apportionment of the tribal possessory right is all that
was intended. The article directly provides for a change
in tenure--an "assignment or division" in severalty of
communal property. Nothing is said about passing the

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

fee held by the United States, and there is no provision
for patents. The assignees are neither relieved from federal guardianship nor subjected to state laws. And there
is no dissolution of the tribal organization, nor any abridgment of the accustomed power of the tribe, as such, to
speak and act for its members. But there is express provision that all the lands, assigned and unassigned, shall
remain an Indian reservation over which the Indian trade
and intercourse laws of Congress shall be in force, and
upon which no white person, not in the employ of the
United States, shall be allowed to reside or go without
written permission from the Indian agent or a superior
officer. All this persuasively points to the absence of any
purpose to do more than to individualize the existing
tribal right of occupancy.
A like question was presented and considered in Veale v.
Maynes, 23 Kansas, 1, a case arising out of the treaties of
1861 and 1867 with the Pottawatomie Indians. The
earlier treaty provided in language similar to that now
under consideration for the assignment of portions of the
tribal reservation to individual members in severalty
and for the issue by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
of certificates for the assigned tracts, "specifying the
names of the individuals to whom they have been assigned, respectively, and that said tracts are set apart
for the perpetual and exclusive use and benefit of such
assignees and their heirs." Assignments were made and
certificates issued under that treaty and thereafter the
treaty of 1867 was negotiated. Following its provisions a
tract assigned under the earlier treaty to one member
was conveyed by a patent in fee to another. This was
claimed to be violative of the right conferred by the assignment, but the right under the patent was sustained.
Speaking for the Supreme Court of Kansas, and particularly referring to the earlier treaty, Mr. Justice Brewer,
then a member of that court, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

"Now what was intended by this division-that the
title be thus divided up, or the mere matter of occupancy?
Of course either was within the power of the contracting
parties. They might provide for a division among the
several Indians which should vest an absolute title in
each, beyond the power of the tribe or the government
to disturb without the personal consent of the individual;
or they might provide for an individualizing of the right
of occupancy, giving to each person a sole right of occupancy in a particular tract, a right guaranteed against
invasion by any individual, but still within the power of
the tribe as a tribe to convey by treaty. In other words,
while that remained the tribal home each individual desiring it should have separate control of certain lands,
yet subject to the ultimate power of the tribe to change
their home and to make absolute conveyance of the whole
body of lands. The power of the tribe, as a tribe, remained undisturbed over both the allotted lands and
those held in common. That this was the intent and
effect of the treaty, we are constrained to hold, and this
notwithstanding many expressions which, if used in
ordinary contracts between individuals, would have
marked significance to the contrary.
i .
At present it is enough to notice that the
allottee remained a member of the tribe, and if the intention had been to enlarge his title from the ordinary Indian
title, one of occupancy, to that of a fee-simple, the intention would, it seems, have been expressed in unmistakable
terms. If, on the other hand, a difference was to be made
in the mere manner in which the various Indians occupied
the tribal home, it was enough that that difference was
made clear, and language used to indicate that should not
be carried to some further meaning."
In Wiggan v. Conolly, 163 U. S. 56, 63, where the rights
of an allottee, who was still a tribal Indian, were restricted
by treaty after the allotment was made, this court said:

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

"The land and the allottee were both still under the
charge and care of the Nation and the tribe, and they

could agree for still further protection, a protection which
no individual was at liberty to challenge."
But if the terms of the treaty of 1865 be regarded as
confused or uncertain the question still must be resolved
in the same way, for the parties-the United States and
the tribe-have in practice placed upon the treaty the
construction to which we are inclined. In the certificates
issued by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and accepted
by the assignees it was declared that "the said [assignee]
is entitled to and may take immediate possession of said
land and occupy the same, and the United States guarantees such possession, and will hold the title thereto in
trust for the exclusive use and benefit of [the assignee]
and-heirs so long as such occupancy shall continue."
The obvious import of this is that the assignee was to
have a right of occupancy, but not the fee. In January,
1882, a considerable number of the assignees, some being
chiefs who had participated in the negotiation of the treaty
and whose names were signed to it, memorialized Congress as follows (Sen. Misc. Doc., No. 31, 47th Cong., 1st
sess.):
"We, the undersigned, members of the Omaha tribe
of Indians, have taken out certificates of allotment of
land, or entered upon claims within the limits of the
Omaha reserve. We have worked upon our respective
lands from three to ten years; each farm has from five

to fifty acres under cultivation; many of us have built
houses on these lands, and all have endeavored to
make permanent homes for ourselves and our children.
"We therefore petition your honorable body to grant

to each one a clear and full title to the land on which he
has worked.
"We earnestly pray that this petition may receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

your favorable consideration, for we now labor with
discouragement of heart, knowing that our farms are not
our own, and that any day we may be forced to leave the
lands on which we have worked. We desire to live and
work on these farms where we have made homes, that
our children may advance in the life we have adopted.
To this end, and that we may go forward with hope and
confidence in a better future for our tribe, we ask of you,
titles to our lands."
Shortly after the presentation of this memorial a bill
providing for the sale of the western part of the Omaha
Reservation passed the Senate. At that time the only
provision in the bill having any possible reference to the
existing assignments was a saving clause in its fourth
section declaring that "any right in severalty acquired
by any Indian under existing treaties shall not be affected
by this act." In the House of Representatives four new
sections were added, and in that form the bill became the
Act of August 7, 1882, before cited. The new sections,
5 to 8, contain elaborate provisions for making allotments
in severalty out of the unsold portion of the reservation,
for adjusting the situation to which the Indian memorial
invited attention, for the issue of trust patents and patents carrying the fee, for disposing of the surplus lands
in the reservation and for ultimately bringing the Indians
within the operation of state laws. The fifth section, the
one providing for allotments and dealing with the existing
assignments, was both comprehensive and easily understood. It was in the nature of a proposal and in terms
required "the consent of the Omaha tribe of Indians,
expressed in open council," to make it operative. Shortly
stated, what it proposed was this: All unsold lands, including those theretofore assigned under the treaty of
1865, were to be available for allotments. The right to
receive allotments was to be accorded to the members
generally, including those holding assignments under the

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

treaty. The allotments were to be on a scale 1of 160 acres
to each head of a family, 80 acres to each single person
over eighteen years of age, 80 acres to each orphan child
under eighteen years and 40 acres to each other person
under eighteen years. The Indians were severally to
select the lands to be allotted to them, heads of families
selecting for their children and the agent selecting for
orphan children. These allotments were to be "deemed
and held to be in lieu of" the assignments under the treaty
of 1865, but each assignee, when selecting the lands to be
allotted to him, was to be accorded "a preference right"
to select the tract embracing his improvements. In short,
all rights under the assignments, as such, were to be extinguished, and each assignee was to have the same right
to take an allotment as was accorded to other members,
but with a preferred right to make his selection in such
way that his allotment would include his improvements.
The sixth section provided for the issue of trust patents
covering a period of twenty-five years, and for full patents
conveying the fee at the end of that period.
The tribe, in open council, gave its consent to this
plan of allotment and adjustment, and, through the cooperation of the administrative officers and the tribe,
the plan was carried to completion. The report of the
allotting agent shows that of the 297 outstanding certificates of assignment 230 were produced and surrendered
and 67 were accounted for as lost by fire, flood or other
accident, and that most of the certificate holders took
the assigned tracts for their allotments-others selecting
different lands. Thus it is apparent that the parties to
the treaty-the United States and the tribe-have in all
their dealings relating to the subject proceeded upon the
theory that what was intended by Article IV and what
I The quantity of some of the allotments was subsequently enlarged
with the consent of the tribe. C. 209, 27 Stat. 630.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

245 U. S.

was accomplished by the assignments under it was merely
a distribution or apportionment of the tribal right of
occupancy, leaving the fee in the United States and leaving the United States and the tribe free to take such measures for the ultimate and permanent disposal of the lands,
including the fee, as might become essential or appropriate
in view of changing conditions, the welfare of the Indians
and the public interests. This construction of the treaty
by those who entered into it and to whom its proper administration and application were of obvious importance
has become practically a part of it and could not be rejected now, after the lapse of many years, without seriously disturbing the titles of those who, not unreasonably, relied upon it.
Concluding, as we do, that the assignment to Clarissa
Chase passed only the Indian or tribal right of occupancy,
the remaining question is not difficult of solution. She
took that right as it was held by the tribe, without enlargement or diminution. It was merely individualized.
Upon her death, in 1875, it passed to the defendant, he
being her sole heir. The Act of 1882, consented to by
the tribe, put into effect a general plan of allotment
which completely displaced the Indian right of occupancy and in that sense terminated all right under the
assignment. Under that plan the assigned tract was
available for allotments and the defendant was entitled
to an allotment. He could select the assigned tract for
his allotment-indeed, he had a preferred right to do so.
He could exercise that right or waive it and select other
lands. But he could not select other lands and also hold
the assigned tract. He was entitled to one allotment,
not two. If not selected by him, the tract in question
would be open to selection by another. He does not
assert that he selected it, or that he was denied the right
to do so, or that he received less than a full allotment
without this tract. But he claims that the assignment

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
89.

Opinion of the Court.

passed the title in fee and in consequence was an insurmountable obstacle to .the allotment of the tract under
the Act of 1882. This claim, as has been shown, is untenable. All that passed by the assignment was a possessory right, and this was terminated by the Act of 1882.
Some reliance is had upon the provision in § 4 that
"any right in severalty acquired by any Indian under
existing treaties shall not be affected by this act." But
this, as an examination of the act discloses, is merely a
saving clause in that part of the act providing for the
sale of a distinct portion of the reservation. If the provision be read in connection with what is said in § 5 in
dealing, with allotments and with assignments under the
treaty it becomes manifest that it was not intended to
interfere with or qualify the plan of allotment as defined
in that section, but only to prevent the sale, under the
earlier and separable portion of the act, of any tract to
which an Indian had a right in severalty under a treaty.
The legislative history of the act also sustains this view.
See Cong. Rec., 47th Cong., 1st sess., pp. 3028-3032,
3077-3079.
According to the pleadings, Reuben Wolf died at some
time after selecting the tract for his allotment and before
the issue of the patent in his name, and this is set up as an
obstacle to a recovery on behalf of his heir. If there be
any merit in this objection, it does not render the patent
void but only voidable. A statute in force for many
years, and which this court has applied to a patent issued
under an Indian treaty for Indian lands, provides that
where the person to whom the patent issues is dead at
the time the title shall inure to and become vested in his
heirs, devisees or assigns, as if the patent had issued in
his lifetime. Rev. Stats., § 2448; Crews v. Burcham, 1
Black, 352, 357. Thus the fact that Reuben Wolf was
dead when the patent issued is in itself of no moment.
If his selection had not advanced before his death to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

245 U. S.

point where the patent properly could be issued thereafter that is a matter of which only the United States and
the tribe can complain-and then only in an appropriate
proceeding. Apparently both are content to let the
patent stand, and certainly it is not open to the defendant to make the objection.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be reversed and that of the District Court
affirmed.
It is so ordered.

EICHEL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY
& GUARANTY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 571.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted October 8, 1917.Decided November 5, 1917.

Appellant having brought a number of actions against appellee in
the District Court, all cognizable there because arising under a law
of the United States, appellee filed in that court a bill ancillary and
dependent in form setting up a partial equitable defense to all the
actions and other partial defenses to some, and praying that the
whole matter be tried in equity and the legal proceedings enjoined.
The bill also showed diversity of citizenship. Relief was decreed
accordingly in the District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals.
Held, that the bill was dependent and ancillary, that the jurisdiction
to entertain it was referable to that invoked in the actions at law,
and that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was therefore
reviewable by appeal. Jud. Code, §§ 128, 241.
In a much litigated case, presenting only questions of fact and wellsettled questions of general law, unaffected by any ruling on any
federal question, where the federal courts of two circuits had reached
the same conclusions of fact independently, this court, being satis-

