CALLEN v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
596

Syllabus.

we must give trial courts and juries that wide discretion
in this field to which a living record, as distinguished
from a printed record, logically entitles them. In this
living record there are many guideposts to the truth which
are not in the printed record. Without seeing them ourselves, we will do well to give heed to those who have
seen them.
CALLEN v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR- THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 331.

Argued December 18, 1947.-Decided January 12, 1948.

1. Where plaintiff in a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act contended that a release relied upon by defendant was invalid
because neither party knew at the time it was given that plaintiff's
injury was permanent, and the permanence of the injury was
disputed by defendant, defendant was entitled to have the issue
as to the permanence of the injury passed upon by the jury; and
it was error for the trial court to withdraw from the jury the
question of the validity of the release. Pp. 626-629.
2. Where, in a case under ti - Federal Employers' Liability Act, a
railroad pleads a release obtained from an injured employee and
the employee admits giving the release but challengts its validity
on the ground of fraud or mutual mistake, the burden is on the
employee to show that the contract was invalid. Pp. 629-630.
3. Section 5 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, providing that
any contract to enable any common carrier to "exempt itself from
any liability created by this chapter shall to that extent be void,"
does not prevent a railroad from compromising or settling claims
and obtaining releases based upon such settlements. Pp. 630-631.
162 F. 2d 832, affirmed.

In a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the plaintiff obtained a judgment notwithstanding a release previously given. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed and ordered a new trial. 162 F. 2d 832. This
Court granted certiorari. 332 U. S. 807. Affirmed, p. 631.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

B. Nathaniel Richter, by special leave of Court, pro
hac vice, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on
the brief was John H. Hoffman. Edward J. Griffiths was
also of counsel.
Philip Price argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was Hugh B. Cox.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

With

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff, a railroad brakeman, brought this action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65;
53 Stat. 1404; 45 U. S. C. ยง 51. He recovered a jury
verdict of $24,990, but the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed because of errors in the charge by the District
Judge and ordered.a new trial. The plaintiff's claim as
submitted to the jury was negligence on the part of an
engineer in effecting a coupling operation at a speed
which plaintiff thought would jolt him off the stirrup
of the car he was riding. In jumping for safety, he
claimed to have received a severe and permanent back
injury. The defendant denied the occurrence, offered
testimony that plaintiff did not work at the time in
question and also evidence of his admission that he did
not work on that day but instead shoveled snow to get
his car out of the garage. It also was testified that he
had told his conductor he hurt his back on a different
occasion. But if the injury was sustained at the time
and place alleged, the defendant denied negligence,
claimed contributory negligence and pleaded a general
release. The controversy here concerns the release.
It was proved and not denied that for a consideration
of $250 the plaintiff executed a general release of "all
claims and demands which I have or can or may have
against the said Pennsylvania Railroad Company for or
by reason of personal injuries sustained by me" at the

CALLEN v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
625

Opinion of the Court.

time and place involved in the suit. It also released
claims for loss of time and expense, and recited that the
payment was in compromise and not an admission of liability, that plaintiff read and understood the agreement
and that the sum of money stated therein is all that he
-was to receive.
On the trial, the plaintiff testified that he read and
understbod the release, knew what he was doing and
intended to waive any further claim, and .that when he
began talking settlement he said he should have between
$300 and $350. No fraud was alleged, but the plaintiff
testified that he executed the release in reliance on the
claim agent's assurance that "there was nothing wrong"
and that he "was all right to go back .to the job."
At the trial, plaintiff offered evidence from which the
jury might well find that he had a permanent and serious
injury. The claim agent admitted that at the time of
settlement he did not know the plaintiff was suffering
the injury which the doctors at the trial described. The
plaintiff had gone to a family physician who taped his
back and to a chiropractor whose report plaintiff took
with him to the claim agent. It did not diagnose permanent injury but did suggest a weakness making him more
susceptible to recurrence. The Railroad procured no
medical examination of plaintiff. The claim agent's tutimony iWas that he determined the amount of the settlement on the basis of his belief that there was no
liability.
Instructing the jury, the trial court stated:
"Anyhow, they settled to the extent of $250.00, and
the release has been offered in evidence and admitted,
and both sides agree that that release was not in
contemplation of any sort of permanent injury.
"Now, I am going to consider that release as binding to the amount of $250.00, and if you find a verdict

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

for the plaintiff you will deduct that from any
amount you would otherwise give him. The $250.00
he got for expenses and medical bills and services
that he obtained up to that time; and if you find
that he is entitled to a verdict at your hands I will
ask you to deduct that $250.00 from any amount you
otherwise would award him, because that is what he
agreed to take toward that particular phase of his
claim, and of course he would not and does not ask,
as I understand it to be excused from that,-he
admits that he got it, and there it is.
"The release, as I have told the attorneys for both
sides, I do not consider binding insofar as it applies
to his permanent injuries, because the Pennsylvania
Railroad certainly didn't know he was permanently
injured . ...
The Circuit Court of Appeals, quite rightly we think,
construed the charge of the District Judge as withd~wirg
the question of validity of the release from the jury arfd
said: "This was palpable error under the facts relating
to the release and entirely aside from the Court's incorrect assumption that there was no dispute about the
permanency of the injuries."
An examination of the record at the trial makes it
clear that the issue was raised and sharply'litigated as
to whether the injury, if received by plaintiff in the man-.
ner alleged, was permanent in character. Only when and
if this issue was resolved in favor of one party or the
other could it be known whether there was a basis for
finding a mutual mistake or any mistake of fact in executing the release. The court, however, resolved the issue.
of permanence of injury against the defendant, at least
so far as the release was concerned, and on that basis
withdrew consideration of that issue from the jury. Even
if the issue of permanence were resolved against the defendant, an issue still existed as to validity of the release

CALLEN v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
625

Opinion of the Court.

since the defendant insists that it did not act from mistake as to the nature and extent of the injuries but entered
into the release for the small consideration involved
because, upon the evidence in its hands at the time, no
liability was indicated. We think the defendant was
entitled to argue these contentions to the jury and to
have them submitted under proper instructions.
It is apparent that the jury accepted the instructions
of the court on the subject of the release. Returning,
they rendered a verdict "For the plaintiff, and assess the
damages at $25,240, of which the railroad is to be reimbursed with $250.00." The court, saying he wanted
to make the record right, asked the jury if they made a net
finding of $24,990, which the foreman said they did.
Under the instructions they had received, there was little
else that the jury could do, for the court had withdrawn
from them the issue as to the validity of the release and
consequently had given them no instructions as to the
law that should govern the determination of any such
question.
While the trial court assumed a finding of permanency
as a basis for his setting aside of the release, after challenge to his assumption as to the nature of the injuries
he made every effort to correct the impression, insofar
as it affected the issue of damages. But the trial court
did not correct .or in any way alter his determination
that the release was not binding insofar as it rested on
the assumption of permanent injury. The Court of Appeals was right in holding that failure to submit this
latter question to the jury was reversible error.
We are urged, however, to decide in this case that the
release was properly disregarded by the trial court upon
the ground that the burden should not be on one who
attacks a release, to show grounds of mutual mistake
or fraud, but should rest upon the one who pleads such
a contract, to prove the absence of those grounds.' It

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

is not contended that this is or ever has been the law;
rather, it is contended that it should be the law, at least
as to railroad cases. The amicus brief* puts it that
"We ask that the burden of establishing the validity of
a release taken from a railroad employee under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act be placed on the railroad, and that, where but a nominal sum has been paid,
which is less than or even equal to only the wages lost,
that fact of itself be held to be evidence of at least a
mistake of fact, if not presumed fraud, since the railroad
possesses superior facilities for determining the extent of
the injuries. . . ...Considerable reliance is placed upon
a concurring opinion in the Court of Appeals for the
Second .Circuit in Ricketts v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 153
F. 2d 757, 760. However persuasive the arguments there
stated may be that inequality of bargaining power might
well justify a change in the law, they are also a frank
recognition that the Congress has made no such change.
An amendment of this character is for the Congress to
consider rather than for the courts to introduce. If the
Congress were to adopt a policy depriving settlements
of litigation of their prima facie validity, it might also
make compensation for injuries more certain and the
amounts thereof less speculative. But until the Congress
changes the statutory plan, the releases of railroad employees stand on the same basis as the releases of others.
One who attacks a settlement must bear the burden of
showing that the contract he has made is tainted with
invalidity, either by fraud practiced upon him or by a
mutual mistake under which both parties acted.
The plaintiff has also contended that this release violates ยง 5 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act which
provides that any contract to enable any common carrier
to "exempt itself from any liability created by this chapi

* [In support o -the petition for certiorari, see post, p. 807.]

SIPUEL v. BOARD OF REGENTS.
625

Syllabus.

ter, shall to that extent be void." 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C.
ยง 55. It is obvious that a release is not a device to
exempt from liability but is a means of compromising a
claimed liability and to that extent recognizing its possibility. Where controversies exist as to whether there is liability, and if so for how much, Congress has not said that
parties may not settle their claims without litigation.
Since we believe the Court of Appeals was right in
directing a new trial at which the jury shall be permitted
to pass on all issues of fact, the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, being of the

view that releases under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act should be governed by the same rule which applies
to releases by seamen in admiralty (see the separate
opinion of Judge Jerome Frank, Ricketts v. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 153 F. 2d 757, 767-770), dissent from an affirmance of the judgment.

SIPUEL v. BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVER-

SITY OF OKLAHOMA

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 369.

Argued January 7-8, 1948.-Decided January 12, 1948..

A Negro, concededly qualified to receive professional legal education
offered by a State, cannot be denied such education because of
her color. The State must provide such education for her in
conformity with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and provide it as soon as it does for applicants of
'ny other group. Pp. 632-633.
199 Okla. 36, 180 P. 2d 135, reversed.

The' Supreme .Court of Oklahoma affirmed a denial by
an-inferior state couxt of a writ of mandamus to require

