OCTOBER TERM, 1946.

194

Syllabus.

332 U. S.

SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION v.
CHENERY CORPORATION ET, AL.
NO. 81.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.*

Argued December 13, 16, 1946.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. In approving a plan for the reorganization of a holding company
under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the
Securities and Exchange Commission required that preferred stock
purchased by the management without fraud or concealment while
plans of reorganization were before 'the Commission should not
be converted into stock of the reorganized company, like other
preferred stock, but should be surrendered at cost plus interest.
In S. E. C. v. Chenery Corp., 318. U. S. 80, this Court held that
this requirement could not be sustained on the sole ground upon
which it was based by the Commission-i. e., principles of equity
judicially established. On remand, the Commission re-examined
the problem and reached the same result, but based this reqirement on the ground that to permit the management to profit from
purchases of stock made while reorganization proceedings were
'pending would be inconsistent with the standards of §§ 7 and 11 of
the Act. Held: The new order is sustained. Pp. 196-199, 209.
2. This -Court's earlier -decision held only that the requirement could
not be supported on the sole ground stated by the Commission
in its first order; and, on the remand for such further proceedings
as might.be appropriate, the Commission was not precluded in the
performance of its administrative function from reaching the same
result -on proper and relevant grounds. Pp. 200-201.
3. The Commission's action was not precluded by the fact that the
Commission had not anticipated this problem and adopted 4 general rule or regulation governing management trading during reorganization. 'Pp. 201-202.
4. The choice between proceeding by general rule or by ad hoc
decisions is one that lies -primarily in the informed discretion of
the administrative agency. Pp. 202-203.
5. That an ad hoc' decision of the Commission might have a retroactive effect does not necessarily render it invalid. P. 203.
*Togetherwith No. 82, Securities & Exchange Commission v. Federal Water & Gas Corp., also on certiorari to the same Court.

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

195

Counsel for Parties.

6. The scope of judicial review of an administrative decision in which
a new principle was announced is no different from that in the
case of ordinary administrative action. P: 207.
7. The judicial function on review of an order of the Commission is
at an end when it becomes evident that the Commission's action is
based upon substantial evidence and is consistent with the authority
granted by Congress. P. 207.
8. In determining whether to approve a plan of reorganization under
the Act, the Commission may properly consider that some abuses
in -the field' of corporate reorganization may be dealt with effectively only by prohibitions not concerned with the fairness of a
particular transaction. Pp. 207-208.
9. In its interpretation and application of the "fair and equitable"
rule of § 11 (e), and of the standard of what is "detrimental to the
public interest or the interest of investors or consumers" under

§§ 7 (d) (6) and 7 (e), the Commission did not abuse its discretion
in this case. P. 208.
10. There was reasonable basis in this case for the conclusion that the
benefits and profits accruing to the management from the stock
purchases should be prohibited, regardless of the good faith involved. P. 208.
11. The Commission's conclusion in this case is the product of administrative experience, appreciation of the complexities of the
probler,, realization of the statutory policies, and responsible treatment of the uncontested facts; and constitutes an allowable administrative judgment which can not be disturbed on judicial review.
P. 209.
154 F. 2d 6, reversed.

Upon remand to thp. Securities and Exchange Commission of the case decided by this Court in S. E. C. v. Chenery
Corp., 318 U. S. 80, the Commission denied an application
for approval of an amendment of the plan of reorganization. . Holding Company Act Release No. 5584. The
court below reversed. 154 F. 2d 6. This Court granted
certiorari. 328 U. S. 829. Reversed, p. 209.
Roger S. Foster argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the brief, were Solicitor General McGrath and
Theodore L. Thau.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Spencer Gordon argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents in No. 81.

Allen S. Hubbard argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent in No. 82.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here for the second time. In S. E. C. v.
Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80, we held that an order of
the Securities and Exchange Commission could not be
sustained on the grounds upon which that agency acted.
We therefore directed that the case be remanded to the
Commission for such further proceedings as might be appropriate. On remand, the Commission reexamined the
problem, recast its rationale and reached the same result.
The issue now is whether the Commission's action is
proper in light of the principles established in our prior
decision.
When the case was first here, we emphasized a simple
but fundamental rule of administrative law. That rule
is to the effect that a reviewing court, in dealing with a
determination -or judgment which an administrative
agency alone is authorized to make, must judge the propriety of such action solely by the grounds invoked by the
agency. If those grounds are inadequate or improper,
the court is powerless to affirm the administrative action
by substituting what it considers to be a more adequate
or proper basis. To do so would propel the court into
the domain which Congress has set aside exclusively for
the administrative agency.
We also emphasized in our prior decision an important
corollary of the foregoing rule. If the administrative
action is to be tested by the basis upon which it purports
to rest, that basis must be set forth with such clarity as to
be understandable. It will not do for a court to be com-

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

197

Opinion of the Court.

pelled to guess at the theory underlying the ageicy's
action; nor can a court be expected to chisel that which
must be precise from what the agency has left vague and
indecisive. In other words, "We must know what a decision means before the duty becomes ours to say whether it
is right or wrong." United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. &
P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499, 511.
Applying this rule and its corollary, the Court was unable to sustain the Commission's original action. The
Commission had been dealing with the reorganization of
the Federal Water Service' Corporation (Federal), a holding company registered under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 803. During the period
when successive reorganization plans proposed by the
management were before tht Commission, the officers,
directors and controlling stockholders of Federal pur-.
chased a substantial amount of Federal's preferred stock
on the over-the-counter market. Under the fourth reorganization plan, this preferred stock was to be converted
into common stock of a new' corporation; on the basis of
the purchases. of preferred stock, the management would
have received more than 10% of this new common stock.
It was frankly admitted that the management's purpose
in buying the preferred stock was to protect its interest
in the new company. It was also plain that there was
no fraud or lack of disclosure in making these purchases.
But the Commission would not approve the fourth plan
so long as the preferred stock purchased by the management was to be treated on a parity with the other preferred
stock. It felt that the officers and directors of a holding
company in process of reorganization under the Act were
fiduciaries and were under a duty not to trade in the securities of that company during the reorganization period.
8 S. E. C. 893, 915-921. And so the plan was amended
to provide that the preferred stock acquired by the management, unlike that held by others, was not to be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of :ie Court.

332 U. S.

verted into the new common stock; instead, it was to be
surrendered at cost plus dividends accumulated since the
purchase dates. As amended, the plan was approved by
the Commission over the management's objections. 10
S. E. C. 200.
The Court interpreted the Commission's order approving this amended plan as grounded solely upon judicial
authority. The Commission appeared to have treated
the pref rred stock acquired by the manage,ent in accordance with what it thought were standards theretofore
recognized by courts. If it intended to create new standards growing out of its experience in effectuating the
legislative policy, it failed to express itself with sufficient
clarity and precision to be so understood. Hence the
order was judged by the only standards clearly invoked
by the Commission. On that basis, the order could not
stand. The opinion pointed out that courts do not impose upon officers and directors of a corporation any
fiduciary duty to its stockholders which precludes them
merely because they are officers and directors, fronr buying and selling 'the corporation's stock. Nor was it felt
that the cases upon which the Commission relied established any principles of law or equity which in themselves
would be.sufficient to justify this order.
The opinion further noted that neither Congress nor the
Commissiou had promulgated any general rule proscribing
such action as the purchase of preferred stock by Federal's
management. And the only judge-made rule of equity
which might have justified the Commission's order related
to fraud or mismanagement of the reorganization by the
officers and directors, matters which were admittedly
absent in this situation.
After the case was remanded to-the Commission, Federal
Water and Gas Corp. (Federal Water), the surviving corporation under the reorganization plan, made an application for approval of an amendment to the plan to provide

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 199
194

Opinion of the Court.

for the issuance of new common stock of the reorganized
company. This stock was to be distributed to the members of Federal's management on the basis of the shares
of the old preferred stock which they had acquired during
the period of reorganization, thereby placing them in the
same position as the public holders of the old preferred
stock. The intervening members of Federal's management joined in this request. The Commission denied the
application in an order issued on February 8, 1945. Holding Company Act Release No. 5584. That order was
reversed by the Courtof Appeals, 80 U. S. App. D..C. 365,
154 F. 2d 6, which felt that our prior decision precluded
such action by the Commission.
The latest order of the Commission definitely avoids the
fatal error of relying on judicial precedents which do not
sustain it. This time, after a thorough reexamination of
the problem in light of the purposes and standards of the
Holding Company Act, the Commission has concluded that
the proposed transaction is inconsistent with the standards
of §§ 7 and 11 of the Act. It has drawn heavily upon its
accumulated experience in dealing with utility reorganizations. And it has expressed its reasons with a clarity
and thoroughness that admit of no doubt as to the underlying basis of its order.
The argument is pressed upon us, however, that the
Commission was foreclosed from taking such a step following our prior decision. It is said that, In the absence
of findings of conscious wrongdoing on the part of Federal's management, the Commission could not determine
by an order in this particular case that it was inconsistent
with the statutory standards to permit Federal's management to realize a profit through the reorganization purchases. All that it could do was to enter an order allowing an amendment to the plan so that the proposed transaction could be consummated. Under this view, the Commission would be free only to promulgate a general rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U: S.

outlawing such profits in future utility reorganizations;
but such a rule would have to be prospective ip nature
and have no retroactive effect upon the instant situation.
We rejeet this contention, for it grows out of a misapprehension of our prior decision and of the Commission's statutory duties. We held no more and no less
than that the Commission's first order was unsupportable for the reasons supplied by that agency. But when
the case left this Court, the problem whether Federal's
management should be treated equally with other preferred stockholders still lacked a final and complete
answer. It was clear that the Commission could not give
a negative answer by resort to prior judicial declarations.
And it was also clear that the Commission was not bound
by settled judicial precedents in a situation of this nature.
318 U. S. at 89. Still unsettled, however, was the answer
the Commission might give were it to bring to bear on the
facts the proper administrative and statutory considerations, a function which belongs exclusively to the Commission in the first instance. The administrative process
had taken an erroneous rather than a final turn. Hence
we carefully refrained from expressing any views as to the
propriety of an order rooted in the proper and relevant
considerations. See Siegel Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 327 U. S. 608, 613-614.
When the case was directed to be remanded to the Commission for such further proceedings as might be appropriate, it was with the thought that the Commission would
give full effect to its duties in harmony with the views we
had expressed. Ford Motor Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S.
364, 374; Federal Radio Commission v. Nelson Bros. Co.,
289 U. S. 266, 278. This obviously meant something more
than the entry of a perfunctory order giving parity treatment to the management holdings of preferred stock.
The fact that the Commission had committed a legal error
in its first disposition of the case certainly gave Federal's

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

201

Opinion of the Court.

management no vested right to receive the benefits of such
an order. See Federal Communications Cominission v.
Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S.134,145. After the
remand was made, therefore, the Commission was bound
to deal with the problem afresh, performing the function
delegated to it by Congress. It was again charged with
the duty of measuring the proposed treatment of the
management's preferred stock holdings by relevant and
proper standards. Only in that way could the legislative
policies embodied in the Act be effectuated. Cf. Labor
Boardv. Donnelly Co., 330 U. S.219, 227-228.
The absence of a general rule or regulation governing
management trading during reorganization did not affect
the Commission's duties in relation to the particular proposal before it. The Commission was asked to grant or
deny effectiveness to a proposed amendment to Federal's
reorganization plan whereby the management would be
accorded parity treatment on its holdings. It could do
that only in the form of an order, entered after a due consideration of the particular facts in light of the relevant
and proper standards. That was true regardless of
whether those standards previously had been spelled out
in a general rule or regulation. Indeed, if the Commission rightly felt that the proposed amendment was inconsistent with those standards, an order giving effect to the
amendment merely because there was no general rule or
regulation covering the matter would, be unjustified.
It is true that our prior decision explicitly recognized
the possibility that the Commission might have promulgated a general rule dealing with this problem under its
statutory rule-making powers, in which case the issue for
our consideration would have been entirely different from
that which did confront us. 318 U. S. 92-93. But we
did not mean to imply thereby that the failure of the Commission to anticipate this problem and to promulgate a
general rule withdrew all power from that agency to per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

form its statutory duty in this case. To hold that the
Commission had no alternative in this proceeding but to
approve the proposed transaction, while formulating any
general rules it might desire for'use in future cases of this
nature, would be to stultify the administrative process.
That we refuse to do.
Since the Commission, unlike a court, does have the
ability to make new law prospectively through the exercise of its rule-making powers, it has less reason to rely
upon ad hoc adjudication to formulate new standards of
conduct within the framework of the Holding Company
Act. The function of filling in the interstices of the Act
should be performed, as much as possible, through this
quasi-legislative promulgation of rules to be. applied in
the future. But any rigid requirement to that effect
would make the administrative process inflexible and incapable of dealing with many of the specialized problems
which arise. See Report of the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure in Government
Agencies, S. Doc. No. 8, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 29. Not
every principle essential to the effective administration
of a statute can or should be cast immediately into the
mold of a general rule. Some principles must await their
own development, while others must be adjusted to meet
particular, unforeseeable situations. In performing its
important functions in these respects, therefore, an administrative agency must be equipped to act either by
-general rule or by individual order. To insist upon one
form of action to the exclusion of the other is to exalt
form over necessity.
In other words, problems may arise in a case which the
administrative agency could not reasonably foresee, problems which must be solved despite the absence of a relevant
general rule. Or the agency may not have had sufficient
experience with a particular problem to warrant rigidifying its tentative judgment into a hard and fast rule. Or

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

203

Opinion of the Court.

the problem may be so specialized and varying in nature
as to be impossible of capture within the boundaries of
a general rule. In those situations, the agency must retain
power to deal with the problems on a case-to-case basis
if the administrative process is to be effective. There is
thus a very definite place for the case-by-case evolution of
statutory standards. And the choice made between proceeding by general rule or by individual, ad hoc litigation
is one that lies primarily in the informed discretion of
the administrative agency. See Columbia Broadcasting
System v. UnitedStates, 316 U. S. 407,421.
Hence we refuse to say that the Commission, which
had not previously been confronted with the problem
of management trading. during reorganization, was forbidden from utilizing this particular proceeding for announcing and applying a new standard of conduct. Cf.
Federal Trade Commission v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U.. S.
304. That such action might have a retroactive effect
was not necessarily fatal to its validity. Every case of
first impression has a retroactive effect, whether the new
principle is announced by a court or by an administrative
agency. But such retroactivity must be balanced against
the mischief of pioducing a result which is contrary to
a statutory design or to legal and equitable principles.
If that mischief is greater than the ill effect of the retroactive application of a new standard, it is not the type
of retroactivity which is condemned by law. See Addison
v. Holly Hill Co., 322 U S. 607,620.
And so in this case, the fact that the Commission's
order might retroactively prevent Federal's management
from securing the profits and control which were the
objects of the preferred -tock purchases may well be outweighed by the dangers inherent in such purchases from
the statutory standpoint. If that is true, the argument
of retroactivity becomes nothing more than a claim that
the Commission lacks power to enforce the standards of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

the Act in this proceeding. Such a claim deserves
rejection.
The problem in this case thus resolves itself into a
determination of whether the Commission's action in denying effectiveness to the proposed amendment to the
Federal reorganization plan can be justified on the basis
upon which it clearly rests. As we have noted, the Commission avoided placing its sole reliance on inapplicable
judicial precedents. Rather it has derived its conclusions
from the particular facts in the case, its general experience
in reorganization matters and its informed view of statutory requirements. It is those matters which are the
guide for our review.
The Commission concluded that it could not find that
the reorganization plan, if amended as proposed, would
be "fair and equitable to the persons affected thereby"
within the meaning of § 11 (e) of the Act, under which
the reorganization was taking place. Its view was that
the amended plan would involve the issuance of securities
on terms "detrimental to the public interest or the interest of investors" contrary to §§ 7 (d) (6) and 7 (e), and
would result in an "unfair or inequitable distribution of
voting power" among the Federal security holders within
the meaning of § 7 (e). It was led to this result "not
by proof that the interveners [Federal's management]
committed acts of conscious wrongdoing but by the character of the conflicting interests created by the interveners' program of stock purchases carried out while plans
for reorganization were under consideration."
The Commission noted that Federal's management
controlled a large multi-state utility system and that its
influence permeated down to the lowest tier of operating
companies. The financial, operational and accounting
policies of the parent and its subsidiaries were therefore
under the management's strict control. The broad range
of business judgments vested in Federal's management

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

205

Opinion of the Court.

multiplied opportunities for affecting the market price
of Federal's outstanding securities and made the exercise
of judgment on any matter a subject of greatest significance to investors. Added to these normal managerial
powers, the Commission pointed out that a holding company management obtains special powers in the course
of a voluntary reorganization under § 11 (e) of the
Holding Company Act. The management represents the
stockholders in such a reorganization, initiates the proceeding, draws up and files the plan, and can file amendments thereto at any time. These additional powers may
introduce conflicts between the management's normal
interests and its responsibilities to the various classes of
stockholders which it represents in the reorganization.
Moreover, because of its representative status, the management has special opportunities to obtain advance
information of the attitude of the Commission.
Drawing upon its experience, the Commission indicated
that all these normal and special powers of the holding
company management during the course of a § 11 (e) reorganization placed in the management's command "a
formidable battery of devices that would enable it, if it
should choose to use them selfishly, to affect in material
degree the ultimate allocation of new securities among
the various existing classes, to influence the market for
its own gain, and to manipulate or obstruct the reorganization required by the mandate of the statute." In that
setting, the Commission felt that a management program
of stock purchase would give rise to the temptation and
the opportunity to shape the reorganization proceeding
so as to. encourage public selling on the market at low
prices. No management could engage in such a program
without raising serious questions as to whether its personal
interests had not opposed its duties "to exercise disinterested judgment in matters pertaining to subsidiaries'
accounting, budgetary and dividend policies, to present

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

publicly an unprejudiced financial picture of the enterprise, and to effectuate a fair and feasible plan
expeditiously."
The Commission further felt that its answer should
be the same even where proof of intentional wrongdoing
on the management's part is lacking. Assuming a conflict
of interests, the Commission thought that the absence
of actual misconduct is immaterial; injury to the public
investors and to the corporation may result just as readily.
"Questionable transactions may be explained away, and
an abuse of investors and the administrative process may
be perpetrated without evil intent, yet the injury will
remain." Moreover, the Commission was of the view that
the delays and the difficulties involved in probing the
mental processes and personal integrity of corporate officials do not warrant any distinction on the basis of evil
intent, the plain fact being "that an absence of unfairness
or detriment in cases of this sort- would be practically
impossible to establish by proof."
Turning to the facts in this case, the Commission noted
the salient fact that the primary object of Federal's management in buying the preferred stock was admittedly
to obtain the voting power that was accruing to that
stock through the reorganization and to profit from the
investment therein. That stock had been purchased in
the market at prices that were depressed in relation to
what the management anticipated would be, and what
in fact was, the earning and asset value of its reorganization equivalent. The Commission admitted that the good
faith and personal integrity of this management were
not in question; but as to the maiagement's justification
of its motives, the Commission concluded that it was
merely trying to "deny that they made selfish use of
their powers during the period when their conflict of
interest, vis-a-vis public investors, was in existence owing
to their purchase program." Federal's management had

SECURItIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 207
194

Opinion of the Court.

thus placed itself in a position where it was "peculiarly
susceptible to temptation to conduct the reorganization
for personal gain rather than the public good" and where
its desire to make advantageous purchases of stock could
have an important influence, even though subconsciously,
upon many of the decisions to be made in the course of
the reorganization. Accordingly, the Commission felt
that all of its general considerations of the problem were
applicable to this case.
'The scope of our review of an administrative order
wherein a new principle is announced and applied is no
different from that which pertains to ordinary administrative action. The wisdom of the principle adopted
is none of our concern. See Board of Trade v. United
States, 314 U. S. 534, 548. Our duty is at an end when
it becomes evident that the Commission's action is based
upon substantial evidence and is consistent with the authomty granted by Congress. See National Broadcasting
Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190, 224.
We are unable to say in this case that the Commission
erred in reaching the result it did. The facts being undisputed, we are free to disturb the Commission's conclusion only if it lacks any rational and statutory
foundation. In that connection, the Commission has
made a thorough examination of the problem, utilizing
statutory standards and its own accumulated -experience
with reorganization matters. In essence, it has made
what we indicated in our prior opinion would be an informed, expert judgment on the, problem. It has taken
into account "those more subtle factors in the marketing
of utility company securities that gave rise to the very
grave evils which the Public Utility Holding [Company]
Act of 1935 was designed to correct" and has relied upon
the fact that "Abuse of corporate position, influence, and
access to information may raise questions so subtle that
the law can deal with them effectively only by prohi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

bitions not concerned with the fairness of a particular
transaction." 318 U. S. at 92.
Such factors may properly be considered by the Commission in determining whether to approve a plan of
reorganization of a utility holding company, or an amendment to such a plan. The "fair and equitable" rule of
§ 11 (e) and the standard of what is "detrimental to the
public interest or the interest of investors or consumers"
under § 7 (d) (6) and § 7 (e) were inserted by the framers
of the Act in order that the Commission might have broad
powers to protect the various interests at stake. 318 U. S.
at 90-91. The application of those criteria, whether in
the form of a particular order or a general regulation,
necessarily requires the use of informed discretion by the
Commission. The very breadth of the statutory language
precludes a reversal of the Commission's judgment save
where it has plainly abused its discretion in these matters.
See United States v. Lowden, 308 U. S. 225; 1. C. C. v.
Railway Labor Assn., 315 U. S.373. Such an abuse is
not present in this case.
The purchase by a holding company management of
that company's securities during the course of a reorganization may well be thought to be so fraught with
danger as to warrant a denial of the benefits and profits
accruing to the management. The possibility that such
a stock purchase program will result in detriment to the
public investors is not a fanciful one. The influence that
program may have upon the important decisions to be
mad by the management during reorganization is not
inconsequential. Since the officers and directors occupy
fiduciary positions during this period, their actions are to
be held to a higher standard than that imposed upon the
general investing public. There is thus a reasonable
basis for a judgment that the benefits and profits accruing to the management from the stock purchases should
be prohibited, regardless of the good faith involved. And

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP.
194

209

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

it is a judgment that can justifiably be reached in terms
of fairness and equitableness, to the end that the interests of the public, the investors and the consumers
might be protected. But it is a judgment based upon
public policy, a judgment which Congress has indicated
is of the type for the Commission to make.
The Commission's conclusion here rests squarely in that
area where administrative judgments are entitled to the
greatest amount of weight by appellate courts. It is the
product of administrative experience, appreciation of the
complexities of the problem, realization of the statutory.
policies, and responsible treatment of the uncontested
facts. It is the type of judgment which administrative
agencies are best equipped to make and which justifies
the use of the administrative process. See Republic
Aviation Corp. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S. 793, 800.
Whether we agree or disagree with the result reached, it
is an allowable judgment which we cannot disturb.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON

concurs in the result.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

took

no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
dissent, but there is not now opportunity for a response
adequate to the issues raised by the Court's opinion.
These concern the rule of law in its application to the
administrative process and the function of this Court in
reviewing administrative action. Accordingly, the detailed grounds for dissent will be filed in due course.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.*

The Court by this present decision sustains the identical
administrative order which only recently it held invalid.
*Filed October 6, 1947.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

S. E. C. v. Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80. As the Court correctly notes, the Commission has only "recast its rationale
and reached the same result." (Par. 1.)' There being
no change in the order, no additional evidence in the
record and no amendment of relevant legislation, it
is clear that there has been a shift in attitude between
that of the controlling membership of the Court when the
case was first here and that of those who have the power
of decision on this second review.
I feel constrained to disagree with the reasoning offered
to rationalize this shift. It makes judicial review of administrative orders a hopeless formality for the litigant,
even where granted to him by Congress. It reduces the
judicial process in such cases to a mere feint. While the
opinion does not have the adherence of a majority of the
full Court, if its pronouncements should become governing principles they would, in practice, put most administrative orders over and above the law.
I.
The essential facts are few and are not in dispute2 This
corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a voluntary plan of reorganization. While the
reorganization proceedings were pending sixteen officers
and directors bought on the open market about 7 /% of
the corporation's preferred stock. Both the Commission
and the Court admit that these purchases were not forbidden by any law, judicial precedent, regulation or rule
of the Commission. Nevertheless, the Commission has
1 For

convenience of reference, I have numbered consecutively the

paragraphs of the Court's opinion, and cite quotations accordingly.
2 The facts and the law of the case generally are fully set forth in
the first opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Groner of the Court of Appeals
which reversed the Commission's order (75 U. S. App. D. C. 374, 128
F. 2d 303) and in his second opinion (80 U .3 App. D. C. 365, 154 F.
2d 6) again reversing the Commission's ordex after it had "recast

its rationale."

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 211
194

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

ordered these individuals to surrender their shares to the
corporation at cost, plus 4% interest, and the Court now
approves that order.
It is helpful, before considering whether this order
is authorized by law, to reflect on what it is and what
it is not. It is not conceivably a discharge Qf the Commission's duty to determine whether a proposed plan of
reorganization would be "fair and equitable." It has
nothing to do with the corporate structure, or the classes
and amounts of stock, or voting rights or dividend preferences. It does not remotely affect the impersonal financial or legal factors of the plan. It is a personal deprivation denying particular persons the right to continue to
own their stock and to exercise its privileges. Other persons who bought at the same time and price in the open
market would be allowed to keep and convert their stock.
Thus, the order is in no sense an exercise of the function
of control over the terms and relations of the corporate
securities.
Neither is the order one merely to regulate the future
use of property. It literally takes valuable property away
from its lawful owners for the benefit of other private
parties without full compensation and the Court expressly approves the taking. It says that the stock
owned by these persons is denied conversion along with
similar stock owned by others; "instead, it was to be
surrendered at cost plus dividends accumulated since the
purchase dates." (Par. 5.) It should be noted that this
formula was subsequently'altered to read "cost plus 4%
interest." That this basis was less than its value is recognized, for the Court says "That stock had been purchased
in the market at prices that were depressed in relation tr
what the management anticipated would be, and what, .
fact was, the earning and asset value of its reorganizati equivalent." (Par. 24.) Admittedly, the value
cost, and interest on it simply is taken from the owilers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

without compensation. No such power has ever been
confirmed in any administrative body.
It should also be noted that neither the Court nor the
Commission purports to adjudge a forfeiture of this property as a consequence of sharp dealing or breach of trust.
The Court says, "The Commission admitted that the good
faith and personal integrity of this management were not
in question; ....
"
(Par. 24.) And again, "It was
frankly admitted that the management's purpose in buying the preferred stock was to protect its interest in the
new company. It was also plain that there was no fraud or
lack of disclosure in making these purchases." (Par. 4.)
II.
The reversal of the position of this Court is due to a
fundamental change in prevailing philosophy. The basic
assumption of the earlier opinion as therein stated was,
"But before transactionsotherwise legal can be outlawed
or denied their usual business consequences, they must
fall under the ban of some standardsof conduct prescribed
by an agency of government authorized to prescribe such
standards . . . ." S. E. C. v. Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80,
92-93. The basic assumption of the present opinion is
stated thus: "The absence of a general rule or regulation
governing management trading during reorganizationdid
not affect the Commission's duties in relation to the particular proposal before it." (Par 13.) This puts in
juxtaposition the two conflicting philosophies which produce opposite results in the same case and on the same
facts. The difference between the first and the latest decision of the Court is thus simply the difference between
holding that administrative orders must have a basis in
law and a holding that absence of a legal basis is no ground
on which courts may annul them.
As there admittedly is no law or regulation to support
this order, we peruse the Court's opinion diligently to find

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 213
194

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

on what grounds it is now held that the Court of Appeals,
on pain of being reversed for error, was required to stamp
this order with its approval.. We find but one. That
is the principle of judicial deference to administrative
experience. That argument is five times stressed in as
many different contexts, and I quote -just enough to
identify the instances: "The Commission," it says, "has
drawn heavily upon its accumulated experience in dealing
with utility reorganizations."

(Par. 9.)

"Rather it has

derived its conclusions from the particular facts in the
case, its general experience in reorganization matters and
its informed view of statutory requirements." (Par. 19.)
"Drawing upon its experience, the Commission indicated . . . ," etc.

(Par. 22.)

".

.

. the Commission has

made a thorough examination of the problem, utilizing
statutory standards and its own accumulated experience
with reorganization matters." (Par. 26.) And finally,
of the order the Court says, "It is the product of administrative experience," etc. (Par. 29.)
What are we to make of this reiterated deference to
"administrative experience" when in another context the
Court says, "Hence, we refuse to say that the Commission, which had not previously been confronted with the
problem of management trading, during reorganization,
was forbidden from utilizing this particular proceeding
for announcing and. applying a new standardof conduct."?
(Par. 17.) (Emphasis supplied.)
The Court's reasoning adds up to this: The Commission must be sustained because of its accumulated experience in solving a problem with which it had never before
been confronted!
Of course, thus to uphold the Commission by professing
to find that it has enunciated a "new standard of conduct" brings the Court squarely against'the invalidity
of retroactive law-making. But the Court does not
falter. "That such action might have a retroactive effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

was not necessarily fatal to its validity." (Par. 17.)
"But such retroactivity must be balanced against the
mischief of producing a result which is contrary to a statutory design or to legal and equitable principles." (Par.
17.) Of course, if what these parties did really was condemned by "statutory design" or "legal and equitable
principles," it could be stopped without resort to a new
rule and there would be no retroactivity to condone. But
if it had been the Court's view that some law already prohibited the purchases, it would hardly have been necessary
three sentenceg earlier to hold that the Commission was
not prohibited "from utilizing this particular proceeding
for announcing and applying a new standardof conduct.'
(Par. 17.) (Emphasis supplied.)
I give up. Now I realize fully what Mark Twain meant
when he said, "The more you explain it, the more I don't
understand it."
III.

But one does not need to comprehend the processes by
which other minds reach a given result in order to estimate the practical consequences of their pronouncement
upon judicial review of administrative orders.
If it is of no consequence that no rule of law be existent to support an administrative order, and the Court
of Appeals is obliged to defer to administrative experience
and 'o sustain a Commission's power merely because it
has been asserted and exercised, of what use is it to print
a record or briefs in the case, or to hear argument? Administrative experience always is present, at least to the
degree that it is here, and would always dictate a like
deference by this Court to an assertion of administrative
power. Must the reviewing court, as this Court does in
this opinion, support the order on a presumptive or imputed experience even though the Court is obliged to
discredit such experience in the very same opinion? Is

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 215
194

JACKsON, J., dissenting.

fictitious experience to be conclusive in matters of law and
particularly in the interpretation of statutes, as the
Court's opinion now intimates, or just in fact finding which
has been the function which the Court has heretofore sustained upon the argument' of administrative
experiince?
I suggest that administrative experience is of weight in
judicial review only to this point-it is a persuasive reason
for deference to the Commission in the exercise of its discretionary powers under and within the law. It cannot be invoked to support action outside of the law.
And what action is, and what is not, within the law
must be determined by courts, when authorized to review, no matter how much deference is due to the
agency's fact finding. Surely an administrative agency is
not a law unto itself, but the Court does not really face
up to the fact that this is the justification it is offering
for sustaining the Commission action.
Even if the Commission had, as the Court says, utilized
this case to announce a new legal standard of conduct,
there would be hurdles to be cleared, but we need not
dwell on them now. Because to promulgate a general
rule of law, either by regulation or by case law, is something the Commission expressly declined to do. It did
not previously promulgate, and it does not by this order
profess to promulgate, any rule or regulation to prohibit
such purchases absolutely or under stated conditions.
On the other hand, its position is that no such rule or
standard would be fair and equitable in all cases."
The Commission, speaking of such a rule, appends the following•
note to its opinion:
"Without flexibility the rule might itself operate -unfairly. Limitation to cost appears appropriate here, but would be inappropriate
in a case where the cost of the security purchased was in excess of
its reorganization vilue, and in some instances cash payment by the

company vwould not be feasible. In addition, special treatment of
any sort might be inappropriate for incidental purchases not made

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

"332 U. S.

IV.
Whether, as matter of policy, corporate managers during reorganization should be prohibited from buying or
selling its stock, is not a question for us to decide. But
it is for us to decide whether, so long as no law or regulation prohibits them from buying, their purchases may, be
forfeited, or not, in the discretion of the Commission.
If such a power exists in words of the statute or in their
implication, it would be possible to point it out and thus
end the case. Instead, the Court admits that there was no
law prohibiting these purchases when they were made,
or at any time thereafter. And, except for this decision,
there is none now.
The truth is that in this decision the Court approves
the Commission's assertion of power to govern the matter
without law, power to force surrender of stock so purchased whenever it will, and power also to overlook such
acquisitions if it so chooses. The reasons which will lead
it to take one course as against the other remain locked
in its own breast, and it has not and apparently does not
intend to commit them to any rule or regulation. This
administrative authoritarianism, this power to decide
without law, is what the Court seems to approve in so
many words: "The absence of a general rule or regulation
as part of a program in contemplation of reorganization benefits.
In this connection, we wish to emphasize that our concern here is

not primarily with the normal corporate powers which make it possible for officers and directors to influence the market for their own
gain, in the absence of reorganization, by a choice of dividend policies,
accounting practices, published reports, and the like. The questions
of fairness and detriment here presented arise before us in the context
of a capital readjustment. At that point our scrutiny is called for,
and that our scrutiny is to be vigilant cannot be doubted. See
Appendix to Sen. Rep. No. 621 (74th Cong., 1st Sess.) on S. 2796,
at p. 58, quoted supra."

SECURITIES COMM'N v. CHENERY CORP. 217
194

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

governing management trading during reorganization
did not affect the Commission's duties . . . ." (Par. 13).
This seems to me to undervalue and to belittle the place
of law, even in the system of administrative justice. It
calls to mind Mr. Justice Cardozo's statement that "Law
as a guide to conduct is reduced to the level of mere
futility if it is unknown and unknowable."'
V.
The Court's averment concerning this order, that "It
is the type of judgment which administrative agencies are
best equipped to make and which justifies the use of the
administrative process," (Par. 29) is the first instance in
which the administrative process is sustained by reliance
on that disregard of law which enemies of the process have
always alleged to be its principal evil. It is the first encouragement this Court has given to conscious lawlessness
as a permissible rule of administrative action. This decision is an ominous one to those, who believe that men
should be governed by laws -that they may ascertain and
abide by, and which will guide the action of those in
authority as well as of those who are subject to
authority.'
I have long urged, and still believe, that the administrative process deserves fostering in our system as an expeditious and nontechnical method of applying law in special4 The Growth of the Law, p. 3.

5 On the same day, the Court denied its own authority to recognize
and enforce, without Congressional action, an unlegislated liability
much less novel than the one imposed here, and that in the field of
tort law which traditionally has developed by decisional rather than
by legislative process. The result is to confirm in an executive agency
a discretion to adt outside of established law that goes beyond any
judicial discretion as well as beyond any legislative delegation. Compare UnitedStates v. StandardOil Co., 332 U. S. 301.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

ized fields.' I can not agree that it be used, and I think
its continued effectiveness is endangered when it is used,
as a method of dispensing with law in those fields.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. YELLOW CAB CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1035.

Argued May 7, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

1. Allegations of a complaint filed in a federal district court pursuant
to § 4 of the Sherman Antitrust Act to prevent and restrain the
defendants from violating §§ 1 and 2 of the Act, charging a combination and conspiracy to restrain and to monopolize interstate
trade and commerce in the sale of motor vehicles for use as taxicabs to the principal cab operating companies in Chicago, Pittsburgh, New York City and Minneapolis, held sufficient to state a
claim upon which relief might be granted. Pp. 220-228.
(a) A conspiracy to control the purchase of taxicabs by the
principal operating companies in Chicago, Pittsburgh, New York
City and Minneapolis, whereby they purchase their cabs exclusively from a Michigan manufacturer and are prevented from
purchasing from other manufacturers, is in restraint of interstate
commerce. Pp. 224-225,226.
(b) In determining whether the complaint charges a violation
of § 1 or § 2 of the Sherman Act, it is enough if some appreciable
part of interstate commerce is affected by the restraint or
monopoly. P. 225.
(c) Interstate purchases of replacements of some 5,000 licensed
taxicabs in four cities is an appreciable amount of commerce.
P. 225.
6 See statement before House of Delegates, American Bar Association, 1939. (1939 Proceedings, House of Delegates, XXV A. B. A.
Journal 95.) Also see Report as Attorney General to President
Roosevelt recommending veto of Walter-Logan Bill-made part of.
veto message, Vol. 86, Part 12, Congressional Record, 76th Congress,
3d Session, p. 13943.

