CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 954. Argued May 5-6, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. Section 506 (a) (1) of the Communications Act, making it a crime,
by the use or threat of use of force, violence, intimidation, or duress,
to coerce, compel or constrain or attempt to coerce, compel or
constrain a radio-broadcasting licensee to employ or agree to
employ, in connection with the conduct of the licensee's broadcasting business, any person or persons "in excess of the number
of employees needed by such licensee to perform actual services,"
is not so vague, indefinite or uncertain as to violate the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 5-8.
(a) This question was properly presented to this Court for a
decision on an appeal by the Government under the Criminal
Appeals Act from a decision of a District Court -dismissing, on
the sole ground that the section was unconstitutional, an information charging a violation in substantially the statutory language.
Pp. 5-6.
(b) The contention that persons of ordinary intelligence would
be unable to know when their compulsive actions would force a
person against his will to hire employees he did not need, cannot
be sustained. Pp. 6-7.
(c) When measured by common understanding and practices,
the language of the statute provides an adequate warning as to
what conduct falls under its ban, and marks boundaries sufficiently
distinct for judges and juries fairly to administer the law in accordance with the will of Congress; and the Constitution requires no
more. Pp. 7-8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

332 U. S.

2. It does not contravene the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment by denying equal protection of the laws to radio-broadcasting
employees as a class--even though it provides no punishment for
employers for violating the policy and leaves other classes of employees free to engage in the practices forbidden to radio workers.
Pp. 8-9.
(a) This question was properly presented to this Court for a
decision on an appeal by the Government under the Criminal
Appeals Act from a decision of the District Court dismissing an
information on the sole ground that the statute is unconstitutional
as written. P. 8.
(b) It is not within the province of this Court to say that,
because Congress has prohibited some practices within its power
to prohibit, it must prohibit all within its power. Pp. 8-9.
3. On its face, the statute does not contravene the First Amendment
by abridging freedom of speech; but, since the statute does not
mention picketing and it is uncertain on the record in this case
whether it would have been applied so as to prohibit peaceful
-picketing, the question whether such an application would violate
the First Amendment is not before this Court in a form appropriate
for decision. Pp. 9-12.
4. On its face, the -statute does not violate the provisions .of the
Thirteenth Amendment prohibiting slavery and involuntary servitude; but no decision is made on the question whether some possible application of it to particular persons in particular sets of
circumstances would violate the Thirteenth Amendment, since
questions of that kind are not presented by the record in this case
in a form appropriate for decision by this Court. Pp. 12-13.
5. The Criminal Appeals Act does not require this Court to pass on
constitutional questions prematurely decided by a district court's
dismissal of an information which had not been tested by a motion
to strike or for a bill of particulars. P. 10.
68 F. Supp. 845, reversed and remanded.

The District Court dismissed a criminal information
charging respondent with violation of § 506 (a) (1) of
the Communications Act, on the ground that the section
was unconstitutional. 68 F. Supp. 845. On direct appeal 'by the Government under the Criminal Appeals Act,
18 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946) § 682, reversed and remanded,
n. 13.

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
Opinion of the Court.

Assistant to the Attorney. General McGregor and Robert L. Stern argued the cause for the United States. With
them on the brief was* Acting Solicitor General Washington.
Joseph A. Padway and Henry Kaiser argued the cause
for appellee. With them on the brief was Herbert S.
Thatcher.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The District Court dismissed a criminal information
filed against the respondent, James C. Petrillo, on the
ground that the statute on which the information was
founded was unconstitutional. 68 F. Supp. 845. The case
is here on direct appealby the Government as authorized
by the Criminal Appeals Act. '18 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946)
§ 682. The information charged a violation of the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 1102, as amended
by an Act of April 16, 1946. 60 Stat. 89. The specific
provisions of the Amendment charged to have been
violated read:
"SEc. 506. (a) It shall be unlawful, by the use or
express or implied threat of the use of force, violence,
intimidation, or duress', or by the use or express or
implied threat of the use of other means, to coerce,
compel or constrain or attempt to coerce, compel, or
constrain a licensee"(1) to employ or agree to employ, 'in connection
with the conduct of the broadcasting business of such
licensee, any person or persons in excess of the number of employees needed by such licensee to perform
actual services; or
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

"(d) Whoever willfully violates any provision of
subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall, upon con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

viction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not
more than one year or by a fine of not more than
$1,000, or both." 60 Stat. 89.
The information alleged that a radio broadcasting company, holding a federal license, had, for several years immediately preceding, employed "certain persons who were
sufficient and adequate in number to perform all of the
actual services needed . . . in connection with the conduct of its broadcasting business." The information further charged that the respondent, Petrillo, "wilfully, by
the use of force, intimidation, duress and by the use of
other means, did attempt to coerce, compel and constrain
said licensee to employ and agree to employ, in connection
with the conduct of its radio broadcasting business, three
additional persons not needed by said licensee to perform
actual services .... "
The coercion was allegedly accomplished in the
following manner:
"(1) By directing and causing three musicians,
members of the Chicago Federation of Musicians,
theretofore employed by the said licensee in connection with the conduct of its broadcasting business, to
discontinue their employment with said licensee;
"(2) By directing and causing said three employees and other persons, members of the Chicago
Federation of Musicians, not to accept employment
by said licensee; and,
"(3) By placing and causing to be placed a person
as a picket in front of the place of business of said
licensee."
The only challenge to the information was a motion
to dismiss on the ground that the Act on which the information was based (a) abridges freedom of speech in
contravention of the First Amendment; (b) is repugnant\
to the Fifth Amendment because it defines a crime in;

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
Opinion of the Court.

terms that are excessively vague, and denies equal protection of the law and liberty of contract; (c) imposes
involuntary servitude in violation of the Thirteenth
Amendment.' The District Court dismissed the information, holding that the 1946 Amendment on which it
was based violates the First, Fifth, and Thirteenth
Amendments.
Two general principles which concern our disposition of
appeals involving constitutional questions have special
application to this case: We have consistently refrained
from passing on the constitutionality of a fttute until a
case involving it has reached a stage where the'decision of
a precise constitutional issue is a necessity. The reasons
underlying this principle and illustrations of the strictness
with which it has been applied appear in the opinion of
the Court in Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S.
549, 568, and cases there collected. And in reviewing a
direct appeal from a District Court under the Criminal
Appeals Act, supra, our review is limited to the validity
or construction of the contested statute. For "The Government's appeal does not open the whole case." United
States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188,193.
First. One holding of the District Court was that, as
contended here, the statute is repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment because its words, "number of employees needed by such licensee," are so vague,
indefinite and uncertain that "persons of ordinary intelligence cannot in advance tell whether a certain action or
course of conduct would be within its prohibition .. .."
The information here, up to the place where it specifically
charges the particular means used to coerce the licensee,
substantially employs this statutory language. And the
motion to dismiss on the ground of vagueness and indefiAnother ground, not argued here, was that the Act represents an
exercise of power by Congress not delegated to the United States.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

niteness squarely. raises the question of whether the seclion invoked inthe indictment is void in toto, barring
all further actions *under' it, in this, and every other case.
Cf. United States v.' Thqmpson, 251 U. S. 407, 412.
Many questions of a siatute's constitutionalityoas applied
can best await the refinement of .the issues by pleading,
construction of the challenged statute and pleadings,
and, sometimes, proof.. Rescue Army v. Municipal Court;
supra; Watson v. Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 402. Borden's
Company v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 204, 210, and concurring opinionat p. 213, But no refinement or clarification of issues which we can reasonably anticipate
would bring into better focus the question of whether
the contested section is wrlitten so vaguely and indefinit !'y.
that one whose conduct it affected could only guess what
it meant. Consequently, since this phase of the appeal
raises a question of validity of a statute within ourjurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals Act, supra, and is ripe
for our decision, we turn to the merits of the contention.
We could not sustain this provision of the Act if we
agreed with the contentiqn that persons of ordinary intelligence would be unable'.to know when their'compulsive
actions would .force a person .against his will to hire employees he-did not need. Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391; Lanzettav. New Jersey, 306
U. S. 451. But we do not igree. Of course, as respondent 'points out, there are many factors that might be
considered in determining how many employees are
needed on a job. But the same thing may be said about
most questions which must be.submitted toa fact-finding
tribunal in order to enforce statutes. Certainly,. an employer's statements as to the number, of employees
"needed" is not conclusive as to that question. It, like
the alleged wilfullness of a defendant, must be decided
in the light of all the evidence.

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

Clearer and more precise language might have been
framed by Congress to express what it meant by "number
of employees needed." But none occurs to us, nor has
any better language been suggested, effectively to carry
out what appears to have been the Congressional purpose.
The argument really seems to be that it is impossible for
a jury or court ever. to determine how many employees a
business needs, and that, therefore, no statutory language
could meet the problem Congress had in mind. If this
argument should be accepted, the result would be that no
legislature could make it an offense for a person to compel
another to hire employees, no matter how unnecessary
they were, and however desirable a legislature might consider suppression of the practice to be.
The Constitution presents no such insuperable obstacle
to legislation. We think that the language Congress used
provides an adequate warning as to what conduct falls
under its ban, and marks boundaries sufficiently distinct
for judges and juries fairly to administer the law in accordance with the will of Congress. That there may be
marginal cases in which it is difficult to determine the side
of the line on which a particular fact situation falls is no
sufficient reason to hold the language too ambiguous to
define a criminal offense. Robinson v. United States, 324
U. S.282, 285-286. It would strain the requirement for
certainty in criminal law standards too near the breaking
point to say that it was impossible judicially to determine whether a person knew when he was wilfully
attempting to compel another to hire unneeded employees.
See Screws v. United States, 325 U. S.91; United States
v. Ragen, 314 U. S. 513, 522, 52 , 525. The Constitution has erected procedural safeguards to protect against
conviction for crime except for violation- of laws which
have clearly defined conduct thereafter to be punished;
but the Constitution does not require impossible stand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

ards. The language here challenged conveys sufficiently
definite warning as to the proscribed conduct when
measured by common understanding and practices. The
Constitution requires no more.
Second. It is contended that the statute denies equal
protection of the laws to radio-broadcasting employees as
a class, and, for this reason, violates the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. This contention, raised by the
motion to dismiss, and sustained by the District Court
as a ground for holding the statute unconstitutional as
written, is properly before us, and we reach this equal
protection ground, for the same reason that we decided
the question of whether the section was unconstitutionally
vague and indefinite.
In support of this contention it is first argued that
if Congress concluded that employment by broadcasting companies of unneeded workers was detrimental
to interstate commerce, in order to be consistent, it
should have provided for the punishment of employers,
as well as employees, who violate that policy.! Secondly, it is argued, the Act violates due process because'
it singles out broadcasting employees for regulation while
leaving other classes of employees free to engage in the
very practices forbidden to radio workers. But it is not
within our province to say that, because Congress has prohibited some practices within its power to prohibit, it must
prohibit all within its power. Consequently, if Congress
believes that there are employee practices in the radio
industry which injuriously affect interstate commerce, and
directs its prohibitions against those practices, we could
not set aside its legislation even if we were persuaded that
employer practices also required regulation. See Labor
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 46.
' The Act does not prohibit radio broadcasters from voluntarily
hiring more employees than they need.

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor could we strike down such legislation, even if we
believed that as a matter of policy it would have been
wiser not to enact the legislation or to extend the prohibitions over a wider or narrower area. Here Congress
aimed its law directly against one practice-compelling a
broadcasting company to hire unneeded workers. There
is nothing novel about laws to prohibit some persons from
compelling other persons to act contrary to their desires.
Whatever may be the limits of the power of Congress that
do not apply equally to all classes, groups, and persons,
see Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 584, we
are satisfied that Congress has not transgressed those
'imits in the provisions of this statute which are here
tttacked. Third. Respondent contends here, and the District
Court has held, that the statute abridges freedom of
speech by making peaceful picketing a crime. It is important to note that the statute does not mention picketing, peaceful or violent. The proposed application of
the statute to picketing, therefore, does iot derive from
any specific prohibition written into the statute against
peaceful picketing. Rather it comes from the information's charge that respondent attempted to compel the
licensee to hire unneeded employees by placing "a picket
in front of the place of business of [the] . . . licensee."

Yet the respondent's motion to dismiss was made only
on the ground that the statute, as written, contravenes
the First Amendment. In ruling on this motion, the District Court assumed that because "there [was] in this case
no charge of violence . . . the placing of a picket must be
regarded . . . as peaceful picketing." From this assump-

tion, it concluded that "the application [of the statute]
here sought to be made violates the First Amendment
by its restriction upon freedom of speech by peaceful
picketing." Thus, rather than holding the statute as
written to be an unconstitutional violation of the First

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Amendment, the District Court ruled (,a the statute as
it was proposed to be applied by the information as it
then read.
We consider it inappropriate to reach the merits of this
constitutional question now. As we have pointed out, we
have consistently said that we would refrain from passing
on the constitutionality of statutes in advance of the necessity to do so. And the provisions for direct appeal
from District Courts of certain criminal cases do not require us to pass on constitutional questions prematurely
decided by a district court's dismissal of an information.
The information here, up to the place where it alleges
the use of particular coercive means, charges in substantially the language of the statute that respondent coerced
the licensee. The information's charges up to this point
constitute a sufficient basis for a challenge to the statute
on the ground that it contravenet the Constitution.
Whether this part of the information, or the information
as a whole, was adequate definitely to inform the respondent of the nature of the charge against him is another
question. See United States v. Lepowitch, 318 U. S. 702,
704; Potter v. United States, 155 U. S. 438; cf. United
States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483. Had the District Court
postponed ruling on the First Amendment question raised
by the motion to dismiss, or had it denied the motion,
respondent could have sought a bill of particulars, apart
from attacking the constitutionality of the Act. See
Husty v. United States, 282 U. S. 694, 702; Bartell v.
United States, 227 U. S. 427, 433-434; Dunbar v. United
States, 156 U. S. 185, 192. So also, if the additional allegations describing the means used to accomplish the
proscribed purbose were not definite enough for the court
to determine whether they were sufficient in law to charge
an offense, and if such allegations were not mere surplusage, see United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, 310 U. S. 150, 222, a challenge could have been

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

made to the information, see United States v. Hess, supra,
at 487-488, as distinguished from a challenge to the
statute on which it rested. In that event, and upon a
holding of insufficiency of the information, appeal by the
United States would have properly gone, under the Criminal Appeals Act, supra, to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and if inappropriately brought here, that Act, as amended,
56 Stat. 271, would have required us to transfer the cause
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. But no such challenge
was made to the information.
We therefore have a situation in which we are urged
to strike down a statute as violative of the constitutional
guarantees of free speech when the statute has not been,
and might never be, applied in such manner as to raise
the question respondent asks us to decide. For the gist of
the offense here charged in the statute and in the information is that respondent "wilfully, by the use of force,
intimidation, duress and by the use of other means, did
attempt to coerce, compel and constrain" ' the licensee to
hire unneeded employees. If the allegations that this
prohibited result was attempted to be accomplished by
picketing are so broad as to include action which either is
not coercive, compelling or constraining, within the statute's meaning, or could not be constitutionally held to be,
the trial court would be free, on motion of the respondent,
to strike the particular allegations if they are surplusage.
Rules of Criminal .Procedure, § 7 (d). Or the Government might amend the information "at any time before
verdict or finding if no additional or different offense is
charged and if substantial rights of the defendant are not
prejudiced." Ibid. § 7 (e).
The foregoing analysis shows that we are asked to
rule on constitutional questions that are not yet precisely
in issue. The question as it was decided by the District
a Italics supplied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Court was not the question faised by the motion to dismiss--whether the statute is invalid on its face-but
whether it is invalid as it is proposed to be applied. And
even if our decision could be evoked upon a showing
that the statute certainly, but for our intervention, would
have punished respondent for peaceful picketing, there
is no such certainty here. No final issue had been drawn.
The information was still subject to amendment to fit,
within the permissible area of amendments, the type of
coercive means developed by further pleading or proof.
See Borden's Co. v. Baldwin, supra, at 213. Further
pleadings and proof might well draw the issues into
sharper focus making it unnecessary for us to decide
questions not relevant to determination of the constitutionality of the statute as actually applied. Thus this
case had not reached a stage where the decision of a
precise constitutional issue was a necessity. Consequently, we refrain from considering any constitutional
questions except those concerning the Act as written.
We do not decide whether the allegations of the information, whatever shape they might eventually take,
would constitute an application of the statute in such
manner as to contravene the First Amendment. We only
pass on the statute on its face; it is not in conflict with
the First Amendment.
Fourth. The District Court held, and it is argued here,
that the statute, as sought to be applied in the information, violates the Thirteenth Amendment which prohibits
slavery and involuntary servitude. This contention is
also rooted in that part of the information which particularizes the means by which respondent attempted to
compel action by the licensee, i. e., by causing three mu:icians to discontinue, and three musicians not to accept,
employment. The argument is that employees have a
constitutional right to leave employment singly, see Pollock v. Williams, 322 U. S. 4, 17, 18, or in concert, and con-

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

sequently that respondent cannot be guilty of a crime for
directing or causing them to do so. For the reasons
given with reference to the picketing specification, therefore, we consider the Thirteenth Amendment question
only with reference to the statute on its face. Thus
considered, it plainly does not violate the Thirteenth
Amendment. Whether some possible attempted application of it to particular persons in particular sets of
circumstances would violate the Thirteenth Amendment
is a question we shall not pass upon until it is appropriately presented.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

I agree with the Court's judgment and opinion because
it holds that the Lea Act is not beyond the power of
Congress to regulate commerce. I desire, however, to
add a few words.
The constitutional basis for the legislation is the same
as that upon which the validity of the Sherman Law
rests. It is too late in the day to require argument
or citation of cases in support of the right of Congress
to free interstate commerce from obstruction that the
exertion of monopolistic power may entail or from interference that may reasonably be deemed to promote
monopoly. Equally clear is it that Congress may direct
its legislation specifically towards a disclosed evil, without generalizing its prohibition, when in its judgment
like evils have not disclosed themselves elsewhere. It
would be a usurpation of the legislative authority for
us to find that there was no basis in reason for the judgment of Congress that the public interest called for legislation to deal with what is colloquially called "feather-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

332 U. S.

bedding" in connection with the broadcasting business.
Beyond that, it is not our province to go.
The District Court took a different view, and on defendant's motion dismissed this information on the
ground that the statute is unconstitutional. 68 F. Supp.
845. Since the Court now holds that the statute is constitutional, the case goes back to the District Court.
The Court conjures up difficulties which I do not
share. The case is here under the Criminal Appeals
Act of 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, as amended by the Act of
May 9, 1942, 56 Stat. 271, 18 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946)
§ 682, whereby a direct review can be had of a district court
judgment setting aside an indictment or information, if
the decision of the district court is based "upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the indictment or information is founded." Our decisions have
construed this to mean that review can be had here only
if a district court's decision was based exclusively upon
the invalidity or construction of a statute. A criminal
case cannot be reviewed here if questions of criminal
pleading-defects not arising from the statute under consideration-enter into a decision sought to be reviewed.
See United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188, 192, 194;
United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 193; United
States v. Swift & Co., 318 U. S.442. If both the sufficiency of criminal pleading and the validity or construction of the underlying statute were in issue before the
District Court, and views as to both were interwoven in
the court's decision, this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal. Under the Act of May 9, 1942, it must
remand the cause to the appropriate circuit court of
appeals. On the other hand, if the question of constitutional construction was the isolated ground of decision by a district court dismissing a federal prosecution, that is the only question to be considered here
and it must be considered within the scope given it by

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

the district court. Other questions may be imbedded
in the case which may eventually come to the surface.
But they are not brought to the surface here under
the limited, specific review given by the Criminal Appeals Act. It is to such implicit questions of pleading,
and to statutory or constitutional questions not passed
upon by a district court, that Mr. Chief Justice Hughes
had reference when he said, "The Government's appeal
does not open the whole case." 'UnitedStates v. Borden
Co., supra,at 193.
There. is no complication in the record before us to an
exercise of our jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals
Act. The District Judge's decision is wholly free from
any ruling involving criminal pleading. He stated precisely what he deemed to be the sole issue before him
and which alone he decided: "The only question before
the court is the constitutional aspect of this statute as
it was written by Congress. On this question the court
is of the opinion that this statute is unconstitutional for
the reasons above stated." 68 F. Supp. at 850.
We, therefore, have no acknowledgment or intimation
by the District Judge that he had any difficulty with the
information as a matter of pleading, or that it carried
any ambiguities which he resolved one way rather than
another. If that were so, we would have no jurisdiction
to review his decision. The District Court found constitutional defects in the statute "as it was written by Congress." We find the contrary. Therefore, the information should go back to the District Court for disposition.
Just as we cannot go behind a district court's determination regarding the sufficiency of the indictment as a matter
of pleading as a preliminary to passing on statutory
validity, so, when a naked question of validity is presented
to us, it is not for us to scrutinize the charge and hypothesize possibilities whereby new questions may arise of a
statutory or constitutionalnature.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED, J.,

MR. JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

332 U. S,

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the Court.
My reason for disagreement is that § 506 (a) (1) of the
Communications Act is too indefinite in its description
of the prohibited acts to support an information or indictment for violation of its provisions. My objection
is not to the words in the first paragraph of § 506 that
make unlawful in labor matters the use of threats, force,
violence, intimidation or duress against an employer.
There is a background of experience and common understanding that ordinarily gives such words, when used in
criminal statutes, sufficient definiteness to acquaint the
public with the limits of the proscribed acts. When such
words are used, they place upon those affected the risk
of estimating incorrectly the sort of action that may ultimately be held to violate the statutes. Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373.
My objection is to the indefiniteness of the statutory
description of the thing for which force must not be
used-that is, "to compel" a licensee under the Communications Act "to employ . . . any person or persons

in excess of the number of employees needed by such
licensee to perform actual services."
This criminal statute is the product of legislation directed at the control of acts deemed evil by Congress. It
is one of the many regulatory acts that legislative bodies
have passed in recent years to make unlawful certain
practices in the field of economics that seemed contrary
to the public interest.1 These statutes made new crimes.
Deeds theretofore not subject to punishment fall within
the general scope of their prohibition. Common expel Emergency Price Control Act, 56 Stat. 33, § 205 (b), 50 U. S. C.
App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 925 (b); Fair Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat.
1069, § 16 (a), 29 U. S. C. § 216 (a); National Labor Relations Act, 49
Stat. 456, § 12, 29U. S. C. § 162; Federal Corrupt Practices Act, as
amended, 57 Stat. 167, § 9, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1509.

UNITED STATES v. PETRILLO.
1

REED,

J., dissenting.

rience has not created a general understanding of their
criminality. Consequently, in order to - adequately inform the public of the limitations on conduct, a more
precise definition of the crime is necessary to meet constitutional requirements.!
Anglo-American law does not punish citizens for violations of vague and uncertain statutes. There is no place
in our criminal law for acts defined as detrimental to the
interests of the state. A statute is invalid when "so vague
that men of common intelligence must necessarily guess
at its meaning." 269 U. S. at 391. It seems to me that
this vice exists in this section of the challenged act. How
can a man or a jury possibly know how many men are
"needed" "to perform actual services" in broadcasting?
What must the quality of the program be? How skillful
are the employees in the performance of their task?
Does one weigh the capacity of the employee or the managerial ability of the employer? Is the desirability of
short hours to spread the work to be evaluated? Or is
the standard the advantage in take-home pay for overtime work?
The Government seeks to avoid the difficulty by interpreting the section. Their brief says, after considering the legislative history, "the bill was not intended
to apply to mere differences of opinion as to whether men
were overworked; it only fits deliberate demands for payment to additional employees made in complete disregard
for the employer's need and without any justification
from the viewpoint of actually getting the employer's
business done. . . . If Paragraph (1) is read in its context, along with the succeeding paragraphs, it is clear what
Congress was driving at when it characterized the Act
United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81; Cline v. Frink
Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 216; Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385.
See Gorinv. United States, 312 U. S. 19, 26.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
REED, J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

as one to prevent extortion, as distinct from bona fide
demands relating to conditions of employment." This
interpretation seems to me to fly in the face of § 506 (1).
There is another subsection to which the language might*
apply.3 This clearly defines the prohibited acts. If the
Congress wishes to fix the maximum number of employees
that a licensee may employ in stations of various sizes,
it may, of course, be done. Or, if it is impractical for
Congress to act because of the varying situations, the
number may be left to regulations of the Federal Communications Commission or other regulatory body.
This is a criminal statute. The principle that such
statutes must be so written that intelligent men may
know what acts of theirs will jeopardize their life, liberty
or property is of importance to all. That principle requires, I think, a determination that this section of the
Communications Act is invalid.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

and

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join

in this dissent.

3

60 Stat. 89, § 506 (a) (4):
"to pay or give or agree to pay or give any money or other thing of
value for services, in connection with the conduct of the broadcasting
business of such licensee, which are not to be performed; ....

.

