OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 66.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued October 14-15, 1947.-Decided November 24, 1947.
Petitioners, Jehovah's Witnesses, were convicted in prosecutions for
absence without leave from a civilian public service camp, in viola-

tion of § 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.
The defense in each case was that the local board's classification of
the petitioner as a conscientious objector rather than as an exempt

minister of religion was invalid. Held:
1. Judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the convictions are here affirmed. Pp. 443-444, 455.
2. Having exhausted their remedies in the selective service process and complied with the orders of the local boards to report to
camp, petitioners were entitled to raise the issue of the validity of
their classifications in their criminal trials for absence without
leave. P. 448.
3. The local boards' denial to the defendants of the classification
of minister of religion is final unless it is without basis in fact.
Pp. 448-452.
4. The question whether the local boards' denial to the defendants
of the classification of minister of religion was without basis in fact
is a question of law for determination by the court. Pp. 452-453.
5. In the criminal trials, review of the local boards' classifications
was properly limited to the evidence which was before the boards
and upon which they acted. Pp. 453-455.
157 F. 2d 787, affirmed.

Petitioners were convicted in the District Court of violating the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.
The convictions were affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 157 F. 2d 787. This Court granted certiorari.
331 U. S. 801. Affirmed, p. 455.
*Together with No. 67, Thompson v. United States, and No. 68,
R'oisum v. United States, also on certiorari to the same Court.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

Opinion of REED, J.

Hayden C. Covington argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.
Irving S. Shapiro argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlmanand Robert S. Erdahl.
Mh. JUSTICE REED announced the judgment of the

Court and delivered an opinion in which
TICE, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

and

THE CHIEF JUS-

MR. JUSTICE BURTON

join.
These cases present the question of the scope of review
of a selective service classification in a trial for absence
without leave from a civilian public service camp. Petitioners are Jehovah's Witnesses who were classified as
conscientious objectors despite their claim to classification as ministers of religion. Ministers are exempt from
military and other service under the Act. All three petitioners exhausted their remedies in the selective service
process and complied with the order of the local board
directing them to report to camp. Cox and Thompson:
were indicted for leaving the camp without permission,
and Roisum was indicted for failing to return after proper
leave, in violation of § 11 of the Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940. 54 Stat. 885, 57 Stat. 597, 50 U. S. C.
Appendix §§ 301-318.
On their trials petitioners requested directed verdicts,
at appropriate times, because the selective service orders
were invalid and requested the court to charge the jury
that they acquit petitioners if they found that they were
ministers of religion and therefore exempt from all service. The trial judge did not grant petitioners' requests,
however, and instructed the juries that they were not
to concern themselves with the validity of the classification orders. Petitioners were convicted, and on appeal

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of REED, J.

332 U. S.

to the Circuit Court of Appeals their convictions were
affirmed. 157 F. 2d 787. We granted certiorari in order
to resolve questions concerning the submission to the jury
of evidence, to wit, the files of the local board of the selective service system, as relevant to the charge of violation
of selective service orders. 331 U. S. 801.
Petitioner Cox registered under the Selective Training
and Service Act on October 16, 1940, and in his questionnaire stated that he was 22 years old. and had been employed as a truck driver since 1936. The local board
classified him IV-F, as not physically fit for service, on
January 31, 1941, and on March 10, 1942, changed the
classification to I-A. Ten days later Cox filed a request
for reclassification as IV-E (conscientious objector), stating that he had become a Jehovah's Witness in January
1942. The board at first rejected the claim, but on June
12 of the same year granted him the requested classification. Ten days later petitioner first made his claim for
total exemption from service, claiming to be a minister of
religion; the local board refused the exemption and its
action was sustained by the board of appeal. On May 18,
1944, the board ordered Cox to report to camp, and on
May 26 he complied and then immediately left camp and
did not return.
Upon trial Cox's selective service file was received in
evidence. It contained an ordination certificate from the
Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society stating that Cox
was "a duly ordained minister of the Gospel" and that his
"'entire time" was devoted to missionary work. The file
also contained an affidavit of a company servant, Cox's
church superior, dated October 29, 1942, stating that Cox
"regularly and customarily serves as a minister by going
from house to house and conducting Bible Studies and
Bible Talks." There was also an affidavit by Cox,
dated October 28, 1942, stating that he was enrolled in the
"Pioneer service" on October 16 and that he was "able

COX v. UNITED. STATES.
442

Opinion of

REED,

J.

to average 150 hours per mon th to my ministerial duties
without secular work." He added that "my entire time.
will be devoted to preaching the Gospel as a pioneer."
Cox testified at the trial in October 1944 as to, his duties
as a minister that he preached from house to house, conducted funerals, and "instructed the Bible" in homes.
No evidence was introduced showing the total amount
of time Cox had spent in religious activities since October
16, 1942. Nor was there evidence of the secular activities
of Cox nor the time employed in them. Although the
selective service file was introduced in evidence, and the
trial court denied the motion for a directed verdict, it
does not appear that the trial judge examined the file
to determine whether the action of the local board was
arbitrary and capricious or without basis in fact. At that
time the lower federal courts interpreted Falbo v. United
States, 320 U. S. 549, as meaning that no judicial review
of any sort could be had of a selective service order. In
Estep v. United States, 327 U. S. 114, we held that a
limited review could be obtained if the registrant had
exhausted his administrative remedies, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals in accordance with that decision reviewed the file of Cox and found that the evidence was
"substantially in support" of the classification found by
the board.
Petitioner Thompson also registered on October 16,
1940, claiming exemption as a minister. He stated in his
questionnaire that he was 30 years old and that for the
past 13 years he had operated a grocery store and had been
a minister since August 1, 1940. At first the local board
gave him a deferred classification because of dependency,
but then changed his classification to IV-E. Thompson
appealed to the board of appeal on November 5, 1943,
explaining his duties as a minister and presenting a full
statement of his argument that as a colporteur he was
within the exemption for ministers as interpreted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REaD,

J.

332 U. S.

selective service regulations. He attached an affidavit
from the company servant, which stated that Thompson
during the preceding twelve months had devoted 5191/
hours to "field service," representing time spent in going
from house to house, and making "back-calls on the people
of good will," but not including time spent in conducting
studies at the "local Kingdom Hall." Another affidavit
from the company servant stated that Thompson was
an ordained minister of the Gospel, that he was serving
as assistant company servant, and that he was a "School
Instructor in a Course in Theocratic Ministry." Thompson also attached three certificates from the national
headquarters of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
which stated that Thompson had beeh associated with
the Society since 1941, that he served as assistant company servant and Theocratic Ministry Instructor, and
also as advertising servant and book study conductor.
Unlike the other two petitioners, Thompson did not
introduce an ordination certification from national headquarters stating that he devoted his entire time as a
minister. Thompson also filed a statement signed by
twelve Witnesses which stated that they regarded Thompson as an ordained minister of the gospel. No evidence
was submitted indicating any change in Thompson's activities in operating his grocery store. The board of
appeal sustained the local board in its classification, the
board ordered Thompson to report to camp, and on April
18, 1944, he reported and immediately left. Thompson's
trial followed the same pattern as Cox's, except that
Thompson was not allowed to testify concerning his duties
as a minister.
Petitioner Roisum also registered on the initial registration day, and filed a questionnaire stating that he was
22 years old, that he had worked for the past 15 years
as a farmer, and that he was ordained as a minister
in June 1940. Roisum made claim to a minister's ex-

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

Opinion of REED, J.

emption but at the same time submitted an affidavit
signed by his father saying that petitioner was necessary
to the operation of his father's farm. In June 1942
Roisum filed a conscientious objector's form claiming exemption from both combatant and non-combatant military service; this form was apparently filed under misapprehension, since Roisum did not abandon his contention
that he should be classified as a minister. In the form
he stated that he preached the gospel of the Kingdom at
every opportunity. Roisum also enclosed a letter from
national headquarters of the Society stating that Roisum
had been affiliated with the Society since 1936, that he had
been baptized in 1940 and "was appointed direct representative of this organization to perform missionary
and evangelistic service in organizing and establishing
churches and generally preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom of God in definitely assigned territory in 1941" and
that Roisum devoted his "entire time" to missionary work
and was a duly ordained minister. The local board classified Roisum as a conscientious objector to combat
service (I-A-0), and Roisum appealed on June 30, 1943.
Roisum attached an affidavit from his company servant
stating that Roisum was an assistant company servant,
a back call servant, and book study conductor, and that
by performance of these duties Roisum had acquitted
himself as a "regular minister of the gospel." The company servant submitted a schedule showing the number
of hours which Roisum had spent in religious activities
for six months from October 1942 to March 1943, ranging
from as little as 11 hours per month to as many as
69, averaging about 40. The board of appeal changed
the classification to IV-E and rejected Roisum's request
that an appeal be taken to the President. Roisum was
ordered to report to camp, disobeyed the order, and was
arrested and indicted. The trial court declared a mistrial on Roisum's undertaking to obey the board's order

448

8OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of REED, J.

332 U. S.

.and seek release on habeas corpus. Roisum subsequently

failed to comply, apparently because of transportation
difficulties, but finally reported to camp on May 23, 1944,
as directed. He remained in camp for five days, left on
a week-end pass, and never returned.
Upon trial Roisum made no effort to introduce new
evidence showing the nature of his duties as a minister.
He did request the , court to charge that if the decision
of the local board eroneously classified him in IV-E the
order was void and after conviction he moved fcr a judgment of acquittal or a 'ii*w trial on the ground that the
evidence in his selective service file showed that the classification of the board was arbitrary and capricious. The
trial judge examined the file and c0rcluded that there was
no ground to support Roisum's motion.,
Petitioners are entitled to raise the: question of the
validity of their selective service classifi~ations in this
proceeding. They have exhausted their remedies in the
selective service process, and whatever their position
might be in attempting to rai*se the question by writs
of habeas corpus against the camp" custodian, they are
entitled to raise the issue as a defense in a criminal prosecation for absence 'wjthout leave. Gibson v. United
States, 329 U. S. 338, 351-360. The scope of review to
which petitioners are entitled, however, is limited; as
we said in Estep v. United States, 327 U. S. 114, 122-23:
"The provision making the decisions of the local boards
'final' means to us that Congress chose not to give administrative action under this Act the customary scope of
judicial review which obtains under other statutes. It
means that the courts are not to weigh the evidence to
determine whether the classification made by the local
-boards was justified. The decisions of the local boards
made in conformity with the regulations are final even
though they may be erroneous. The question of jurisdiction of the local board Js reached only if there is no

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

Opinion of REED, J.

basis in fact for the classification which it gave the registrant." Compare Eagles v. United States ex rel. Samuels,
329 U. S. 304, and Eagles v. United States ex rel. Horowitz, 329 U. S. 317, in which a similar scope of review
is enunciated in habeas corpus proceedings by registrants
claiming to have been improperly inducted.
Section 5 (d) of the Selective Training and Service
Act provides that "regular or duly ordained ministers
of religion" shall be exempt from training and service
under the Act, and § 622.44 of Selective Service Regulations defines the terms "regular minister of religion"
and "duly ordained minister of religion." I In order to
aid the local boards in applying the regulation, the Director of Selective Service issued Opinion No. 14 (amended)
1 54 Stat. 885, 888:
"SEC. 5 ...

"(d) Regular or duly ordained ministers of religion, and students
who are preparing for the ministry in theological or divinity schools
recognized as such for more than one year prior to the date of
enactment of this Act, shall be exempt from training and service (but
not from registration) under this Act."
Selective Service Regulations, 32 C. F. R., 1941 Supp.:
Section 622.44. "Class IV-D: Minister of religion or divinity student. (a) In Class IV-D shall be placed any registrant who is a
regular or duly ordained minister of religion or who is a student preparing for the ministry in a theological or divinity school which has
been recognized as such for more than 1 year prior to the date of
enactment of the Selective Training and Service Act (September 16,
1940).
"(b) A 'regular minister of religion' is a man who customarily
preaches and. teaches the principles of religion of a recognized church,
religious sect, or religious organization of which he is a member, without having been formally ordained as a minister of religion; and who
is recognized by such church, sect, or organization as a minister.
"(c) A 'duly ordained minister of religion' is a man who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritusal or discipline of a
recognized church, religious sect, or religious organization, to teach
and preach its doctrines and to administer its rites and ceremonies in
public worship; and who customarily performs those duties."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

332 U. S.

on November 2, 1942,2 which described the tests to be
applied in determining whether Jehovah's Witnesses were
entitled to exemption as ministers, regular or ordained.
The opinion stated that Witnesses who were members
of the Bethel Family (producers of religious supplies) or.
pioneers, devoting all or substantially all of their time
to the work of teaching the tenets of their religion, generally were exempt, and appended a list of certain members of the Bethel Family and pioneers who were entitled
to this exemption. None of these Witnesses were on the
list. The opinion stated that members of the Bethel
Family and pioneers whose names did not appear on the
list, as well as all other Witnesses holding official titles in
the organization, must be classified by the boards according to the facts in each case. The determining criteria
were stated to be "whether or not they devote their lives
in the furtherance of the beliefs of Jehovah's Witnesses,
whether or not they perform functions which are normally
performed by regular or duly ordained ministers of other
religions, and, finally, whether or not they are regarded by
other Jehovah's Witnesses in the same manner in which
regular or duly ordained ministers of other religions are
ordinarily regarded." The opinion further stated that
the local board should place in the registrant's file "a
record of all facts entering into its determination for the
reason that it is legally necessary that the record show
the basis of the local board's decision." It will be observed that § 622.44 of the regulation makes
"ordination" the only practical difference between a "regular" and a "duly ordained minister." This seems consistent with § 5 of the Act. We are of the view that the
regulation conforms-to the Act and that it is valid under
the rule-making power conferred by § 10 (a).. We agree,
2

Opinion 14 (amended) is on file at the Office of Selective Service

Records, Washington, D. C.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

Opinion of REED, J..

also, that Opinion 14 furnishes a proper guide to the
interpretation of the Act and Regulations.
Our examination of the facts, as stated herein in each
case, convinces us that the board had adequate basis to
deny to Cox, Thompson and Roisum classification as ministers, regular or ordained. We confine ourselves to the
facts appearing in the selective service files of the three
petitioners, although the only documents dealing with the
petitioners' status as ministers were submitted by petitioners themselves. The documents show that Thompson and Roisum spent only a small portion of their time in
religious activities, and this fact alone, without a far
stronger showing than is contained in either of the ,files
of the registrants' leadership in church activities and the
dedication of their lives to the furtherance- of religious
work, is sufficient for the board to deny them a minister's
classification. As for Cox, the documents suggest but do
not prove that Cox spent full time as a "pioneer" between
October 1942 and May 1944 when he was ordered to camp.
As he made claim of conscientious objector classification
only after he was reclassified I-A from IV-F and still
later claimed ministerial exemption, the board was justified in deciding from the available facts that Cox had not
established his ministerial status. The board might have
i'easonably held that nothing less than definite evidence
of his full devotion of his available time to religious leadership would suffice under these circumstances.' Nor
'For a similar conclusion under the same subdivision of the statute,
giving exemption to -regular and duly ordained ministers of religion
and students, see Eagles v. Samuel., 329 U. S. 304, 316-17: "Nor can we say there was no evidence to support the final classification made by the board of appeal.

Samuels' statement that he

"was best fitted to be a Hebrew school teacher*and.spiritual leader, the
two-year interruption in his education, his return to the day session
of the seminary in the month when his selective service questionfiaire
was returned, and the fact that the seminary in question was appar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

332 U. S.

may Cox and Thompson complain that the district court
failed to pass on the validity of the classification orders.
If there was error of the district court in failing to examine the files of the board to determine whether or not there
was basis for their classification, it was cured in the Circuit Court of Appeals by that court's examination.
Petitioners do not limit themselves to the claim that
directed verdicts should have been entered in their favor
because of the invalidity of their classifications as a matter of law; they claim that the issue should have been
submitted With appropriate instructions to the jury.'
The charge requested by Roisum that he be acquitted
if the jury found that he was "erroneously" classified
was improper. In Estep v. United States it was distinctly
stated that mere error in a classification was insufficient
grounds for attack. Cox and Thompson requested
charges under which the jury would determine "whether
or not the defendant is a minister of religion" without
consideriifg the action of the local board. We hold that
such 9 charge would also have been improper. Whether
there was "no basis in fact" for the classification is not
ently)not preparing men exclusively for the rabbinate make questionable his claim that he was preparing in good faith for the rabbinate.
A registrant might seek a theological school as a refuge for the duration
of the war. Congress did not create the exemption in § 5 (d) for him.
There was some evidence that this was Samuels' plan; and that

evidence, coupled with his demeanor and attitude, might have seemed
more persuasive to the boards than it does in the cold record. Our
inquiry is ended when we- are unable to say that the board flouted
the command of Congress in denying Samuels the exemption."

' The Circuit Court of Appeals on April 5, 1946, ordered the judgments in these cases reversed on the ground that the jury should have
passed on petitioners' claims. fUpon rehearing the opinion was withdrawn, and on October 4 the court handed down an opinion affirming
the judgments. 157 F. 2d 787. In Smith v. United States, 157 F. 2d
176, .the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the submission of the
issue of classificati~p to the jury constituted reversible error. But
cf. United States exreP Kulick v. Kennedy, 157 F. 2d 811.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

Opinion of

REED,' J.

a question to be determined by the jury on an independent
consideration of the evidence. The concept of a jury
passing independently on an issue previously determined
by an administrative body or reviewing the action "pf
an administrative body is contrary to settled federal administrative practice; the constitutional right to jury trial
does not include the right to, have a jury phss on the
validity. of an administrative order. Yakus v. United
States, 321 U. S. 414. Although we held in Estep that
Congress did not intend to cut, off'all judicial review of
a selective service order, petitioners have full protection
by having the issue submitted to the trial judge and the
reviewing courts to determine whether there was any sub-.
stantial basis for the classification order. When the judge
determines that there was a basis in fact to support classification, the issue need not and should not be submitted
to the jury. Perhaps a court or jury would reach a
different result from the evidence but as the determination of classification is for selective service, its order is
reviewable "only if there is no basis in fact for the classification." Estep v. United States, supra, 122t Consequently when a court finds a basis in the fik6 for the
board's action that action is conclusive. The question of
the preponderance of evidence is not for trial anew. It is
not relevant to the issue of the guilt of the accused for
disobedience of orders. Upon the judge's determination
that the file supports the board, nothing in the file is
pertinent to any issue proper for jury coisideration.1
Petitioners also claim that they were denied the right
to introduce new evidence at the trial to support their
contention that the orders were invalid. Roisum made
no attempt to introduce such evidence, Cox was in fact
5For an analogous power of a judge as to admissibility, see Wigmore
(3d ed.) § 2550; Steele v. United States No. 2,267 U. S. 505, 510-11;
Ford v. United States, 273 U. S. 593, 605; Doe dem. Jenkins v. Davies,
10 Ad. & E. N. S. 314, 323-24; Phipson, Evidence (8th ad.), p. 9.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.

Opinion of

REED, J.

332 U. S.

allowed to testify as to his duties as a minister, and only
Thompson was denied the opportunity so to testify.
Thompson did not specify this point as error in his appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Passing the possible
waiver on the part of Thompson by failing to argue this
point below, we hold that his contention is without merit.
Petitioner claims that his status as a minister is a "jurisdictional fact" which may be determined de novo (reexamination of the record of the former hearing with right
to adduce additional evidence) in a criminal trial, and
relies on Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, where
we held that an alleged alien was entitled to a judicial
trial on the issue of alienage in habeas corpus proceedings.
But that case is different from this. The alien, there,
claimed American citizenship. As such, this Court said,
he had a right to a judicial hearing of his claim as a matter
of due process. This he could not get before the Commissioner of Immigration. Therefore, since the deportation of a citizen may involve loss "of all that makes life
worth living," this Court decided that the "jurisdiction"
of the Commissioner to try the alleged alien could be
tested by habeas corpus. P. 284. That gave the alleged
alien a judicial hearing. In these cases judicial review
of administrative action is allowed in the criminal trial.
This assures judicial consideration of a registrant's rights.
Petitioners' objection on this point is in essence that the
review is limited to evidence that appeared in the administrative proceeding. It seems to us that it is quite in
accord with justice to limit the evidence as to status in
the criminal trial on review of administrative action to
that upon which the board acted.' As we have said elsewhere the board records were made by petitioners. It
was open to them there to furnish full information as to
6See Goff v. United States, 135 F. 2d 610, and United States v.
Meuaersmrith,'138F. 2d 599.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

their activities. It is that record upon which the board
acted and upon which the registrants' violation of orders
must be predicated.
We perceive no error to petitioners' prejudice in the
records.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
concurs, dissenting.
I agree with the majority of the Court that we can
reverse the judgments below only if there was no basis
in fact for the classification. I also agree that that question is properly one of law for the Court. To that extent
I join in the opinion of the Court. But I do not agree
that the local boards had adequate basis to deny to petitioners the classification of ministers. My disagreement
is required by what I conceive to be the mandate of Congress, that all who preach and teach their faith and are
recognized as ministers within their religious group are
entitled to the statutory exemption.
The exemption runs to "regular or duly ordained ministers of religion." There is no suggestion that ohly ministers of the more orthodox or conventional faiths are
included. Nor did Congress make the availability of
the exemption turn on the amount of time devoted to
religious activity. It exempted all regular or duly ordained ministers. Hence, I think the Selective Service
Regulations properly required that a "regular" minister,
as disfmguished from a "duly ordained" minister,' only be
1 A "duly ordained" minister is-defined as one "who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of
a recognized church, religious sect, or religious organization, to teach
and preach its doctrines and to administer its rites and ceremonies

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

one who "customarily preaches and teaches the principles
of religion of a recognized church, religious sect, or reli-,
gious orgAnization of which he is a member, without having been formally ordained as a minister of religion; and
who is recognized by such church, sect, or organization
as a minister." 32 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. § 622.44 (b).
It is not disputed that Jehovah's Witnesses constitute a
religious sect or organization. We have, moreover, recognized that its door-to-door evangelism is as much religious activity as "worship in the churches and preaching
from the pulpits." Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S.
105, 109. The Selective Service files of these petitioners
establish, I think, their status as ministers of that sect.
Their claims to that status are supported by affidavits of
their immediate superiors in the local group and by their
national headquarters. And each of them was spending
substantial time in the religious activity of preaching
their faith. If a person is in fact engaging in the ministry,
his motives for doing so are quite immaterial.!
To deny these claimants their statutory exemption is
to disregard these facts or to adopt a definition of minister
which contracts the classification provided by Congress.
The classification as a minister may not be denied because the registrant devotes but a part of his time to
religious activity. It is not uncommon for ordained minin public worship; and who customarily performs those duties."
32 C.F. R. Cum.Supp. § 622.44 (c).
The distinction between "regular" and "duly ordained" ministers
is, I think, more than the ordination of the latter. The "duly
ordained" minister performs all the customary functions of a minister
of-a..L church. The concept of "regular" minister more nearly fits
those: who, like Jehovah's Witnesses, follow less orthodox or conventional practices. .
2
Eagles v. Samuels, 329 U. S. 304, is not controlling here. It
involved the exemption given students preparing for the ministry.
Mere presence ina school not exclusively confined to preparing men
for the rabbinate did not entitle the student to exemption.

COX v. UNITED STATES.
442

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

isters of more orthodox religions to work a full day in secular occupations, especially in rural communities. They
are nonetheless mirsters. Their status is determined not
by the houiddevoted to their parish but by their position
as teachers of their faith. It should be no different when
a religious organization such as Jehovah's Witnesses has
part-time ministers. Financial needs may require that
they devote a substantial portion of their time to lay occupations. And the use of part-time -ministers may be
dictated by a desire to disseminate more widely;-the religious views of the sect. Whatever the reason, these parttime ministers are vehicles for propagation of the faith;
by practical as well as historical standards they arp the
apostles who perform tile minister's function-for this
group.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
LEDGE concurs, dissenting.

with whom MR. JtJSTICE RUT-

With certain limitations, this Court has recognized
that a person on trial for an alleged violation of the
Selective Training and Service Act has'the right to prove
that the prosecution is based upon 4n invalid draft board
classification. But care must be t ken to preclude the
review of the classification by stanuards which allow the
judge to do little more than give iutomatic approval to
.the draft board's action. Otherwise the right to prove
the invalidity of the classification is drained of much of
its substance and the. trial bcomes a mere formality.
Such empty procedure has serious connotations, especially when we deal with those who claim they have been
illegally denied exemptions relating to conscientious
beliefs or ministerial status.
Specifically, I object to the standard of review whereby
the draft board classification is to be sustained unless
there is no evidence to support it. Less than a substantial
amount of evidence is thus permitted to legalize the clas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

sification.' Whatever merit this standard may have in
other situations, I question the propriety of its use in
this particular setting. This differs from an ordinary
ciJl proceeding to review a non-punitive order of an
-administrative agency, an order which is unrelated to
freedom of conscience or religion. This is a criminal
trial. It involves administrative action denying that
the defendant has conscientious or religious scruples
against war, or that he is a minister. His liberty and
his reputation depend upon the validity of that action.
If the draft board classification is held valid, he will be
imprisoned or fined and will be branded as a violator of
the nation's law; if that classification is unlawful, he
is a free man. Moreover, he has had no previous opportunity to secure a judicial test of this administrative
action, no chance to prove that he was denied his statutory rights. Everything is concentrated in the criminal
proceeding.
These stakes are too high, in my opinion, to permit
an inappreciable amount of supporting evidence to sanctfon a draft board classification. Since guilt or innocence
centers on that classification, its validity should be established by something more forceful than a wisp of evidence
or a speculative inference. Otherwise the defendant faces
an almost impossible task in attempting to prove the
illegality of the classification, the presence of a mere fragment of contrary evidence dooming his efforts. And such
a scant foundation should not justify brushing aside bona
fide claims of conscientious belief or ministerial status.
If respect for human dignity means anything, only evidence of a substantial nature warrants approval of the
draft board classification in a criminal proceeding.
It is needless to add that, from my point of view, the
proof in these cases falls far short of justifying the conviction of the petitioners. There is no suggestion in the
record that they were other than bona fide ministers.

LILLIE v. THOMPSON.
442

Syllabus.

And the mere fact that they spent less than full time in
ministerial activities affords no reasonable basis for implying a non-ministerial status. Congress must have
intended to exempt from statutory duties those ministers
who are forced to labor at secular jobs to earn a living
as well as those who preach to more opulent congregations. Any other view would ascribe to Congress an intention to discriminate among religious denominations
and ministers on the basis of wealth and necessity for
secular work, an intention that I am unwilling to impute.
Accordingly, in the absence of more convincing evidence,
I cannot agree that the draft board classifications underlying petitioners' convictions are valid.

LILLIE v. THOMPSON, TRUSTEE.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206.

Decided November 24, 1947.

A complaint under the Federal Employers' Liability Act alleged that
the hours, location and circumstances of the complainant's work
created a likelihood that she would suffer injuries through the
criminal acts of a person not an employee; that the railroad failed
to exercise its duty of taking reasonable measures to protect her
against the foreseeable danger, and that she suffered injuries as a
result of the railroad's failure to take such measures. Held:
1. The complaint stated a cause of action under the Act. Pp.
-460-461.
2. That the danger was from criminal misconduct by an outsider
is irrelevant. If that danger was foreseeable, the railroad had a
duty to make reasonable provision against it. Pp. 461-462.
162 F. 2d 716, reversed.

Petitioner's suit against a railroad for damages under
the Federal Employ.rs' Liability Act was dismissed by the
District Court for failure to state a cause of action. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 162 F. 2d 716. This

