OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

BARTELS ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS CRYSTAL BALLROOM, v. BIRMINGHAM, COLLECTOR OF IN-

TERNAL REVENUE,
NO. 731.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued April 3, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. Under the circumstances detailed in the opinion, the members of
"name bands" which- play short-term engagements at public dance
halls are, for purposes of the taxes imposed by the Social Security
Act, employees of the band leaders and not of the dance hall
operators-notwithstanding contractual provisions designating the
dance hall operators as their employers. Pp. 127-132.
2. An interpretive ruling on Treasury Regulations by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, whereby the burden of the social security tax could be shifted by contractual arrangements from the
band leaders to the dance hall operators, was in excess of the statutory power of the Commissioner and invalid. Pp. 130-132.
157 F. 2d 295, reversed.

Petitioners brought suits against the Collector of Internal Revenue' for refunds of social security taxes. In
one of the suits several band leaders were permitted to
intervene as defendants. Judgments for the petitioners
in the District Court were reversed, by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 157 F. 2d 295. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S-711. Reversed, p. 132.
Clyde B. Charlton and Thomas B. Roberts argued the
cause for petitioners. With them on the brief were
George E. Brammerand Joseph-. Brody.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for Birmingham, Collector of Internal Revenue, respondent. With him on the
*Together with No. 732, Geer et al., doing business as Larry Geer
Ballrooms, v. Birmingham, Collector of Internal Revenue, also on

certiorari to the same Court.

BARTELS v. BIRMINGHAM.
126

Opinion of the Court.

brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Sewall
Key and Lyle M. Turner.
Robert A. Wilson argued the cause for Williams et al.,
respondents in No. 73i. With him on the brief were
JosephA. Padway and Chauncey A. Weaver.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners, operators of public dance halls, brought
these actions, which were consolidated for trial, against
the respondent Collector of Internal Revenue to recover
taxes paid under the Social Security Act, Titles VIII and
IX, and I. R. C., c. 9, subchap. A and C. Recovery depends on whether petitioners' arrangements for bands to
play at the dance halls made the band leaders and other
members of the bands employees of the petitioners or
whether, despite the arrangements, the leaders were independent contractors and therefore themselves the employers of the other members. Several band leaders were
allowed to intervene in the Bartels case as defendants
to protect their own interests. After a recovery in the
District Court, 59 F. Supp. 84, was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Birmingham v. Bartels, 157 F. 2d 295,
petitioners sought certiorari which we granted because of
the importance of the issue to the administration of the
Act. 329 U. S. 711. See United States v. Silk and Harrison v. Greyvan Lines, 331 U. S. 704.
These cases are not concerned with musicians hired
by petitioners to play regularly for their dance halls but
with "name bands" hired to play for limited engagements
at their establishments. These bands are built around
a leader whose name, and distinctive style in the presentation and rendition of dance music, is intended to give
each band a marked individuality. The leader contracts
with different ballroom operators to play at their establishments for a contract price. Almost all of the engagements here involved were one-night stands, some f.w being

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

for several successive nights. The trial court found, and
there is no real dispute, that the leader exercises complete
control over the orchestra. He fixes the salaries of the
musicians, pays them, and tells them what and how to
play. He provides the sheet music and arrangements,
the public address system, and the uniforms. He employs and discharges the musicians, and he pays agents'
commissions, transportation and other expenses out of
the sum received from the dance hall operators. Any
excess is his profit and any deficit his personal loss. . The
operators of the dance halls furnish the piano but not
the other instruments.
The American Federation of Musicians, of which the
leaders and the musicians are members, adopted a standard contract known as "Form B." The terms of this
contract create the difficulties in the determination of
this case. As compensation to the bands, some contracts
call for a guaranteed sum, with the privilege to the bands
to take a percentage of the gross. Other contracts are
for a fixed sum, only, and others for a percentage of gross,
not to exceed a fixed sum. The contract states that the
ballroom operator is the employer of the musicians and
their leader, and "shall at all times have complete control
of the services which the employees will render under the
specifications of this contract." The form paragraph, so
far as pertinent, is set out in the margin.' The District
1 "Witnesseth, That the employer employs the personal services of

the employees, as musicians severally, and the employees severally,
through their representative, agree to render collectively to the employer services as musicians in the orchestra under the leadership of
Griff Williams, according to the following terms and conditions:
"The employer shall at all times have complete control of the serv-

ices which the employees will render under the specifications of this
contract. On behalf of the employer the Leader will distribute the
amount received from the employer to the employees, including him-

BARTELS v. BIRMINGHAM.
126

Opinion of the Court.

Court found that the contract was adopted by the Union
in order to shift the incidence of the social security 'taxes
from the leader to the ballroom operator, and that it had
no practical effect on the relations between the musicians,
leader, and operator. The District Court held that the
question of employment under the Act was one of fact,
and that the contract was only one factor to be considered.
Since the District Court believed that the contract was
not entered into "by fair negotiation" and that its purpose was to protect the leaders from taxes as employers,
it concluded that the contract was of no effect and that
the leader was an independent contractor employing the
musicians.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought otherwise. It
concluded that the test of employment was the common
law test of control, i. e., that one was an employer if he
had the "right" to direct what should be done and how
it should be done. It concluded that the contract between the parties gave the ballroom operators the "right"
to control the musicians and the leader, whether or not
the control was actually exercised. While the majority
thought that such a contract was not binding on the
Government, they thought it was binding on the parties
and would control liability for employment taxes if the
Bureau of Internal Revenue chose to accept the arrangement as valid. Birmingham v. Bartel8, supra, at 300.
self, as indicated on the opposite side of this contract, or in place
thereof on separate memorandum supplied to the employer at or
before the commencement of the employment hereunder and take and
turn over to the employer receipts therefor from each employee,
including himself. The amount paid to the Leader includes the cost
of transportation, which will be reported by the Leader to the employer. The employer hereby authorizes the Leader on his behalf
to replace any employee who by illness, absence, or for any other

reason does not perform any or all of the services provided for under
this contract ......

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

The Government here relies entirely on the contract,
conceding that otherwise the bandleaders are independent
contractors employing the musicians. On the other hand,
the bandleaders involved contend also that though the
contract be thought inconclusive, the leaders and musicians are employees of the operators. They rely upon
the dependence of the orchestra members upon the ballroom operators judged in the light of the purposes of
the Act.
In UnitedStates v. Silk, supra,we held that the relationship of employer-employee, which determines the liability for employment taxes under the Social Security Act,
was not to be determined solely by the idea of control
which an alleged employer may or could exercise over
the details of the service rendered to his business by the
worker or workers. Obviously control is characteristically associated with the employer-employee relationship,
but in the application of social legislation employees are
those who as a matter of economic reality are dependent
upon the business to which they render service. In Silk,
we pointed out that permanency of the relation, the skill
required, the investment in the facilities for work, and
opportunities for profit or loss from the activities were
also factors that should enter into judicial determination
as to the coverage of the Social Security Act. It is the
total situation that controls. These standards are as
important in the entertainment field as we have just said,
in Silk, that they were in that of distribution and transportation.
Consideration of the regulations of the Treasury and
the Federal Security Agency, quoted in Silk, 331 U. S.704,
at note 8, is necessary here. I. R. C., chap. 9, ยง,ยง 1429,
1609. Under those regulations, the Government successfully resisted the effort of a leader of a "name" band, like
those here involved, to recover social security taxes paid
on the wages of the members of his organization. Wil-

BARTELS v. BIRMINGHAM.
126

Opinion of the Court.

liams v. United States, 126 F. 2d 129. The contract in
that case was not "Form B" and did not contain any
corresponding control clause. Two years later, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue issued mimeographs 5638,
1944-5-11651, and 5767, 1944-22-11889, 1944' Cum. Bull.
547-48. They were directed at the status of musicians
and variety entertainers appearing in theatres, night
clubs, restaurants and similar establishments. Collectors
and others were therein advised that a "Form B" or similar contract with the entertainers made operators of
amusement places liable as employers under the Social
Security Act. In the absence of such a contract, that is,
in reality, the absence of the control clause of "Form B,"
the entertainers, with "short-term engagements for a
number of different operators" of amusement places,
would be considered "independent contractors." The
argument of respondents to support the administrative
interpretation of the regulations is that the Government
may accept the voluntary contractual arrangements
of the amusement operators and entertainers to shift
the tax burden from the band leaders to the operators.
Cases are cited to support this position.3 All of these
cases, however, involve the problem of corporate or association entity. They are not, pertinent upon the question of contracts to shift tax liability from one taxpayer
to another wholly distinct and disconnected corporation
2There

is a contention that the contracts were coerced because

the operators could not secire these musicians under other arrangements. We do not find it necessary to rely or pass upon that
contention.
aEdwards v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456; Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Co., 287 U. S. 415; New Colonial Ice Co. v.
Helvering, 292 U. S. 435; Helvering v. Coleman-Gilbert Associates,
296 U. S. 369, 374; Higgins v. Smith, 308 U. S. 473, 477; Gray v.
Powell, 314 U. S. 402; Moline Properties,Inc. v. Commissioner, 319
U. S. 436, 439; Interstate Transit Lines v. Commissioner, 319 U. S.
590; Schenley Corp. v. United States, 326 U. S. 432, 437.

0CTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

or individual. We do not think that such a contractual
shift authorizes the Commissioner to collect taxes from
one not covered by the taxing statute. The interpretive
rulings on the Regulations, referred to in this paragraph,
do not have the force and effect of Treasury Decisions.'
We are of the opinion that such administrative action
goes beyond routine and exceeds the statutory power of
the Commissioner. Social Security Board v. Nierotko, 327
U. S. 358, 369-70.
This brings us then to a determination of whether the
members of a "name band" under the circumstances
heretofore detailed are employees of the operator of the
dance hall or of the leader. If the operator is the employer, the leader is also his employee.
We are of the opinion that the elements of employment
mark the band leader as the employer in these cases.
The leader organizes and trains the band. He selects the
members. It is his musical skill and showmanship that
determines the success or failure of the organization.
The relations between him and the other members are
permanent; those between the band and the operator
are transient. Maintenance costs are a charge against
the price received for the performance. He bears the loss
or gains the profit after payment of the members' wages
I
and the other band expenses.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
reversed and those of the District Court are affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting.
As the opinion of the Court points out, the Form B
contract involved in the present case was adopted, with
the approval of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
SSee 1944 Cum. Bull., notice, p. I.

BARTELS v. BIRMINGHAM.
126

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

after it had been held under an earlier form of contract
that members of the orchestra were employees of the band
leader. On the face of the present contract the dance
hall proprietor is the employer even under traditional
concepts of master and servant. For he has all of the
conventional earmarks of the entrepreneur--ownership,
profit, loss, and control-if the provisions of the contract
alone are considered. Then the requirements of the Social Security Act are satisfied. And to hold the dance
hall proprietor liable for the tax is not to contract"the
coverage contemplated by the statutory scheme.
I think the tax collector should be entitled to take such
private arrangements at their face. In other situations
a taxpayer may not escape the tax consequences of the
business arrangements which he makes on the grounds
that they are fictional. The Government may "sustain
or disregard the effect of the fiction as best serves the purposes of the tax statute." Higgins v. Smith, 308 U. S.
473, 477. That rule is not restricted in its application to
the use by taxpayers of corporate or related devices to
obtain tax advantages. It was applied in Gray v. Powell,
314 U. S. 402, where a railroad sought exemption from
the Bituminous Coal Act. by contending that the operations of one who appeared to be an independent contractor were in fact its operations. The Court in
rejecting the contention said that "The choice of disregarding a deliberately chosen arrangement for conducting
business affairs does not lie with the creator of the plan."
Id., 414. I see no reason for creating an exception to that
rule here. If the Government chooses to accept the contract on its face, the parties should be barred from showing
that it conceals the real arrangement. Tax administration should not be so easily embarrassed.

