CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
Syllabus.

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT ET AL., DOING
THOR ECKERT & CO.

BUSINESS AS

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 625.

Argued March 31, April 1, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

A stevedore, while aboard and engaged in unloading a vessel owned
by the United States and managed by General Agents under a
general agency contract, was injured by a defective boom. He
sued the Agents for damages in a state court. Held:
1. The injury was a maritime tort and the state court had jurisdiction by virtue of § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which saves
"to suitors, in all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where
the common law is competent to give it." P. 157.
2. The determination of the state court that a business invitee,
such as the stevedore, is without a remedy in the courts of the state
against one who has no control and possession of the premises is
decisive. P. 158.
3. To the extent that the determination of tort liability in the
state court involves the construction of the contract between the
Agents and the United States, the interpretation of the contract
presents a federal question upon which the determination of the
state court is not conclusive. P. 158.
4. If, on a fair reading of the contract, the control which the
Agents had over the vessel is the kind of control which the state
requires as a basis of liability to third persons, the state courts can
not so read the contract as to deny the right which the state
recognizes. P. 158.
5. Under the contract with the United States, the Agents are not
to be deemed owners pro hac vice in possession and control of the
vessel. Pp. 158-159.
6. Hust v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 328 U. S. 707, and Brady
v. Roosevelt S. S. Co., 317 U. S. 575, differentiated. Pp. 159-160.
295 N. Y. 463, 68 N, E. 2d 444, affirmed.

Petitioner sued respondents in a state court of New
York to recover damages for injuries sustained aboard a
vessel which respondents were managing as General
Agents under a contract with the United States. A ver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

dict for the petitioner was set aside by the Appellate Division. 270 App. Div. 563, 61 N. Y. S. 2d 164. The Court
of Appeals affirmed. 295 N. Y. 463, 68 N. E. 2d 444.
This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 704. Affirmed,
p. 160.
Abraham M. Fisch argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Isidor Enselman.
Raymond Parmer argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Cletus Keating and Vernon
Sims Jones.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney GeneralSonnett, J. FrankStaley, James C. Wilson,
Paul A. Sweeney and Leavenworth Colby filed a brief for
the United States, as amicus curiae.
Jacquin Frank and Arthur Leonard Ross filed a brief
for the International Longshoremen's & Warehousemen's
Union, as amicus curiae,urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The S. S. Everagra is owned by the United States and
managed in its behalf by the respondents as General
Agents. (For the relevant portions of the contract and
for full consideration of it ix relation to issues other than
those here involved, reference is made to Hust v. MooreMcCormack Lines, 328 U. S. 707.) On January 27, 1944,
the Everagra, docked in the North River, New York City,
was being unloaded by a stevedoring concern, the Jarka
Company. Jarka did the unloading under a contract
with the United States, negotiated through the War
Shipping Administration. One of its provisions was that
"the Administrator shall furnish and maintain in good
working order all" necessary equipment. Caldarola, the

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner, was an employee of Jarka. In the course of
his work on the vessel he was injured. He brought this
action in the New York courts against the respondents,
claiming that his injury was caused by a defective boom
and that they were liable for failing in their duty as Agents
to maintain it in sound condition.
The New York Court of Appeals, affirming the Appellate Division in setting aside a verdict for the petitioner,
270 App. Div. 563, 61 N. Y. S. 2d 164, held that under
New York law the relation which the Agents bore to the
vessel did not make them responsible to a third person for
its condition. 295 N. Y. 463, 68 N. E. 2d 444. Because
of claimed conflict in the decisions, particularly between
this ruling and Hust v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 328
U. S. 707, we granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 704.
No doubt petitioner could have sued the United States
in Admiralty. Section 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act,
41 Stat. 525, 46 U. S. C. § 742. He chose not to do so.
Presumably to obtain the benefit of trial by jury, he
asked for relief from New York. There is no question
that the injury of which Caldarola complains is a maritime
tort. As such it is suable in the State courts by virtue
of § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 which saves "to suitors,
in all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where the
common law is competent to give it . . . ." 1 Stat.
76-77. Whether Congress thereby recognized that there
were common law rights in the States as to matters also
cognizable in admiralty, or whether it was concerned only
with "saving" to the States the power to use their courts
to vindicate rights deriving from the maritime law to the
extent that their common law remedies may be available,
is a question on which the authorities do not speak with
clarity. Compare Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 460-61;
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 598-99; 3 Story oi the
Constitution (1st ed.) 533, n. 3, with Schoonmaker v.
Gilmore, 102 U. S. 118; The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398;

.158

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; C. J.
Hendry Co. v. Moore, 318 U. S. 133; Seas Shipping
Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U. S. 85, 88-89. In any event,
whether New York is the source of the right or merely
affords the means for enforcing it, her determination is
decisive that there is no remedy in its courts for such
a business invitee against one who has no control and
,possession of premises. Compare Douglas v. New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. Co., 279 U. S. 377, and Testa
v. Katt, 330 U. S. 386.
The New York Court of Appeals authoritatively determines who is liable, in New York, for such an occurrence
as that of which Caldarola complains. Insofar as the
issues in this case exclusively concern New York law, that
court had the final say in holding that one in the relation
of the respondents to the petitioner is not liable for the
tort of which the latter complains. But to the extent that
the determination of tort liability in New York is entangled with the construction of the contract between the
Agents and the United States, the interpretation of that
contract is a matter of federal concern and is not concluded by the meaning which the State court may find
in it.
We agree that if, on a fair reading of the contract,
the control which the Agents had over the vessel is the
kind of control which New York requires as a basis of
liability to third persons, the New York courts cannot so
read the contract as to deny the right which New York
recognizes. It is not claimed that an injured party has
rights under the agency contract or that it created duties
to third persons. Robins Drydock & Repair Co. v. Flint,
275 U. S. 303. And so the narrow question is whether the
Agents were in possession and control of the Everagra.
This is the crucial issue, because liability in tort by the
Agents for Caldarola's injury would only arise in New York
when there is such possession and control of premises on

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

Opinion of the Court.

which injury occurs, due to negligence in their maintenance. Cullings v. Goetz, 256 N. Y. 287, 176 N. E.-397.
The United States, as amicus curiae, submitted what we
deem to be conclusive considerations against reading the
contract so as to find the Agents to be owners pro hac vice
in possession and control of the vessel. The consequences, to both the national and international interests
of the United States, of such a construction would be too
far-reaching to warrant such a forced reading merely in
order to have a basis on which to build liability under the
law of New York. Serious issues affecting the immunity
of Government vessels in foreign ports as well as immunity from regulation and taxation by local governments
would needlessly be raised. After all, the question
is not whether petitioner may be compensated for his
injury. Congress has made provision for that. Petitioner insists, in order to enable him to sue in the courts
of New York, that the Agents are to be deemed, as a matter
of federal law, owners of the vessel pro hac vice and,
therefore, as a matter.of State law, subject to the duties of
such ownership under New York law toward business
invitees. We reject this construction.
Our previous decisions do not require it. Hust v.
Moore-McCormack Lines, supra, arose under the Jones
Act. (Act of March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1185, as amended,
June 5, 1920, 41 Stat. 1007). We there held that under
the Agency contract the Agent was the "employer" of an
injured seaman as that term is used in the Jones Act, and
a seaman could therefore bring the statutory action against
such an "employer." The Court did not hold that the
Agency contract made the Agent for all practical purposes
the owner of the vessel. It did not hold that it imposed
upon him, as a matter of federal law, duties of care to
third persons, more particularly to a stevedore under employment of a concern unloading the vessel pursuant to
a contract with the United States. Brady v. Roosevelt

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

Steamship Co., 317 U. S. 575, is likewise remote from the
issues decisive of this case. It merely held that the Suits
in Admiralty Act, by furnishing an in personam remedy
against the United States, did not free the Agent from
liability for his own torts. The Brady case did not reach
the "different question" whether "a cause of action"
against the Agent had been established. 317 U. S. at 585.
That is the precise question here, and more particularly,
whether the contract created a relationship from which,
under New York law, liability as to business invitees
followed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY concur, dissenting.
For the reasons stated in my separate opinion in Hust
v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 328 U. S. 707, 734, I think
that respondents were owners pro hac vice of the vessel,
since the business of managing and operating it was their
business. They were, therefore, principals and liable to
petitioner, a longshoreman who was injured while working on the deck of the vessel by reason of the breaking of
a cargo boom, part of the ship's gear.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
has reached the same result in a case decided since Hust
v. Moore-McCormack Lines. In Militano v. United
States, 156 F. 2d 599, that court held that the agent under
the same form of operating agreement as we have here
was owner pro hac vice. Swan, J., speaking for the court,
said in reference to the Hust case, p. 602, "If the agent remains the employer sufficiently to be liable to members
of the crew under the Jones Act, we think it cannot escape
the duties of an owner pro hac vice in other respects.
Thus it has the duty to furnish stevedores with a safe
place to work, a duty which is analogous to that owed by
a landowner to a business visitor."

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

The Court does not essay to answer that argument; nor
does it address itself to the facts which I reviewed in the
Hust case and which establish that the business of managing and operating the vessel was the business of the
agent. It avoids analysis of the actual arrangement by
viewing with alarm the consequences to the Government
of such a holding as applied in other situations. But we
are here concerned with private rights which press for
recognition. It is no answer to the legal argument on
which those private rights rest that the Government might
be inconvenienced if they were recognized. It is plain
under this operating agreement that the United States is
merely the underwriter of the financial risks of the venture
while the private operator performs the managerial functions in the usual way. To call that government operation is to ignore the realities of the relationship. Whatever the consequences in other situations, it is shocking
to find private operators getting immunity in this manner
from their traditional liability for tort claims.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

I agree with respondents' counsel and the Court that
Hust v. Moore-McCormack Lines, 328 U. S. 707, does not
rule this case. Nevertheless I cannot agree with the
Court's view that either New York law or the so-called
'agency contract," identical with that involved in the
Hust case, immunizes respondents from the consequences
of their negligence causing petitioner's injury.
The Hust case involved the rights of seamen, not of
longshoremen.' Also it arose under the Jones' Act, 46
U. S. C. § 688, whereas here liability is grounded upon
maritime tort. And the Hust decision rested in part
Congress and the President, in the legislative and executive actio,
taken in connection with the Merchant Marine and pertinent in the
Hust case, were concerned with the rights of seamen, not primarily
or perhaps even incidentally with those of longshoremen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

upon the effects of the so-called Clarification Act of 1943,
50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1291, which has no
bearing in this case, since seamen are not involved.
The Hust decision flatly rejected the view that the
events there in question I had been effective to strip the
seaman of his various preexisting remedies, replacing
them with the single remedy of suit provided by the Suits
in Admiralty Act.' 46 U. S. C. § 742. The necessary
result was to preserve not merely the seaman's rights
under the Jones Act but also his other preexisting ones.'
For if the conjunction of events put forward in the Hust
case as having made the Suits in Admiralty Act remedy
the only one available to the seaman was thus effective,
the Jones Act remedy as well as others was thereby excluded. And if it was not excluded, neither were those
2In

the Hust case, after noting the disruptive consequences for
seamen's long-settled rights flowing from the view that they had been
reduced for assertion to the single remedy provided by the Suits in
Admiralty Act, we said: "We may assume that Congress could authorize so vast a disturbance to settled rights by clear and unequiv.ocal command. It is not permissible .to find one by implication.
Brady v. Roosevelt Co., supra [317 U. S. 575], at 580.. Here the disruption, if it has occurred, has done so only as an implied result of the
conjunction of the Suits in Admiralty Act's provisions with the Government's emergency action in taking over the shipping industry for
war purposes." 328 U. S. at 722. No such intent, we said, could be
found in any action of Congress, or of that body and the President, in
exercising their powers to bring the industry under governmental
control; or in the Suits in Admiralty Act or the Jones Act as applied
to the relation created by the "agency" contract.
8See note 2.
4Confirmation of the conclusions summarized in note 2, supra,
was found in the legislative history of the Clarification Act of 1943,
50 U. S. C. App (Supp. V, 1946) § 1291, and particularly in the provision for election of remedies given ty § 1, as to injuries accruing on
or after October 1, 1941, and before March 24, 1943, the Act's effective
date. Opinion was expressly reserved as to the effect of that Act
concerning injuries occurring after its effective date. 328 U. S. at
727.

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

RUTLUDGE,

J., dissenting.

others long possessed by seamen.' The Hust decision
was therefore not merely a construction of the Jones Act.
That Act was simply a specific fulcrum for turning the
broader issue presented.
But seamen's rights are not longshoremen's rights
and the events combining to present the question concerning seamen's rights in the Hust case were not conclusive
upon longshoremen's rights. This is true although in
some instances longshoremen, through legislation or by
virtue of their succession to seamen occasioned by the industry's evolution in some phases of ship and shore duty,
have been held entitled to similar protections. Seas Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U. S. 85; Atlantic Transport Co.
v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52. The question in this case
therefore is not one necessarily governed by the same considerations as applied in the cases of seamen covered by
the Hust decision.
But, as the Court recognizes, it is one of maritime tort,
although longshoremen rather than seamen are involved;
and is moreover "suable in the State courts by virtue
of § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 which saves 'to suitors,
in all cases, the right of a common law remedy, where
the common law is competent to give it.'" Notwithstanding the characterization as maritime tort, the Court
skirts the question whether the source of the right is New
York law or, on the contrary, is federal law for which New
York, pursuant to § 9, merely supplies a means for enforcement. For in either event, it says, New York's
"determination is decisive that there is no remedy in its
courts for such a business invitee against one who has
no control and possession of premises."
5

In.the Hust case we said of the argument that the Suits-in Admiralty Act remedy had become exclusively available for asserting
seamen's rights that, with specified exceptions, "the various rights of
seamen, enforceable by various proceedings in admiralty and at law,
in state and federal courts, are swept into one hopper, the suit against
the Government .

. . ."

328 U. S. at 720.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

From this conclusion I disagree. For, if the liability
here is founded in federal law, as creating the maritime
tort, then New York law has nothing to do with creating
or nullifying the substantive right. Its sole function is
to supply the remedy commanded by § 9 of the Judiciary
Act. Testa v. Katt, 330 U. S. 386. And in my judgment
the liability here, since it arises from a maritime tort,
is a creature of federal law in its entirety, not of state
law.' I therefore do not agree that any substantive issues
in the case "exclusively concern New York law" or that
in any respect that state's Court of Appeals "had the final
say in holding that one in the relation of the respondents
to the petitioner is not liable for the tort of which the
latter complains." I do not understand how the Court
can leave open the question whether New York law has
a hand in creating the right sued on or one only in supplying a forum and remedy, and at the same time can
rely on New York law as having any part in creating the
right or nullifying it, as it seems to do. The result does
not simply entangle state law with federal law in the
28 U. S. C. § 371, derived from § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
is a recognition by Congress that the states may exercise whatever
jurisdiction the common law had concurrently with admiralty. See,
Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 460-461. However, since "It is not
a remedy in the common-law courts which is saved, but a commonlaw remedy," The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 431, it has been held
that where suit is brought under the saving clause the right to be
enforced is that "recognized by the law of the sea." Chelentis v.
Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 384. "The general rules of the
maritime law apply whether the proceeding be instituted in an admiralty or common-law court." Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger,
259 U. S. 255, 259. The commentators recognize this to be the rule
now, 1 Benedict on Admiralty (6th ed.) 53-55; Stumberg, Maritime
Cases in Common-law Courts (1925) 3 Tex. L. Rev. 246; Mole and
Wilsoir, A Study -of Comparative Negligence (1932) 17 Corn. L. Q.
333, 353-355, though the matter seems not to have been decided prior
to the Chelentis case. Cf. The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, 404.
6

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

substantive phase of the case. It entangles hypothetically applicable state law in one phase with federal law
in another.
Regarding the case, as I do, as being controlled in its
substantive aspect altogether by federal law, I do not
think that law requires or should permit the result the
Court reaches. Regardless of whether the so-called
"agency" contract makes the operating company an
"agent," an "owner pro hac vice," or technically something else in relation to the United States, the federal
maritime law in my opinion well might hold responsible
to an injured longshoreman one who has knowledge that
such persons will come aboard and who undertakes to
keep the vessel and its equipment in safe condition for
their use.' More especially should such a rule apply
when the person so undertaking is the only one constantly on board to observe the creation of hazardous
risks in the vessel's daily routines and, in addition, has
such a degree of control over their creation as the "agent"
did here.
But, in any event, the same result should be reached
on the basis of construction of the contract. Whether
this is put upon the ground stated in the opinion of MR.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS, that the "agent" became owner pro hac
vice, or in the view of the contract taken in the Hu8t case,
7"One who does an act or carries on an activity upon land on behalf
of the possessor thereof, is subject to the same liability, and enjoys the
same immunity from liability, for bodily harm caused thereby to
others within and outside the land as though he were the possessor
of the land." Restatement, Torts, § 383.
"An agent who has the custody of land or chattels and who should
realize that there is an undue risk that their condition will cause harm
to the person, land, or chattels of others is subject to liability for
such harm caused, during the continuance of his custody, by his
failure to use care to take such reasonable precautions as he is au-

thorized to take." Restatement, Agency, § 355.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

with reference to application of the Jones Act, is largely
immaterial, perhaps only a matter of words.8
That view, incorporating the rule of the Hearst case,"
we have only recently extended to apply in cases of coverage of the Social Security Act and the Fair Labor
Standards Act. United States v. Silk, 331 U. S. 704;
Harrison v. Greyvan Lines, id.; Rutherford Food Corp.
v. McComb, 331 U. S. 722. While the liability here is
not legislative in origin, nevertheless as in the Hust case,
application of the common-law "control" test to defeat
the longshoreman's remedy under the state procedure,
as provided by § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, cannot
"be justified in this temporary situation unless by inversion of that wisdom which teaches that 'the letter
killeth, but the spirit giveth life.'" 328 U. S. at 725.
Finally, in my opinion, the terms of the agreement in
its provisions for indemnity confirm the conclusion that
liability of the "agent" in such a case as this was contemplated. Not only is there broad indemnity "for all
expenditures of every kind made by it in performing, procuring or supplying the services, facilities, stores, supplies or equipment as required hereunder," with specified
exceptions not covering such liabilities as are now in
question. The indemnity also expressly provided:
gIn that case, assuming. that the agreement made Hust, the injured seaman, an employee of the United States for purposes of
ultimate control, in spite of the meticulous character of the differences between it and the Maritime Commission's standard contract,
we said: "But it does not follow from the fact that Hust was technically the Government's employee that. he lost all remedies against
the operating 'agent' for'such injuries as he incurred. This case, like
National Labor Relations Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S.
111, involves something more than mere application to the facts of
the dommon-law test for ascertaining the vicarious responsibilities
of a private employer for tortious conduct of an employee." 328
U..S. at 724.
9
National Labor Relations Board v. Hearst Publications,322 U. S.
111.

CALDAROLA v. ECKERT.
155

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

"To the extent not recovered from insurance, the
United States shall also reimburse the General Agent
for all crew expenditures (accruing during the term
hereof) in connection with the vessels hereunder, including, without limitation, all disbursements for or
on account of wages, extra compensation, overtime,
bonuses, penalties, subsistence, repatriation, travel
expense, loss or personal effects, maintenance, cure,
vacation allowances, damages or compensation for
death or personal injury or illness, and insurance
premiums, required to be paid by law, custom, or by
the terms of the ship's articles or labor agreements . . ."

(Emphasis added.) .

as well as for payments made to pension funds and for
social security taxes. This clause specifically, contemplated that the "agent" should be responsible for paying
claims not only for maintenance and cure but also for
"damages or compensation for death or personal injury
or illness," and should be indemnified for such payment.
A narrow construction, of course, would limit the provisions for payment and indemnity to payments made
without resort to suit. On the other hand, even a literal
interpretation would cover payments made by the "agent"
upon judgments recovered against it on claims of the
character specified. I know of no good reason why the
narrow view should be accepted or why the Government
by its contract should desire to uproot seamen and others,
including longshoremen insofar as they have acquired
seamen's rights aboard ship, from. their normally applicable remedies, in the absence of either explicit statutory
command or express contractual provision to that effect.
Moreover, in view of the scope of the indemnity provided,
I see no possible harm that could be inflicted on the
"agent" from interpreting the contract so as to allow
the normally applicable remedies to apply.
Accordingly, I would reverse the judgment of the Court
of Appeals.

