OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
332 U. S.

Syllabus.

there is no reason why the square corners should cQnstitute a one-way street.
The Government asks us to lift its policies out of the
control of the States and to find or fashion a federal rule
to govern them. I should respond to that request by
laying down a federal rule that would hold these agencies
to the same fundamental principles of fair dealing that
have been found essential in progressive states to prevent
insurance from being an investment in disappointment.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS joins

in this opinion.

DELGADILLO v. CARMICHAEL, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 63.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided November 10, 1947.

More than five years after he had entered the United States legally,
an alien shipped as a seaman on an American ship bound from
Los Angeles to New York. The ship was torpedoed and he was
rescued and taken to Havana, whence he was returned to the United
States. He was convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude
committed within five years thereafter and was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year to life. Proceedings were irstituted
for his deportation. Held: He is not subject to deportation, since

his return to the United States was not "the entry of the alien to
the United States" within the meaning of § 19. (a) of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, as amended.

Pp. 389-391.

159 F. 2d 130, reversed.

On a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, the District
Court discharged a resident alien who was being held for
deportation under § 19 (a) of the Immigration Act of
February 5, 1917, as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 155 (a). The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 159 F. 2d 130. This

DELGADILLO v. CARMICHAEL.
388

Opinion of the Court.

Court granted certiorari. 331 U. S. 801. William A.
Carmichael was substituted for Albert Del Guercio as
respondent. 332U.S.-806. Reversed, p 391.
Fred Okrand argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was A. L. Wirin..

With

Robert W. Ginnane argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Robert S. Erdahl and Sheldon E. Bernstein.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner is detained by respondent under a deportation order, the validity of which is challenged by a petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The District Court
granted the petition and discharged petitioner. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 159 F. 2d 130. The case
is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we
granted because of the seeming conflict between the decision below and Di Pasqualev. Karnuth, 158 F. 2d 878,
from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
Petitioner is a Mexican citizen who made legal entry
into this country in 1923 and resided here continuously
until 1942. In June of that year, when this nation was engaged in hostilities with Germany and Japan, he shipped
out of Los Angeles on an intercoastal voyage to New York
City as a member of the crew of an American merchant
ship. The ship was torpedoed after passing through the
Panama Canal on its way to New York City. Petitioner
was rescued and tken to Havana, Cuba, where he was
taken care of by the American Consul for about one week.
On July 19, 1942, he was returned to the United States
through Miami, Florida, and thereafter continued to
serve as a seaman in the merchant fleet of this nation.
In March 1944 he was convicted in California of second-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

degree robbery and sentenced to imprisonment for a term
of one year to life. While he was confined in the California prison, proceedings for deportation were commenced against him under § 19 (a) of the Immigration
Act of February 5, 1917, 39 Stat. 874, as amended 54
Stat. 671, 8 U. S. C. § 155 (a).
That section provides in part:
.. . any alien who is hereafter sentenced to imprisonment for a term of one year or more because
of conviction in this country of a crime involving
moral turpitude, committed within five years after
the entry of the alien to the United States . . . shall,
upon the warrant of the Attorney General, be taken
into custody and deported. . ....
Those requirements for deportation are satisfied if petitioner's passage from Havana, Cuba, to Miami, Florida,
on July 19, 1942, was "the entry of the'alien to the United
States" within the meaning of the Act.
In United States ex rel. Claussen v. Day, 279 U. S. 398,
United States ex rel. Stapf v. Corsi, 287 U. S. 129, and
United States ex rel. Volpe v. Smith, 289 U. S. 422, there
is language which taken from its context suggests that
every return of an alien from a foreign country to the
United States constitutes an "entry" within the meaning
of the Act. Thus in the Smith case it was stated, 289 U. S.
p. 425, that "any coming of an alien from a foreign country
into the United States whether such coming be the first
or any subsequent one" is such an "entry." But those
were cases where the alien plainly expected or planned to
enter a foreign port or place. Here he was catapulted into
the ocean, rescued, and taken to Cuba. He had no part in
selecting the foreign port as his destination, His itinerary
was forced on him by wholly fortuitous circumstances.
If, nonetheless, his return to this country was an "entry"
into the United States within the meaning of the Act, the

DELGADILLO v. CARMICHAEL.
388

Opinion of the Court.

law has been given a capricious application as Di Pasquale
v. Karnuth,supra, suggests'.
In that case an alien traveled between Buffalo and Detroit on a railroad which, unknown to him, passed through
Canada. He was asleep during the time he was in transit
through Canada and was quite unaware that he had left
or returned. to thig country. The court refused to hold
that the alien had made an "entry," for to do so would
impute to Congress a,'purpose to subject aliens "to the
sport of chance." 158 F. 2d 879. In this case petitioner,
of course, chose to return to this country, knowing he, was
in a foreign place. But the exigencies of war, not his voluntary act, put him on foreign soil.1 It would indeed be
harsh to read the statute so as to add the peril of deportation to such perils of the sea. We might as well hold
that if he had been kidnapped and taken to Cuba, he made
a statutory "entry" on his voluntary return. Respect for
law does not thrive on captious interpretations.
Deportation can be the equivalent of banishment or
exile. See Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U. S. 135, 147. The
stakes are indeed high and momentous for the alieS who
has acquired his residence here. We will not attribute
to Congress a purpose to make his right to remain here
dependent on circumstances so fortuitous and capricious
as those upon which the Immigration Service has here
seized. The hazards to which we are now asked to subject
the alien are too irrational to square with the statutory
scheme.
Other grounds are now sought to be advanced for the
first time in support of the deportation order. They are
not open on the record before us.
Reversed.
1 If his intercoastal voyage had continued without interruption, it
is clear that he would not have made an "entry" when he landed at
its termination., United States ex rel. Claussen v. Day, supra,
p. 401.

