SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK.
463

469

Syllabus.

in the criminal courts of Lauderdale County. When a
jury selection plan, whatever it is, operates in such way
as always to result in, the complete and long-continued exclusion of any representative at all from a large group
of Negroes, or any other racial group, indictments and
verdicts returned against them by juries thus selected
cannot stand. As we pointed out in Hill v. Texas, 316
U. S. 400, 406, our holding does not mean that a guilty
defendant must go free. For indictments can be returned
'and convictions can be obtained by juries selected as the
Constitution commands.
The judgment of the Mississippi Supreme Court is reversed and the case is remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

SILESIAN-AMERICAN

CORP. ET AL. v. CLARK,
ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS SUCCESSOR TO THE
ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 6.

Argued May 1, 1947.-Reargued November 12, 1947.Decided December 8,1947.

1. Pursuant to the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by
the First War Powers Act of 1941, and Executive Order 9095,
as amended, the Alien Property Custodian issued an order vesting
in himself title to certain shares of stock in petitioner, a Delaware
corporation, and directing petitioner to cancel the certificates for
such stock outstanding on its books and to issue new certificates
to the Custodian. The order contained a finding that, although
prior to August 31, 1939, the shares stood on the books of petitioner in the name of a Swiss corporation, they were held for the
benefit of a German corporation, and constituted property belonging to a national of Germany. It was contended that the shares
were pledged to certain Swiss banks as collateral for a loan.
Held: The Custodian's order is valid and must be complied with.
Pp. 474-479.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Statement of the Case.

332 U. S.

2. Petitioner has no legal interest in the issue as to ownership of its
stock and no standing to represent the interests of its shareholders
or pledgees of its stock. P. 474.
3. Under the war power, which includes reasonable preparation for
war, the United States, acting under a statute, may summarily
reduce to possession in furtherance of the war effort any property
in this country of any alien; and the problems of compensation
may await the judicial process. Pp. 474-477.
4. The vesting order of the Custodian was authorized by § 5 (b) (1)
of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and Executive
Order 9095, as amended. P. 477.
(a) The fact that the stock certificates did not come into the
hands of the Custodian is immaterial. P. 477.
(b) The power to require the issuance of new certificates was
incidental to the Custodian's power to vest in himself the property
of a foreign national, including stock ownership in an American
corporation. P. 477.
5. Sections 5 (b) (2) and 7 (e) of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
as amended, protect petitioner from any liability to bona fide
holders of its shares by reason of any infirmity in the Custodian's
vesting order or his direction that new certificates be issued to
him. Pp. 477-478.
6. The Custodian's vesting order was not contrary to § 8 (a) of the
Trading with the Enemy Act, which formerly exempted property
pledged to "any person not an enemy or ally of enemy"; because
the later enactment of § 5 (b) (1) rendered § 8 (a) inapplicable
to the property of friendly aliens. Pp. 478-479.
7. The Constitution guarantees to friendly aliens the right to just
compensation for the requisitioning of their property by the United
States; and it must be assumed that the United States will meet
its obligations under the Constitution. Pp. 479-480
156 F. 2d 793, affirmed.

A Bankruptcy Court instructed a corporation in reorganization proceedings under Chapter X to comply with
an order of the Alien Property Custodian vesting in himself shares of the corporation's stock outstanding in the
namhe of a friendly alien and directing the corporation
to cancel the shares on its books and to issue new certificates therefor to the Custodian. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 156 F. 2d 793. This Court denied

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK.
469

471

Opinion of the Court.

certiorari, 329 U. S. 730; but, on rehearing, granted certiorari and substituted the Attorney General, successor
to the Alien Property Custodian, as the party respondent.
330 U. S. 852. Affirmed, p. 480.
Leonard P. Moore argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were George W. Whiteside and
William Gilligan.
James C. Wilson argued the cause on the original argument for respondent. With him on the brief were Acting
Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Harry LeRoy Jones, Al. S. Isenbergh, James
L. Morrissonand John Ward Cutler.
James L. Morrisson reargued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Bazelon and M. S. Isenbergh.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Alien Property Custodian on November 17, 1942,
executed Vesting Order No. 370. This order was issued
under the authority of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
40 Stat. 411, as amended, and Executive Order No. 9095,
as amended, and in terms vested the property therein
described in the Alien Property Custodian in the interest
and for the benefit of the United. States. The order
found the property to belong to a national of Germany.
The property covered by the order was two blocks of
stock--one common, one preferred-in the Silesian
American Corporation, a Delaware corporation, hereinafter called Silesian. The stock, prior to August 31, 1939,
stood in the stockbook of Silesian in the name of Non
Ferrum Gesellschaft zur Finanzierung von Unternehmungen des Bergbaues und der Industrie der 'Nichteisenmetalle, Zurich, Switzerland, a Swiss corporation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

hereinafter referred to as the Non Ferrum Company.
Non Ferrum, it was determined by the Custodian's order,
held the stock for the benefit of Bergwerksgesellschaft
Georg von Giesche's Erben, a German corporation. The
certificates, it is asserted, had been deposited as security
for loans with a group of banks, all of which apparently
were chartered by Switzerland and are hereinafter referred
to as the Swiss Banks.1
To carry out the purpose of his vesting order, the Custodian directed Silesian to cancel on its books the outstanding Non Ferrum certificates, above referred to, and
to issue in lieu thereof new certificates to the Custodian.
This controversy revolves around the objection of
Silesian so to act because the Custodian did not have
physical possession of the pledged Non Ferrum certificates so as to be able to surrenider them for cancellation,
as the corporation's by-laws i'equired. Silesian feared
liability to the holders of the Non Ferruim certificates for
issuing other certificates in such circumstances.
Silesian had been a debtor funder Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act since July 30, 1941. It therefore asked
the Bankruptcy Court for instructions as to its compliance
with the Custodian's directiqn. The other petitioner
here, Silesian Holding Compady, a Delaware corporation
also, appeared and throughout has remained as a party
to this litigation. It is the majdrity stockholder of Silesian
but claims no different or other interest in the issue than
Silesian. For the purpose of this case, it may and will be
treated as having'no more interest in the issue than Silesian has. The Swiss Banks asked the Reorganization
Court to give instructions to the Debtor that no new shares
be issued until the controversy between the Swiss Banks
and the Custodian could be "fully, firmly and finally adTley are Union Bank of Switzerland, La Roche & Company,
Banque Cantonale de Berne, and Aktiengesellschaft Leu & Company.

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK.
469

473

Opinion of the Court.

judicated." This prayer was based on a verified answer to
Silesian's request for instruction, which answer alleged
that the "Swiss Banks were the owners of the 'Non Ferrum' stock." The Swiss Banks notified Silesian that any
issue of new certificates representing the Non Ferrum
stock, with or without court direction, would be at Silesian's risk. Affidavits supporting the objection of the
Swiss Banks to instructions to Silesian to issue the new
certificates to the Custodian were filed with the District
Court. These affidavits declared the Non Ferrum stock
was pledged, prior to 1938, to groups of Swiss banks. It
is not clear whether they are the same institutions that are
named in the answer of the Swiss Banks to the Debtor's
request for instructions. For the purpose of this case, we
assume that the groups are identical.
The District Court instructed the debtor to issue new
certificates to the Alien Property Custodian. The.court
said:
"The vesting order of the Custodian found that the
stock was held for the benefit of an enemy. The
statutory discharge from liability, § 5b or § 7e,
[Tradingwith the Enemy Act] protects the debtor
corporation and relieves it of doubt in the
premises."
The court added:
"Whatever may be the interests or rights of the Swiss
banks, they cannot be considered here. Hearsay
statements, unsupported by documents, allege that
these banks are pledgees of the stock. These statements create no issue for our consideration. The
banks are parties herein only to the extent that they
have been recognized in the reorganization proceeding as possible owners of a claimed interest which
they have never been called upon to prove. They
are not here because of any action taken against them

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

or any recognition given them by the Custodian or
even by reason of any established interest in the
stock."
No appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was taken by
the Swiss Banks. They do not appear here as parties to
this writ of certiorari or otherwise. We therefore express
no opinion as to the effect of the order and decision of
the District Court upon the claims of the Swiss Banks
as pledgees of the Non Ferrum stock. See SilesianAmerican Corporationv. Markham, 156 F. 2d 793, 795.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals by
Silesian. That court affirmed the order of the Bankruptcy Court. We first denied a petition for certiorari
and then granted it so that this case might be considered
in relation to other issues, thereafter presented here, in
connection with the administration of the Trading with
the Enemy Act. 329 U. S. 730 and 330 U. S. 852; Clark v.
Uebersee Finanz-Korporation,330 U. S. 813.
It was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals that Silesian
had no "standing vicariously" to assert the interests of
its shareholders. We agree. Silesian has no legal interest in the issue as to the ownership of its stock. It
follows that Silesian has no standing to represent the
interests of the pledgees of the Non Ferrum shares, if
that is the present position of those shares. See Anderson
Nat. Bank v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233, 242. This reduces
petitioners' objection to the order directing the issue of
new certificates in favor of the' Custodian for the Non
Ferrum stock to the claim that the sections of the Trading with the Enemy Act under which the Custodian acted
are invalid as applied to Silesian in these circumstances.
If the provisions-do not authorize the order and direction,
Silesian, over its own objections, cannot be compelled to
obey.
Th6 Custodian vested the stock in himself by virtue of
the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by the First

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK.
469

475

Opinion of the Court.

War Powers Act of 1941, including, of course, § 5 (b) (1),2
and Executive Order No. 9095, C. F. R. Cum. Supp. 1121,
as amended 1174. This property was vested during war.
There is no doubt but that under the war power,8 as heretofore interpreted by this Court, the United States, acting under- a statute, may vest in itself the property of a
national of an enemy nation. Unquestionably to wage
war successfully, the United States may confiscate enemy
property. United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272
U. S. 1, 11." Nor can there, we think, be any doubt that
any property in this country of any alien may be summarily reduced to possession by the United States in fur2 Trading

with the Enemy Act, 40 Stat. 411, as amended by the

First War Powers Act of 1941, 55 Stat. 839, § 5 (b) (1):
"During the time of war. or during any other period of national
emergency declared by the President, the President may, through
any agency that he may designate, or otherwise, and under such
rules and regulations as he may prescribe, by means of instructions,
licenses, or otherwise"(B) investigate, regulate, direct and compel, nullify, void,
prevent or prohibit, any acquisition holding, withholding, use,
transfer, withdrawal, transportation, importation or exportation
of, or dealing in, or exercising any right, power, or privilege with
respect to, or transactions involving, any property in which any
foreign country or a national thereof has any interest,
by any person, or with respect to any property, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and any property or interest of any
foreign country or national thereof shall vest, when, as, and upon
the terms, directed by the President, in such agency or person as
may be designated from time to time by the President, and upon
such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe such
interest or property shall be held, used, administered, liquidated,
sold, or otherwise dealt with in the interest of and for the benefit
of the United States, and such- designated agency or person may
perform any and all acts incident to the accomplishment or further.
ance of these purposes;.
3Art. I, § 8, el. 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the C,,,-urt.

332 U. S.

therance of the war effort. Eve y resource within the
ambit of sovereign power is subject. to use for the national
defense. This section was amended during war to cover
the taking of alien property. It'is limited to a war or a
declared emergency period. While a natural hesitancy
exists against so interpreting the war power clause as to
expand its scope to cover incidents not intimately connected with war, we think reasonable preparation for the
storm of war is a proper exercise of the war power. This
seizure of alien property, in a time of emergency, is of that
character. We need not consider whether the general
welfare clause could be a source of congressionat-.ower.
over alien property2 This takiiig may be done as-a
means of avoiding the use of the property to draw earnings or wealth out of this country to territory where it
may more likely be used to assist the enemy than if it
remains in the hands of this government. Or the commandeered property of a friendly alien may be used to
prosecute the war. ,Theproblems of compensation may
await the judicial process.

Central Union Trust Co. v.

4 Compare with the statement below:
"The power of Congress
to,.seize and confiscate enemy property rests upon Art. 1, § 8, Clause
11 of the Constitution. Stoehr v. Wallace, supra, 255 U. S. at page
242 . . . ; United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc., 272 U. S. 1,
J1 ....
Whether it exists at international law may be doubted; but
nobody conteids that the war power of Congress includes the seizure
of the property of friendly aliens. - The amendment of § 5.(b) must
therefore rest upon some other power of Congress, not only for
.. that reason, but because the amendment itself was expressly not
limited to time of war (although it was in fact passed flagrante bello)
but was to go into effect upon any 'national emergency declared.' It
can rest upon Art. 1, § 8, Clause 1: i. e. upon the power 'to provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare'; indeed, so far as we
can see, the 'debtor does not challenge the power itself, but its exer"cise. It complains that the amendment delegates an unrestricted
discretion to the President, and does not provide 'just compensation'
for seizures." 1 6 F. 2d 793,796..

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARK
469

479

Opinion of the Court.

direction, even though this seizure is contrary to § 8 (a),
a way has been found to "coerce an interested party
[Silesian] into compliance with his [the Custodian's]
unlawful actions." The answer to this contention is
made by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It makes unnecessary-any discussion of the protection afforded Silesian
by § 7 (e) and § 5 (b) (2) from the claims of a pledge of
stock exempted by statute from seizure. 156 F. 2d at 797.
When § 5 (b) (1) was enacted as an amendment in the
First War Powers Act of 1941, it authorized the taking
of any property or interest therein of any foreign national. This broadening of the scope of the Custodian's
power to vest so as to include interests of friendly aliens
in property includes the power to vest the interest which
friendly aliens have from pledges. As the Circuit Court
of Appeals said, p. 797:
"Any other interpretation of the section would make
the pledges of friendly aliens a wholly irrational exception to the general purpose to subject all alien
interests to seizure."
Therefore, as we hold that § 5 (b) (1) rendered § 8 (a)
inapplicable to the property of friendly aliens, the
order of the Custodian was valid and Silesian's objection
disappears.
Finally there is the argument that Silesian cannot be
compelled to issue the new certificates because the
friendly aliens who claim interests in the Non Ferrum
stock may not succeed in recovering the just compensation for the taking. See Russian Volunteer Fleet v.
United States, 282 U. S. 481, 489.! The Constitution
guarantees to friendly aliens the right to just compensa7 The Circuit Court of Appeals said: "Thusr it can be argued with
much force that, unless some provision can be found by which he
may secure compensation, § 5 (b) is unconstitutional; and, if so,
it would at best be doubtful whether the protection given by subsection (2) would be valid." 156 F. 2d 793, 797.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

tion for the requisitioning of their property by the United
States. Russian Fleet v. United States, supra. We must
assume that the United States will meet its obligations
under the Constitution. Consequently, friendly aliens
will be compensated for any property taken and Silesian
is protected by the exculpatory clauses of the Act from
any claim from its alien stockholders.
Judgment affirmed.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

CLARK, ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS SUCCESSOR
-TO THE ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.
UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORPORATION, A. G.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 35.

Argued May 1, 1947.-Reargued November 12, 1947.Decided December 8, 1947.

1. Respondent, a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland and having its principal place of business in that country, sued
under § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act to reclaim property which the Alien Property Custodian had vested in himself
under § 5 (b), as amended by the First War Powers Act of 1941.
The property seized consisted of shares of stock in.corporations
-organized under the laws of various States of this Nation and of an.
interest in a contract between two such corporations and, according
to the allegations of the complaint which are assumed to be true, was
free of all enemy taint-i. e., the corporations whose shares had been
seized, the corporations which had a contract in which respondent
had an interest, and respondent itself, were corporations in which
n6 .enemy, ally of an enemy, or any national of either, had any
interest of any kind whatsoever, and respondent had not done
business in the territory of the enemy or any ally of an enemy.
Held: Respondent is entitled to maintain the suit. Pp. 482-490.

