OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

corporation's property may be retained where only a
fractional enemy ownership appears, are left undecided.
Since we assume from the allegations of the complaint
-that respondent is free of enemy taint and -herefore is
not within the definition of enemy or ally of an enemy,
those problems are not now before us. We recognize
their importance; but they must await legislativeI or
judicial clarification.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

WILLIAMS ET AL. v. FANNING, POSTMASTER OF
LOS ANGELES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided December 8, 1947.

1. Those against whom the Postmaster General has issued a postal
fraud order may sue the local postmaster to enjoin him from
carrying out the order; and the Postmaster General is not an
indispensable party. Pp. 492-494.
2. The superior officer is an indispensable party if a decree granting
the relief sought will require him to take action, either by exercising
directly a power lodged in him or by having a subordinate exercise
it for him. Pp. 492-493.
3. The superior officer is not an indispensable party if the decree
which is entered would effectively grant the relief desired by expending itself on the subordinate official who is before the court. Pp.
493-494.
158 F. 2d 95, reversed.
*See 60 Stat. 50, adding § 32 (a) (2) (E) to the'Act.

WILLIAMS v. FANNING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court dismissed a suit to enjoin a postmaster from carrying out a fraud order issued by the Postmaster General. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
158 F. 2d 95. This Court granted certiorari. 331 U. S.
797. Reversed, p. 494.
Richard L. North argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief was Irving M. Walker.
FrederickBernays Wiener argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Herbert A. Bergson, Paul A. Sweeney and Melvin
Richter.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case, here on certiorari to resolve a conflict between the circuits,' presents the q..estion whether those
against whom the Postmaster General has issued apostal
fraud order may sue the local postmaster to enjoin him
from carrying out the order or whether the Postmaster
General is an indispensable party.
The Postmaster General, after a hearing in Washington, D. C., found that petitioners' weight-reducing enterprise was fraudulent. He accordingly issued a fraud
order (R. S. §§ 3929, 4041, 39 U. S. C. §§ 259, 732)
directing respondent, postmaster at Los Angeles, California (where petitioners do business) to refusepayment
of any money order drawn to the order of petitioners, to
I The Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant case followed its
earlier decisions holding that the Postmaster General was an indispensable party. Neher v. Harwood, 128 F. 2d 846; Dolphin v. Starr,
130 F. 2d 868. Accord: National Conference v. Goldman, 85 F. 2d
66 (Second Circuit). Contra: Jarvis v. Shackelton Inhale& Co.,
136 F. 2d 116 (Sixth Circuit). For collection and review of the
cases see 158 A. L. R. 1126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

advise the remitter of such money order that payment had
been forbidden, and to stamp "fraudulent" on all mail
matter directed to petitioners and to return it to the
senders.
Petitioners thereupon brought this suit in the District
Court for the Southern District of California to enjoin
respondent from carrying out the order,' claiming that
they had been deprived of the-hearing to which they were
entitled and that the fraud order was without the support
of substantial evidence. On motion of respondent the
District Court dismissed the complaint, holding in accord
*with the view of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals I
that the Postmaster General was an indispensable party.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 158 F. 2d 95.
It was long assumed that the Postmaster General was
not an indispensable party in these fraud order cases.
Beginning at least with American School of Magnetic
Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S.94, decided in 1902, the
maintenance of the suit against the local postmaster alone
was not challenged.'
Meanwhile, another line of cases was emerging, Warner Valley Stock Co. v. Smith, 165 U. S.28, held that a
suit against the Secretary of the Interior to compel him
to issue patents to public lands abated on his resignation. * As the purpose of the bill was "to control the action
of the Secretary of the Interior" (165 U. S. p. 34), he was
held to be an indispensable party. Next came Gnerich v.
Rutter, 265 U. S.388, which was a suit to enjoin a representative of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from
2

Jurisdiction was invoked-under § 24 (6) of the Judicial Code,

28 U.S.C.§41 (6).
3 See note 1, supra.
4 And see Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497; Leach v.
Carlile,258 U. S. 138.

WILLIAMS v. FANNING.
490

Opinion of the Court.

enforcing a restriction embodied in a permit issued under
the National Prohibition Act. The subordinate official,
acting for the Commissioner, had refused to give plaintiffs
the more liberal permit which they desired; and he had
no power to grant the desired permit without revision
of his delegated authority. The Commissioner was held
to be an indispensable party. Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S.
507, followed. That was a suit brought by an Osage
Indian to require payment to him of funds under an act
of Congress. The power and responsibility of making the
payments being in the Secretary of the Interior, he was
held to be an indispensable party.
These cases evolved the principle that the superior
officer is an indispensable party if the decree granting
the relief sought will require him to take action, either
by exercising directly a power lodged in him or by having
a subordinate exercise it for him.
That principle was brought into clearer relief by Colorado v. Toll, 268 U. S. 228. There the director of national parks had issued regulations forbidding operation
in the Rocky Mountain National Park of automobiles
for hire. Toll was the superintendent of the park who
was enforcing the regulation. A suit to enjoin him was
allowed to be maintained without joining his superior,
the director, who had promulgated the regulation. That
result followed, 268 U. S. p. 230, by analogy to those cases
which permit suit against a public official who invades a
private right either by exceeding his authority or by carrying out a mandate of his superior. United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S.196; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605, 619, 620. In those ,situations relief against the
offending officer could be granted without risk that the
judgment awarded would "expend itself on the public
treasuiry or domain, or interfere with the public administration." Land v. Dollar,330 U. S.731, 738.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

But the distinction we have noted between these two
lines of cases apparently was not as clear to others as
it seems to us. For a conflict among the circuits developed in these postal fraud cases. 5 National Conference
v. Goldman, 85 F. 2d 66, which held that the Postmaster
General must be made a party, suggested that if he were
not, the local postmaster would be left under a command
of his superior to do what the court has forbidden, But
that seems to us immaterial if the decree which is entered
will effectively grant the relief desired by expending itself
on the subordinate official who is before the court. It
seems plain in the present case that that will be the result
even though the local postmaster alone is sued. It is he
who refuses to pay money orders, who places the stamp
"fraudulent" on the mail, who returns the mail to the
senders. If he desists in those acts, the matter is at an
end. That is all the relief which petitioners seek. The
decree in order to be effective need not require the Postmaster General to do a single thing-he need not be required to take new action either directly as in the Smith
and Fall cases or indirectly through his subordinate as in
the Rutter case. No concurrence on his part is necessary
to make laiwful the payment of the money orders and the
release of the mail unstamped. Yet that is all the court
is asked to command.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

5 See note 1, supra.

and MR. JUSTICE BURTON dissent.

