FAY v. NEW YORK.
Syllabus.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
NO. 377.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued April 3, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. New York Judiciary Law § 749-aa, 29 McKinney's L. N. Y., pp.
511-515, providing for the administrative selection of a special or
"blue ribbon" jury panel from the general jury panel in counties

of one million or more inhabitants and the use in certain classes of
cases of juries drawn from this special panel, does not on its face
deny defendants in criminal -cases due process of law or equal
protection of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.

Pp. 270-272.
(a) This Court cannot find it constitutionally forbidden to set
up in a metropolis 'with congested court calendars administrative
procedures in advance of trial to eliminate from the jury panel
those who, in a large proportion of cases, would be rejected by
the court after its time had been taken in examination tQ ascertain
the disqualifications. P. 271.
(b) These are local matters with which local authority must and
does have considerable latitude to cope, for they affect the, administration of justice which is a local responsibility. P. 271.
(c) There is nothing in the standards prescribed for the selection
of the special panel which, on its face, is prohibited by the Constitution. Pp. 267-268, 270-272.
2. Petitioners have not sustained the burden of showing that their
trial by a jury drawn from such a special panel denied them equal
protection of the laws. Pp. 272-286.
(a) It is not proven that laborers, operatives, craftsmen, foremen
and service employees were systematically, intentionally and deliberately excluded from the special panel. Pp. 273-277.
(b) Nor is it proven that women were so excluded--especially
in view of the fact that three women talesmen were examined
and one. served on the jury in this case. Pp. 277-278.
(c) The elimination from the special panel of persons who, in
replying to a questionnaire, expressed a preference to serve during
certain months is of no constitutional significance and of no prejudice to petitioners. P. 278.
*Together with No. 452, Bove v. New York, also on certiorari to
the same Court.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

(d) Petitioners have not sustained the burden of proving that
in 1945, when they were tried, the special panel was so composed as
to be more prone to convict than the general panel. Pp. 278-286.
3. The statute providing for the special jury does not violate the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Glasser v.
United States, 315 U. S. 60; Thiel v. Southern Pacific Co., 328 U. S.
217; Ballard v. United States, 329 U. S. 187, distinguished. Pp.
286-296.
(a) There being no constitutional requirement that juries shall
include women, their partial exclusion from the general and special
jury panels (by making their service voluntary instead of compulsory) was not a denial of lue process. Pp. 289-290.
(b) A lack of proportional representation of an economic class
comprising laborers, craftsmen and service employees, which does
not result from an intentional and purposeful exclusion of any
class but from tests of intelligence, citizenship and understanding
of English applied alike to all prospective jurors, does not violate
the Due Process Clause. Pp. 290-294.
4. In considering whether the statute is administered so as to produce
unconstitutional results, this Court must examine the evidence and
reach its own conclusions as to the facts. P. 272.
5. Since Congress has considered the specific application of the Fourteenth Amendment to the-state jury systems and has found only
discriminations on account of "race, color, or previous condition
of servitude" to deserve general legislative condemnation (8 U. S. C.
§ 44), one who would have the judiciary intervene on other grounds
must comply with the exacting requirements of proving clearly
that in his own case the procedure has gone so far afield that its
results are a, denial of equal protection or due process. Pp. 282-284.
6. It is fundamental in questioning the composition of a jury that
a mere showing that a class was not represented in a particular
jury is not enough; there must be a clear showing that its absence
was caused by discrimination. P. 284.
7. When discrimination of an unconstitutional kind in the selection
of a jury is alleged, the burden of proving it purposeful and intentional is on the defendant. P. 285.
8. In considering whether the method of selecting a jury violates
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the
inquiry is whether defendants receivdd less favorable treatment
than otherg. P. 285.
9. This Court may exort a supervisory power over federal proceedings with ,reater freedom to reflect its notions of good policy than it

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Syllabus.

may constitutionally exert over proceedings in state courts, and
these expressions of policy are not necessarily embodied in the
concept of due process, P. 287.
10. The commandments of the Sixth and Seventh Amendments,
which require jury trial in criminal and certain civil cases, are not
made applicable to the states by the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 288.
11. Due process requires a real hearing by a tribunal unbiased by
interest in the event; but an accused is not entitled to a set-up
that will give a chance of escape after he is properly proven
guilty. He has no constitutional right to friends on the jury.
Pp. 288-289.
12. The state's right to apply tests of intelligence, citizenship and
understanding of English in selecting jurors is not open to doubt,
even though they disqualify a disproportionate number of manual
workers. P. 291.
13. This Court is unable to say that mere exclusion of jurors of one's
occupation renders a jury unconstitutional, even though the occupation tends to give those who practice it a particular and distinctive viewpoint. P. 292, n. 35.
14. There is some discretion left in the states to say that persons
in some occupations are more needed at their work than on jury
duty and, perhaps, that some have occupational attitudes that
make it appropriate to leave them off the list so long as an unexceptionable list remains on call. P. 292, n. 35.
15. The function of this Court under the Fourteenth Amendment
with reference to state juries is not to prescribe procedures but
is essentially to protect the integrity of the trial process by whatever method the state sees fit to employ. P. 294.
16. Beyond requiring conformity to standards of fundamental fairness that have won legal recognition, this Court adheres to a policy
of self-restraint in interpreting the Fourteenth Amendment and
will not use that Amendment to impose uniform procedures upon.
the several' states, whose legal systems stem from diverse, sources
.of law and reflect different historical influences. Pp. 294-295.
17. No violation of a federal statute being alleged, a successful
challenge to this judgment under the Due Process Clause depends
on a showing that these defendants have. had a trial so unfair as
to amount to a taking of their liberty without due process of law;
and such a showing has not been made. P. 296.
296 N. Y. 510,68 N. E. 2d 453, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

In a state court in New York County, a special or socalled "blue ribbon" jury impaneled pursuant to N. Y.
Judiciary Law § 749-aa, 29 McKinney L. N. Y., pp. 51115, convicted petitioners of extortion and conspiracy to
extort. The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court
of New York affirmed. 270 App. Div. 261, 59 N. Y. S.
2d 127. The Court of Appeals of New York affirmed.
296 N. Y. 510, 68 N. E. 2d 453. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 697. Affirmed, p. 296.
Harold R. Medina argued the cause for petitioner in
No. 377. With him on the brief were Robert J. Fitzsimmons and Richard T. Davis.
Moses Polakofi and Samuel Mezansky submitted on
brief for petitioner in No. 452.
. Whitman Knapp argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Frank S. Hogan, Joseph A.
Sarafite and Eugene A. Leiman.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases present the same issue, a challenge to the
constitutionality of the special or so-called "blue ribbon"
jury as used by state courts in the State and County of
New York.
Such a jury found Fay and Bove guilty of conspiracy
to extort and of extortion. Bove was Vice-President
of,the Internationa Hod Carriers, Building and Common Laborers' Union of America. Fay was Vice-President of the International Union of Operating Engineers. The City of New York awarded contracts for
construction of an extensive project known as the Delaware Water Supply system to several large construction
concerns. It was not denied that Fay and Bove collected

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

from these contractors upwards of $300,000.

But it was

denied that payment was induced by threats to do unlawful injury to person or property. The defense claimed
that the payments were voluntary-bribes, perhaps, but
not extortion-that these men were paid merely for undertaking to assist the contractors to avoid labor trouble, to
prevent jurisdictional or unauthorized strikes, and to
"handle the labor situation," and that Fay and Bove
rendered service as agreed.
The indictment charged the crimes in seven counts.
One was dismissed by the court; the remaining six were
submitted to the jury. The jury acquitted the defendants
on three of the counts, disagreed on another, and convicted on two counts. The convictions were affirmed on
appeal by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court,'
which reviews both law and fact, 2 and by the Court of

Appeals.3 No federal question is raised as to the merits
of the finding of guilt and we are to assume that the convictions were warranted by the evidence and, except for
questions as to the special jury, were regular. While
there was rhallenge to the panel from which this jury was
drawn, on ground oi denial of federal due process and
equal protection, each individual juror was accepted by
the defendants without challenge for cause. The challenge to the special jury panel was not discussed by either
of the appellate courts of the State but the federal questions were sufficiently and timely raised throughout and
were overruled by all state courts. A dual system of
juries presents easy possibilities of violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and we took these cases by certiorari to examine the charges of unconstitutionality. 329
U. S. 697.
'270 App. Div. 261, 59 N. Y. S. 2d 127.
2

Code of Criminal Procedure, §§ 520, 543-a, 66 McKinney's Con-

solidated Laws of New York, part 2, pp. 328-26, 429.
296 N. Y. 510, 68 N. E. 2d 453.
3

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

The question is whether a warranted conviction by a
jury individually accepted as fair and unbiased should be
set aside on the ground that the make-up of the panel
from which they were drawn unfairly narrows the chpice
of jurors and denies defendants due process of law or equal
protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution. If answered in
the affirmative, it means that no conviction by these
special juries is constitutionally valid, and all would be
get aside if the question had been properly raised at or
_efore trial.
-. The defendants raise no question as to the constitutionality of the general statutes of New York which presbribe the qualifications, disqualifications and exemptions
for ordinary jury service. Neither is any question raised'
as to the administration of these general statutes by which
the population of New York County, numbering some
1,800,000, is sifted to produce a general jury panel of about
60,000, unless it be that there is discrimination against
women.' It is from this panel that defendants insist, apart
from any objection they may have as to improper exclusion of women even from the general panel, they had a
constitutional right to have their trial jury drawn. The
statutes advanced as a standard may be roughly
summarized:
To qualify as a juror, a person must be an American
citizen and a resident of the county; not less than 21 nor
more'than 70 years old; the owner or spouse of an owner
of property of the value of $250; in possession of his or
her natural faculties and not infirm or decrepit; not convicted of a felony or a.misdemean'or involving moral turpitude; intelligent; of sound mind and good character;
'But 7,000 of the 60,000 on the general jury panel, or 11%, are
women. It is almost frivolous to assert that there is a bias against
their inclusion on juries. Cf. Akins.v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398, 403.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

well-informed; able to read and write the English language understandingly.' From those qualified the followinE classes are exempt from service: clergymen, physicians, dentists, pharmacists, embalmers, optometrists,
attorneys, members of the Army, Navy or Marine Corps,
or of the National Guard or Naval Militia, firemen, policemen, ship's officers, pilots, editors, editorial writers, subeditors, reporters and copy readers.'
Women are equally qualified with men," but as they
also are granted exemption,8 a.woman drawn may serve
or not, as she chooses.
The attack is focused upon the statutes and sifting
procedures which shrink the general panel to the special
or "blue ribbon" panel of about 3,000.
Special jurors are selected from those accepted for
the general panel by the county clerk, but only after
each has been subpoenaed for personal alpearance and
has testified under oath as to his qualification and fitness.' The statute prescribes standards for their selection by declaring ineligible and directing elimination of
these classes: (1) All who have been disqualified or who
claim and are allowed exemption from general service.
(2) All who have been convicted of a criminal offense, or
found guilty of fraud or misconduct by judgment of any
civil court. (3) All who possess such conscientious opinions with regard to the death penalty as would preclude
their finding a defendant guilty if the crime charged be
5 Judiciary Law, § 596, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New
York (pocket part, 1946), pp. 131-32.
6 Judiciary Law, § 599, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of New
York (pocket part, 1946), pp. 133-34.
TJudiciary Law, § 596, supra.
.8Judiciary Law, § 599, supra.
9 Judiciary Law, § 749-aa3, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of
New York, pp. 512-13.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

punishable with death. (4) All who doubt their ability
to lay aside an opinion or impression formed from newspaper reading or otherwise, or to render an impartial verdict upon the evidence uninfluenced by any such opinion
or impression, or whose opinion of circumstantial evidence is'such -s would prevent their finding a verdict of
guilty upon such evidence, or who avow such a prejudice
against any law of the State as would preclude finding a
defendant guilty of a violation of such law, or who avow
such a prejudice against any particular defense to a criminal charge as would prevent giving a fair and impartial
trial upon the merits of such defense, or who avow that
they cannot in all cases give to a defendant who fails to
testify as a witness in his own behalf the full benefit of
the statutory provision that such defendant's neglect or
refusal to testify as a witness in his own behalf shall not
create any presumption against him.'0
The special jury panel is not one brought into existence
for this particular cas3 nor for any special class of offenses
or type of accused. It is part of the regular machinery
of trial in counties of one million or more inhabitants.
In its sound discretion the court may order trial by special
jury on application of either party in a civil action and
by either the prosecution or defense in criminal cases.
The inotion may be granted only on a showing that "by
reasonof the importance or intricacy of the case, a special
/jury is required" or "the issue to be tried has been so
widely commented upon . . . that ah ordinary jury cannot without delay and difficulty be obtained" or that for
azy other reason "the due, efficient and impartial administration of justice in the particular case would be
10 Judiciary Law, § 749-aa2, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of
New York, p. 512.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

advanced by the trial of such an issue by a special
jury ....
This special jury statute is not recent nor is the practice under it novel. The progenitor of this statute, like
it in all pertinent respects, was enacted in 1896 but was
repealed and simultaneously reenacted in substantially its
present form in 1901.12 It was soon attacked as on its
face violating the State Constitution. The claim of one
convicted by a special jury that it was an unconstitutional
body because its restrictive composition denied due process
of law, was rejected by the Court of Appeals in a wellconsidered opinion. People v. Dunn, 157 N. Y. 528, 52
N. E. 572 (1899). The attack then was made from the
opposite direction. One convicted by an ordinary jury
claimed that it was an unconstitutional body. This claim
that the special panel had withdrawn twenty-five hundred "men of presumably superior intelligence," 162 N. Y.
at 362, 56 N. E. at 759, too, was rejected by the Court of
-Appeals. People v. Meyer, 162 N. Y. 357, 56 N. E. 758
(1900).
Then, in 1901, an attack on the constitutionality of the
statute was rejected by this Court. One Hall had been
convicted of murder by a special jury and sentenced to
death. He sued out a writ of habeas corpus which was
denied below. He challenged the special panel and
claimed that his conviction by its verdict was a denial of
due process of law and of equal protection of the laws in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment because the jury
was "taken from a particular body of citizens and not
from the general body of the county as was provided in
all cases wherein such special jury was not drawn." 'This
Court affirmed, Hall v. Johnson, 186 U. S. 480, citing
'1 Judiciary Law, § 749-aa4, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of
New York, pp, 513-14.
12 N. Y. Laws 1896, c. 378; N. Y. Laws 1901, c. 602.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

among other authorities Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.
172, which upheld a state statute for a "struck jury." 13
Since these decisions, the special jury has been in continuous use in New York County in important cases. The
District Attorney cites over one hundred murder convictions, on verdict of the special jury, considered by the
Court of Appeals which affirmed judgments of death. We
are asked, however, to reconsider the question and, in the
light of more recent trends of decision and of particular
facts about the present operation of the jury system not
advanced in support of the argument in the earlier case,
to disapprove the special jury system.
We fail to perceive on its face any constitutional offense
in the statutory standards prescribed for the special panel.
The Act does not exclude, or authorize the clerk to exclude,
any person or class because of race, creed, color or occupation. It imposes no qualification of an economic nature
beyond that imposed by the concededly valid general panel
statute. Each of the grounds of elimination is reasonably
and closely related to the juror's suitability for the kind
of service the special panel requires or to his fitness to
judge the kind of cases for which it is most frequently
utilized. Not all of the grounds of elimination would
appear relevant to the issues of the present case. But we
know of no right of defendants to have a specially constituted panel which would include all persons who might
13'The other cases cited in the per curiam affirmance were Storti v.
Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138, 141, and Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.
272, both of which disapprove the use of habeas corpus as a substitute
for writ of error. It is not clear, therefore, how much the affirmance
of the Hall case depended on that procedural ground rather than on
a disposition of the merits. Moreover, the -grounds urged against
the special jury in that case related to its selection from a panel which
was only a segment of the general panel and did not assert the
exclusion of particular groups.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

be fitted to hear their particular and unique case. This
panel is for service in a wide variety of cases and its eliminations must be judged in that light. We cannot overlook that one of the features which has tended to discredit
jury trials is interminable examination and rejection of
prospective jurors. In a metropolis with notoriously congested court calendars we cannot find it constitutionally
forbidden to set up administrative procedures in advance
of trial to eliminate from the panel those who, in a large
proportion of cases, would be rejected by the court after
its time had been taken in examination to ascertain the
disqualifications., Many of the standards of elimination
which the clerk is directed to apply in choice of the panel
are those the court would have to apply to excuse a juror
on challenge for cause.
These are matters with which local authority must and
does have considerable latitude to cope, for they affect
the administration of justice which is a local responsibility.
For example, in this case the time of the trial court and
its entire retinue of attendants was taken while eightynine prospective jurors were examined. How many more
would have been examined if the clerk had not ilready
eliminated those who admit that they would not give
defendants benefit of the rule that their neglect or refusal
to testify in their own behalf would not create a presumption against them? Neither of these defendants saw fit
to take the witness stand. The defendants themselves
have complained of the exceptional publicity given to the
charges in this case. How many more jurors would have
been examined if the clerk had not already eliminated
those who felt themselves subject to influence by publicity? These are practical matters in administering justice in which we will take care not to hamstring local
authority by artificial or doctrinaire requirements.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

It has consistently been held that a jury is not rendered
constitutionally invalid by failure of the statute to set
forth any standards for selection. Murray v. Louisiana,
163 U. S. 101, 108; Franklinv. South Carolina,218 U. S.
161, 167-68; Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398, 403; see also
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 348. We find nothing
in the standards New York has prescribed which, on
its face, is prohibited by the Constitution. There
remain, however, more serious questions as to whether
the special jury Act has been so administered as to deny
due process to the defendants and whether the dual system
of jury panels as administered denied equal protection of
the laws.
As to the actual results of application of. the statute,
the litigants are in controversy. The New York courts,
doubtless influenced by the fact that long ago they had
upheld similar statutes, made no findings of fact and
wrote no opinion on the subject. It is to be regretted
that we must deal with questions of fact without aid of
findings by the courts whose experience with the system
-and proximity to the local conditions with which the special jury customs are so interwoven would entitle their
findings to very great weight. We would, in any case, be
obliged on a constitutional question to reach our own
conclusions, after full allowance of weight to findings of
the state courts, and in this case must examine the evidence. Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590; Lisenba v.
California,314 U. S. 219, 237-38; Ashcraft v. Tennessee,
322 U. S. 143i 148.
The allegations of fact upon which defendants ask us
to hold these special panels unconstitutional come to
three: (1) That laborers, operatives, craftsmen, foremen
and service employees were systematically, intentionally
and deliberately excluded from the panel. (2) That

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

women were in the same way excluded. (3) That the
special panel is so composed as to be more prone to convict
than the general panel.
(1) The proof that laborers and such were excluded
consists of a tabulation of occupations as listed in the
questionnaires filed with the clerk. The table received
in evidence is set out in the margin.1 ' It is said in criticism of this list that it shows the industry in which these
14The

table was prepared at the request of petitioners' counsel by
an attorney who testified that he "found various occupations listed"
and "tried to classify them to groups, making them not too
numerous."
Total number of special jurors on file in New York County
Clerk's Offi ce .......................................... 2,911
Total number with classifiable occupations .................. 2,743
166
Auditors and accountants .................................
170
Bankers ................................................
M anufacturers ..........................................
106
117
Real Estate Brokers .....................................
62
Retired ................................................
229
Architects and engineers ..................................
27
Educators, teachers, librarians ............................
470
Executives, managers of industrial enterprises ...............
185
Stock brokers ..........................................
Salesmen, promoters of business, enterprises and advertising
438
m en ...................................................
Newspaper men, editorial writers and others engaged in the
148
dissemination of information ............................
M echanics ..............................................
5
166
Insurance m en ..........................................
Travel agency men ........... *...........................
10
21
Civil service employees ....................................
94
Office clerks .............................................
144
Retail m erchants ........................................
26
Entertainers ............................................
70
Building and construction superintendents ......... ........
66
Chemists and physicists ..................................
5
A ttorneys............. ..................................
Laborers ................................................ N one

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

persons work rather than whether they are laborers or
craftsmen; that is, "mechanics" may be and probably
are also laborers; "bankers" may be clerks. Certainly
the tabulation does not show the relation of these jurors
to the industry in which they were classified, as, for example, whether they were owners or financially interested,
or merely employees. It does not show absence or exclusion of wage earners or of union members, although none
listed themselves as 'laborers," for several of these classes
are obviously of the employee rather than the entrepreneur character. One of petitioners' tables showed that
38% of the special panel were "clerical, sales, and kindred
workers." Three of those examined as jurors in this case
were members of labor unions. Two were peremptorily
challenged by the People and the one accepted by the
prosecution was challenged by the defense.
It is sought to give significance to this exhibit showing the breakdown into occupations of some 2,700 special
jurors, however, by reference to a tabulation of occupations of some 920,000 employees and persons seeking employment in Manhattan. The comparison is said to show
a great disparity between the percentage of jurors of each
-occupation represented on the jury list of 1945 and
the occupational distribution of the number of employed
persons or experienced persons seeking employment in
..................
Labor union representatives .....
Housewives ..............................................

1

20

are only about 30 women on the entire special jury listPetitioners' attorneys requested the Bureau of Labor Statistics of
the United States Department of Labor to conform the classifications
of the above table to the Census classifications. In the table thus
prepared, twenty-one persons are classed as civil service employees
and a note cautions that "Some members of this group undoubtedly
belong elsewhere, as uinder service trades, or laborers." One hundred
and sixty-five persons are listed as unclassifiable in the Bureau's
table.
-There

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

275

Opinion of the Court.

Manhattan in 1940. This table was not put in evidence
but is reproduced in the margin.15 Apart from the discrepancy of five years in the dates of the data and- the
15
OCCUPATIONS OF EMPLOYED PERSONS (EXCEPT ON PUBLIC EMERGENCY
WORK) AND OF EXPERIENCED WORKERS SEEKING WORK, RESIDING
IN MANHATTAN IN THE WEEK OF MARCH 24 TO 30, 1940, COMPARED
WITH OCCUPATIONS OF SPECIAL JURORS ON FILE IN NEW YORK
COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE; JANUARY 31, 1945.
-Experienced Labor Force [a]
Males

Total
Occupation

Total [b]--------------Professional and semiprofessional ------ _-------------Proprietors, managers and officials ------------------_--Clerical, sales and kindred
workers ---------------------Craftsmen, foremen and kindred workers. ...............
Operatives and kindred workers -------------------------Service workers ................
Laborers, except farm ..........
Farmers, farm managers, farm
......
---------------laborers

Total

Employed
[c]

A

B

921,183 778,202

Seeking
work
experenced
C

Total

D

142,981

589,431

E

F

489,618

99,813

Special
Jurors

G
2,664

111,600

98,343

13,257

61,191

53, 41A

7,775

501

85,969

81,234

4,735

73, 732

69, 509

4,223

1, 146

196,037

169,066

26,971

112,316

95,853

16,463

1,012

70,497

54,217

16,280

67,504

51,618

15, 886

156,581 128,253
254,595 216,992
45,375 29,869

28,328
37,603
15, 506

98,493
131,112
44, 578

79,562
110,157
29,293

18,931
20,955
15,285

301

505

210

295

........

529

228
Percent

Total ------------------Professional and semiprofessional ---------------------Proprietors, managers and officials ------ _----_---------Clerical, sales and kindred
workers ......................
Craftsmen, foremen and kindred workers .................
Operatives and kindred Workers ..-........................
Service workers ................
Laborers, except farm ..........
Farmers, farm managers, farm
laborers ......-...............

Employed
[e]

Seekin
work
experienced

5
........
-------........

Percent

1 00.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

12.1

12.6

.3

10.4

9.3

10.4

10.9

7.8

19.8

3.3

12.5

14.2

4.2

'21.3

43.0

21.7

18.9

19.1

19..6

16.5

38.0

7.7

7.0

11.4

11.4

10.5

15.9

0.2

17.0
27.6
4.9

16.5
27.9
1.8

19.8
26.3
10.8

16.7
22.2
7.6

16.2
22.5
6.0

19.0 .......
21.0 -------15.3 ......

0.2

.0.1

1d]

-

0.1

[d]

0.3 ........

(a] Includes the employed (except'those on public emergency work) and experienced workers seeking work. Source: U. S. Bureau of the Census. Sixteenth Census of the United'
States 1940 Population, v. III, part 4 New York State Table 10a, pp. 363-365.
persons, and others not In the
labor
Omitting the unclassified, as well as housewives, retired
fb] force.
c] Except on public emergency work.
d] Less than one-tenth of one percent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

differences in classification of occupations, the two tables
do not afford statistical proof that the jury percentages
are the result of discrimination. Such a conclusion would
be justified only if we knew whether the application of
the proper jury standards would affect all occupations
alike, of Which there is no evidence and which we regard
as improbable. The percentage of persons employed or
seeking employment in each occupation does not establish
even an approximate ratio for those of each occupation
that should appear in a fairly selected jury panel. The
former is not limited, as the latter must be, to those over
21 or under 70 years of age. It is common knowledge
that many employed and seekers of employment in New
York are not, as jurors must be, citizens of the United
States. How many could not meet the property qualifications? How many could not read and write the English language understandingly? It is bnly after effect is
given to these admittedly constitutional requirements that
we would- have any figures which determined or even
suggested the effect of the additional disqualifications
imposed on special jurors.
An occupational comparison of the special panel with
the general panel might afford some ground for an opinion
on the effect of the particular practices complained of in
the composition of the special panel. But no such comparison is offered. Petitioners' only statement as to the
comparative mbIte-up of the general and special panels is
as follows: "While the defect of discrimination against
women, particularly those who are not members of socalled 'civic conscious' organizations, permeates both the
general and special juries; there is no evidence whatever
that laborers, operatives, service- employees, craftsmen,
,and foremen, are excluded from the general jury panel."
What is more to the point is that petitioners adduced no

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

evidence whatever that the occupational composition of
the general panel is substantially different from that of
the special. If they are the same, then petitioners' assertion that Question 23, referred to below, somehow separates the rich from the poor is obviously without merit.
It is not unlikely that the requirements of citizenship,
property and literacy disqualify a greater proportion of
laborers, craftsmen and service employees than of some
other classes. Those who are illiterate or, if literate in
their own, are unable to speak or write the English language, naturally find employment chiefly in manual work.
It is impossible from the defendants' evidence in this case
to find that the distribution of the jury panel among occupations is not the result of the application of legitimate
standards of disqualification.
On the other hand, the evidence that there has been no
discrimination as to occupation in selection of the panel,
while from interested witnesses, whose duty it was to
administer the law, is clear and positive and is neither
contradicted nor improbable. The testimony of those in
charge of the selection, offered by the defendants themselves, is that without occupational discrimination they
applied the standards of the statute to all whom they
examined. We are unable to find that this evidence is
untrue.
(2) As to the eclusion of women, it will be remembered
that the law of New York gives to women the privilege
to serve but does not impose service as a duty. It is
said to have been found impractical to compel large numbers of women, who have an absolute exemption, to come
to the clerk's office for examination since they so generally
assert their exemption. Hence, only those who volunteer
or are suggested as willing to serve by other women or by
organizations, including the League of Women Voters, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

subpoenaed for examination. Some effort is made by the
officials also to induce women to volunteer. But the evidence does not show that women are excluded from the
special jury. In this case three women talesmen were
examined. One was pronounced "satisfactory" by both
sides and served on the jury.
As to both women and men, it is complained that eliminations resulted unfairly from use of a questionnaire,
which asked, "What months of the year between October 1
and June 30 would you prefer to serve (Name two or more
months)." Those who stated'a preference, and they were
many, were excluded from the special panel although they
continued eligible for the general panel. The reason given
for this is that service on the general panel can be adjusted
to such preferences while the special panel, because of the
nature of the cases tried before it, may require service at
any time and for long periods. We think the phrasing of
this question is less than candid in view of this purpose.
But we find no evidence that it operates more misleadingly
on women than on men, or on one occupation or class than
on others. While it does not commend itself, it~appears
to be an administrative ineptitude of no constitutional
significance and of no prejudice to these defendants.
(3) A more serious allegation against the special jury
panel is that it is more inclined than the general panel to
convict. Extensive studies have been made by the New
York State Judicial Council which is under the duty of
continuous study of the procedures of the courts and of
making recommendations for improvement to the Legislature.18 It is on studies and criticisms by this official body
that petitioners base their charge here that the special
jury is a convicting jury in an unconstitutional sense.
16Judiciary Law, §§ 40-48, 29 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of
New York, pp. 58-62, (pocket part, 1946), p. 17.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

261

In 1937 the Council recommended abolition of struck
juries,' foreign juries Is and special juries.'" It said that,
"A well-administered ordinary jury system should produce
jurors of as high calibre for every action as the special jury
system attempts to provide in exceptional cases." I The
recommendation was followed by the Legislature except as
to special juries. In 1938 the Judicial Council renewed its
recommendation as to these. It summarized that its data
"indicate that special juries are prone to convict." 21 In
a study of certain types of homicide cases, it found that, in
1933 and 1934, special juries convicted in eighty-three percent and eighty-two percent of the cases while ordinary
juries those years convicted in forty-three percent and
thirty-seven'percerit respectively. It reported that, "The
Judicial Council believes that every petit jury should be
of uniformly high calibre and capable of giving a fair trial
in all cases. To attain this goal, the ordinary jury, as now
provided, may be in need of improvement. It is, however, unjust and should be unnecessary -to select sup17 To obtain a struck jury, the commissioner of jurors or the county

clerk, in the presence of the parties, selected from the general jury
list the names of forty-eight persons whom he deemed most indifferent
between the parties and best qualified to try the case. The parties
then alternately would each strike off twelve names from the list.
The jury was chosen from the remaining twenty-four names.
18 The foreign jupy was chosen from a county adjoining that where
the trial was to be held, in cases in which it was thought a more impartial jury would thus be had. It lost its usefulness because of the
ease with which a change of venue might be obtained. Code of
Criminal Procedure, § 344.2, 66 McKinney's Consolidated Laws of
New York, part 1, p. 622.
19Third Annual Report of the Judicial Council of the State of
New York (1937) 123-28.
20Id. at

127.

Fourth Annual Report of the Judicial Council of the State of
New York (1938) 46.
2'

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

posedly special juries in specific cases." 2 The Council
next year reported that the general panel had not been
considered adequate, largely because in its selection the
standards of the statute had not been followed, and that a
complete reexamination of the general panel was undertaken."3 From time to time the Council renewed its
recommendation. In 1945 it proposed that the special
jury "be abolished as unnecessary and undesirable." It
said, "It is undisputed that the revised jury system for
New York City recommended by the Judicial Council
and in operation since 1940 has succeeded in improving
the quality of jurors generally by applying to all jurors
the high standards which formerly were required only of
special jurors. Thus, the necessity for special jurors no
longer exists." "

While the Judicial Council has pointed out and investigated the different conviction ratios, it has at no
time suggested that the special jury has been inclined
to convict except where conviction was warranted. New
York extends*an appeal on law and fact as matter of
right.' If there were a tendency to convict improperly,
the Judicial Council, which includes the Chief Judge of
the Court of Appeals and the Presiding Justice cf the
Appellate Division, which courts review these cases, would
know it. Despite the Council's desire to abolish this jury,
no such reasons were ever assigned. No statistics are produced to show that special juries have been more often
reversed on the facts than ordinary ones. Of course, it
would be impossible for us to say, even were we to examine
the cases in detail, whether the difference in percentage of
22Id.at

47.

23Fifth Annual Report of the Judicial Council of the State of New

York (1939) 42-43.
24Eleventh Annual Report of the Judicial Council of the State of
New York (1945) 49-50.
2 See note 2, supra.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

convictions indicated a too great readiness to convict on
the part of special juries or a too great readiness to acquit
on the part of ordinary juries, or whether the disparity
reflected a difference between the ordinary case and those
selected for special jury trial, rather than a reflection of
an attitude on the part of either panel. It may result
from the greater attention and better counsel which the
prosecution gives to these important cases.
These defendants were convicted March 15, 1945, when
the statistics offered here as to relative propensity of the
two juries to convict were more than ten years old, and
when the conditions which may have produced the discrepancy in ratio of convictions had long since been
corrected.
The evidence in support of these objections may well,.
as the Judicial Council thought, warrant a political or
social judgment that this special panel in 1945 was "unnecessary and undesirable" and that the Legislature
should abolish it. But it is quite another matter "to
say that this Federal Court has a mandate from the Constitution to disable the special jury by setting aside its convictions. The great disl;arity between a legislative policy
or a political judgment on the one hand and a constitutional or legal judgment on the other, finds striking
illustration in the position taken by the highest judicial
personages in New York Statc who joined in the.
recommendation to hbolish the special jury.
Two members 6 of the Council who joined in proposing
legislation to abolish the dual system sat in this case and
abstained from putting their legislative recommendation
into a court decision-they sustained as constitutional the
system they would abolish as matter of policy. Our
function concerns only constitutionality and we turn to
2

r Loughran, Ch. J., New York Court of Appeals, and Martin, P. J.,
App. Div. (Ist Dept.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

the bearing of federal constitutional provisions on the
legal issues.
It is not easy, and it should not be easy, for defendants
to have proceedings set aside and held for naught on
constitutional grounds when they have accepted as satisfactory all of the individual jurors who sat in their
case, the jury exercised such discriminating and dispassionate judgment as to acquit them on three of the
five counts submitted, and their conviction on a full judicial review of the facts and law has been found justified.
This Court has long dealt and must continue to deal with
these controversies from state courts with self-imposed
restraints intended to protect itself and the state against
irresponsible exercise of its unappealable power.
While this case does not involve any question as to
exclusion of Negroes or any other race, the defendants
rely largely upon a series ofdecisions in which this Court
has set aside state court convictions of Negroes because
Negroes were purposefully and completely excluded from
the jury. However, because of the long history of unhappy relations between the two races, Congress has put
these cases in a class by themselves. The Fourteenth
Amendment, in addition to due process and equal protection clauses, declares that "The Congress shall have
power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions
of this Article." So empowered, the Congress on March 1,
1875, enacted that "no citizen possessing all other qualifications which are or may be prescribed by law shall be
disqualified for service as grand or petit juror in any
court of the United States, or of any State, on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servitude;" and
made it a crime for .any officer to exclude any citizen on
those grounds. 18 Stat. 336-37, 8 U. S. C. § 44. For
us the majestic generalities of the Fourteenth Amendment are thus reduced t'o a concrete statutory command when cases involve race or color which is

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

wanting in every other case of alleged discrimination.
This statute was a factor so decisive in establishing 'the
Negro case precedenits that the Court even hinted that
there might be no judicial power to intervene except
in matters authorized by Acts of Congress. Referring
to the provision empowering Congress to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment, it said that "All of the amendments
derive much of their force from this latter provision.
It-is not said the judicial power of the general government
shall extend to enforcing the prohibitions and to protecting
the rights and immunities guaranteed. It is not said that
branch of the government shall be authorized to declare
void any action of a State in violation of the prohibitions.
It is the power of Congress which has been enlarged.
Congress is authorized to enforce the prohibitions by ap-.
propriate legislation." (Italics in original.) Ex parte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 345.
It is significant that this Court never has interfered
with the composition of state court juries
except in cases
where this guidance of Congress was applicable. In an
opinion by Mr. Justice Holmes it unanimously made short
work'of rejecting a claim that the Fourteenth Amendment
prohibits the state from excluding from the jury certain
occupational groups such as lawyers, preachers, ministers,
doctors, dentists, and engineers and firemen of railroad
trains. Rawlins v. Georgia,201 U. S. 638. Cf. Brown v.
New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172.
We do not mean that no case of discrimination in jury
drawing except those involving race or color can carry
su ch unjust consequences as to amount to a denial of
equal protection or due process of law. But we do say
that since Congress has considered the specific application
of this Amendment to the state jury systems and has
found only these discriminations to deserve general legislative condemnation, one who would have the judiciary
intervene on grounds not covered by statute must comply

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

with the exacting requirements of proving clearly that
ip his own case the procedure has gone so far afield that
its results are a denial of equal protection or due
process."'
These rules to confine our use of power to responsible
limits have been formulated and applied even in cases
where the federal race and color statute applied. Certainly they should apply with equal, if not greater, rigor
in cases that are outside the statute.
It is fundamental in questioning the composition of
a jury that a mere showing that a class was not represented in a particular jury is not enough; there must be
a clear showing that its absence was caused by discrimination, and in nearly all cases it has been shown to have
persisted over many years.'
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S.
313, 322-23; Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316, 320-21;
Thomas v. Texas, 212 U. S. 278, 282; Smith v. Texas, 311
27

It is unnecessary to decide whether the equal protection clause of

the Fourteenth Amendment might of its own force prohibit discrimination on account of race in the selection of jurors, so that such discrim-

ination would violate the due process clause of the same Amendment.
Nor need we decide whether the due process clause alone outlaws
such discrimination. Cf. Hill v. Texas, 316 U. S. 400, 406: "But no
State is at liberty to impose upon one charged with crime a discrimination in its trial procedure which the Constitution, and an Act of
Congress passed pursuant to the Constitution, alike forbid. . . . it is
our duty as well as the State's to see to it that throughout the pro-

cednre for'bringing him to justice he shall enjoy the protection which
-

the Constitution guarantees. Where, as in this case, timely objection
has laid bare a discrimination in the selection of grand jurors, the
conviction cannot stand, because the Constitution prohibits the.

procedure by which it was obtained. Equal protection of the laws is
-something more than an abstract right. it is a command which the
State must respect, the benefits of which every person may demand."
*8Official records of the New York county clerk show that in the
fLve-year period, 1940-44, 2,407 new jurors were put on the special

1atiel which is maintained at about 3,000, and 2,692 persons were
removed from thelist.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 128; Hill v. Texas, 816 U. S. 400; Akins v. Texas,
supra. Also, when discrimination of an unconstitutional
kind is alleged, the burden of proving it purposeful. and
intentional is on the defendant. Tarrancev. Florida,188
U. S. 519; Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316; Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587; Snowden v. Hughes, 321 U. S. 1, 8-9;
Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398,400.
Our only source of power or guidance for interfering
in. this case with the state court jury system is found in
the cryptic words of the Fourteenth Amendment, unaided
by any word from Congress or any governing precedent
in this Court. We consider first the clause which forbids
a state to "den- to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws." This prohibits prejudicial
disparities before the law. Under it a system which might
be constitutionally unobjectionable, if applied to all, may
be brought within the prohibition if some -have more
favorable treatment. The inquiry under this clause involves defendants' standing before the law relative to
that of others accused.
If it were proved that in 1945 an inequality between
the special jury's record of convictions and that of the
ordinary jury continued as it was found by the Judicial
Council to have prevailed in 1933-34, some foundation
would be laid for a claim of unequal treatment. No defendant has a right to escape an existing m~chanism of
trial merely on the ground that some other could be
devised which would give him a better chance of acquittal.
But in this case an alternative system actually was provided by the state to other defendants. A state is not
required to try all classes of offenses in the same forum.
But a discretion, even if vested in the court, to shunt
a defendant before a jury so chosen as greatly to lessen
his chances while others accused of a like offense are
tried by a jury so drawn as to be more favorable to them,
would hardly be "equal protection of the laws." Perhaps

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

it could be shown that the difference in percentages of
convictions was not due to a difference in attitude of the
jurors but to a difference in the cases that were selected
for special jury trial, or to a more intensive preparation
and effort.by the prosecution in cases singled out for such
trial. But a ratio of conviction so disparate, if it continued until 1945, might, in absence of explanation, be
taken to indicate that the special jury was, in contrast to
its alternate, organized to convict. A defendant 'could
complain of this inequality even if it were shown that a
special jury court never had convicted any defendant who
did not deserve conviction.
But the defendants have failed to show by any evidence
whatever that this disparity in ratio of conviction existed
in 1945 when they were tried. *They show that it ever
existed only by the studies and conclusions of the Judicial
Council. The same source shows that it was corrected
before these defendants were tried. As we have pointed
out, this official body challenged the fairness of this dual
system as formerly constituted and as early as 1937 declared that "A well-considered jury systep will insure an
impartial cross-section of the community on every petit
jury,"' and set out means to achieve it. We know of
no reason why we should ignore or discredit their assurance that by administrative improvements in the selection
of the ordinary juries they became the substantial equivalent of the special jury before these trials took place.
We hold, therefore, that defendants have not carried
the burden of -showing that the method of their trial
denied them equal protection of the law.
The defendants' other objection is grounded on that
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides,
"nor shall any State deprive any l erson of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law

....

"

It com-

Third Annual Report of the Judicial Council of the State of New
York (1937) 123.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

287

Opinion of the Court.

prises objections which might be urged against any jury
made up as the special jury was, even if it were the only
jury in use in the state. It does not depend upon
comparison with the jury facilities afforded other
defendants.
This Court, however, has never entertained a defendant's objections to exclusions from the jury except when
he was a member of the excluded class. Rawlins v.
Georgia, 201 U. S. 638, 640. Cf. Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303. Relief has been held unavailable
to a negro who objected that all white persons were purposely excluded from the grand jury that indicted him.
Haraway v. State, 203 Ark. 912, 159 S. W. 2d 733. Nevertheless, we need not here decide whether lack of identity
with an excluded group would alone defeat an otherwise
well-established case under the Amendment.
These defendants rely heavily on arguments drawn from
our decisions in Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60;
Thiel v. Southern Pacific Co., 328 U. S. 217; and Ballard
v. United States, 329 U. S. 187. The facts in the present
case are distinguishable in vital and obvious particulars
from those in any of these cases. But those decisions were
not constrained by any duty of deference to the authority
of the State over local administration of justice. They
dealt only with juries in federal courts. Over federal proceedings we may exert a supervisory power with greater
freedom to reflect our notions of good policy than we may
constitutionally exert over proceedings in state courts, and
these expressions of policy are not necessarily embodied in
the concept of due process.
The due process clause is one of comprehensive generality, and in reducing it to apply in concrete cases there
are different schools of thought. One is that its content
on any subject is to be determined by the content of
certain relevant other Amendments in the Bill of Rights
which originally imposed restraints on -only the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Government but which the Fourteenth Amendment deflected against the states. The other theory is that the
clause has an independent content apart from, and in
addition to, any and all other Amendments. This meaning is derived from the history, evolution and present
nature of our institutions and is to be spelled out from
time to time in specific cases by the judiciary.
To treat first of the former doctrine, it steadily has
been ruled that the commandments of the Sixth and
Seventh Amendments, which require jury trial in criminal
and certain civil cases, are not picked up by the due process
clause of the Fourteenth so as to become limitations on
the states. "This court has ruled that consistently with
those amendments trial by jury may be modified by
a state or abolished altogether." Palko v. Connecticut,
302 U. S. 319, 324, and cases there cited. Unless we
are now so to change our interpretation as to withdraw
from the states the power so lately conceded to be theirs,
this would end the matter under the view that the force
of the due process clause is exhausted when it has applied
the principles of other relevant Amendments.
But this Court has construed it to be inherent in the
independent concept of due process that condemnation
shall be rendered only after a trial, in which the hearing is
a real one, not a sham or pretense. Palko v. Connecticut,
302 U. S. 319, 327; Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103;
Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S. 86. Trial must be held
before a tribunal not biased by interest in the event.
Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510. Undoubtedly a system of
exclusions could be so manipulated as to call a jury before
which defendants would have so little chance of a decision'
on the evidence that it would constitute a denial of due
process. A verdict on the evidence, however, is all an
accused can claim; he is not entitled to a set-up that will
give a chance of escape after he is properly proven guilty.
Society also has a right to a fair trial. The defendant'g

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

right is a neutral jury. He has no constitutional right to
friends on the jury.
To establish the unfairness of this tribunal and the lack
of due process afforded to one who is being tried before it,
the defendants assert two defects in its composition: first,
that it unconstitutionally excluded women, and, second,
that it unconstitutionally excluded laborers, craftsmen,
service employees, and others of like occupation, amounting in sum to the exclusion of an economic class.
Assuming that defendants, not being women, have
standing to complain of exclusion of women from the general and special jury panels, we are unable to sustain their
objection. Approximately 7,000 women were on the general panel of 60,000 and 30 were on the special panel. One
served on the jury which convicted the petitioners. The
proportion of women on the jury panels did not equal their
proportion of the population. There may be no logical
reason for this, but there is an historical one. Until recently, and for nearly a half-century after the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted, it was universal practice in the
United States to allow only men to sit on juries. The first
state to permit women jurors was Washington, and it did
not do so until 1911.'
In 1942 only 28 states permitted
women to serve on juries and they were still disqualified in
the other 20. Moreover, in 15 of the 28 states which permitted women to serve, they might claim exemption be,cause of their sex.'
It would, in the light of this history,
30 1911 Laws of Washington, c. 57.

See Carson, Women Jurors

(1928).
81Report to the Judicial Conference of the Committee on Selection
of Jurors (1942) 23. A later bulletin of the Women's Bureau of the
United States Department of Labor showed that in 1945, 31 States
permitted jury service by women, exemption being allowed in 15 of
them. But 17 States still withheld their approval of women on
juries. A pamphlet of the Women's Bureau, as yet unpublished,
shows that at this time four more states find women acceptable as
jurors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

take something more than a judicial interpretation to spell
out of the Constitution a command to set bside verdicts
rendered by juries unleavened by feminine influence. The
contention that women should be on the jury is not based
on the Constitution, it is based on a changing view of the
rights and responsibilities of women in our p;ablic life,
which has progressed in all phases of life, including jury
duty, but has achieved constitutional compulsion on the
states only in the grant of the franchise by the Nineteenth
Amendment. We may insist on their inclusion on federal
juries where by state law they are eligible 32 but woman
jury service has not so become a part of the textual or
customary law of the land that one convicted of crime
must be set free by this Court if his state has lagged behind
what we personally may regard as the most desirable
practice in recognizing the rights and obligations of
womanhood.
The other objection which petitioners urge under the
due process clause is that the special jury panel was invalidated by exclusion of an economic group comprising such
specified classifications as laborers, craftsmen and service
employees. They argue that the jury panel was chosen
"with a purpose to obtain persons of conservative views,
persons of the upper economic and social stratum in New
York County, persons having a tendency to convict defendants accused of crime, and to exclude those who might
understand the point of view of the laboring man." As we
have'pointed out, there is no proof of exclusion of these. 3
82 See Judiciai Code, §§ 275, 276, 28 U. S. C. §§ 411, 412; Ballard v.
United States, 329 U. S. 187.
8 It is worth comment that the annual.reports of the Judicial Council, on which petitioners heavily rely, although they urge strongly and
persistently that the special jury be abolished, do not give as one of
the reasons the social make-up of the panel. This is odd, if that

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

.291

Opinion of the Court.

At most, the proof shows lack of proportional representation and there is an utter deficiency of proof that this
was the result of a purpoge to discriminate against this
group as such. The uncontradicted evidence is that no
person was excluded because of his occupation or economic
status. All were subjected to the same tests of intelligence, citizenship and understanding of English. The
state's right to apply these tests is not open to doubt even
though they disqualify, especially in the conditions that
prevail in New York, a disproportionate number of manual workers. A fair application of literacy, intelligence
and other tests would hardly act with proportional equality on all levels of life. The most that the evidence does is
to raise, rather than answer, the question whether there
was an unlawful disproportionate representation of lower
income groups on the special jury.
Even in the Negro cases, this Court has never undertaken to say that a want of proportionate representation
of groups, which is not proved to be deliberate and intentional, is sufficient to violate the Constitution. Akins v.
Texas, 325 U. S. 398. If the Court has hesitated to require proportional representation where but two groups
need be considered and identification of each group is
fairly clear, how much more imprudent would it be to require proportional representation of economic classes.
The occupations which are said to comprise the economic
class allegedly excluded from the special panel are separated by such uncertain lines that the defendants' two
exhibits are based on different classifications which are
numerous and overlapping.
No significant difference in viewpoint between those
allegedly excluded and those permitted to serve has been
reason were valid, since the Council obviously was interested in urging
all good reasons which would support its strong disapproval and its
reiterated recommendation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

proved and nothing in our experience permits us to assume
it." It would require large assumptions to say that one's
present economic status, in a society as fluid as ours, determines his outlook in the trial of cases in general or of this
one in particular. There is of course legitimate conflict
of interest among economic groups, but they are so many
and so overlie each other that not all can be significant.
There is entrepreneur and wage-earner, consumer and producer, taxpayer and civil servant, foreman and laborer,
white-collar worker and manual laborer. But we are not
ready to assume that these differences of function degenerate into a hostility such that one cannot expect justice at
the hands of occupations and groups other than his own.
Were this true, an extremely rich man could rarely have a
fair trial, for his class is not often found sitting on
juries.'
Nor is there any Such persuasive reason for dealing with
purposeful occupational or economic discriminations if
they do exist as presumptive constitutional violations, as
would be the case with regard to purposeful discriminations because of race or color. We do not need to find
31 Cf. Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638, 640: "The nature of the
classes excluded was not such as was likely to affect the conduct of the
members as jurymen, or to make them act otherwise than those who
were drawn would act."
8 We are unable to say that mere exclusion of jurors of one's occupation renders a jury unconstitutional, even though the occupation tends
\to give those who practice it a particular and distinctive viewpoint.
)qew York has some 20,000 policemen presumably otherwise qualified
for jury service. It is not unknown that a defendant is a policeman.
Can he not be constitutionally tried if policemen are exempt from

service or even excluded from the panel? There is some discretion
left in the states to say that persons in some occupations are more
needed at their work than on jury duty and, perhaps, that some have
occupational attitudes that make it appropriate to leave them off the
list so long as an unexceptionable list remains on call. Cf. Rawlins v.
Georgia, 201 U. S. 638.

See Knox, Selection of Federal Jurors, 31

Journal of the American Judicature Society 9, 11.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

prejudice in these latter exclusions, but cf.

trauder v.

West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 306-309, for Congress has

forbidden them, and a tribunal set up in defiance of its
command is an unlawful one whether we think it unfair or
not. But as to other exclusions, we must find them such
as to deny a fair trial before they can be labeled as
unconstitutional.
There may be special cases where exclusion of laborers
would indicate that those sitting were prejudiced against
labor defendants, as where a labor leader is on trial on
charges growing out of a labor dispute. The situation
would be similar to that of a Negro who confronts a jury
on which no Negro is allowed to sit. He might very well
say that a community which purposely discriminates
against all Negroes discriminates against him. But it is
quite different if we assume that "persons of conservative
views" do predominate on the special jury. Does it follow that "liberals" would be more favorably disposed
toward a defense that nominal labor leaders were hiring
out to employers to "handle" their labor problems?
Does it follow that a jury from the "upper economic and
social stratum" would be more disposed to convict those
who so undertake to serve two masters than "those who
might understand the point of view of the laboring man"?
We should think it might be the other way about and defendants offer nothing but assertion to convince us. Our
attention, moreover, is called to federal court records
which show that Fay reported a net taxable income of over
$65,000 for the years 1940 to 1942, while Bove reported
over $39,000 for a similar period, both of them exclusive
of the sums received from the contractors and involved in
these charges. These earnings do not identify them very
closely with the viewpoint of the depressed classes. The
group with which they might be most closely identified .is
organized labor. But it cannot be claimed that union
members were excluded from this special panel since three

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

union members were called for examination on this particular jury, two being rejected by the People and one by
the defendants themselves. The defendants have shown
no intentional and purposeful exclusion of any class, and
they have shown none that was prejudicial to them.
They have had a fair trial, and no reason appears why'
they should escape its results.
The function of this federal Court under the Fourteenth
Amendment in reference to state juries is not to prescribe
procedures but is essentially to protect the integrity of the
trial process by whatever method the state sees fit to
employ. No device, whether conventional or newly
devised, can be set up by which the judicial process is
reduced to a sham and courts are organized to convict.
They must be organized to hear, try and determine on the
evidence and the law. But beyond requiring conformity
to standards of fundamental fairness that have won legal
recognition, this Court always has been careful not so to
interpret this Amendment as to impose uniform procedures upon the several states whose legal systems stem
from diverse sources of law and reflect different historical
influences.
English common law is the source from which it often is
assumed a uniform system was derived by the States of the United
States, it must not be overlooked that many of them have been deeply
"While

influenced by Roman and civil law to which their history exposed
them. None of the territory west of the Alleghenies was more than
briefly or casually subject to common law before the Revolution.

French civil law prevailed in most of the Ohio and Mississippi Valleys
from their settlement until Wolfe's decisive victory before Quebec in
1763. Its ascendancy in the north then was broken, and in 1803 the
Louisiana Purchase ended French sovereignty in the rest of the
Mississippi area. Louisiana continues, however, a system of law based
on the Code Napoleon. The Southwest and Florida once were Spanlih. See Colvin, Participationof the United States of America with
She Republics of Latin America in the Common Heritage of Roman

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

Opinion of the Court.

We adhere to this policy of self-restraint and will not
use this great centralizing Amendment to standardize
administration of justice and stagnate local variations in
practice. The jury system is one which has undergone
great modifications in its long history, see People v. Dunn,
157 N. Y. 528, 52 N. E. 572, and it is still undergoing revision and adaptation to adjust it to the tensions of time
and locality. In no place are American institutions. put
to greater strain than in: the City of New York with its
some seven and a half million inhabitants gathered from
the four corners of the earth and a daily transient flow of
two million, with all that this implies of difficulty in law
enforcement. The citizen there, as in other jurisdictions,
has been called for jury service to perform a variety of
functions-the grand jury, the petit jury, the sheriff's
jury, the coroner's jury, the foreign jury, the struck jury,
and Civil Law, 10 Proceedings of the Eighth American Scientific
Congress 467.
Even among the early seaboard States, the English common law had
rivals. The Swedes on the banks of the Delaware held one of the
earliest jury trials on this continent. The Governor followed Swedish
law and custom in calling to his aid in judging "assistants" who were
selected from among "the principal and wisest inhabitants" and were
both judges and jurors and sometimes witnesses. See 1 Johnson,
The Swedish Settlements on the Delaware (1911) 450 et seq. In New
York, there was a deep and persistent influence from Roman Dutch
law. Upon capitulation of New Amsterdam, it was stipulated that
certain Dutch law, and judgments and customs should be respected.
But even beyond this, in the organization of the courts the Dutch rule
persisted although contrary to the "Duke's Laws" enacted by the
conqueror. The history of the early Dutch influence in New York
court procedure was preserved by the diligence and foresight of Judge
Daly. 1 E. D. Smith's Reports (New York Common Pleas) xvii,
xxxiv, xxxvii. The Roman-Dutch element in New York law is recognized by its courts, e. g., Dunham v. Williams, 37 N. Y. 251, 253; Van
Giessen V. B'idgford, 83 N. Y. 348, 356; Smith V.Rentz, 131 N. Y. 169,
175, 30 N. E. 54, 56.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

and the special jury. The states have had different and
constantly changing tests of eligibility for service. Evolution of the jury continues even now, and many experiments are under -way that were strange to the common
. law. Some states have taken measures to restrict its use;
others, where jury service is a hardship, diminish the
required number of jurors. Some states no longer require
the unanimous verdict; others add alternate or substitute
jurors to avoid mistrial in case of sickness or death.
Some states have abolished the general verdict and require
answers to specific questions." Well has it been said of
our power to limit state action that "To stay experimentation in things social and economic is a grave responsibility.
Denial of the right to experiment may be fraught with
serious consequences to the Nation. It is one of the
happy incidents of 'the federal system that a single
courageous State may,. if its citizens choose, serve as a
laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country." Mr.
'Justice Brandeis, dissenting in New State Ice Co. v.
Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262, 311.
As there is no violation of a federal statute alleged, the
challenge to thi judgment under the due priocess clause
must stand or fall On a showing that these defendants have
had a trial so unfair as to amount to a taking of their
liberty without due process of law. On this record, we
think that showing has not been made.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting.

The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits a state from convicting any person by use
of a jury which is not impartially drawn from a crosssection of the community. That means that juries must
87 See 8 Eucyclopedia of the Social Sciences 492.

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

•297

MURtPHY, J., dissenting.

be chosen without systematic and intentional exclusion of
any otherwise qualified group of individuals. Smith v.
Texas, 311 U. S. 128. Only in that way can the democratic traditions of the jury system be preserved. Thiel v.
Southern Pacific Co., 328 U. S. 217, 220; Glasserv. United
States, 315 U. S. 60, 85. It is because I believe that this
constitutional standard of jury selection has been ignored
in the creation of the so-called "blue ribbon" jury panel
in this case that I am forced to dissent.
Preliminarily, it should be noted that legislation by
Congress prohibiting the particular kind of inequality
here involved is unnecessary to enable us to strike it
down under the Constitution. 'While Congress has the
power to enforce by appropriate legislation the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, and has done so
relative to discrimination in jury selection on the basis
of race or color, its failure to legislate as to economic or
other discrimination in jury selection does not permit us
to stand idly by. We have consistently interfered with
state procedure and state legislation when -we felt that
they were inconsistent with the Fourteenth Amendment
or with the federal commerce power despite Congressional
silence on the matter involved. See, e. g., West Virginia
State Board of Education v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624;
Nippert v. Richmond, 327 U. S. 416; Morgan v. Virginia,
328 U. S. 373. And so in this case we are entitled to
judge the action of New York by constitutional standards
without regard to the absence of relevant federal
legislation.
The constitutional vice inherent in the type of "blue
ribbon" jury panel here involved is that it rests upon intentional and systematic exclusion of certain classes of
people who are admittedly qualified to serve on the general jury panel. Whatever may be the standards erected
by jury officials for distinguishing between those eligible

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

for such a "blue ribbon" panel and those who are not, the
distinction itself is an invalid one. It denies the defendant his constitutional right to be tried'by a jury fairly
drawn from a cross-section of the community. It forces
upon him a jury drawn from a panel chosen in a manner
which tends to obliterate the representative basis of the
jury.
The selection of the "blue ribbon" panel in this case
rests upon the "degree of intelligence as revealed by the
.questionnaire" sent to prospective jurors, augmented by
personal interviews. The questionnaire, however, does
not purport to be a test of native intelligence, nor does
it appear to offer any sound basis for distinguishing the
intelligence of one person from another. The undeniable
result has been to permit the jury officials to formulate
whatever standards they desire, whether in terms of "intelligence" or some other factor, to eliminate persons from
the "blue ribbon" panel, even though they admittedly are
qualified for general jury service. That fact is strikingly
borne out by the statistics compiled in this case as to the
personnel, of the "blue ribbon" panel. Certain classes
of individuals are totally unrepresented on the panel
despite their general qualifications and despite the fact
that high intelligence is to be found in such classes.
Percentage of
Percentage of
total experienced representation on

labor forces in
Manhattan.
Professional and semi-professional..
12.1
Proprietors, managers and officials..
9.3
Clerical, sales and kindred workers..
21.3
Craftsmen, foremen and kindred
workers ........................
7.7
Operatives and. kindred workers .... 17
Service workers ..................
27.6
Laborers .......................
4.9
Farmers ....... :............ .... 0.1

"blue ribbon"
panel.
18.-8
43
38
0.2
0
0
0
0

FAY v. NEW YORK.
261

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Such statistics can only mean that the jury officials have
evolved some standard other than that of "intelligence"
to exclude certain persons from the "blue ribbon" panel.
And that standard is apparently of an economic or social
nature, unjustified by 'the democratic principles of the
jury system.
The Court points out some of the difficulties involved
in comparing the personnel of the panel with 1940 census
figures. But we are dealing here with a very subtle and
sophisticated form of discrimination which does not lend
itself to easy or precise proof. The proof here is adequate
enough to demonstrate that this panel, like every discriminatorily selected "blue ribbon" panel, suffers from
a constitutional infirmity. That infirmity is the denial
of equal protection to those who are tried by a jury drawn
from a "blue ribbon" panel. Such a panel is narrower
and different from that used in forming juries to try the
vast majority of other accused persons. To the extent
of that difference, therefore, the persons tried by "blue
ribbon" juries receive unequal protection.
In addition, as illustrated in this case, the distinction
that is drawn in fact between "blue ribbon", jurors and
general jurors is often of such a character as to destroy the
representative nature of the "blue ribbon" panel. There
is no constitutional right to a jury drawn from a group
of uneducated and unintelligent persons. Nor is there
any right to a jury chosen solely from those at the lower
end of the economic and social scale. But there is a constitutional right to a jury drawn from a group which represents a cross-section of the community. And a crosssectiorn of the community includes persons with varying
degrees of training and intelligence and with varying
economic and social positions. Under our Constitution,
the jury is not to be made the representative of the most
intelligent, the most wealthy or the most successful, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

of the least intelligent, the least wealthy or the least successful. It is a democratic institution, representative of
all qualified classes of people. Smith v. Texas, supra.
To the extent that a "blue ribbon" panel fails to reflect
this democratic principle, it is constitutionally defective.
The Court demonstrates rather convincingly that it is
difficult to prove that the particular petitioners were
prejudiced by the discrimination practiced in this case.
Yet that should not excuse the failure to comply with
the constitutional standard of jury selection. We can
never measure accurately the prejudice that results from
the exclusion of certain types of qualified. people from
a jury panel. Such prejudice is so subtle, so intangible,
that it escapes the ordinary methods of proof. It may
be absent in one case and present in another; it may
gradually and silently erode the jury system before it
becomes evident. But it is no less -real or meaningful
for our purposes. If the constitutional right to a jury
impartially drawn from a cross-section of the community
has been violated, we should vindicate that right even
though the effect of the violation has not yet put in a
tangible appearance. Otherwise that right may be irretrievably lost in a welter of evidentiary rules.
Since this "blue ribbon" panel falls short of the constitutional standard of jury selection, the judgments
below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join in this dissent.

and MR.

