PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
495

507

Syllabus.

which in fact are devoted to highway maintenance. For
the state does not exceed its constitutional powers by imposing more than one form of tax. Interstate Busses
Corp. v. Blodgett, supra; Dixie Ohio Co. v. Comm'n,
supra. And, as we have said, the aggregate amount of
both taxes combined is-less than that of taxes heretofore
sustained. In view of these facts there is not even semblance of substance to appellant's contention that the
taxes are excessive.
Neither is there merit in its other arguments, which
we have considered, including those urging due process
and equal protection grounds for invalidating the levies.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana is
Affirmed.

PANHANDLE EASTERN PIPE LINE CO. v. PUBLIC

SERVICE COMMISSION OF INDIANA

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 69. Argued November 14, 17, 1947.-Decided December 15, 1947.
1. Sales of imported natural gas by an interstate pipeline carrier
direct to industrial consumers are sales in interstate commerce, even
though the gas leaves the main transmission line within the state
and is piped to the consumers through branch lines or laterals at
reduced pressure. Pp. 512-513.
2. In view of the position of the state commission as construed by
the state supreme court, the orders of the commission, directing
immediately only the filing of information, constituted an assertion
of power to regulate appellant's rates and service under the state's
comprehensive scheme of regulation; and appellant was not required to await a further -regulatory order before contesting the
commission's jurisdiction. P. 511.
3. In the light of the legislative history, provisions, and policy of
the Natural Gas Act, and of the judicial history leading to its
enactment, sales of natural gas by an interstate pipeline carrier
direct to industrial consumers, although in interstate commerce,
are subject to regulation by the states. Pp. 513-524.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

4. B' the Natural Gas Act, Congress did not occupy the entire field

open to federal regulation of the transportation and sale of natural
gas in interstate commerce, but extended federal regulation only
to that area which this Court previously had held the states could
not reach. Pp. 516-519.
5. It is unnecessary in this case to consider the effect of the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution independently of the
effect of the Natural Gas Act as here construed. P. 524.
224 Ind.662, 71 N. E. 2d 117, affirmed.

Orders of a state commission requiring a pipeline company to file 6ariffs, fegulations, reports, etc., were vacated
and enjoined by a state court. The Supreme Court of
the State reversed. 224 Ind. 662, 71 N. E. 2d 117. On
appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 524.
John S. L. Yost argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were Ira Lloyd Letts and Alan W.
Boyd.
Karl J. Stipher, Deputy Attorney General of Indiana,
argued the cause for the Public Service Commission of
Indiana, appellee. With him on the brief were Cleon H.
Foust,-Attorney General, Frank E. Coughlin, First Deputy Attorney General, and Urban C. Stover.
William P. Evans argued the cause for the Indiana Gas
& Water Co. et al., appellees. With him on the brief were
John C. Lawyer, R. Stanley Anderson, Wm.A. McClellan,
Robert R. Btrton, Carl E. Hartley and John E. Fell.
Frederick G. Hamley and John E. Benton filed a brief
for the National Association of Railroad and Utilities
Commissioners, as amicus curiae,in support of appellees.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Broadly the question is whether Indiana has power
to regulate sales of natural gas made by an interstate

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

509

Opinion of the Court.

pipe-line carrier direct to industrial consumers in Indiana. More narrowly we are asked to decide whether the
commerce clause, Const. Art. I, § 8, by its own force forbids the appellee, Public Service Commission, to require
appellant to file tariffs, rules and regulations, annual reports, etc., as steps in a.comprehensive plan of regulation
preliminary to possible exercise of jurisdiction over rates
and service in such sales.'
Panhandle Eastern transports natural gas from Texas
and Kansas fields into and across intervening states, including Indiana, to Ohio and Michigan. In Indiana it
furnishes gas to local public utility distributing companies
and municipalities. These in turn supply the needs of
over 112,000 iesi'dential, commercial and industrial consumers.
Since 1942 appellant also has sold gas in large amounts
direct to Anchor-Hocking Glass Corporation for industrial consumption.1 Shortly before beginning -this service
appellant had informed a number of its customers, local
distributing companies in Indiana, that it intended to
render service directly to large industrial consumers wherever possible.3 Pursuant to that policy, since these pro.,
The Commission is authorized to take these steps by Indiana
statutes creating the state's regulatory scheme for public utilities.
Burns Ind. Stat. Ann. §§ 54-101 et seq.
2
Appellant's sales to Anchor-Hocking are far larger than sales made
to several of the local distributing companies. Thus, in 1943 appellant sold 1,150,279 cubic feet to Anchor-Hocking and only 151,065
cubic feet to the local utility served from the same branch line. See
note 8 infra.
3 This was in 1941.
In 1943 the chairman of appellant's board
stated that "Panhandle was anxious to take over such business
because it was unregulated transaction both as to the Federal Power
Commission and the Public Savice Commission of Indiana and that
he intended to establish higherindustrial rates based on a competitive

fuel basis."

OCTOBER TERM, .1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

peedings began direct service has been extended to another
big industrial user.'
In 1944 the Commission initiated hearings relative to
direct service by Panhandle Eastern to Indiana consumers. It concluded that "the distribution in Indiana by
Panhandle of natural gas direct to consumers is subject
to regulation by this Commission under the laws of this
state," notwithstanding any alleged contrary effect of the
commerce clause upon appellant's direct sales to industrial
users. Accordingly it issued its order of November 21,
1945, for the filing of tariffs, etc., as has been stated.
EArly in 1946 Panhandle Eastern brought this suit in
a state court to set aside and enjoin enforcement of the
order. While the cause was pending the Commission
issued a supplemental order declining appellant's offer to
submit the specified tariffs, reports, etc., "as information
only," and reasserting its full regulatory power as conferred)by the Indiana statutes.' 63 P. U. R. (N. S.)
309.
The trial court vacated the orders and enjoined the
Commission from enforcing them. It accepted appellant's view of the effect of the commerce clause on its
'Prior to the hearings before the Commission appellant had entered into arrangements to provide direct industrial service to an
E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company plant near Fortville, Indiana.
That service was commenced subsequent to the hearings.
5 In the trial court'the Commission had urged, as it still does, that
its first order merely required the filing of information and that no
action would lie to contest its power to fix rates or otherwise regulate
the sales until that power was exercised. This resulted in bringing
forth appellant's tender of compliance as "information only," conditioned upon the Commission's acceptance of the filing as such and
without prejudice to appellant's right to contest the validity of any
subsequent order. The supplemental order expressly stated that the
filing, if any, would be deemed to be for the purpose of and available
for use by the Commission in carrying out its further duties under
the statute.

. PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

511

Opinion of the Court.

operations. The Supreme Court of Indiana reversed that
judgment and denied the relief appellant sought. 224
Ind. 662. It held first that the Commission's orders
amounted to an unequivocal assertion of power to regulate rates and service on appellant's direct industrial
sales and thus presented squarely the question of the
Commission's jurisdiction over such sales as affected by
the commerce clause. The court did not flatly hold
that the sales are in interstate rather than intrastate
commerce. But, taking them to be of the former kind,
it held them nevertheless subject to the state's power of
regulation under the doctrine of Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299. The court further held that appellant, in making these sales, is a public utility within the
meaning and application of the state's regulatory statutes,
Burns Ind. Stat. Ann. §§ 54-105 and Ind. Acts 1945, c.
53, p. 110. It is this decision we have to review pursuant
to § 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 344 (a).6
The effect of the state statutes, whether permitting the
filing of the tariffs, etc., as information unrelated to further regulation or requiring the filing as initial and integral steps in the regulatory scheme, and thus as presenting
at the threshold of the scheme's application the question
of the state's power to go further with it, is primarily
a question of construction for the state courts to determine. In view of the Commission's position, as construed
by the state supreme court, we cannot say that the only
thing presently involved is the state's power to require the
filing of information without reference to its further use
for controlling these sales. Cf. Arkansas Louisiana Gas
Co. v. Department of Public Utilities,304 U. S. 61. Here
6 Several of the local utility companies, which had been intervenors
in the proceedings before the Commission, were permitted to intervene
in the court test of the orders and are appellees here. The National
Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners has file a brief
amicus curiae in support of the Commission's position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

the orders constituted "an unequivocal assertion of
power" to regulate rates and service. Indeed they involve
something more than a mere threat to apply the regulatory plan in its later phases. They represent the actual
application of that plan in its initial stage. In such a
situation appellant was not required to await a further
regulatory order before contesting the Commission's jurisdiction. Cf. Public Utilities Comm'n v. Gas Co., 317
U. S. 456.
This does not mean that we now express opinion concerning the validity of any further order which the Commission may enter. No such order is before us. It does
mean that we are required to, decide whether the sales
in question lie within the scope of the state's power to
regulate rates and service, so that some further order
in those respects may or may not be entered.
Nor do we question that these sales are interstate transactions. The contrary suggestion left open in the state
supreme court's treatment rests upon the view that gas
transported interstate takes on the character of a commodity which has come to rest or broken bulk when it
leaves the main transmission line and, under reduced
pressure, enters branch lines or laterals irrevocably on its
way to final distribution or consumption. Those merely
mechanical considerations are no longer effective, if ever
they were exclusively, to determine for regulatory purposes the interstate or intrastate character of the continuous movement and resulting sales we have here.!
In Illinois Gas Co. v. Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 504,
the .Court referred to earlier decisions turned by "applying this
mechanical test for determining when interstate commerce ends and
ixrastate commerce begins," namely, "upon the introduction of the
,gas into the service pipes of the distributor," and then stated: "In
other cases, the Court, in determining the validity of state regulations,
has been'less concerned to find a point in time and space where the
interstate commerce in gas ends and intrastate commerce begins, and

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

513

Opinion of the Court.

Thus gas furnished to local utilities for resale is supplied
unquestionably, both as to transportation and as to sale,
in interstate commerce. Yet it is subjected to practically
identical changes in pressure with the gas sold by appellant directy for industrial use.' Neither practical common sense nor constitutional sense would tolerate holding
that reduction in pressure makes the industrial sales to
Anchor-Hocking wholly intrastate for purposes of local
regulation while deliveries at similar pressures to utility
companies remain exclusively interstate. Variations in
main pressure are not the criterion of the states' regulatory powers under the commerce clause. Cf. Interstate
Gas Co. v.Power Comm'n, 331 U. S.682, 689. The sales
here were clearly in interstate commerce.
The controlling issues therefore are two: (1) Has Congress, by enacting the Natural Gas Act, 52 Stat. 821,
15 U. S. C. § 717, in effect forbidden the states to regulate
such sales as those appellant makes directly to industrial
has looked to the nature of the state regulation involved, the objective of the state, and the effect of the regulation upon the national
interest in the commerce. Cf. South Carolina Highway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 185, 187, et seq.; Califrnia v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113, 114; Duckworth v. Arkansas [314 U..S.],
p. 390." 314 U. S. at 505.
8 Appellant's gas enters Indiana in a 22-inch main at a pressure of
250 pounds or more per square inch. In the state the gas enters a
16-inch branch line at a pressure of 200 pounds per square inch, and
then a 6-inch lateral line at a pressure of 100 pounds per square inch.
In the lateral line the gas is transported to two adjacent meter houses.
From one house gas is delivered to Anchor-Hocking at pressures as
low as 10 pounds per squhre inch, while from the other deliveries are
made to a local distributing company at pressures ranging from 9
to 25 pounds per square inch.
Similarly, gas from other laterals stemming from appellant's main
line is reduced to a pressure of 16 pounds per square inch before
being furnished to the DuPont plant and to pressures of approximately 20 pounds per square inch for two utility .companies served
from the same lateral as the DuPont plant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

consumers; (2) if not, are those sales of such a nature, as
related to the Cooley formula, that the commerce clause
of its own force forbids the states to act.

We think there can be no doubt of the answer to be
given to each of these questions, namely, that the states
are competent to regulate the sales. The two questions
may best be ccnsidered in the background of the legislative history of the Natural Gas Act and of the judicial
history leading to its enactment in 1938.
Prior to that time this Court in a series of decisions
had dealt with various situations arising from state efforts
to regulate the sale of imported natural gas. The story
has been adequately told' and we do not stop to review

it again or attempt reconciliation of all the decisions or
their groundings. Suffice it to say that by 1938 the Court
had delineated broadly between the area of permissible
state control and that in which the states could not intrude. The former included interstate direct sales to
local consumers, as exemplified in Pennsylvania Gas Co.
v. Publi4 Service Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23; the latter, service
interstate to local distributing companies for resale, as
held in Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, reinforced by Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Co., 273
U. S. 83.
Shortly then, as the decisions stood in 1938, the states
could regulate sales direct to consumers, even though
made by an interstate pipe-line carrier. This was true
of sales not only for domestic and commercial uses but
also for industrial consumption, at any rate whenever the
interstate carrier engaged in. distribution for all of these
9 For a summary of the leading decisions concerning the sale and
transportation of gas prior to the passage of the Natural Gas Act,
sep Illinois Gas Co. v. Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 504-505:
See also Powell, Note, Physics and Law-Commerce in Gas and Electricity, 58 Harv. L. Rev. 1072; Howard Gas anl Electricity in Interstate Commerce, 18 Minn. L. Rev. 611.

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

515

Opinion of -the Court.

uses. '0 On the other hand, sales for resale, usually to local/
distributing companies, were beyond the reach of state
power, regardless- of the character of ultimate use. This
fact not only prevented the states from regulating those
sales but also seriously handicapped them in making effective regulation of sales within their authority."
10 Appellant

contends that "wholesale," i. e., large quantity, service

direct to industrial consumers, as exemplified by its sales to AnchorHocking, is to be distinguished from the sales in Pennsylvania Gas
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23, which were made in a
manner commonly associated with a local distribution system supplying gas to consumers in a city. Nothing in the decision, however, requires it to be so limited. On the contrary, emphasis may rather be
placed on the fact that both situations involve sales to ultimate consumers, Anchor-Hocking being just as clearly in that category as the
"factories and residences" served by the company in the Pennsylvania
Gas Co. case. See Illinois Gas Co. v. Public Service Co., 314 U. S.
498, 505, where Chief Justice Stone, in summarizing the Pennsylvania
Gas Co. case, stated that it involved gas "sold directly to ultimate
local consumers"; Jersey Central Co. v. Power Comm'n, 319 U. S.
61, 78, 80 (dissenting opinion); Powell, Note, 58 Harv. L. Rev. 1072,
1082, quoted infra note 12.
1 The Attleboro decision, 273 U. S.83, had been made in the face
of the Rhode Island Commission's finding that the Narragansett company in selling electric current interstate to the Attleboro company
was suffering an.operating loss while the rates to its other customers
yielded a faIr return; .and. over the Commission's contentions
groynded on that finding that it could not effectively regulate rates of
the Narragansett company to its-local consumers without also regulating its rates to the Attleboro company.
Compare-the memorandum submitted on behalf of the National
Association pf Railroad and-Utilities Commissionerq by its general
solicitor, Mr. John E. Benton, Hearing before Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce bn H. R. 4008, 75th Cong.,. 1st Sss.
141, 143: "Sales for industrial use ought not to be exbrmpt from all
regulation, for the result may very well be that unjustifiable discrimination will resuli, and there Will be no commission to which complaint
may be made. Sales for industrial uses plainly ought to be subject
to regulation by the same Commission which, regulates sales to other
classes of consumers, so that just and reasonable rates, for the sevetAl
classes of service, properly related to each other, may be established."

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

This impotence of the states to act in relation to sales
for resale by interstate carriers brought about the demand
for federal regulation and Congress' response in the Natural Gas Act. To reach those sales and prevent the hiatus
in regulation their immunity caused, the Act declared
in § 1(b):
"The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce,
to the sale in interstate commerce of natural gas for
resale for ultimate public consumption for domestic,
commercial, industrial, or any other use, and to natural-gas companies engaged in such transportation
or sale, but shall not apply to any other transportation or sale of natural gas or to the local distribution
of natural gas or to the facilities used for such distribution or to the production or gathering of natural
gas.))
This section determines the Act's coverage and does
so in the light of the situation existing at the time. Three
things and three only Congress drew within its own regulatory power, delegated by the Act to its agent, the
Federal Power Commission. These were: (1) the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce; (2) its
sale in interstate commerce for resale; and (3) natural
gas companies engaged in such transportation or sale.
The omission of any reference to other sales, that is, to
direct sales for consumptive use, in the affirmative declaration of coverage was not inadvertent. It was deliberate. For Congress made sure its intent could not be
mistaken by adding the explicit prohibition that the
Act "shall not apply to iany other . . sale . .. .
(Emphasis added.) Those words plainly mean that the
Act shall not apply to any saes other than sales "for
resale for ultimate public consumption for domestic, com-

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

517

Opinion of the Court.

mercial, industrial, or any other use." Direct sales for
consumptive use of whatever sort were excluded.
The line of the statute was thus clear and complete.
It cut sharply and cleanly between sales for resale and
direct sales for consumptive uses. No exceptions were
made in either category for particular uses, quantities or
otherwise. And the line drawn was that one at which the
decisions had arrived in distributing regulatory power
before the Act was passed. 2
Moreover, this unusual legislative precision was not
employed with any view to relieving or exempting any

segment of the industry from regulation. The Act,
though extending federal regulation, had no purpose or
effect to cut down state power. On the cortrary, perhaps its primary purpose was to aid in making state Yegulation effective, by adding the weight of federal regulation
to supplement and reinforce it in the gap created by the
prior decisions."3

The Act was drawn with meticulous re-

[T]he Supreme Court has from the beginning allowed the
state both to tax and to fix the price on the first sale or delivery of gas
or electricity brought in from a sister Ptate when and if this ' rst sale
is also necessarily the last sale because consummated by consumption." Powell, Note, 58 Harv. L. Rev. 1072, 1082.
13In H. R. Rep. No. 709, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., the Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce said of the proposed bill which
became the Natural Gas Act: "It confers jurisdiction upon the Federal Power Commission over the transportation of natural gas in
interstate commerce, and the sale in interstate commerce of natural
gas for resale for ultimAte public consumption for domestic, commercial, industrial, or any other use. The States have, of course, for
many years regulated sales of natural gas to consumers in intrastate
transactions. The States have also been able to regulate sales to
consumers even though such sales are in interstate commerce, such
sales being considered local in character and in the absence of congressional prohibition subject to State regulation. (See Pennsylvania
Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission (1920), 252 U. S. 23.) There
is no intention in enacting the present legislation to disturb the
12,,...

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

gard for the continued exercise of state power, not to
handicap or dilute it in any way. This appears not
merely from the situation which led to its adoption and
the legislative history, including the committee reports in
Congress cited above, but most plainly from the history
of § 1 (b) in respect to the changes which took place in
reaching its final form.'
States in their exercise of such jurisdiction. However, in the case
,f sales for resale, or so-called wholesale sales, in interstate commerce
(for example, sales by producing companies to distributing companies) the legal situation is different. Such transactions have been
considered to be not local in character and, even in the absence of
Congressional action, not subject to State regulation. (See Missouri
v. Kansas Gas Co. (1924), 265 U. S.298, and Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co. (1927) 273, U. S.83.)
The basic purpose of the present legislation is to occupy this field
in which the Supreme Court has held that the States may not act."
See also H. R. Rep. No. 2651, 74th Cong., 2d Sess. 1-3; Sen. Rep.
No. 1162, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
14 In the hearings on H. R. 4008, the bill in the 75th Congress, the
representative of several large pipe-line companies construed § 1 (b)
as it then stood to exempt sales to industrial consumers from all regulation, state as well as federal, and proposed an amendment exempting
sales for resale, when for industrial use only, from regulation under
the proposed legislation. Hearing before Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce on H. R. 4008, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 124.
In an answering memorandum, Mr. Benton pointed out the pipeline representative's misunderstanding of the purposes of § 1 (b),
stating that "Service to an industrial user is just as much a local
service . . .as is a sale to a householder for domestic use" and until

"Congress occupies the field, a sale for industrial use is accordingly subject to State regulation .

. . ."

Id. at 143.

He proposed

an alternative amendment to render it clear beyond doubt that federal
regulation of sales. for resale extended to transactions.where the gas
was to be used for industrial purposes only. Id. at 142. Mr. Benton's amendment was adopted by the House committee and appears
form in § 1 (b) of the Natural Gas Act as
in substantially unaltered
finally enacted. In H. R. Rep. No. 709, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., the

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

519

Opinion of the Court.

It would be an exceedingly incongruous result if a statute so motivated, designed and shaped io bring about
more effective regulation, and particularly more effective
state regulation, were construed in the teeth of those
objects, and the import of its wording as well, to cut down
regulatory power and to do so in a manner making the
states less capable of regulation than before the statute's adoption. Yet this, in effect, is what appellant asks
us to do. For the essence of its position, apart from
standing directly on the commerce clause, is that Congress by enacting the Natural Gas Act has "occupied the
field," i. e., the entire field open to federal regulation, and
thus has relieved its direct industrial sales of any subordination to state control.
The exact opposite is the fact. Congress, it is true,
occupied a field. But it was meticulous to take in only
territory which this Court had held the states could not
reach."5 That area did not include direct consumer sales,
whether for industrial or other uses. Those sales had
been regulated by the states and the regulation had been
repeatedly sustained. In no instance reaching this Court
had it been stricken down."8
It is true that no case came here involving state regulation of direct industrial sales wholly apart from sales
for other uses. In the cases sustaining state power,
committee emphasized that Mr. Benton and other representatives of
state -commissions and municipalities appeared in support of the bill.
In support of its position appellant relies in part on H. R. Rep. No.
800, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., favorably reporting H. R. 4051 amending
the Natural Gas Act. This bill did not become law. The views expressed in the committee report made in 1947, some nine years after
the Natural Gas Act's passage, are hardly determinative or, in juxtaposition with the contemporaneous history, persuasive of the congressional intent in passing that Act.
15 See notes 12 and 13 supra.
1 Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

whether to regulate or to tax, the company making the
industrial sales was selling also to domestic and commercial users." But there was no suggestion, certainly
no decision, that a different result would follow if only
direct industrial sales were being made. Neither the
prior judicial line nor the statutory line was drawn between kinds of use or on the relation between sales for
different uses. Both lines were drawn between sales for
use, of whatever kind, and sales for resale. Cf. Colorado
Interstate Co. v. Comm'n, 324 U. S. 581, 595-596.
The Natural Gas Act created an articulate legislative
program based on a clear recognition of the respective
responsi:Lities of the federal and state regulatory agencies It does not contemplate ineffective regulation at
either level. We have emphasized repeatedly that Congress meant to create a comprehensive.and effective regulatory scheme, complementary in its operation to those
of the states and in no manner usurping their authority.
Public Utilities Coftm'n v. Gas Co., 317 U. S. 456, 467;
Power Comm'n v. Hope Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 609-610;
Interstate Gas Co. v. Power Comm'n, 331 U. S. 682, 690.
And, as was pointed out in Power Comm'n v. Hope Gas
Co., supra at 610, "the primary aim of this legislation
was to protect consumers against exploitation at the hands
of natural gas companies." The scheme was one of cooperative action 18 between federal and state agencies.
7Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23,
appears to be the only case flatly ruling the point for regulatory pur.poses. But its authority was clearly recognized in Illinois Gas Co. v.
Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 505, cf. note 10 supra; Misso4,ri v.
Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, 308; Public ]tilities Comm'n" v.
Attleboro Co., 273 U. S. 83, 87, and other cases, as well as in the
congressional -eport quoted in note 13.
18The jurisdiction granted the Federal Power Commission by the
Natural Gas Act necessitates close correlation with state regulatory
bodies. Section 17 of the .Act provides for cooperation between the
federal and state agencies. See note 23 and text.

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

521

Opinion of the Court.

It could accomplish neither tfhat protective aim nor tne
comprehensive and effective dual regulation Congress had
in mind, if those companies could divert at Will all or the
cream of their business to unregulated industrial uses."5
The Natural Gas Act therefore was-not merely ineffective to exclude the sales now in question from state
control. Rather both its policy and its terms confirm that
control. More than "silence" of Congress is involved.
The declaration, though not identical in terms with the
one made by the McCarran Act, 59 Stat. 33, 15 U. S. C.
§ 1011, concerning continued state reguiation of the insurance business, is in effect equally clear, in view of
the Act's historical setting, legislative history and objects, to show intention for the states to continue with
regulation where Congress' has not expressly taken
over. Cf. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Benjamin, 328 U. S.
408. Congress has undoubted power to define the distribution of power over interstate commerce. Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S.761, 769, and authorities cited; cf. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Benjamin, supra.
Here the power has been exercised in a manner wholly
inconsistent with exclusion of state authority over the
sales in question.
Congress' action moreover was an unequivocal recognition of the vital interests of the states and their people,
consumers and industry alike, in the regulation of rates
and service. Indiana's interest in appellant's'direct sales
is obvious. That interest is certainly not less than the
" Over 38 per cent of the gross revenues of the local Indiana utilities from the sale of gas is derived from service to the approximately
250 industrial consumers served by them. If service to any substantial number of the industrial users were to be taken over by
appellant, the local utilities not only would suffer great losses in revenue, but would be unable to dispense with more than a trivial percentage of their plant properties. the resultant increase in unit cost
of gas would lead necessarily to' increased rates for the consumers
derved by the local companies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

interest of California and her people in their protection
against the evil effects of wholly unregulated sale of insurance interstate. Robertson v. California, 328 U. S.
440. Not only would industrial consumers in most instances go without protection as to rates and service other
than that supplied by competition from other fuels,"° but
the state's regulatory system would be crippled and the
efforts of the Indiana Commission seriously hampered in
protecting the interests of other classes of users equally
1
if not more important."
As against these vital local interests, becoming more
important with every passing year in the steady transition from use of more primitive fuels to natural gas
and fuel oils, appellant seeks to set up its own interest
in complete freedom from regulation and, if any is to be
imposed, a supposed national interest in uniform regulation. The national interest, considered apart from its
own, is largely illusory on this record. For itself, the
company asserts that state regulation of prices and service
will amount to a power of blocking the commerce or
impeding its free flow.
There are two answers. One is experience. Insofar'
as this phase of the natural gas industry has been subjected to state regulation to date, those effects have not
been shown to occur. The other answer, in case that
experience should vary, is the power of Congress to correct abuses in regulation if and when they appear. State
20

Pipe-line. service, by the very physical conditions characterizing

the industry and magnitude of investment required, acquires large
monopolistic effects, more particularly in marketing areas distant
from producing ones. Cf. Power Comm'n v. Hope Gas Co., 320 U. S.
591, 610, n. 17 and text. Most often its competition is with other
fuels rather than competing pipe lines.
21 See note 19.
Cf. Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, 306 U. S. 346; Robertson v. California, 328 U. S. 440, 448;
Industrial Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of,Ohio, 135 Ohio
St. 408, 412; Re Service Gas Co., 15 P. U. R. (N. S.) 202.

PANHANDLE PIPE LINE CO. v. COMM'N.
507

523

Opinion of the Court.

power to regulate interstate commerce, wherever it exists,
is not the power to destroy it, unless Congress has expressly so provided.'
It is the power to require that it
be done on terms reasonably related to the necessity for
protecting the local interests on which the power rests.
Appellant also envisages conflicting regulations by the
commissions of the various states its main pipe line serves,
particularly in relation to curtailment of service when
weather conditions or others require it, and fears conflict
also between the state commissions and the FederalPower
Commission. It assigns these possibilities in support of
its view that national uniform regulation alone'is appropriate to its operations. There is no evidence thus far
of substantial conflict in either respect 23 and we do not
see that the probability of serious .conflict is so strong as
to outweigh the vital local interests to which we have
referred requiring regulation by the states. Moreover,
if such conflict should develop, the matter of interrupting
service is one largely related, as appellees say, to transportation and thus within the jurisdiction Of the Federal
Power Commission to control, in accommodation of any
conflicting interests among various states. 2'
These considerations all would lead to the conclusion
that the states are not made powerless to regulate the
sales in question by any supposed necessity for uniform
22

Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 299 U. S.
334; Clarkh Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland R. Co., 242 U. S.
311 United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100.
23 There is no evidence of any conflict in the asserted exercise of
jurisdiction by the appellee Commission with any functions of the
Federal Power Commission. In granting appellant permission under
§ 7 (c) of the Natural Gas Act to extend its facilities to serve the
DuPont plant, see note 4 supra,' the Federal- Power Coftnission
specifically provided that the order was "without prejudice to the
authority of the Indiana Commission in the exercise of any jurisdic:
tion which it may have over the sale or service proposed to be
rendered by Panhandle Eastern to du Pont." Cf. note 18.
24

See note 23.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

national regulation but that on'the contrary the matter
is of such high local import as to justify their control,
even if Congress had remained wholly silent and given
no indication of its intent that state regulation should
be effective. But in this case, in addition to those considerations taken independently, the policy which we
think Congress has clearly delineated for permitting and
Supporting state regulation removes any necessity for determining the effect of the commerce clause independently
of action by -Congress and taken as operative in its
silence.
The attractive gap which appellant has envisioned in
the coordinate schemes of regulation is a mirage. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.

MR. Jus'FrcE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

JONES, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. LIBERTY GLASS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued November 17-18, 1947.-Decided December 22,
1947.

1. Under § 322 (b) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, a claim for
refund of federal income tax, whether arising out of an income tax
"erroneously or illegally assessed or collected" or not, must be.
filed within three years from the time the return was filed or within
two years from the time the tax was paid. The four-year period
prescribed by § 3313 is inapplicable to such a claim. Pp. 525-526,

534-535.
2. The word "overpayment" in § 322 of the Internal Revenue Code
is to be read in its usual sense, as meaning any payment in excess.
of that which is properly due, whether traceable to .an error in

