OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

tion for the requisitioning of their property by the United
States. Russian Fleet v. United States, supra. We must
assume that the United States will meet its obligations
under the Constitution. Consequently, friendly aliens
will be compensated for any property taken and Silesian
is protected by the exculpatory clauses of the Act from
any claim from its alien stockholders.
Judgment affirmed.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

CLARK, ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS SUCCESSOR
-TO THE ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.
UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORPORATION, A. G.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 35.

Argued May 1, 1947.-Reargued November 12, 1947.Decided December 8, 1947.

1. Respondent, a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland and having its principal place of business in that country, sued
under § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act to reclaim property which the Alien Property Custodian had vested in himself
under § 5 (b), as amended by the First War Powers Act of 1941.
The property seized consisted of shares of stock in.corporations
-organized under the laws of various States of this Nation and of an.
interest in a contract between two such corporations and, according
to the allegations of the complaint which are assumed to be true, was
free of all enemy taint-i. e., the corporations whose shares had been
seized, the corporations which had a contract in which respondent
had an interest, and respondent itself, were corporations in which
n6 .enemy, ally of an enemy, or any national of either, had any
interest of any kind whatsoever, and respondent had not done
business in the territory of the enemy or any ally of an enemy.
Held: Respondent is entitled to maintain the suit. Pp. 482-490.

SILESIAN-AMERICAN CORP. v. CLARIT
469

-477

Opinion bf the Court.

Garvan, 254 U. S. 554, 567-68. War brooks no ddlay.
The Constitution imposes none.
The section, 5 (b) (1), and Executive Order under
which the Custodian acted authorized the vesting in him
by his order of the property of a foreign national. This
description covered stock ownership of a foreign national
in Silesian.. The fact that the certificates did not come
into the hands of the Custodian is immaterial. They are
evidences of the property right of the foreign national in
Silesian that is subject to be vested in the Custodian by
the Act. See Great Northern R. Co. v. Sutherland, 273
U. S. 182. Section 5 (b) (1) specifically states, "and
such designated agency or person may perform any and
all acts incident to the accomplishment or furtherance of
these purposes." See note 2 above. Since the Custodian was authorized to vest and to sell the property by
§ 5, we think that the power to require the issue of new
certificates was incidental to that authority. As one purpose of § 5 (b) (1) was to authorize the seizure of the
interests of foreign nationals in domestic corporations so
that such interest could be used or sold, such authority to
participate in management or to transfer the stock interests would be frustrated if customary evidences of the
ownership could not be required from the corporation.
The power of the Custodian to demand the certificates is
plain. The correlative duty to obey the order equally so,
if the effect of obedience does not do violence to other
valid requirements of the statute or makeSilesian liable
to bona fide holders of the old stock.
Silesian in specific terms is protected from any liability
to bona fide holders such as Non F~rrum or the Swiss
.Banks by reason of any infirmity in the Custodian's vesting order or his direction to Silesian to issue new certificates for the Non Ferrum stock. The applicable language of § 7 (e) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, 40

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Stat. 418, and § 5 (b) (2), as amended, 55 Stat. 839-40,
are set out in the margin.5 But Silesian argues that protection cannot follow from an order contrary to the Trading with the Enemy Act. The order to issue the new
certificates is said to be unauthorized because it allows the
property of friendly alien pledgees, the Swiss Banks, to be
taken contrary to § 8 (a).' Section 8 (a) is said to be a
limitation on the Custodian's power to seize property
pledged to "any person not an enemy or ally of enemy."
It is suggested that if § 7 (e) or § 5 (b) (2) is interpreted to require Silesian to carry out the Custodian's

640 Stat. 418, § 7 (e):
"No person shall be held liable in any court for or in respect to
anything done Dr omitted in pursuance of any order, rule, or regulation made by the President under the authority of this Act."
55 Stat. 840, § 5 (b) (2):
"Any payment, conveyance, transfer, assigment, or delivery of
property or interest therein, made to or for the account of the United
States, or as otherwise directed, pursuant to this subdivision or any
rule, regulation, instruction, or direction issued hereunder shall to the
extent thereof be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes
of, the obligation of the person making the same; and no person
shall be held liable in any court for or in respect to anything done
•or 'omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of,
or in pursuance of and in reliance on, this subdivision, or any rule,
regulation, instruction, or direction issued hereunder."
640 Stat. 418-19, § 8 (a):
"That any person not an enemy or ally of enemy holding a lawful'
mortgage, pledge, or lien, or other right in the nature of security in
property of an enemy or ally of enemy which, by law or by the terms
of the instrument creating such mortgage, pledge, or lien, or right,
*may be disposed of on'notice or presentation or demand . . . may
continue to hold said property, and, after default, may dispose of the
property . . . . Provided further, That if, on any such disposition of
property, a surplus shall remain after the patisfaction of the mortgage,
pledge, lien, or other right in the nature of security, notice of that,
fact shall be given to the President pursuant to such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, and such surplus shall be held subject
to his further order."

CLARK v. UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORP.

481

Counsel for Parties.

480

2. By the amendment to § 5 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act
contained in the First War Powers Act of.1941,.the property of all
foreign interests was placed within reach of the vesting power, not
to appropriate friendly or neutral assets but to reach r'nemy interests which masquerade under those innocent fronts, P ,.484-486.
3. Although §§ 2 and 9 (a) were not amended in 194i, they must
be read harmoniously with. § 5 (b) as amended in 1941, so. as not
to defeat the purpose of the 1941 amendment. Pp. 486-489.
4. Section 2, defining the terms "enemy" and "ally of enemy," must
be read differently than it was previously, so as to give the concept
of enemy or ally of enemy a scope which helps the 1941 amendment fulfill its mission without nullifying § 9 (a). P. 489.
5. When §§ 2, 5 (b) and 9 (a) are thus read together harmoniously,
§ 9 (a) cannot be construed as affording no remedy for the recovery
of property by foreign interests which have no possible connection
with the enemy, merely because such property was made subject
to seizure under § 5 (a), as amended. Pp. 486-489.
81 U. S. App. D. C. 284, 158 F. 2d 313, affirmed.

The District Court dismissed a suit brought by responident under § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act to
recover property vested by the Alien Property Custodian
in himself under § 5 (b), as amended by .the First War
Powers Act of 1941. The United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia reversed. 81 U. S. App.
D. C. 284, 158 F. 2d 313. This Court granted certiorari.
330 U. S. 813. Affirmed, p. 490.
M. S. Isenbergh argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Stanley M. Silverberg, Hry

LeRoy Jones, James L. Morrisson and

John Ward Cutler.

Richard-J, Connor argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Bart W. Butler.
Wm.Harvey Reeves filed a brief for the National

Foreign Trade Council, Inc., as amicus curiae, urging
affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent brought this suit to reclaim property which
the Alien Property Custodian,' acting under § 5 (b) of
the Trading With the Enemy Act, 40 Stat. 411, 50 U. S. C.
App. § 1- as amended by the First War Powers Act of 1941,
55 Stat. 839, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946), § 5 (b), had
vested in himself. Respondent is a corporation organized
under the laws of Switzerland and having its principal
place of business in that country. The property seized
consisted of shares of stock in corporations organized
under the laws of various States of this nation and of an
interest in a contract between two such corations.
The complaint alleges that respondent is not an enemy
or ally of an enemy and that at no time at or since the vesting has the property in question been owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, in whold or in part, by an
enemy, ally of an enemy, or a national of a designated
enemy country. It also alleges that none of the property
has been owing or belonging to or held on account of, or
for the benefit of any such person or interest. We construe these allegations to mean that the property is free
of all enemy taint and particularly that the corporations
whose shares have been seized, the corporations which
have a contract in which respondent has an interest, and
respondent itself, are companies in which no enemy, ally
of an 'enemy, nor any national of either has any interest
•bf any kind whatsoever, and that respondent has not done
business in the territory of the enemy or any ally of an
enemy. Those allegations, as so construed, are indeed
taken as true forthe purposes of the present ruling,, since
petitioner's motion to dismiss is based solely on the fact
that respondent is a national of a foreign country.
'The powers and functions of the Custodian were subsequently
transferred to the Attorney General. Executive Order No. 0788,
11 Fed. Reg. 11981 (Oct. 14, 1946).

CLARK v. UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORP.
480

483

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court granted petitioner's motion to dismiss. The Court of Appeals reversed, one justice dissenting. 81 U. S. App. D. C. 284, 158 F. 2d 313. The case
.is here on petition for a writ of certiorari
which we granted
because of the importance of the question in the administration of the Act. 330 U. S. 813.
Under the Act as it read prior to the 1941 amendment
respondent would have been able to maintain this suit on
a showing, without more, that it was a corporation organized under the laws of a friendly nation and not doing
business in the territory of an enemy nation or any of
its allies. That result would be reached as follows: Sec.
7 (c) permitted seizure by the Custodian only of property
in which an enemy or ally of an enemy had an interest.
Sec. 9 (a) permitted -"any person not -an enemy or ally
of enemy" claiming an interest in any seized property to
sue to reclaim it. And the Court held in Behn, Meyer &
Co. v. Miller, 266 U, S. 457, that a corporation organized
under the laws of a frien'dly nation and not doing business
in the territory of an enemy nation or any of its allies 2
See. 2 provides:
"That the word 'enemy,' as used herein, shall be deemed to mean,
for the purposes of such trading and of this Act-"(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of individuals,
of any nationality, resident within the territory '(including that
occupied by the military and naval forces) -of any nation with which
the United States is' at war, or.resident outside the United States
and doing business within such territory, and any corporation incorporated within such territory of any nation with which the United
States is at war or incorporated within any* country other than the
2

Unitei States and doing business within such territory.
"(b) The government of any nation with which the United States
is at war, or any political or municipal subdivision thereof, or any
officer, official, agent, or agency thereof.
"(c) Such other individuals, or body or class of individuals, as
may be natives, citizens, or subjects of any* nation with which the
United States is at war, other than citizens of. the United States,
wherever r~sident or wherever doing business, as the President, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

could maintain such a suit even though the corporation
was enemy owned or controlled. The scheme of the Act
as it was then drawn was "to seize the shares of stock
when enemy owned rather than to take over the corporate property." Hamburg-American Co. v. United
States, 2770U. S. 138,140.
That was at least one respect in which the Act had a
"rigidity and inflexibility" that was sought to be cured
by the amendment to § 5 (b) in 1941. See H. R. Rep.
No. 1507, 77th Coig., 1st Sess., p. 3. It was notorious
that Germany and her allies had developed numerous
techniques for concealing enemy ownership or control
,of property which was ostensibly friendly or neutral.
They iad through numerous devices, including the -corhe shall find the safety of the United States or the succestful prosecution of the war shall so require, may, by proclamation, include
within the term 'enemy.'
"The .words' 'ally of enemy,' as used herein, shall be deemed to
mean"(a) Any individual, partnership,. or other body of individuals,
of a, nationality, resident within the territory (including that occupied by the military and naval forces) of any nation which is an
ally of a nation with which the United States is at war, or resident
outside the United States and doing business within such territory,

and any corporation incorporated within such territory of such ally
nation, or incorporated within any country other than the United
States and doing business within such territory.
"(b) The government of any nation which is an ally of a nation
with which the Uiited States is at war, or any political or municipal
subdivision of such ally nation, or any officer, official, agent, or agency
thereof.
"(c) Such other individuals, or body or class of individuals, as
may be natives, citizens, or subjects of any nation which is an ally
of a nation with which the United States is at war, other than citizens
of the United States, wherever resident or wherever doing business,
as the President, if he shall find the safety. of the United States or
the successful prosecution. of the war shall so require, may, by proclamation, include within the term 'ally of enemy.'"

CLARK v. UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORP.
480

485

Opinion of the Court.

poration, acquired indirect control or ownership in industries in this country forthe purposes of economic
warfare.3 Sec. 5 (b) was amended on the heels of the declaration of war to cope with that problem. Congress by
that amendment granted the President the power to vest
in an agency designated by him "any property or interest
of any foreign country or national thereof."'. The property of all foreign interests was placed within reach of the
vesting power, not to appropriate friendly or neutral
assets but to reach enemy interests which masqueraded
under those innocent fronts.
Thus the President acquired new "flexible powers"
(H. R. Rep. No.- 1507, supra, p. 3) to deal effectively
38ome of the uses of the corporation in promotion of these subversive projects are summarized in Administration of the Wartime
Finaicial. and Property Controls of the United States Government,
Treasury Dept. (1942), pp. 29-30. It is pointed out that technical
legal title "to some of the most dangerous of the Axis-influenced
enterprises may be Swiss, Dutch, Swedish or American." It is also
said that "Actual ownership of business enterprises frequently runs
through tangled mazes of holding companies. These holding companies were normally incorporated in neutral countries and the
ownership of the holding companies themselves was normally represented by bearer shares, making it extremely difficult to negate a
claim that the ownership of the corporation was coincident with the
state of incorporation."
'I Sec. 5 (b) (1), as amended, also granted the President the power
to "investigate, regulate, direct and compel, nullify, void, prevent

or prohibit, any acquisition holding, withholding, use, transfer, withdrawal, transportation, importation or exportation of, or dealing
in, or exercising any right, power, or privilege with respect to, or
transactions involving, any property in which any foreign country or
a national thereof has any interest, by any person, or with respect to
any property, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States ....

Sec. 5 (b) (1), as atnended, further provided as respects property
which had been vested that "upon such terms and conditions as
the President may prescribe such interest or property shall be held,
used, administered, liquidated, sold, or otherwise dealt with in the
interest of and for the benefit of the United States ..

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

with property interests which had either an open or
concealed enemy taint.
While the scope of the President's power was broadened, there was no amendment restricting the scope of
§ 9 (a). As we have noted, § 9 (a) granted "any person
not an enemy or ally of enemy," claiming an interest in
property seized, the right to reclaim it. So the provision
reads today. Yet, as petitioner suggests, if Behn, Meyer
& Co. v. Miller, supra, is applied despite the 1941 amendment, § 9 (a) will undo much of the good which the 1941
amendment to § 5 (b) was designed to accomplish. All a
corporate claimant would need do to recover the property
seized would be to show that it was organized in this country or in some friendly or neutral Country and was not
doing business within the territory of an enemy or any of
its allies.' The fact that it was owned or controlled by
enemy interests and might sap the strength of this nation
through economic warfare would be immaterial. We
agree that a construction so destructive of the objectives
of the 1941 amendment to § 5 (b) must be rejected.
Petitioner therefore suggests that once the seizure is
shown to be permissible under § 5 (b), there is no remedy
for the return of the property under § 9 (a). It is said
that § 9 (a) was designed to provide an ultimate judicial
determination of the question whether the property seized
was within the vesting power defined in § 5 (b). Central
Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554, 567-568. The argument accordingly is that since § 5 (b) allows seizure and
vesting of "any property or interest of any foreign country
or national thereof," a suit to reclaim it is defeated by a
mere showing that the claimant is a corporation organized under the laws of another nation.
That is to make the right to sue run not to "any person
not an enemy or ally of enemy" as § 9 (a) in terms pro5

See note 2, supra.

CLARK v. UEBERSEE FINANZ-KORP.
480

487

Opinion of the Court.

vides but to "any person not an enemy or ally of enemy
or national of any foreign country." That would wipe
out all suits to reclaim property brought by any foreign
interest, no matter how friendly. We stated in Markham v. Cabell, 326 U. S. 404, 410-411, "The right to
sue, explicitly granted by § 9 (a), should not be read out
of the law unless it is clear that Congress by what it later
did withdrew its earlier permission." Such a drastic contraction, if not complete sterilization, of § 9 (a) as petitioner suggests should therefore be made only if no other
alternative is open.
There are several reasons which make us hesitate to
take that course. In the firsitplace, as we have suggested,
the phase of the problem with which we are presently
concerned and with which Congress was wrestling when
it amended the Act in 1941 started and ended "with
property having'an !nemy taint. We find not the slightest suggestion that Congress was concerned under this Act
with property owned or controlled by friendly or neutral
powers and in no way utilized by the Axis. Those interests were not waging economic warfare against us. Secondly, we are dealing here with the power "to affirma-.
tively compel the use and application of foreign property
in a manner consistent with the interests of the United
States."
Sen. Rep. No. 911, 77th Cong., lst Sess., p. 2.
It is hard for us to assume that Congress adopted that
drastic course in the case of friendly or neutral foreign
interests whose investments in our economy were in no
way infected with enemy ownership or control. Our hesitation is, moreover, increased when we note that § 7 (c) '
makes the remedy under the Act the only one Congress
has granted a claimant. It is not easy for us to assume
that Congress treated all non-enemy nations, including
6 As to the powers of the custodian or other agency designated'
by the President over the property, see § 5 (b) (1), supra note 4,
and 4 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

our recent allies, in such a harsh manner, leaving them
only with such remedy as they might have under the
Fifth Amendment.
The problem is not without its difficulties whichever
way we turn. But we think that we adhere more closely
to the policy of both § 5 (b) as amended and §9 (a),
if we do not carry over into the amended Act the consequences of Behn, Meyer & Co.v. Miller, supra.
As we have observed, the scheme of the Act when Behn,
Meyer & Co. v. Miller was decided was to respect the
corporate form, even though the enemy held all the
stock of the corporate claimant. Hamburg-American
Co. v. United States, supra. The 1941 amendment to
§ 5 (b) reflected a complete reversal in that policy. The
power of seizure and vesting was extended to all property of any foreign country or national so that no innocent appearing device could become a Trojan horse. Congress did not, however, alter tle definitions of enemy or of
ally of enemy contained in § 2. They remain the same
as they were at the time Behn, Meyer, & Co. v. Miller
was decided.!
Yet if the question were presented -for the first time
under the amended Act,. we could not confine the statutory definitions of enemy or ally of enemy to the narrow
categories indicated by Behn, Meyer & Co. v. Miller.
To do so would be to run counter to the policy of the Act
and be disruptive of its purpose. We are dealing with
hasty legislation which Congress did not stop to perfect
as an integrated whole: Our task is to give all of it1917 to 1941-the most harmonious, comprehensive
meaning possible.' Markham v. Cabell, supra. So if the
definitions, contained in § 28 are to be harmonized with
the policy underlying § 5 (b) and § 9 (a) of the amended
Act, we would have to say that they are merely illusSee note 2, supra.
, See note 2, supra.
8

CLARK v. UEDERSEE FINANZ-KORP.
480

489

Opinion of the Court.

trative, not exclusionary. To do otherwise would be to
impute to Congress a purpose to paralyze with one hand
what it sought to promote with the other.
There is perhaps in logic some basis for saying that
that should be the consequence since Congress did not
amend § 2 when it revised the Act by its amendment
of § 5 (b). The argument is that the only change effected
was in § 5 (b) and that § 2 which stands unamended
should be taken to mean what it meant before 1941.
But the answer to our problem cannot be had by the use
of logic alone. We are dealing here with conflict and
confusion in the statute, Though neither § 2 nor § 9 (a)
was amended with § 5 (b) in 1941, one of them must be
read differently after than before that event. We believe
it is more consonant with the functions sought to be served
by the Act to apply § 2 differently than it was previously
applied than to read § 9 (a) more restrictively. We believe a more harmonious reading of § 2, § 5 (b) and § 9
(a) is had if the concept of enemy or ally of enemy is given
a scope which helps the amendment of 141 fulfill its
mission and which does not make § 9 (a) for the first
time in itg history and contrary to the normal connotation
of its terms stand as a barrier to the recovery of property
by foreign interests which have no possible connection
with the enemy.
It is suggested, however, that this-approach may produce results which are both absurd and uncertain. It is
said that the entire property of a corporation would be
jeopardized merely because a negligible stock interest,
perhaps a single share, was directly or indirectly owned or
contfolled by an enemy or ally of an enemy. It is also
pointed out that securities or interests other than stock
might be held by an enemy or ally of an enemy and used
effectively in economic warfare against this country. But
what these interestg are, the extent of holdings necessary
to constitute an enemy taint, what part of a friendly alien

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

corporation's property may be retained where only a
fractional enemy ownership appears, are left undecided.
Since we assume from the allegations of the complaint
-that respondent is free of enemy taint and -herefore is
not within the definition of enemy or ally of an enemy,
those problems are not now before us. We recognize
their importance; but they must await legislativeI or
judicial clarification.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

WILLIAMS ET AL. v. FANNING, POSTMASTER OF
LOS ANGELES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued October 22, 1947.-Decided December 8, 1947.

1. Those against whom the Postmaster General has issued a postal
fraud order may sue the local postmaster to enjoin him from
carrying out the order; and the Postmaster General is not an
indispensable party. Pp. 492-494.
2. The superior officer is an indispensable party if a decree granting
the relief sought will require him to take action, either by exercising
directly a power lodged in him or by having a subordinate exercise
it for him. Pp. 492-493.
3. The superior officer is not an indispensable party if the decree
which is entered would effectively grant the relief desired by expending itself on the subordinate official who is before the court. Pp.
493-494.
158 F. 2d 95, reversed.
*See 60 Stat. 50, adding § 32 (a) (2) (E) to the'Act.

