OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v.
PHILLIPS, STATE REVENUE COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 385. Argued April 9, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. A charter granted by the State of Georgia to a railroad company
in 1833 provided that "The stock of the said company and its
branches shall be exempt from taxation for and during the term of
seven years from and after the completion of the said rail roads or
any one of them: and after that, shall be subject to a tax not exceeding one half per cent. per annum on the net proceeds of their investments." In 1937 the State imposed a tax of 51/2 per cent on the
net income of all domestic and foreign corporations and in 1941
assessed deficiencies for such taxes against a lessee of the railroad.
Held, following a decision of the highest court of the State, that
the 1833 exemption did not apply to taxes on "income," imposed by
a statute in 1937, and, therefore, the tax did not impair the obligation of the railroad's charter contrary to Art. I, ยง 10, of the Federal
Constitution. Pp. 169-174.
2. Earlier decisions of this Court construing the same tax exemption
provision, in cases involving property taxes and not a conventional
income tax, are not controlling here. Pp. 173-174.
200 Ga. 856,38 S. E. 2d 774, affirmed.

The railroad company appealed to the state courts from
a tax assessment under a state statute challenged as violative of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
The trial court gave judgment for the railroad. The
State Supreme Court reversed. 200 Ga. 856, 38 S. E. 2d
774. On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 174.
CarlH. Davis and T. M. Cunningham argued the cause
for appellant. With them on the brief was Philip H.
Alston.
Victor Davidson and Claud Shaw, Assistant Attorneys
General of Georgia, argued the cause for appellee. With
them on the brief were Eugene Cook, Attorney General,
and C. E. Gregory, Jr., Assistant Attorney General.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. PHILLIPS.
168

MR.

169

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

delivered thi opinion of the

Court.
This was a proceeding in the courts of Georgia to declare
invalid an assessment by the State Revenue Commissioner
against the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company on the
ground that the tax as applied to the appellant impairs
the obligation of contracts. United States Constitution,
Art. I, Sec. 10.
To encourage railroad development, the State of
Georgia in 1833 chartered the Georgia Railroad Company
(which later became the Georgia Railroad and Banking
Company), and gave the railroad certain immunity from
taxation. Georgia's increasing need of tapping new
sources of revenue has not unnaturally brought to the
courts the scope of this immunity. Its construction in
relation to the claim of Georgia, .that despite the charter
of 1833 the appellant is subject to its corporate income
tax, is the sole issue before us.
The case is this. Georgia, in 1937, imposed a tax of 51/2
per cent. on the net income of all domestic and foreign corporations. Acts 1931, Extra. Sess. pp. 24, 26, amended,
Acts 1937, pp. 109, 117; Ga. Ann. Code ยง 92-3102. No
claim under this corporate income tax was made against
the Atlantic Coast Line, one of the lessees of the Georgia
Rairroad, until 1941. For the calendar years 1941, 1942,
1943, the State Revenue Commissioner assessed against
the appellant deficiency taxes on the basis of its net
income from the road, computed at the 5 per cent. rate
paid by all corporations. It is this assessment that is
contested. The appellant resisted on the ground that
the attempt of Georgia to impose this tax is in disregard
of the obligation assumed by Georgia through ยง 15 of
the Charter of 1833. The Supreme Court of Georgia
sustained the assessment, holding that the tax exemption
of the charter related merely to the limits to which a tax
on the railroad property could be levied, such a property

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

tax to be measured so as not to exceed one-half per cent.
of the net earning power of the properties. 200 Ga. 856,
38 S. E. 2d 774. The exemption, so the State Supreme
Court found, was not concerned with what we now know
as a corporate net income tax and therefore did not bargain
away the power of the legislature to impose such a tax.
A claim that a State statute impairs the obligation of
contract is an appeal to the United States Constitution,
and cannot be foreclosed by a State court's determination whether there was a contract or what were its obligations. But while it is true that we are not bound by
the construction of local statutes by the local courts in
deciding the Constitutional question, "yet when we are
dealing with a matter of local policy, like a system of
taxation, we should be slow to depart from their judgment, if there was no real oppression or manifest wrong
in the result." Clyde v. Gilchrist, 262 L. S. 94, 97.
The Georgia Supreme Court had to construe the following Georgia language:
"The stock of the said company and its branches shall
be exempt from taxation for and during the term of
seven years from and after the completion of the said
rail roads or any one of them: and after that, shall be
subject to a tax not exceeding one half per cent. per
annum on the net proceeds of their investments."
ยง 15, Act of December 21, 1833, Acts 1833, pp. 256,
263-64.
It is not for us to read such a local law with independent
but innocent eyes, heedless of a construction placed upon
it by the local court. Such a tax provision is not a collocation of abstract words. In seeking the meaning conveyed
by a local enactment it must be viewed as part of the
whole texture of local laws and of the economy to which
they apply. The language draws to itself presuppositions not always articulated, and even what is expressed

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. PHILLIPS.
168

171

Opinion of the Court.

in words may carry meaning to insiders which is not
within the sure discernment of those'viewing the law
from a distance. And so we are not prepared to say
that the Supreme Court of Georgia was "manifestly
wrong," Hale v. State Board, 302 U. S. 95, 101, in construing the exemption as limiting merely the right to impose
property taxes. Our search is for something other than
the meaning which the tax specialists may today find in
the words. "It is for the meaning that at a particular
time and place and in the setting of a particular statute
might reasonably have acceptance by men of common understanding." Hale v. State Board, supra. We should
reject the construction which the Georgia Supreme Court
has placed upon what the Georgia Legislature of 1833
wrote only if we can be confident that the Georgia Legislature of 1833, by the words it used, could not have expressed the meaning thus attributed to it. A fair regard
for the place of income taxes, as now commonly conceived,
in the thought and practice concerning fiscal matters
prevalent in 1833 precludes the rejection of' the interpretation by the Georgia Court of the exemption of 1833.
There were, to be sure, so-called "faculty taxes" in
Colonial times which had some of the characteristics of
our present income taxes in that ability to pay was an
ingredient. But even these taxes, hardly income taxes
as we now know them, had by 1833 generally ceased to be,
and perhaps even to be remembered. See, e. g., Seligman,
The Income Tax (2d ed.) Part II, c. I, pp. 367 et seq.;
compare Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171. In Georgia, the only imposition even remotely classifiable as an
income tax because presumably based on ability to pay is
that illustrated by a levy of "The sum of four dollars on all
professors of law and physic, and the sum of fifty dollars
on all billiard tables . . ."
Law No. 590, 1797, Watkins
Digest of the Laws of Georgia, 1755-1799, pp. 646, 648.
Not until the Civil War did Georgia, like the Federal Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

ernment, resort to what was indisputably an income tax.
On the other hand, to read as the Georgia Supreme Court
read the exemption provision of the Charter of 1833, as
dealing with a tax on property, fairly reflects a practice,
not unknown in the earlier days, of assessing property for
tax purposes not by its exchange value but by its earning
power. See, e. g., Seligman, The Income Tax (2d ed.)
pp. 382-83; Report of Special Commission on Taxation,
Connecticut 1887, p. 9, with comments thereon in Kennan,
Income Taxation, p. 207.
In this setting, it would savor of dogmatism to infuse
into the 1833 exemption the income tax atmosphere of
our own day. It does not seem inadmissible for the Supreme Court of Georgia to have found that what the
Georgia Legislature of 1833 sought was to measure the
commonplace property tax of the time not by a flat sum,
or on the basis of a value abstractly. ascertained, but in
accordance with the fruits of the property, modestly
limited.
To sanction such a restricted reading of the exemption
is to respect a rule deeply rooted in history and policy,
according to which contracts of tax exemption are to be
read "narrowly and strictly." Hale v. State Board, supra,
at 109. To recognize that more than a hundred years
ago the Georgia Legislature did not forever bargain away
the wholly untapped domain of income taxation is to
recognize the governing consideration that "The power of
taxation is never to be regarded as surrendered or bargained away if there is room for rational doubt as to the
purpose." This was said whin an earlier controversy
affecting this charter was here. Wright v. Georgia Railroad and Banking Co., 216' U. S. 420, 438. As to the
astuteness of taxpayers in ordering their affairs so as to
minimize taxes, we have said that "the very meaning
of a line in the law is that you intentionally may go as
close to it as you can if you do not pass it." Superior

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. PHILLIPS:
168

173

Opinion of the Court.

Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 280 U. S. 390, 395-96. This is so
because "nobody owes any public duty to pay more than
the law demands: taxes are enforced exactions, not voluntary contributions." Learned Hand, C. J., dissenting in
Commissioner v. Newman, 159 F. 2d 848, 851. Conversely, the State, insofar as it may limit its basic power
to tax to enable government to go on, can sail as closely
as astuteness permits to the line of an immunity from
such exaction. This is an old canon of judicial construction. The policy on which it rests antedates the
charter before us, and it forms the setting in which
the exemption is to be read. See, e. g., Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 7 Pick. (Mass. 1829) 344, affirmed, 11 Pet. 420 (1837). This requirement in the
construction of legislative grants, especially tax exemptions, is merely an aspect of respecting legislative purpose.
A legislature is not to be presumed to have relinquished its
power of taxation beyond the narrowest rational reading
of an exemption. The potential need of all governmental
powers, and fairness in the distribution of burdens or in the
enjoyment of privileges, preclude such an assumption.
We have carefully considered the earlier cases in which
the scope of this exemption came before this Court. Central Railroad and Banking Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665;
Wright v. Georgia Railroad and Banking Co., supra;
Wright v. Central of Georgia R. Co., 236 U. S. 674;
Wright v. Louisville and Nashville R. Co., 236 U. S. 687;
Central of GeorgiaR. Co. v. Wright, 248 U. S. 525; Central
of Georgia R. Co. v. Wright, 250 U. S. 519. It is
needless to rehearse the issues they involved. Suffice it
to say that the prior taxes found to have been barred by
the exemption were all taxes on the railroad property.
Now for the first time we are called upon to examine a
candid, conventional income tax. Passing reference to
"income" when the Court's mind was not focused upon
the validity of an income tax as such must not be torn

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

332 U. S.

from the context of discussion of property taxes. In
any event, these phrases leave untouched our duty to

respect the judgment of a State court as to the fair intendment of an exemption.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, agreeing with the Court's conclusions concerning the meaning of the Georgia statute,
concurs in the result.

SUNAL v. LARGE, SUPERINTENDENT, FEDERAL
PRISON CAMP.
NO. 535.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued April 1, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.
1. In a criminal prosecution under the Selective Training and Service

Act of 1940 for failure to submit to induction into the Army, a
federal district court improperly denied to a defendant who had fully
exhausted his administrative remedy the right to defend on the
ground of the invalidity of his classification by the local Board as
available for military service rather than as an exempt minister of

religion. He was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment but
took no appeal. Held: He could not later obtain a review of his
conviction by a habeas corpus proceeding. Pp. 175-184.
2. In the circumstances of this case, the failure of the defendant to
take an appeal from the judgment of conviction can not be justified
on the ground that an appeal was deemed futile because of the
state of the law at that time--i. e., after the decision of this
Court. in Falbo v. United States, 320 U. S. 549, and before the
decision in Estep v. United States, 327 U. S.114. P. 181.
3. The trial court's error in the ruling on the question of law did not
deprive the defendant of any right under the Federal Constitution.
P. 182.
157 F. 2d 165, affirmed.
157 F. 2d 811, reversed.
*Together with No. 840, Alexander, Warden, v. United States ex rel.
Kulick, on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

