UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO. 301
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY
OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 235.

Argued April 8-9, 1947.-Decided June 23, 1947.

A soldier in the Army of the United States was injured by a motor
truck, through negligence of the driver. The expenses of his
hospitalization were borne by the United States; and he continued
to receive his Army pay during the period of his disability. The
United States brought suit in a federal district court against the
owner and driver of the truck as tort-feasors to recover the amounts
expended for hospitalization and soldier's pay during the period of
disability, as for loss of the soldier's services. Held:
1. The decision is governed not by the law of the state where
the injury occurred but by federal law, even though Congress
has not acted affirmatively concerning the specific question. Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, distinguished. Pp. 305-311.
2. In the absence of legislation by Congress on the subject, the
United States was not entitled to recover on the claim. Pp. 311-317.
3. It is for Congress, not the judiciary, to make new laws con-..
cerning the right of the Government to recover for the loss of a
soldier's services. Pp. 314-317.
153 F. 2d 958, affirmed.

The United States brought suit in the District Court
to recover on a claim arising out of injuries sustained by
a soldier as a result of negligence of the defendants. The
District Court gave judgment for the United States. 60
F. Supp. 807. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
153 F. 2d 958. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S.
696.

Affirmed, p. 317.

Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Acting
Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General
Sonnett and Paul A. Sweeney.

Frank B. Belcher argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Not often, since the decision in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U. S. 64, is this Court asked to create a new substantive
legal liability without legislative aid and as at the common
law. This case of first impression here seeks such a result. It arises from the following circumstances.
Early one morning in February, 1944, John Etzel, a
soldier, was hit and injured by a truck of the Standard
Oil Company of California at a street intersection in Los
Angeles. The vehicle was driven by Boone, an employee
of the company. At the Government's expense of
$123.45 Etzel was hospitalized, and, his soldier's pay of
$69.31 was continued during his disability. Upon the
payment of $300 Etzel released the company and Boone
"from any and all claims and demands which I now have
or may hereafter have, on account of or arising out of"
the accident.1
From these facts the novel question springs whether
the Government is entitled to recover from the respondents as tort-feasors the amounts expended for hospitalization and soldier's pay, as for loss of Etzel's services.
A.jury being waived, the District Court made findings of
fact and conclusions of law in the Government's favor
upon all the issues, including those of negligence and contributory negligence. Judgment was rendered accordingly. 60 F." Supp. 807. This the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, 153 F. 2d 958, and we granted certiorari
because of the. novelty and importance of the principal
question 2 329 U. S.696.
1 The instrument of release recited that the payment "is not, and

is not to be construed as" an admission of liability.
2 The Government's petition for certiorari asserted that "upwards
of 450 instances of negligently inflicted injuries upon soldiers of
the United States, requiring hospitalization at. Government expense,
and the payment of compensation during incapaditation, have been

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

303

Opinion of the Court.

As thelcase reaches us, a number of issues contested in
the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have
been eliminated.' Remaining is the basic question of respondents' liability for interference with the governmentsoldier relation and consequent loss to the United States,
together with questions whether this issue is to be determined by federal or state law' and concerning the
reported by the War Department to the Department of Justice in
the past three years," and that additional instances were being reported to the Wor Department at the rate of approximately 40 a
month.
The suit also was said to be representative of a number already
commenced, e. g., United States v. Atlantic Coast LineR. Co., 64 F.
Supp. 289 (E. D. N. C.), dismissed on the ground that no masterservant relationship existed, and United States v. Klein, 153 F. 2d 55
(C. C. A. 8), an action to recover hospital and medical expenses incurred as a result of an injury to a Civilian Conservation Corps
employee, dismissed for the reason that the United States Employees' Compensation Act, 5 U; S. C. § 751 et seq., was held to afford
the Government a method of recoupment, concededly not available
here.
3 Including the issues of negligence and contributory negligence,
as to which a stipulation of record on the appeal to th6 Circuit Court
of Appeals states that evidence other than that set forth in the
stipulation is omitted "for the reason that appellants are not making
any point on appeal as to the insufficiency of the evidence either to
prove negligence or the absence of contributory negligence."
Although the District Court refused to find that Eizel as a soldier
was "as such, a servant of the plaintiff," respondents designated as
the points on appeal on which they intended to rely: That the United
States had no cause of action or right to recover for the compensation
:paid Etzet or for the medical and hospital expenditures; that he
"Was not an employee of the plaintiff nor was plaintiff his master
nor did the relation of employer or employee exist between them";
and that his release was effective to end "all right to recover for
lost wages or medical or hospital expefises."
4 The Circuit Court of Appeals, considering that at the outset it
was "confronted with the problem of what law should apply," said:
"Aside from any federal legislation conferring a right of subrogation
or indemnification upon the United States, it would seem that the

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

effect of the release.' In the view we take of the case
it is not necessary to consider the questions relating to the
release,6 for we have reached the conclusion that respondents are not liable for the injuries inflicted upon the
Government.
state rules of substantive common law would govern an action
'brought by the United States in the role of a private litigant. Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, 71, 78; United States v. MoscowIdaho Seed Co., supra [92 F. 2d 170], at pages 173, 174." 153 F. 2d
at 960. The court then indicated agreement with appellant that California's statutory law, namely, § 49 of the Civil Code, was controlling
and concluded that the Government's case "must fail for two reasons:
first, because the government-soldier relation is not within the scope
of § 49 of the Code, and, second, because the government is not a
'master' and the soldier is not a 'servant' within the meaning of the
Code section." 153 F. 2d at 961.
The court further concluded, however, that Etzel's release "covered his lost wages and medical expenses as elerhents of damage," and
therefore was effective to discharge all liability, including any right of
subrogation in the United States "without statutory authority."
Finally the opinion stated: ". . . it seems clear that Congress did not
intend that for tortious injuries to a soldier in time of war, the government should be subrogated to the soldier's claims for damages."
Id. at 963.
5 See note 3. The Government's claim, of course, is not one for
subrogation. It is rather for an independent liability owing directly
to itself as for deprivation of the soldier's services and "indemnity"
for losses caused .in discharging its duty to care for him consequent
upon the injuries inflicted by appellants. See Robert Marys's Case,
Vol. 5, Part 9 Co..Rep. at 113a. It is, in effect, for tortious interference by a third person with the relation between the Government
and the soldier and consequent harm to the Government's interest,
rights and obligations in that relation, not simply to subrogation to
the soldier's rights against the tor't-feasors.
6 We may assume that the release was not effective to discharge
any liability owing independently to the Government, cf. note .5,
although fully effective as against any claim by the soldier. Only
if such an independent liability were found to exist would any issue
concerning the release be reached.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

305

Opinion of the Court.

We agree with the Government's view that the creation
or negation of such a liability is not a matter to be determined by state law. The case in this aspect is governed
by the rule of Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318
U. S. 363, and National Metropolitan Bank v. United
States, 323 U. S. 454, rather than that of Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, supra. In the Clearfield case, involving liabilities arising out of a forged indorsement of a check issued
by the United States, the Court said: "The authority to
issue the check had its origin in the Constitution and the
statutes of the United States and was in no way dependent
on the laws of Pennsylvania or of any other state. Cf.
Board of Cbmmissioners V. United States, 308 U. S. 343;
Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 289.
The duties imposed upon the United States and the rights
acquired by it as a result of the issuance find their roots
in the same federal sources. Cf. Deitrick v. Greaney, 309
U. S. 190; D'Oench, Duhme & Co. v. Federal Deposit Ins.
Corp., 315 U. S. 447. In the absence of an applicable
Act of Congress it is for the federal courts to fashion the
governing rule of law according to their own standards."
318 U. S. at 366-367.
Although the Clearfield case applied these principles to a situation involving contractual relations of the
Government, they are equally applicable in the facts of
this case where the relations affected are noncontractual
or tortious in character.
Perhaps no relation between the Government and a
citizen is more distinctively federal in character than that
between it and members of its armed forces. To whatever extent state law may apply to govern the relations
between soldiers or others in the armed forces and persons
outside them or nonfederal governmental agencies, the
scope, nature, legal incidents and consequences of the relation between persons in service and the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

are fundamentally derived from federal sources and governed by federal authority. See Tarble's Case, 13
Wall. 397; Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487. So also
we think are interferences with that relationship such as
the facts of this case involve. For, as the Federal Government has the exclusive power to establish and define
the relationship by virtue of its military and other powers,7
equally clearly it has power in execution of the same functions to protect the relation once formed from harms
inflicted by others.8
Since also the Government's purse is affected, as well
as its power to protect the relationship, its fiscal powers,
to the extent that they are available to protect it against
financial injury, add their weight to the military basis
for excluding state intrusion. Indeed, in this aspect the
case is not greatly different from the Clearfield case or
from one involving the Government's paramount power
of control over its own property, both to prevent its unauthorized use or destruction and to secure indemnity for
those injuries."
Including the powers of Congress to "provide, for the common

Defence," "raise and support Armies," and "make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces," U. S. Const.,
Art. I, § 8, as well as "To declare War" and "To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the fore.
going Powers ....

."

Ibid.

8The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals seems to have been
predicated upon the assumption that Congress could override any
contrary rule of state law and that the California law governs only
in the absence of Congress' affirmative action. See note 4 supra.
9
See U. S. Const., Art. IV, § 3, cl.2: "The Congress shall have
Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations
respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United
States .... "; Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S.518, 524: "...

the Government has, with respect to its own lands, the rights of an
ordinary proprietor, to maintain its possession and to prosecute trespassers"; United States v. Walter, 263 U. S. 15, 17: "The United
States tan protect its property by criminal laws ......

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

307

Opinion of the. Court.

As in the Clearfieldcase, moreover, quite apart from any
positive action by Congress, the matter in issue is neither
primarily one of state interest nor exclusively for determination by state law within the spirit and purpose of
the Erie decision. The great object of the Erie case was to
secure in the federal courts, in diversity cases, the application of the same substantive law as would control if the
suit were brought in the courts of the state where the
federal court sits. It was the so-called "federal common
law" utilized as a substitute for state power, to create and
enforce legal relationships in the area set apart in our
scheme for state rather than for federal control, that the
Erie decision threw out. Its object and effect were thus
to bring federal judicial power ufider subjection to state
authority in matters essentially of local interest and state
control.
Conversely there was no purpose or effect for broadening state power over matters essentially of federal
character or for determining whether issues are of that
nature. The diversity jurisdiction had not created special
problems of that sort. Accordingly the Erie decision,.
which related only to the law to be applied in exercise of
that jurisdiction, had no effect, and was intended to have
none, to bring within the governance of state law matters
exclusively federal, because made so by constitutional or
valid congressional command, or others so vitally affecting
interests, powers and relations of the Federal Government
as to require uniform national disposition rather than
diversified state rulings. Cf. Clearfield Trust Co. v.
United States, 318 U. S. at 366-368. Hence, although
federal judicial power to deal with common-law problems
was cut down in the realm of liability or its absence governable by state law, that power remained unimpaired for
dealing independently, wherever necessary or appropriate,
with essentially federal matters, even though Congress has
not acted affirmatively about the specific question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

In this sense therefore there remains what may be
termed, for want of a better label, an area of "federal
common law" or perhaps more accurately "law of independent federal judicial decision," outside the constitutional realm, untouched by the Erie decision. As
the Government points out, this has been demonstrated broadly not only by the Clearfield and National Metropolitan Bank cases, but also by other
decisicis rendered here since the Erie case went down, 0
whether or not the Government is also correct in
saying the fact was foreshadowed the same day by Hinder,liderv. La Plata Co., 304 U. S; 92, 110, in a unanimous
opinion delivered likewise by Mr. Justice Brandeis.1'
It is true, of course, that in many situations, and apart
from any supposed influence of the Erie decision, rights,
interests and legal relations of- the United States are determined by application of state law, where Congress has
not acted specifically. "In our choice of the applicable
federal rule we have occasionally selected state law."
Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318 U. S. at 367.
The Government, for instance, may place itself in a position where its rights necessarily -re determinable by-state
law, as when it purchases real estate from one whose title
10 Bodrd of Commissioners v, United States, 308 U. S. 343; Deitrick
v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190; Royal Indemnity Co. v. United States,
313 U. S. 289; D'Oonch, Duhme & Co. v. FederalDeposit Ins. Corp.,
315 U. S. 447; United States.v. Allegheny County, 322 U. S. 174;
Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392. See also discussion in Notes,
Federal Common Law in Government Action for Tort (1946) 41 -Ill.
L. Rev. 551; Exceptions to Erie v. Tompkins: The Survival of Federal
Common Law (1946) 59 Harv. L. Rev. 966,
" If the ruling followed, that the w.,ters of. an interstate stream
must be equitably apportioned among the states through which it
flows -in the arid regions of the West, is not properly to be characterized as merely' one of "federal common law," it marks off at any rate
another -area for federal judicial decision not dependent on application

of state law or, indeed, upon the existence of federal legislation.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

309

Opinion of the Court.

is invalid by that law in relation to another's claim. Cf.
United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315.12 In other situations
it may fairly be taken that Congress has consented to
application of state law, when acting partially in relation to federal interests and functions, through failure
to make other provision concerning matters ordinarily so
governed.' And in still others state law may furnish
convenient solutions in no way inconsistent with adequate
protection of the federal interest.
But we do not undertake to delimit or categorize the
instances where it is properly to be applied outside the
Erie aegis. It is enough for present purposes to point out
that they exist, cover a variety of situations, and generally
involve matters in which application of local law not only
affords a convenient and fair mode of disposition, but also
is either inescapable, as in the illustration given above, or
does not result in substantially diversified treatment where
uniformity is indicated as more appropriate, in view of
the nature of the subject matter and the specific issues
affecting the Government's interest.
Whether or not, therefore, state law is to control in
such a case as this is not at all a matter to be decided by
application of the Erie rule. For, except where the Government has simply substituted itself for others as successor to rights governed by state law, the question is one
of federal policy, affecting not merely the federal judicial
establishment aid the groundings of its action, but also
the Government's legal interests and relations, a factor
not controlling in the types of cases producing and gov12 The problem of the Government's immunity to suit is different,
of course, from that of the nature of the substantive rights it may
acquire, for example, by the purchase of property as against claims
of others for which there may or may not be available a legal remedy
against it.

s See Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5; Reconstruction Finance
Corp. v. Beaver County, 328 U. S.204.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

erned by the Erie ruling. And the answer to be given
necessarily is dependent upon a variety of considerations
always relevant to the nature of the specific governmental
interests and to the effects upon them of applying state
law. These include not only considerations of federal supremacy in the performance of federal functions, but of the
need for uniformity and, in some instances, inferences
properly to be drawn from the fact that Congress, though
cognizant of the particular problem, has taken no action
to change long-settled ways of handling it.
Leaving out of account, therefore, any supposed effect
of the Erie decision, we nevertheless are of opinion that
state law should not be selected as the federal rule for
governing the matter in issue. Not only- is the government-soldier relation distinctively and exclusively a creation of federal law, but we know of no good reason why
the Government's right to be indemnified in these circumstances, or the lack of such a right, should vary in
accordance with the different rulings of th6 several states,
simply because the soldier marches or today perhaps as
often flies across state lines.
Furthermore, the liability sought is not essential or even
relevant to protection of the state's citizens against tortious harms, nor indeed for the soldier's personal indemnity or security, except in the remotest sense,"' since his
personal rights against the wrongdoer may be fully protected without reference to any indemnity for the Government's loss.1" It is rather a liability the principal, if not
the only, effect of which would be to make whole the fedThat is, if potential added liability ever can be considered as
having effect to deter the commission of negligent torts, the imposition
of liability to indemnify the Government in addition to indemnifying
the soldier conceivably could be thought to furnish some additional
incentive for avoiding such harms.
15See note 5 supra.
14

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

311

Opinion of the Court.

eral treasury for financial losses sustained, flowing from
the injuries inflicted and the Government's obligations to
the soldier. The question, therefore, is chiefly one of
federal fiscal' policy, not of special or peculiar concern to
the states or their citizens. And (because those matters
ordinarily are appropriate for uniform national treatment
rather -than diversified local disposition, as well where
Congress has not acted affirmatively as where-it has, they
are more fittingly determinable by independent federal
judicial decision than by reference to varying state
policies.
We turn, finally, to consideration of the policy properly
to be applied concerning the wrongdoer, whether of liability or of Qontinued immunity as in the past. Here the
Government puts forward interesting views to support
its claim of responsibility. It appeals first to the great
principle that the law can never be ,wholly static.
Growth, it urges, is the life of the law as it is of all living
things. And in this expansive and creative living process, we are further reminded, the judicial inatitution'has
had, and must continue to have a large and pliant, if also
a restrained and steady, hand. Moreover, the special
problem here has roots in the ancient soil of tort law,
wherein the chief ,plowman has been the judge, notwithstanding his furrow may be covered up or widened by
legislation.
Bringing the argument down to special point, counsel
has favored us with scholarly discussion of the origins and
foundations of liabilities considered analogous and of
their later expansion to include relations not originally
comprehended. These embrace particularly the liabilities created by the common law, arising from tortious injuries inflicted upon persons standing in various special
legal relationships, and causing harm not only to the injured person but alsoj as for loss of services and assimilated

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

injuries, to the person to whom he is bound by the relation's tie. Such, for obvious examples, are the master's
rights of recovery for loss of the services of his servant or
apprentice; " the husband's similar action for interference with the marital relation, including loss of consortium
as well as the wife's services; and the parent's right to indemnity for loss of a child's services, including his action
for a daughter's seduction.'
Starting with these long-established instances, illustrating the creative powers and functions of courts, the
argument leads on in an effort to show that the government-soldier relation is, if hot identical, still strongly
analogous; "8that the analogies are not destroyed by any
of the variations, some highly anomalous," characterizing
one or more of the settled types of liability; and that an
16 As to the ancient action for loss of services, existent in Bracton's
day, see Wigmore, Interference With Social Relations (1887) 21
Amer. L. Rev. 764; VIII Holdsworth, A History of English Law
(2d ed., 1937) 427-430; II Id., 459-464; IV Id., 379--387; Pollock, The
Law of Torts (13th ed.) 234-239; Clerk & Lindsell on Torts (8th
ed.) 201-212.
17 Extension of the action per quod servitium amisit to domestic
relations, upon a fictional basis, took place as early as 1653. Norton
vw Jason, Style 398; see Winfield, Textbook of the Law of Tort
(2d ed.) 257.
I Analogies are drawn concerning' the nature of the relation both
on the basis of status, underlying the earlier forms of liability, and
•on that of its asserted contractual character, in the latter instance
to the rather far-fetched extent of regarding the drafted soldier as
having entered into a "contract implied in law."
19E. g., in the fiction of loss of services involved in the father's
action for a daughter's seduction and in the husband's action for
loss of consortium. Compare Serjeant Manning's oft-quoted statement that "the quasi fiction of servitium amisit affords protection
to the rich man, whose daughter occasionally makes his tea, but
leaves without redress the poor man, whose child, as here, is sent,
unprotected, to earn her bread amongst strangers." Note to Grinnell v. Wells, 7 Man. & Gr. at p. 1044.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

313

Opinion of the Court.

exertion of creative judicial power to bring the government-soldier relation under the same legal protection
against tortious interferences by strangers would be only
a further and a proper exemplification of the law's capacity to catch up with the times. Farther elaboration
of the argument's details would be interesting, for the
law has no more attractive scene of action than in the
broad field compendiously labeled the law of torts, and
within it perhaps none more engrossing than those areas
dealing with these essentially human and highly personal
relations.
But we forego the tendered opportunity. For we think
the argument ignores factors of controlling importance
distinguishing the present problem from those with which
the Government seeks to bring it -into companionate
disposition. These are centered in the very fact that it
is the Government's interests and relations that are involved, rather than the highly personal relations out of
which the assertedly comparable liabilities arose; and in
the narrower scope, as compared with that allowed courts
of general common-law jurisdiction, for the action of
federal courts in such matters.
We would not deny the Government's basic premise of
the law's capacity for growth, or that it must include the
creative work of judges. Soon all law, would. become
antiquated strait jacket and then dead letter, ii that power
were lacking. And the judicial hand would stiffen in
mortmain if it had no part in the work of creation. But
in the federal scheme our part in that work, and the part
of the other federal courts, outside the constitutional area
is more modest than that of state courts, 'particularly in
the freedom to create new common-law liabilities,. as Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins itself witnesses. See also United
States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

332 U. S.

Moreover, as the Government recognizes for one phase
of the argument but ignores for the other,' we have not
here siihply a question of creating a new liability in the
nature of a tort.21 For grounded though the argument is
in analogies drawn from that field, the issue comes down
in final consequence-to a questiori of federal fiscal policy,
coupled with considerations concerning the need for and
the appropriateness of means to be used in executing
the policy sought to be established. The tort law analogy
is brought forth, indeed' not to secure a new step forward
in expanding the recognized area for applying settled
principles of that law as such, or for creating new ones.
It is advanced rather as the instrument for determining
and establishing the federal fiscal and regulatory policies
which the Government's executive arm thinks shouldprevail in a situation not covered by traditionally established liabilities.
Whatever the merits of the policy, its conversion into
law is a proper subject for congressional action, not for any
creative power-of ours. Congress, not this Court or the
other federal courts, is the custodian of the national purse.
By the same token it is the primary and most often the
exclusive arbiter of federal fiscal affairs. And these com20 That is, in the phase stressing that the question is not to be
determined by applying state law, the emphasis is put upon the
federal aspect of the case, but in that advancing the thesis of liability
for acceptance as the federal rule, stress goes to the tort grounding
of the argument:
21 The Government does not contend that the liability sought has
existed heretofore. It frankly urges the creation of'a new one. The
only decision determining the matter, which has come to our attention, in addition to the cases cited above in note 2, is that of the
High Court of Australia in Commonwealth v. Quince, 6$ C. L. R.
227, aff'g, (1943) Q. S. R. 199, denying liability. See also AttorneyGeneral v. Valle-Jones, [1935] 2 K. B. 209, reaching a contrary result,
in which however the principal issue apparently went by concession.

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO.
301

315

Opinion of the Court.

prehend, as we have said, securing the treasury or the
government against financial losses however inflicted, 4ncluding requiring reimbursement for injuries creating
them, as well as filling the treasury itself.
Moreover Congress without doubt has been conscious
throughout most of its history that the Government constantly sustains losses through the tortious or even criminal conduct of persons interfering with federal funds,
property and relationships. We cannot assume that it
has been ignorant that losses long have arisen from injuries inflicted on soldiers such as occurred here. The
case therefore is not one in which, as the Government
argues, all that is involved is application of "a well-settled
concept of legal liability to a new situation, where that
new situation is in every respect similar to the old situation that originally gave rise to the concept . .. ."
Among others, one trouble with this is that the situation is
not new, at any rate not so new that Congress can be presumed not to have known of it or to have acted in the light
of that knowledge.
When Congress has thought it necessary to take steps
to prevent interference with federal funds, property or
relations, it has taken positive action to that end.22 ' We
22See, e. g., 35 Stat. 1097, 18 U. S. C. § 94 (enticing desertion

from the military or naval service); 35 Stat. 1097, 18 U. S. C. § 95
(enticing workmen from arsenals or armories); 35 Stat. 1097, 18

U. S. C. § 99 (robbery of personal property belonging to the United
States); 35 Stat. 1097, 18 U. S. C. § 100 (embezzlement of property
belonging to the United States).
Of course it has not been necessary for Congress to pass statutes
imposing civil liability in those situations where it has been under-

stood since the days of the common law that the sovereign is protected
from tortious interference. Thus, trespass on land belonging to
the United States is a civil wrong to be remedied in the courts.
Cotton v. United States, 11 How. 229.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Oj ilion of the Court.

332 U. S.

think it would have done so here, if that had been its
desire. This it still may do, if or when it so wishes.
In view of these considerations, exercise of judicial
power to establish the new liability not only would be intruding within a field properly within Congress' control
and as to a matter concerning which it has seen fit to
take no action. To accept the challenge, making the
liability effective in this case, also would involve a possible element of surprise, in view of the settled contrary
practice, which action by Congress would avoid, 3 not only
here but in the many other cases we are told may be
governed by the decision.
Finally, if *the common-law precedents relied on were
more pertinent than they are to the total problem, particularly in view of its federal and especially its fiscal
aspects, in none of the situations to which they apply was
the question of liability or no liability within the. power
of one of the parties to the litigation to determine.' In
them the courts stood as arbiters between citizens, neither
of whom could determine the outcome or the policy properly to be followed. Here the United States is the party
plaintiff to the suit. And the United States has power
at any time to create the liability. The only question is
which organ of the Government is to make the determination that liability exists. That decision, for the reaNecessarily such an element or effect often, if not always, exists
whenever a new liability is created, as at common law, in the nature of,
r~sponsibility for tort. . This, however, could not be made an invariably controlling consideration in cases presenting common-law issues
concerning such liabilities to tribunals whose business it is primarily
to decide them, for to do this would forestall all growth in the law
except by legislative action.

The factor, however, is one generally

to be taken into account and weighed against the social need dictating the new responsibility, in cases squarely presenting those issues
and not complicated, as this case is, by considerations arising from

distributions of power in the federal system,

UNITED STATES v. STANDARD OIL CO. 317
301

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

sons we have stated, is in this instance for the Congress,
not for the courts. Until it acts to establish the liability,
this Court and others should withhold creative touch.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurs in the result.

dissenting.

If the defendant in this case had been held liable for
negligently, inflicting personal injuries on a civilian, it
would have been obliged to pay, among other items of
damage, the reasonable cost of resulting care by his doctor,
hospital and nurse, and the earnings lost during the period
of disability. If the civilian bore this cost himself, it
would be part of his own damage; if the civilian were a
wife and the expense fell upon her husband, he would be
entitled to recover it; if the civilian were a child, it would
be recoverable by the parent. The long-established law
is that a wrongdoer who commits a tort against a civilian
must make good to somebody these elements of the costs
resulting from his wrongdoing.
What the Court now holds is that if the victim of negligence is a soldier, the wrongdoer does not have to make
good these items of expense to the one who bears them.
The United States is under the duty to furnish medical
services, hospitalization and nursing to a soldier and loses
his services while his pay goes on. These costs, which
essentially fall upon the United States by reason of the
sovereign-soldier relationship, the Court holds cannot be
recovered by the United States from the wrongdoer as
the parent can in the case of a child or the husband can
in the case of a wife. As a matter of justice, I see no
reason why taxpayers of the United States should relieve
a wrongdoer of part of his normal liability for personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

332 U. S.

injury when the victim of negligence happens to be a
soldier. And I cannot see why the principles of tort law
that allow a -husband or parent to recover do not logically
sustain the right of the United States to recover in this
case.
But the Court has qualms about applying these wellknown principles of tort law to this novel state of facts,
unless directed to do so by Congress. The law of torts
has been developed almost exclusively by the judiciary in
England and this country by common law methods.
With few exceptions, tort liability does not depend upon
legislation. If there is one function which I should think
we would feel free to exercise under a Constitution which
vests in us judicial power, it would be to apply wellestablished common law principles to a case whose only
novelty is in facts. The courts of England, whose scruples against legislating are at least as sensitive as ours
normally are, have not hesitated to say that His Majesty's
Treasury may recover outlay to cure a British soldier
from injury by a negligent wrongdoer and the wages he
was meanwhile paid. Attorney-General v. Valle-Jones,
[1.935] 2 K. B. 209. I think we could hold as much
without being suspected of trying to usurp legislative
function.

