OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Syllabus.

378 U. S.

MURPHY ET AL. V. WATERFRONT COMMISSION
OF NEW YORK HARBOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 138.

Argued March 5, 1964.-Decided June 15, 1964.

Although petitioners were granted immunity from prosecution under
state laws, they refused to answer questions at a hearing conducted by the respondent on the ground that the answers might
tend to incriminate them under federal law, to which the grant
of immunity did not extend. They were held in civil and criminal
contempt of court. The State Supreme Court reversed the criminal conviction on procedural grounds but affirmed the civil contempt judgment, holding that a State may constitutionally compel
a witness to give testimony which might be used against him in a
federal prosecution. Held: One jurisdiction in our federal system
may not, absent an immunity provision, compel a witness to give
testimony which might incriminate him under the laws of another
jurisdiction.
(a) A state witness granted immunity from prosecution under
state law may not be compelled to give testimony which may
incriminate him under federal law unless such testimony and its
fruits cannot be used in connection with a federal prosecution
against him; and such use of compelled testimony or its fruits, as
distinguished from independent evidence, by the Federal Government must be proscribed. Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S.
487, overruled. Pp. 79-80.
(b) The State may thus obtain information requisite for effective law enforcement and the witness and the Federal Government
are left in the same position as if the witness claimed his privilege
in the absence of a state grant of immunity. P. 79.
(c) With the removal of the fear of federal prosecution, the
petitioners may be compelled to answer. Pp. 79-80.
39 N. J. 436, 189 A. 2d 36, judgment vacated in part, affirmed in
part, and remanded.

Harold Krieger argued-the cause and filed briefs for
petitioners.
William P. Sirignano argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Irving Malchman.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

53

Opinion of the Court.

Briefs of amici curiae, urging affirmance, were filed by
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New York,
Samuel A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General,
Irving Galt, Assistant Solicitor General, and Barry Mahoney, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, for the State
of New York; and by H. Richard Uviller and Michael'R.
Juviler for the National District Attorneys' Association.
MR. JUSTICE GOLDBERG delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We have held today that the Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination must be deemed fully
applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment. Malloy v. Hogan, ante, p. 1. This case presents a related issue: whether one jurisdiction within our
federal structure may compel a witness, whom it has immunized from prosecution under its laws, to give testimony which might then be used to convict him of a crime
against another such jurisdiction.1
Petitioners were subpoenaed to testify at a hearing
conducted by the Waterfront Commission of New York
Harbor concerning a work stoppage at the Hoboken, New
Jersey, piers. After refusing to respond to certain questions about the stoppage on the ground that the answers
might tend to incriminate them, petitioners were granted
immunity from prosecution under the laws of New Jersey
and New York.2 Notwithstanding this grant of immunity, they still refused to respond to the questions on the
'Since

the privilege is now fully applicable to the State and to

the Federal Government, the basic issue is the same whether the testimony is compelled by the Federal Government and used by a State,
or compelled by a State and used by the Federal Government.
2 The Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor is a bistate
body established under an interstate compact approved by Congress.
67 Stat. 541.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

ground that the answers might tend to incriminate them
under federal law, to which the grant of immunity did not
purport to extend. Petitioners were thereupon held in
civil and criminal contempt of court. The New Jersey
Supreme Court reversed the criminal contempt conviction on procedural grounds but, relying on this Court's
decisions in Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371; Feldman
v. United States, 322 U. S. 487; and United States v.
Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, affirmed the civil contempt judgments on the merits. The court held that a State may
constitutionally compel a witness to give testimony which
might be used in a federal prosecution against him.' 39
N. J. 436, 452-458, 189 A. 2d 36, 46-49.
Since a grant of immunity is valid only if it is coextensive with the scope of the privilege against self-incrimination, Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, we must
now decide the fundamental constitutional question of
whether, absent an immunity provision, one jurisdiction
in our federal structure may compel a witness to give
testimony which might incriminate him under the laws
of another jurisdiction. The answer to this question
must depend, of course, on whether such an application
of the privilege promotes or defeats its policies and
purposes.
, At a prior hearing, petitioners had refused to answer the questions, not on the ground of self-incrimination, but on the ground that
the Commission had no statutory authority to investigate the work
stoppage because it involved a labor dispute over which the National Labor Relations Board had exclusive jurisdiction. This claim
was litigated through the state courts and rejected, 35 N. J. 62, 171
A. 2d 295, and this Court denied review, 368 U. S. 32. Petitioners
thereupon purged themselves of contempt but again refused to answer
the questions, this time on the ground of self-incrimination. In
reviewing the contempt judgments which form the bases of this case,
the New Jersey Supreme Court correctly held that petitioners did
not, at the prior hearing, waive their privilege against self-incrimination. 39 N. J. 436, 449, 189 A. 2d 36, 44.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

55

Opinion of the Court.

I. THE POLICIES OF THE PRIVILEGE.

The privilege against self-incrimination "registers an
important advance in the development of our liberty'one of the great landmarks in man's struggle to make
himself civilized.'" Ullmann v. United States, 350 U. S.
422, 426.1 It reflects many of our fundamental values
and most noble aspirations: our unwillingness to subject
those suspected of crime to the cruel trilemma of selfaccusation, perjury or contempt; our preference for an
accusatorial rather than an inquisitorial system of criminal justice; our fear that self-incriminating statements
will be elicited by inhumane treatment and abuses; our
sense of fair play which dictates "a fair state-individual
balance by requiring the government to leave the individual alone until good cause is shown for disturbing him
and by requiring the government in its contest with the
individual to shoulder the entire load," 8 Wigmore, Evidence (McNaughton rev., 1961), 317; our respect for the
inviolability of the human personality and of the right of
each individual "to a private enclave where he may lead
a private life," United States v. Grunewald,233 F. 2d 556,
581-582 (Frank, J., dissenting), rev'd 353 U. S. 391; our
distrust of self-deprecatory statements; and our realization that the privilege, while sometimes "a shelter to the
guilty," is often "a protection to the innocent." Quinn v.
United States, 349 U. S. 155, 162.
Most, if not all, of these policies and purposes are
defeated when a witness "can be whipsawed into incriminating himself under both state and federal law even
though" the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination is applicable to each. Cf. Knapp v. Schweitzer,
357 U. S. 371, 385 (dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE
BLACK). This has become especially true in our age of
4 The

quotation is from Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today

(1955), 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

"cooperative federalism," where the Federal and State
Governments are waging a united front against many
types of criminal activity.'
5
Ithas been argued that permitting a witness in one jurisdiction
within our federal structure to invoke the privilege on the ground
that he fears prosecution in another jurisdiction:
"is rational only if the policy of the privilege is assumed to be to
excuse the witness from the unpleasantness, the indignity, the 'unnatural' conduct of denouncing himself. [But] the policy of the
privilege is not this. The policy of the privilege is to regulate a
particular government-governed relation-first, to help prevent inhumane treatment of persons from whom information is desired and,
second, to satisfy popular sentiment that, when powerful and impersonal government arrays its forces against solitary governed, it would
be a violation of the individual's 'sovereignty' and less than fair for
the government to be permitted to conscript the knowledge of the
governed to its aid. Where the crime is a foreign crime, any motive
to inflict brutality upon a person because of the incriminating nature
of the disclosure-any 'conviction hunger' as such-is absent. And
the sentiments relating to the rules of war between government and
governed do not apply where the two are not at war ...
"Thus, reasoning from its rationales, the privilege should not apply
no matter how incriminating is the disclosure under foreign law and no
matter how probable is prosecution by the foreign sovereignty. This
is so whether the relevant two sovereignties are different nations, different states, or different sovereignties (such as federal and state)
with jurisdiction over the same geographical area." 8 Wigmore,
Evidence (MeNaughton rev., 1961), 345.
As noted in the text, however, the privilege against self-incrimination represents many fundamental values and aspirations. It is "an
expression of the moral striving of the community. . . . a reflection
of our common conscience . . . ." Malloy v. Hogan, ante, p. 9, n. 7,
quoting Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today (1955), 73. That is
why it is regarded as so fundamental a part of our constitutional fabric, despite the fact that "the law and the lawyers ... have never made
up their minds just what it is supposed to do or just whom it is intended to protect." Kalven, Invoking the Fifth Amendment-Some
Legal and Impractical Considerations, 9 Bull. Atomic Sci. 181, 182.
It will not do, therefore, to assign one isolated policy to the privilege,
and then to argue that since "the" policy may not be furthered

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

57

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent contends, however, that we should adhere
to the "established rule" that the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination does not protect a witness
in one jurisdiction against being compelled to give testimony which could be used to convict him in another jurisdiction. This "rule" has three decisional facets: United
States v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, held that the Federal
Government could compel a witness to give testimony
which might incriminate him under state law; Knapp v.
Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371, held that a State could compel
a witness to give testimony which might incriminate him
under federal law; and Feldman v. United States, 322
U. S. 487, held that testimony thus compelled by a State
could be introduced into evidence in the federal courts.
Our decision today in Malloy v. Hogan, supra, necessitates a reconsideration of this rule.6 Our review of the
pertinent cases in this Court and of their English antecedents reveals that Murdock did not adequately consider the relevant authorities and has been significantly
weakened by subsequent decisions of this Court, and, further, that the legal premises underlying Feldman and
Knapp have since been rejected.
measurably by applying the privilege across state-federal lines, it
follows that the privilege should not be so applied.
6 The constitutional privilege against self-incrimination has two primary interrelated facets: The Government may not use compulsion
to elicit self-incriminating statements, see, e. g., Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; and the Government may not permit the use in a
criminal trial of self-incriminating statements elicited by compulsion.
See, e. g., Haynes v. Washington, 373 U. S. 503. In every "whipsaw"
case, either the "compelling" government or the "using" government
is a State, and, until today, the States were not deemed fully bound
by the privilege against self-incrimination. Now that both governments are fully bound by the privilege, the conceptual difficulty of
pinpointing the alleged violation of the privilege on "compulsion"
or "use" need no longer concern us.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

II. THE EARLY ENGLISH AND AMERICAN CASES.
A. The English Cases Before the Adoption
of the Constitution.
In 1749 the Court of Exchequer decided East India
Co. v. Campbell, 1 Ves. sen. 246, 27 Eng. Rep. 1010.
The defendant in that case refused to "discover" certain
information in a proceeding in an English court on the
ground that it might subject him to punishment in
the courts of India. The court unanimously held that the
privilege against self-incrimination protected a witness in
an English court from being compelled to give testimony
which could be used to convict him in the courts of
another jurisdiction. The court stated the rule to be:
"that this court shall not oblige one to discover that,
which, if he answers in the affirmative, will subject
him to the punishment of a crime . . . and that
he is punishable appears from the case of Omichund
v. Barker, [1 Atk. 21.] as a jurisdiction is erected
in Calcutta for criminal facts: where he may be sent
to government and tried, though not punishable
here; like the case of one who was concerned in a
rape in Ireland, and sent over there by the government to be tried, although the court of B. R. here
refused to do it . . . for the government may send
persons to answer for a crime wherever committed,
that he may not involve his country; and to prevent
reprisals." 1 Ves. sen., at 247, 27 Eng. Rep., at 1011.
In the following year, this rule was applied in a case
involving separate systems of courts and law located
within the same geographic area. The defendant in
Brownsword v. Edwards,2 Ves. sen. 243, 28 Eng. Rep. 157,
refused to "discover, whether she was lawfully married"
to a certain individual, on the ground that if she admitted
to the marriage she would be confessing to an act which,
although legal under the common law, would render her

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

59

Opinion of the Court.

"liable to prosecution in ecclesiastical court." The Lord
Chancellor said:
"This appears a very plain case, in which defendant may protect herself from making a discovery of
her marriage; and I am afraid, if the court should
over-rule such a plea, it would be setting up the oath
ex officio; which then the parliament in the time of
Charles I. would in vain have taken away, if the
party might come into this court for it. The general rule is, that no one is bound to answer so as to
subject himself to punishment, whether that punishment arises by the ecclesiastical law of the land."
2 Ves. sen., at 244-245, 28 Eng. Rep., at 158.
B. The Saline Bank Case.
It was against this background of English case law
that this Court in 1828 decided United States v. Saline
Bank of Virginia, 1 Pet. 100. The Government, seeking
to recover certain bank deposits, brought suit in the District Court against the bank and a number of its stockholders. The defendants resisted discovery of "any matters, whereby they may impeach or accuse themselves of
any offence or crime, or be liable by the laws of the
commonwealth of Virginia, to penalties and grievous
fines . . . ." Id., at 102. The unanimous opinion of the
Court, delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, reads as
follows:
"This is a bill in equity for a discovery and relief.
The defendants set up a plea in bar, alleging that the
discovery would subject them to penalties under the
statute of Virginia.
"The Court below decided in favour of the validity
of the plea, and dismissed the bill.
"It is apparent that in every step of the suit,
the facts required to be discovered in support of this
suit would expose the parties to danger. The rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

clearly is, that a party is not bound to make any
discovery which would expose him to penalties, and
this case falls within it.
"The decree of the Court below is therefore
affirmed." Id., at 104.
This case squarely holds that the privilege against selfincrimination protects a witness in a federal court from
being compelled to give testimony which could be used
against him in a state court.
C. Subsequent Development of the English Rule.
In 1851, the English Court of Chancery decided King
of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 61
Eng. Rep. 116, a case which this Court in UnitedStates v.
Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, erroneously cited as representing the settled "English rule" that a witness is not
protected "against disclosing offenses in violation of the
laws of another country." Id., at 149. Defendants in that
case resisted discovery of information, which, they asserted, might subject them to prosecution under the laws
of Sicily. In denying their claim, the Vice Chancellor said:
"The rule relied on by the Defendants, is one which
exists merely by virtue of our own municipal law,
and must, I think, have reference, exclusively, to matters penal by that law: to matters as to which, if disclosed, the Judge would be able to say, as matter of
law, whether it could or could not entail penal consequences." 1 Sim. (N. S.), at 329, 61 Eng. Rep., at 128.
Two reasons were given in support of this statement: (1)
"The impossibility of knowing, as matter of law, to what
cases the objection, when resting on the danger of incurring penal consequences in a foreign country, may extend . . . ," id., at 331, 61 Eng. Rep., at 128; and (2) the

fact that "in such a case, in order to make the disclosure
dangerous to the party who objects, it is essential that he

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

61

Opinion of the Court.

should first quit the protection of our laws, and wilfully
go within the jurisdiction of the laws he has violated," 7
ibid., 61 Eng. Rep., at 128.
Within a few years, the pertinent part of King of the
Two Sicilies was specifically overruled by the Court of
Chancery Appeal in United States of America v. McRae,
L. R., 3 Ch. App. 79 (1867), a case not mentioned
by this Court in United States v. Murdock, supra.
In McRae, the United States sued in an English court
for an accounting and payment of moneys allegedly received by the defendant as agent for the Confederate
States during the Civil War. The defendant refused to
answer questions on the ground that to do so would subject him to penalties under the laws of the United States.
The United States argued that the "protection from
answering applies only where a person might expose himself to the peril of a penal proceeding in this country
[England], and not to the case where the liability to penalty or forfeiture is incurred by the breach of the laws of
7

In The Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, decided by the Queen's
Bench in 1861, a witness had declined to answer a question on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate him, whereupon the
"Solicitor General then produced a pardon of the witness." Id., at
313. The witness nevertheless refused to answer the question on
the ground that he could still be impeached by the Parliament. The
court held:
"that the danger to be apprehended must be real and appreciable,
with reference to the ordinary operation of law in the ordinary course
of things-not a danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character,
having reference to some extraordinary and barely possible contingency, so improbable that no reasonable man would suffer it to
influence his conduct ....
Now, in the present case, no one seriously supposes that the witness runs the slightest risk of an impeachment . . . . No instance
of such a proceeding in the unhappily too numerous cases of bribery
which have engaged the attention of the House of Commons has ever
occurred, or, so far as we are aware, has ever been thought of." Id.,
at 330-331.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

a foreign country [the United States]." L. R., 3 Ch.
App., at 83-84. The United States relied on King of the
Two Sicilies v. Willcox, supra. The Lord Chancellor sustained the claim of privilege and limited King of the Two
Sicilies to its facts. He said:
"I quite agree in the general principles stated by
Lord Cranworth, and in their application to the
particular case before him.

.

.

. [The defendants

there] did not furnish the least information what
the foreign law was upon the subject, though it was
necessary for the Judge to know this with certainty
before he could say whether the acts done by the
persons who objected to answer had rendered
them amenable to punishment by that law or
not.

.

.

. [Moreover,] it was doubtful whether the

Defendants would ever be within the reach of a
prosecution, and their being so depended on their
voluntary return to [Sicily]." L. R., 3 Ch. App., at
84-87.
In refusing to follow King of the Two Sicilies beyond
its particular facts, the court said:
"But in giving judgment Lord Cranworth went beyond the particular case, and expressed his opinion
that the rule upon which the Defendants relied to
protect them from answering was one which existed
merely by virtue of our own municipal law, and
which must have reference exclusively to matters
penal by that law. It was unnecessary to lay down
so broad a proposition to support the judgment
which he pronounced . .

.

. What would have been

Lord Cranworth's opinion upon [the present] state
of circumstances it is impossible for me to conjecture;
but it is very different from that which was before
his mind in that case, and I cannot feel that there
is any judgment of his which ought to influence my
decision upon the present occasion." Id., at 85.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

63

Opinion of the Court.

The court then concluded that under the circumstances it could not "distinguish the case in principle
from one where a witness is protected from answering any
question which has a tendency to expose him to forfeiture
for a breach of our own municipal law." Id., at 87. This
decision, not King of the Two Sicilies, represents the
settled "English rule" regarding self-incrimination under
foreign law. See Heriz v. Riera, 11 Sim. 318, 59 Eng.
Rep. 896.
III. THE RECENT SUPREME COURT CASES.

In 1896, in Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, this Court,
for the first time, sustained the constitutionality of a federal immunity statute. Appellant in that case argued,
inter alia, that:

"while the witness is granted immunity from prosecution by the Federal government, he does not obtain such immunity against prosecution in the state
courts." Id., at 606.
The Court construed the applicable statute, however, to
prevent prosecutions either in state or federal courts.'
The Court in Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, signified approval of
the English rule announced in The Queen v. Boyes, supra, as follows:
"But even granting that there were still a bare possibility that by
his disclosure he might be subjected to the criminal laws of some
other sovereignty, that, as Chief Justice Cockburn said in The Queen
v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, in reply to the argument that the witness was
not protected by his pardon against an impeachment by the House
of Commons, is not a real and probable danger, with reference to
the ordinary operations of the law in the ordinary courts, but 'a
danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character, having reference to some extraordinary and barely possible contingency, so improbable that no reasonable man would suffer it to influence his
conduct.' Such dangers it was never the object of the provision to
obviate." 161 U. S., at 608. See note 7, supra.
The lower federal courts were also following the English rule that
a refusal to answer questions could legitimately be based on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U.S.

Shortly thereafter, the Court decided Jack v. Kansas,
199 U. S. 372, in which the state court had held plaintiff in error in contempt for his refusal to answer certain questions on the ground that they would subject him
to possible incrimination under federal law. In rejecting plaintiff's claim, this Court said that the Fifth
Amendment "has no application in a proceeding like
this," and hence "the sole question in the case" is
whether "the denial of his claim of right to refuse to
answer the questions was in violation of the Fourteenth
danger of incrimination in another jurisdiction. In the case of In re
Graham, 10 Fed. Cas. 913 (No. 5,659), for example, the witness
refused to answer questions asked by a federal official on the ground
that answers to such questions might expose "him to a criminal
prosecution under the laws of the state of New York." Id., at
914. Judge Blatchford held that the witness was "privileged from
answering the questions." Ibid. In the case of In re Hess, 134 F.
109, decided in 1905, where a bankrupt refused to answer certain
questions on the ground that they might tend to incriminate him
under state law, the court said:
"Section 860 of the Revised Statutes only prohibits the use of evidence that may be obtained from the bankrupt's books in prosecutions in the federal courts. There iq nothing in this section which
extends that immunity to the use of such evidence in the state courts,
and there is nothing to prevent the trustee from making use of the
bankrupt's books in a criminal prosecution against him instituted
in the state courts. Obviously, therefore, if section 7, cl. 9, of the
bankrupt act, does not protect him against the use of the evidence
which he alleges is contained in his books, of an incriminating nature,
in either the state or federal courts, and section 860 of the Revised
Statutes extends the immunity only to federal courts, and not to
state courts, it is plain that whatever incriminating evidence the
books may contain could be used without restriction in the state
courts for the purpose of convicting him of any crime for which he
might be indicted there, and, in consequence of this danger to him,
the plea of his constitutional privilege must prevail." Id., at 112.
Also see, e. g., In re Koch, 14 Fed. Cas. 832 (No. 7,916); In re Feldstein, 103 F. 269; In re Henschel, 7 Am. Bankr. R. 207; In re Kanter,
117 F. 356; In re Hooks Smelting Co., 138 F. 954, 146 F. 336.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

65

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment to the Constitution . . . ." Id., at 380. The
Court stated that it did "not believe that in such case
there is any real danger of a Federal prosecution, or
that such evidence would be availed of by the Government for such purpose." Id., at 382. Then, without
citing any authority, the Court added the following
cryptic dictum: "We think the legal immunity is in
regard to a prosecution in the same jurisdiction, and
when that is fully given it is enough." Ibid.
That this dictum related solely to the "legal immunity" under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment is apparent from the fact that it was regarded, five weeks later in Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S.
186, as wholly inapplicable to cases decided under the
Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment.9
Ballmann had been held in contempt of a federal court
for refusing to answer certain questions before a federal
grand jury. He claimed that his answers might expose
him "to the criminal law of the State in which the
grand jury was sitting." Id., at 195. Justice Holmes,
writing for a Court which included the author of Jack
v. Kansas, supra, squarely held that "[a]ccording to
United States v. Saline Bank, 1 Peters, 100, he was exonerated from disclosures which would have exposed him
to the penalties of the state law. See Jack v. Kansas,
199 U. S.372, decided this term." 200 U. S., at 195.
A few months after Ballmann, the Court decided Hale
v. Henkel, 201 U. S.43. Appellant had been held in contempt of a federal court for refusing to answer certain
questions and produce certain documents. His refusal
was based in part on the argument that the federal immunity statute did not protect him from state prosecution. The Government argued, on the authority of
Brown v. Walker, supra, that the statute did protect him
9 At this time, the privilege against self-incrimination had not yet
been held applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

from state prosecution. The Government assumed that
it was settled that a valid federal immunity statute would
have to protect against state prosecution. It never
suggested, therefore, that immunity from federal prosecution was all that was required. Appellant similarly
assumed, without argument, that the Constitution required immunity from state conviction as a condition of requiring incriminating testimony in a federal
court. Thus the critical constitutional issue-whether
the Fifth Amendment protects a federal witness from
incriminating himself under state law-was not briefed
or argued in Hale v. Henkel. Nor was its resolution
necessary to the decision of the case, for the Court could
have decided the relevant point on the authority of
Brown v. Walker, supra, which had held that a similar
federal immunity statute protected against state prosecution. Nevertheless, the Court went on to say:
"The question has been fully considered in England,
and the conclusion reached by the courts of that
country that the only danger to be considered is one
arising within the same jurisdiction and under the
same sovereignty. Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311;
King of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox, 7 State Trials
(N. S.), 1049, 1068; State v. March, 1 Jones (N. Car.),
526; State v. Thomas, 98 N. Car. 599.
"The case of United States v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet.
100, is not in conflict with this. That was a bill for
discovery, filed by the United States against the
cashier of the Saline Bank, in the District Court of
the Virginia District, who pleaded that the emission
of certain unlawful bills took place, within the State
of Virginia, by the law whereof penalties were inflicted for such emissions. It was held that defendants were not bound to answer and subject themselves to those penalties. It is sufficient to say that
the prosecution was under a state law which im-

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

67

Opinion of the Court.

posed the penalty, and that the Federal court was
simply administering the state law, and no question
arose as to a prosecution under another jurisdiction."
201 U. S., at 69.
This dictum, subsequently relied on in United States v.
Murdock, supra, was not well founded.
The settled English rule was exactly the opposite of
that stated by the Court. The most recent authoritative
announcement of the English rule had been that made in
1867 in United States of America v. McRae, supra,where
the Court of Chancery Appeals held that where there
is a real danger of prosecution in a foreign country, the
case could not be distinguished "in principle from one
where a witness is protected from answering any question
which has a tendency to expose him to forfeiture for a
breach of our own municipal law." Supra, at 63. The
dictum from King of the Two Sicilies cited by the Court
in Hale v. Henkel had been rejected in McRae. Moreover, the two factors relied on by the English court in
King of the Two Sicilies were wholly inapplicable to
federal-state problems in this country. The first-"The
impossibility of knowing, as matter of law, to what
cases the [danger of incrimination] may extend . . . ,"
supra,at 60-has no force in our country where the federal
and state courts take judicial notice of each other's law.
The second-that "in order to make the disclosure dangerous to the party who objects, it is essential that he
should first quit the protection of our laws, and wilfully
go within the jurisdiction of the laws he has violated,"
supra, at 60-61-is equally inapplicable in our country
where the witness is generally within "the jurisdiction" of
the State under whose law he claims danger of incrimination, and where, if he is not, the State may demand his
extradition. The second case relied on in Hale v. Henkel,
supra-The Queen v. Boyes, supra-was irrelevant to the
issue there presented. The Queen v. Boyes did not involve
736-666 0-65-7

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

different jurisdictions or systems of law. It merely held
that the danger of prosecution "must be real and appreciable . . . not a danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character . . . ." It in no way suggested that the
danger of prosecution under foreign law could be ignored
if it was "real and appreciable." 1o
Thus, the authorities relied on by the Court in Hale v.
Henkel provided no support for the conclusion that
under the Fifth Amendment "the only danger to be considered is one arising within the same jurisdiction and
under the same sovereignty." Nor was its attempt to
distinguish Chief Justice Marshall's opinion in United
States v. Saline Bank of Virginia, supra, more successful. The Court's reading of Saline Bank suggests that
the state, rather than the federal, privilege against selfincrimination applies to federal courts when they are
administering state substantive law. The most reason10 See note 7, supra. Nor were the North Carolina cases relied
on in Hale v. Henkel settled authority in favor of the proposition that
the Fifth Amendment did not protect a federal witness from incriminating himself under state law. In State v. March, 1 Jones (N. C.)
526, the North Carolina Supreme Court in 1853 did say that the
North Carolina "[c] ourts, in administering justice among their suitors,
will not notice the criminal laws of another State or country, so far as
to protect a witness from being asked whether he had not violated
them." That court, of course, was not applying either the Fifth
-Amendment or the Fourteenth Amendment (which was not yet enacted), and the North Carolina rule against self-incrimination apparently was narrower in scope than the federal rule. See State v.
Thomas, 98 N. C. 599, 603, 4 S. E. 518, 520 (citing cases). In any
event, the authority of the March case had been significantly diminished, if not discredited, by the second of the North Carolina cases
relied upon in Hale v. Henkel. In State v. Thomas, supra, the North
Carolina Supreme Court conceded that the March "case is not distinguishable in principle from that before us." It continued: "We
prefer, however, to put our decision upon other ground-more satisfactory to our own minds and well sustained by adjudications in other
Courts." 98 N. C., at 604, 4 S. E., at 520-521. (Emphasis added.)
The court then held that the witness had waived his privilege against
self-incrimination.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

69

Opinion of the Court.

able reading of that case, however, and the one which
was plainly accepted by Justice Holmes in Ballmann
v.

Fagin, supra, is that

the privilege

against

self-

incrimination precludes a federal court from requiring an
answer to a question which might incriminate the witness
under state law.," This reading is especially compelling
in light of the English antecedents of the Saline Bank
case. See East India Co. v. Campbell, discussed, supra,
at 58; and Brownsword v. Edwards, discussed, supra,
at 58-59.
The weakness of the Hale v. Henkel dictum was imme-

diately recognized both by lower federal courts 12 and by
this Court itself. In Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration, 273 U. S. 103, decided in 1927 by a unanimous
11 It has been argued that "[i]t is abundantly clear . . . that Saline
Bank stands for no constitutional principle whatever. It was merely
a reassertion of the ancient equity rule that a court of equity will not
order discovery that may subject a party to criminal prosecution.
In fact, the decision was cited in support of that proposition by an
esteemed member of the very Court that decided the case. 2 Story,
Commentaries on Equity, ยง 1494, n. 1 (1836)." Hutcheson v. United
States, 369 U. S. 599, 608, n. 13 (opinion of MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN).
The cited authority does not, however, support the argument
"that Saline Bank stands for no constitutional principle whatever."
That case was cited by Story, intermingled with more than a dozen
other cases, in a footnote to the following statement: "Courts of
Equity . . . will not compel a discovery in aid of a criminal prosecution . . . for it is against the genius of the Common Law to compel a party to accuse himself; and it is against the general principles
of Equity to aid in the enforcement of penalties or forfeitures."
(Emphasis added.) This statement suggests that the common-law
privilege and the equitable rule are so intermeshed that it serves no
useful purpose to attempt to ascertain whether a given application
by a Court of Equity rested on the former or the latter.
'12 See, e. g., United States v. Lombardo, 228 F. 980, aff'd on other
grounds, 241 U. S. 73, where the court accepted defendant's contention that if she answered certain questions, she might "incriminate
herself under the criminal laws of Washington." See also, e. g.,
Buckeye Powder Co. v. Hazard Powder Co., 205 F. 827; In re Doyle,
42 F. 2d 686, rev'd without opinion, 47 F. 2d 1086.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

Court, appellant refused to answer certain questions put
to him in a deportation pr6ceeding on the ground that
they "might have tended to incriminate him under the
Illinois Syndicalism Law . .

. ."

Id., at 112.

Instead

of deciding the issue on the authority of the Hale v.
Henkel dictum, the Court held that the privilege had been
waived. The Court then said:
"This conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider the extent to which the Fifth Amendment
guarantees immunity from self-incrimination under
state statutes or whether this case is to be controlled
by Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S. 591, 608; compare United States v. Saline
Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186,
195." 273 U. S., at 113.
In a subsequent case, decided in 1933, this Court said that
the question-whether "one under examination in a federal tribunal could not refuse to answer on account of
probable incrimination under state law"-was "specifically reserved in Vajtauer v. Comm'r of Immigration,"
and was not "definitely settled" until 1931. United States
v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 396.
In 1931, the Court decided United States v. Murdock,
284 U. S. 141, the case principally relied on by respondent
here. Appellee had been indicted for failing to supply certain information to federal revenue agents. He
claimed that his refusal had been justified because it
rested on the fear of federal and state incrimination. The
Government argued that the record supported only a
claim of state, not federal, incrimination, and that the
Fifth Amendment does not protect against a claim of
state incrimination. Appellee did not respond to the
latter argument, but instead rested his entire case on the
claim that his refusals had in each instance been based
on federal as well as state incrimination. In support of

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

71

Opinion of the Court.

its constitutional argument, the Government cited the
same two English cases erroneously relied on in the Hale
v. Henkel dictum-King of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox,
supra,which had been overruled, and The Queen v. Boyes,
supra, which was wholly inapposite. An examination of
the briefs and summary of argument indicates that neither
the Government nor the appellee informed the Court that
King of the Two Sicilies had been overruled by United
13
States of America v. McRae, supra.
This Court decided that appellee's refusal to answer
rested solely on a fear of state prosecution, and then concluded, in one brief paragraph, that such a fear did not
justify a refusal to answer questions put by federal
officers.
The Court gave three reasons for this conclusion. The
first was that:
"Investigations for federal purposes may not be
prevented by matters depending upon state law.
Constitution, Art. VI, ยง 2." 284 U. S., at 149.
This argument, however, begs the critical question. No
one would suggest that state law could prevent a proper
federal investigation; the Court had already held that
the Federal Government could, under the Supremacy
Clause, grant immunity from state prosecution, and that,
accordingly, state law could not prevent a proper federal
investigation. The critical issue was whether the Federal Government, without granting immunity from state
prosecution, could compel testimony which would incriminate under state law. The Court's first "reason" was not
responsive to this issue.
The second reason given by the Court was that:
"The English rule of evidence against compulsory
self-incrimination, on which historically that con13 The Government also relied on the North Carolina case of State
v. March, supra, which, as previously noted, see note 10, supra, had
been discredited by the subsequent case of State v. Thomas, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

tained in the Fifth Amendment rests, does not protect witnesses against disclosing offenses in violation
of the laws of another country. King of the Two
Sicilies v. Willcox, 7 State Trials (N. S.) 1050, 1068.
Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, 330." 284 U. S., at
149.
As has been demonstrated, the cases cited were in one
instance overruled and in the other inapposite, and the
English rule was the opposite from that stated in this
Court's opinion: The rule did "protect witnesses against
disclosing offenses in violation of the laws of another
country." United States of America v. McRae, supra.
The third reason given by the Court in Murdock was
that:
"This court has held that immunity against state
prosecution is not essential to the validity of federal
statutes declaring that a witness shall not be excused
from giving evidence on the ground that it will
incriminate him, and also that the lack of state power
to give witnesses protection against federal prosecution does not defeat a state immunity statute. The
principle established is that full and complete immunity against prosecution by the government compelling the witness to answer is equivalent to the
protection furnished by the rule against compulsory
self-incrimination. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142
U. S. 547. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 606.
Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, 381. Hale v. Henkel,
201 U. S. 43, 68." 284 U. S., at 149.
This argument-that the rule in question had already
been "established" by the past decisions of the Court-is
not accurate. The first case cited by the Court-Counselman v. Hitchcock-said nothing about the problem
of incrimination under the law of another sovereign. The
second case-Brown v. Walker-merely held that the

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

73

Opinion of the Court.

federal immunity statute there involved did protect
against state prosecution. The third case-Jack v. Kansas-held that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment did not prevent a State from compelling an
answer to a question which presented no "real danger
of a Federal prosecution." 199 U. S., at 382. The final
case-Hale v. Henkel--contained dictum in support of
the rule announced which was without real authority and
which had been questioned by a unanimous Court in
Vajtauerv. Commissioner of Immigration,supra. Moreover, the Court subsequently said, in no uncertain terms,
that the rule announced in Murdock had not been previously "established" by the decisions of the Court.
When Murdock appealed his subsequent conviction on
the ground, inter alia, that an instruction on willfulness
should have been given, the Court affirmed the Court of
Appeals' reversal of his conviction and said that:
"Not until this court pronounced judgment in
United States v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, had it been
definitely settled that one under examination in a
federal tribunal could not refuse to answer on
account of probable incrimination under state law.
The question was involved, but not decided, in Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186, 195, and specifically
reserved in Vajtauer v. Comm'r of Immigration,273
U. S. 103, 113." United States v. Murdock, 290
U. S.389, 396.
Thus, neither the reasoning nor the authority relied on
by the Court in United States v. Murdock, 284 U. S.141,
supports its conclusion that the Fifth Amendment permits the Federal Government to compel answers to
questions which might incriminate under state law.
In 1944 the Court, in Feldman v. United States, 322
U. S.487, was confronted with the situation where evidence compelled by a State under a grant of state immunity was "availed of by the [Federal] Government" and

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

introduced in a federal prosecution. Jack v. Kansas,
199 U. S., at 382. This was the situation which the Court
had earlier said it did "not believe" would occur. Ibid.
Nevertheless, the Court, in a 4-to-3 decision, upheld
this practice, but did so on the authority of a principle
which is no longer accepted by this Court. The Feldman
reasoning was essentially as follows:
"[T]he Fourth and Fifth Amendments, intertwined
as they are, [express] supplementing phases of the
same constitutional purpose . . . ." 322 U. S. 489490.
"[O]ne of the settled principles of our Constitution
has been that these Amendments protect only against
invasion of civil liberties by the [Federal] Government whose conduct they alone limit." Id., at 490.
"And so, while evidence secured through unreasonable search and seizure by federal officials is inadmissible in a federal prosecution, Weeks v. United
States, supra; . . . incriminating documents so secured by state officials without participation by
federal officials but turned over for their use are
admissible in a federal prosecution. Burdeau v.
McDowell, 256 U. S. 465." 322 U. S., at 492.
The Court concluded, therefore, by analogy to the then
extant search and seizure rule, that evidence compelled
by a state grant of immunity could be used by the
Federal Government. But the legal foundation upon
which that 4-to-3 decision rested no longer stands. Evidence illegally seized by state officials may not now be
received in federal courts. In Elkins v. United States,
364 U. S. 206, the Court held, over the dissent of the
writer of the Feldman decision, that "evidence obtained
by state officers during a search which, if conducted by
federal officers, would have violated the defendant's immunity from unreasonable searches and seizures under the
Fourth Amendment is inadmissible over the defendant's

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

75

Opinion of the Court.

timely objection in a federal criminal trial." 364 U. S.,
at 223. Thus, since the fundamental assumption underlying Feldman is no longer valid, the constitutional question there decided must now be regarded as an open one.
The relevant cases decided by this Court since Feldman
fall into two categories. Those involving a federal immunity statute-exemplified by Adams v. Maryland,
347 U. S. 179-in which the Court suggested that the
Fifth Amendment bars use by the States of evidence obtained by the Federal Government under the threat of
contempt. And those involving a state immunity statute-exemplified by Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S.
371-where the Court, applying a rule today rejected,
held the Fifth Amendment inapplicable to the States.14
In Adams v. Maryland, supra, petitioner had testified before a United States Senate Committee investigating crime, and his testimony had later been used to
convict him of a state crime. A federal statute at that
time provided that no testimony given by a witness in
congressional inquiries "shall be used as evidence in any
criminal proceeding against him in any court . . . ." 62
Stat. 833. The State questioned the application of the
statute to petitioner's testimony and the constitutionality
of the statute if construed to apply to state courts. The
Court, in an opinion joined by seven members, made the
following significant statement: "a witness does not need
any statute to protect him from the use of self-incriminating testimony he is compelled to give over his objection.
The Fifth Amendment takes care of that without a statute." 347 U. S., at 181.Y1 This statement suggests
14 In Mills v. Louisiana,360 U. S. 230, the Court, without opinion,
simply applied the rule announced in Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S.
371. In Hutcheson v. United States, 369 U. S. 599, there was no
opinion of the Court.
15 The Court in Adams v. Maryland, 347 U. S. 179, went on to construe the statute as affording more protection than would be provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

378 U. S.

that any testimony elicited under threat of contempt
by a government to whom the constitutional privilege
against self-incrimination is applicable (at the time of
that decision it was deemed applicable only to the Federal Government) may not constitutionally be admitted
into evidence against him in any criminal trial conducted
by a government to whom the privilege is also applicable.
This statement, read in light of today's decision in Malloy
v. Hogan, ante, at 1, draws into question the continuing authority of the statements to the contrary in United
States v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, and Feldman v. United
States, supra.6
Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371, involved a state
contempt conviction for a witness' refusal to answer
questions, under a grant of state immunity, on the ground
that his answers might subject him to prosecution under
federal law. Petitioner claimed that "the Fifth Amendment gives him the privilege, which he can assert against
either a State or the National Government, against giving testimony that might tend to implicate him in a violation" of federal law. Id., at 374. The Court, applyby the Fifth Amendment alone. It held that the statute applied
even where, as there, the witness had not claimed his privilege against
self-incrimination before being required to testify. It held, as well,
that the statute did, and constitutionally could, prevent use of the
testimony in state as well as federal courts.
16 In Ullmann v. United States, 350 U. S. 422, decided two years
after Adams, the Court did not reach the constitutional question of
whether a State could prosecute a person on the basis of evidence
obtained by the Federal Government under a federal immunity
statute. The Court again construed the applicable statute, which
related to testimony involving national security, to apply to the
States and held that the paramount federal "authority in safeguarding national security" justifies "the restriction it has placed
on the exercise of state power . . . ." Id., at 436.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

77

Opinion of the Court.

ing the rule then in existence, denied petitioner's claim
and declared that:
"It is plain that the [Fifth Amendment] can no
more be thought of as restricting action by the States
than as restricting the conduct of private citizens.
The sole-although deeply valuable-purpose of the
Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination
is the security of the individual against the exertion
of the power of the Federal Government to compel
incriminating testimony with a view to enabling that
same Government to convict a man out of his own
mouth." Id., at 380.
The Court has today rejected that rule, and with it, all
the earlier cases resting on that rule.
The foregoing makes it clear that there is no continuing
legal vitality to, or historical justification for, the rule that
one jurisdiction within our federal structure may compel
a witness to give testimony which could be used to convict
him of a crime in another jurisdiction.
IV. CONCLUSIONS.

In light of the history, policies and purposes of the
privilege against self-incrimination, we now accept as
correct the construction given the privilege by the English courts" and by Chief Justice Marshall and Justice
Holmes. See United States v. Saline Bank of Virginia,
supra; Ballmann v. Fagin, supra. We reject-as unsupported by history or policy-the deviation from that
construction only recently adopted by this Court in
United States v. Murdock, supra,and Feldman v. United
States, supra. We hold that the constitutional privilege
'17 The English rule apparently prevails also in Canada, Australia
and India. See Grant, Federalism and Self-Incrimination: Common
Law and British Empire Comparisons, 5 U. C. L. A. L. Rev. 1 (1958).

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
378 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against self-incrimination protects a state witness against
incrimination under federal as well as state law and a
federal witness against incrimination under state as well
as federal law.
We must now decide what effect this holding has on
existing state immunity legislation. In Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, this Court considered a federal
statute which provided that no "evidence obtained from
a party or witness by means of a judicial proceeding . . .
shall be given in evidence, or in any manner used against
him . . . in any court of the United States .

. . ."

Id.,

at 560. Notwithstanding this statute, appellant, claiming his privilege against self-incrimination, refused to
answer certain questions before a federal grand jury.
The Court said "that legislation cannot abridge a constitutional privilege, and that it cannot replace or supply
one, at least unless it is so broad as to have the same extent in scope and effect." Id., at 585. Applying this
principle to the facts of that case, the Court upheld appellant's refusal to answer on the ground that the statute:
"could not, and would not, prevent the use of his
testimony to search out other testimony to be used
in evidence against him or his property, in a criminal
proceeding in such court . . . ," id., at 564,

that it:
"could not prevent the obtaining and the use of witnesses and evidence which should be attributable
directly to the testimony he might give under compulsion, and on which he might be convicted, when
otherwise, and if he had refused to answer, he could
not possibly have been convicted

. . . ,"ibid.,

and that it:
"affords no protection against that use of compelled
testimony which consists in gaining therefrom a

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

79

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of the details of a crime, and of sources
of information which may supply other means of
convicting the witness or party." Id., at 586.
Applying the holding of that case to our holdings
today that the privilege against self-incrimination protects a state witness against federal prosecution, supra,
at 77-78, and that "the same standards must determine
whether [a witness'] silence in either a federal or state
proceeding is justified," Malloy v. Hogan, ante, at 11,
we hold the constitutional rule to be that a state witness
may not be compelled to give testimony which may be
incriminating under federal law unless the compelled testimony and its fruits cannot be used in any manner by
federal officials in connection with a criminal prosecution
against him. We conclude, moreover, that in order to
implement this constitutional rule and accommodate
the interests of the State and Federal Governments
in investigating and prosecuting crime, the Federal Government must be prohibited from making any such use
of compelled testimony and its fruits.1 8 This exclusionary rule, while permitting the States to secure information necessary for effective law enforcement, leaves the
witness and the Federal Government in substantially
the same position as if the witness had claimed his
privilege in the absence of a state grant of immunity.
It follows that petitioners here may now be compelled
to answer the questions propounded to them. At the
time they refused to answer, however, petitioners had a
reasonable fear, based on this Court's decision in Feldman
v. United States, supra, that the federal authorities might
use the answers against them in connection with a federal
IsOnce a defendant demonstrates that he has testified, under a
state grant of immunity, to matters related to the federal prosecution, the federal authorities have the burden of shoing that their
evidence is not tainted by establishing that they had an independent,
legitimate source for the disputed evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HARLAN, J., concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

prosecution. We have now overruled Feldman and held
that the Federal Government may make no such use of
the answers. Fairness dictates that petitioners should
now be afforded an opportunity, in light of this development, to answer the questions. Cf. Raley v. Ohio, 360
U. S. 423. Accordingly, the judgment of the New Jersey
courts ordering petitioners to answer the questions may
remain undisturbed. But the judgment of contempt is
vacated and the cause remanded to the New Jersey
Supreme Court for proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the judgment and
opinion of the Court for the reasons stated in that opinion
and for the reasons stated in Feldman v. United States,
322 U. S. 487, 494 (dissenting opinion), as well as Adamson v. California,332 U. S. 46, 68 (dissenting opinion);
Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 529 (concurring opinion); Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U. S. 121, 150 (dissenting
opinion); and Abbate v. UnitedStates, 359 U. S. 187, 201
(dissenting opinion).

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE CLARK joins,
concurring in the judgment.

Unless I wholly misapprehend the Court's opinion, its
holding that testimony compelled in a state proceeding
over a witness' claim that such testimony will incriminate
him may not be used against the witness in a federal
criminal prosecution rests on constitutional grounds.
On that basis, the contrary conclusion of Feldman v.
United States, 322 U. S. 487, is overruled.
I believe that the constitutional holding of Feldman
was correct, and would not overrule it. To the extent,
however, that the decision in that case may have rested

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

HARLAN,

81

J., concurring in judgment.

also on a refusal to exercise this Court's "supervisory
power" over the administration of justice in federal
courts, I think that it can no longer be considered good
law, in light of this Court's subsequent decision in
Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206. In Elkins, this
Court, exercising its supervisory power, did away with the
"silver platter" doctrine and prohibited the use of evidence unconstitutionally seized by state authorities in a
federal criminal trial involving the person suffering such
a seizure. I believe that a similar supervisory rule of
exclusion should follow in a case of the kind now before
us, and solely on that basis concur in this judgment.
I.
The Court's constitutional conclusions are thought by
it to follow from what it terms the "policies" of the privilege against self-incrimination and a re-examination of
various cases in this Court, particularly in the context of
early English law. Almost entirely absent from the
statement of "policies" is any reference to the particular

problem of this case; at best, the statement suggests the
set of values which are on one side of the issue. The discussion of precedent is scarcely more helpful. It intertwines decisions of this Court with decisions in English

courts, which perhaps follow a different rule,' and casts
1

The English rule is not clear. In United States of America v. McRae, L. R., 3 Ch. App. 79 (1867), the case on which the majority
primarily relies, the United States came into court as a party and
sought to elicit from the defendant answers which would have subjected him to a forfeiture of property under the laws of the United
States. Upholding the defendant's refusal to answer, the Lord Chancellor pointed out that the ". . . Plaintiffs calling for an answer are the
sovereign power by whose authority and in whose name the proceedings for the forfeiture are instituted, and who have the property to be
forfeited within their reach." Id., at 85. That case, in which one sovereign, as a party in a civil proceeding, attempted to use the judicial
process of another sovereign to obtain answers which would subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HARLAN,

J., concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

doubt for one reason or another on every American case
which does not accord with the result now reached.
When the skein is untangled, however, and the line of
cases is spread out, two facts clearly emerge:
(1) With two early and somewhat doubtful exceptions,
this Court has consistently rejected the proposition that
the witness to a forfeiture under the laws of the former is clearly
distinguishable from the present case.
In King of the Two Sicilies v. Willcox, 1 Sim. (N. S.) 301, 61 Eng.
Rep. 116 (1851), the Vice-Chancellor had said that "the rule of protection [against self-incrimination] is confined to what may tend to
subject a party to penalties by our own laws ....

."

Sim. (N. S.),

at 331, 61 Eng. Rep., at 128 (emphasis added). The Lord Chancellor
said in McRae, supra, that King of the Two Sicilies had been "most
correctly decided," L. R., 3 Ch. App., at 85, but that the general rule
there laid down was unnecessarily broad. He declined to apply the
rule in McRae on the ground that "the presumed ignorance of the
Judge as to foreign law .

.

. [had been] completely removed by the

admitted statements upon the pleadings, in which the exact nature
of the penalty or forfeiture incurred by the party objecting to answer
is precisely stated . . .

,"

L. R., 3 Ch. App., at 85, and the further

ground, noted above, that the property subject to a forfeiture was
"within the power of the United States," id., at 87.
The other two English cases which the majority cites in this connection were decided more than 100 years earlier than King of the
Two Sicilies. Moreover, both cases involved disclosures which would
have been incriminating under a separate system of laws operating
within the same legislative sovereignty. East India Co. v. Campbell,
1 Ves. sen. 246, 27 Eng. Rep. 1010 (Ex. 1749); Brownsword v. Edwards, 2 Ves. sen. 243, 28 Eng. Rep. 157 (Ch. 1750). In King of the
Two Sicilies, which involved the laws of another sovereign, the ViceChancellor observed that there was an "absence of all authority on the
point" raised before him. 1 Sim. (N. S.), at 331, 61 Eng. Rep., at 128.
There is little agreement among the authorities on the effect of
these cases. See Grant, Federalism and Self Incrimination: Common
Law and British Empire Comparisons, 5 U. C. L. A. L. Rev. 1-8; 8
Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed. 1940), ยง 2258, n. 3; Kroner, Self Incrimination: The External Reach of the Privilege, 60 Col. L. Rev. 816, 820,
n. 26; McNaughton, Self-Incrimination Under Foreign Law, 45 Va.
L. Rev. 1299, 1302.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

83

HARLAN, J., concurring in judgment.

the danger of incrimination in the court of another jurisdiction is a sufficient basis for invoking a privilege against
self-incrimination;
(2) Without any exception, in every case involving an
immunity statute in which the Court has treated the
question now before us, it has rejected the present majority's views.
The first of the two exceptional cases is United States
v. Saline Bank of Virginia, 1 Pet. 100, decided in 1828;
the entire opinion in that case is quoted in the majority
opinion, ante, pp. 59-60. It is not clear whether that case
has any bearing on the privilege against self-incrimination at all.2 The second case is Ballmann v. Fagin, 200
U. S. 186, decided in 1906. The statement that the appellant "was exonerated from disclosures which would
have exposed him to the penalties of the state law," id.,
at 195, was at best an alternative holding and probably
not even that.' Ballmann had based his refusal to testify
before the Grand Jury solely on the possibility of incrimination under state law, id., at 193-194. Nevertheless,
before considering the effect of state incrimination at all,
the Court pointed out that the facts showed a likelihood
2 Compare McNaughton, supra, note 1, at 1305-1306, with Kroner,
supra, note 1, at 818. See Hutcheson v. United States, 369 U. S.
599, 608, n. 13; Feldman v. United States, supra, at 494.
That this case has meant different things to different people is
evidenced by the opinion in Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, in which
the Court distinguished Saline Bank, presumably inadequately, on
the ground that in it "the Federal court was simply administering
the state law, and no question arose as to a prosecution under another
jurisdiction." 201 U. S., at 69.
3 In United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 396, the Court said
that the question whether "one under examination in a federal tribunal could . . . refuse to answer on account of probable incrimination under state law" had been "involved, but not decided" in
Ballmann.
736-666 0-65-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HARLAN,

J., concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

of incrimination under federal law. Id., at 195. The
Court then proceeded to say:
"Not impossibly Ballmann took this aspect of the
matter for granted, as one which would be perceived
by the court without his disagreeably emphasizing
his own fears. But he did call attention to another
less likely to be known. As we have said, he set
forth that there were many proceedings on foot
against him as party to a 'bucket shop,' and so subject to the criminal law of the State in which the
grand jury was sitting. According to United States
v. Saline Bank, 1 Peters, 100, he was exonerated from
disclosures which would have exposed him to the
penalties of the state law. See Jack v. Kansas, 199
U. S. 372, decided this term. One way or the other
we are of opinion that Ballmann could not be required to produce his cash book if he set up that it
would tend to criminate him." Id., at 195-196.
Since the Jack case which the Court cited immediately
after referring to Saline Bank had been decided just a
few weeks before Ballmann and was contrary to Saline
Bank, it is plain that the Court was not approving and
applying the latter case. The explanation for the Court's
inclusion of this ambiguous and inconclusive discussion
of state incrimination is surely the fact that Ballmann
had failed to set up the claim of federal incrimination on
which the Court relied.
Neither of these two cases, therefore, "squarely holds,"
ante, p. 60; see ante, p. 65, that a danger of incrimination
under state law relieves a witness from testifying before
federal authorities. More to the point, whatever force
these two cases provide for the majority's position is
wholly vitiated by subsequent cases, which are flatly
contradictory to that position.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

HARLAN,

85

J., concurring in judgment.

In Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, decided in 1905, the
Court considered a Kansas immunity statute. The witness had refused to testify on the ground that his testimony might incriminate him under federal law. The
Court upheld his commitment for contempt over his claim
that the immunity granted by the state statute was not
"broad enough," id., at 380, and that his imprisonment
therefore violated the Fourteenth Amendment. The
Court said:
"We think the legal immunity is in regard to a prosecution in the same jurisdiction, and when that is
fully given it is enough." Id., at 382.
The present majority characterizes, this statement as
"cryptic dictum," ante, p. 65. But, I submit, there is
nothing cryptic about it. Nor is it dictum. The Court
assumed for purposes of that case that the Fourteenth
Amendment required that a state statute "give sufficient
immunity from prosecution or punishment," id., at 380,
and it is evident from the opinion that the Court regarded
the remoteness of a danger of prosecution in the courts of
another jurisdiction, including the federal courts, as a
basis for holding generally, and not merely on the facts
of the case before it, that a state immunity statute need
not protect against such danger. See id., at 381-382.
The next case is Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, decided
one year later, shortly after Ballmann. The Court there
rejected the appellant's argument that the federal immunity statute to be valid had to confer immunity from
punishment under state law. It said:
"The further suggestion that the statute offers no
immunity from prosecution in the state courts was
also fully considered in Brown v. Walker and held to
be no answer. The converse of this was also decided
in Jack v. Kansas,199 U. S.372, namely, that the fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HUMAN,

J., concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

that an immunity granted to a witness under a state
statute would not prevent a prosecution of such witness for a violation of a Federal statute, did not
invalidate such statute under the Fourteenth Amendment. It was held both by this court and by the
Supreme Court of Kansas that the possibility that
information given by the witness might be used
under the Federal act did not operate as a reason for
permitting the witness to refuse to answer, and that
a danger so unsubstantial and remote did not impair
the legal immunity. Indeed, if the argument were
a sound one it might be carried still further and held
to apply not only to state prosecutions within the
same jurisdiction, but to prosecutions under the criminal laws of other States to which the witness might
have subjected himself. The question has been
fully considered in England, and the conclusion
reached by the courts of that country that the only
daiiger to be considered is one arising within the same
jurisdiction and under the same sovereignty. ..

.

201 U. S., at 68-69.'
In Vajtauer v. Commissionerof Immigration,273 U. S.
103, which did not involve an immunity statute, the Court
4 In Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, on which the Court relied in
Hale, the Court intimated that a federal immunity statute need not

protect a witness from "a bare possibility that by his disclosure he
might be subjected to the criminal laws of some other sovereignty."
161 U. S., at 608.
In Jack, supra, the Court described Brown as follows:
"In the subsequent case of Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, the statute
there involved was held to afford complete immunity to the witness,
and he was therefore obliged to answer the questions that were put
to him, although they might tend to incriminate him. In that case
it was contended, on the part of the witness, that the statute did not
grant him immunity against prosecutions in the state courts, although
it granted him full immunity from prosecution by the Federal Government. This contention was held to be without merit. While it

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

HARLAx,

87

J., concurring in judgment.

found it unnecessary to consider the question, extensively
argued by the parties, whether "the Fifth Amendment
guarantees immunity from self-incrimination under state
statutes . . . ," id., at 113; the Court indicated that it
did not necessarily regard Hale and Brown, supra,as conclusive of that question, ibid. Cf. United States v. Murdock, 290 U. S. 389, 396. Any doubts on this score, however, were settled in 1931, in United States v. Murdock,
284 U. S. 141. The Court there held unmistakably that
an individual could not avoid testifying in federal proceedings on the ground that his testimony might incriminate him under state law.
"This court has held that immunity against state
prosecution is not essential to the validity of federal
statutes declaring that a witness shall not be excused
from giving evidence on the ground that it will
incriminate him, and also that the lack of state power
to give witnesses protection against federal prosecution does not defeat a state immunity statute.
was asserted that the law of Congress was supreme, and that judges
and courts in every State were bound thereby, and that therefore
the statute granting immunity would probably operate in the state
as well as in the Federal courts, yet still, and aside from that view,
it was said that while there might be a bare possibility that a witness
might be subjected to the criminal laws of some other sovereignty,
it was not a real and probable danger, but was so improbable that
it needed not to be taken into account." 199 U. S., at 381. (Emphasis added.)
Brown is cited for the proposition that "full and complete immunity
against prosecution by the government compelling the witness to answer is equivalent to the protection furnished by the rule against
compulsory self-incrimination," in United States v. Murdock, 284
U. S. 141, 149. And see Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration,
273 U. S. 103, 113.
The majority is incorrect when it states, ante, p. 67, that the Court
in Hale, relying on King of the Two Sicilies, supra, disregarded a
"settled English rule" contrary to its own conclusion. See note 1,
supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HARLAN,

J., concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

The principle established is that full and complete
immunity against prosecution by the government
compelling the witness to answer is equivalent to
the protection furnished by the rule against compulsory self-incrimination." Id., at 149.
The Court has not until now deviated from that definitive ruling. In later proceedings in the Murdock case,
the Court said it was "definitely settled that one under
examination in a federal tribunal could not refuse to
answer on account of probable incrimination under state
law." 290 U. S. 389, 396. The Court adhered to this
view in Feldman, supra, where it established an equivalent rule allowing the use in a federal court of testimony
given in a state court. The general principle was said to
be one of "separateness in the operation of state and
federal criminal laws and state and federal immunity
provisions." 322 U. S., at 493-494.5
In Adams v. Maryland, 347 U. S. 179, the Court held
that a federal immunity statute,' the language of which
"could be no plainer," id., at 181, prohibited the use in
a state criminal trial of testimony given before a Senate
Committee. Quite obviously, the remark in Adams that
the Fifth Amendment protects a witness "from the use
of self-incriminating testimony he is compelled to give
over his objection," ibid., does not even remotely suggest
"that any testimony elicited under threat of contempt by
5

This was the principle underlying the decision in Feldman rather
than the so-called "Feldman reasoning," ante, p. 74, which, as described by the majority, consists of phrases plucked from separate
paragraphs appearing on four different pages of the reported opinion,
see Feldman, supra, at 489-492. The Court referred to the "silver
platter" doctrine only to illustrate a related principle then applicable
in the area of search-and-seizure. See id., at 492.
The majority is, however, correct in stating that the decision in
Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206, discarding the "silver platter"
doctrine has an important bearing on this case. See inIra, p. 91.
6 See Adams, supra, at 180, note 1.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

HARLAN,

89

J., concurring in judgment.

a government to whom the constitutional privilege against
self-incrimination is applicable . . .may not constitutionally be admitted into evidence against him in any
criminal trial conducted by a government to whom the
privilege is also applicable," ante, p. 76.
In Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371, the Court again
upheld the validity of state immunity statutes against the
charge that they did not, as they could not, confer immunity from federal prosecution. The Court adhered to
its position in Knapp, supra,in 1959, in Mills v. Louisiana,
360 U. S. 230.
This, then, is the "history" mustered by the Court in
support of overruling the sound constitutional doctrine
lying at the core of Feldman.
II.
Part I of this opinion shows, I believe, that the Court's
analysis of prior cases hardly furnishes an adequate basis
for a new departure in constitutional law. Even if the
Court's analysis were sound, however, it would not
support reversal of the Feldman rule on constitutional
grounds.
If the Court were correct in asserting that the "separate
sovereignty" theory of self-incrimination should be discarded, that would, as the Court says, lead to the conclusion that "a state witness [is protected] against incrimination under federal as well as state law and a federal
witness against incrimination under state as well as federal law." Ante, p. 78. However, dealing strictly with
the situation presented by this case, that conclusion does
not in turn lead to a constitutional rule that the testimony of a state witness (or evidence to which his testimony leads) who is compelled to testify in state proceedings may not be used against him in a federal prosecution.
Protection which the Due Process Clause affords against
the States is quite obviously not any basis for a constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
HARLAN, J.,

concurring in judgment.

378 U. S.

tional rule regulating the conduct of federal authorities in
federal proceedings.
The Court avoids this problem by mixing together the
Fifth Amendment and the Fourteenth and talking about
"the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination,"
ante, pp. 77-78. Such an approach, which deals with
"constitutional" rights at large, unrelated either to particular provisions of the Constitution or to relevant differences between the States and the Federal Government
warns of the dangers for our federalism to which the "incorporation" theory of the Fourteenth Amendment leads.
See my dissenting opinion in Malloy v. Hogan, ante,
p. 14.
The Court's reasons for overruling Feldman thus rest
on an entirely new conception of the Fifth Amendment,
namely that it applies to federal use of state-compelled
incriminating testimony. The opinion, however, contains nothing at all to contradict the traditional, wellunderstood conception of the Fifth Amendment, to which,
therefore, I continue to adhere:
"The sole-although deeply valuable-purpose of
the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination is the security of the individual against the
exertion of the power of the Federal Government to
compel incriminating testimony with a view to enabling that same Government to convict a man out
of his own mouth." Knapp v. Schweitzer, supra,
at 380.
It is no service to our constitutional liberties to encumber
the particular provisions which safeguard them with a
gloss for which neither the text nor history provides any
support.
Accordingly, I cannot accept the majority's conclusion
that a rule prohibiting federal authorities from using in
aid of a federal prosecution incriminating testimony compelled in state proceedings is constitutionally required.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

HARLAN,

91

J., concurring in judgment.

III.
I would, however, adopt such a rule in the exercise of
our supervisory power over the administration of federal
criminal justice. See McNabb v. United States, 318
U. S. 332, 340-341. The rule seems to me to follow from
the Court's rejection, in the exercise of its supervisory
power, of the "silver platter" doctrine as applied to the
use in federal courts of evidence unconstitutionally seized
by state officers. Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S. 206.
Since I reject the majority's argument that the "separate sovereignty" theory of self-incrimination is historically unfounded, I do not base my conclusion on the holding in Malloy, ante, that due process prohibits a State
from compelling a witness to testify. My conclusion is
based rather on the ground that such a rule is protective
of the values which the federal privilege against selfincrimination expresses, without in any way interfering
with the independent action of the States and the Federal Government in their respective spheres. Increasing
interaction between the State and Federal Governments
speaks strongly against permitting federal officials to
make prosecutorial use of testimony which a State has
compelled when that same testimony could not constitutionally have been compelled by the Federal Government
and then used against the witness. Prohibiting such use
in no way limits federal power to investigate and prosecute for federal crime, which power will be as full after
a State has completed an investigation as before. This
adjustment between state investigations of local crime
7 Speculation that federal agents may first have "gotten wind" of
a federal crime by a witness' testimony in state proceedings would
not be a basis for barring federal prosecution, unaided by the state
testimony. As I understand the rule announced today, albeit resting on premises which I think are unsound, it is a prohibition against
the use of state-compelled incriminating evidence or the "fruits"
directly attributable thereto in a federal prosecution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHiTE, J., concurring.

378 U. S.

and federal prosecutions for federal crime seems particularly desirable in view of the increasing, productive cooperation between federal and state authorities in the
prevention of crime. By insulating intergovernmental
cooperation from the danger of any encroachment on the
federal privilege against self-incrimination, such a rule in
the long run will probably make joint programs for crime
prevention more effective.'
On this basis, I concur in the judgment of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE WRITE,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE STEWART

joins, concurring.
The Court holds that the constitutional privilege
against self-incrimination is nullified "when a witness
'can be whipsawed into incriminating himself under both
state and federal law even though' the constitutional
privilege against self-incrimination is applicable to each."
Ante, p. 55. Whether viewed as an exercise of this Court's
supervisory power over the conduct of federal law enforcement officials or a constitutional rule necessary for
meaningful enforcement of the privilege, this holding
requires that compelled incriminating testimony given in
a state proceeding not be used in any manner by federal officials in connection with a federal criminal prosecution. Since these petitioners declined to answer in the
belief that their very testimony as well as evidence
derived from it could be used by federal authorities in a
criminal prosecution against them, they should be afforded
an opportunity to purge themselves of the civil contempt
convictions by answering the questions. Cf. Raley v.
Ohio, 360 U. S. 423.
In reaching its result the Court does not accept the
far-reaching and in my view wholly unnecessary constitu8

The question whether federally compelled incriminating testimony could be used in a state prosecution is not involved in this
case and would, of course, present wholly different considerations.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

93

WHiTE, J., concurring.

tional principle that the privilege requires not only cornplete protection against any use of compelled testimony
in any manner in other jurisdictions but also absolute
immunity in these jurisdictions from any prosecution pertaining to any of the testimony given. The rule which
the Court does not adopt finds only illusory support in a
dictum of this Court and, as I shall show, affords no more
protection against compelled incrimination than does the
rule forbidding federal officials access to statements made
in exchange for a grant of state immunity. But such a
rule would invalidate the immunity statutes of the 50
States since the States are without authority to confer
immunity from federal prosecutions, and would thereby
cut deeply and significantly into traditional and important areas of state authority and responsibility hi our
federal system. It would not only require widespread
federal immunization from prosecution in federal investigatory proceedings of persons who violate state criminal laws, regardless of the wishes or needs of local law
enforcement officials, but would also deny the States
the power to obtain information necessary for state law
enforcement and state legislation. That rule, read in
conjunction with the holding in Malloy v. Hogan, ante,
p. 1, that an assertion of the privilege is all but conclusive, would mean that testimony in state investigatory
prioeedings, and in trials also, is on a voluntary basis
only. The Federal Government would become the only
law enforcement agency with effective power to compel
testimony in exchange for immunity from prosecution under federal and state law. These considerations
warrant some elaboration.
I.
Among the necessary and most important of the
powers of the States as well as the Federal Government
to assure the effective functioning of government in an
ordered society is the broad power to compel residents to

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHITE, J., concurring.

378 U. S.

testify in court or before grand juries or agencies. See
Blair v. United States, 250 U. S. 273.1 Such testimony
constitutes one of the Government's primary sources of
information. The privilege against self-incrimination,
safeguarding a complex of significant values, represents
a broad exception to governmental power to compel the
testimony of the citizenry. The privilege can be claimed
in any proceeding, be it criminal or civil, administrative
or judicial, investigatory or adjudicatory, McCarthy v.
Arndstein, 266 U. S. 34, 40; United States v. Saline
Bank, 1 Pet. 100, and it protects any disclosures which
the witness may reasonably apprehend could be used in a
criminal prosecution or which could lead to other evidence
that might be so used. Mason v. United States, 244 U. S.
362; Hoffman v. United States, 341 U. S. 479. Because
of the importance of testimony, especially in the discovery of certain crimes for which evidence would not
otherwise be available, and the breadth of the privilege,
Congress has enacted over 40 immunity statutes and
every State, without exception, has one or more immunity acts pertaining to certain offenses or legislative investigations. 2 Such statutes have for more than a century been resorted to for the investigation of many
offenses, chiefly those whose proof and punishment were
otherwise impracticable, such as political bribery, ex1 The power and corresponding duty are recognized in the Sixth
Amendment's commands that defendants be confronted with witnesses and that they have the right to subpoena witnesses on their
own behalf. The duty was recognized by the first Congress in the
Judiciary Act of 1789, which made provision for the compulsion of
attendance of witnesses in the federal courts. 1 Stat. 73, 88 (1789).
See also Lilienthal, The Power of Governmental Agencies to Compel
Testimony, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 694-695 (1926); 8 Wigmore, Evidence,
ยงยง 2190-2193 (McNaughton rev., 1961).
2 For a listing of Federal Witness Immunity Acts see Comment,
72 Yale L. J. 1568, 1611-1612; the state acts may be found in 8
Wigmore, Evidence, ยง 2281, n. 11 (McNaughton rev., 1961).

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

95

WHrrE, J., concurring.

tortion, gambling, consumer frauds, liquor violations,
commercial larceny, and various forms of racketeering.
This Court, in dealing with federal immunity acts, has
on numerous occasions characterized such statutes as
absolutely essential to the enforcement of various federal
regulatory acts. In Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, the
case in which the Court first upheld a congressional immunity act over objection that the witness' right to
remain silent was inviolate, the Court said: "[If] witnesses standing in Brown's position were at liberty to set
up an immunity from testifying, the enforcement of the
Interstate Commerce law or other analogous acts, wherein
it is for the interest of both parties to conceal their misdoings, would become impossible." 161 U. S. 591, at 610.
Again in Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.43, the Court noted
the highly significant role played by immunity acts in the
enforcement of federal legislation:
"As the combination or conspiracies provided against
by the Sherman Anti Trust Act can ordinarily be
proved only by the testimony of parties thereto, in
the person of their agents or employ6s, the privilege
claimed would practically nullify the whole act of
Congress. Of what use would it be for the legislature to declare these combinations unlawful if the
judicial power may close the door of access to every
available source of information upon the subject?"
Id., at 70.
And only recently the Court declared that immunity
statutes have "become part of our constitutional fabric . . . included '. . . in virtually all of the major regulatory enactments of the Federal Government,' "and "the
States . . . have passed numerous statutes compelling
testimony in exchange for immunity in the form either
of complete amnesty or of prohibition of the use' of the
compelled testimony." Ullmann v. United States, 350
U. S.422, 438.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHITE,

J., concurring.

378 U. S.

These state statutes play at least an equally important
role in compelling testimony necessary for enforcement
of state criminal laws. After all, the States still bear
primary responsibility in this country for the administration of the criminal law; most crimes, particularly those
for which immunity acts have proved most useful and
necessary, are matters of local concern; federal preemption of areas of crime control traditionally reserved
to the States has been relatively unknown and. this area
has been said to be at the core of the continuing viability
of the States in our federal system. See Abbate v.
United States, 359 U. S. 187, 195; Screws v. United
States, 325 U. S. 91, 109; United States v. Cruikshank,
92 U. S. 542, 553-554; United States v. Ah Hung, 243 F.
762 (D. C. E. D. N. Y.). Cf. 18 U. S. C. ยง 5001, 18
U. S. C. ยง 659.3
3 See also Rutkin v. United States, 343 U. S. 130, 139-147 (BLACK,
J., dissenting).
The Senate Crime Committee stated in its third interim report:
"Any program for controlling organized crime must take into
account the fundamental nature of our governmental system. The
enforcement of the criminal law is primarily a State and local responsibility." S. Rep. No. 307, 82d Cong., 1st Sess., 5 (1951).
Attorney General Mitchell commented:
"Experience has shown that when Congress enacts criminal legislation of this type [dealing with local crime] the tendency is for the
State authorities to cease their efforts toward punishing the offenders
and to leave it to the Federal authorities and the Federal Courts.
That has been the experience under the Dyer Act." 72 Cong. Rec.
6214 (1930).
National enactments which touch upon these areas are not designed
directly to suppress activities illegal under state law but to assist
state enforcement agencies in the administration of their own statutes.
See Int. Rev. Code of 1954, ยงยง 4701-4707, 4711-4716 (narcotics tax);
Int. Rev. Code of 1954, ยงยง 4401-4404, 4411-4413, 4421-4423 (wagering tax). See generally, Schwartz, Federal Criminal Jurisdiction and
Prosecutors' Discretion, 13 Law and Contemp. Prob. 64, 83-86
(1948); Comment, 72 Yale L. J. 108, 140-142.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

WHiTE, J.,

97

concurring.

Whenever access to important testimony is barred by
possible state prosecution, the State can, at its option,
remove the impediment by a grant of immunity; but if
the witness is faced with prosecution by the Federal
Government, the State is wholly powerless to extend
immunity from prosecution under federal law in order to
compel the testimony. Almost invariably answers incriminating under state law can be claimed to be incriminating under federal law. Given the extensive sweep
of a host of federal statutes, such as the income tax laws,
securities regulation, laws regulating use of the mails and
other communication media for an illegal purpose, and
regulating fraudulent trade practices, and given the very
limited discretion, if any, in the trial judge to scrutinize
the witness' claim of privilege, Malloy v. Hogan, supra,
investigations conducted by the State into matters- of
corruption and misconduct will obviously be thwarted if
immunity from prosecution under federal law was a constitutionally required condition to testimonial compulsion in state proceedings. Wherever the witness, for reasons known only to him, wished not to respond to orderly
inquiry, the flow of information to the State would be
wholly impeded. Every witness would be free to block
vitally important state proceedings.
It is not without significance that there were two
ostensibly inconsistent lines of cases in this Court regarding the external reach of the privileges in respect to the
laws of another jurisdiction. In the cases involving refusals to answer questions in a federal grand jury or discovery proceedings on the ground of incrimination under
state law, absent any immunity statute, the Court suggested that the Fifth Amendment privilege protected such
answers, United States v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin,200 U. S. 186, while in the cases involving
refusals to answer after immunity was conferred, the
Court indicated that immunity in regard to a prosecution

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHITE, J., concurring.

378 U. S.

in the jurisdiction conducting the inquiry satisfied the
privilege. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; Jack v.
Kansas, 199 U. S. 372; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43. Cf.
United States v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141. The decision
in Ballmann that a witness in a federal grand jury proceeding could not be compelled to make disclosures incriminating under very similar federal and state criminal
statutes was announced by members of the same Court
and within a very short time of the decisions in Jack and
Hale, holding that immunity under the laws of one sovereign was sufficient. The basis for these latter holdings,
as well as Knapp v. Schweitzer, 357 U. S. 371, upholding a
state contempt conviction for a refusal to answer after a
grant of state immunity, was not a niggardly view of the
privilege against self-incrimination but "the historic distribution of power as between Nation and States in our
federal system." 357 U. S. 371, at 375. As the concurring and dissenting members of the Court in Knapp
pointed out, the dilemma posed to our federal system by
federally incriminating testimony compelled in a state
proceeding was not really necessary but for the prior decision in Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, which
upheld the Federal Government's use of incriminatory
testimony compelled in a state proceeding. Although
Feldman was questioned, no one suggested in Knapp that
the solution to the problem lay in forbidding the State to
ask questions incriminating under federal law.
To answer that the underlying policy of the privilege
subordinates the law enforcement function to the privilege of an individual will not do. For where there is
only one government involved, be it state or federal, not
only is the danger of prosecution more imminent and indeed the likely purpose of the investigation to facilitate
prosecution and conviction, but that authority has the
choice of exchanging immunity for the needed testimony.
To transform possible federal prosecution into a source of

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.

99

WHITE, J., concurring.

52

absolute protected silence on the part of a state witness
would leave no such choice to the States. Only the Federal Government would retain such an option.
Nor will it do to say that the Congress could reinstate
state power by authorizing state officials to confer absolute immunity from federal prosecutions. Congress has
established highly complicated procedures, requiring the
approval of the Attorney General, before a limited group
of federal officials may grant immunity from federal
prosecutions. E.g., 18 U. S. C. ยง 3486,1 18 U. S. C. ยง 1406.
The decision to grant immunity is based upon the importance of the testimony to federal law enforcement
interest, a matter within the competence of federal
officials to assay. These procedures would create insurmountable obstacles if the requests for approval were to
come from innumerable local officials of the 50 States.
Obviously federal officials could not properly evaluate the
extent of the State's need for the testimony on a case-bycase basis. Further, the scope of the immunity conferred
wholly depends on the testimony given, a matter of con4 The debates on the bill leading to the statute which granted a congressional committee the power to confer immunity well reveal the
concern over immunization from federal prosecution without the
express approval of the Attorney General in each case. 99 Cong. Rec.
4737-4740, 8342-8343; H. R. Rep. No. 2606, 83d Cong., 2d Sess.
(1954). See Brownell, Immunity From Prosecution Versus Privilege
Against Self-Incrimination, 28 Tul. L. Rev. 1 (1953):
"[I]f any measure is to be enacted permitting the granting of
immunity to witnesses before either House of Congress, or its committees, it should vest the Attorney General, or the Attorney General
acting with the concurrence of appropriate members of Congress, with
the authority to grant such immunity, and if the testimony is sought
for a court or grand jury that the Attorney General alone be authorized to grant the immunity." (Remarks of Attorney General
Brownell.) Id., at 19.
Congress adopted this view in recent immunity statutes. 18
U. S. C. ยง 3486; 18 U. S. C. ยง 1406. See also Comment, 72 Yale
L. J. 1568, 1598-1610 (1963).
736-666 0-65-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHITE, J., concurring.

378 U. S.

siderable difficulty to determine after, no less than before,
the question is answered, the time when federal approval
would be necessary, Heike v. United States, 227 U. S.
131; Lumber Products Assn. v. United States, 144 F. 2d
546 (C. A. 9th Cir.), and a matter whose determination
requires intimate familiarity with both the nature and
details of the investigation and the background of the
witness. Finally, it is very doubtful that Congress would,
if it had the power to, authorize one State to confer immunity on persons subject to prosecution under the criminal
laws of another State.
II.
Neither the conflict between state and federal interests
nor the consequent enthronement of federal agencies as
the only law enforcement authorities with effective power
to compel testimony is necessary to give full effect to a
privilege against self-incrimination whose external reach
embraces federal as well as state law. The approach
need not and, in light of the above considerations, should
not be in terms of the State's power to compel the testimony rather than the use to which such testimony can
be put. It is unquestioned that an immunity statute, to
be valid, must be coextensive with the privilege which it
displaces, but it need not be broader. Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591;
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43. If the compelled incriminating testimony in a state proceeding cannot be put to
any use whatsoever by federal officials, quite obviously
the witness' privilege against self-incrimination is not
infringed. For the privilege does not convey an absolute right to remain silent. It protects a witness from
being compelled to furnish evidence that could result in
his being subjected to a criminal sanction, Hoffman v.
United States, 341 U. S. 479; Mason v. United States, 244
U. S. 362, if, but only if, after the disclosure the witness
will be in greater danger of prosecution and conviction.

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

101

WaiTE, J., concurring.

Rogers v. United States, 340 U. S. 367; United States v.
Gernie, 252 F. 2d 664 (C. A. 2d Cir.). When federal
officials are barred not only from introducing the testimony into evidence in a federal prosecution but also from
introducing any evidence derived from such testimony,
the disclosure has in no way contributed to the danger or
likelihood of a federal prosecution. This approach secures the protections of the privilege against self-incrimination for all defendants without impairing local lawenforcement and investigatory activities. It, of course,
forecloses the use of state-compelled testimony in any
manner by federal prosecutors, but the privilege in my
view commands that the Federal Government should
not have the benefit of compelled incriminatory testimony. Both the Federal Government and the witness
are in exactly the same position as if the witness had
remained silent.5 And state immunity statutes remain
constitutional and state law enforcement agencies viable.
It is argued that a rule only forbidding use of compelled
testimony does not afford absolute protection against the
possibility of a federal prosecution based in part on the
compelled testimony. It is said that absent any deliberate attempt by federal officers to utilize the testimony
the very identification and testimony of the witness in
the state proceedings, perhaps in the newspapers, may
5 Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, allowed the use of testimony compelled in exchange for a grant of state immunity to secure
a conviction for a federal offense. I think the Court in Feldman erred
in its assumption that an effective exclusionary rule would allow the
States to determine on the basis of local policy which offenders should
be immune from federal prosecution. The Federal Government can
prosecute and convict persons who have received immunity for testimony in a state investigation. But it must do so without the
assistance of the compelled incriminatory testimony.
That case also relied on the doctrine since repudiated in Elkins v.
United States, 364 U. S. 206, that evidence illegally seized by state
officials is admissible in federal courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHiTE,

J., concurring.

378 U. S.

increase the possibility of a federal prosecution and alternatively that the defendant may not be able to prove that
evidence was intentionally and unlawfully derived from
his compelled testimony. These are fanciful considerations, hardly sufficient as a basis for a constitutional adjudication working a substantial reallocation of power
between state and national governments.
In the absence of any misconduct or collusion by federal officers, whatever increase there is, if any, in the
likelihood of federal prosecution following the witness'
appearance before a state grand jury or agency results
from the inferences drawn from the invocation of the
privilege to specific questions on the ground that they
are incriminating under federal law and not from the fact
the witness has testified in what is frequently an in camera
proceeding under a grant of immunity. Whether in
camera or not, the testimony itself is hardly reported in
newspapers and the transcripts and records of the state
proceedings are not part of the files of the Federal Government. Access and use require misconduct and collusion, a matter quite susceptible of proof. But this is
quibbling, since the very fact that a witness is called in
a state crime investigation is likely to be based upon
knowledge, or at least a suspicion based on some information, that the witness is implicated in, illegal activities,
which knowledge and information are probably available
to federal authorities.
The danger that a defendant may not be able to establish that other evidence was obtained through the unlawful use by federal officials of inadmissible compelled testimony is insubstantial. The privilege protects against real
dangers, not remote and speculative possibilities. Brown
v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 599-600; Heike v. UnitedStates,
227 U. S. 131; Mason v. United States, 244 U. S. 362.
First, one might just as well argue that the Constitution
requires absolute immunity from prosecution wherever

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

103

WHITE, J., concurring.

the Government has obtained an inadmissible confession
or other evidence through an illegal search and seizure,
an illegal wiretap, illegal detention, and coercion. A coerced confession is as revealing of leads as testimony given
in exchange for immunity and indeed is excluded in part
because it is compelled incrimination in violation of the
privilege. Malloy v. Hogan, ante, pp. 7-8; Spano v.
New York, 360 U. S. 315; Bram v. United States, 168
U. S. 532. In all these situations a defendant must establish that testimony or other evidence is a fruit of the
unlawfully obtained evidence, Nardone v. United States,
308 U. S. 338; Wilson v. United States, 218 F. 2d 754
(C. A. 10th Cir.); Lotto v. United States, 157 F. 2d
623 (C. A. 8th Cir.), which proposition would seem a
fortiori true where the Government has not engaged in
illegal or unconstitutional conduct and where the inadmissible testimony is obtained by a government other
than the one bringing the prosecution and for a purpose
unrelated to the prosecution. Second, there are no real
proof problems in this situation. As in the analogous
search and seizure and wiretap cases-where the burden
of proof is on the Government once the defendant establishes the unlawful search or wiretap, United States v.
Coplon, 185 F. 2d 629 (C. A. 2d Cir.); United States v.
Goldstein, 120 F. 2d 485, 488 (C. A. 2d Cir.), aff'd, 316
U. S. 114-once a defendant demonstrates that he has
testified in a state proceeding in exchange for immunity
to matters related to the federal prosecution, the Government can be put to show that its evidence is not
tainted by establishing that it had an independent,
legitimate source for the disputed evidence. Since the
Government has the relevant information within its
control, valid prosecutions need not be sacrificed and
infringement of the privilege through use of compelled
testimony, direct or indirect, need not be tolerated. It
is carrying a premise of perjury and judicial incom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHITE,

J., concurring.

378 U. S.

petence to excess to believe that this procedure poses
any hazards to the rights of an accused. Third, greater
requirements or difficulties of proof by a defendant
inhere in the rule of absolute immunity. When a witness testifies under the auspices of an immunity act,
the immunity he gets does not secure him from indictment or conviction. Heike v. United States, 217 U. S.
423. The witness must plead and prove, as an affirmative defense, that he has received immunity and that the
instant prosecution is on account of a matter testified to
in exchange for immunity, Heike v. United States, 227
U. S. 131, which may pose considerable difficulties where
the relationship between the testimony and the prosecution is not obvious or where the immunity is acquired
as a result of testimony before a grand jury or in an
in camera administrative proceeding. See Edwards v.
United States, 312 U. S. 473; 131 F. 2d 198 (C. A. 10th
Cir.) (retrial), certiorari denied, 317 U. S. 689; United
States v. Lumber Products Assn., 42 F. Supp. 910 (D. C.
N. D. Cal.), rev'd, sub nom. Ryan v. United States, 128
F. 2d 551 (C. A. 9th Cir.); Lumber Products Assn. v.
United States (plea of immunity finally upheld after
trial), 144 F. 2d 546 (C. A. 9th Cir.). Cf. Pandolfo v.
Biddle, 8 F. 2d 142 (C. A. 8th Cir.).
Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, does not require that absolute immunity from state prosecution be
conferred on a federal witness and the Court has declined
on many occasions to so read it, the limitation of the
privilege to one sovereign rationale aside, Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591; Adams v. Maryland, 347 U. S.
179; Ullmann v. United States, 350 U. S.422; Reina v.
United States, 364 U. S. 507.V It does not therefore re6

As MR.JUSTIcE BLACK stated for the Court in Adams v. Maryland, a case dealing with the use of federally compelled testimony in
a state proceeding "[A] witness does not need any statute to protect
him from the use of self-incriminating testimony he is compelled to

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

105

WHIm, J., concurring.

quire that absolute immunity from federal prosecution be
conferred on a state witness. Counselman, an officer of
an interstate railroad, refused to reveal whether he engaged in discriminatory rate practices, a criminal offense,
under the Interstate Commerce Act, before a federal
grand jury investigating specific violations of that Act.
The Court established for the first time that the coverage
of the privilege extended to not only a confession of the
offense but also disclosures leading to discovery of incriminating evidence, a matter of considerable doubt at the
time. See United States v. Brown, 1 Saw. 531, 536,
Fed. Cas. No. 14,671; United States v. McCarthy, 18 F.
87, 89 (C. C. S. D. N. Y.); In re Counselman, 44 F. 268
(C. C. N. D. Ill.). It then invalidated the first irmpunity statute to come before it because "[the statute]
could not, and would not, prevent the use of his testimony
to search out other testimony to be used in evidence
against him or his property, in a criminal proceeding ....
It could not prevent the obtaining and the use of witnesses and evidence which should be attributable directly
to the testimony he might give under compulsion, and on
give over his objection. The Fifth Amendment takes care of that
without a statute." 347 U. S., at 181.
Neither Congress nor the States have read Counselman to mean
that the Constitution requires absolute immunity from prosecution.
There are numerous statutes providing for immunity from use, not
prosecution, in exchange for incriminatory testimony. B. g., 30 Stat.
548 (1898), 11 U. S. C. ยง 25; 18 U. S. C. ยง 1406; 49 U. S. C. ยง 9; 18
U. S. C. ยง 3486. Ala. Code, Tit. 9, ยง 39; Ala. Code, Tit. 29, ยง 171;
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann., ยง 13-384; Ark. Const., Art. III, ยง 9; Cal.
Const., Art. 4, ยง 35; Colo. Rev. Stat., ยง 40-8-8; id., ยง 49-17-8; Conn.
Gen. Stat. (1958 rev.), ยง 12-2 and ยง 12-53; Fla. Stat. Ann., ยง 55.59
and ยง 350.60; Idaho Code Ann., ยง 48-308 (Supp. 1963); Ill. Ann.
Stat., c. 1002, ยง 4; Ky. Rev. Stat., ยง 124.330; Mich. Stat. Ann.,
ยง 7A11 (17) ; N. J. Rev. Stat., ยง 2A:93-9.
The effect of the rule petitioners urge would be to hold the above
and numerous other statutes barring use but not prosecution
unconstitutional.

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
WHiTE,

J., concurring.

378 U. S.

which he might be convicted, when otherwise, and if he
had refused to answer, he could not possibly have been
convicted." 142 U. S. 547, at 564. In a dictum indicating that some immunity statutes are valid, the Court
added that "a statutory enactment, to be valid, must
afford absolute immunity against future prosecution for
the offence to which the question relates." Id., at 586.
Whatever may be the validity of this dictum where the
witness is being investigated by a grand jury for the purpose of indictment for a particular offense and where the
grand jury proceedings are conducted by the same government attempting to obtain a conviction for the
offense-the facts of Counselman-it clearly has no validity, and by its own terms, no applicability, where the
inquiry does not concern any federal offense, no less a
particular one, and the government seeking the testimony
has no purpose or authority to prosecute for federal
crimes.
The Constitution does not require that immunity go
so far as to protect against all prosecutions to which the
testimony relates, including prosecutions of another government, whether or not there is any causal connection
between the disclosure and the prosecution or evidence
offered at trial. In my view it is possible for a federal
prosecution to be based on untainted evidence after a
grant of federal immunity in exchange for testimony in
a federal criminal investigation. Likewise it is possible
that information gathered by a state government which
has an important but wholly separate purpose in conducting the investigation and no interest in any federal
prosecution will not in any manner be used in subsequent
federal proceedings, at least "while this Court sits" to
review invalid convictions. Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox,
277 U. S. 218, at 223 (Holmes, J., dissenting). It is precisely this possibility of a prosecution based on untainted
evidence that we must recognize. For if it is meaningful

MURPHY v. WATERFRONT COMM'N.
52

WHiTE,

107

J., concurring.

to say that the Federal Government may not use compelled testimony to convict a witness of a federal crime,
then, of course, the Constitution permits the State to
compel such testimony.
"The real evil aimed at by the Fifth Amendment's flat
prohibition against the compulsion of self-incriminatory
testimony was that thought to inhere in using a man's
compelled testimony to punish him." Feldman v. United
States, 322 U. S. 487, 500 (BLACK, J., dissenting). I believe the State may compel testimony incriminating
under federal law, but the Federal Government may not
use such testimony or its fruits in a federal criminal
proceeding. Immunity must be as broad as, but not
harmfully and wastefully broader than, the privilege
against self-incrimination.

