OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

review its judgment and give a different interpretation
of that law. That case and this have many features of
resemblance. The suit and decree pleaded in that case
was a suit and decree in the state court. The suit at bar
was commenced in the state court, and the decree pleaded
and which is sought to be set aside was rendered in the
same court. It was subject, therefore, to the local procedure and local laws. If we should assert a power of
review in such case we could exercise like power in all
cases where Federal questions are set up and substitute
our judgment for the judgment of the state courts as to
the state laws.
We may say, in conclusion, that there are many cases
illustrating the power of the States over the pleadings and
practice in their courts and the right to prescribe within
what time and upon what conditions suits can be commenced and maintained. Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co.
v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408; Brinkmeier v. Missouri Pacific
Railway Co., 224 U. S. 268.
The motion to dismiss must be, and it is, granted.
Dismissed.

CHICAGO

DOCK

AND

CANAL

COMPANY

v.

FRALEY, AS ADMINISTRATRIX OF CLAFFY.
LRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 286.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Poliee legislation cannot be judged by abstract or theoretical comparisons, but it must be presumed to have been induced by actual
experience. Even if disputable or crude it may not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment.
One who is not discriminated against cannot attack a police statute of
the State because it does not go farther; and if what it enjoins of

CHICAGO DOCK CO. v. FRALEY.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

one it enjoins of all others in the same class, that person cannot complain on account of matters of which neither he not any of his class
are enjoined.
The Constitution of the United States does not require that all state
laws shall be perfect, nor that the entire field of proper legislation
shall be covered by a single enactment. Rosenthal v. New York, 226
U. S. 260.
There may be different degrees of danger in construction of buildings
and a classification based upon such degree as the legislature of the
State determines may be proper, and so that the classificationdoes
not violate the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mutual Loan Co. v. Martel, 222 U. S. 225.
The statute of Illinois providing for protecting elevating and hoisting
machinery in buildings under construction is not unconstitutional
as denying equal protection of the law; nor is the classification as to
different methods of protecting different classes of buildings, both as
to location in cities and villages and as to nature of use of buildings,
based on too fine and minute distinctions. It is within the power
of the legislature to determine such distinctions if all in the same situation are treated alike.
Even if some provisions of a statute are unconstitutional, if they do not
affect plaintiff in error this court is not concerned with them and
cannot declare the whole statute unconstitutional as inseparable.
249 Illinois, 210, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
of provisions of an Illinois statute in regard to the protection of hoists and elevators in buildings under construction, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Mor-se Ives for plaintiff in error:
Section 7 of the act violates the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment because the classification
it seeks to make is according to minute rather than general
distinctions. Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 223
U. S. 1.
It does not bring within its purview all those who are
in substantially the same situation or circumstances. C.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

228 U. S.

M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Westby, 178 Fed. Rep. 619, 624,
and cases there collected; Lipman v. People, 175 Illinois,
101, 107.
In fact, as construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
the act does not protect any man at the place where he
works, but does protect some men at places where they
do not work.
According to that court's construction, the test is the
use of a particular hoistway in a particular manner, for
elevating materials to be used for a particular purpose.
The lifting of the same materials, elevated in the same
quantities in another hoistway, either in a different manner and for the same purpose or in the same manner but
for a different purpose is not condemned.
This classification is entirely unnatural and wholly
arbitrary, and therefore invalid. Nicoll v. Ames, 173 U. S.
509, 521; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
165; State v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. (Mo.), 125 S. W. Rep.
28, 30, 31; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 541,
564, and cases cited supra.
But even if § 7 be held to be constitutional, other sections
of the act are unconstitutional and the whole legislative
scheme must fall, and § 7 cannot stand by itself. Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565; Matthews v.
People, 202 Illinois, 389, 406; Chicago v. Burke, 226
Illinois, 191, 203.
Mr. James C. McShane, for defendant in error, submitted:
The statute in question is remedial in its nature and
should not be strictly construed. Johnson v. So. Pac. R.
Co., 196 U. S. 1.
While the act is designed for the protection and safety
of persons, in and about the construction, repairing, alteration, or removal of baildings, bridges, viaducts, and
other structures, still it is not necessary that the act should

CHICAGO DOCK CO. v. FRALEY.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

cover the entire field of dangers to which such persons are
exposed. The question here is one of power of the legislature to enact legislation of this class, and this court
should not be concerned with mere matters of policy or
wisdom of such legislation. Rosenthal v. New York, 226
U. S. 260; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549
(569).
Employers' liability laws, relating to railroads, and
even as covering all employ~s of railroads, Whether engaged in hazardous occupations or not, have been held
constitutional by this court, and the classifications therein
made, proper. Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36; Mobile &c. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35,
44; Aluminum Co. v. Ramsey, 222 U. S. 251, 256; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541, 546; Mondou v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 223 U. S. 1.
Even if § 7 be held to apply only to hoists and elevators
within a building, or even if subject to other criticisms
made by counsel for plaintiff in error, such discriminations
have a reasonable basis and are, therefore, not contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 65; American Sugar Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89; CentralLumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S.
157; Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452.
The provisions of § 6, even if held to be limited to such
buildings within cities as are mentioned in this section,
are not, on that account, unreasonable. Chicago v. Sturgis,
222 U. S. 313.
But if this section of the act should be held unconstitutional, if so limited to buildings in cities, then, in order
to save the constitutionality of the section, it would be
proper to construe the section as not so limited.
Sections 2 and 3 of the act are not unconstitutional because they except from its provisions "a private house
used exclusively as a private residence." Arms v. Ayer,
192 Illinois, 601.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Even if some of the sections of the act, other than § 7,

should be held unconstitutional, yet if §7 is constitutional,
it is separable from the others, and the others are so
separated from the act as a whole, that §7, and the act,
as a whole, are valid. C., B. & Q.R. R. Co. v. Jones, 149
Illinois, 387.
MR.
court.

JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

This writ of error is directed to review a judgment of

the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois, affirming a
judgment in an action brought by Gertrude V. Claffy,
against plaintiff in error for the violation of § 7, of a
statute of the State entitled "An act providing for the
protection and safety of persons in and about the construction, repairing, alteration or removal of buildings,
bridges, viaducts and other structures, and to provide for

the enforcement thereof." Laws of 1907, p. 312.
Section 7 reads as follows:
"If elevating machines or hoisting apparatus are used
within a building in the course of construction for the

purpose of lifting materials to be used in such construction, the contractors or owners shall cause the shafts
or openings in each floor to be inclosed or fenced in on
all sides by a substantial barrier or railing at least eight
feet in height.
"
Section 9 gives a right of action for a wilful violation of
or failure to comply with any provisions of the act to the
person injured or, in case of loss of life, to his widow,
lineal heirs, adopted children or persons dependent upon
him, for damages so sustained.
Gertrude V. Claffy, widow of Charles F. Claffy, brought
suit against plaintiff in error and one Henry Erickson for
causing the death of her husband through violation of the
act. The defendants filed separate demurrers to the

CHICAGO DOCK CO. v. FRALEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

declaration, which were overruled. An additional count
was filed by the plaintiff in the action which set out with
detail the cause of action. The defendants answered and,
upon a trial to a jury, a verdict of $10,000 was returned
against defendants. A new trial was granted as to Erickson, and $2500 of the amount found remitted and a judgment entered against plaintiff in error here for the sum
of $7500. It was sustained by the Supreme Court of the'
State. Subsequently, Gertrude V. Claffy having died, her
administratrix, defendant in error here, was substituted
as appellee in the Supreme Court.
The facts are these: Plaintiff in error was the owner of a
large building in the course of construction in Chicago, and
Erickson was the contractor for its erection. The deceased was employed by the plumbing contractor, and, in
the course of his employment, was working in the building.
In the building there was an elevator or hoist, operated
through a shaft or opening, for the purpose of lifting
materials to be used in the construction of the building.
It was not inclosed or fenced in as required by § 7 of the
act. Deceased was at work upon a pipe immediately
alongside of the shaft and accidentally fell into and down
through it a distance of six stories.
The contention of plaintiff in error is here, as it was in
the state courts, that §§ 7 and 9 of the act violate the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States in that they deny to him the equal protection of
the laws. He specifies as grounds of his contention that
the classification of the statute is based upon minute
rather than general distinctions, that it does not bring
within its purview all of those who are in substantially the
same situation and circumstances in that it distinguishes
between openings required for hoisting or lowering materials to be used in construction and stairways and elevator
shafts. Section 7, counsel says, "requires that but one of
these classes be barricaded, namely, those openings used

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

for hoisting materials to be used in construction." And,
asserting the purpose of the act to be to protect those
lawfully on the premises against danger from falling
materials, he adds, "that in a case like this use cannot be
made the test. Danger is the thing," and hence concludes
that the classification of the statute, not having relation to
its purpose, is arbitrary.
That danger is the test may be conceded, but there may
be degrees of it, and a difference in degree may justify
classification. Mutual Loan Co. v. Martel, 222 U. S.225,
236. Who is to judge of the danger, whether absolutely
considered or comparatively considered? Is it a matter of
belief or proof? If of belief, we should be very reluctant to
oppose ours to that of the legislature of the State, informed
no doubt by experience of conditions and fortified by
presumptions of legality and confirmed, besides, by the
opinion of the Supreme Court of the State. Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco, 216 U. S.358, 365; Adams v.
City of Milwaukee, ante, p. 572. If of proof, there is none
in the record. There are assertions by counsel, and considering alone the openings necessary for hoisting machinery and the openings for stairs and other openings, an
employ6 or materials can be imagined as falling through
one of them with the same ease as he or the materials can
through the others. But other things must be taken into
account. The setting of the openings must be considered,
the varying relations of the employs to them, and other
circumstances. The legislation cannot be judged by
abstract or theoretical comparisons. Itmust be presumed
that it was induced by aetual experience, and New York, it
is said, has been induced by a like experience to enact like
legislation. If it be granted that the legislative judgment
be disputable or crude, it is notwithstanding not subject to judicial review. We have said many times that
the crudities or even the injustice of state laws are not
redressed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

CHICAGO DOCK CO. v. FRALEY.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The law may not be the best that can be drawn nor
accurately adapted to all of the conditions to which it was
addressed. It may be that it would have been more
complete if it had gone farther and recognized and provided against the danger that all uninclosed openings in a
building might cause, and should not have distinguished
between hoists inside of a building and those outside; but
we do not see how plaintiff in error is concerned with the
omissions. It is not discriminated against. All in its
situation are treated alike. What the statute enjoins it
enjoins not only of plaintiff in error but of all similarly
situated. What it does not enjoin plaintiff in error cannot
complain of. "The Constitution does not require that
all state laws shall be perfect, nor that the entire field of
proper legislation shall be covered by a single enactment."
Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271.
Counsel attacks other sections of the statute "to show,"
as he says, that "the whole scheme of the statute is based
upon those 'minute distinctions' condemned in the
Mondou and Ellis Cases (223 U. S. 1; 165 U. S. 150) and,
secondly, to demonstrate, if we can, that, 9s we urged in
the state court, so much of the act is unconstitutional that
all must fall." The state court did not yield to the contention nor its asserted consequences. Nor can we yield
to it. Its foundation is based on the distinction made
between buildings in cities and buildings in villages (§ 6);
the distinction between houses exclusively for private
residences and other constructions as to the strength of the
s upports for joists (§§ 2 and 3); the distinction between the
protection required for men working upon swinging and
stationary scaffolds used in the construction, alteration,
repairing, removing, cleaning or painting of buildings and
that given to advertising agents. (Sections 1 and 5.)
Sections 2 and 3 must fall, it is contended, because of the
exception of private residences; § 6, because of its.limitations to cities; §§ 1 and 5, because they discriminate be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

tween the indicated classes. It is enough to say of these
contentions-(1) of the asserted discrimination in §§ 1
and 5, plaintiff in error cannot complain and, so far as it is
made a criticism of the statute, we are not concerned with
it; (2) of the distinction made by the other sections, they
are within the power of classification which the legislature
possesses.
Judgment affirmed.

BROOKS v. CENTRAL SAINTE JEANNE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 283.

Submitted May 2, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Whether one is in general service of another or not, if he is rendering
the latter a service even as a volunteer and comes under his orders,
he becomes his servant, and fellow-servant of the other employ6s.
The servant is not only such while actually at work on the service for
which he is specially employed, but also during its progress while
absent from the location for tho purpose of, and in connection with,
such work.
One going in the master's conveyance on the master's business, held,
in this case, to be a fellow-servant of the driver of the conveyance.
In view of the adoption by Porto Rico in substantially the same form,
of the English Employers' Liability Act which presupposes the
existence of the common-law rule as to fellow-servants, and the
provisions of that act in regard to exceptions in specific instances, and
in the absence of any authorities to the contrary, held that the law

in Porto Rico in regard to the fellow-servant defense does not differ
from the common law.
A single expression in the testimony that the driver of an automobile
was accustomed to drink while driving the machine, there being
other testimony importing usual sobriety, does not justify a finding
of negligence on the part of the employer for employing a servant
who was incompetent as an excessive drinker.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 281, affirmed.

