CHICAGO, B. & Q. R. R. CO. v. KYLE.
228 U. S.

Counsel for Defendants in Error.

obedience to the statute, the court said it could be compensated by extra charge.
The contention is made that the statute impairs the
obligation of the contracts which existed between plaintiff
in error and defendant in error; but that contention was
not made in the court below and cannot therefore be made
here. Besides, there is no evidence of the contracts in
the record. Contracts were pleaded and there appears
to have been some attempt to introduce them in evidence,
but unsuccessfully, and they were stricken from the bill of
exceptions. But, assuming the contracts may be considered on this record, a complete answer to the contention
that the statute impairs their obligation is, they were
made subsequently. to the statute and, therefore, are
subject to it.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY v. KYLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 194.

Argued March 18, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Nebraska Live Stock Speed Law sustained on authority of Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. Cram, ante, p. 70.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
Nebraska freight speed law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Halleck F. Rose, with whom Mr. James E. Kelby
and Mr. John F. Stout were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. E. J. Clements, with whom Mr. S. H. Cowan was on
the brief, for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U: S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case also involves the validity of the statute of
Nebraska which was considered in Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy RailroadCo. v. Cram, No. 193, and was submitted
at the same time with that case.
The cause of action was based on the ground of prolongation in the transportation beyond the statutory
schedule of five cars of cattle from Palmer, Nebraska, to
South Omaha, in the same State, which were delivered to
the railroad September 6, 1905. It was alleged that the
time of transportation was for a period of nine hours
"over the time allowed by law in that behalf," and that
by failure to transport the cattle "within a reasonable
time and within the time allowed by law for thAt purpose,"
the plaintiff was damaged in the sum of $450, which was
the statutory rate of $10 per hour.
The ai.swer filed by the railroad company to the petition
alleged that the shipment was made pursuant to a contract in writing and that the cattle were transported and
delivered as contracted for without any fault or negligence
on its part. The answer also denied the allegations of the
petition. A replication was filed to the answer.
The case was tried to a jury, which rendered a verdict
for Kyle, upon which judgment was entered. It was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State for the reasons
stated by the court in Cram's Case.
The case was submitted to the jury upon the evidence
of the plaintiff, the railroad company offering no testimony. There was no proof that there was actual injury
or damage done to the shipper by the alleged delay in
transportation. Th3 statute was the sole basis of the claim
in the suit. The court instructed Lhe jury that if the time
exceeded that provided for by the statute under the conditions expressed by the statute, they should find for the

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC GO.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

complainant; otherwise, for the defendant. The railroad
company requested explicit instructions against the recovery by the plaintiff of any sum.
The contentions are the same as in Cram's Case, and

upon the authority of its decision the judgment in this
-ase is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. PACIFIC AND
ARCTIC RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY, PACIFIC COAST STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
ALASKA STEAMSHIP COMPANY, CANADIAN
PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
FOR ALASKA, DIVISION NO. 1.
No. 697.

Argued February 26, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

While'under the Interstate Commerce Act a carrier may. select its
through route conneciions, agreements for such connections may
constitute violations of the Anti-trust Act if made not from natural
trade reasons or on account of efficiency, but as a combination and
conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade and for the purpose of
obtaining a monopoly of traffic by refusing to establish routes with
independent connecting carriers.
In. reviewing the decision of the lower'court sustaining a demurrer to
an indictment charging a combination in violation of the Anti-trust
Act, this court is not called upon to consider what the elements of
the plan may be independently, or whether there is or is not a standard of reasonableness which juries may apply, If a criminal violation of the act is charged, the criminal courts have cognizance of it
with power of decision in regard thereto.
A combination made in the United States between earrieis to monopolize certain' transportation partly within and partly without the
United States is within the prohibition of the Anti-trust Act, and

