EX PARTE DANTE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF DANTE, COLLECTOR OF THE ESTATE OF HUTCHINS.
IN MANDAMUS.

No. 15.

Argued April 14, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

The rules of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia were
promulgated in pursuance of powers conferred upon the justices of
that court by ยง 6 of the act of February 9, 1893, creating it.
Rule 10 providing that there shall be no review by the Court of Appeals
of any order, judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the District unless the appeal be taken within twenty days after the same
is made, is the only rule governing such appeals, and there is no
provision extending the time for taking or perfecting an appeal in
the event of death of a party.
Rule 10 has been interpreted to include the perfecting of an appeal by
filing the bond.

THE facts, which involve the construction of Rule 10 of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia prescribing the time within which appeals from the Supreme Court
of the District must be taken, and the application of that
rule to appeals where the judgment debtor has died within
the prescribed period, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg,with whom Mr. ClarenceA.
Brandenburg and Mr. F. Walter Brandenburg were on the
brief, for pctitioner.
Mr. Wharton E. Lester and Mr. Michael J. Colbert for
respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.To a rule commanding the judges of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia to show cause why a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

certain action should not be reinstated on the docket of
the court and heard and decided upon its merits, return
was filed and hearing had on the issues raised. Before
passing upon those issues we set out the facts of the controversy.
On April 16, 1912, in an action pending in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, a verdict was returned
in favor of the plaintiff, India Bagby, against Stilson
Hutchins. After the filing of a motion for a new trial,
and in arrest of judgment, and on Sunday, April 21, 1912,
Hutchins died. On May 3, 1912, the trial court overruled the motions and entered judgment nunc pro tunc as
of the date of the verdict. The rules required the taking
of appeals to the Court of Appeals of the District within
twenty days from a judgment, and, although no representative of the estate had been appointed, the former
attorneys of Mr. Hutchins noted an appeal within the
time limited, styling themselves "attorneys for the defendant, and on behalf of the executors named in his last
will." Owing to a contest over the admission of such will
to probate, William J. Dante was appointed collector of
the estate on June 14, 1912, and soon afterwards was
authorized to enter his appearance in the Bagby case,
with authority to "take such steps as may be necessary to
prosecute an appeal from the judgment entered therein."
He then moved in the trial court to vacate and set aside
the judgment against Hutchins upon the ground that the
court was without power or authority in the premises,
"inasmuch as the cause abated upon the death of said
Stilson Hutchins; and upon the further ground that no one
representing said estate had been appointed at the time
of the hearing upon said motion or the entry of said judgment." On June 22, 1912, the trial court ordered the
action revived in the name of Dante, as collector in the
place and stead of Hutchins, but denied the motion to
vacate the judgment. The order concluded as follows:

EX PARTE DANTE.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The said William J. Dante, collector of the estate of
Stilson Hutchins, by his attorneys, in open court, notes
an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia," followed by a recital as to the penalty of the
bond for costs. The citation which issued, dated June 24,
1912, required the appellee "to show cause, if any there
be, why the judgment rendered against the said appellant
should not be corrected and why speedy justice should
not be done to the parties in that behalf." On June 25,
1912, a bill of exceptions was signed and made a part of
the record containing the substance of the evidence taken
at the trial in which judgment was entered against
Hutchins. In the Court of Appeals counsel for Bagby
moved to dismiss the appeal taken in the name of Hutchins
because "futile;" and to dismiss the appeal taken in the
name of collector Dante, on the ground that if it was from
the judgment, it was too late, and if from the order refusing to vacate the judgment, that order was not appealable. The hearing of the motion was postponed to the
merits. On January 6, 1913, however, after the cause had
been argued on the merits, the court below granted the
motion to dismiss the appeal of the collector, on the
ground that the order allowing the appeal was from the
decision on the motion to vacate the judgment and no
appeal lay from such an order. On the state of facts just
detailed, and the averment that the dismissal of his appeal
without consideration of the merits of the judgment
recovered by Bagby deprived the petitioner "of a substantial property right without due process of law," relief
by mandamus was prayed, and we allowed a rule to issue.
From the answer to the rule it appears that the death
of Hutchins was suggested to the trial court on April 23,
1912, and that on motion of the former attorneys of
Hutchins the motions in arrest of judgment and for a new
trial were continued to May 3 and on that day were
overruled and the judgment entered nunc pro tunc. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

also shown that from the organization of the Court of
Appeals, pursuant to the powers conferred upon the
justices of that court by ยง 6 of the act of Congress of
February 9, 1893, creating the court, there was promulgated a rule known as Rule 10, in the first section of which
it is provided as follows:
"No order, judgment, or decree of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, or of any justice thereof, shall be
reviewed by the Court of Appeals, unless the appeal shall
be taken within twenty days after the order, judgment,
or decree complained of shall have been made or pronounced."
This rule is still in force and has been interpreted to
include the perfecting of an appeal by filing bond, and is
the only rule governing the time within which appeals from
the Supreme Court of the District shall be taken or perfected; and there is no statute or rule which extends the
time for taking or perfecting an appeal in the event of the
death of a party to the cause. Under these circumstances
we are of opinion that whatever may be the scope of the
appeal noted by the collector, as the time for appealing
from the judgment had expired long prior to the making of
the order, the court did not err in dismissing the appeal.
The-rule, therefore, must be and it is discharged.
Rule discharged.

