ANDREWS v. PARTRIDGE.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

bankrupt's discharge is from all provable debts and claims
which existed on the day on which the petition for adjudication was filed. Zavelo v. Reeves, 227 U. S. 625, 630-1.
The schedule that the bankrupt is required to file, showing
the location and value of his property, must be filed with
his petition.
We think that the purpose of the law was to fix the line
of cleavage with reference to the condition of the bankrupt
estate as of the time at which the petition was filed and
that the property which vests in the trustee at the time of
adjudication is that which the bankrupt owned at the
time of the filing of the petition. And it is as of that date
that the surrender value of the insurance policies mentioned in § 70a should be ascertained. The subsequent
suicide of the bankrupt before the adjudication was an
unlooked-for circumstance which does not change the
result in the light of the construction which we give the
statute.
It follows that the judgment should be
Affirmed.

ANDREWS, EXECUTRIX, v. PARTRIDGE,.
TRUSTER,
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 496.

Argued March 13, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

Burlingham v. Crouse, ante, p. 459, and Everett v. Judson, ante, p. 474,
followed to effect that under § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act the trustee
is only entitled to the cash surrender value of insurance policies on
the life of the bankrupt at the time of the filing of the petition and
that the bankrupt or his representative is entitled to the balance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the value thereof, and that the subsequent death of the bankrupt
had no effect on this division even though it occurred before adjudication.
191 Fed. Rep. 325, reversed.

THE facts, Which involve the construction of § 70a of
the Bankruptcy Act and the ownership of policies of
insurance on the life of a bankrupt, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Samuel H. Richards, with whom Mr. Thomas E.
French was. on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John D. McMullin, with whom Mr. Henry F.
Stockwell was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Harvey K. Partridge, Trustee in Bankruptcy of Benajah
D. Andrews, by petition filed in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey, sought to acquire
the title to the proceeds of certain insurance policies upon
the life of Benajah D. Andrews, bankrupt, deceased, a
claim to such proceeds having been made by the executrix
of Andrews' estate. An order having been eiltered in the
District Court in favor of the executrix, except as to the
cash surrender value of the policies, the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, upon a petition to revise,
reversed the decree of the District Court and ordered that
the proceeds pass entirely to the trustee. 191 Fed. Rep.
325. To review that decree this writ of certiorari was
issued.
It appears fromthe finding of facts by the Circuit Court
of Appeals that a petition in-involuntary bankruptcy was
filed against Andrews on February 3, 1910; that on April 4,
1910, he was adjudicated a barikrupt, and on April 28
of the same year a trustee was elected and qualified. It
further appears that Andrews-died-on February 15, 1910,

ANDREWS v. PARTRIDGE.
228 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

having at that time, and at the time of the filing of the
petition in'bankruptcy, two policies of insurance upon his
life, one for $10,000 payable upon his death to his executors, administrators 6r assigns, and the other for $5,000
payable upon his death to his estate. At the date of filing
the petition in bankruptcy the $10,000 policy had a cash
surrender value of $14.93 and was subject to a loan of
$4,481.39; and the S5,000 policy had a cash surrender
value of $100. Under a stipulation between the trustee
and the executrix the net proceeds of the two policies were
paid to the trustee to be held until the title thereto had
been determined.
The District Court decreed that the trustee was entitled
to the cash surrender value of the policies as of the date
of the filing of thepetition, and that the bankrupt estate
had no interest in the balance of the proceeds of the
policies: The Circuit Court of Appeals also held that the
cash surrender value of the policies must be ascertained
as' of the date of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
Construing § 70a of the Bankruptcy Act, it decided, however, that the policies passed to the trustee, subject to the
right of the bankrupt to pay or secure to the trustee the
cash surrender value of the policies and to continue to
hold and own them, but that this right was extinguished
by his death before adjudication.
This case was argued and submitted at the same time as
the cases of Burlingham v. Crouse, ante, p. 459, and Everett
v. Judson, ante,§p. 474. An application of the principles
therein laid down requires the reversal 6f the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and it is accordingly
Reversed.

VOL. ccxxvrt--31

