OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

it is made answerable for damages done by others its
property is taken without due process of law. But in the
former case there was the same stipulation in the bill of
lading, and the supposed through routes were only presumed. In the second case the carrier is spoken of as
voluntarily accepting goods for a point beyond its line,
but there too there was the same attempt to limit liability,
and in the present case the acceptance was voluntary in
the same degree as in that. There is no substantial distinction between the earlier decisions and this.
Judgment affirmed.

CONSOLIDATED TURNPIKE COMPANY v. NORFOLK & OCEAN VIEW RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 152.

Petition for rehearing submitted April 28, 1913.-Decided
May 12, 1913.

Petition for rehearing granted, not because of doubt of correctness of
the decree, but to preVent misconception concerning the reasons for
dismissing the writ of error in this case, ante, p. 326.
The certificate of the judge of the court below that a Federal question
was raised and passed upon is not, in the absence of any journal entry, a certificate of the court, but this court may, if there is a recital
in the certificate that the court orders the certificate to be made,
accept it as incorporating into the record the necessary proof of
existence of a Federal question. Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212,
distinguished.
Where the judgment of the state court rests upon a question of general
law broad enough to support the decision, this court will not consider the Federal question, although it may have been raised in, and
passed upon by, the court below. Gaar,Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223
U. S. 468.

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO. 597
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This court is not justified in taking jurisdiction on the bare claim that
property has been taken without compensation, unless the averments
of fact raise real and substantial questions which are not so devoid
of merit as to be frivolous or which have not been foreclosed by prior
decisions of this court.
The state courts of Virginia having held that a railroad company which
had acquired title to land on which it had built its roadbed could
condemn the interest in the land of a mortgagee in possession without paying for its own improvements, this court declines to review
on the ground that the question of whether the mortgagee was deprived of his property without due process of law is frivolous.
The rule of the common law that fixtures annexed to the realty become
a part thereof and subject to existing liens thereon is subject to many
exceptions: in Virginia a corporation possessing the power of eminent
domain may enter and use for public utility purposes and condemn
the interest of the mortgagee without being obliged to pay more than
the value of the land without such improvements.
Petition to rehear, 228 U. S. 326, dismissing writ of error to review
111 Virginia, 131, denied.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state courts where the Federal
question is so devoid of merit as to be frivolous, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Charles H. Burr for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry W. Anderson and Mr. E. Randolph Williams
for defendant in error.
Opinion of the court on petition to rehear, by MR. JusTICE LURTON.
We gave leave to file the application for rehearing, not
because of any doubt as to the correctness 9 f the decree
previously announced, but because of our desire to prevent any misconception concerning the reasons by which
our previous conclusion to dismiss was sustained. It is
insisted that the certificate of the presiding judge of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

court below, reciting that a Federal question was raised
and passed upon by the court when it considered and disposed of the petition to rehear, was plainly not the certificate of the judge alone, but that of the court itself, and,
therefore, was sufficient to demonstrate the existence of
jurisdiction under the ruling in Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S.
212.
The judgment of the inferior court in Marvin v. Trout
had been affirmed without any opinion. Thereafter the
Ohio Supreme Court ordered what is termed "a journal
entry" to be made, certifying that the plaintiff in error
had claimed that the judgment affirmed was founded
upon certain sections of the Revised Statutes of Ohio,
and that the plaintiff in error had "in his petition asserted
that the said sections of the Revised Statutes were in contravention of specified provisions of the Constitution of
the United States," and that the judgment of affirmance was in favor of the validity of said statutes. This
court said that the certificate was "a certificate from
the court as distinguished from one by an individual
Judge."
In the present case, while it is true that the certificate
of the presiding judge contains a recital to the effect that
"the court orders it to be certified and made a part of the
record in this case and the Honorable James Keith,
President Judge of said Supreme Court of Appeals, does
now certify," etc., there is no journal entry as to the
matter and nothing is otherwise contained in the record
giving the slightest intimation that a Federal question
was raised and decided or the nature and character of such
question, if any.
The distinction between this case and Marvin v. Trout
is therefore this: Here there is nothing in the record proper
showing that a Federal question was considered and passed
.upon by the court below, although there is a certificate
of the presiding judge to the effect that such was the case,

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO. 599
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

while in the Marvin Case there was a record disclosure of
the existence of the Federal question which was in effect
also certified to by the presiding judge of the court below.
In other words, the distinction between the two cases in
no way involved the accuracy of the certificate of the presiding judge, but whether conceding-as of course must
be done-its, complete accuracy, it was sufficient to show
the existence of jurisdiction .inthe absence otherwise in
the record of anything establishing that a Federal question
was below considered and decided. Despite this difference
and to prevent any possible inference that there was any
intention to doubt in the slightest degree the accuracy of
the statement contained in the certificate of the presiding
judge of the court below, we have concluded that as it is
recited in the certificate that it was made by the order of
the court itself for the purpose of affording record evidence
of the fact that a Federal question was considered and
disposed of, that we may treat the certificate to that effect
as incorporating into the record the necessary proof of the
existence of some Federal question as the basis upon which
our authority to review may be exerted.
Assuming, therefore, that this certificate operates to
show that some Federal question was decided when the
petition to rehear was refused, yet if it also appears that
the judgment of the state court against the plaintiff in
error was based upon a question of general law broad
enough to support the decision, this court will not consider the Federal question, though it was considered and
determined by the court below adversely to the plaintiff
in error. Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 636;
Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; Gaar, Scott & Co. v. Shannon,
223 U. S. 468.
The bare claim that the judgment operated, to take
property of the plaintiff in error without compensation is
not enough to justify this court in taking jurisdiction
unless it also appears from the averments of fact upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

which the claim must depend that the question is one
real and substantial and not so utterly without merit as
to be frivolous, or a question concluded by previous decisions of this court: New Orleans Water Works v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336; Equitable Assurance Society v. Brown,
187 U. S. 308, 314; Deming v. Carlisle Packing Co., 226
U. S. 102. In EquitableAssurance Society v. Brown; supra,
it was said (p. 311): "There must be a real, substantive
question upon which the case may be made to turn, that
.is, a real and not a merely formal Federal question is
essential to the jurisdiction of this court." The writ in
that case was dismissed, the court saying (p. 314): "That
although a Federal question was raised below in a formal
manner, that question, when examined with reference to
the averments of fact upon which it was made to. depend,
is one which has been so explicitly decided by this court
as to foreclose further argument on the subject, and hence
to cause the Federal question relied upon to be devoid of
any substantial foundation or merit."
The unsubstantial character of the Federal question
in the present case will appear when we come to examine
the facts upon which it depends.
The condemnation proceeding was in the right of the
Bay. Shore Company, a public service corporation of the
State of Virginia, possessed of the right of eminent domain. That company was in possession of the land sought
to be cQndemned, it being a long, narrow strip acquired
for the purpose of constructing thereon a line of electric
railway. It had entered under a warranty deed from the
Consolidated Turnpike Company, another public service
corporation of Virginia. The whole of the property of
the latter corporation was under two mortgages made
by it to secure issues of negotiable bonds, the land acquired
under the deed of the Turnpike Company being but a part
of the property subject to the aforesaid mortgages. The
principal defendant below was, and the real plaintiff in

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO. 601
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error here is, Walter H. Taylor, as trustee under both
mortgages. The purpose of the condemnation proceeding
was to condemn 'the interest of the mortgagees and any
other adverse interest affecting the title of the Bay Shore
Company. Though the entry was under the deed of the
Turnpike Company, and, therefore, subject to the preexisting liens of Taylor, trustee, the possession was taken
for the purpose of placing thereon the railway tracks and
of later extinguishing the interest of the mortgagees by
condemnation or otherwise. The claim of the condemning
plaintiffs was that the Bay Shore Company, as a corporation, having the right of eminent domain, might thus enter
by permission of the mortgagor company, and later condemn the mortgagee's interest by paying the actual value
of the land, without considering the improvements which
it had placed thereon after entry and before the institution
of the proceeding. The judgment of the court below was
that the only compensation which might be demanded
by the mortgagees was the actual value of the land, and
that they had in such a proceeding no right to require the
improvements placed thereon by the condemning railway company to be considered in awarding damages.
The contention of the plaintiffs in error is that the permanent fixtures annexed to the mortgaged land passed by
virtue of the mortgages to the trustee therein, and that
there cannot be any condemnation which does not value
such fixtures in assessing the value of the land taken. This
was the claim which the Virginia -court denied, holding
that such a public service corporation had the right to
enter under the deed ot the mortgagor company and
later condemn, compensating the mortgagees for the land
only.

The contention here made is that under the Virginia
Eminent Domain Statute the Bay Shore Company, as a
public service corporation, had no power to condemn the
property of the Consolidated Turnpike Company, another

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

public service corporation, and that, therefore, the basis
for the right of condemnation exercised in the state court
did not exist.
It was not necessary to acquire any right, title or interest which belonged to the Turnpike Company. Its title
and right had been theretofore acquired through its deed,
and all that was sought to be condemned was such right,
title and interest as was in Taylor, Trustee. That was
subject to condemnation, and the single question which
was or is debatable is whether the Bay Shore Company,
which had entered under that deed, might condemn the
mortgagee interest without paying for its own improvements.
The rule of the common law, to which the plaintiffs in
error refer, that fixtures annexed to realty become a part
thereof and subject to existing liens thereon, is one subject
to many exceptions. One of these is that applied by the
Virginia court, namely, that when a corporation possessing the right of eminent domain enters upon lands necessary for its public purposes, under the deed of a mortgagor
in possession, and places permanent improvements thereon
in good faith, it may later condemn the interest and title
of the mortgagee without being required to pay more than
the value of the land without the improvements placed
thereon with intent to acquire the entire title. Searl v.
School District, 133 U. S. 553, 561; St. Johnsbury &c. Rd.
v. Willard, 61 Vermont, 134; Jones v. N. 0. Rd. Co., 70
Alabama, 232; Justice v. Valley &c. Rd. Co., 87 Pa. St.
28; 2 Lewis Em. Dom., § 759, 3d ed.
From this it abundantly appears that the decision of the
Virginia court was placed upon the general law of the
State, and that when the Bay Shore Company entered
upon the strip of land desired for a right of way under
the deed of the Turnpike Company, it might place thereon
its tracks and appurtenances, with the right to condemn
the interest of predxisting mortgagees upon paying the

3AILEY v. SANDERS.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

actual value of the land without the improvement placed
thereon by it.
The claim that in thus holding and deciding the court
below denied to the plaintiff in error due process of law
under the Fourteenth Amendment is -neither real nor
substantial, but so entirely without merit as to justify
this court in refusing to take jurisdiction.
The petition to rehear is accordingly denied.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in the result.

BAILEY v. SANDERS.
APPEAL FROM'THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 271.

Submitted April 30, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

On the facts disclosed by the record in this case, the finding by the
Land Department that there was an agreement to convey by the
homesteader was not arbitrary or unsupported by evidence.
While, in a contest before the Land Department, the decision should
be confined to the questions put in issue by the parties, there is no
objection to the decision of other' questions to which the hearing
was extended by consent of the parties.
Under §§ 2289, 2290, Rev. Stat., the right to enter a homestead is for
the exclusive benefit of the entryman who cannot alienate before
the claim is perfected; nor is this affected by the act of March 3,
1891, giving the right to commute the entry.
Entering into a forbidden agreement to alienate a homestead entered
under §§.2289, 2290, Rev. Stat., ends the right of the entryman to
make proof and payment and renders him incompetent to further
proceed with his entry. Hafemann V. Gross, 199 U. S.342.
177 Fed. Rep. 667, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a homesteader to
alienate the land he seeks to enter before he has finally
perfectedthe entry, are stated in the opinion.

