GULF, COLORADO &c RY. CO. v. McGINNIS.
228 U. S.

173

Opinion of the Court.

GULF, COLORADO AND SANTA FE RAILWAY
CO. v. McGINNIS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 762.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The Employers' Liability Act of 1908, as heretofore construed by this
court, is intended only to compensate the surviving relatives of a
deceased employ6 for actual pecuniary loss sustained by his death.
A recovery under the Employers' Liability Act of 1 08 must be limited
to compensating those relatives for whom the administrator sues as
are shown to have sustained some pecuniary loss.
While the judgment for a claim under the Employers' Liability Act of
1908 may be'for a gross amount, the interest of each individual must
be measured by his or her industrial pecuniary loss; this apportionment is for the jury to return.
As the judgment in this case must be reversed on a Federal question
and sent back for new trial, this court declines to express an opinion on the other questions; upon another trial the facts may be
different.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 defining
who are entitled to compensation for damages thereunder,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. H. Culwell, with whom Mr. J. W. Terry, Mr.
GardinerLathrop and Mr. A. B. Browne were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Winbourn Pearceand Mr. A. L. Curtis for defendant
in error submitted.
Mmo. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in a state court of Texas under
the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35 St~t. 65,
c. 149, by the administratrix of W. T. McGinnis, to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

cover damages for his negligent death while in the service
of the plaintiff in error and while engaged as engineer on
an interstate passenger train. The cause of the death was
a derailment which occurred while the train was passing
over a switch. The defense of the company was that the
derailment was caused by malicious tampering with the
switch by a stranger, and that the company had not been
guilty of any negligence in either providing a safe track
and appliance, or in the inspection or maintenance of the
track and appliances. There was a jury, verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, which, upon writ of error to the
Court of Civil Appeals for the Third Supreme Judicial
District of the State of Texas, was affirmed. A writ of
error has been allowed to that court, it being the highest
court to which the case could be carried under the law of
the State.
It is assigned as error that the court misconstrued the
character of the liability imposed by the act under which
the suit was brought by a ruling that there might be a judgment for the benefit of one of the surviving children, although there was neither allegation nor evidence that that
surviving child was either dependent upon or had any
reasonable ground for expecting any pecuniary benefit
from a continuance of the decedent's life..
The decedent left a widow and four children, and the
suit was brought by the widow as administratrix for the
benefit of herself and the four children named in the petition. One of the surviving children was Mrs. Nellie
Saunders, a married woman, residing with and maintained by her husband. There was neither allegation nor
evidence that Mrs. Saunders was in any way dependent
upon the decedent, nor that she had any reasonable expectation of any pecuniary benefit as a result of a continuation of his life. The court was requested to instruct
the jury that it could not find any damage in favor of
Mrs. Saunders, but this, it declined to do.

GULF, COLORADO &c RY. CO. v. McGINNIS. 175
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The jury was instructed if they found for the plaintiff
to return a verdict for such a sum as would justly compensate the persons for whose benefit the suit was brought
for such pecuniary benefits as they might believe from the
evidence the beneficiaries had a reasonable expectation of
receiving from the decedent, if his death had not been so
occasioned. They were further told to find a round sum
in favor of the plaintiff, and then apportion that sum
among all the persons for whom the suit had been brought,
stating in their verdict, "how much, if anything, you find
for each of said persons." The jury returned a verdict
for $15,000, and apportioned it, one-half to the widow, and
the remainder equally among the four children, including
Mrs. Saunders.
The Court of Civil Appeals upheld this ruling, saying
that "the Federal statute expressly authorizes the suit to
be brought by the personal representative for the benefit
of the surviving wife and children of the deceased, irrespective of whether they were dependent upon him, or had
the right to expect any pecuniary assistance from him."
This construction of the character of the statutory liability imposed by the act of Congress was erroneous. In
a series of cases lately decided by this court, the act in this
aspect has been construed as intended only to compensate
the surviving relatives of such a deceased employ6 for
the actual pecuniary loss resulting to the particular person
or persons for whose benefit an action is given. The recovery must therefore be limited to compensating those
relatives for whose benefit the administrator sues as are
shown to have sustained some pecuniary loss. Michigan
Central Railroadv. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; American Railroad v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145. In the last cited case,
speaking of the Employers' Liability Act, we said (p. 149):
"The cause of action which was created in behalf of the
injured employ6 did not survive his death, nor pass to
his representatives. But the act, in case of the death of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

such an employ6 from his injury, creates a new and djstinct right of action for the benefit of the dependent
relatives named in the statute. The damages recoverable
are limited to such loss as results to them because they
have been deprived of a reasonable expectation of pecuniary benefits by the wrongful death of the injured employ6.
The damage is limited strictly to the financial loss thus
sustained."
The statutory action of an administrator is not for the
equal benefit of each of the surviving relatives for whose
benefit the suit is brought. Though the judgment may be
for a gross amount, the interest of each beneficiary must
be measured by his or her individual pecuniary loss. That
apportionment is for the jury to return. This will, of
course, exclude ahy .recovery in behalf of such as show no
pecuniary loss.
It has also been assigned as error that the defense of
assumed risk was, in legal effect, denied, because the court
overruled a motion to instruct a verdict for the defendant.
The defense of assumed risk was submitted to the jury
under a full and fair general charge. In addition a number of special requests asked by the railroad company in
respect to several aspects of the facts were given. The
contention is that upon all of the evidence in the case
there was no sufficient evidence of any negligence for which
the company was chargeable, in law, and that in such case
the death of the decedent must have been due to some
assumed risk. We pass this by.
The judgment must be reversed upon the Federal question already considered. Upon another trial the facts
may be altogether different and we decline to express any
opinion as to their legal effect. Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590.
For the cause indicated, the judgment will be
Reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.

