. 328

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

CONSOLIDATED TURNPIKE COMPANY v. NORFOLK & OCEAN VIEW RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 152.

Argued January 28, 29, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

Under § 237 of the Judicial Code, as under § 709, Rev. Stat., in order
to give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of the state
court it must appear that some Federal right, privilege or immunity
was specially set up in the state court, passed on and denied.
While just compensation for private property taken for public use is an
essential element of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment, the question of whether every element of compensation was
allowed by the state court cannot be reviewed in this court except
as based on claims specially set up in and denied by that court.
Where'there is an equal right to compensation under the state constitution as under the Fourteenth Amendment, a mere demand for
just compensation not specifically made under Federal right does not
raise a Federal question.
An exception to the report of Commissioners on the ground tdat their
interpretation of the state statute of eminent domain violates a
specified clause of the Federal Constitution does not give this court
the right to review the judgment on the ground that other rights of
the plaintiff in error under the Constitution have been violated.
It is too late to raise the Federal question for the first time in a petition
for rehearing after judgment of the state court of last resort unless
the record clearly shows that the state court actually entertains the
petition and decides the question.
Where the state court denies a petition for rehearing, setting up a
Federal question for the first time, without opinion, it does not pass
on the Federal question even though it states that the petition has
been maturely considered. Forbes v. State Council, 216 U. S. 396.
While a certificate of the state court can make more definite and certain
that which is insufficiently shown in the record, it cannot import the
question into the record and in itself confer jurisdiction on this court
to review the judgment.
Writ of error to review 111 Virginia, 131, dismissed.

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO. 327
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

CERTAiN facts essential to the presentation of the questions of law upon which the judgment must turn will be
preliminarily stated.
The Consolidated Turnpike Company, a corporation of
the State of Virginia, acquired and united two or more toll
roads, extending from Norfolk to Ocean View, on the seashore. The land acquired was somewhat more than was
needed for a turnpike and so the turnpike company, by
warranty deed, conveyed a strip 18 to 25 feet wide to the
Bay Shore Terminal Company, also a Virginia corporation, upon which the latter company constructed a line
of electric railway, with the necessary power houses and
stations. This conveyance was made subject to two prior
mortgages. These mortgages were for the purpose of
securing bonds, and the plaintiff in error Taylor is trustee
in both, and the plaintiff in error Depue a holder of some
of the bonds.
The Bay Shore Company in time became insolvent, and
a creditor's bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States at Norfolk, and its road and assets of every
kind placed in the hands of a receiver. In that proceeding
it appeared that its property was encumbered by the
two mortgages before referred to and other liens. To. clear
the title before sale the Circuit Court directed its receiver
to file a proper proceeding in a court of the State for the
purpose of condemning any adverse title and all 6utstanding claims or liens against the land occupied by its
tracks and appliances. Such a proceeding was accordingly filed, and Taylor, as trustee under the two deeds in
trust, was made a defendant, together with certain others
claiming other interests or liens. Depue, as a holder of
bonds secured by the deeds in trust, intervened in behalf
of himself as a beneficiary. The final decree in that proceeding is the decree here under review. Pending the
condemnation proceedings, the property of the Bay Shore
Terminal Company was sold under a decree made in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

original winding up suit in the United States Circuit Court,
and purchased by the defendant in error, the Norfolk and
Ocean View Railway Company, and conveyed to that
company, "with the benefit of and subject to all suits and
proceedings which have been or may be instituted by said
receiver."
Pending this condemnation proceeding, Taylor as
trustee and Depue as a beneficiary, although parties to
the pending condemnation case, began, in a state court,
a proceeding against the turnpike company to foreclose
the mortgages referred to. The Ocean View Company,
as purchaser of the property of the Bay Shore Company
under the decree of sale made by the Circuit Court of
the United States, applied to that court by petition and
supplemental bill to enjoin the foreclosure suit until the
proceeding to condemn the mortgagee interest pending in
another state court should be decided. It was accordingly
enjoined and upon appeal by Taylor, trustee, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the injunction decree was upheld.
162 Fed. Rep. 452.
Recurring now to the condemnation proceeding: Commissioners were appointed and directed to ascertain "a just
compensation for the interest of all persons or corporations
having any interest in or claim against or lien upon said
land, either by deed in trust or mortgage." They were
directed to report the present value of the land with and
without improvements and the value thereof on May 1,
1902, the date of the conveyance of same by the Consolidated Company to the Bay Shore Company. The
Commissioners', report was as follows:
$5,000.00
"If valued as of the 1st day of May, 1902
Will be a just compensatian.
If valued as of the date of this report, without
improvements .......................... .. 6,200.00
Will be a just compensation.

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO. 329
228 U. S.

For the
For the
For the
For the
For the
For the
For the

Statement of the Case.

land, with improvements...........
steel rails .....................
railroad ties ......................
poles ............................
overhead construction .............
machinery in power house ..........
buildings on Tract No. 2............

Making a total of ....................
Will be a just compensation."

7,200.00
15,000.do
1,250.00
.1,250.00
2,500.00
25,000.00
5,000.00
$57,200.00

Later the report came on to be heard upon exceptions
filed thereto by Depue, as representing the beneficiaries
under the Taylor mortgages. Taylor, as trustee, had all
along been a party, and when Depue waived and withdrew
nine of his exceptions to the report Taylor joined him in
such waiver of exceptions. The exceptions which re7
mained included exceptions to the valuation reported as
of May, 1.902, and the valuation reported as of the date
of the report, May 15, 1906.
As the report was in the alternative the question was
whether that part of the report which fixed the value
without improvements, or that part which fixed the value
with improvements should be adopted. The trial court
fixed the just compensation at $57,200, which included
the value added by the railway and stations which had
been placed thereon by the Bay Shore Company, the
predecessor in title of the Ocean View Company, and
directed the latter company to deposit that sum in bank
subject to the court's order.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia, where it was held that the
compensation for the mortgagee interest should have been
limited to the present value of the property without
improvements placed thereon by the Bay Shore Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mr. Charles H. Burr for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Henry W. Anderson, with whom Mr. E. Randolph
Williams was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The case comes here under § 709, Revised Statute5, now
§ 237 of the new Judicial Code. It must therefore appear
that some right, privilege or immunity was claifiied under
the Constitution, or some statute of the United States,
and that the decision was against the right, -privilege
or immunity so claimed and specially setup by the plaintiff
in error.
The error assigned here is that in permitting the condemnation of the interest of the miortgagees in the strip
of land condemned without including the value of the
permanent improvements placed thereon by the predecessor in title of the defendant in error, the Virginia
court has authorized the taking of the property of the
mortgagee plaintiff in error "without due process of law,
in violation of the Constitution -of the United States."
Just compensation for private property taken for public
use is an essential element of due process of law as guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment. C*, B. & Q. R. R.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. The argument is that, if, therefore, just compensation required that the compensation
awarded for the 'interest condemned should include the
value of the land -with improvements, and the value of
such improvements be not so included, due process is
lacking; that it would not in such case be a mere claim
of inadequate compensation, but a denial of all compensation for an element of value actually existing as a part of
the property taken. C., B. & Q. R. R. v. Chicago, supra;
Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524.

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO.
228 U. S.

331

Opinion of the Court.

Before considering whether this is a case for the application of the principle invoked, however, the preliminary
question is'whether any such claim or right under the
Fourteenth Amendment was "specially set up" in the
state court, and whether the record shows that the right
so specially set up was denied?
It is contended that the right to just compensation was
the whole substance of the litigation in the state court,
and that this right arose under the Constitution of the
United States. This latter assertion does not necessarily
follow, since under the law and constitution of the State
the plaintiffs in error were equally entitled to due process
of law including just compensation for property taken for
public purposes, and the case might well have been litigated wholly upon local law. Just such a contention was
held ineffectual in Osborne v. Clark, 204 U. S. 565, 569,
when it was said:
"If a case is carried through the state courts upon
arguments drawn from the state constitution alone, the
defeated party cannot try his chances here merely by
suggesting for the first time when he takes his writ of
error that the decision is wrong under the Constitution
of the United States, Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 367, 398;
Simmerman v. Nebraska, 116 U. S. 54; Hagarv. California,
154 U. S.639; Erie Railroad v. Purdy, 185 U. S.148, 153."
The ground upon which the claim was asserted to compensation for the improvements placnd upon the land by
the Bay Shore Company was the common-law principle
that permanent structures placed upon the realty of another by a trespasser, become the property of the owner
and pass under any incumbrance created by the owner.
Therefore, it was contended, if the Bay Shore Company
saw fit to construct upon land subject to the deeds of trust
represented by the plaintiffs in error, with no other authority than that of a deed from the mortgagor in possession, the structures placed thereon passed under the mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

gage, and any decree condemning the land which denied
compensation for the value of the land thus enhanced
operates to deprive the mortgagees of a part of their
security without due process of law.
This view of the law of the State was the view which
the trial court accepted, upon the authority of the case of
Newport News &c. Ry. v. Lake, 101 Virginia, 334. The
Supreme Court of the State upon appeal (111 Virginia, 131)
reversed this conclusion and held that, "where a corporation clothed with the power of eminent domain, lawfully
enters into the possession of land for its purposes, and
places improvements thereon, and afterwards institutes
condemnation proceedings to cure a defective title, or to
extinguish the lien of a deed of trust, it is not proper
in ascertaining 'just compensation' for such land to take
into consideration the value of such improvements.
"The commissioners in their report ascertained the
value of the land, as of the date of their report, without
considering the improvements, at $6,200. This sum we
think should have been fixed as the just compensation
for the land taken, and that the trial court erred in not
so holding."
The case of Newport News &c. Ry. v. Lake, supra, relied upon by the trial court, was distinguished, the Supreme Court saying that in that case, "the premises
had been sold under the deed of trust and the purchaser,
who was the defendant in the condemnation proceedings,
had recovered the premises in. an action of ejectment
after the improvements had been placed upon the premises
by the railway company under the authority of the grantors in the deed of trust," and was therefore not limited
to the value of the land as it was before the improvements.
Up to the filing of this opinion by the Supreme Court
of the State no right or claim to due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment was anywhere specially
set up upon the record. Nor is there any mention of the

CONSOL. TURNPIKE v. NORFOLK &c. RY. CO.
228 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution of the United States aside from that found
in the fifteenth exception to the report of the commissioners to assess compensation. The exception referred to
was in these words:
"15. Said report is also excepted to by said Arthur W.
Depue on the ground that if it is held that the proper
interpretation of the present statute of eminent domain
is that this property can be taken and that in the measure
of damages the value of the land alone is to be considered
without improvements, then that such interpretation
impairs the obligation of a contract within the Constitution
of the United States, because it is a different interpretation from what the Court of Appeals of Virginia prior
to this new statute has placed upon the statute law relative to such improvements."
At most that is a vague claim that if the Virginia
Eminent Domain statute shall be construed as excluding
damage for improvements, there would result a change
of decision which would impair the obligation of a contract.
No question of the impairment of the obligation of a
contract was decided in the trial court nor in the Supreme
Court, nor is any such question assigned as error here,
nor presented in argument. Upon a petition for a rehearing filed in the Supreme Court one of several grounds
stated was, that a decree taking the land-in question without compensation for the improvements thereon would be
"a taking without due process of law in violation not only
of the constitution of Virginia, but of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
This application was refused, without opinion, the judgment entry being in these words:
"The court having maturely considered the petition
aforesaid, the same is denied."
The words "maturely considered" do not import any
decision of the question made. Just such an entry has

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been held to be no more than a refusal to rehear the case:
Forbes v. State Council, 216 U. S. 396.
Nothing is better settled than that it is too late to raise a
Federal question for the first time in a petition for a
rehearing, after the final judgment of the state court of
last resort. If, however, the state court actually entertains the petition and decides the Federal question, and
this appears by the record, the requirement of § 709 that
the right shall be specially set up and denied is complied
with. McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S. 432; Mallett v.
North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; McMillen v. Mining Company, 197 U. S. 343, 347.
Having neglected to raise any Federal question before

the final judgment in the state Supreme Court, and having
failed to obtain a rehearing that the question might thereby
be raised and a decision obtained upon it, the plaintiffs
in error have endeavored to show that in fact the Supreme
Court of Virginia did rehear the case upon their petition
and did decide the Federal question, therein for the first
time raised, adversely, by obtaining the certificate of the
Chief Justice of the court, months after the court had
handed down its final opinion, that the court, "refused the
said petition for a rehearing on the ground inter alia that
the decree or decision of this court

.

.

did not con-

stitute a taking of the property of the defendants in error
without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
and that the said defendants in error were not thereby
deprived of any rights under said Amendment." This
certificate was never made the order of the court and a
part of the record, as. in Marqin v. Trout, 199 U. S.212,
where it was held "perhaps sufficient" to show what
Federal question was decided in a case where no opinion
was filed. But that such a certificate can do no more than
make more definite and certain that which otherwise may
be insufficiently shown by the record proper is the settled

SY JOC LIENG v. SY QUIA.
228 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

rule of this court. That in itself it cannot confer jurisdiction is too plain for controversy. Seaboard Air Line v.
Duvall, 225 U. S. 477; Home for Incurables v. New York,
187 U. S. 155. At the utmost it may aid to the understand-

ing of the record. Gulf & Ship Island Railway v. Hewes,
183 U. S. 66.
For the reasons stated, the writ of error must be

Dismissed.

SY JOC LIENG v. GREGORIO SY QUIA.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 177.

Argued March 7, 10, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

Every presumption is in favor of the validity of a marriage where the
marital relations have continued uninterruptedly for over forty
years without any question being raised or right asserted by anyone
claiming under an earlier marriage of one of the parties until more
than ten years after the death, and five years after the distribution
of the property, of that party.
The validity of such a marriage should not be impugned exc( It upon
clear, strong and unequivocal proof; nor in the absence of such proof
will this court reverse the judgment of the lower court sustaining
its validity when attacked by those who had opportunity to do so
before the death of both spouses.
16 Phil. Rep. 137, affirmed.
facts, which involve conflicting claims to the estate
of a Chinese merchant domiciled in the Philippine Islands
and of the validity of his marriage, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston,. with whom Mr. W. Morgan
Shuster, Mr. Clement L. Bouvg,, Mr. Frederick L. Siddons

and Mr. Win. E. Richardson were on the brief, for appellants.

