3AILEY v. SANDERS.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

actual value of the land without the improvement placed
thereon by it.
The claim that in thus holding and deciding the court
below denied to the plaintiff in error due process of law
under the Fourteenth Amendment is -neither real nor
substantial, but so entirely without merit as to justify
this court in refusing to take jurisdiction.
The petition to rehear is accordingly denied.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in the result.

BAILEY v. SANDERS.
APPEAL FROM'THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 271.

Submitted April 30, 1913.-Decided May 12, 1913.

On the facts disclosed by the record in this case, the finding by the
Land Department that there was an agreement to convey by the
homesteader was not arbitrary or unsupported by evidence.
While, in a contest before the Land Department, the decision should
be confined to the questions put in issue by the parties, there is no
objection to the decision of other' questions to which the hearing
was extended by consent of the parties.
Under §§ 2289, 2290, Rev. Stat., the right to enter a homestead is for
the exclusive benefit of the entryman who cannot alienate before
the claim is perfected; nor is this affected by the act of March 3,
1891, giving the right to commute the entry.
Entering into a forbidden agreement to alienate a homestead entered
under §§.2289, 2290, Rev. Stat., ends the right of the entryman to
make proof and payment and renders him incompetent to further
proceed with his entry. Hafemann V. Gross, 199 U. S.342.
177 Fed. Rep. 667, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a homesteader to
alienate the land he seeks to enter before he has finally
perfectedthe entry, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Mr. Douglas W. Bailey pro se and Mr. Henry H. Gilfrey
for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to determine which of two claims to a tract
of land in the State of Idaho is the better one. The tract
is with1h the ceded portion of the Nez Perce Indian
Reservation, which was brought within the operation of
-the homestead law by the act of August 15, 1894, 28 Stat.
286, 332, c. 290. Bailey, the plaintiff, claims as the grantee
once removed of William W. Hately, who made a preliminary entry of the tract in 1899, commuted the entry
in 1901, and received the usual receipt and certificate.
Sanders, the defendant, claims, under an entry subsequently made and upon which he has obtained a patent.
The real controversy is over the effect to be given to
certain contest proceedings in the Land Department which
resulted in the cancellation of Hately's entry and in the
allowance of that of the defendant. In his bill of complaint
the plaintiff sets forth all or the major part of the proceedings and evidence in the contest and calls in question the
cancellation of Hately's entry. A demurrer to the bill
was sustained by the Circuit Court and the bill was dismissed. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 177 Fed. Rep. 667, and the plaintiff brings the
case here.
We shall refer briefly to such parts only of the case made
by the bill and the exhibits as have a direct bearing on
the questions requiring decision by us.
As soon as Hately's entry was commuted he conveyed
the land to one Beach, as the result of negotiations with
Bailey, the plaintiff, who claimed to beI acting for Beach.

BAILEY v. SANDERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The contest against the entry originated in a charge preferred by Sanders to the effect that a fraud had been
perpetrated in obtaining the conveyance to Beach and
that Bailey had for a long time been resorting to irregular
methods to secure the land. The charge was somewhat'
vaguely stated and pointed more to a fraud on Hately
than to one on the United States, but the Commissioner
of the General Land Office regarded it as requiring investigation and ordered a hearing in the local office, of which
Hately, Beach and Sanders were to be notified and in
which each was to be heard, "in order that all the facts
in the case might be brought out." The hearing was had,
Hately and Sanders appearing in. person and Beach being
represented by Bailey. Upon the evidence adduced the
local officers found, among other things, that two or three
months before Hately made his commutation proof an
agreement was made between him and Bailey whereby
the latter was to pay the expense of the .commutation and.
Hately was to convey the land to Bailey for an additional
consideration of $600 When the commutation was effected,
and that the conveyance to Beach was 'made at Bailey's
instance in pursuance of the agreement. By successive
Appeals the contest was carried before the Commissioner
of the General Land Office and the Secretary of the, Interior, with the result that the finding of the local officers'
was sustained and the entry cancelled because of the
agreement to convey. The conveyance from Beach to
Bailey was.made after the contest was heard by the local
officers and while it was pending on appeal. before the
General Land Office..
1. It is insisted that no evidence was adduced in the
contest tending to show the making of such an agreement
as was described in the finding of the Land Department,
and therefore that the cancellation of the entry was wholly
arbitrary and unauthorized. The evidence is set forth
in one of the exhibits to the bill, and it there appears that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Hately gave the following testimony: "Q. When did you
first come to know Mr. Bailey, or where did you first meet
him? A. Some time in January, 1901, Woodland, Idaho
[the entry was commuted in March following]. Q. What,
if any, conversation did he have with you on that occasion
concerning the land in controversy? A. He didn't say
.
Q. What did Mr. Bailey say to
much about it. .
you about proving up on your land, assisting you to prove
up, if anything at that time? A. He said he had some folks
that wanted a piece of land in the timber. Well, he wanted
a deed to the place, and I told him if I had to make the
deed what it would take to get the land. Q. How much
did you tell him you would take? A. I told him it would
take $600 besides the expense. Q. Were you living upon
your land at that time? A. Yes. Q. Was there any special
agreement made by you and Mr. Bailey at your house or
place? A. He drawed up some kind of an agreement, but
'I don't know what it was. Q. Did he read it to you and
inform you of the purport of the paper? A. Yes. Q. Did
Mr. Bailey subsequently have you appear before some
officer in order to consummate your final proof of the land
in question? A. He did. Q. When did Mr. Bailey have
you execute this deed which has been offered in this case,
marked Exhibit 'A' [deed to Beach] alleged to have been
signed by yourself and wife? A. Some time in March,
1901." There was also testimony to the effect that shortly
before the hearing Beach disclaimed any personal interest
in the land; and in the decision of the local officers, which
is an exhibit to the bill, it is stated that the commutation
price was paid by Bailey, and that, although present at
the hearing, he refused to be sworn. In these circumstances we think it cannot be said that the finding of the
Land Department respecting the agreement to convey was
arbitrary or without evidence to support it.
.2. Another objection urged against the action of the
Land Department is that the charge upon which the hear-

BAILEY v. SANDERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing was ordered did not clearly or certainly assail Hately's
entry on the ground that, before perfecting it, he had
entered into a prohibited agreement to convey the land
to another. It is true that the charge was vaguely stated,
but it does not appear that any prejudice resulted from
this. The principal testimony relating to the agreement
was given by Hately, and no objection was made to his
being interrogated on that subject. Nor was any effort
made to weaken that part of his testimony by crossexamination. Bailey, with whom Hately said the agreement was made, represented Beach at the hearing and
could have contradicted Hately's testimony, if it was not
true, but he did not attempt to do so. True, there is in
the bill an allegation that the local officers refused to
permit Beach to adduce evidence in rebuttal, the nature
of which is not stated in that connection, but it appears
from the exhibits to the bill that this evidence related to a
matter which is of no moment here, namely, the reason
why Beach had not paid a draft given by Bailey to Hately
for the deed from the latter. The real situation, then, in
respect of the proof of the prohibited agreement is that
it was introduced without objection, in circumstances
where it could have been controverted if untrue, and that
no attempt was made to dispute it. This being so, the
present objection must fail as did a similar one in Lee v.
Johnson, 116 U. S. 48. There an unsuccessful homestead
claimant, whose entry had been cancelled as the result
of a contest before the Land Department, sought to charge
the successful- claimant, whose entry had been passed to
patent, as- a trustee of the title. The contest before the
Land Department had been initiated by a charge that the
first entryman had abandoned the land for more than six
months, and the ultimate decision of the Secretary of the
Interior directing the cancellation of the entry was based
upon a finding, not that the entryman had abandoned the
land, but that he was seeking, by a seeming compliance

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

with the forms of law, to obtain the land for another. The
suit proceeded on the theory that the Secretary's decision
was inconclusive because resting upon a point not in issue between the contestants, and the Supreme Court of
Michigan sustained that theory. But when the case came
here it was held that, as it appeared from the evidence
presented in the contest, and particularly from the testimony of the entryman, that he was not acting in good faith
for himself but with the purpose of acquiring the title for
another, the Secretary had not exceeded his authority,
but had only exercised "that just supervision which the
law vests in him over all proceedings instituted to acquire
portions of the public lands." Doubtless it is true, as a
general rule, that in a contest before the Land Department
the decision should be confined to the questions put in
issue by the parties; but we think it is also true that
when, with their acquiescence, the hearing is extended to
other questions, there can be no objection to the decision
of the latter.
3. It is further contended that the homestead law does
not prohibit, but impliedly permits, an entryman to agree,
in advance of commuting his entry, to sell the land, and
therefore that the Land Department made a mistake of law
in canceling Hately's entry because of his agreement with
Bailey. The contention is not sound. Section 2289 of
the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 1099, c. 561, creates the homestead right
and names the beneficiaries. Section 2290, as amended
by the same act, requires any person applying to enter
land under the preceding section to make affidavit that,
among other things, "he or she does not apply to enter
the same for the purpose of speculation, but in good faith
to obtain a home for himself, or herself, and that he or she
has not directly or indirectly made, and will not make,

any agreement or. contract in any way or manner, with

.any person or persons, corporation or syndicate whatso-

BAILEY v. SANDERS.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ever, by which the title which he or she might acquire
from the Government of the United States should inure,
in whole or in part, to the benefit of any person, except
himself, or herself." It was under these sections that
Hately's preliminary entry was made. Section 2291, in
prescribing the time and manner of making final proof,
requires the applicant to make "affidavit that no part
of such land has been alienated, except as provided in
section twenty-two hundred eighty-eight," which permits
alienation for church, cemetery, school and other enumerated purposes, none of which is present here. Thus,
the homestead law not only proceeds upon the theory that
the land is to be acquired for the exclusive benefit of the
entryman, but contains provisions which make it impossible for him to perfect his claim, after alienation or contract therefor, without committing perjury. True, § 2301,
as amended by the act of March 3, 1891, supra, under
which Hately's entry was commuted, says nothing about
alienation, but its only purpose is to give the entryman
an option to substitute the minimun price of the land
for a part of the five years of residence and cultivation
otherwise required. In other respects the operation and
application of §§ 2290 and 2291 are not affected by it.
We are therefore of opinion that the Secretary of the
Interior did not err in ruling, as he did, that "entering into
such forbidden agreement ended the right of the entryman
to make proof and payment and rendered him .incompetent to further proceed with his entry." See Anderson
v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483, 487; Hafemann v. Gross, 199
U. S.342, 345.
. Other contentions are advanced in the brief for the
appellant, but of them it suffices to say that in our opinion
they have less merit than those before mentioned.
Decree affirmed.

VOL.

ccxxvixi-39

