FRANCIS v. McNEAL.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

him for his work. The only other reference to the matter
was by another of the plaintiff's witnesses, that the driver
was "not in the mood or attitude which he usually had
when we worked together in the shops," importing usual
sobriety. It would have been permitting a mere guess, to
allow the jury to find for the plaintiff on this ground.
Judgment affirmed.

FRANCIS, PETITIONER, v. McNEAL, TRUSTEE
IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE PROVIDENT INVESTMENT BUREAU.
ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 290.

Argued May 5, 6,1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Whether or not the copartnership is an entity distinct from the members, partnership debts are debts of the members of the firm.
The individual liability of partners for debts of the firm is primary and
direct; it is not collateral like that of a surety.
The business of a bankruptcy act is so far as may be to preserve, not
to upset, existing relations based on fundamental rules of law.
The Bankruptcy Act recognizes the firm as an entity for certain purposes, but does not alter the preexisting rule that the partnership
can be in bankruptcy and the partners not.
In this case an order directing that the separate estate of a member of
a firm which had been adjudicated bankrupt be turned over to the
trustee for administration is affirmed.
186 Fed. Rep. 481; 108 C. C. A. 459, affirmed.

THE
ruptcy
trustee
estates

facts, which involve the construction of the BankAct of 1898 in regard to the administration by the
of a bankrupt copartnership of the individual
of the partners, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles L. Frailey, with whom Mr. Henry J. Scott
was on -the brief, for petitioner:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Petitioner.

228 U. S.

The trustee of a partnership which has been declared a
bankrupt cannot administer the individual estate of a
partner who has not himself been adjudged bankrupt.
A' partnership for the purpose.of adjudication and administration in bankruptcy under the act of July 1, 1898,
is an entity separate and distinct from the members which
partnership.
compose
Under the
the act of 1898 a partnership is a "person."
It can commit any act of bankruptcy defined by the act
(In re Meyer, 98 Fed. Rep. 976, 979), including, of course,
that stated in § 3a. It can be discharged without reference
to its members, under §§ 14a and b.' Insolvency is defined,
and the definition refers to the assets and liabilities of a
"person."
It is, therefore, a concrete thing under the
act of 1898, subject as a distinct entity to the provisions
of the statute. Fidelity Co. v. Gaskell, 195 Fed. Rep. 865;
Mills v. Fisher, 159 Fed. Rep. 897; In re Bertenshaw, 157
Fed. Rep. 363; Tumlin v. Bryan, 165 Fed. Rep. 166; In re
Stein, 127 Fed. Rep. 547, 549; In re Mercur, 122 Fed. Rep.
384, 388; In re Sanderlin, 109 Fed. Rep. 857; In re Solomon,
163 Fed. Rep. 140; In re Everybody's Grocery, 173 Fed. Rep.
492; In re Meyer, 98 Fed. Rep. 976, 979; Strause v. Hooper,
105 Fed. Rep. 590; In re Farley, 115 Fed. Rep. 359, 361;
In re Barden, 101 Fed. Rep. 553, 555; In re Hale, 107
Fed. Rep. 432.
Before a partnership can be adjudged a bankrupt for
an, act of bankruptcy involving insolvency, it is not necessary that the individual partners must be insolvent
also. In re Bertenshaw, 157 Fed. Rep. 363. See also
In re Sanderlin, 109 Fed. Rep. 857; In re Solomon, 163
Fed. Rep. 140; In re Everybody's Grocery Co., 173 Fed. Rep.
492. The leading case in opposition to this contention,
Vaccaro v. Security Bank of Memphis, 103 Fed. Rep. 436,
recognizes that the partnership is a complete legal entity
and yet the property of the individual members of the
partnership must be considered upon the question of the

FRANCIS v. McNEAL.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

firm's solvency, because each member of the partnership
is liable in solido for the debts of the firm. But the individual property of each member is not the property of
the partnership, and does not belong to it.
If the proposition announced in Vaccaro v. Security
Bank of Memphis, 103 Fed. Rep. 436, is correct in a bankruptcy case involving insolvency the entity doctrine must
be abandoned, and an adjudication of a partnership for an
act of bankruptcy involving insolvency cannot take place
unless all the partners are also adjudicated bankrupts
upon that ground. If this is so, then the partnership is an
entity for some purposes and not for others, although no
such distinction whatever is made in the Bankruptcy Act
itself.
See also on this subject Tumlin v. Bryan, 165 Fed. Rep.
166; Re Forbes, 128 Fed. Rep. 137; In re Meyer, 98 Fed.
Rep. 384; Re Mercur, 122 Fed. Rep. 384.
Section 5h is applicable where the partnership has been
adjudicated a bankrupt as well as where it has not.
If there be an unadjudicated partner, he may administer
the estates of those who have been adjudicated; and if the
firm-the separate entity-has also been adjudicated,
certainly that fact cannot take from the unadjudicated
partner his right to settle the partnership business as provided by this subdivision.
Indeed, it is more reasonable to suppose that subdivision h applies only where the partnership has been adjudicated. Mills v. Fisher, 159 Fed. Rep. 897; Re Mercur,
122 Fed. Rep. 384, 388.
Subdivision h enunciates a well-recognized equitable
principle in the law of administration of partnerships.
And it is reasonable to suppose that it was inserted for
the purpose of covering the case, among others, where the
partnership, asan entity contemplated by the statute and
almost unanimously held by the Federal courts to be
such, has been adjudicated a bankrupt in a matter in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

volving insolvency, independently of its members together with one or more of the partners but not all thereof
and there is an unadjudicated partner. To hold otherwise would lead to the conclusion that this subdivision
"is in effect a provision that the partnership shall not be
made bankrupt except by an adjudication of all its partners, Re Forbes, 128 Fed. Rep. 137, supra, a conclusion
impossible under the entity doctrine.
The trustee of a partnership adjudicated a bankrupt
because of the commission by it of any of the acts of bankruptcy defined in the act of 1898, cannot draw to himself
for adminaistration or administer in bankruptcy the estate
of an unadjudicated partner. Re Stein, 127 Fed. Rep. 547;
Strause v. Hooper, 105 Fed. Rep. 590; In re Bertenshaw,
157 Fed. Rep. 363.
. The only cases contra are Re Duke, 199 Fed. Rep. 199;
Re Stokes, 106 Fed. Rep. 312; and the obiter in Re Meyer,
98 Fed. Rep. 977, and In re Wing Yick, 13 A. B. R.
757.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Mr. Edgar J.
Pershingwas on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a proceeding to review an order of the Bankruptcy Court to the effect that the separate estate of
Stanley Francis should be turned over for administration
to the respondent, McNeal, trustee in bankruptcy of a
firm of which Francis was a member. The order was made
on the petition of the trustee, and was affirmed upon
a petition for revision by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
186 Fed. Rep. 481. 108 C. C. A. 459.
The facts are short. Creditors filed a petition against
Latimer, Francis and Marrin, alleging that they were

FRANCIS v. McNEAL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

partners trading as the Provident Investment Bureau, and
that they were bankrupt individually and as a firm;
McNeal was appointed receiver of the partnership and
individual estates, but Francis denied that he was a
partner and sought to have the receiver discharged.
Thereupon, on March 13, 1906, it was agreed between the
counsel for the receiver and for Francis that McNeal
should be discharged as receiver of the individual estate
of Francis; that the question whether Francis was a
partner should be referred to one of the regular referees;
that until the determination of that question, his counsel,
Scott, should collect the rents and retain possession of his
estate; and that thereafter Scott should account and turn
over the funds to such person as the court might direct.
On April 17 an order was made embodying the agreement
and'naming a referee. The referee found that Francis was
a partner, and that now stands admitted for the purposes
of the present decision. The firm was adjudicated bankrupt in Jifne, 1909. McNeal was appointed trustee in
July and forthwith filed the petition upon which the order
in question was made. The order declared that the separate estate of Francis was subject to administration in
bankruptcy and ordered the real estate turned over to
McNeal, with leave to sell. The firm, even with the separate estates of the partners, will not be able to pay its
debts in full.
Since Cory on Accounts was made more famous by
Lindley on Partnership the notion that the firm is an entity distinct from its members has grown in popularity,
and the notion has been confirmed by recent speculations
as to the nature of corporations and the oneness of any
somewhat permanently combined group without the aid
of law. But the fact remains as true as ever that partnership debts are debts of the members of the firm, and that
the individual liability of the members is not collateral
like that of a surety, but primary and direct, whatever

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

priorities there may be in the marshalling of assets. The
nature of the liability is determined by the common law,
not by the possible intervention of the Bankruptcy Act.
Therefore ordinarily it would be impossible that a firm
should be insolvent while the members of it remained able
to pay its debts with money available for that end. A
judgment could be got and the partnership debt satisfied
on execution out of the individual estates.
The question is whether the Bankruptcy Act has established principles inconsistent with these fundamental rules,
although the business of such an act is so far as may be to
preserve; not to upset, existing relations. It is true that
by § 1, the word 'person' as used in the act includes partnerships; that by the same section, a person shall be deemed
insolvent when his property, exclusive &c., shall not be
sufficient to pay his debts; that by § 5a, a partnership may
be adjudged a bankrupt, and that by § 14a, any person
may file an application for discharge. No, doubt these
clauses. taken together recognize the firm as an entity for
certain purposes, the most important of which, after all,
is the old rule as to the prior claim of partnership debts
on partnership assets and that of individual debts upon
the individual estate. Section 5g. But we see no reason
for supposing that it was intended to erect a commercial
device for expressing special relations into an absolute and
universal formula-a guillotine for cutting off all the consequences admitted to attach to partnerships elsewhere
than in the bankruptcy courts. On the contrary we should
infer from § 5, clauses c through g, that the assumption
of the Bankruptcy Act was that the partnership and
individual estates both were to be administered, and that
the only exception was that in h, "in the event of one or
more, but not all of the members of a partnership being
adjudged bankrupt."
In that case naturally the partnership property may be
administered by the partners not adjudged bankrupt and

FRANCIS v. McNEAL.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

does not come into bankruptcy at all except by consent.
But we do not perceive that the clause imports that the
partnership could be in bankruptcy, and the partners not.
The' hypothesis is that some of the partners are in, but
that the firm has remained out, and provision is made for
its continuing out. The necessary and natural meaning
goes no further than that.
On the other hand it would be an anomaly to allow proceedings in bankruptcy against joint debtors from some
of whom, at any time before, pending, or after the proceeding, the debt could be collected in full. If such proceedings were 'allowed it would be a further anomaly not
to distribute all the partnership assets. Yet the individual
estate after paying private debts is part of those assets so
far as needed. Section 5f. Finally, it would be a third
incongruity to grant a discharge in such a case from the
debt considered as joint but to leave the same persons
liable for it considered as several. We say the same persons, for however much the difference between firm and
member under the statute be dwelt upon, the firm remains
at common law a group of men- and will be dealt with as
such in the ordinaiy courts for use in which the discharge
is granted. If, as in the present case, the partnership .and
individual estates together are not enough to pay the partnership debts, the rational thing to do, and one certainly
not forbidden by the act, is to administer both in bankruptcy. If such a case is within § 5h, it is enough that
Francis never has objected to the firm property being
administered by the trustee.
If it be said that the logical result of our opinion is that
the partners ought to be put into bankruptcy whenever
the firm is, as held by the late Judge Lowell, in an able
opinion, In re Forbes, 128 Fed. Rep. 137, it is a sufficient
answer that no such objection has been taken, but on the
contrary, Francis has consented and agreed to hand over
his property according to the order of the court. So far

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

as Vaccaro v. Security Bank of Memphis, 103 Fed. Rep.

436, 442, is inconsistent with the opinion of the majority
in In re Bertenshaw, 157 Fed. Rep. 363, we regard it as
sustained by the stronger reasons and as correct.
Decree affirmed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY. COMPANY v. HESTERLY, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 297.

Argued May 6, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

When the state court has overruled an objection that the Federal right
was not clearly presented, the objection is not open in this court.
Quwre, whether plaintiff can sue upon a statute of one jurisdiction when
the action can be maintained only on that of another.
In a suit for personal injuries resulting in the death of plaintiff's intestate, plaintiff sued an interstate carrier on two counts, one for
pecuniary loss to next of kin and the other for injury and pain sustained by the intestate before death. There was a recovery on both
counts which the Supreme Court of the State sustained on the
ground that the Employers' Liability Act was only supplementary
and the judgment could be upheld under the state law. Held error
and that:
In a suit for personal injuries against an interstate railway carrier, plaintiff, not defendant, has the election how the suit shall be
brought.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act supersedes state laws in
the matters with which it deals, including liability of carriers while
engaged in commerce between the States for defects of cars.
In case of death of an injured employ6, the only action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908 is one for the benefit of
the next of kin; there can be no recovery for the pain suffered before death.
The Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 saves the rights of
the injured emplqy6 but allows only one recovery; the act as amended

