OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

228 U. S.

WOOD v. CHESBOROUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 257.

Argued April 24, 25, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

If the judgment of the state court rests on Federal and non-Federal
grounds, and the latter be sufficient to support 'it, there can be no
review by this court. Preston v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 447.
The application of laches and the statute of limitation does not present
a Federal question.
This court can only review findings of fact by the state court to the
extent necessary to determine whether, there being no evidence to
support them, a Federal right has been denied by them, or where
conclusions of law as to a Federal right and questions of fact are so
intermingled as to make such review necessary for the purpose of
passing on the Federal question. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
540.
The highest court of the State having held, following its former decisions on the same subject, that the plaintiff's cause f action was
barred by laches and res judicata, the judgment rests on non-Federal
grounds sufficient to sustain it.
This court will not review the judgment of the highest state court in
accepting its former decisions as determining the law of the State
and give a different interpretation of that law. To do so would give
this court power to review all judgments of state courts where
Federal questions are set up and to substitute its judgment for that
of the state courts as to state laws.
Writ of error to review 95 Mississippi, 63, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review a judgment of the state court when the same
rests on non-Federal as well as Federal grounds, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Duane E. Fox and Mr. Frank Boughton Fox, with
whom Mr. Robert E. Bunker was on the brief, for plaintiffs

in error.

WOOD v. CHESBOROUGH.

228 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. T. M. Miller for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit concerns the title to certain lands in the
State of Mississippi. There was an original and an
amended bill. The original bill was one to quiet title
simply. An answer was filed to it which, among other
defenses, set up the decree, hereafter referred to, and
adverse possession under the decree. Other defendants
were brought in and an amended bill filed. The bills
allege the following: Plaintiffs derive title through patent
to the State under the Swamp Land Act of Sept. 28, 1850,
9 Stat. 519, c. 84, and patent from the State to the Pearl
River Improvement and Navigation Company in 1871,
certain conveyances on account of a sale for taxes, and an
act of the legislature of the State approved April 19, 1873,
by which, it is alleged, all the acts, deeds and proceedings
of the Pearl River Improvement and Navigation Company
were ratified, approved and confirmed.
On the fourteenth of October, 1891, the defendant, the
Southern Pine Company, brought a suit making three
of the plaintiffs in this suit defendants, in which it was
alleged, among other things, that the company was the
owner of the lands described and that the plaintiffs herein
asserted title thereto and prayed that it be cancelled, as it
cast a cloud upon the title of the company. The plaintiffs
(defendants in that suit) made their answer a cross-bill
and prayed that the title of the Southern Pine Company
be cancelled as a cloud on their title.
Plaintiffs employed one E. E. Baldwin, who was then
and for many years thereafter engaged in the practice of
the law at Jackson, Mississippi, to conduct the suit for
them. By virtue of his employment he appeared at the
November term of court in 1891 and at each subsequent
VOL. ccxxviii--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

term until the July term, 1895. During that time nothing
was done in the case. Baldwin was paid to conduct the
suit from its inception to its termination, but, unknown to
plaintiffs, early in October, 1895, he was afflicted with a
severe stroke of paralysis and another in May, 1896, and
from that time plaintiffs were informed and believed that
he became mentally and physically incapacitated from
looking after his engagements.
At the July term, 1896, while plaintiffs were absent
from the State, they being non-residents, and while
Baldwin, their counsel, was incapacitated and not cognizant of what was going on, the Southern Pine Company set
down the case for final hearing, and at its request a decree
was rendered cancelling plaintiffs' title to the lands as a
cloud upon that of the Southern Pine Company. The
record was made part of the bill. Neither of the plaintiffs
had any knowledge or information of the rendition of the
decree nor of the incapacity of their counsel until the
latter part of the year 1900 or the first of the year 1901,
when they began to take steps to assert their rights in the
premises.
Plaintiffs allege that under the circumstances the decree
should be set aside and held to be absolutely void. And it
is alleged that while the suit was pending the Southern
Pine Company conveyed the lands to the defendant,
A. M. Chesborough, who conveyed undivided interests
therein to other defendants, and that they claim title to
the lands by virtue of the conveyances and the decree in
favor of the Southern Pine Company.
There were demurrers to the bills, which were overruled, and defendants answered. The answer denied the
validity of the acts of 1871 and 1873, under which plaintiffs claimed, and the validity of the title asserted through
them; admitted that the Southern Pine Company brought
suit as alleged by plaintiffs and that a decree was rendered
therein and averred that the latter was res judicata;

WOOD v. CHESBOROUGH.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alleged the belief that Baldwin, plaintiff's counsel, abandoned the defense of that suit for the reason that the
Supreme Court of Mississippi had decided in the case of
Hardy v. Hartman, 65 Mississippi, 504, and the United
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Mississippi,
in Bradford v. Hall, that the patents issued to the Pearl
River Improvement and Navigation Company were null
and void and no defense could have been interposed to the
suit. To the amended bill as a bill of review defendants
pleaded the statute of limitation of two years and laches.
Testimony was submitted and there was an agreed
statement of facts. A decree was entered dismissing the
original and amended bills. It was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 95 Mississippi, 63.
The Supreme Court rested its decision entirely upon
the decree rendered in the suit of the Southern Pine Company, and, stating the facts, said that the Southern Pine
Company claimed by virtue of patents issued by the State
subsequent to 1871, and plaintiffs (defendants in that suit)
claimed under the Pearl River Improvement and Navigation Company act of 1871, dealt with in the case of Hardy
v. Hartman, 65 Mississippi, 504. The case, the court
further said, was continued from term to term and was
finally submitted upon the pleadings, certain exhibits
and documentary evidence, and a decree'rendered for the
company confirming its title and cancelling that of the
defendants. The decree was not appealed from within
the two years allowed by law for taking appeals. In 1902,
six years after the rendition of the decree, plaintiffs filed
their original bill. Upon hearing and being met by a plea
of res judicata, they filed an amended bill seeking to have
the decree set aside because their attorney was too ill to
give the case proper attention. This illness the court,
however, said came to the knowledge of plaintiffs three
and one-half years before it was sought to set aside the
decree.. "In this state of facts," the court continued,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

"there is no escape from the authority of Brooks v. Spann,
63 Mississippi, 198, and an attentive examination of that
case will show that it can make no difference whether the
amended bill is or is not technically a bill of review. Furthermore, we do not think there is such diligence shown
by appellants in this case as would entitle them to vacate
the former decree even though no statute of limitationb
barred the way. We cannot s- e our way clear to go further than this and decide the other important and interesting questions presented since the action of the court
in upholding the plea of res judicata disposes of the case."
-Itwill be observed that the trial court based its decision
upon the effect of the decree in favor of the Southern Pine
Company as an adjudication of the issues and that the
Supreme Court rested its decision mainly upon the statute
of limitations and laches.:
A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that the case
was decided upon non-Federal questions sufficient to sustain the judgment. The motion is resisted by plaintiffs.
They contend that the ground urged for its support does
not apply because they "consistently pleaded and continually urged constitutional immunities" and that the
jurisdiction of this court "cannot be ousted by mere action
of the state court in ignoring and refusing to consider such
constitutional questions," by assuming that its decision
on a point of local law is decisive of constitutional questions; "particularly when the decision of the points of
general and local law necessarily include a consideration
of the constitutional immunities." An elaborate argument
is submitted to establish these contentions. The foundation of it is that Federal questions were essentially involved and their decision was evaded by the Supreme
Court. These questions arose, it is contended, by the
impairment of the contract constituted by the acts of
1871 and 1873, under which plaintiffs claim title, by the
repeal of those acts by the legislature of the State and the

WOOD v. CHESBOROUGH.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cancellation of the titles founded upon them in the hands
of bona fide transferees and by executive action pursuant
to the repealing acts granting the lands to others. Such
action, it is contended, "impaired the obligation of contracts by legislative enactment and deprived the plaintiffs
of property without due process of law."
The contention undoubtedly presents a Federal question, and, on account of it, it is said that we may review
the local questions on which, we have seen, the Supreme
Court of the State based its decision. It is, however,
argued that "if the pleadings or proceedings in the state
court present or disclose the assertion of a Federal right or
constitutional immunity, this court has jurisdiction to
review the decision of the state court, even. though that
decision is based entirely upon the questions of local law,
and the decision of this court may decide those questions
only." This is, in effect, saying that in all cases if there
be local and Federal questions we may pass upon both and
reverse the state court upon both. And yet it is well
established 'that if there be Federal and non-Federal
grounds, and the latter be sufficient to support the judgment of the state court, there can be no review by this
court. And certainly the application of laches and the
statute of limitations does not present a Federal question.
Gaar, Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468; Preston v.
Chicago, 226 U. S. 447, 450.
Plaintiffs, however, advance their contention with confidence and attempt to support- it by a citation of cases.
We need not review them all. They do not impugn the
doctrine that there may be a non-Federal question decided broad enough to support the state court's decision
which we are without power to review, though there may
also be Federal questions in the case. They only hold that
the sufficiency of the Federal right set up cannot be evaded
if necessary to the determination of the case, and, it may
be admitted, that of such necessity this court must in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

each instance decide. Hunitington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657,
is an example,' and also Cresswill v. Knights of Pythias,
225 U. S. 246, and Kansas City Southern Railroad Co. v.
Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540, is an illustration of the doctrine and
its explanation. In Cresswill v. Knights of Pythias it is
decided that this court will review the finding of facts by
a state court (a) where the Federal right was denied as a
result of them and there is no evidence to support them, a
question of law hence resulting for decision; and (b) where
a conclusion of law as to a Federal right and finding of fact
are so intermingled as to cause it to be necessary, for the
purpose of passing on the Federal question, to analyze
and dissect the facts. To the extent necessary to do so
the power exists as a necessary incident to a decision upon
the claim of denial of the Federal right.
Neither condition exists in the case at bar. It comes,
instead, under the principle of Chapman v. Goodnow.
There the Federal question alleged to have been involved
in a former decree, and to which due faith and credit under
the Constitution of the Tjnited States, it was insisted,
should have been accorded, was held to be superseded by
a new promise. So in the case at bar. The rights of plaintiffs based on the act of 1871, under which the patent to
the Pearl River Improvement and Navigation Company
was issued, and the confirmatory act of 1873 were determined in the suit of the Southern Pine Company against
certain of the plaintiffs and through whom title is deraigned. That decree stood as an obstruction to the assertion of plaintiffs' title. They attacked it in their amended
bill and sought to have it reviewed and set aside. The
trial court denied the prayer of the bill and held the decree
res judicata. The Supreme Court decided that the statute
of limitations of the State precluded the relief sought, and
for the decision cited Brooks v. Spann, 63 Mississippi, 198.
The court further decided that "even though no statute

WOOD v. CHESBOROUGH.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of limitations barred the way" there was no "such diligence shown by plaintiffs to entitle them to vacate the
former decree."
In Brooks v. Spann, to avert the effects of a plea of res
judicata against the cause of action set up, an amendment
was made which asserted not only the original grounds of
recovery but also averred that the suit, the decree of
which was so pleaded, was instituted and prosecuted without the consent, knowledge or procurement of the party
against whom it was rendered. A demurrer to the bill set
up, among other grounds, the statute of limitations of the
State. Commenting on the decree, the court said that it
presented, if valid, an insurmountable obstacle to the suit;
it had to be attacked and nullified, or all controversy over
its subject matter was by it forever foreclosed. Holding
that the suit was barred by the statute of limitations, the
court said: "There is no statute of limitations applicable
by its terms to the right to annul the decree, but in the
absence of such statute the court will adopt that one which
is applicable to analogous rights. By sections 2680 and
2681 of the Code of 1880 the time in which bills of review
and appeals may be prosecuted is limited to two years,
and by section 2075 a like limitation is imposed upon the
rights to surcharge and falsify the accounts of executors,
administrators and guardians. It thus appears that for
errors of law or fact, in the classes of cases named in these
statutes, a uniform limitation of two years has beeri declared, and within such time, we think, persons having
notice of decrees affecting their rights, which for fraud or
other sufficient reasons should be vacated by the courts,
ought to take action, failing in which, relief should be
denied. Plymouth v. Russell Mills, 7 Allen, 438; Evans v.
Bacon, 99 Massachusetts, 213; Gordon, Admr., v. Ross,
63 Alabama, 363."
The Supreme Court, in the case at bar, accepted this
decision as determining the.law of the State, and we cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

review its judgment and give a different interpretation
of that law. That case and this have many features of
resemblance. The suit and decree pleaded in that case
was a suit and decree in the state court. The suit at bar
was commenced in the state court, and the decree pleaded
and which is sought to be set aside was rendered in the
same court. It was subject, therefore, to the local procedure and local laws. If we should assert a power of
review in such case we could exercise like power in all
cases where Federal questions are set up and substitute
our judgment for the judgment of the state courts as to
the state laws.
We may say, in conclusion, that there are many cases
illustrating the power of the States over the pleadings and
practice in their courts and the right to prescribe within
what time and upon what conditions suits can be commenced and maintained. Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co.
v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408; Brinkmeier v. Missouri Pacific
Railway Co., 224 U. S. 268.
The motion to dismiss must be, and it is, granted.
Dismissed.

CHICAGO

DOCK

AND

CANAL

COMPANY

v.

FRALEY, AS ADMINISTRATRIX OF CLAFFY.
LRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 286.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Poliee legislation cannot be judged by abstract or theoretical comparisons, but it must be presumed to have been induced by actual
experience. Even if disputable or crude it may not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment.
One who is not discriminated against cannot attack a police statute of
the State because it does not go farther; and if what it enjoins of

