PICO v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

to the execution of the trusts which the testator had seen
fit to connect with the administration of his will." Gould
v. Mather, 104 Massachusetts, 283, 286; Tobias v. Ketchum,
32 N. Y. 319. "For where the duties imposed upon the
executors are active and render the possession of the estate
convenient and reasonably necessary, they will be deemed
trustees for the performance of those duties to the same
extent as though declared so to be in the most explicit
terms." Ward v. Ward, 105 N. Y. 68; Toronto Trust Co.
v. Chicago &c. R. R., 123 N. Y. 37, 44; Gray v. Lynch., 8
Gill, 404, 423; Weimar v. Fath, 43 N. J. L. 1.
The duties imposed by the will continued after the death
of Thomas 0. Wilson and the power to sell was lawfully
exercised by Adelaide Wilson, surviving executrix, when
she executed the deed to Huyck, the predecessor in title
of the plaintiff. The judgment is

Affirmed.

PICO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 319.

Argued February 25, 26, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Under art. 403, Philippine Penal Code, a person can be guilty of murder
with alevosia (treachery) although, there may have been no specific
intent to kill; and so held that one who had his victim bound and
then caused him to be violently beaten with an instrument likely
to cause death was guilty of murder with alevosia even though he
did not specifically intend that death should result.
Under the Philippine Penal Code, as at common law, men are presumed
to intend the natural consequences of their acts.
An objection that a complaint charging murder with alevosia by beating a person to death is defective because it did not allege all the
details proved as to the fact that the victim had been bound so as
VOL. ccxXvIII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

228 U. S.

to make defense impossible, should be made in the lower court where
amendments are possible.. It comes too late when made in this
court for the first time.
The conviction by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands for
murder-with alevosia of one who had caused his victim to be bound
and then beaten with an instrument likely to cause death, and a
sentence of 17 years, 4 months and 1 day of cadena temporal and
the accessories, and an indemnity to the heirs of his victim of 1,000
pesos, being a modification of the sentence of the Court of First
Instance of cadena temporal for life and accessories and indequnity,
sustained by this court as being in accordance with the evidence,
without error of law and not in any mannerdepriving the defendant
of his liberty without due process of law.
15 Phil. Rep. 549, affirmed.

TiE facts, which involve the validity of a conviction

and sentence for murder in the Philippine Islands, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clement L. Bouv6 for the plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of the Philippines erred in convicting the accused of the crime of murder since the complaint
is so formed that it will not support a sentence for murder
under the Spanish law. See article 403, Penal Code,
Philippine Islands.
As to what "killing a person with alevosia" means, see
par. 2, art. 10, Penal Code.
The complaint contains no allegation of such treacherous
-intent as is necessary to constitute the charge of murder
with alevosia. See Viada Codigo Penal, vol. III, pp. 24-25.
The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
convicting plaintiff in error of murder with treachery,
finding as it did as a matter of fact that he did not intend
to kill the deceased.
The intent to kill is, under the Spanish law as it is in
our own, of the very essence of the crime of murder.
Sent., June 13, 1887; Viada Codigo Penal, vol. III, 647;
United States v. Dasilva, 14 Phil. Rep. 413; United States

PICO v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

v. Mercoleta, 17 Phil. Rep. 317; United States v. Balagtas,
19 Phil. Rep. 164.
The defenceless situation of the victim, coupled with
the intent to kill, does not make the killing murder.
The Supreme Court erred in affirming the finding of the
court below that plaintiff in error killed the deceased, in
that there is no evidence as a matter of law that deceased
died as the result of blows inflicted by plaintiff in error.
Wiborg v. United States, 163 U. S. 652; Clyatt v. United
States, 197 U. S. 207, 222; Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S.
442.
The testimony, both expert and non-expert,' does not
sustain the conviction.
The punishment imposed upon plaintiff in error of
seventeen years, four months and one day of cadena
temporal and the accessory penalties provided by law,
constitutes a cruel and unusual punishment within the
Eighth Amendment as incorporated into the Philippine
Bill of Rights. Weeme v. United States, 217 U. S. 349, 382.
Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt, with whom Mr. Loring C.
Christie was on the brief, for the United States:
The complaint is sufficient to support a sentence for
murder under the Spanish law. Philippine Penal Code,
art. 403.
The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands had the
right to modify the judgment of the trial court and to
impose upon the defendant the modified sentence. Philippine Penal Code, art. 403; Ker & Co. v. Couden, 223 U. S.
268, 279.
The evidence sustained the finding that the Chinaman
died as the result of the blows inflicted by appellant.
The sentence imposed is not a cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Philippine Bill of Rights. The
punishment was not too great for the crime of murder.
Weems v. United States, 217 U. S. 349, does not control, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

in that case the punishment was disproportionate to the
trifling crime involved. The requirement of "painful"
labor becomes unobjectionable when properly translateda fact which did not appear in the Weems Case.
The provision for carrying chains and for surveillance for
life were annulled upon the American occupation of the
Philippines and are no longer imposed. Chicago & Pac.
Ry. Co. v. McGlinn, 114 U. S. 542; Downes v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 244, 298; Forbes v. Chuoco Tiaco, 16 Phil. Rep. 534,
592; Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, 565; Ortega
v. Lara, 202 U. S. 339; Sanchez v. United States, 216 U. S.
167; Vilas v. Manila, 220 U. S. 345, 357; Davis on International Law (1903 ed.), 348; Halleck on International Law
(3d ed.), 486-490; Risley, Law of War, 136; Instructions
of President McKinley to the Philippine Commission,
April 7, 1900.
The punishment in this case is in fact fairly proportioned
to the crime committed.
The objectionable portions of the punishment may be
held invalid without affecting the balance of the punishment.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
Juan Pico, claiming the right as Patrol to arrest suspicious persons in the Hacienda of Malun6, within the
municipality of Ilagan, Province of Isabela, Philippine
Islands, on March 1, 1909, entered the house of Eugenio
Castellanes in the night time and inquired if there was
any one else on the premises. He was told that there was
a Chinaman asleep in the next room, .and, going there
with several attendants, ordered him to get up. Receiving no answer, Pico struck him with a gun. The Chinaman arose and seized the gan as Pico again attempted to
strike him. After some altercation, he was overpowered,
and Pico ordered his attendants to bind him. .This they
did, putting a rope around his neck, tying his arms behind

PICO v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

his back, and, in this condition, he was ordered out of
the house for the purpose of being taken to the nearby
Hacienda, of which Pico was manager. Whether through
unwillingness or physical inability resulting from the blow
previously inflicted, does not clearly appear, but the
Chinaman refused to walk and Pico again struck him
several times with the gun. Partly dragged and partly
carried, the Chinaman was in a state of collapse when
he reached the Hacienda, where, a few hours later, he
died. The next morning at 8 o'clock he was buried,-a
medical employ6 on the estate giving a certificate that
he had died of heart failure. The suspicion of the authorities having been aroused the body was disinterred, and,
as it exhibited signs of external violence, Pico and two
of his attendants were arrested, Pico being charged "with
the crime of murder, with the qualifying circumstance
of alevosia (treachery) as defined and penalized in § 403
of the Penal Code,' in that

.

.

.

he feloniously or-

dered his two servants to seize and tie the Chinaman,
Go-Siengco, and thus tied and unable to defend himself
the said Pico, with the intention of killing the said Chinaman, struck him several blows with a shotgun,, as the
result of which blows the Chinaman subsequently died."
1

Art. 403. The crime of murder is committed by any person who,
not falling within the terms of the, next preceding article [relating to
Parricide], shall kill another under any of the following circumstances:
1. With alevosia.
2. For a price or promise of reward.
3. By means of inundation, fire, or poison.
4. With evident premeditation.
5. With cruelty by deliberately and inhumanly increasing the suffering of the offended party.
Art. 10, § 2. There is treachery (alevosia) when the offender commits any of the crimes against the person, employing means, methods,
or forms in the execution thereof which tend directly and specially to
insure its execution without risk to himself arising from the defense
which the offended party might make.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The evidence for the Government was direct and positive and left no reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the
defendant, unless the witnesses for the prosecution were
unworthy of belief. Their credibility, though attacked,
was sustained by the trial judge, who found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to cadena temporal, to be
confined in the Bilibid Prison for the term of his natural
life, with accessories named in Art. 54 of the Code, and
to pay the heirs of the Chinaman 1,000 pesos. A motion
for a new trial was overruled and on appeal the Supreme
Court stated that only a question of fact was involved,
and that the testimony for the Government, being direct
and without elements of untruth, fully supported the
findings of the trial court:
"We have only one criticism of the judgment below.
We are convinced that the court, in imposing the penalty,
should have taken into consideration in favor of the accused the extenuating circumstances described in Article 9,
subdivision 3, of the Penal Code, namely, that 'the delinquent had no intention of committing so grave an injury
as that which he inflicted.' There not having been
present any aggravating circumstance, the penalty should
have been imposed in its minimum degree." (15 Phil.
Rep. 551.)
1. It is claimed that this finding was in legal effect an
acquittal, and several decisions of the Supreme Court
of Spain are cited to support the argument that there
can be no "murder with alevosia" unless there was a
specific intent to kill the person bound. We cannot so
construe the Philippine Code. Under it the killing of a
human being is parricide, murder or homicide, depending,
not always on the intent, but upon the relation of the
parties and the circumstances under which and the means
by which life was taken. On the trial of a charge of
"murder with premeditation," there might be call for
proof of a specific intent, but even then that could usually

PICO v. UNITED STATES.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be established only by external circumstances capable
of proof. But in the case of murder with cruelty or with
alevosia, the intent would be immaterial, although the
accused might claim that he thought that the cruelty
would not cause death or that the beating would punish
and not destroy the person who was bound. Under the
Penal Code of the Philippines, as at common law, men
are presumed to intend the natural consequences of their
act and cannot escape punishment for taking life on the
claim that they had not intended or expected that such
consequence would result from what they purposely did.
In this case Pico was not charged with "murder with
evident premeditation." As the Chinaman was, at the
time, bound and defenseless, Pico was guilty of "murder
with the aggravating circumstance of alevosia," punishable by the minimum, medium or maximum penalty,
depending on the presence or absence of mitigating or
aggravating circumstances, as defined by the Code,'
which permitted effect to be given to the absence of a
specific intent by a mitigation of the punishment. This
we understand to be the effect of the decision of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, and not, as
claimed, an acquittal of the charge on which Pico was
tried. United States v. Brobst, 14 Phil. Rep. 310; United
States v. Candelaria,2 Phil. Rep. 104.
The decisions cited by plaintiff in error do not require a
reversal, for none of them relate to a case like this, where
the accused, having himself ordered his victim to be
bound, consciously, intentionally and repeatedly beat
him with an instrument likely to produce death.
2. It was also contended that the complaint was defective in failing to allege that the Chinaman had been tied
IArt. 78. Aggravating circumstances which in themselves constitute a crime specially punishable by law or which are included by the
law in defining a crime and prescribing the penalty therefor shall not
be taken into account for the purpose of increasing the penalty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

for the purpose of making defense impossible and so that
he might be killed without risk to the accused. This
objection comes too late. It was not made in the Supreme
Court nor in the trial court, where amendments could
have been made even if necessary under the liberal system
of criminal pleading authorized by §§ 6, 8, 9, and 10 of the
Appendix to the Penal Code of the Philippine Islands.
3. Pico was sentenced by the Supreme Court to 17 ydars,
4 months and 1 day of cadena temporal, to the accessories provided by law and to indemnify the heirs of the
deceased by the payment of 1,000 pesos. In the record
there is an assignment of error that this was cruel andunusual punishment (Weems v. United States, 217 U. S.
349), but on the argument the contention was abandoned
in open court, and the point will therefore not be considered. In other assignments complaint was made that
Pico was deprived of his liberty without due process of
law,-because the evidence was insufficient to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that the Chinaman died as a
result of the blows inflicted by Pico; because the Supreme
Court refused to pass upon the credibility of witnesses
in the trial court; because he was refused a new trial on
the ground of newly discovered evidence, and because one
of the witnesses admitted to have given false testimony.
We find no error of law. The evidence fully sustained
the conviction, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

