OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Parties.

228 U. S.

for a penalty, nor for a forfeiture, but for injury to property actually accomplished before the repeal of the law
under which the street was graded which required compensation to ie made. The right to compensation was
a vested property right.
The judgments must be reversed and the cases remandedfor
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
TEMPLE IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
READING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 198, 206, 217.

Motions to modify decree submitted January 28,
1913.-Decided April 7,1913.

The mandate in this case modified as to certain of the independent
companies having some of the sixty-five per cent contracts referred to
in the opinion, 226 U. S. 324.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Adelbert Moot for the Hillside Coal & Iron Company.
Mr. William S. Jenney and Mr. John G. Johnson for the
Delaware, Lackawanna & WesterT Railroad Company.
Mr. Gilbert Collins and Mr. William H. Corbin for the
New York, Susquehanna & Western Coal Company.

UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
228 U. S.

159

Order Modifying Mandate.

Mr. George F. Brownell for the Pennsylvania Coal Company.
Mr. Frank H. Platt for the Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company.
Mr. Attorney General Wickersham, Mr. James C. McReynolds and Mr. G. Carroll Todd for the United States.
The following order was entered:
This cause came on again to be heard upon five several
petitions filed by the Pennsylvania Coal Company, The
Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company, The New York, Susquehanna and Western Coal Company, Hillside Coal &
Iron Company, and the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
Railroad Company, parties to the cause as alleged holders
of sixty-five per cent. coal contracts, praying that the
direction in the opinion heretofore filed that the cause
should be remanded with direction to enter a decree
cancelling each and every of the sixty-five per cent. contracts referred to in the pleadings held by any of the
parties to the cause, and for a modification of the mandate
so as to exclude from cancellation the five several contracts
described and referred to in the said five separate petitions.
And it appearing that the United States, by its Attorney
General, has answered the several petitions, and that in
respect to that of the Pennsylvania Coal Company assents
to the petition and consents that such modification be
made as to dismiss the bill in so far as it is thereby sought
to cancel the contract between the Pennsylvania Coal
Company and the Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company of
March 1, 1902, referred to in the petition of the Pennsylvania Coal Company, upon the concession that the agreement "is substantially different from the series of agreements known as the sixty-five per cent. contracts adjudged
unlawful by this court," it is accordingly so ordered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Order Modifying Mandate.

228 U. S.

As to the applications of the four other petitioners
named above for like relief, the United States denies and
contests the right of each, contending that in substance
and principle the facts in respect of each of the contracts
in respect of which relief is sought, are not similar to the
contract between the Pennsylvania Coal Company and
the Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company, but fall within the
general series of the sixty-five per cent. contracts condemned bythe judgment of this court.
Upon this issue the transcript is confusing and the
briefs inadequate. The court therefore deems it wise in
the exercise of its judgment to decline any determination
of the question upon the present record. It is therefore
ordered that the mandate of this court be so modified as
to exclude from the direction to cancel the sixty-five per
cent. contracts referred to in the pleadings the said contracts mentioned in the four petitions, namely, that of the
Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company, the New York, Susquehanna & Western Coal Co., Hillside Coal & Iron Company, and the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad
Company, and that the cause, so far as concerns the contracts of the said petitioners, be remanded to the District
Court with direction to hear and determine the merits as
presented by said petitioners, and make such decree as
law and justice require.

Per MR. JusTcE LURTON.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JusncE HUGHES and MR.
JusTTcE PITNEY did not participate in the original case,

nor in the making of this order.

