OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

that it should be remanded to the state court. This decision was to the effect that the court, having reached the
conclusion, in the exercise of jurisdiction, that an indispensable party was not upon the record, ordered a dismissal of the action. This did not involve a decision of
the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal tribunal.
We therefore are of the opinion that in no aspect in
which the jurisdictional question was presented to this
court is it reviewable by a direct appeal to this court from
the Circuit Court.
The present appeal is therefore dismissed.

ETTOR v. CITY OF TACOMA.
HOWARD v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF.
WASHINGTON.

Nos. 68, 69. Argued December 6, 1912.-Decided April 7, 1913.
In the absence of legislation requiring compensation to be made for
damages to abutting owners by change of grade of street, the municipality, being an agent of the State and exercising a governmental
power, is not liable for consequential injuries provided it keep within
the street and use reasonable care and skill in doing the work.
Under the statutes of the State of Washington as construed by the
courts of that State this general rule was superseded by legislation
which required municipalities to compensate for consequential
damages.
A municipality cannot defend a suit for consequential damages on
the ground that as the agent of the State it is immune, when its
only authority to act is that given by the State coupled with an
obligation to make compensation.
A state statute giving compensation for consequential damages caused by

ETTOR v. TACOMA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

change of grades of streets does not merely provide a remedy but
creates a property right; to repeal such a statute so as to affect rights
actually obtained thereunder is a deprivation of property without
due process of law as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statute of Washington repealing the former statute which gave a
right to consequential damages from change of grade, as construed
by the state courts as destroying rights to compensation which had
accrued while the earlier act was in effect, amounts to a deprivation
of property without due process of law.
Where no private rights have vested, a statute giving benefits under
certain conditions may be repealed without violating the contract
or due process provisions of the Federal Constitution, but the case is
different when the right to compensation has actually accrued. Salt
Co. v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373, and Wisconsin &c. Railway v.
Powers, 191 U. S. 375, distinguished.
57 Washington, 50, 698 reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Washington in
regard to damages for changing grade of streets, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Stanton Warburton, with whom Mr. John M. Boyle,
Mr. E. B. Brockway and Mr. C. M.

Boyle were on the

brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Heman H. Field, with whom Mr. George W. Korte

and Mr. T. L. Stiles were on the brief, for defendant in

error.
MR. JUSTICE LuRTON delivered the opinion of the court.
These were actions to recover for damage inflicted upon

abutting property in consequence of an original street
grading done by the railroad company under authority
and direction of the city of Tacoma.
At the time the grading was done there was in force an

act of the Washington legislature which required the city

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

to make compensation for cofisequential damages due to
an original street grading. pending these suits and while
they were actually being heard, the provision of the act
referred to which expressly required the city to provide
for or make compensation for all such damage, was
amended so as to provide that the act should not apply to
the original grading of any street. Laws of Washington,
1907, c. 153, p. 316, and Laws of 1909, c. 80, p. 151. When
the attention of the trial court was called to this repealing
act, it directed a verdict for the city upon the theory that
the right of action was statutory and fell with the statute,
there being no saving clause. This judgment, upon the
same ground, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State.
For the plaintiffs in error the contention shortly stated
is, that the act of 1907 was the sole legislative authority
of the city for making the cuts and fills in front of their
premises upon the public street, and that that act expressly
required the city to make provision for compensating an
owner so damaged; and that their right to such compensation having accrued while the act was in force cannot be
destroyed by subsequent legislation without a violation
of the rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the absence of legislation requiring compensation
for such damage the general rule of law is that a municipality in making, grading and improving streets is the
agent of the State, exercising in the performance of such
work a governmental power, and is not liable for consequential injuries to property abutting, if it keep within
'the street and use reasonable care and skill in doing the
work. 4 Dillon Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., §§ 1674,
1677; Smith v. Corporation of Washington, 20 How. 135;
TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, 641; Humes
v. Knoxville, 1 Humph. (Tenn.) 403. This was the general
law as announced by the Supreme Court of Washington
in its first opinion in the case of Fletcher v. City of Seattle,'

ETTOR v. TACOMA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

43 Washington, 627, and is the general law of the State
as announced by the court's opinion in the instant case.
Where the benefits equalled the injury, there was, of
course, no injustice in the application of the general rule.
But where .the damage exceeded the benefits there was
an apparent injustice in casting upon such an owner an
undue share of the cost of an improvement for the public
benefit. This was recognized in Transportation Co. v.
Chicago, supra, where municipal non-liability was said to
be due to the fact that in improving its highways the
municipality was but the agent of the State, and that as
the State could not be sued, its agents were equally immune for improvements authorized by the law of the
State, without the consent of the State. But this equity
which exists when the benefits are less than the damage
affords a strong foundation for legislation requiring compensation in such circumstances. This consideration
doubtless led to the legislation of the State requiring
compensation for such damage, under which the rights
of the plaintiffs in error are asserted.
Whatever may have been the authority of the City of
Tacoma under its charter or the general law of the State
to take or damage property for the purpose of opening,
making, improving or grading its public streets, and its
immunity from liability for consequential damages in
making an original grading, prior to the legislation found
in the two acts of 1893 and 1907, Laws of Washington,
1893, c. 84, p. 189, and Laws of 1907, p. 316, it is plain
that the acts in question cover the whole subject of its
authority and its liability for taking private property or
"damaging" it, in either making, grading or regrading
its public streets. The two acts referred to are identical
in every essential. The latter is a mere reenactment of
the first, by which its provisions are extended to a larger
class of municipal corporations.
The act of 1893 was construed and applied by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Supreme Court of the State in Fletcher v. Seattle, 43 Washington, 627. The action was by the owner of premises
which had sustained damage while the act was in force,
in consequence of an original grading. He recovered a
judgment, which, upon a first hearing, was reversed by
the Supreme Court, that court holding that consequential
damages arising from an original grading when the work
had been done with due care, was neither a taking nor a
damaging of private property within the meaning of the
constitution of the State requiring compensation for
taking or damaging private property for public purposes.
But, upon a rehearing, the attention of the court was for
the first time called to the act of 1893, and the contention
advanced that the only authority of the city to take or
damage the property of the plaintiff for the purpose of
grading the street was under that act, and that, by its
terms, the city was required to make compensation for
damage arising from an original grading. The construction of that act upon facts like those in the present case
was thereby directly involved. It was urged that the
forty-seventh section did not require compensation for
consequential damages, but in answer to this, the court
said (p. 633):
"We think the word 'damages' used in the section (the
47th) has the same significance and meaning that it has
in other sections of the same act, and that it was used in
its broad sense and includes consequential damages. We
see no reason why this provision of the law should be segregated from the other provisions, and a different construction placed upon it, or why the provisions of the act in
relation to the assessment of the damages should not
apply to it as it does to the other sections, and if it does
the right of compensation is equally granted.
"It was said that the title of the act shows that it is
legislation concerning the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, but we think the title is sufficient to cover the

ETTOR v. TACOMA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

section objected to equally as well as the other sections
in the act, and it was evidently the intention of the legislature to pass an act covering the whole subject of opening streets, and of providing methods of making compensation for damages where damages followed. The title
not only provides for the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, but, also, the taking and damaging of land and
property for public purposes, and section 1 of the act
empowers the city to condemn and also empowers it to
damage any land or other property for the purpose of
opening streets. Section 2 says, when the corporation
authorities of any such city shall desire to condemn land
or other property or damage the same for any purpose
authorized by this act sudh city shall provide, etc. In
this case the city had the power to damage respondents'
land, and it was found that it did damage it and it damaged
it in a way that it was authorized by § 47 of this act;
namely, by establishing a grade on the street upon which
their property abutted. And this idea is manifested
throughout the act. That the section does not contemplate such damages as are caused by an encroachment
or actual trespass upon the lands of the owner, as is suggested by the appellant, is manifest from the language
of the section itself which evidently contemplates that
the work will be upon the street and not upon the abutting
property.
"We are unable to find any more ambiguity in this
section than in any other provision of the act, and under
its provisions the plaintiffs are entitled to such damages
as they can show they have suffered. The question of
public policy and expense to the city are questions which
are purely legislative."
The judgment of the lower court was thereupon affirmed.
The opinion so construing the act of 1893 was filed in
September, 1906. In March, 1907, the act of 1893, then
in force, was extended to a larger class of cities and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

enacted, without any change in any material respect, the
first, second and forty-seventh sections being reenacted,
the forty-seventh section becoming in the later act § 48.
While this act of 1907 was in force, the city directed the
grading in question and made or caused the railroad company to make cuts and fills in the street in front of the
premises of the plaintiffs in error which resulted in large
injury to their property. The city did not provide for
compensation for the damage so done by any special
assessment upon the property benefited. This brought
into effect the provision of the second section requiring
the payment of such damage to be made out of the general
funds of the city. Payment not having been made as
required, the plaintiffs in error brought these actions to
recover compensation.
The defense of the city that it was but the agent of the
State in improving the highways of the city, and therefore immune, because the State was immune, vanishes in
the face. of the fact that the State had absolutely coupled
authority in the matter with an obligation to make compensation. The city had no authority save that which
came from the very act which imposed an obligation. It
would seem to need no argument to establish the contention that the obligation to make compensation to these
plaintiffs in error could not be destroyed by subsequent
legislation.
Neither of the acts provided any remedy for the enforcement of the obligation to make compensation. Both provided that the city might by ordinance arrange for the
ascertainment of the damages, and for their collection by
special assessment on the property benefited, or within a
special assessment district. But the plain requirement
of the first and second sections of both acts is that if the
city does not so provide for special assc3sments, that it
should make the compensation out of its general treasury.
The repealing clause of the act of 1909 does not touch the

ETTOR v. TACOMA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

general features of the law beyond the provision that the
forty-eighth section of the act, which extended the obligation of compensation to original gradings, should not
apply to damage arising from such gradings. It is a mis-.
take to say that the act of 1907 gave a remedy where none
existed before. What it did was to impose an obligation
to compensate abutters injured by an original grading,
an obligation which, however meritorious, had no sanction in positive law. The remedy, if the city disregarded
the obligation, was that afforded by the common law for
the breach of any valid contractual or statutory duty.
That was the remedy which was enforced by the Washington court in Fletcher v. City of Seattle, supra.
Statutes concerning renedies are such as relate to the
course and mode of procedure to enforce or defend a
substantive right. Matters which belong to the remedy
are subject to change and alteration, and even repeal,
provided the legislation does not operate to impair a contract or deprive one of a vested property right. If the
changing or repealing statute leaves the parties a substantial remedy, the legislature does not exceed its authority. Rights and remedies shade one into the other so
that it is sometimes difficult to say that a particular act
creates a right or merely gives a remedy. So also a statute,
under the form of taking away or changing a particular
remedy, may take away an existing property right, or
impair'the obligation of a contract. That the state court
has treated the act of 1907 as merely giving a remedy
wjiere none existed before, and the act of 1909 as merely
repealing the remedy so given, is plain.
The court below gave a retrospective effect to the
amendatory and repealing act by holding that the effect
of the repeal was to destroy the right to compensation
which had accrued while the act was in force. The
obligation of the city was fixed. The plaintiffs in error
had a claim which the city was as much under obligation

OCTOBER TERM, 1912..
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

to pay as for the labor employed to do the grading. It
was a claim assignable and enforceable by a common-law
action for a breach of the statutory obligation.
The necessary effect of the repealing act, as construed
and applied by the court below, was to deprive the plaintiffs in error of any remedy to enforce the fixed liability
of the city to make compensation. This was t- deprive
the plaintiffs in error of a right which had vested before
the repealing act, a right which was in every sense a
property right. Nothing remained to be done to complete
the plaintiffs' right to compensation except the ascertainment of the amount of damage to their property. The
right of the plaintiffs in error was fixed by the law in force
when their property was damaged for public purposes,
and the right so vested cannot be defeated by subsequent
legislation. City of Elgin v. Eaton, 83 Illinois, 535;
Healey v. City of New Haven, 49 Connecticut, 394; Harrington v. Berkshire, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 263; People v.
Supervisors, 4 Barb. (N. Y.) 64, are cases arising under
street or ,highway statutes. The principle has been
applied in reference to rights accruing under a variety
of statutes when affected by a subsequent change of the
law: Steamship Company v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Miller
v. Union Mills, 45 Washington, 199; Grey v. Mobile Trade
Co., 55 Alabama, 387; Stephens v. Marshall, 3 Pinney
(Wis.), 203; Gorman v. McArdle, 74 S. C. Rep. (N. Y.)
484; Westervelt v. Gregg, 12 N. Y. 202; Creighton v. Pragg,
21 California, 115; State Trust Company v. Railroad
Company, 115 Fed. Rep. 367.
Certain cases have been cited in support of the action of
the state court, among them Yeaton v. United States,
5 Cranch, 281. But that was a case of a forfeiture to the
United States. The repeal of the statute was held to end
the proceeding, although a sentence had been pronounced
and was pending upon appeal when the act under which
it had been entered was repealed. No private right had

ETTOR v. TACOMA.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vested, and the Government could abandon its own
proceeding if it saw fit at any stage. Another case cited
is Salt Company v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373. For the
purpose of encouraging the manufacture of salt the State
of Michigan, by a general statute addressed to no particular person or corporation, offered a bounty upon salt
produced and exempted from taxation the property engaged in the business. After a time the act was repealed.
The claim was that the exemption constituted a contract,
and that it could not be repealed without impairing the
obligation of the contract. But this court said that the
exemption did not constitute a contract and was nothing
more nor less than a law dictated by public policy for the
encouragement of an industry. So long as the law was
in force the State promised the exemption and bounty,
but there was no pledge that it should not be repealed at
any time. In Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. v. Powers, 191
U. S. 379, 385, 387, the case was said to point out the
distinction between "an exemption in a special charter
and general encouragement to all persons to engage in a
certain enterprise," and the same principle was applied
to an act which provided an exemption to any corporation
building a line of railroad north of certain lines of latitude.
The court held that it was addressed to no one in particular
and constituted a mere announcement of policy not constituting a contract, and was therefore subject to repeal
at any time. The case of Louisiana v. New Orleans, 109
U. S. 285, has been cited. That case merely held that a
judgment against the city under a statute for damage to
private property inflicted by a mob did not constitute a
contract, the obligation of which had been impaired by
the repeal of a statute under which the city might have
been compelled to levy a special tax for its satisfaction.
The case turned upon the distinction between liability
for a tort and liability under a contract.
In the instant case the action is neither for a tort, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Parties.

228 U. S.

for a penalty, nor for a forfeiture, but for injury to property actually accomplished before the repeal of the law
under which the street was graded which required compensation to ie made. The right to compensation was
a vested property right.
The judgments must be reversed and the cases remandedfor
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
TEMPLE IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
READING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 198, 206, 217.

Motions to modify decree submitted January 28,
1913.-Decided April 7,1913.

The mandate in this case modified as to certain of the independent
companies having some of the sixty-five per cent contracts referred to
in the opinion, 226 U. S. 324.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Adelbert Moot for the Hillside Coal & Iron Company.
Mr. William S. Jenney and Mr. John G. Johnson for the
Delaware, Lackawanna & WesterT Railroad Company.
Mr. Gilbert Collins and Mr. William H. Corbin for the
New York, Susquehanna & Western Coal Company.

