UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC GO.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

complainant; otherwise, for the defendant. The railroad
company requested explicit instructions against the recovery by the plaintiff of any sum.
The contentions are the same as in Cram's Case, and

upon the authority of its decision the judgment in this
-ase is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. PACIFIC AND
ARCTIC RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION COMPANY, PACIFIC COAST STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
ALASKA STEAMSHIP COMPANY, CANADIAN
PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
FOR ALASKA, DIVISION NO. 1.
No. 697.

Argued February 26, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

While'under the Interstate Commerce Act a carrier may. select its
through route conneciions, agreements for such connections may
constitute violations of the Anti-trust Act if made not from natural
trade reasons or on account of efficiency, but as a combination and
conspiracy in restraint of interstate trade and for the purpose of
obtaining a monopoly of traffic by refusing to establish routes with
independent connecting carriers.
In. reviewing the decision of the lower'court sustaining a demurrer to
an indictment charging a combination in violation of the Anti-trust
Act, this court is not called upon to consider what the elements of
the plan may be independently, or whether there is or is not a standard of reasonableness which juries may apply, If a criminal violation of the act is charged, the criminal courts have cognizance of it
with power of decision in regard thereto.
A combination made in the United States between earrieis to monopolize certain' transportation partly within and partly without the
United States is within the prohibition of the Anti-trust Act, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

also within the jurisdiction of the criminal and civil law of the United
States even if one of the parties combining be a foreign corporation.
While the United States may not control foreign citizens operating in
foreign territory, it may control them when operating in the United
States in the same manner as it may control citizens of this country.
The purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act is to establish a tribunal
to determine the relation of communities, shippers and carriers, and
their respective rights and obligations dependent upon the act, and
the conduct of carriers is not subject to judicial review in criminal
or civil cases based on alleged violations of the act until submitted
to and passed on by the Commission.
Qure, what the effect is of a finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission in such a case.
Where the -District Court holds that the averments of the indictment
are not sufficient to connect certain defendants with the offense
charged, it construes the indictment and not the statute on which
it is based, and this court has no jurisdiction under the Criminal
Appeals Act to review the decision.
An objection to the demurrer made by certain defendants and sustained as to one count, and not passed on as to other counts which
were struck down by the District Court but sustained by this court,
may be raised in the District Court by such defendants in regard
to such' counts when the case is again before that court.

INDICTMENT for alleged violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act and of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The indictment contains six counts. The first and second counts charge violations of the Anti-trust Law. The
first by the defendants engaging in a combination and
conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce with one
another to eliminate and destroy competition in the business of transportation fi freight and passengers between
various ports in the United States and British Columbia
in the south, and the various cities in the valleys of the
Yukon River and its tributaries, both in British and
American territory, in the north, upon a line of traffic
described, for the purpose and with the intention of monopolizing such trade and commerce The second count
charges the monopolization of trade and commerce in the

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

89)

Statement of the Case.

same business and between the same ports. The manner
of executing the alleged criminal purpose is charged to be
the same in both counts.
The places of the incorporation of the corporate defendants are alleged, and the following facts: The Pacific
Coast Steamship Company and the Alaska Steamship
Company operate respectively lines of steamships as
common carriers of freight and passengers running in
regular route between Seattle, State of Washington, and
Skagway, Alaska. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company is a like carrier and operates a line of steamships
between Vancouver, British Columbia, and Skagway.
During the time, mentioned in the indictment the Pacific
& Arctic Railway & Navigation Company owned and
operated a railroad from tidewater at Skagway to the:
summit of White Pass, a distance of about twenty miles
to the boundary line between Alaska and British Columbia, at which latter point it connected with a railroad
owned and operated by the British Columbia Yukon
Railway Company. The latter road extended from the
summit of White Pass to the east shore of Lake Bennett
and the b'oundary line between British Columbia and
Yukon District of Canada, a distance of about-twentyfive miles, at which point it connected with another railroad, owned and operated by the British Yukon Railway
Company, which extends to White Horse on the headwaters of the Yukon River, in Yukon 'District of Canada.
During all the times mentioned there was a line of steamers
plying upon the Yukon ltlver and the headwaters thereof
between White Horse and Dawson, owned and operated
by the British Yukon Navigation Company. The four
corporations last above mentioned and their stocks and
bonds were owned and controlled by, the same persons
and individuals, and the said three lines of railroads and
their lines of steamers were under one and the same
management and were operated as one continuous line

90

OCTQBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

of common carriers, of freight and passengers between the
towns of Skagway and Dawson and way points under the
name and style of the White Pass and Yukon Route,
referred to as "the railroad" and had the sole and exclusive monopoly of -the transportation business between
Lynn Canal and the navigable waters of the Yukon River.
A general trade and commerce was carried on between
British Columbia and Puget Sound ports and the Yukon
Valley, both in American and British territory, over the
designated routes and to the various places on the routes,
and the shortest and most natural route for such trade
and commerce was, has been, and is by water craft from
said southern ports to Skagway, and thence over Moore's
.Wharf, so called, to the points of destination. Trade and
commerce from White Horse and Dawson to said southern
ports would naturally, when left untrammeled by unlawful interference, move up the Yukon to the headwaters of
that river and thence by the way of said railroad to Skagway, Alaska, thence over said Moore's Wharf, and thence
by steamship or other water craft to the said southern ports.
The North Pacific Wharves & Trading Company was
the owner and in exclusive possession and control of all
of the wharves at Skagway at which steamships or other
,water crafts could take and discharge, or load cargo, that
company having a complete and absolute monopoly of
the wharfage business at Skagway and owning and operating the Moore Wharf, which wharf, by agreement between
the Wharves Company and the railroad, had been made
and was the terminus of the railroad over which all freight
going to or coming from or passing through Skagway had
necessarily to pass. The wharf was operated as a public
wharf. Continuously during the three years immediately
preceding the finding of the indictment the defendants
combined and conspired together to eliminate and destroy competition in the transportation business between
the said southern ports and Skagway, for the purpose and

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

91

Statement of the Case.

with the intention of giving to and 'creating for the Alaska
Steamship Cohnpany, 'the Pacific Coast Steamship Coinpany and the Canadian Pacific Railroad Company a
monopoly of such business, and, to that end, purpose and
intention, entered into, and continuously maintained a
joint traffic arrangement between the railroad and the'
steamship companies, by and through the individual
defendants as officers and agents of the corporate defendants,' pursuant to which arrangement either of the steamship companies could and did bill freight and passengers
through from either of the said southern ports to any point
on the said railway or on said Yukon River or its tributaries along and-over the route of travel and transportation
described, and the riilrodd could and did bill freight and
passengers through from Yukon and other northern points
to said southern ports only on ships from Skagway south,
billing to either of the steamship companies. The rates
for freight and passengers were fixed and an apportionment between the said respective carriers of the gross
receipts was established and agreed upon. With the like
intent and purpose it was agreed that the railroad should,
and it did, refuse to enter into any joint through traffic
arrangement with any other carrier or carriers, and refused to receive any other through billing on shipments
from the said southern ports except such as arrived at
Skagway by some ship belonging to one of the steamship
companies,, or from said Yukon points to the southern
ports, except by the same ships. As part of the same
combination and with the same intent and purpose it
was agreed that the Wharves Company should, and it
did, during all the times mentioned, charge wharfage at
the rate of $2.00 per ton for all freight handled over its
wharf except when the same was shipped on a vessel
owned by either of the companies, or was consigned to
-some one who had entered into or was about to enter into
a contract with either of said steamship companies to

OCTOIBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the, Case.

228 U. S.

bind himself to have all of, his freight carried by such
steamship company and by no one else, in which latter
case a wharfage of $1.00 per ton only was charged and any
charge in excess of $1.00 was unreasonably high and was
exacted for the unlawful purpose aforesaid. With like
intention and purpose and as part of the same combination
and conspiracy, it was arranged and agreed by and between the defendants that the said railroad should, and
it accordingly did, fix and establish local rates and transportation charges for freight and passengers from 5%
to 25% higher than the through joint rates, differing
according to classification of the various commodities
shipped. Pursuant to such arrangement and the purpose
and intention aforesaid, the said railroad received for
through shipments, as its share of freight charges,- from
15% to 30% less than it charged for the same class of
freight shipped between Skagway and the same Yukon
points. By reason of the facts alleged it became and was,
during all of the time mentioned, unprofitable for the
public to employ any carrier in the trade, traffic or commerce save and except the said steamship companies,
and competition in the said water transportation between
the steamship companies and other carriers was in that
manner and by the means of said combination and conspiracy eliminated and destroyed, the defendants being
enabled to monopolize such trade, traffic, transportation
and commerce to the injury of the public.
The third count charged an unlawful and unjust discrimination in the transportation'of passengers and freight,
in violation of the Interstate Commerce Act. The discrimination is charged to have been practiced against
the Humboldt Steamship Company between January 1,
1909, and August 10, 1910, which company is alleged to be
a Califo nia corporation and engaged as a common carrier,
of freight and passengers operating a line of steamers
from the same ports from which the defendant steamship

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

93

Statement of the Case.

companies operate their respective lines to Skagway,
Alaska. In the conduct of its business the Humboldt
Steamship Company operated a steamship called the
"Humboldt" on a regular schedule, and route between
Seattle, Washington, and Skagway. "The railroad,"
as we have seen the White Pass & Yukon route is called
in all of the counts, had entered into and maintained
during the time aforesaid with the defendant steamship
companies a joint traffic arrangement whereby and under
the terms of which freight and passengers might be billed
at a joint through rate from the said southern ports over
the route described to the various Yukon points, but
refused without cause or excuse to enter into a joint
-though
traffic arrangement with the Humboldt Company,
requested to do so, or to receive, carry or handle any
freight billed through from Seattle to Yukon points on
the railroad or the Yukon River; and neither would nor
did carry any freight whatever from Skagway to any of
said points in British or American territory at a less rate
or charge than from 5% to 30% more, according to
classification and character, than it received from the
defendant steamship companies as its proportion of joint
through rates from such southern points to the corresponding Yukon points. The railroad company, it is charged,
caused the North Pacific Wharves & Trading Company
to charge for all. freight shipped on the steamship "Humboldt" for transshipment on the railroad to points along
its line on the Yukon River a wharfage of $2.00 per ton,
whereas it included at the same time in its portion of the
through rate on through bills under its arrangement
with defendant steamship companies all wharfage charges.
And it is alleged that the defendants knowingly, willfully
and maliciously induced and incited the railroad company to practice the discrimination described, and each
and all aided and abetted one another' and the railroad
company in such practice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the)United States.

228 U. S.

The other 'facts as to routes, commerce and carriers;
their relations and arrangements and the effect of them
are the same as in the first and second counts, the order
of statement being somewhat different.
Count 4 is the same, as to the facts alleged, as the third
count except the discrimination is charged to have been
practiced against the Humboldt Steamship Company between August 18, 1910, and January 1, 1912.
Count 5 brings the discrimination charged down to the
finding and presentation of the indictment. There is no
allegation of discrimination in wharfage charges.
Count 6 charges the crime of conspiracy to commit an
offense against the United States by destroying competition between the defendant steamship companies and the
Humboldt Steamship Company. The same facts are
alleged as in the other counts.
Motions to quash the indictment and each of its counts
were made and denied. Demurrers to the indictment were
filed and sustained to all counts but the sixth. To that,
the demurrer of the individual defendants was sustained.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBullitt for the United States:
The United States may indict for violations of the
Sherman Anti-trust Act without the necessity of any
prior action by the Interstate Commerce Commission on
the facts involved.
An act may be in violation of the Sherman Anti-trust
Law without being in violation of the Interstate Commerce
Act. Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 183 Fed. Rep.
548; Texas R., R. Comm'n v. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 20
I. C. C. Rep. 463, 465; United States v. Joint Traffic Ass'n,
171 U. S. 505; United States v. Trans-Missouri'Ass'n,
166 U. S. 290.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has nothing
to do with prosecutions under the Anti-trust Act.
The United States may indict for unjust discriminations,

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

95

Argument for the United States.

&c., in violation of the Interstate Commerce Act without
the necessity of first having the Interstate Commerce
Commission determine the legality or propriety of the
acts complained of.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has powers as
between carriers and shippers but not as between the
United States and carriers or shippers.
Different rules govern applications by shippers for
relief in the courts from those governing the United States.
(a) In the light of reason., (b) The provisions of the statute. (c) Under the authorities.
For suits between private parties see Atlantic Coast
Line v. Macon Grocery Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 206; B. & 0.
R. R.. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Columbus
Iron Co. v. Kanawha Ry. Co., 171 Fed. Rep. 713; Houston
Coal Co. v. N. & W. Ry. Co., 171 Fed. Rep. 723; Jewett
Bros. v. C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 160;
Kiser Co. v. Central of Ga. Ry. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 193;
No. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Pacific Coast &c. Ass'n, 165 Fed. Rep.
1; Proctor & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S. 282;
Robinson v. B. & 0. R. Co., 222 U. S. 506 ;LTexas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Oregon & Wash. Ass'n, 165 Fed. Rep.
13; Wickwire Steel Co. v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co., 181
Fed. Rep. 316.
As to prosecutions by the United States see Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; A., T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 170 Fed, Rep. 250; Chicago &
Alton Ry. Co. v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 558; S. C.,
212 U. S. 563; Chicago, St. P. &c. Ry. Co. v. United States,
162 Fed. Rep. 835; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. United States,
209 U. S. 90; Great Nor. Ry. Co., v. United States, 208
U. S. 452; L. V. R. R. Co. v. United States, 188 Fed. Rep.
879; N. Y. Central v. United States, 212 U. S. 481, 500;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 179 Fed. Rep. 614;
United States v. B, & O,R. Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 997; United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

228 U. S.

States v. Great Nor. R. Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 288; United
States v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 194 Fed. Rep. 234;
United States v. Mer. & Min. &c. Co., 187 Fed. Rep.
363; United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599; United States
v. P. & R. Ry. Co., 184 Fed Rep. 543; United States v.
Sunday Creek Co., 194 Fed. Rep. 252; United States v.
Txas & Pac., 185 Fed. Rep. 820; Wight v. United States,
167 U. S. 512; Wisconsin Cent. v, United States, 169
Fed. Rep. 76.
Mr. W. H. Bogle, with whom Mr. Carrol B. Graves,
Mr. W. B. Stratton, Mr. Ira Bronsont Mr. Morven Thompson and Mr. Bruce C. Shorts were on the brief, for defendants inerror:
Under the provisions of the act of March 2, 1907, the
questions for review are only those arising from the decision of the court below in construing the statutes upon
which the indictment is founded.
Holding that the indictment did not sufficiently specify
the acts of the individual defendants which were relied
upon as constituting a participation by them in the offense
charged, or in aiding or assisting therein is not a construction of either the conspiracy statute, upon which that
count of the indictment was founded, or of the Interstate
Commerce Act, the violation of which was the crime which
the defendants were alleged to have conspired to commit.
The ruling of the court below sustaining the demurrer as
to count 6 was based upon general principles of criminal
pleading, and is not reviewable under this writ. United
States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States v. Stevenson,
215 U. S. 190.
Neither of the acts charged in the indictment, nor the
two combined, amounts to undue restraint of trade or
monopoly, under the Anti-trust Act, or. undue discrimination under the Interstate Commerce Act.
The Pacific and Arctic Railway & Navigation Coin-

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

97

Argument for Defendants in Error.

pany was constructed and operated from the international
boundary line to Skagway. It was under no legal duty
to assume any obligations whatever with respect of the
carriage of either freight or passengers by water between
Skagway and the southern ports. If it voluntarily assumed any obligations for carriage beyond its own line,
it had the legal right at its own discretion to select the
agencies beyond its own line for which it w3uld be responsible. Under the principles of common law, it had
this absolute right, and could enter into an agreement
for through routing and through rating with one connecting carrier and refuse to enter into any such agreement with any Other connecting carrier. A., T. & S.
F. R.. Co. v. D. &c. Co., 110 U. S. 667; S. P. R. Co. v.
I. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 536; Interstate Com. Comm. v.
N. P. Co., 216 U. S. 538; St. Louis Drayage Co. v. L. d
N. R. R., 65 Fed. Rep. 39; 0. S, L. Co. v. N. P. R. Co.,
51 Fed. Rep. 465; C. & N. W. Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep.
912; P. & S. Co. v. A., T. & S. F. Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 438;
G., C. & S. R. Co. v. S. S. Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 407; Central
Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. R. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 113.
The provision in § 1 of the Commerce Act requiring
carriers to establish through routes and just and reasonable rates applicable thereto, does not require i carrier
to establish through routes with all connecting carriers.
So long as reasonable through routes are established the
obligation imposed is complied with.
This clause in § 1 standing alone, is not capable of
particular enforcement, and it must be read in connection
with § 15. Two carriers cannot establish a through route
unless they can agree upon the terms and conditions,
and upon the amount and division of the through rate.
The failare of carriers ' to-come to terms of agreement
cannot be made a criminal offense under § 10 of the
Commerce Act or under the Sherman Act. Cardiff Coal
Co. v. C., M. & St. P. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 460.. There
VOL. c xxvii-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

228 U. S.

was no legal duty upon the carrier to make a through routing agreement with any particular connecting carrier, until the Interstate Commerce Commission, after a hearing,
had in the first instance determined that such a through
route was required by the public interest, and ordered its
establishment. Interstate Com. Comm. v. N. P. Co., 216
U. S. 538.
The indictment in this case does not allege that any
particular agreement for through routing was ever presented to the railway company by axy other connecting
carrier than the defendants, nor does it allege upon what
terms and conditions the railway should have contracted,
nor indicate in any way how the defendant railway company was to be protected against the additional obligations resulting from a through routing with such carrier.
It is intended by the Interstate Commerce Act that the
question, when and under what circumstances a through
route should be established between any two particular
connecting carriers (in the absence of voluntary agreement
between them), and upon what terms and conditions
such through route should be established, was committed
in the' first instance exclusively to the determination of
the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to the
provisions of § 15 of the act; that the courts could not,
in either a civil or criminal proceeding, determine in the
first instance and in the absence of action by the Commission, whether a through route as between any two
specified connecting carriers was or was not required by
the public interest; and that in the absence of any action
by the Commission, an allegation that a carrier entered
into a through routing agreement with one connecting
carrier and refused to make such agreement with any
other carrier, cannot be held to be undue discrimination
under the' C6mmerce Act, or undue restraint of trade
under the Anti-trust Act. Tex. & Pac'. Railway Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426: B. & 0. R. Co. v.

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

99

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 482; Robinson v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 222 U. S. 506; Proctor & Gamble Co. v. United States,
225 U. S. 282.
The establishment or non-establishment of a through
route in a given instance is administrative in its nature,
and the determination of the necessity for its establishment is, in the first instance, committed exclusively to
the judgment of the Commission by § 15 of the act.
The construction of the indictment by the.court below,
showing a difference in conditions under which different
wharfage rates were charged, is binding upon this court.
United States v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507; United States v.
Patten, 226 U. S. 525; United States v. Winslow, 227 U. S.
202.
The reasonableness of the wharfage rate on local shipments, and the reasonableness of the difference in the
rate on local and on through-routed shipments, are questions for the solution of which there is no certain or fixed
standard, and upon which different men might reasonably
reach different conclusions. To make criminality depend,
not upon facts, but upon the view of a jury as to the
reasonableness of rates, is contrary to fundamental principles. Tozier v. United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; Van
Patten v. C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 545.
While it is alleged that the lines from Skagway to
Dawson were under one and the same management and
operated as one continuous line, it is not alleged that the
defendant railroad company or any of the other defendants had any interest in or control over or participated
in the operation of either of the three foreign lines.
The laws of the United States cannot make it. either
criminal or wrongful for the owners of a foreign railroad
to refuse to enter into traffic agreements with any other
carrier whether located within or without the United
States, and involving a carriage in such foreign country.
It is not and cannot be criminal or wrongful for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

defendant railway company or its officers to refuse to
extend through-routing. privileges over railroads and
steamship lines owned and operated by other corporations in a foreign country. Neither the defendants nor
the Interstate Commerce Commission itself had any
power to establish through-routing and through-rating
over these foreign lines without the consent of the owners
and operators of such foreign lines. Our laws cannot be
extended so as to control or affect foreign carriage. Am.
BananaCo. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U.'S. 347.
The acts charged against the defendants were lawful
at common law, and are not forbidden by the Interstate
Commerce Act; it cannot, therefore, be held that they
constitute either undue restraint of trade or undue discrimination. The refusal by the railroad company to
give to the Humboldt Steamship Company, or any other
company, privileges which it was under no legal obligation to give, and to which such other company was not
legally entitled, cannot be made the basis of a charge of
either undue discrimination or undue restraint of trade.
A. J. & F. S. v. Tiedt, 196 Fed. Rep. 349; Donotan v.
Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 279; Gamble-Robinson Co. v.
Railroad, 168 Fed. Rep. 161; G., C. & S. R. C. v- Miami
Steamship Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 407.
With respect to counts 1 and 2, the allegations of the
indictment are too general and indefinite.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA,

after stating the case as,

above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The District Court said that it was "without jurisdiction to entertain or determine the questions involved
in the first five counts of the indictment in either a criminal or civil proceeding," until the matters of discrimina.tion between carriers or shippers or the giving or refusing
of joint traffic arrangements "have been submitted to

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

101

Opinion of the Court.

and passed on by the Interstate Commerce Commission."
For this conclusion the court relied on Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 427, and
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co.,
215 U. S. 481, 492.
It. may be well, even at the expense of repetition, to
give a summary of the indictment before passing to the
special contention of the parties. The route described is
between ports of the United States (called southern ports)
and places in northern Alaska and Canada (called northern
ports)-(1) by steamship lines from the United States
and Vancouver, (southern ports) to Skagway (the entire
wharfage facilities being owned by The North Pacific
Wharves & Trading Company); (2) thence by railroad
to the headwaters of the Yukon 'River; (3) thence by
boat. down the Yukon River to Dawson, etc., (called
the northern ports). The route is designated as the
White 'Pass and Yukon Ruute and is constituted of (a)
The Pacific and Arctic Railway and Navigation Company,
a West Virginia corporation; (b) The British ColumbiaYukon Railway Company, incorporated under the laws
of British Columbia; (c) The British-Yukon Railway
Company, incorporated under the laws of the Dominion
of Canada; and (d) The British-Yukon Navigation Company, Limited, incorporated under the laws 6f"',British
Columbia. These companies are referred to as "the
railroad company" and own the only line of transportation between the wharf at Skagway and the Yukon River.
By mutual agreement between the defendant steamship companies, the Wharves Company and the railroad
company, through routes and joint rates were established,
thus making one continuous line of common carriers for
freight and passengers between the United States (southern ports) and northern Alaska (northern ports).
The Humboldt Steamship Company and other independ-ent lines plied between the United States and Skagway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

By agreement between the defendants the railroad
refused to make any through route or joint rates with
the Humboldt Company, or with any of the independent
steamship lines, and refused to bill freight or passengers
from the United States to Yukon River points, or reversely, except by ships belonging to one of the defendant
companies.
By agreement between the defendants the railroad
fixed so-called local rates between $kagway and the
Yukon RiVer points, which rates were very much higher
than the railroad's pro rata of the through rate.
The Wharves Company charged $2.00 a ton for freight
if shipped on a vessel not owned by one of the defendant
companies. If so shipped and consigned to one who had
entered into, or was about to enter into a contract to
have all of hig shipments so carried, the wharfage charge
was only $1.00. Wharfage charges in excess of $1.00
are unreasonably high.
As a result of the agreement, shippers were compelled
to use only the ships of the defendant steamship companies, as in that way alone could lower through rates
be obtained. Competition in water transportation was
destroyed between the defendant steamship companies
and the independent lines, defendants obtained a monopoly of the. transportation business between the United
States and Alaska, and the Humboldt Company was
discriminated against in the matter of through rates.
These agreements between the defendant companies are
alleged to be (count 1) for the purpose of eliminating
competition from the business of transportation between
the United States and Alaska; (second count) to monopolize such business; (counts 3, 4 and 5) to discriminate
against the Humboldt Company. Count 6 we omit from
consideration for the present.
The charges of the indictment may be even further concentrated and attention directed to these elements: The

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

103

Opinion of the Court.

defendant steamship lines and the Humboldt and independent lines from the United States to Skagway, the
wharf at Skagway and the railroad from Skagway to the
Yukon River points. The only possibility of competition
is in the water part of this route. This controlled, the
entire transportation is controlled; and to this control
the action of the, defendants was directed, the means of
control being an agreement between the- defendants to
throw all the trade into the hands of the defendant steamship companies by the railroad company establishing
through route and joint rates with them and refusing
to do so with the Humboldt Company or any of the independent companies. The Wharves Company gave its
assent by its wharfage charges and all evasion was
prevented by so fixing the local rates that their combination was greater than the through rate agreed on. It is
manifest that the scheme was effective and cut out the
Humboldt, line and the independent lines as factors in
the routes of transportation between the United States
and the Yukon River points. Is the scheme illegal?
This is asserted by the Government and denied by
the defendants. The court below, if we take some parts
of its decisions, held that the forum of that question was
the Interstate Commerce Commission. But, considering
the decision of the court as a whole, we think it construed
the Anti-trust Act, upon which counts I and 2 were based,
and to those counts we shall confine our discussion for
the present. This is admitted by defendants. They say
that as the court held that in order to constitute restraint
of trade or monopolization of trade under the Anti-trust
Act the act charged must be such as at common law
,constituted restraint of trade, and were unlawful, to
that extent the court construed the act. And, setting
forth the grounds of the ruling, counsel say that the court
decided that .the entering into through route agreements
by a common carrier with one or more connecting carriers

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S:

and the refusal to make such agreements with other
connecting carriers was not unlawful either at common
law or by the Interstate Commerce Act, and the court
held, therefore, that such act did not constitute restraint
within the meaning of the Anti-trust Act. The right of a
carrier to select its connections must be admitted (we
state the right as absolute, without regard to the Interstate Commerce Act,_ for our present purposes), and if
there Were nothing else in the case the conclusion of the
District Court would have to be affirmed. But there is
another and important element to be considered. The
charge of the indictment is that the agreements were
entered into not from natural trade reasons, not from a
judgment of the greater efficiency or responsibility of
the defendant steamship lines as instruments in the
transportation than the independent lines, but as a combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade by preventing and destroying competition in the transportation of
freight and passengers between the United States and
Alaska and obtaining a monopoly of the traffic by engaging not to enter into agreements with the independent
lines. There is a charge, therefore, of infringement of the
Anti-trust Law, of something more done than the exercise
of the common-law right of selecting connections, and the
scheme becomes illegal. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 396. We do not pause to justify this conclusion,
either by the general purpose of the act or by its adjudged
applications. Its general purpose has been elaborately
set forth in very recent cases; and particular instances
of its application, pertinent to the case at bar and illus,trative of it, are exhibited by Swift & Co. v. United States,
supra, and Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20. In those cases, as here, rights
were brought forward to justify a purpose which transcended the limits put upon their exercise by the Antitrust Act. In those cases, as here, the purpose (the

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228 U. S.

105

Opinion of the Court.

means being different) was the prevention or destruction
of competition, and the agreements here are exactly
adapted to the purpose. Not the railroad only but the
Wharves Company as well is charged to be in the combination. It was intermediate the railroad and the steamship lines and discriminated in its wharfage charge, it
is alleged, to aid in the purpose of the combination, and,
to complete and make effective the purpose, the local
rates from Skagway to Yukon points were made greater
than that part of the through transportation.
Whether $2.00 per ton (the rate charged to independent
lines as against $1.00 per ton charged to the defendant
steamship lines) was reasonable or unreasonable, or
whether a through rate may be less than the sum of the
local rates, 'we are not called upon to consider, although
the court below thought the inquiry important and the
defendants make it prominent in their contentions. The
plan makes the parts unlawful (Swift & Co. v. United
States, supra), whatever they may be independently of
it, and whether there is or is not a standard of reasonableness which juries may apply is aside from the question.
It is equally unimportant to consider whether the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to pass on the
rates, as such, or through routing, as such. We are dealing
with an indictment which charges a criminal. violation of
the Anti-trust Act, and of that the criminal courts have
cognizance, with power of decision upon the principle
which we have expressed.
The next contention of defendants is that as part of the
transportation route was outside of the United States the
Anti-trust Law does not apply. The consequences and,
indeed, legal impossibility are set forth to such application,
and; it is said, "make it obvious that our laws relating to
interstate and floreign commerce were not intended to
have any effect upon the carriage by foreign roads in
foreign countries, and ....
it is equally clear that

OCTO3ER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

our laws cannot be extended so as to control or affectthe
foreign carriage." This is but saying that laws have no
extra-territorial operation; but to apply the proposition

as defendants apply it would put the transportation route
described in the indictment out of the control of either
Canada or the United States. These consequences we
cannot accept. The indictment alleges that the four companies which constitute the White Pass & Yukon Route
(referred to as the railroad) and owned and controlled by
the same persons, entered into the combination and conspiracy alleged, with the intention alleged, with the
Wharves Company and the defendant steamship companies. In other words, it was a control to be exercised
over transportation in the United States, and, so far, is
within the jurisdiction of the laws of the United States,
criminal and civil. If we may not control foreign citizens
or corporations operating in foreign territory, we certainly
may control such citizens and corporations operating in our
territory, as we undoubtedly may control our own citizens
and our own corporations.
The ruling of the District Court, sustaining the demurrer to the first and second counts, was therefore
erroneous.
The decision of the District Court upon counts 3, 4 and
5 must be determined upon different principles than those
which we have just expressed in passing on counts 1 and 2.
The District Court, as we have seen, decided that the
conduct of the defendants was not subject to judicial review in a criminal or civil case until-it had been submitted
to and passed upon by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Government attacks the conclusion with
arguments of great strength and contends that it makes
the Commission not only the judges of the civil relief
that private shippers may be given against the carriers by the Interstate Commerce Act, but gives the
Commission the control and practical determination of

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC & ARCTIC CO.
228

U. S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

the criminal provisions of the law. The argument, in
effect, is that the conclusion of the District Court confounds the civil and criminal remedies of the law, the private injury and the public injury, resulting from the
violation of its provisions. And who, it is asked, will
initiate the criminal proceeding and by what proof will
it be supported? What degree of proof is to be accorded
to the finding of the Commission-presumptive or conclusive? If neither, it is argued, "it would be a senseless
thing to regard such a finding as a condition precedent
of the United States to indict." If, it is asked further,
the finding of the Commission is to have either prima
facie or conclusive effect, against whom is it to have such
effect? If against a defendant, what becomes of the Sixth
Amendment of the Constitution? The argument of the
Government is cast in a series of questions which end in
the final answer, as it is contended, that under the decision
of the District Court the Interstate Commerce Commission "becomes practically the court of final criminal
jurisdiction."
The contentions of the Government would be formidable indeed if the Interstate Commerce Act was entirely
criminal. But it is more regulatory and administrative
than criminal. It has, it is true, a criminal provision
against violations of its requirements, but some of ;ts
requirements may well depend upon the exercise of the
administrative power of the Commission. This view
avoids the consequences depicted by the Government.
It keeps separate the civil and criminal remedies of the
act, each to be exercised in its proper circumstances.
It makes the Interstate Commerce Act what it was intended to be and defined to be in the cases cited by the
District Court, to-wit: Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co. and Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., supra. And it would in our judgment be
an erroneous view to take that the great problems which

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the act was intended to solve and the great purposes it was
intended to effect should be considered of less consequence

than the facility which should be given to some particular
remedy, civil or criminal. We need not extend the discussion. The purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act
to establish a tribunal to determine the relation of communities, shippers and carriers and their respective rights
and obligations dependent upon the act has been demonstrated by the cited cases, and also the sufficiency of its
powers to deal with the circumstances set forth in the
indictment.
The District Court sustained count 6, against the demurrer of the corporate defendants, but held its averments
were not sufficient to connect the individual defendants
with the offense charged. This is a construction of the indictment and not subject to review.
It is urged by the individual defendants that the objection is applicable to the other counts of the indictment and
that the court would have undoubtedly so ruled but for

its cqnstruction of the Anti-trust Act, and it is also urged
that in case of reversal of the court's decision upon the
construction of the act it be permitted to pass upon such
of the grounds of demurrer as were not passed upon in the
former ruling. We yield to the request, and the more
readily as the Government does not express great confidence in the sufficiency of the indictment. Its final contention is that the judgment of the District Court be
reversed, with instructions "to pass on the sufficiency of
the indictment without regard to the action or non-action
of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
The judgment is therefore reversed as to counts 1 and 2 and
the case remanded with instructionsto proceed in accordance with this opinion.

