OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 20.

Argued April 26, 1912.-Decided April 21, 1913.

Where a life insurance policy plainly provides for payment of the
stipulated premium within a specified period of grace after the due
day and as plainly excludes any idea of partial payments distributed
between the premium dates, the insured gains nothing by giving
an agent a portion of the premium in the absence of authority given
him by the company to accept it.
One dealing with an agent knowing that his authority is limited and
that his acts transcend the limits cannot hold the principal.
Where there is a method for extending payment of premiums which
is known to the insured, who also knows that the agent has no power
to extend on any other terms, the insured takes nothing by an
attempt to extend in a different manner in which an element of
substance in the prescribed method is omitted.
The temporary retention by an insurance company of a partial payment of a premium subject to the direction of the insured, held,
under the circumstances of this case, not to constitute a waiver of
full and timely payment.
The Federal courts cannot follow state statutes or practice in opposition to a provision of the Federal Constitution.
While the Seventh Amendment is not applicable to proceedings in the
courts of the several States, it is controlling in the Federal courts,
and, although under the practice of the State a judgment may be
en ered on the evidence non obstante veredicto, the Federal court may
not do so but must order a new trial where the evidence does not
sustain the verdict.
The Constitution as originally adopted conferred upon this court
appellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact subject to exceptions
and regulations prescribed by Congress; but this, as well as the
jurisdiction of the other Federal courts, was subsequently restricted
by the Seventh Amendment so far as actions at law are concerned.
The power of a Federal court to reexamine issues of fact tried by a jury

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

must under the Seventh Amendment be tested by the rules of the
common law.
Under the rules of the common law an appellate court may set aside a
verdict for error of law in the proceedings and order a new trial but
it may not itself determine the issues of fact.
Under the rules of the common law when the court sets aside a verdict
there arises the same right of trial by ury as in the first instance.
In the trial by-jury, the right to which is-secured by the SeventhAmendment, both the court and the jury are essential factors.
Whether the facts are difficult or easy of ascertainment is immaterial,
the guarauty of the Seventh Amendment operates to require the
issues to be settled by the verdict of a jury unless the right thereto
be waived.
The rules of the common law in respect to demurrers to evidence and
non-suits furnish no warrant for a Federal court setting aside a
verdict and rendering judgment on the evidence without a new trial.
Nothing in Central TransporlalionCo. v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139
U. S. 24, or Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U. S. 301, tends to show that
a Federal court has power to reeixamine, otherwise than according
-to the rules of the common law, issues of fact which have been determined by the verdict of a jury.
The terms of the Seventh Amendment and the circumstances of its
adoption show that one of its purposes was to require adherence to
the rule of the common law that a verdict cannot be disturbed for
an error of law occurring on the trial without awarding a new trial.
The right to a new trial on the vacation of a favorable verdict in a case
of this nature is a matter of substance and not of form.
In this case the Circuit Court of Appeals properly reversed a judgment
on a general verdict for the plaintiff on the ground that the defendant's request for a directed verdict should have been granted by the
trial court; but, under the Seventh Amendment, the only course
was to order a new trial, and as the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals directing a judgment to be entered-for defendant notwithstanding the verdict for the plaintiff violated that amendment,
the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals is modified by substituting
for such direction a direction for a new trial.
177 Fed. Rep. 842, reversed.

THE factsr which involve the construction of a life
insurance policy and whether it had expired by reason of
non-payment of premium and also the power of the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

cuit Court of Appeals under the Seventh Amendment to
reverse a judgment entered on a verdict of a jury and
direct judgment for the other party, in conformity with a
state practice, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George E. Shaw, with whom Mr. Daniel B. Henderson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James H. McIntosh, with whom Mr. George B.
Gordon was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action in the Circuit Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania on a policy of insurance on the
life of Alexander W. Slocum. The policy was for $20,000,
was an ordinary life contract on the 20-year accumulation
plan, was payable to the executors, administrators or
assigns of the insured, became effective November 27,
1899, and called for the payment of a premium of $579.60
on each anniversary of that date. It made provision for
interest-bearing loans by the company to the insured
on terms stated, and also contained the following stipulations:
"This policy is automatically non-forfeitable from date
of issue, as follows:
"First. If any premium is not duly paid, and if there is
rfo indebtedness to the Company, this policy will be endorsed for the amount of paid-up insurance specified in
the table on the second page hereof, on written request
therefor within six months from the date to which premiums were duly paid. If no such request is made,-the
insurance will automatically continue from said date for
$20,000 for the term specified in said table and no longer.
"Second. If any premium or interest is not duly paid,

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and if there is 'an indebtedness to the Company, this
policy will be endorsed for such amount of paid-up insurance as any excess of the reserve held by the Company
over such indebtedness will purchase according to the
Company's present published table of single premiums,
on written request therefor within six months from the
date to which premiums were duly paid. If no such request for paid-up insurance is made, the net amount
that would have been payable as a death claim on the
date to which premiums were duly paid will automatically
continue as term insurance from such date, for such time
as said excess of the reserve will purchase according to
the Company's present published table of single premiums for term insurance, and no longer.
"Grace in Payment of Premiums.-A grace of one month,
during which the policy remains in full force, will be allowed in payment of all premiums except the first, subject to an interest charge at the rate of five per cent.
per annum.
"General Provisions.-(1) Only the President, a VicePresident, the Actuary or the Secretary has power in behalf of the Company to make or modify this or any'contract of insurance or to extend the time for paying any
premium, and the Company shall not be bound by any
promise or representation heretofore or hereafter given
by any person other than the above. (2) Premiums are
due and payable at the Home Office, unless otherwise
agreed in writing, but may be paid to an agent producing
receipts signed by one of the above-named officers and
countersigned by the agent. If any premium is not paid
on or before the day when due, or within the month of
grace, the liability of the Company shall be only as hereinbefore provided for such case."
The insured died December 31, 1907, and the action was
brought by his executrix. In the plaintiff's statement of
claim recovery was sought upon two grounds: First, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

all premiums prior to the one of November 27, 1907, had
been duly paid; that the premium of that date had been
adequately adjusted on December 27, 1907, the last day
of grace, by an agreement between the insured's wife,
acting hi his behalf, and a duly authorized agent of the
company, whereby the wife made, and the agent accepted,
a payment of $264.20, which was to carry the policy along
until May 27, 1908, and whereby the agent was to accept from the insured a "blue note" for $434.00, payable
May 27, 1908, as covering the balance of the premium;
and that the company had adopted and confirmed the
acts of its agent in that regard; second, that, independently
of the adjustment of that premium, the company on
November 27, 1907, held a reserve on the policy sufficiently
exceeding any indebtedness of the insured to the company
to continue the policy in force, under the latter part of
the automatic non-forfeiture provision before quoted,
beyond the date of his death, and that in consequence of
this the policy was in full force when he died. The company entered a plea of non-assumpsit and also filed an
affidavit of defense denying the alleged adjustment of
the premium of November 27, 1907, as also the existence
of any reserve on the policy in excess of the indebtedness
of the insured to the company, and otherwise adequately
setting up the defenses presently to be noticed. The issues
so presented were tried before the court and a jury. At
the conclusion of all the evidence, the defendant requested
the court to direct a verdict in its favor, which the court
declined to do, and the company excepted. A general
verdict for the plaintiff was returned, assessing the recovery at $18,224.02, which sum was ascertained by deducting from the amount of the policy a loan of $2,360.00
from the company to the insured and $434.00, the amount
of the intended blue note, and then allowing interest on
the remainder from the date when proofs of death were
submitted to the company to the date of the verdict.

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The company moved for judgment in its favor on the
evidence notwithstanding the verdict, but the motion
was denied, the company excepting, and judgment was
entered for the plaintiff. A bill of exceptions, embodying
all the evidence with the rulings and exceptions, was
seasonably presented and allowed, and the case was taken
on writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where
error was assigned on the refusal to direct a verdict for
the defendant and on the denial of the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. That court reversed
the judgment with a direction to sustain the latter motion,
on the ground that the evidence did not legally admit of
the conclusion that the policy was a subsisting contract
of insurance at the date of the insured's death. 177 Fed.
Rep. 842. A writ of certiorarithen brought the case here.
The questions now to be considered are, first, whether
the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing the judgment, and, second, if it did not err in that regard, whether
it should have awarded a new trial instead of directing
a judgment for the defendant on the evidence notwithstanding the verdict for the plaintiff.
As a preliminary to the consideration of the first question it may be well to repeat what this court often has said,
that when, on the trial of the issues of fact in an action at
law before a Federal court and a jury, the evidence, with
all the inferences that justifiably could be drawn from it,
does not constitute a sufficient basis for a verdict for
the plaintiff or the defendant, as the case may be, so that
such a verdict, if returned, would have to be set aside, the
court may and should direct a verdict for the other party.
Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478;
Delaware &c. Railroad Co. v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Pool, 160 U. S. 438; Patton v.
Texas & Pacific Railway Co., 179 U. S. 658. The recognized mode of invoking the application of this rule is by
preferring, at the conclusion of the evidence, a request for
VOL. ccxxvTmi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

a directed verdict, and the ruling on such a, request is
subject to reexamination and approval or disapproval on
writ of error in like circumstances and in like manner as
are other rulings in matter of law during the course of the
trial.
The case made by the evidence, in that view of it which
is most favorable to the plaintiff, was as follows:
The plaintiff's right to recover if the policy was a subsisting contract of insurance at the date of the insured's
death, and the latter's compliance with the terms and
conditions of the policy other than the payment of the
premium of November 27, 1907, were conceded. The
month of grace allowed for the payment of that premium
expired four days before the insured died. He had been
seasonably and regularly notified of the time when the
premium would fall due and of the consequences which
would follow a default in its payment. But it had not
been paid or adjusted, unless a payment or adjustment
was effected by the negotiations and transactions presently
to be recited.
When the premium fell due the insured was indebted
to the company in the sum of $2,360.00 for money thererepretofore borrowed under the policy, and that sum
sented the full amount of the reserve on the policy. If
there had been no loan the automatic non-forfeiture
provision before quoted and the reserve would have entitled the insured, if he so elected, to a paid-up insurance
of $4,000.00 for the full period of his life, and in the
absence .of such an election would have operated to continue the policy in force for the full sum of $20,000.00
for a period of seven years and seven months, without
payment of further premiums. But as the insured had
borrowed the full amount of the reserve, there was no
excess applicable to a continuance of the insurance in
either mode. Thus the policy expired according to its
own terms before the death of the insured, unless a pay-

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment or adjustment of the premium of November 27, 1907,
was effected in the manner already suggested.
While the policy provided that only the president, a
vice-president, the actuary or thb secretary of the company had power in its behalf to modify the terms of that
or any other policy or to extend the time for paying any
premium, the company had qualified this provision by
adopting a plan of adjusting the payment of premiums
whereby its agents were authorized to accept from an
insured less than the full amount in cash if accompanied
by a "blue note" for the balance. Notes of this type were
distributed by the company and contained stipulations
upon which its consent to the adjustment was conditioned
and to which the insured would necessarily assent by
signing the note. The agent at Pittsburgh, to whom the
earlier premiums on this policy were paid, was authorized
to make adjustments conformably to this plan, but, like
other agents, he could not accept a partial payment or
grant an extension of time for the balance unless the blue
note was given, nor, so far as appeared, had anything been
done which was calculated to engender the belief that he
could do so. He repeatedly had accepted payment in
cash of part of a premium and extended the time for
paying the remainder, but this was done only where the
policy holder had given a note of the prescribed type
embodying the terms on which the company's assent
depended. The practice in this regard was known to the
insured and his wife, for they had secured three or four
such adjustments in connection with this policy before
1907, the insured being required, in each instance to
execute such a note.
On the day before the premium of November 27, 1907,
fell due, the wife of the insured, acting in his behalf, called
at the agent's office' and made inquiry respecting the
easiest method of adjusting the premium, explaining at
the time that the insured was short of ready money. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

ageirt suggested two possible methods and outlined them
upon memoranda which she took away to show to the
insured. The first method has no bearing here. "By the
other method," as is said in the brief for the plaintiff
"it was represented that if she [meaning the insured]
paid $264.20 in cash and gave a blue-note contract for
$434.00, payable in six months, the insurance would be
continued for a period of six months, and if the note was
paid when due, the insurance would be continued for the
remainder of the year." The aggregate of these sums
represented the premium on the policy and the interest on
the loan, settlement of both being essential to a continuance of the policy. On the last day of grace, December 27,
1907, the wife returned to the agent's office with a check
for $264.20, payable to her order and by her endorsed to
the company. Of what then occurred she testified:."I
gave him [the agent] the check for $264.20, and he handed
me the blue note and another paper in an envelope, and
he said that the note must be signed, and I must return
it. I told him Mr. Slocum was ill, and it might be several
days before I could send it back, and he said that would
be all right, 'Mail it as soon as you can.'" She took the
blue note home with her intending to get it signed, but
found the insured too ill to give it attention. He died
four days later without having signed it. The agent did
not give a receipt for the $264.20, nor was one requested.
In 1905 that year's premium was adjusted by a partial
payment in cash and the giving of a blue note for the
balance, and when the adjustment was completed the
agent gave a single receipt for both the cash and the note
and in the receipt recited the terms upon which the adjustment was made, as was done in the note.
In 1906 the insured had notified the company that his
postoffice address was Houston, Texas, and that fact
carried matters pertaining to his policy to the company's St. Louis agency. -It was from that agency that he

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS, CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

received the notice calling for the payment of the premium
of November 27, 1907. On January 6, 1908, the agent at
St. Louis, not knowing of the insured's death, wrote to
him acknowledging receipt of the check for $264.20
handed to the agent at Pittsburgh (the letter inaccurately
stated the amount) and saying: "Pending the return by
you of the note contract, properly signed, your remittance
is held subject to your order." The check was then deposited in a St. Louis bank to the credit of the company,
and the latter carried the amount in a suspense account
awaiting directions from the insured.
Subsequently the plaintiff tendered to the company the
amount for which the blue note was-to have been given,
and the company tendered to the plaintiff the amount
of the check, both tenders being refused.
The material portion of the agreement set forth in the
proposed blue note, which was to have been signed by the
insured and returned to the company's agent, is as follows:
"This note is accepted by said Company at the request
of the maker, together with One hundred forty-five and
60-100 Dollars I in cash, on the following express agreement: That although no part of the premium due on the
27th day of Nov. 1907, under Policy No. 3,011,158 issued
by said Company on the life of A. W. Slocum has been
paid, the insurance thereunder shall be continued in force
until midnight of the due date of said note; that if this
note is paid on or before the date it becomes due, such
payment, together with said cash, will then be accepted by
said Company as payment of said premium, and all rights
under said policy shall thereupon be the same as if said
premium had been paid when due; that if this note is not
paid on or before the day it becomes due, it shall thereupon
automatically cease to be a claim against the maker, and
remaining poition of the check represented interest on the loan
made under the policy.
1 The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

said Company shall retain said cash as part compensation
for the rights and privileges hereby granted, and all rights
under said policy shall be the same as if said cash had not
been paid nor this agreement made."
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that the
evidence conclusively established that there was no excess
of reserve on the policy applicable to a continuance of the
insurance after the premium of November 27, 1907, fell
due, and we fully concur in that conclusion. Indeed, its
correctness is practically conceded by counsel for the
plaintiff. That court also was of opinion that the evidence
afforded no basis for a finding that that preipium was
either paid or adjusted. The accuracy of that conclusion
is challenged, but we are constrained to give it our approval for the following reasons:
1. The policy plainly provided for the payment of the
stipulated premium annually within the month of grace
following the due day, and as plainly excluded any idea
that payment could be made in installments distributed
through the year. Concededly, there was no payment
of the whole of the premium in question, and as a partial
payment was not within the contemplation of the policy,
nothing was gained by handing to the agent the check for
$264.20, unless what he did in that connection operated
as a waiver of full and timely payment.
2. One who deals with an agent, knowing that he is
clothed with a circumscribed authority and that his act
transcends his powers, cannot hold his principal; and this
is true whether the agent is a general or a special one, for a
principal may limit the authority of one as well as of the
other.
3. Under the terms of the policy, as qualified by the
practice of the company, the agent was without authority
to waive full and timely payment of the premium, save as
he could adjust the payment conformably to the blue-note
plan. His authority turned upon the giving of the note,

SLOCUM v.. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which was a matter of real substance, and not ofmere form,
as is shown by the terms of the note, before quoted. See
White v. New York Life Insurance Co., 200 Massachusetts,
510. Without it he could neither accept a partial payment
nor extend the time for paying the balance. No note was.
given, and so no waiver resulted. from his acts. The
insured and his wife could not reasonably have understood it otherwise,, for they knew the terms of the policy
and were familiar with the qualifying practice.
4. There was no evidence that the company itself
treated the check as a partial payment or otherwise
ratified the agent's acts. Indeed, the only permissible
inference from the evidence was to the contrary.
We are accordingly of 6pinion that the evidence did not
admit of a finding that the policy was in force at the time
of the insured's death, and therefore that the Circuit
Court should have granted the company's request that a
verdict in its favor be directed. As that request was
denied, the Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in reversing the judgrient.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to consider whether
that court should have directed a new trial instead of a
judgment on the evidence contrary to the verdict. The
latter direction was given conformably to a statute of
Pennsylvania, the State in which the Circuit Court was
held, and to the practice thereunder in the courts of the
State. The statute reads as follows:
"That whenever, upon the trial of any issue, a point
requesting binding instructions has been reserved or
declined, the party presenting the point may, within the
time prescribed for moving for a new trial, or within such
other or further time as the court shall allow, move the
court to have all the evidence taken upon the trial duly
certified and filed so as to become part of the record, and
for judgment non obstante veredicto upon the whole record;
whereupon it shall be the duty of the couit, if it does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

grant a new trial, to so certify the evidence, and to enter
such judgment as should have been entered upon that
evidence, at the same time granting to the party against
whom the. decision is rendered an exception to the action
of the court in that regard. From the judgment thus
entered either party may appeal to the Supreme or
Superior Court, as in other cases, which shall review the
action of the court below, and enter such judgment as shall
be warranted by the evidence taken in that court." Penn.
Laws 1905, p. 286, c. 198.
The real question is, whether in the direction given by
the Circuit Court of Appeals there was an infraction of the
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, which declares:
"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall
be preserved, and no. fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the United States, than
according to the rules of the common law."
That what was done may be clearly in mind it is well
to repeat that, while on the trial in the Circuit Court the
jury returned a general verdict for the plaintiff, the
Circuit Court of Appeals on an examination of the evidence
concluded that it was not sufficient to sustain the verdict,
and on that ground directed a judgment for the defendant.
In other words, the Circuit Court of Appeals directed
a judgment for one party when the verdict was for the
other, and did this on the theory, not that the judgment
wa required by the state of the pleadings, but that it was
warranted by the evidence. It will be perceived, therefore,
that the court, although practically setting the verdict
aside, did not order a new trial, but assumed to pass
finally upon the issues of fact presented by the pleadings
and to direct a judgment accordingly. If this was an
infraction of the Seventh Amendment it matters not that
it was in conformity with the state statute, or with the

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

practice thereunder in the courts of the State, for neither
the statute nor the practice could be followed in opposition to the Amendment, which, although not applicable to
proceedings in the courts of the several States, is controlling in the Federal courts.
The Constitution of the United States, as originally
adopted, conferred upon this court, by Article III, § 2, "appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make;" but this and the absence of any provision respecting the mode of trial in civil action§ were so generally
regarded as endangering the right of trial by jury as existing at common law and evoked so much criticism on that
ground that the first Congress proposed to the legislatures
of the several States the Seventh Amendment, which was
promptly'ratified. 1 Stat. 21, 97; Story on the Constitution, §§ 1763, 1768.
The adjudged- cases dealing with the origin, scope and
effect of the Amendment are numerous and so comprehensive that little room for original discussion remains.
A reference to some of them will show its true and settled
meaning and point the way to its right application here.
In United States v. Wonson, 1 Gall. 5, 20; 28. Fed. Cas.
745, 750, a case decided in 1812 and often cited with approval by this court, it was said by Mr. Justice Story,
after quoting the words of the Amendment: "Beyond all
question, the common law here alluded to is not the common law of any individual State, (for it probably differs
in all), but it is the common law of England' the grand
reservoir of all our jurisprudence. . . . Now, according to the rules of the common law the facts once tried
by a jury are never reexamined, unless a new trial is
granted in the discretion of the court, before which the
suit is depending, for good cause shown; or unless the
jLidgment of such court is reversed by a superior tribunal,
on a writ of error, and a venire facias de novo is awarded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

This is the invariable usage settled by the decisions of
ages."
I4 Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, decided in 1830, the
same learned justice, speaking for this court, said (p. 446):
"The trial by jury is justly dear to the American people.
It has always been an object of deep interest and solicitude,
and every encroachment upon it has been watched with
great jealousy. . . . One of the strongest objections
originally taken against the Constitution of the United
State , was the want of an express provision securing the
right of trial by jury in civil cases. As soon as the Constitution, was adopted, this right was secured by* the
Seventh Amendment of the Constitution proposed by
Congress, and which received an assent of the people so
general as to establish its importance as a fundamental
guarantee of the rights and liberties of the people." And
then coming to the clause, "and no fact tried by a jury
shall be. otherwise reexamined in any court of the United
States, .than according to the rules of the common law,"
he continued (pp. 447, 448): "This is a prohibition to the
courts of the United States to reexamine any facts tried
by a jury in any other manner. The only modes known
to the common law to reexamine such facts, are the granting of a new trial by the court where the issue was tried,
or to which the record was properly returnable, or the
award of a venire facias de novo, by an appellate court, for
some error of law which intervened in the proceedings."
In Walker v. New Mexico &c. Railroad Co., 165 U. S.
593, 596, decided in 1897, where the Amendment was
again under consideration, it was said by this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Brewer: "Its aim is not
to preserve mere matters of form and procedure but substance of right. This requires that questions of fact in
common law actions shall be settled by a jury, and that
the court shall not assume directly or indirectly to take
from the jury or to itself such prerogative. . . . Now

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a general verdict embodies both the law and the facts.
The jury, taking the law as given by the court, apply that
law to the facts as they find them to be and express their
conclusions in- the verdict. The power of the court to
-grant a new trial if in its judgment the jury have misinterpreted the instructions as to the rules of law or misapplied them is unquestioned, as also when it appears
that there was no real evidence in support of any essential
fact. These things obtained at the common law; they do
not trespass upon the prerogative of the jury to determine
all questions of fact. . .
In Capital Traction Co. v. Hof, 174 U. S. 1, 13, decided
in 1899, the subject was much considered, and, following
a careful review of the -prior decisions, it was said by
Mr. Justice Gray, who spoke for the court: "It must
therefore be taken as established, by virtue of the Seventh
Amendment of the Constitution, that either party to an
action at law (as distinguished from suits in equity or in
admiralty) in a court of the United States, where the value
in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, has the right to a
trial by jury; that, when a trial by jury has been had in
an action at law, in a court either of the United States or
of a State, the facts-there tried and decided cannot be
reexamined in any court of the United States, otherwise
than according to the rules of the common law of England; that by. the rules of that law, no other mode of reexamination is allowed than upon a. new trial, either
granted by the court in which the first trial was had or
to which the record was returnable, or ordered by an
appellate court for error in law; and therefore that, unless
a new trial has been granted in one of those two ways,
facts once tried by a jury cannot be tried anew, by a jury
or otherwise, in any court of the United States."
These decisions make it plain, first, that the action of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in setting aside the verdict
and assuming to pass upon the issues of fact and to direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

a judgment accordingly must be tqsted by the rules of
the common law; second, that, while under those rules
that court could set aside the verdict for error of law in
the proceedings in the Circuit Court and order a new
trial, it could not itself determine the facts; and, third,
that when the verdict was set aside there arose the same
right of trial by jury as in the first instance. How, then,
can it be said that there was not an infraction of the
Seventh Amendment? When the verdict was set aside
the issues of fact were left undetermined, and until they
should be determined anew no judgment on the merits
could be. given. The new determination, according to the
rules of the common law, could be had only through a
new trial, with the same right to a jury as before. Disregarding those rules, the Circuit Court of Appeals itself
determined the facts, without a new trial. Thus, it assumed a power it did not possess and cut off the plaintiff's right to have the facts settled by the verdict of a
jury.
While it is true, as before said, that the'evidence produced at the trial was not sufficient to sustain a verdict
for the plaintiff and that the Circuit Court erred in refusing so to instruct the jury, this does not militate against
the conclusion just stated. According to the rules of the
common law, such an error, like other errors of law affecting a verdict, could be corrected on writ of error only by
ordering a new trial. In no other way could an objectionable verdict be avoided and full effect given to the right
of trial by jury as then known and practiced. And this
procedure was regarded as of real value, because, in addition to fully recognizing that right, it afforded an opportunity for adducing further evidence rightly conducing
to a solution of the issues. In the posture of the case at
bar the plaintiff is entitled to that opportunity, and for
anything that appears-in the record it may enable her to
supply omissios in her own evidence, or to show inac-

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

curacies in that of the defendant, which will rightly entitle her to a verdict and judgment in her favor.
We do not overlook the fact that at common law there
were two well-recognized instances in which the verdict
could be disregarded and the case disposed of without a
new trial. One was where the defendant's plea confessed
the plaintiff's cause of action and set up matter in avoidance which, even if true, was insufficient in law to constitute a bar or defense; and the other was where the plaintiff's pleading, even if its allegations were true, disclosed
no right of recovery. If in either instance a verdict was
taken, the court nevertheless could make such disposition
of the case as was required by the state of the pleadings,
and this because the issues settled by the verdict were
wholly immaterial. In the first instance the court's action
was invoked by a motion for judgment non obstante veredicto, and in the latter by a motion to arrest judgment on
the verdict. Thus we find it is said in Smith's Action at
Law (12th ed., p. 147), a recognized authority on common
law procedure: "A motion for judgment non obstante
verediclo is one which is only made by a plaintiff.
It is given when, upon an examination of the whole pleadings, it appears to the court that the defendant has admitted himself to be in the wrong, and has taken issue on
some point, which, though decided in his favour by the
jury, still does not at all better his case. A motion 'in
arrest of judgment' is the exact reverse of that for judgment non obstante veredicto. The applicant in the one
case insists that the plaintiff is entitled to the judgment
of the court, although a verdict has been found against
him: In the other case, that he is not entitled to the
judgment of the court, although a verdict has been delivered in his favour. Like the motion for judgment non
obstante veredicto, that in arrest of judgment must always
be grounded upon something apparent on the face of the
pleadings." To the same effect are 1 Chitty on Pleading,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

687; Stephen on Pleading, 96-98; Rand v. Vaughan, 1
Bing. N. C. 767; Pim v. Grazebrook, 2 C. B. 429, 444;
Schermerhorn v. Schermerhorn, 5 Wend. 513; Bellows v.
Shannon, 2 Hill, 86; McFerran v. McFerran, 69 Indiana,
29, 32; Lewis v. Foard, 112 N. Car. 402; Manning v. City
of Orleans, 42 Nebraska, 712; McCoy v. Jones, 61 Oh. St.
119, 129. In*Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S, 604, 608, and Van
Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Mfg. Co., 142 U. S. 128, 135,
this court, recognizing that this was the extent of the
common law practice, held that a motion in arrest of
judgment could not be sustained for an insufficiency in
the evidence, but only for a defect apparent on the face
of the record proper. Thus, it will be perceived that the
rules of the common law, permitting a judgment non
obstante veredicto and the arrest of judgment on a verdict,
did not embrace cases like the present, but only those in
which the pleadings presented no material issue requiring
a trial or verdict.
In the trial by jury, the right to which is secured by the
Seventh Amendment, both the court and the jury are
essential factors. To the former is committed a power of
direction and superintendence, and to the latter the ultimate determination of the issues of fact. Only through
the co6peration of the two, each acting within its appropriate sphere, can the constitutional right be satisfied.
And so, to dispense with either or to permit one to disregard the province of the other is to impinge on that right.
This was plainly recognized in Barney v. Schmeider,
9 Wall. 248, decided in 1869. That was an action in
assumpsit, in which the defendant pleaded the general
issue. The trial in the Circuit Court was before a jury,
and the evidence consisted of the testimony taken a few
days before on another trial.' This testimony was voluminous and was put in with the consent of the parties
and the approbation of the court. But it was not read
to the jury, because the court regarded it as necessarily

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

requiring a verdict for the plaintiff. In a charge briefly
referring to it and explaining why it was not read, the court
instructed the jury that their verdict should be for the
plaintiff, and the defendant excepted. Such a verdict
was returned and judgment was given on it. This court
reversed the judgment, and Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion, referred to the constitutional right to a
trial by jury and said, inter alia (pp. 251, 252):
"As the defendant in this case did not waive his right
to have the facts tried by a jury, it was the duty of the
court to submit such facts to the jury that was sworn to
try them. It is needless to say that this was not done.
The statement is clear that the case was decided upon
the testimony taken on a former trial, and not read before
this jury, because the court had heard it in the first case,
and did not deem it necessary to be heard by the jury in
this case.
"It is possible to have a jury trial in which the plaintiff,
having failed to offer any evidence at all, or any competent
evidence, the jury finds for the defendant for that very
reason. And in such case it is strictly correct, if the plaintiff does not take a non-suit, for the court to instruct the
jury to find for the defendant.
"But we have never before heard of a case in which the
jury were permitted, much less instructed, to find a verdict for the plaintiff on evidence of which they knew
nothing except -what is detailed to them in the charge of
the court. It is obvious that if such a verdict can be
supported here, when the very act of the court in doing
this is excepted to and relied on as error, the trial by jury
may be preserved in name, but will be destroyed in its
essential value, and become nothing but the machinery
through which the court exercises the functions of a jury
without its responsibility.
"It is insisted with much ingenuity that in this case
there was no disputed fact for the jury to pass upon, and

OCTOBER TERM. 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

that the only issue in the case being one of law, it was
proper for the court to dispose of it. If this were so, the
instruction of the court might be. sustained, provided the
undisputed facts necessary to sustain the verdict had been
submitted to the jury."
A case much in point is Hodges v. Easton, 106 U. S. 408,
decided in 1882, It was an action in trover, wherein the
-allegations of the complaint were all put in issue by the
answer. On a trial by jury in the Circuit Court a special
verdict was returned consisting of .responses to interrogatories specially propounded by the court but not embracing all the issues presented by the pleadings. Following the reception of the verdict the plaintiffs moved
for judgment in their favor, and the defendants for a new
trial on the ground that the verdict did not dispose of all
the issues. After hearing these motions the court refused
to grant a new trial, and ,gave judgment for the plaintiffs
on "the special verdict of the jury,'and facts conceded or
not disputed upon the trial." . When the case came here
the defendants complained that their constitutional right
to a trial by jury had been violated, and the plaintiffs
insisted that the Circuit Court had but conformed to the
local practice sanctioned by numerous decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State where the Circuit Court was
held, and that it therefore should be presumed, nothing
appearing to the contrary, that the 'special verdict and
the facts conceded or not disputed upon the trial disposed
of all the issues presented by the pleadings and justified
the action of the Circuit Court. Responding to these
contentions this court said, speaking through' Mr. Justice Harlan (pp. 411, 412):
"It is not necessary, in this opinion, to enter upoD an
eXamination of those decisions, or to consider how far the
local Jaw controls in determining either the essential requisites of a special verdict in the courts of the United
States, or the conditions under which a judgment will be

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

presumed to have been supported by facts other than
those set out in a special verdict. The difficulty we have
arises from other considerations. The record discloses
that the jury determined a part of the facts, while other
facts, upon which the final judgment was rested, were
found by the court to have been conceded or not disputed. .
.
We then have a case at law, which the
jury were sworn to try, determined, as to certain material
facts, by the court alone, without a waiver of jury trial
as to such facts. It was the province of the jury to pass
upon the issues of fact, and the right of the defendants
to have this done was secured by the Constitution of the
United States. They might have waived that right, but
it could not be taken away by the court. Upon the trial,
if all the facts essential to a recovery were undisputed, or if
they so conclusively established the cause of action as to
have authorized the withdrawal of the case altogether
from the jury, by a peremptory instruction to find for
plaintiffs, it would still have been necessary that the jury
make its verdict, albeit in conformity with the order of
the court. The court could not, consistently with the
constitutional right of trial by jury, submit a part of the
facts to the jury, and, itself, determine the remainder
without a waiver by the defendants of a verdict by the
jury.
It has been often said by this court that
the trial by jury is a fundamental guatantee of the rights
and liberties of the people. Consequently, every reasonable presumption should be indulged against its waiver.
For these reasons the judgment below must be reversed."
Even more in point is Baylis v. Travellers' Insurance
Co., 113.U. S. 316, decided in 1885. It was an action on a
policy of accident insurance, and on the trial before a jury
in the Circuit Court the parties differed as to whether the
plaintiff's evidence was sufficient to sustain a verdict in
her favor, no evidence being 'presented by the defendant.
The court directed a verdict fer the plaintiff, subject to
VOL. ccxxviii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

its opinion on the sufficiency of the evidence, and the jury
conformed to that direction. On further consideration,
and construing the evidence in a manner deemed most
favorable to the plaintiff, the court ruled that it was
insufficient, because admitting of but one conclusion,
namely, that the insured's death resulted from a cause not
covered by the policy. Judgment was then given for the
defendant notwithstanding the verdict, and the plaintiff
brought the case here. The judgment was reversed, with
directions to grant a new trial, for reasons stated by Mr.
Justice Matthews as follows (pp. 320, 321)"
'If, after the plaintiff's case had been closed, the court
had directed a verdict for the defendant on the ground
that the evidence, with all inferences that the jury could
justifiably draw from -it, was insufficient to support a
verdict for the plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned,
must be set aside, it would have followed a practice sanctioned by repeated decisions of this court. Randall v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478, and cases there
cited. And, in that event, the plaintiff, having duly
excepted to the ruling in a bill of exceptions, setting out
all the evidence, upon a writ of error, would have been
entitled to the judgment of this court, whether, as a
matter of law, the ruling against him was erroneous.
"Or, if in the present case, a verdict having been taken
for the plaintiff by direction of the court, subject to its
opinion whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain it,
the court had subsequently granted a motion on behalf of
the defendant for a new trial, and set aside the verdict,
on the ground of the insufficiency of the evidence, it would
have followed a common practice, in respect to which error
could not have been alleged, or it might, with propriety,
have reserved the question, what judgment should be
rendered, and in favor of what party, upon an agieed
statement of facts, and afterwards rendered judgment
upon its conclusions of law. But, without a waiver of

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
'28 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the right of trial by jury, by consent of parties, the court
errs if it substitutes itself for the jury, and, passing upon
the effect of the evidence, finds the facts involved in the
issue and renders judgment thereon.
"This was what was done in the present case. It may
be that the conclusions of fact reached and stated by the
court are correct, and, when properly ascertained, that
they require such a judgment as was rendered. That is
a question not before us. The plaintiff in error complains
that he was entitled to have the evidence submitted to
the jury, and to the benefit of such conclusions of fact as
it might justifiably have drawn; a right he demanded and
did not waive; and that he has been deprived of it, by the
act of the court, in entering a judgment against him on its
own view of the evidence, without the intervention of a
jury. In this particular, we think error has been well
assigned.
"The right of trial by jury in the courts of the United
States is expressly secured by the Seventh Article of
Amendment to the Constitution, and Congress has, by
statute, provided for the trial of issues of fact in civil
cases by the court without. the intervention of a jury,
only when the parties waive their right to a jury by a
stipulation in writing. Rev. Stat., §§ 648, 649.
"This constitutional right this court has always guarded
with jealousy. Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469; De Wolf v.
Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476; Castle v. Bullard, 23 How. 172; Hodges
v. Easton, 106 U. S.408."
In principle, these cases are decisive of the question
arising on the motion for judgment on the evidence notwithstanding the verdict. They show that it is the province of the jury to hear the evidence and by their verdict
to settle the issues of fact, no matter what the state of the
evidence, and -that while it is the province of the court to
aid the jury in the right discharge of their duty, even to
the extent of directing their verdict where the insufficiency

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Couft.

228 U. S.

or conclusive character of the evidence warrants such a
direction, the court cannot dispense with a verdict, or
disregard one when given, and itself pass on the issues of
fact. In other words, the constitutional guaranty operates
to require that the issues be settled by the verdict of a
jury, unless the right thereto be waived. It is not a question of whether the facts are difficult or easy of ascertainment, but of the tribunal charged with their ascertainment, and this, we have seen, consists of the court and
jury, unless.there be a waiver of the latter.
But the suggestion is made that sufficient warrant for
setting aside the verdict and rendering judgment on the
evidence without a new trial is to be found in the rules of
the common law in respect of demurrers to evidence and
nonsuits. It therefore will be well to see what those rules
were and whether they support the suggestion.
The leading English cases dealing with demurrers to
evidence as employed at common law are Middleton v.
Baker, Cro. Eliz. 752; Wright v. Pindar, Aleyn, 18; S. C.,
Style, 34, and Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. Bla. 187, 205. The
last, which adhered to the principle of the other two, was
much considered in the House of Lords, and the opinion
delivered by Lord Chief Justice Eyre,, who spoke for all
the judges, was to the following effect: (a) A demurrer to
the evidence is a proceeding whereby the court, whose
province it is to answer all questions of law, is called upon
to declare what the law is "upon the facts shewn in evidence," and, "in the nature of the thing, the question of
law to arise out of the fact, cannot arise until the fact is
ascertained."
(b) Such a demurrer is permissible only
when proposed by one party, joined in by the other and
allowed by the court. It must contain an express and
distinct admission by the demurrant of every fact which
the evidence of his adversary conduces to prove, else he
cannot insist that the latter join in the demurrer; and the
admission, to be effective to that end, must be of the facts,

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and not merely the evidence from which their existence is
inferable. (c) When the matter of fact is so ascertained
and shown in the demurrer, the case is deemed ripe for
judgment in matter of law, and the jury properly may be
discharged from giving a verdict.
This statement of the true office and use of a demurrer
to evidence was both accepted and applied by this court
in Fowle v. Alexandria, 11 Wheat. 320, decided in 1826.
There the court below had sustained such a demurrer,
which merely set forth and admitted the evidence as
introduced at the trial, as well the testimony of witnesses
as written documents. We excerpt the following from the
opinion, which was by Mr. Justice Story (pp. 321, 322,
323):
"There is no joinder in demurrer on the record, which is
probably a mere defect in the transcript, as the court
proceeded to give judgment upon. the demurrer in favor
of the defendants. Without a joinder in demurrer, no
such judgment could be properly entered; and such
joinder ought not to have been required or permitted while
there was any matter of fact in controversy between the
parties. . . . The true and proper object of such a
demurrer is to refer to the court the law arising from facts.
It supposes, therefore, the facts to be already admitted
and ascertained, and that nothing remains but for the
court to apply the law to those facts. . . . Indeed,
the case made for a demurrer to evidence, is, in many
respects, like a special verdict. It is to state facts, and not
merely testimony which may conduce to prove them.
It is to admit whatever the jury may reasonably infer
from the evidence, and not merely the circumstances which
form a ground of presumption.
Upon examination of the case at bar, it will be at once perceived that
the demurrer to evidence, tried by the principles already
stated, is fatally defective. The defendants have demurred, not to facts, but to evidence of facts; not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opiuion of the Court.

228 U. S.

positive admissions, but to mere circumstances of presumption introduced on the other side."
And that this was not a new doctrine in this court is
shown in Young v. Black, 7 Cranch, 565, 568, decided
thirteen years before, where, in declining to disturb the
action of the court below in refusing to compel a joinder
in a demurrer to the evidence, it was said: "The party
demurring is bound to admit as true, not only all the
facts proved by the evidence introduced by the other
party, but also all the facts which that evidence legally
may conduce to prove. It follows that it [the demurrer]
ought never to be admitted where the party demurring
refuses to admit the facts which the other side attempts to
prove; and it would be as little justifiable where he offers
contradictory evidence, or attempts to establish inconsistent propositions."
True, in United States Bank v. Smith, 11 Wheat. 171,
and Columbian Insurance Co. v. Catlett, 12 Wheat. 383,
389, the rule that the demurrer should set forth the facts
rather than the evidence from which they are inferable
was not strictly enforced, but in each of those cases the
opposite party voluntarily joined I in the demurrer,
thereby consenting that the case be withdrawn from the
jury and submitted to the court on the evidence embodied
in the demurrer; so, they are without bearing here, save
as the opinions contain some observations making strongly
for the views expressed in Fowle v. Alexandria. Thus, in
United States Bank v. Smith, the demurrer Was criticised
as substituting the court in the place of the jury, which,
while true of the demurrer there, would hot be true of one
rightly drafted and allowed; and in Columbian Insurance
Co. v. Catlett, it was said: "The plaintiff was not bound
to have joined in the demurrer without the defendant's
1 In United States Bank v. Smith the joinder is shown in the record,
although not mentioned in the opinion. It also is shown in the report
of the decision of the lower court. 1 Fed. Cas. 733.

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

having distinctly admitted, upon the record, every fact
which the evidence introduced on his behalf conduced to
prove; and that when the joinder was made, without
insisting on this preliminary, the court is at liberty to
draw the same inferences in favor of the plaintiff, which
the jury might have drawn."
Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch, 219, and Chinoweth
v. Haskell, 3 Pet. 92, are also cases in which, as shown by
the record, there was a voluntary joinder in the demurrer.
In the former the record, after setting forth the demurrer,
shows this order: "Wherefore let the jury aforesaid be
discharged by the court here, by the assent of the parties,
from giving any verdict."
The doctrine stated in Gibson v. Hunter, and recognized
by this court in Young v. Black and Fowle v. Alexandria,
has been applied not only in the lower Federal courts but
in several of the state courts. Pickel v. Isgrigg, 6 Fed.
Rep. 676; Johnson v. United States, 13 Fed. Cas. 868, 872;
Miller v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 17 Fed. Cas. 304; Pattyv.
Edelin, 18 Fed. Cas. 1344; Copeland v. New EnglandInsurance Co., 22 Pick. 135; Golden v. Knowles, 120 Massachusetts, 336; Dormady v. State Bank, 2 Scam. 236; Ware v.
McQuillan, 54 Mississippi, 703; Ingram v. Jacksonville
Street R. Co., 43 Florida, 324; Bass v. Rublee, 76 Vermont,
395, 401; Chapize v. Bane, 1 Bibb, 612; Sawyer v. Fitts, 2
Port. 9.
At common law, if on a demurrer to the evidence judgment was given for one party when' it. should have been
for the other, the error was corrected in the appellate
tribunal by directing the proper judgment, and this because the error was confined to the judgment, and did
not reach the facts as ascertained and shown in the demurrer. But when the reversal was for error in allowing
the demurrer, the latter necessarily went for naught, and,
as there remained no ascertained facts on which to base
a judgment, a new trial was deemed essential. Thus in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Gibson v. Hunter, supra,one of the questions was, whether,
considering the state of the evidence and the admissions
in the demurrer, the plaintiff was obliged to join in it.
The question was resolved in the negative, and, as this
eliminated the demurrer on which judgment had been
given in the court of King's Bench, the judgment of reversal was accompanied by a direction for a new trial.
And in Fowle v. Alexandria, supra, where this court ruled
that the. demurrer ought not to have been allowed, the
judgment rendered thereon was reversed with a like direction. So, in the present case when the verdict was set
aside there remained no ascertained facts on which a
judgment might be rested, and that made a new trial
necessary.
Enough has been said to make it plain, as we think,
that there was nothing in the nature or operation of the
demurrer to evidence at common, law which has any
tendency to show that issues of fact tried by a jury could
be reixamined otherwise than on a new trial.
We come, then, to the other branch of the suggestion.
A nonsuit at common law was a dismissal of the plaintiff's
action without an adjudication, other than the imposition
of costs, and constituted no bar to another action for the
same cause. Originally granted where the plaintiff made
default when his presence was required, or otherwise
failed to proceed in due course, it came to be applied on the
trial when, although actually present, he chose, in view
of the state of his evidence, not to risk an adverse verdict.
But unless he assented to being nonsuited on the evidence
it was essential that a verdict be taken, even although it
was certain to be against him. In other words, such a
nonsuit was always voluntary, and never compulsory.
Mr. Starkie says of this proceeding: "The doctrine of
nonsuits is founded on the ancient practice, according to
which the plaintiff was bound by himself or his attorney
to appear at the trial, prosecute his suit, and hear the. ver-

SLOCUM v. NEW'YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

393

Opinion of the Court.

dict; and' in case, after being called, he made default, he
was decreed to have abandoned his suit, and was nonsuitedl.
This ancient practice has long been used as the medium
by which the court intimates an opinion that the plaintiff
has not made out a sufficient case for the consideration of
the jury. The plaintiff is therefore formally called, although by himself or his counsel he has actually appeared
in court. In conformity, however, with the old practice,
being called, he may if he choose appear, and if he do, the
case must go to the jury." Starkie Ev. 806, 4th London ed.
In the course of a similar statement, Mr. Tidd says: "The
plaintiff in no case is compellable to be nonsuited; and
therefore, if he insist upon the matter being left to the
jury, they must give in their verdict, which is general or
special." 2 Tidd's Pr. 796, 1807 ed. Mr. Lilly describes
the office and nature of the proceeding as follows: "Nonsuit is when a man brings a personal action, and doth not
prosecute it with effect, or else upon the trial refuses to
stand a verdict; then he becomes nonsuited, which is
recorded by the court, and the defendant recovers his
costs against him." "The court cannot compel the plaintiff to appear and stand a verdict; but if the plaintiff
appears, or his counsel or attorney appears for him, he
cannot be afterwards nonsuit, but the jury must deliver.
in their verdict." 2 Lil. Reg. 230, 231, 1719 ed. And
Mr. Chitty says: "A nonsuit must always be voluntary,
i.e. by the plaintiff's counsel submitting to the same or
not appearing, and in no case can it be adverse or without
implied consent." 3 Chitty's Gen. Pr. 910. To the same,
effect are 3 Bl. Com. 376, 377; Dewar v. Purday, 3 Ad.
& E. 166, 170; Corsarv. Reed, 21 L. J. R. (N. S.) Q. B. 18;
Stancliffe v. Clark, 21 L. J. R. (N. S.) Exch. 129; Minchin
v. Clement, 1 B. & Ald. 252. In the last case the court, on
ruling that a verdict theretofore given for the plaintiff
could not be sustained, was requested to order a nonsuit
instead of a new trial; but the request was denied, Lord

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Ellenborough, C. J., observing: "It is in the plaintiff's
option to be nonsuited or not."
The question whether a compulsory nonsuit could be
ordered on the evidence was presented to this court in 1828
in Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469, a case in which the Circuit Court, conceiving that the plaintiff's evidence was
insufficient to sustain a verdict in his favor, had nonsuited him without his assent. Speaking for all the members of this court but one, Chief Justice Marshall disposed of the question by saying (p. 471): "The Circuit
Court had no authority to order a peremptory nonsuit,
against the will of the plaintiff. He had a right by law
to a trial by a jury, and to have had the case submitted
to them. He might agree to a nonsuit; but if he did not
so choose, the court could not compel him to submit to
it." The decision in that case was approved and reaffirmed in D'Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476, 497; Crane v.
Morris, 6 Pet. 598, 609, where Mr. Justice Story said the
point was not longer "open for controversy;" Silsby v.
Foote, 14 How. 218, 222, and Castle v. Bullard, 23 How.
172, 183.
It being thus certain that the common law rules in respect of nonsuits recognized that the plaintiff had a right
to have the verdict of the jury taken, which he could waive
or assert at his option, it follows that those rules give no
support to the suggestion before mentioned.
In what has been said we would not be understood as
implying that a motion for a compulsory nonsuit and a
demurrer to the evidence are equivalents of a request for
a directed verdict, for while they are sometimes spoken
of as analogous to it, this only means that for the purpose
of each the evidence must be taken most strongly in
favor of the opposite party. In other respects they are
essentially unlike. A motion for a compulsory nonsuit
looks to an arrest of the trial and a dismissal of the cause,
leaving the merits undetermined and the plaintiff free

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to sue again, while a request for a directed verdict looks
to a completion of the trial and an adjudication of the
merits through the accustomed cooperation of the court
and jury. Full recognition of this, as also of its bearing
here, is found in Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261, 264,
where it is said: "The difference in the two modes is rather
a matter of form than of substance, except in the case of a
nonsuit a new action may be brought, whereas in the case of a
verdict the action is ended, unless a new trial be granted
either upon motion or upon appeal."
Equally pronounced is the difference between a demurrer to the evidence and a request for a directed verdict; for if on such a demurrer, properly joined in and
allowed, judgment is not given for the demurrant, it is.
necessarily given for his opponent, while if a request for a
directed verdict is denied the party making the request
may yet receive the jury's verdict and a judgment thereon.
And when a judgment on a demurrer to the evidence is
reversed because given for the wrong party, the error is
corrected by ordering a judgment for the other party,
whereas when a judgment is reversed for error in granting
or refusing a request to direct a verdict, judgment is not
ordered for either party, but a new trial is awarded. This
was so at common law, and it has been the uniform course
of action in this court from the beginning. These distinctions are so substantial as to show that the suggested
analogy is far from complete.
We come now to two decisions in this court which, although not involving the real question here, namely, the
power of a Federal court to reexamine, otherwise than
according to the rules of the common law, issues of fact
which have been determined by the verdict of a jury, yet
have su-h an indirect bearing thereon that they ought
not to be passed unnoticed.
In Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman's Palace Car
Co., 139 U. S. 24, 38, a case coming here from the eastern

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

district of Pennsylvania, it appeared that on a trial to the
Circuit Court and a jury the court, following a statutd of
the State, had entered a compulsory nonsuit which, according to the state law, terminated that suit but was not
an adjudication of the merits or a bar to another suit on the
same cause of action. This court, deeming it important
to notice the question of its own jurisdiction, proceeded
to inquire whether such a judgment was subject to review
on writ of error, and in the course of the inquiry expressed
the opinion that the state statute established a practice or
mode of procedure which the conformity provisions of the
Federal statutes required the Circuit Court to follow.
But it was stated that the question was "not mentioned
by counsel in argument," and, as the opinion contains
no reference to the right of trial by jury or to the Seventh
Amendment, it well may be that the bearing of the latter
on the applicability of the state statute to the trial in the
Circuit Court was not actually considered.
The other case is Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U. S. 301,
which originated in a territorial court, where the Seventh
Amendment was applicable. On a trial by jury a compulsory nonsuit was entered according to a local statute,
for an insufficiency in the plaintiff's evidence, without
prejudice to his right to sue again, and when the case came
here the judgment was affirmed, it being directly held
that granting such a nonsuit does not infringe the constitutional right.
Of these two cases it is to be observed: (1) Although
they hold, one by implication and the other expressly,
that the constitutional right of trial by jury is not invaded
by a statute authorizing the court to enter a compulsory
nonsuit against a plaintiff for an insufficiency in his evidence, when he is not thereby prevented from suing again
on the same cause of action, they neither hold nor suggest
that, consistently with that right, the court can refuse
'to take the verdict of the jury, or disregard it when taken,

SLOCUM v. NEW YORKLIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and enter a binding judgment on the evidence. (2) Assuming, without so deciding, that they should be accepted
and followed in respect of the particular matter to whichi
they are addressed, that is, the granting of an involuntary
nonsuit which leaves the merits unadjudicated, they af-

ford no justification whatever for overruling or departing
from the repeated decisions of this court, reaching back
to the beginning of the last century, wherein it uniformly
has been held (a) that we must look to the common law
for a definition of the nature and extent of the right of
trial by jury which the Constitution declares "shall be
preserved;" (b) that the right so preserved is the right
to have the issues of fact presented by the pleadings tried
by a jury of twelve, under the direction and superintendence of the court; (c) that the rendition of a verdict is of
the substance of the right, because to dispense with a
verdict is to eliminate the jury which is no less a part of
the tribunal charged with the trial than is the court, and
(d) that when the issues have been so tried and a verdict
rendered they cannot be reexamined otherwise than on a
new trial granted by the court in which the first trial was
had or ordered by the appellate court for some error of
law affecting the verdict.
Coughran v. Bigelow recognizes that this is the true
conception of trial by jury, for it is there said (p. 307),
"if the evidence be not sufficient to warrant a recovery,
it is the duty of the court to instruct the jury accordingly,
and, if the jury disregard such instruction, to set aside
the verdict." Why instruct the jury in such a case if they
have no office to perform? Why contemplate that they
may not conform to the instruction if. it be immaterial
whether they do or not? And why take their verdict or
have any concern about it if none is required? The answers are given in prior decisions, which hold, as before
shown, that in such a case it is essential "that the jury
make its verdict, albeit in conformity with the order of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

court," and that if there be a verdict "the action is ended,
unless a new trial be granted either upon motion or upon
appeal."
Whether in a given case there is a right to a trial by
jury is to be determined by an inspection of the pleadings and not by an examination of the evidence. If the
pleadings present material issues of fact, either party is
entitled to have them tried to the court and a jury, and
this is as true of a second trial as of the first. Whether the
evidence is sufficient to sustain a verdict for one party or
the other is quite another matter and does not affect the
mode of trial, but only the duty of the court in instructing
the jury and of the latter in giving their verdict. The
issues to which the jury must respond are those presented
by the pleadings, and this whether the evidence be
disputed or undisputed and whether it be ample or
meagre. To speak, therefore, of the evidence as determinative of the right to a trial by jury is to confuse
the test of that right with a different test applicable only
in determining whether a particular verdict should be
directed.
In tle present case certain well-defined issues of fact
were presented by the pleadings, which the plaintiff, as
also the defendant, was entitled by the Constitution to
have tried to the court and a jury. Such a trial was had
and resulted in a general verdict resolving all the issues
in the plaintiff's favor. That verdict operated, under the
Constitution, to prevent a reexamination of the issues
save on a new trial granted by the trial court in the
exercise of its discretion or ordered by the appellate court
for error of law. At the trial the defendant requested
that a verdict in its favor be directed, and had the court
indicated its purpose to do that, it would have been open
to the plaintiff, under the then prevailing practice, to
take a voluntary nonsuit, which would have enabled her
to make a fuller and better presentation of her case, if

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the facts permitted, at another trial in a new suit. But
the defendant's request being denied and a verdict being
returned for the plaintiff, she recovered a judgment. That
judgment the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
rightly so, because the defendant's request, in the state
of the evidence, ought, as matter of law, to have been
granted. The reversal operated to set aside the verdict
and to put the issues at large, as they were before it was
given. But, instead of ordering a new trial, as was required at common law, the Circuit Court of Appeals itself
reexamined the issues, resolved them in favor of the
defendant, and directed judgment accordingly. This we
hold could not be done consistently with the Seventh
Amendment, which not only preserves the cominon
law right of trial by jury, but expressly forbids that
issues of fact settled by such a trial shall be reexamined
otherwise than "according to the rules of the common
law."
To the suggestion that in so holding we are but adhering
to a mere rule of procedure at common law there is a twofold answer: First, the terms of the Amendment and the
circumstances of its adoption unmistakably show that one
of its purposes was to require adherence to that rule, which
in long years of practice had come to be regarded as
essential to the full realization of the right of trial by
jury; and, second, the right to a new trial in a case such
as this, on the vacation of a favorable verdict secured from
a jury, is a matter of substance and not of mere form, for
it gives opportunity, as before indicated, to present
evidence which may not have been available or known
before, and also to expose any error or untruth in the
opposing evidence. As is said in Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. 3, p. 391: "A new trial is a rehearing of the
cause before 'another jury. . . . The parties come
better informed, the counsel better prepared, the law is
more fully understood, the judge is more master of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting. 228 U. S.

subject; and nothing is now tried but the real merits of the
case."

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly modified by eliminating the direction to enter judgment for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict, and
by substituting a directionfor a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, with
HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE LURTON

whom concur MR. Justice
and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,

dissenting.

I concur in the decision of the court so far as it holds
that the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in reversing
the judgment; but I am unable to agree with the conclusion that the Circuit Court of Appeals was bound to
order a new trial, and was without power, under the
Seventh Amendment, to follow the state practice in
directing the entry of the judgment to which, as matter of
law, the defendant was entitled.
The serious and far-reaching consequences of this
decision are manifest. Not only does it overturn the
established practice of the Federal courts in Pennsylvania
in applying, under the Conformity Act, the provisions of
the state law, but it erects an impassable barrier-unless
the Constitution be amended-to action by Congress
along the same line for the purpose of remedying the mischief of repeated trials and of thus diminishing in a highly
important degree the delays and expense of litigation.
It cannot be gainsaid that such a conclusion is not to be
reached unless the constitutional provision compels it.
I cannot see that it. does compel it. On the contrary,
I submit, with the utmost respect, that the Pennsylvania
practice adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals, is
entirely in conformity with the Seventh Amendment.
What, then, is this case? It was an action upon a policy
of insurance. It was triable by jury, but the province of

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

the jury was to decide questions of fact, not questions of
law. This court concludes, as did the Court of Appeals,
that "the evidence did not admit of a finding that the
policy was in force at the time of the insured's death."
In other words, after the plaintiff had had full opportunity
to present her case and to show facts for the consideration
of the jury, and the case on both sides had been closed, it
appeared that there were no facts whatever upon which
the jury would be warranted in finding a verdict in her
favor. Hence, says this court, the defendant was entitled to a direction of a verdict in its favor, as it requested.
Had the trial court rightly applied the law, the case would
properly have ended in a final judgment for the defendant.
But the trial court erred in the law, and consequently
the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff-not upon facts
but without any facts upon which they could rest it. Now
it is said that a statute which permits the trial court or the
appellate court, after that wrongful verdict, to correct the
error, and in so doing not only to set aside the verdict
but to direct the entry of the judgment to which the
defendant in law was entitled is, as applied to a case in the
Federal court, contrary to the Constitution.
The Seventh Amendment provides that "no fact tried
by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of
the United States, than according to the rules of the common law." But, wherein has any matter of fact tried by
a jury been refxamined? Concededly, there was no fact
to be tried by a jury; the case as made was barren of any
such fact; and there being none, there has been no reexamination of it. How can it be said that the Circuit
Court of Appeals has determined the facts or has passed
upon issues of fact? Whether there was any evidence for
the jury was a question of law. The trial court, in wrongly
deciding it, did not convert it into a question of fact; it
was not altered by the verdict, but remained the same in its
nature--a question for the determination of the court.
VOL.

ccxxviii-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting. 228 U. S.

That, it seems to me, is the substance of the matter, and
all else is form and procedure. Whether in such a case, on
the error being shown, a new trial should be ordered, or
whether the litigation should be ended by a prompt entry
of the judgment which should have followed a right decision in the first instance, is a matter to be governed by the
applicable rules of practice; but, as I view it, it is not a
matter withdrawn from legislative control by the constitutional provision for trial by jury, which is concerned
with the settlement of disputes of fact and not with the
determination of legal questions or with the consequences
which should ensue when that determination is decisive
of the right of recovery on the case made.
It is well to note what has been ruled in the Third Circuit upon. this precise question. For the practice was
there deliberately adopted after careful consideration. It
has commended itself to the bench and bar as a salutary
measure making for the improvement of the administration of justice. And, it should be observed that the constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, where the practice
obtains, also provides that the right of trial by jury shall
remain inviolate. (See Const. Pa. 1776; Declaration of
Rights, XI; 1790, Art. IX, § 6; 1838, Art. IX, § 6; 1873,
Art. I, §6.) In Smith v. Jones, 181 Fed. Rep. 819, 823,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for that circuit thus reviewed
the matter:
"The practice of entering judgments non obstante veredicto has long existed in Pennsylvania, and it enables the
case to be concluded by a verdict, while the entry of judgment thereon is made dependent on the court's opinion
on a reserved question of law. This permits the judge to
give to the decisive law question on which a case turns a
more careful examination than he can do in the stress
of trial. Moreover, if an appellate court on review of such
judgment finds error, it can reverse and direct entry of
judgment for the other party and avoid a retrial. Long

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

experience in this practice has convinced the bar and
bench of the State of its value in conducing to a more
careful and deliberate consideration of the law by the trial
judge and to the avoidance of retrials. The practice in
Pennsylvania is of statutory origin, as stated by Judge
Acheson in Casey v. Pennsylvania Asphalt Co. (C. C.),
109 Fed. Rep. 746, adopted in 114 Fed. Rep. 189, 52 C.
C. A. 145, and the principles involved in its application
are set out in Fisher v. Sharadin, 186 Pa. St. 568, 40 Atl.
Rep. 1091, and Boyle v. Mahanoy City, 187 Pa. St. 1, 40
Atl. Rep. 1093. Under the Conformity Act this practice
has long been followed in the Federal courts in Pennsylvania and met with the approval of this court in Carstairs
v. American Bondilig & Trust Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 449, 54
C. C. A. 85."
In the Carstairs Case to which the court thus refers,
decided over ten years ago, the action was brought in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
upon a policy of fidelity insurance. The defendant asked
for a binding instruction. The court reserving that question, submitted the case to the jury which found a verdict
for the plaintiff. After argument, the court concluded
that the defendant was right, that there was no case for
the jury and hence set aside the verdict and directed judgment for the defendant upon the point reserved. 112
Fed. Rep. 620. The Court of Appeals sustained this action of the Circuit Court (116 Fed. Rep. 449), Circuit
Judge Gray delivering the opinion. There was, however,
a dissent by Circuit Judge Acheson, who thought the mode
of procedure was an unwarrantable departure from the
constitutional provision. (Id., p. 455.) This called forth
a concurring opinion from Circuit Judge Dallas, who
said (id., pp. 456-457):
"The judgihent here complained of was entered upon a
point which the learned trial judge reserved in these
words: 'I. reserve the question whether there is any evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMEb, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting. 228 U. S.

dence to go to the jury in support of the plaintiffs' claim.'
In our opinion, this was a good reservation. The Supreme
court of Pennsylvania has, after argument and reargument before a full bench, distinctly so decided (Fisher
v. Scharadin, 186 Pa. 565, 40 Atl. 1091; Boyle v. Borough of Mahanoy City, 187 Pa. 1, 40 Atl. 1093); and
within the knowledge of the writer, the Circuit Court
fer the Eastern district of Pennsylvania, from which this
case comes, has in a number of instances, and without
protest or disapproval in any, reserved precisely the same
point. Indeed, counsel in this cause appear to have regarded the practice as settled, for 'the record shows no
objection or any exception to the form of the reservation.'
Boyle v. Borough of Mahanoy City, supra. . . . But
in our opinion there is no substantial difference between
a judgment entered upon a directed verdict for defendant
and one entered in his favor notwithstanding a verdict
rendered for plaintiff, subject to the question whether
there was any evidence to warrant it. 'Whether there be
any evidence which entitles the plaintiff to recover is
necessarily a question of law' (Fisherv. Scharadin,supra);
and that question it is which, by either method of procedure, and with like effect in each, the court decides. No
encroachment is made upon the domain of the jury where
either course is pursued. Its province of finding facts
from evidence is not at all invaded. All that is adjudged
is that a verdict which is unsupported by any evidence
cannot properly be made the basis of a legal judgment;
and the soundness of this fundamental proposition is now,
we think, too well established to admit of question or to
be open to'debate."
See also Spencer v. Duplan Silk Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 638;
115 Fed. Rep. 689; 191 U. S. 526, 527, 532.
The practice which had been followed before the Carstairs Case, and was expressly sanctioned in that case,
continued to be observed. In 1905, the legislature of

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

Pennsylvania broadened it by permitting a reservation
not simply of leave to enter judgment for the defendant
but for either party when there was a request for binding
instructions. As the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
pointed out, in construing the statute, in Dalmas v. Kemble, 215 Pa. St. 410, it was not intended in any way to impair and did not impair the function of the jury to deal
with disputed questions of fact, but its purpose was to
facilitate the disposition of questions of law. It was
classed as one of the "practical reforms" instituted by
the State "for facilitating business without impairing
settled legal principles." It took account of the "growing
complexity of issues, the constantly increasing pressure
upon the trial lists, the taking of testimony in shorthand,
and the consequent hurry of trials;" and it promoted the
proper despatch of the work of the courts while conserving
the essential rights of suitors.
Chief Justice Mitchell, in delivering the opinion of the
court, said (id., pp. 411-413): "The act being so recent it
is important that it should be examined closely, and its
proper construction settled. Its terms are: 'Whenever
upon the trial of any issue, a point requesting binding
instructions has been reserved or declined, the party presenting the point may . . . move the court to have
all the evidence taken upon the trial duly certified and
filed, so as to become part of the record and for judgment
non obstante veredicto upon the whole record; whereupon
it shall be the duty of the court . .
to enter such
judgment as should have been entered upon that evidence.'
"This statute makes no radical innovation on the settled
line of distinction between the powers of the court and the
jury. It shows no intention to infringe, even if it could
constitutionally do so, the province of the jury to pass
upon the credibility of witnesses and the weight of oral
testimony. The court has long had authority to direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

a verdict for defendant when it was of opinion that the
plaintiff, even if all his evidence be believed, has failed to
make out his case. .
"The act of 1905 is another step in the same direction.
It broadens the power of the judge in this respect, that
whereas heretofore the verdict was required to be for the
plaintiff and the reservation to be of leave to enter judgment for the defendant non obstante, now what is reserved
is a request for binding direction to the jury and may be
for either plaintiff or defendant. But though thus enlarged so as to include both parties, the power of the judge
is the same as it was before. He is 'to enter such judgment as should have been entered upon that evidence,'
or in other words to treat the motion for judgment as if
it was a motion for binding directions at the trial, and to
enter judgment as if such direction had been given and
a verdict rendered in accordance. What the judge may
do is still the same in substance, but the time when he may
do it is enlarged so as to allow deliberate review and consideration of the facts and the law upon the whole evidence. If upon such consideration it shall appear that
a binding direction for either party would have been
proper at the close of the trial the court may enter judgment later with the same effect. But, on the other hand,
if it should appear that there was conflict of evidence on a
material fact, or any reason why there could not have
been a binding direction then there can be no judgment
against the verdict now. As already said there is no intent in the act to disturb the settled line of distinction
between the provinces of the court and the jury. The
act is capable of usefulness in allowing time for mature
consideration, but it should not be carried beyond its legitimate intent."
The provisions of this statute, as thus construed, were
applied in the Federal courts in Pennsylvania. The propriety of the practice was challenged' in Fries-Breslin.Co.

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES,

LURTON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

v. Bergen, 168 Fed. Rep. 360-364; 176 Fed. Rep. 76, 81;
and it was sustained by both the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Circuit Judge Gray, in delivering the opinion of the latter court, said:
"This Pennsylvania practice act has been referred to,
and has not infrequently been brought to the attention of
this court in cases where the granting or refusal of judgments non obstante veredicto have been the subjects of
review. The act enlarges the scope of the common law
motion for judgment for plaintiff, notwithstanding the
verdict for the defendant; by permitting it to be made by
either plaintiff or defendant, when the verdict is against
either. . It is in general a more convenient method, so far
as a defendant is concerned, of reaching practically the
same result as was sought by a motion for a compulsory
nonsuit, or for peremptory instructions at the close of the
evidence, or by a motion in arrest of judgment, made
by the defendant after the verdict or by the practice prevalent in the. Pennsylvania courts, of directing a verdict
for the plaintiff and reserving the question, whether there
is any evidence in the case entitling the plaintiff to recover.
We think, under the conformity provisions of section 914
of the Revised Statutes (U. S. Comp. St. 1901, p. 684),
the Circuit Court was required to recognize the practice authorized by the said Pennsylvania act of 1905,
there being nothing incongruous therein with the organization of the Federal courts or their settled rules of
procedure."
The plaintiff then petitioned this court for a writ of
certiorari,and one of the grounds stated was that the Circuit Court had no power to enter judgment for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict. The petition was denied.
Fries-Breslin Co., Petitioner, v. Bergen, 215 U. S. 609.
And the same practice has been followed since. Smith
v. Jones, supra. See also Pittsburgh Construction Co. v.
West Side Belt R. R. Co., 151 Fed. Rep. 125; 154 Fed. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LuRTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting. 228 U. S.

929; West Side Belt R. R. Co. v. PittsburghConstructionCo,,
219 U. S. 92, 96, 102.
The Seventh Amendment, it cannot be doubted, deals
with matters of substance and not with mere matters of
form. It guarantees the right of trial by jury, but it does
not raise forms of motions or merely modal details to the
dignity of constitutional rights. In numerous particulars,
common law practice has been altered by statute in many
'States and the new procedure of the so-called code States
has been followed, as near as may be, by virtue of the act
of Congress, ip the courts of the United States. When
the question is raised of invasion of the constitutional
right, we must always look to the substance of what is
'done and not to mere names or formal changes. It is of no
consequence that at common law the motion for judgment
nbn obstante veredicto was made only by the plaintiff, or
was granted on something apparent on the face of the
pleadings. We are not concerned with the mere use of
this or any other descriptive term.
The substantial thing is that the common law recognized
that the function of the jury was to deal with controversies
of fact. If there was a question of law, it was for the court.
The dominating idea, in overturning the practice below,
seems to be that at common law, if there was an issue of
fact upon the pleadings, the plaintiff was entitled to have
a verdict taken in any event; that is, if he did not voluntarily take a nonsuit, it was essential that a verdict be
rendered, notwithstanding that upon the evidence there
was no question of fact for the jury.
This would seem to be a misconception of the fundamental principles of the common law with respect to jury
trials and to result from unjustified implications from the
practice as to nonsuits as well as from a failure to regard
the full scope and iru'port of common law procedure.
It is not a new thing that a party should be able to
challenge the legal sufficiency of the evidence adduced

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.

228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

against him and call upon the court to answer the question
of law whether upon the facts shown there should be a
recovery, nor is it a new thing that when he does so the
court should give judgment without the intervention of
the jury, and if the trial court errs in its ruling upon the
law, the reviewing court should set the matter right and
order the proper judgment to be entered.
This was accomplished by demurring to the evidence.
This was a proceeding by which the judges of the court
were called upon to declare what. the law was upon the
facts shown in evidence. It was analogous to the demurrer upon the facts alleged in pleading. The reason, it is
said, for demurring to the evidence, was that the jury,
if they pleased, might refdse to find a special verdict, and
then the facts would not appear upon the record. The
party demurring had to admit the truth of all the evidence
against him; and if this were circumstantial, he was bound
to admit every fact in favor of his adversary which the
circumstances might tend to prove. Unless he did so, the
other party was not bound to join in the demurrer. If,
however, the demurrer was in proper form and embraced
all the requisite concessions, the other party was bound to
join. The result was that there was nothing left for the
consideration of the jury, and the usual practice was to
discharge it, although it was recognized as proper for the
jury to assess the damages conditionally subject to the
determination of the demurrer. 2 Tidd's Pr. *865-*867.
This matter was reviewed by the House of Lords in the
leading case of Gibson v. Hunter, 2 H. Bl. 187, decided in
the year 1793, where Lord Chief Justice Eyre, in delivering
the answer of the judges, said: "All our books agree, that
if a matter of record, or other matter in writing, be offered
in evidence in maintenance of an issue joined between
the parties, the adverse party may insist upon the jury
being discharged from giving a verdict, by demurring to
the evidence, and obliging the party offering the evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HoLMES, LURTON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

to join in demurrer. He cannot refuse to join in demurrer,
he must join or waive the evidence. Our books also agree,
that if parol evidence be offered, and the adverse party
demurs, he who offers the evidence may join in demurrer
if he will. We are therefore thus far advanced, that the
demurrer to evidence is not necessarily confined to written
evidence. The language of our books is very indistinct
upon the question, whether the party offering parol
evidence should be obliged to join in demurrer. Why is he
obliged to join in demurrer, when the evidence which he
offered is in writing? The reason is given in Croke's
report of Baker's Case,' because, says the book, 'there.
cannot be any variance of matter in writing.' Parol evidence
is sometimes certain, and no more admitting of any
variance than a matter in writing, but it is also often loose
and indeterminate, often circumstantial. The reason for
obliging the party offering evidence in writing, to join
in demurrer, applies to the first sort of parol evidence,
but it does not apply to parol- evidence which is loose and
indeterminate, which may be urged with more or less
effect to a jury, and least of all will it apply to evidence of
circumstances, which evidence is meant to operate beyond
the proof of the existence of those circumstances, and to
conduce to the proof of the existence of other facts. And
yet if there can be no demurrer in such cases, there will
be no consistency in the doctrine of demurrers to evidence,
by which the application of the law to the fact on an issue
is meant to be withdrawn from a jury, and transferred to
the judges. If the party who demurs will admit the
evidence of the fact, the evidence of which fact is loose
and indeterminate, or in the case of circumstantial evidence, if he will admit the existence of the fact, which the
circumstances offered in evidence conduce to prove, there
will then be no more variance in this parol evidence, than
I Cro. Eliz. 753,

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

in a matter in writing; and the reasons for compelling the
party who offers the evidence to join in demurrer, will then
apply, and the doctrine of demurrers to evidence will be
uniform and consistent. That this is the regular course of
proceeding, in respect to parol evidence of the nature I
have been describing, I think may be collected from the
known case upon this subject, Baker's Case. There is also
another case, Wright v. Pindar, as it stands reported in
Aleyn's Reports,' which carries the doctrine further, and
home to every case of evidence circumstantial in its nature, affording ground for a conclusion of fact from fact;
and the two cases taken together, I think, prove satisfactorily, that the course is that which I have already
supposed, and which w6uld remove all the difficulties
that are in the way of obliging the party to join in demurrer upon parol evidence. Baker's Case, after stating that
the party must join in demurrer, or waive his evidence,
where a matter in writing is shewn in evidence, goes on
thus: 'If the Plaintiff produces witness to prove any
matter in fact upon which a matter of law arises, if the
defendant admits their testimony to be true, there also
the defendant may demur in law upon it, but then he ought
to admit the evidence given by the plaintiff to be true.'
Those cases have very carefully marked the precise ground,
upon which a party may demur to evidence; and prove
that if a party may demur, the other party must join in
demurrer. According to Aleyn's Report of *the case of
Wright v. Pindar, which case underwent very serious
consideration, it was resolved, that he that demurs upon
'the evidence, ought to confess the whole matter of fact
to be true, and not to refer that to the judgment of the
court; and if the matter of fact be uncertainly alleged, or
that it be doubtful whether it be true or no, because offered to
be proved only, by presumptions or probabilities, and the
'Al. 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LUETON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

other party demurs thereupon, he that alleges this matter,
cannot join in demurrer with him, but ought to pray the
judgment of the court, that he may not be admitted to his
demurrer, unless he will confess the matter of fact to be true.'
It seems to follow as a necessary conclusion, that if he will
confess the matter of fact to be true, there he is to be admitted to his demurrer, and that if he is admitted, the
other party must join in demurrer. My Lords, it is said
in some of our books, that upon a demurrer entered upon
parol evidence, the party offering the evidence may choose
whether he will join in demurrer or not. But after having
stated the two authorities which I have mentioned, I
think those passages in the books must be understood with
the qualification mentioned in both those authorities,
'unless the adverse party will confess the evidence to be
true.' The matter of fact being confessed, the case is ripe
for judgment in matter of law upon the evidence, and
may then be properly withdrawn from the jury; and being
entered, on record will remain for the decision of the
Judges." (Id., pp. 206-209.)
If on a demurrer to the evidence judgment was given
for one party when it should have been given for the other,
the error was corrected in the appellate tribunal by directing the proper judgment. It is now said in referring
to this practice, that this was because the error was confined to the judgment, and did not reach the facts as
ascertained and shown in the demurrer. But what was
the error? What was the basis of the judgment and upon
what ground was it reversed and the proper judgment
directed? The facts, by the proceeding on the demurrer,
were made a part of the record, and the question of the
legal sufficiency of the evidence was thus one of law arising
upon the record. The court dealt with the question of
law, that is, with the legal insufficiency of the evidence,
and directed judgment which, as matter of law; followed
the case made.
-

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S. HUGHES,

HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

413

JJ., dissenting.

It is also said that when the reversal was for error in
allowing the demurrer, the latter necessarily went for

naught, and as there remained no ascertained facts on
which to base a judgment, a new trial was deemed essential; and Gibson v. Hunter, supra, and Fowle v. Alexandria,

11 Wheat. 320, are cited. But in Gibson v. Hunter, supra,
the reason for holding that the demurrer could not be
allowed and that no judgment could be given, was thus
stated (p. 209): "The examination of the witnesses in this
case, has been conducted so loosely, or this demurrer has
been so negligently framed, that there is no manner of
certainty in the state of facts, upon which any judgment
can be founded." In other words, the case was lacking
in the record of facts with the essential admissions of the
demurring party which were necessary to support a judgment, and there was no option but to award a new trial
because of the way the record had been made up. And in
Fowle v. Alexandria, supra, the ruling was that issue

could not be joined upon the demurrer so long as any
matter of fact remained in controversy between the
parties; that no party could insist upon the other party's
joining in the demurrer without distinctly admitting upon
the record every fact and every conclusion of fact which
the evidence given for his adversary conduced to prove.
The court said (p. 323): "Upon examination of the case
at bar, it will be at. once perceived that the demurrer to
evidence, tried by the principles already stated, is fatally
defective. The defendants have demurred, not to facts,
but to evidence of facts; not to positive admissions, but

to mere circumstances of presumption introduced on the
other side.

.

.

.

Even if the demurrer could be con-

sidered as being exclusively taken to the plaintiff's evidence, it'ought not to have been allowed without a distinct
admission of the facts which that evidence conduced to
prove. But when the demurrer was so framed as to let
,in
.the defendant's evidence, and thus to rebut what the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

other side aimed to establish, and to overthrow the presumptions arising therefrom, by counter-presumptions, it
was the duty of the circuit court to overrule the demurrer,
as incorrect, and untenable in principle. The question
referred by it to the court, was not a question of law, but
of fact."
The court, therefore, concluded that in this posture of
the case, it was bound to order a new trial, and it was
added: "We may say, as was said by the judges in Gibson
v. Hunter, 2 H. Bl. 187, that this demurrer has been so
incautiously framed, that there is no manner of certainty
in the state of facts, upon which any judgment can be
founded. Under such a predicament, the settled practice
is to award a new trial, upon the ground that the issue
between the parties, in effect, has not been tried." (Id.,
p. 324.) The necessary implication is that, had the demurrer been properly framed and the record properly
made, so that there had been certainty in the facts and
the proper basis for the determination of a question of
law, no new trial would have been ordered.
How can it be said that these authorities furnish any
support for the conclusion which has been reached in this
case? For this court has found no uncertainty in the state
of facts shown by the record, and it has not been-unable
to determine ihe question arising thereon. On the contrary, the record being made up in an appropriate manner
and the question being properly raised, this court holds
that there was no evidence whatever to sustain a verdict
for the plaintiff and because there is certainty in the record
adjudges that the trial court erred in refusing a binding
instruction.
The practice of demurring to the evidence was recognized in Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch, 219; Young v.
Black, 7 Cranch, 565; United States Bank v. Smith, 11
Wheat. 171, 182; Columbian Insurance Co. v. Catlett, 12
Wheat. 383, 389; Thornton v. Bank of Washington, 3 Pet.

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON and PxTNEY, JJ., dissenting.

36; Chinoweth v. Lessee of Haskell, 3 Pet. 92; Corfield v.
Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 386; Johnson v. United States,
5 Mason, 425, 436; Pickel v. Isgrigg, 6 Fed. Rep. 676; and
other cases.
After the decision of this court in Fowle v. Alexandria,
supra,Mr. Justice Story, who delivered the opinion in that
case, thus laid down the rules with regard to demurrers
to evidence in Johnson v. United States, supra (p. 436):
"The general nature and operation of such a demurrer
has been expounded with great force and correctness in
the opinion delivered by Lord Chief Justice Eyre, in the
case of Gibson v. Hunter (2 H. B1. 187). The Supreme
Court of the United States has also, on various occasions,
been called upon to discuss the nature and effect of the
proceeding. But I shall do no more at present, than to
refer to some of the leading cases, not meaning to comment on them. . . . The result of the whole is, that
tle party demurring is bound to admit not merely all
the facts which the evidence directly establishes, but all
which it conduces to prove. The demurrer should state
the facts, and not merely the evidence of facts; and it is
utterly inadmissible to demur to the evidence, when there
is contradictory testimony to the same points, or presumptions leading-to opposite conclusions, so that what the
facts are remains uncertain, and may be urged with more
or less effect to a jury. The court, however, will, in favour
of the party, against whom the demurrer is sought, as it
withdraws from the jury the proper consideration of his
case, make every inference for him, which the facts in
proof would warrant a jury to draw. But if the facts are
so imperfectly and loosely stated, that the Court cannot
arrive at a satisfactory conclusion, that the judgment can
be maintained upon the actual presentation of the evidence
of these facts, then the course is to reverse the judgment,
and to award a venire facias de nova"
In Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranch, 219, the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

States sued in debt upon an official bond. The defendants
pleaded that the bond had been delivered as an escrow
upon a condition which had not been performed. The
United States demurred to the evidence produced on
behalf of the defendants. The court held the evidence
insufficient and judgment went in favor of the United
States. This court reversed the judgment and directed
that judgment be entered for the defendants in the court
below.
That the practice in the present case did not differ in its
essential features from that permitted at common law is
shown by the decision of this court in Chinoweth v. Lessee
of Haskell, 3 Pet. 92. That was an action in ejectment.
What took place on the trial is thus stated by Chief
Justice Marshall (p. 94): "At the trial, the defendants
demurred to the plaintiffs' testimony, and the jury found
a verdict for the plaintiffs, subject to the opinion of the
court on the demurrer. The court overruled the demurrer
and gave judgment for the plaintiffs." The applicable
principles were thus stated (p. 96):
"The defendants in the district court having withdrawn their cause from the jury by a demurrer to evidence,
or having submitted to a verdict for the plaintiffs subject
to that demurrer, cannot hope for a judgment in their
favour, if, by any fair construction of the evidence, the
verdict can be sustained. If this cannot be done, the
judgment rendered for the defendants in error must be
reversed." On reviewing the evidence, this court found
that the demurrer ought to have been sustained. And this
was its judgment (p. 98):
"The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded,
with directions tQ enter judgment in favour of the defendants in the distiict court."
Here then is a case, in this court, which contradicts the
conclusion that there is no permissible practice under the
Constitution by which, when a verdict has been taken

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY, JJ.,

dissenting.

for the plaintiff and it has been found, the point being duly
made, that there is no legal basis for it in the evidence,
judgment can be directed for the defendant.
It is said that there was a voluntary joinder in demurrer.
Undoubtedly, the plaintiffs in the District Court did join
in the demurrer, but in what sense did they join voluntarily? The demurrer to the evidence in the Chinoweth
Case was manifestly well taken. And this being so, the
other party was bound to join in it. As it was said in
Gibson v. Hunter, supra, the cases "prove that-if a party
may demur, the other party must join in demurrer."
Whether a demurrer should be allowed was the initial
question for the trial court, but if the case was one where
'it
was proper to allow the deniurrer, and it was duly taken
and allowed, the other party was not entitled to stand
on his evidence and go to the jury. Let it be assumed that
he could take a nonsuit; but this is not to' say that by refusing to join in the demurrer he had the right to have his
case, although insufficient in law for that purpose, submitted to the decision of the jury. Of course if there were
some defect or variance, which he believed he could
remedy, it would be natural for him to withdraw his case;
but if he had proved all he could possibly prove, there
would be no reason for a withdrawal unless he was willing
to abandon the litigation. If he did not desire to do this,
but wished to proceed, insisting upon the legal sufficiency
of the evidence to which the demurrer was taken, he had
to join in it. For, unless he did so, he waived his evidence
(Baker's Case, supra; Gibson v. Hunter, supra) and was
left without any evidence to go upon; while, if he did join
in the demurrer, he had to abide the judgment of the court
upon the point of law. He had no right to reach the jury,
against proper objection, when his evidence raised no
question of fact. In the Chinoweth Case, the plaintiffs,
confronted with the demurrer, and desiring to stand upon
their evidence and not to waive it, complied with the rules
VOL. ccxxvi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHEs, HoLMEs, LURTON and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

of law which required them to join in the demurrer. The
judgment was determined by the decision of the question
of law. This court, finding no basis for the verdict which
had been taken for the plaintiffs subject to the opinion
of the court on the demurrer, did not order a new trial
but directed judgment for the defendants.
The practice of demurring to the evidence was cumbrous. It fell into disuse, and the practice of moving for
a direction of a verdict came to take its place. The fundamental question, however, of the legal'insufficiency of the
evidence, remained the same. As this court said in Parks
v. Ross, 11 How. 362, 373, "But a jury has no right to
assume the truth of any material fact, without some evidence legally sufficient to establish it. It is, therefore,
error in the court to instruct the jury that they may find
a material fact, of which there is no evidence from which
it may be legally inferred. Hence the practice of granting
an instruction like the present, which makes it imperative
upon the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, and which
has in many States superseded the ancient practice of a
demurrer to evidence. It answers the same purpose, and
should be tested by the same rules. A demurrer to evidence admits*not only the facts stated therein, but also
every conclusion which a jury might fairly or reasonably
infer therefrom."
Can it be doubted that it would be competent for Congress, if it saw fit, to reinstate the old practice of demurring to the evidence and on a proper demurrer to its legal
sufficiency, with an admission of all facts that his evidence tended to prove, to compel the other party to join
in the demurrer; and to provide that thereupon the court
should decide the question. of law and enter judgment
accordingly? Or that, if the trial court decided wrongly,
the appellate court should be at liberty to direct the
entry of the judgment to which, as matter of law, a paity
was entitled? And could not Congress, following the anal-

SLCCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

ogies of a still earlier day, before written pleadings were
introduced, permit the question to be raised by a motion
upon the trial? Could it not now provide, when the testimony is reported stenographically, that the record so
made and appropriately approved by the court should
constitute the record of the evidence for the purpose of
determining the question of law thus raised?
Again, the court having this power to decide the question of law and to enter judgment accordingly, can it not
be authorized to take provisionally the verdict of the
jury to avoid the delay and expense of a new trial in case
it should appear on a careful consideration of the evidence
that it involved a dispute of fact which the jury should
have resolved?
This is all, as it seems to me, that the Pennsylvania
practice comes to. Had the old practice obtained, and
had there been a demurrer to the evidence in this case,
this court, in view of its holding that the "evidence did
not admit of a finding that the policy was in force at the
time of the insured's death," must necessarily have concluded that the demurrer was well taken; that the trial
court would have been justified in directing judgment for
the defendant without submitting the case to the jury;
and that if it had not decided the question correctly the
appellate court could So decide it and direct the entry of
that judgment. The rest of the matter was simply the
exercise of caution to avoid unnecessary litigation by
taking the verdict of the jury so that it might be available
if it appeared that the case was one for the jury.
The plaintiff did not take a nonsuit, or attempt in any
way to dismiss her case. No question is presented with
respect to her right to withdraw the suit; or to start again,
if it had been withdrawn. It is said that, had the court
indicated a purpose to direct a verdict for the defendant,
the plaintiff might have taken a nonsuit; but the practice
in the state and Federal courts had long been established

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMEs, LURTON and PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

'and must have been well understood. There is nothing
to indicate to the contrary. The situation disclosed is
that the plaintiff was standing upon her evidence contending, as she still contends, that it was sufficient to permit
the jury to find in her favor. The defendant insisted that,
conceding all that the evidence tended to prove, the
plaintiff had no case for the jury. In this, the court now
finds that the defendant was right. The defendant having
made this point and the plaintiff, on the other hand, having asserted the sufficiency of the evidence and stood
thereon, I find no ground for saying that the local practice
was opposed to the principles of the common law in providing, in effect, that the question of law thus raised should
be determined by the court, which should render judgment
for the party entiiled thereto.
This court has frequently said that it would deal with
questions of this sort according to the substance of the
matter. Thus, in Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261,
it was held that where it was shown by the opening statement of counsel that the contract on which the suit was
brought was void as being either in violation of law or
against public policy, the trial court might properly direct
the jury to find a verdict for the defendant. The court,
by Mr. Justice Field, said (id., p. 266):
"Indeed, there can be, at this day, no serious doubt that
the court may at any time direct a verdict when the facts
are undisputed, and that the jury should follow such direction. The maxim that questions of fact are to be submitted to the jury, and not to be determined by the court,
is not violated by this proceeding any more than by a
nonsuit in a state court where the plaintiff fails to make
out his case. The intervention of the jury is required
only where some question of fact is controverted." In
Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Palace Car Co.,
139 U. S. 24, it was held that a state statute which authorized the judge presiding at the trial to order a judgment

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURToN

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

of nonsuit where the evidence introduced by the plaintiff
was insufficient in law to sustain a verdict, might be followed in the Federal court under Rev. Stat., § 914, and
that the judgment so rendered might be reviewed here
upon writ of error. The court said: "The difference between a motion to order a nonsuit of the plaintiff and a
motion to direct a verdict for the defendant is, as observed
by Mr. Justice Field, delivering a recent opinion of this
court, 'rather a matter of form than of substance, except
(that) in the case of a nonsuit a new action may be brought,
wherias in the case of a verdict the action is ended, unless
a new trial be granted, either upon motion or upon appeal.'
Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261, 264.
"Whether a defendant in an action at law may present
in the one form or in the other, or by demurrer to the evidence, the defence that the plaintiff, upon his own case,
shows no cause of action, is a question of 'practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding,' as to which the
courts of the United States are now required by the act of
Congress, of June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, 17 Stat. 197, reenacted in § 914 of the Revised Statutes, to conform, as
near as may be, to those existing in the courts of the State
within which the trial is had. Sawin v. Kenny, 93 U. S.
289; Ex parte Boyd, 105 U. S. 647; Chateaugay Co., Petitioner, 128 U. S. 544; Glenn v. Sumner, 132 U. S. 152, 156."
(Id., pp. 39-40.)
In other words, a practice which would not have been
allowed in the absence of statute was permitted under the
statute because in the substance of the thing it was entirely
in accord with the principles of the common law. In
Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U. S. 301, the constitutional
question was directly presented, and after referring to the
ruling in Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469, that in a Federal
court there was no authority to order a peremptory nonsuit against the will of the plaintiff (Crane v. Morris, 6
Pet. 598; Castle v. Bullard, 23 How. 172), the court said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY, JJ.,

dissenting.

228 U. S.

"The foundation for those rulings was not in the conptitutional right of a trial by jury, for it has long been
the doctrine of this court that in every case, before the
evidence is left to the jury, there is a preliminary question
for the judge, not whether there is literally no evidence,
but whether there is any upon which a jury can properly
proceed to find a verdict for the party producing it upon
whom the onus of proof is imposed, and that, if the evidence be not sufficient to warrant a recovery, it is the duty
of the court to instruct the jury accordingly, and, if the
jury disregard such instruction, to set aside the verdict.
Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362; Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wall.
359; Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 120. And, in the
case of Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 264, it was said by
Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion of the court,
that the difference between a motion to order a nonsuit
of the plaintiff and a motion to direct a verdict for the
defendant is 'rather a matter of form than of substance.'
"That the cases above cited, which held that the Circuit Court of the United States had no authority to order
peremptory nonsuits, were based, not upon a constitutional right of a plaintiff to have the verdict of a jury,
even if his evidence was insufficient to sustain his case,
but upon the absence of authority, whether statutory or
by a rule promulgated by this court, is shown by the
recent case of Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman's Car
Co., 139 U. S. 24, 38, where it was held that, since the
act of Congress of June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, 17 Stat. 197,
reenacted in § 914 of the Revised Statutes, courts of the
United States are required to conform, as near as may be,
in questions of 'practice, pleadings and forms and modes
of proceeding' to those existing in the courts of the State
within which the trial is had, and a judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, ordering a peremptory nonsuit, in pursuance of a state statute, was upheld. It is the clear im-

SLOCUM '. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMIES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

plication of this case that granting a nonsuit for want of
sufficient evidence is not an infringement of the constitutional right of trial by jury.
"As there was a statute of the Territory of Utah authorizing courts to enter judgments of peremptory nonsuit, there was no error in the trial court in granting the
motion for a nonsuit in the present case, nor in the judgment of the Supreme Court affirming such ruling; if,
indeed, upon the entire evidence adduced by the plaintiffs
enough did not appear to sustain a verdict." (Id., pp. 307308.)
In the present .case, the point is not that the ordinary
practice on a motion for the direction of a verdict is
identical with that on a demurrer to the evidence, but
that the latter as well as the former was clearly permitted
by the Constitution and that the modern application of
it, in a convenient form through the local statute in question, was not a substantial departure.
I do not see that the authorities relied upon in the
opinion of the court sustain its ruling. They may be
briefly reviewed. In United States v. Wonson, 1 Gall. 5,
20, it was held that where a cause had once been tried by
a jury in the District Court, there could not be a new trial
by a jury in the Circuit Court. The statement of Mr.
Justice Story with regard to the constitutional provision
and the importance of trial by jury have obvious reference
to cases of disputed questions of fact with which it is the
province of the jury to deal. Facts once tried by a jury
are not reexamined and the court is not to substitute its
judgment of the facts for the judgment of the jury, but,
in such case, should order a new trial.
Applying this rule to the present case, if this court
found that on the trial there was any question of fact for
the jury to decide, it could not sustain, as it does sustain,
the Circuit Court of Appeals, in reversing the judgment
for the plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

In Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, it was held that it
was not the intention of Congress by the act of May 26,
1824, 4 Stat. 62, c. 181, to confer upon this court the
power, in reviewing a judgment of the District Court of
Louisiana, to decide questions of fact which had been
passed upon by the jury. The court said that no points
of law were brought under review, and that the whole
object was "to present the evidence here in order to
establish the error of the verdict in matters of fact."
The remarks of the court in Walker v. New Mexico &
,Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 165 U. S. 593, 596, plainly have
reference to the same subject. Thus, it is said that the
Seventh Amendment "does not attempt to regulate matters of pleading or practice," that "its aim is not to preserve mere matters of form and procedure but substance
of right" and that "this requires that questions of fact
in common law actions shall be settled by a jury, and
that the court shall not assume directly or indirectly to
take from the jury or to itself such prerogative."
In Barney v. Schmeider, 9 Wall. 248, the court received
the testimony taken on a former trial,- but did not have
it read to the jury. The court informed the jury of its
purport and directed them to find a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff. In other words, the court followed the
practice of directing a verdict by a jury without the evidence upon which it should rest being properly presented
to the jury. The court overruled the contention that there
was not a disputed question of fact, saying, after reviewing
the case, "Where there is any discrepancy,.however slight,
the court must submit the matter to which it relates to the
jury, because it is their province to weigh and balance
the testimony and not the court's. The'proposition is not,
therefore, sustained, that nothing but a question of law
was to be decided." (id., p. 253.)
The cases mostly relied upon are those of Hodges v.
Easton, 106 U. S. 408; and Baylis v. Travellers' Insurance

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

Co., 113 U. S. 316. But, it is submitted that these cases
neither control the matter nor are inconsistent with the
principles which I have urged as determinative of this
question.
In Hodges v. Easton, supra, there was a so-called special
verdict, in answer to questions propounded by the court.
But the questions and the verdict in response thereto,
covered only a part of the material issues of fact. The
court gave judgment upon the special verdict and upon
what it described as "facts conceded or not disputed upon
the trial." What these facts were, which lay outside the
verdict, did not appear from the record. "No bill of exceptions was taken showing the evidence introduced by
either party, nor was there a general verdict." This court
said that having regard alone to the questions and answers
propounded to the jury, it was clear that the plaintiffs
had not proved their case. If it were presumed that there
were no material facts beyond those found by the jury
then the judgment was unauthorized; on the other hand,
if there were other material facts they were found by the
court and not by the jury. As the court pointed out,
there was no waiver of a jury, by a stipulation in writing,
as provided by the statute (Rev. Stat. §§ 648-649) and
there was "nothing in the record from which such stipulation or waiver may be inferred." The case then was one in
which the record afforded no basis for a judgment, and
there was no alternative but to direct that a trial be had
"upon all the material issues of fact."
In Baylis v. Travellers' Insurance Co., supra, the action
was upon a policy of insurance to be paid to the plaintiff
in case his father "should accidentally sustain bodily
injury which should produce death within ninety days."
After the close of the testimony, the defendant moved to
dismiss on the ground that the evidence was insufficient
to support a verdict. The motion was denied, the plaintiff
insisting that there were questions of fact which should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

submitted to the jury. The court then directed the jury
to find a verdict for the plaintiff subject to its opinion upon
the question whether the facts warranted a recovery.
Subsequently the court denied a motion for judgment on
the verdict in favor of the plaintiff and directed judgment
to be entered for the defendant. This court reversed the
judgment and ordered a new trial.
The pith of the decision is that, despite what the trial
judge said regarding the matter, there were really questions of fact for the jury, and that the trial judge could
not take the place of the jury in deciding them. The appellant challenged the judgment in this court upon that
ground which was found to be well taken. What was
actually decided appears from the following statement of
the opinion'
"But, without a waiver of the right of trial by jury, by
consent of parties, the court errs if it substitutes itself for
the jury, and, passing upon the effect of the evidence,
finds the facts involved in the issue, and renders judgment
thereon.
"This is what was done in the present case. It may be
that the conclusions of fact reached and stated by the
court are correct, and, when properly ascertained, that
they require such a judgment as was rendered. That is a
question not before us. The plaintiff in error complains
that he was entitled to have the evidence submitted to
the jury, and to the benefit of such conclusions of fact as
it might justifiably have drawD; a right he demanded and
did not waive; and that he has been deprived of it, by the
act of the court, in entering a judgment against him on
its own view of the evidence, without the intervention
of a jury.
"In this particular, we think error has been well assigned." (Id., pp. 320-321.)
This being the point of the case, it would seem to be
rather an extreme construction of the rest of the opinion,

SLOCUM v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
228 U. S.

HUGHES, HOLMES, LuRTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

in its references to practice, to treat it as an exhaustive
statement of all the possibilities of legislative control
over procedure within constitutional limits, or as laying
down rules which would preclude the court in a case where
there was no question of fact for the jury, from following
the applicable state practice, or an act of Congress, in
entering judgment for the party who, upon the record,
was as matter of law entitled to it. That, as I regard the
decision, is very far from its purpose and effect.
It is said, however, that a new trial affords opportunity
to a plaintiff to better his case, by presenting evidence
which may not have been available before. But we are
not dealing with an application for a new trial upon the
ground of newly discovered evidence or With the principles controlling an application of that sort. We are
concerned with the question whether a party has a constitutional right to another trial, simply because the trial
court erred in its determination of a question of law which
was decisive of the case made. Had the trial court done
what this court says it should have done, it would have
directed a verdict for the defendant and if the jury, isimply
following the instruction of the trial court, had so found;
final judgment would have been entered and no new trial
would now be granted. Still the jury would not have
passed upon any question of fact, but would siniply have
obeyed the judge. The opportunity to better the case on
a second trial would probably be as welcome, but it would
not be-accorded. I am unable to see any basis for a constitutional distinction which raises a constitutional right
to another trial in the one case and not in the other.
Of course, in any case, where there are questions -of
fact for the jury, the court cannot undertake to decide
them unless a jury trial is waived. But, it would seem
to be an entire misapprehension to say that trial by jury,
in its constitutional- aspect, requires the submission to the
jury of evidence which presents no question for their

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
HUGHES, HOLMES, LURTON

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

228 U. S.

decision; and that, although there be no facts for the jury
to pass upon, still the judgment which follows as matter
of law, can be arrived at only through a verdict. This is to
create a constitutional right out of the practice of taking
verdicts by direction. The ancient method of challenging
the sufficiency of the evidence by demurrer, and thereupon
either discharging the jury altogether or assessing the
damages conditionally to await the decision of the demurrer (Cro. Car. 143), reveals the function of court and
jury in a clearer light, and shows that the idea that the
judgment upon a trial where there is no evidence to
sustain a finding by the jury, can be reached only through
a verdict, could not have been entertained at the time the
Constitution was adopted.
To repeat and conclude: All that has been done in the
present case could, in substance, have been done at common law, albeit by a more cumbrous method. There has
been no invasion of the province of the jury. That conclusively appears from the fact that this court holds that
there was no basis for a finding by the jury in favor of
the plaintiff. We have here a simplification of procedure
adopted in the public interest to the end that unnecessary
litigation may be avoided. The party obtains the judgment which in law he should have according to the record.
I submit, with deference, that in now condemning this
practice, long followed in the courts below, this court is
departing from, instead of applying, the principles of the
common law, and is extending rather than enforcing the
constitutional provision.I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,
MR. JUSTICE LURTON and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concur in
this dissent.

