BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY. 137
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

different from deciding when an article which has violated a Federal prohibition becomes immune. The doctrine was not intended to limit the right of Congress,
now asserted, to keep the channels of interstate commerce free from the carriage of injurious or fraudulently
branded articles and to choose appropriate means to
that end. The legislative means provided in the Federal
law for its own enforcement may not be thwarted by
state legislation having a direct effect to impair the effectual exercise of such means.
For the reasons stated, the statute of Wisconsin, in
forbidding all labels other than the one it prescribed, is
invalid, and it follows that the judgments of the state
court affirming the convictions of the plaintiffs in error
for selling the articles in question without the exclusive
brand required by 1le State, must be
Reversed, and the cases are remanded to the state court for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

BOGART, AS EXECUTOR OF LAWRENCE, v.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 165.

Argued March 5, 1913.-Decided'April 7, 1913.

The question intended to be brought to this court by direct appeal
under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act is the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court as a Federal court; questions of general jurisdiction applicable as well to state as to Federal tribunals are not included in such review.
The question cannot be brought into the record by certificate if not
really presented, and whether so presented or not this court will determine for itself. Darnell v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 243.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Argument for Appellants.

228 U. S.

Neither § 737, Rev. Stat., nor Equity Rule 47 defines what an indispensable party to an action is, but each simply formulates principles
already controlling in courts both state and Federal; a decision dismissing a case removed from the state court because of the absence
of an indispensable party rests on the broad principles of general law
in that respect, and a direct appeal does not lie under § 5 of the act
of 1891.
Where the Circuit Court dismisses a case removed from the state court
for want of an indispensable party the question is not one of jurisdiction of the Federal court as such, and this court cannot, in a direct
appeal under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, answer a question embodied in a certificate as to whether under such circumstances
the case should be remanded to the state court.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of direct appeals under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act of 1891, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. Snowden Ma shall, with whom Mr. James A.
O'Gorman, Mr. A. J. Dittenhoefer and Mr. David Gerber
were on the brief, for appellants:
As to the jurisdiction of this court on direct appeal: The
jurisdiction of the court was in issue in the Circuit Court,
so that the appeal was properly tAken directly to this
court.
In view of the certificate of the court below and the
plain facts in the case, it would seem to be unnecessary to
argue this question at length.
The court below construed, adversely to its jurisdiction,
a Federal statute passed manifestly for the purpose of
extending the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The court
also assumed that there existed in the Federal court a
jurisdiction to deny a motion to remand and dismiss a
case which could be tried in the state court.
The recitals by the court below that the case was decided on jurisdictional grounds should be controlling.
In re Lehigh Mining Co., 156 U. S. 322; Scully v. Bird, 209
U. S. 481.

BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
228 U. S.

139

Argument for Appellees.

As the court below decided the cause on the ground of
jurisdiction, the appeal was properly taken directly to
this court. Section 5, act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
827; Chicago Board of Trade v. Hammlrnd Elevator Co.,
198 U. S. 424; Sheppard v. Adams, 168 U. S. 618; Kendall
v. San Juan Mining Co., 144 U. S. 658; Nashua Railway
Co. v. B. & L. Railway, 136 U. S. 336; see also Wetmore v.
Rymer, 169 U. S. 115.
There was never any doubt in the court below, either in
the minds of counsel or in the mind of the judge who
decided the case, that the only jurisdictional question
that was in issue was that of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court as a Federal court. The bill was not dismissed for
lack of equity or any of the other reasons given in the
cases cited by the appellees where this court dismissed
the appeals because they did not involve the jurisdiction
of the court below as a Federal court.
This court, in case the certificate and other parts of the
record are contradictory, can examine the opinion to find
out whether the court below dismissed the bill for lack of
jurisdiction. Courtney v. Pradt, 196 U. S. 89; Loeb v.
Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472.
Mr. Arthur H. Van Brunt for appellees:
On the question of jurisdiction: In appeals or writs of
error from the District or Circuit Courts direct to this
court under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, in cases in
which the jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, the
only question which can properly be certified to this coprt
is that of the jurisdiction of the court below as a Feddral
court.
The question of jurisdiction alone can be certified.
In appeals direct from the District and Circuit Courts,
under the provision of the statute i'nvolved in the present
case, only the question of jurisdiction can be considered.
Schunk v. Moline &c. Co., 147-U. S. 500, 503; Passavant

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellees.

228 U. S.

v. United States, 148 U. S. 214, 217; Greeley v. Lowe, 155
U. S. 58, 76; Mex. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429,
432; O'Neal v. United States, 190 U. S. 36; Venner v.
G. Nor. Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24, 30, 31; Scully v. Bird, 209
U. S. 481, 485.
The question of jurisdiction referred to in the act of
1891 is that of the jurisdiction of the District and Circuit
Courts as Federal courts and not of their general jurisdiction as judicial tribunals. Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S.
355; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.
v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 34; Mex. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Eckman,
187 U. S. 429; Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225;
Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523; Courtney v. Pradt, 196 U. S.
89; Board of Trade v. Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S.
424; United States v. Larkin, 208 U. S. 333; Bien v. Robinson, 208 U. S. 423; Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481; Steamship
Jefferson, 215 U. S. 131; Davis v. Cleveland Ry. Co., 217
U. S. 157; Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S.
175; Darnell v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 225 U. S.
243.
Where the necessary elements of Federal jurisdiction
exist, the jurisdiction of the court attaches, and an exercise of that jurisdiction, as by a dismissal of the bill, does
not involve any question of Federal jurisdiction which
can be reviewed by this court under the act of March 3,
1891. Cases supra and Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355;
Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501; Denver Bank v. Klug,
186 U. S. 202; Schweer v. Brown, 195 U. S. 171; Lucius v.
Cawthon-Coleman Co., 196 U. S. 149; Kansas City &c.
R. R. Co. v. Zimmerman, 210 U. S. 336; United States v.
Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199, 201.
The certificate of the Circuit Court in the present case
improperly certifies to this court for decision questions
other than that of jurisdiction, and does not certify the
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a
Federal court.

BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY. 141
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The power to certify other than jurisdictional questions
is vested only in the Circuit Courts of Appeal. Arkansas
v. Schlierholz, 179 U. S. 598, 601.
The question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as
a Federal court is not certified.
This court is not concluded by the certificate of the
court below, but will dismiss the appeal if it appears that
the question of the jurisdiction of .the court below as a
Federal court is not in issue. Nichols Lumber Co. v.
Franson, 203 U. S. 278; Darnell v. Illinois Central R. R.
Co., 225 U. S. 243.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal
court is not in issue in the present case.
Mr. Tompkins McIlvaine filed a brief for appellee,
Metropolitan Trust Company of New York.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a direct appeal from a decree of the United
States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of New York
upon the ground that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is in issue under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act (March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517), and a certificate
to that effect has been sent to this court.
The suit was originally brought in the New York
Supreme Court for the County of Queens by Walter B.
Lawrence, who has since died and for whom the appellants
have been substituted, against the Southern Pacific
Company, Frederick P. Olcott, Central Trust Company
of New York, Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, Metropolitan Trust Company of the City of New York, The
Houston & Texas Central Railroad Company (which we
will call the "Railroad Company") and The Houston &
Texas Central Railway Company (which we will call
the "Railway Company"). Upon the petition of the

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1912..
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Southern Pacific Company, Olcott and -the Railroad Company, the case was removed to the United States Circuit
Court. Lawrence alleged in his complaint that he was
a stockholder of the Railway Company, of which the
Southern Pacific Company owned a majority of the stock;
that the Railway Company became involved in various
foreclosure suits, to which it set up certain defenses
claimed by Lawrence to be-vaiid and sufficient; that the
Southern Pacific Company entered into a certain reorganization agreement, whereby, in consideration of the
withdrawal of the defenses, which was procured by the
Southern Pacific Company, the mortgages were foreclosed and all the property of the Railway Company
bought in by defendant Olcott, who transferred the lines
of railroad, rolling stock, etc., to the defendant Railroad
Company, organized pursuant to the agreement; that
n'w bonds were issued by the Railroad Company to
retire the old bonds and the lands of the Railway Company
purchased by Olcott were conveyed to the three Trust
Companies under the new mortgages, defendants herein,
as further security for the bonas; and that under the plan
the Southern Pacific was given more favorable terms than
the minority stockholders in the matter of receiving the
benefits of the reorganization agreement, and that consequently all the stock of the Railroad Company was
taken over by the Southern Pacific Company. Lawrence
prayed that the Southern Pacific Company be decreed
trustee of all benefits received under the plan and for an
accounting, and prayed that the Trust Companies convey
the surplus arising from the sale of land, after the bonds
have been liquidated, to the Railway Company, and for
certain other relief.
After the removal of the case to the Circuit Court, a
motion was made to remand to the state court, which was
Thereafter the defendants the Southern
overruled.
Pacific Company, Olcott and the Railroad Company filed

BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY. 143
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a plea in which it was set up that the Railway Company
was a necessary and indispensable party to the suit; that
it was beyond the jurisdiction of the court and could not
be brought in by process, and without its presence no
decree could be rendered in the case, and therefore prayed
that the bill be dismissed. Special pleas. were filed by the
Central Trust Company of New York, the Farmers' Loan
& Trust Company and the Metropolitan Trust Cornpany
of the City of New York.
Thereafter another motion to remand was made. This
motion was based upon the ground that the Circuit Court
could not get jurisdiction over the Railway Company,
but that the state court from which it was removed could
acquire jurisdiction over all the "arties. 'This motion was
also denied by the court.
The pleas to the jurisdiction were heard upon an agreed
statement of facts, from which it appears that the Railway
Company was incorporated under a special act of the
State of Texas, which contained no limitation upon its
corporate existence, and prior to 1885 had operated certain railroads in Texas; that the Railway Company's
propefty was sold under the foreclosure decree for seven
million dollarg less than the amount decreed to be due
and that the deficit was unpaid and uncollectible; that
the reorganization had been accomplished; that since the
foreclosure sale the Railway Company has owned no
property and has had no place of business in the State of
New York; that no meeting of the stockholders or directors has been held since 1890, and that while there are
three surviving directors, none of them visit the State of
New York upon the company's business. The Circuit
Court held that the Railway Company was an indispensable party to the suit and, unless it could be served with
process within five days from the date. of entering the
order, a final decree should be entered dismissing the bill,
which was thereafter done.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The Circuit Court made a certificate upon which to
bring the case here containing the following questions:
"1. Whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to proceed with the cause, and whether the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the cause of action.
"2. Whether the Houston & Texas Central Railway
Company was an indispensable party to the action.
"3. Whether if the Houston & Texas Central Railway
Company was an indispensable party to the action and
would not appear therein and could not be served with
process within the jurisdiction of the court, the court
thereby lost jurisdiction of the cause of action so that it
should dismiss the bill.
"4. Whether if the Houston & Texas Central Railway
Company was an indispensable party and would not
appear and could not be served with process within the
jurisdiction of this court, the cause should have been remanded to the State court, from whence it was removed."
Appeals may be taken directly to this court from the
Circuit Court under § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act in any case in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is in issue, and it is provided that in such cases the
question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to this
court for decision. The question intended to be thus
brought to this court by direct appeal is well settled to be
the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal court. Questions
of general jurisdiction applicable as well to state as Federal
tribunals are not included in such review. Louisville
Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S.225; Courtney v. Pradt, 196

U. S. 89; Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S.
175.
The question cannot be brought into the record by
certificate if not really presented, and whether so presented
this court will determine for itself. Darnell v. Illinois
Central R.R. Co., 225 U. S. 243.
The question to be decided is whether the case was dis-

BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY. 145
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

missed for the want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court as
a Federal court, for if it be found that the case was dismissed because of the decision of a question not peculiar
to the Federal jurisdiction and involving only a general
question of procedure in equity, this court need not consider it. From what has been stated it is apparent that
the case was duly removed because of diverse citizenship,
and what was done afterwards was in pursuance of the
jurisdiction thus acquired. The defendants, the Southern
Pacific Company, Olcott and the Railroad Company, by
plea claimed that the cause should not proceed because
the Railway Company was an indispensable party to the
suit. This, it is contended, presented a question of the
jurisdiction of the court as a Federal court, and the dismissal of the suit was the denial of such jurisdiction.
Section 737 of the Revised Statutes provides:
"When there are several defendants in any suit at law
or in equity, and one or more of them are neither inhabitants of nor found within the district in which the suit
is brought, and do not voluntarily appear, the court may
entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of the suit between the parties who are properly
before it; but the judgment or decree rendered therein
shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not regularly
served with process nor voluntarily appearing to answer;
and non-joinder of parties who are not inhabitants of
nor found within the district, as aforesaid, shall not constitute matter of abatement or objection to the suit."
Equity Rule 47 (210 U. S. 508, 523) is to the same
effect:
"In all cases where it shall appear to the court that
persons, who might otherwise be deemed necessary or
proper parties to the suit, cannot be made parties by reason
of their being out of the jurisdiction of the court, or incapable otherwise of being made parties, or because their
joinder would oust the jurisdiction of the court as to the
VOL. CCXXVI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the-Court.

228 U. S.

parties before the court, the court may, in their discretion,
proceed in the cause without making such persons parties;
and in such cases the decree shall be without prejudice
to the rights of the absent parties."
While the statute and rule just quoted, to the extent to
which they go, are, of course, controlling, neither the rule
nor the statute undertakes to define what is an indispensable party, but each merely undertakes to formulate
principles already controlling in courts of equity and
applicable as well to other courts as to those of Federal
origin. The statute was. originally passed February 28,
1839, c. 33, 5 Stat. 321, and Rule 47 of equity practice as
adopted by this court is only a declaration of the effect
of the act of Congress. The statute and rule came before
this court in Shields v. Rarrow, 17 How. 130, and, speaking
of them, Mr. Justice Curtis, delivering the opinion of
th6 court, said. (p. 141):
"The act says it shall be lawful for the court to entertain.. jurisdiction; but, as is observed by this court in
Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 198, when speaking of a case
where an indispensable party was not before the court,
'we do not put this case upon the ground of jurisdiction,
but upon a much broader ground, which must equally
apply to all courts of equity, whatever may be their
structure as to jurisdiction; we put it on the ground that
no court can adjudicate directly upon a person's right,
without the party being either actually or constructively
before the court.'
"So that, While this act removed any difficulty as to
jurisdiction, between competent parties, regularly served
with process, it does not attempt to displace that principle
of jurisprudence on which the court rested the case last
mentioned. And the 47th rule is only a declaration, for
the government of practitioners and courts, of the effect of
this act of congress, and of the previous decisions of the
court, on the subject of that rule. Hagan v. Walker, 14

BOGART v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY. 147
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

How. 36. It remains true, notwithstanding the act of
congress and the 47th rule, that a circuit court can make
no decree affecting the rights of an absent person, and can
make no decree between the parties before it, which so far
involves or depends upon the rights of an absent person,
that complete and final justice cannot be done between
the parties to the suit without affecting those rights. To
use the language of this court in Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10
Wheat. 167: 'If the case may be completely decided, as
between the litigant parties, the circumstance that an
interest exists in some other person, whom the process of
the court cannot reach,-as if such party be a resident of
another State,-ought not to prevent a decree upon its
merits.' But if the case cannot be thus completely decided, the court should make no decree."
In other words, it was declared by this court that the
rule as to indispensable parties, without which the court
could not proceed to a decree, is equally applicable to all
courts of equity, whatever may be their structure as to
jurisdiction, and rests upon the broad principle that no
court can adjudicate directly upon a person's rights unless
such person is actually or constructively before the court.
What the court really did in the present case was, first
to entertain jurisdiction of the suit upon the removal, and
then, applying the general principle that a suit cannot
be proceeded with in the absence of an indispensable
party, to dismiss it because the Railway Company was an
indispensable party to the present suit and had not been
served and had not appeared or waived service, as would
have been the requirement in any court of equity reaching
the same conclusion.
Nor does the decision embodied in the fourth paragraph
of the certificate and shown in the decision of the court
make a question of jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court. As therein embraced the decision was that the
cause should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

that it should be remanded to the state court. This decision was to the effect that the court, having reached the
conclusion, in the exercise of jurisdiction, that an indispensable party was not upon the record, ordered a dismissal of the action. This did not involve a decision of
the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal tribunal.
We therefore are of the opinion that in no aspect in
which the jurisdictional question was presented to this
court is it reviewable by a direct appeal to this court from
the Circuit Court.
The present appeal is therefore dismissed.

ETTOR v. CITY OF TACOMA.
HOWARD v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF.
WASHINGTON.

Nos. 68, 69. Argued December 6, 1912.-Decided April 7, 1913.
In the absence of legislation requiring compensation to be made for
damages to abutting owners by change of grade of street, the municipality, being an agent of the State and exercising a governmental
power, is not liable for consequential injuries provided it keep within
the street and use reasonable care and skill in doing the work.
Under the statutes of the State of Washington as construed by the
courts of that State this general rule was superseded by legislation
which required municipalities to compensate for consequential
damages.
A municipality cannot defend a suit for consequential damages on
the ground that as the agent of the State it is immune, when its
only authority to act is that given by the State coupled with an
obligation to make compensation.
A state statute giving compensation for consequential damages caused by

