OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

and was in receipt of no other income than that derived
from its rental, and has no assets other than that property
and the income thereof. It was held to be doing business
within the meaning of the act. The Minehill Company,
it seems to me, is doing more and a greater variety of
business than was attributed to the Park Realty Company
as the basis of the assessment upon it. Others of the realty
companies held taxable in the Corporation Tax Cases, it
seems to me, were engaged in as little business activity
as is the corporation herein involved.
With deference to the majority opinion, I think the
Minehill Company, upon the facts here adduced, is engaged in business and ought to be held liable to the tax.

McGOWAN, EXECUTRIX OF McGOWAN, v.
PARISH, EXECUTRIX OF PARISH.
IN THE MATTER OF THE APPLICATION FOR ALLOWANCE OF
AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. -.

Submitted January 13, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

An appeal lies from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia under subd. 6 of § 250 of the Judicial Code where the construction of a law of the United States of general application was
drawn in question and was considered and passed upon; and so held
that an appeal should have been allowed in this case as § 3477, Rev.
Stat., is such a statute and the case is not so frivolous as to deprive
of the right of appeal allowed by § 250.
Appeal from 40 Wash. Law Rep. 726, allowed.

facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of § 250 of the Judicial Code regulating appeals to
THE

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this court from judgments and decrees of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Nathaniel Wilson and Mr. J. J. Darlington for the
applicants.
Mr. Holmes Conradand Mr. Leigh Robinson for Parish.
MR. CmIEF JusIcE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In a controversy with the United States, the executrix
of Joseph W. Parish ulthiiately recovered a judgment for
a large sum of money. Parish v. MacVeagh, 214 U. S.
124. Claiming to be entitled to a lien or liens upon the
proceeds of the claim and to be the equitable owners of
one-tenth of the amount awarded, because of services
rendered as attorneys at law, under express contracts made
with Joseph W. Parish, a suit in equity was commenced in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, by Jonas
H. McGowan and.Elijah V. Brookshire, against the executrix of Parish and the then Secretary of the Treasury
and the Treasurer of the United States to enforce said
alleged lien or liens. A restraining order issued, but
before answer an interlocutory decree was entered by
consent of the defendant executrix, by which the restraining order was dissolved and $41,000 of the sum owing
by the United States to the Parish estate was collected
and deposited with a trustee "to the credit of this cause
and subject to the further order of this court herein, and
subject to the determination by this court in this cause
whether any amount, and if so what amount, is justly due
the complainants, or either of them, for professional
services rendered by them, or either of them, for or in
respect of the matters described in the bill of complaint."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

The case thereafter proceeded solely against the executrix
of Parish. Soon afterwards McGowan died and his
executrix was substituted. The defendant executrix answered, and the objections therein raised to the case made
'by the plaintiff were thus summarized by the judge before
whom the case was ultimately heard:
"(1) That the plaintiffs' claims, if any, are barred by
their failure to have the same passed and approved by the
probate court within the time limited by the statute.
"(2) That the lien asserted by the plaintiffs is in violation of the Revised Statutes, section 3477.
"(3) That even taking the contract of McGowan as it
read, he had not fulfilled its condition and is therefore entitled to nothing.
"(4) That the plaintiffs totally abandoned the prosecution of the claim and voluntarily relinquished all rights
they may have had under their contracts.
"(5) That in any view of the case the plaintiffs are
entitled to nothing more than the reasonable value of
their services."
The section of the Revised Statutes referred to is in the
margin.1
1All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the United
States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest therein, whether
absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities for receiving
payment of any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be
absolutely null and void, unless they, are freely made and executed in
the presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of
such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a
warrant for the payment thereof. Such transfers, assignments, and
powers of attorney, must recite the warrant for payment, and must be
acknowledged by the person making them, before an officer having
authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by
the officer; and it must appear by the certificate that the officer, at the
time of the acknowledgment, read and fully explained the transfer,
assignment, or warrant of attorney to the person acknowledging the
same.

McGOWAN v. PARISH.

228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The trial judge disposed of the case in an elaborate
opinion. Considering whether the lien asserted by the
plaintiff was in conflict with Rev. Stat., § 3477, it was held
that all question on that subject had been waived by the
consent to the interlocutory decree, which reserved only
the question of indebtedness and the amount thereof. The
case was deemed to be analogous to that presented in
Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410, 423, 424, where the scope
and effect of Rev. Stat., § 3477, was considered; and it
.was in effect decided that the statute would not be contravened by adjudicating upon the alleged contract rights
of the parties in respect to the fund on deposit. On appeal
the Court of Appeals reversed the decree of the Supreme
Court; and among other things explicitly decided that the
contracts relied upon were repugnant to § 3477 and were
absolutely void. It was, however, also held that, putting
aside the question of contract lien and assuming that there
was an agreement to pay a contingent fee, no lien operative
upon the fund existed for such fee because the judgment
for the claim against the United States had been recovered
by other attorneys acting independently of the complainants. Thus reaching the conclusion that as the result
of the provisions of the statute there could be no lien, and
there was, moreover, none, viewing the case independently
of the statute, and hence, no valid ground of equity jurisdiction, it was substantially decided that from the point
of view of the alleged contract and the right to the fund
asserted to arise from it the court was without power to
interfere. Considering the interlocutory decree and the
agreement by which it was rendered it was in effect determined that it must be treated as having been entered
subject to the right of the defendant to challenge, in virtue
of the statute, the existence of the alleged lien, and therefore as the result of the construction given to the statute
at the instance of the defendant the -interlocutory decree
could have no greater effect to establish the lien asserted

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

than did the contract *itself. Although it was thus concluded that as by virtue of the statute invoked by the
defendant there was no lien and no jurisdiction, it was
nevertheless decided that in view of the recitals in the
answer that the agreement leading up to the interlocutory
decree was equivalent to the consent by the parties thht
the court decide the case, not upon a question of contract
or the right to a lien arising from it, since that was disposed of by the statute, but by way of quantum meruit.
Coming -to examine that question, it was held that by
inaction or neglect the plaintiffs had lost their rights if
any to recover on a quantum meruit, as the result of the
inaction or neglect, as other attorneys had been employed
and had recovered the judgment upon which the money
had been collected. (40 Wash. Law Rep. 726.) A decree
of reversal was entered and the cause was remanded, with
directions to dismiss the bill. Application was then made
to the Court of Appeals for the allowance of an appeal to
this court "upon the ground that the construction of a
law of the United States is drawn in question by the defendant." The appeal was refused, the court in a memorandum opinion, after reciting the fact of the making of
the application, saying:
"The defendant relied upon section 3477, Rev. Stat., as
prohibiting the lien claimed by the plaintiffs, and on that
rests the contention that the construction of a law of the
United States is drawn in question.
"The right to appeal is one of substance and not of mere
form. The question of the validity of the lien is one that
had been settled by the Supreme Court of the United
States in construing section 3477, and was no longer an
open one. The construction of the act could not, therefore,
be drawn in question. State of Kansas v. Bradley, 26 Fed.
289; Harrisv. Rosenberger,.145 Fed. 449-452.
"We are constrained to refuse the allowance of the
appeal."

McGOWAN v. PARISH.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This application was then made. The section of the
Judicial Code relied upon by the applicants reads as
follows:
"SEC. 250. Any final judgment or decree of the court
of appeals of the District of Columbia may be reexamined
and affirmed, reversed, or modified by the Supreme Court
of the United States, upon writ of error or appeal, in the
. .
following cases:
"Sixth. In cases in which the construction of any law
of the United States is drawn in question by the defendant."
This section came under consideration in American
Security Co. v. Dist. of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491, where it
was held that the words "any law of the United States"
embraced only laws of the United States of general operation and did not therefore include laws of the United
States local in their application to the District of Colum~ia.
It follows that in the nature of things there exists a large
class of cases which involve the construction of a law of
the United States in one sense, although not the construction of such law in the sense of the statute, the line of
distinction being whether the law whose construction
was involved was of general application or merely local
in character. The duty in every case, therefore, arises
where the right to appeal under the section is invoked
to ascertain whether the case substantially involves the
construction of a law in the appealable sense. The fact
that the court below in the nature of things must be constantly called upon to apply and enforce laws of the
United States local in character admonishes us that when
called upon to determine whether the right to an appeal
exists, to be more than usually circumspect to see to it
that the authority to review conferred in one class of
cases be not permitted to embrace the other and large
class of cases to which it does not extend.
Undoubtedly Rev. Stat., § 3477, is a law of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

States of general application and its construction was
drawn in question by the defendant and was considered
and passed upon, and hence we think the right to appeal
existed. Indeed, the court below did not rest its refusal
to allow the appeal upon the theory that the construction
of a statute of the United States of general operation had
not been called in question by the defendant, but upon
the conception that the questions concerning the construction of the statute which were raised had been so
explicitly foreclosed as to exclude the possibility of allowing an appeal upon the theory that the case substantially
involved -a controversy concerning the construction of the
statute. But in view of the difference between the trial
court and the court below as to the operation and effect
of the interlocutory consent decree, of the question which
necessarily arose as to the effect of the statute upon the
rights of the parties to make the agreement irrespective
of its operation upon the United States and the application
of the statute to the idiosyncrasies of the case as presented,
we cannot say that the case arising on the record is of so
frivolous a character as to deprive of the right of appeal
which otherwise is obviously conferred by the statute.
The penalty of the bond to be given to operate as a
supersedeas will be the sum of three thousand dollars.
Appeal allowed.

