OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

timber should be "permitted to be used for smelting purposes, smelting being a separate and distinct industry
from that of mining." The justification urged for the
regulation was that the word "domestic" meant household. This court rejected the contention and decided that
the regulation transcended the power of the Secretary.
We said, "If Rule 7 (the regulation involved) is valid, the
Secretary of the Interior has power to abridge or enlarge
the statute at will. If he can define one term, he can another. If he can abridge, he can enlarge. Such power is
not regulation; it is legislation."
In that case the power of the Secretary of the Interior
was directly associated with the right conferred. Yet it
was held that such power could not qualify or limit the
right. In other words, a distinction between the legislative and administrative function was recognized and
enforced. And, similarly, this distinction must be recognized and enforced in the case at bar. The distinction is
fundamental. Where the charge is of crime, it must have
clear legislative basis. In illustration we may cite Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425; United States v. Keitel,
211 U. S. 370; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677;
Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; United States v. Biggs, 211
U. S. 507; Dwyer v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 160.
Judgment affirmed.
THE FAIR v. KOHLER DIE AND SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 169.

Argued March 6, 1913.-Decided March 24, 1913.

Where plaintiff relies upon infringement of his patent and nothing
else, the cause, whether good or bad, is one under the laws pf the
United States and the Circuit Court has jurisdiction; and jurisdiction cannot be defeated by matter set up in the answer.

THE FAIR v. KOHLER DIE CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The party bringing the suit is master to decide what law he will rely
upon.
Jurisdiction is authority to decide either way, and, if it exists as an
incident to a Federal statutory cause of action, it cannot be defeated
by a plea denying the merits.
Defendant specially pleading to plaintiff's bill for infringement of
patent by selling below a stipulated price denied there was any infringement of the patent and set up that the cause was not one arising under the patent laws of the United States and the Federal
court had no jurisdiction. The court overruled the plea and, defendant not having answered further, made a decree for plaintiff. In this
court held that the appeal was on the question of jurisdiction alone,
and as jurisdiction existed below and rested solely on the patent law,
there being no diverse citizenship, the decree must be affirmed.

THEWacts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David S. Wegg, with whom Mr. Walter H. Chamberlain was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Frank T. Brown and Mr. Francis A. Hopkins for
appellee submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the appellee, an Illinois corporation, against The Fair, also an Illinois corporation, for an injunction :against The Fair's making
and vending certain patented gas heating devices, or
selling such devices of the plaintiff's manufacture at less
than one dollar and a half each; for an account and for
triple damages. The bill alleges that the plaintiff has the
sole and exclusive right to make and sell the devices
throughout the United States and that the defendant with
full notice has sold and is selling the same without license
in violation of the plaintiff's right. It then goes on to
allege that the plaintiff, when it sells, imposes the condition that the goods shall not be sold at less than one dollar
and fifty cents, and attaches'to the goods a notice to that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

effect and that any sale in violation of the condition, or
use of the article if so sold, will be an infringement of the
patent. It further avers that the defendant obtained a
stock of the devices with notice of the conditions and sold
them for a dollar and a quarter each in infringement of
the plaintiff's rights under the patent.
The Fair appeared specially and pleaded that all the
devices in question sold by it were purchased from the
plaintiff by a jobber, that the jobber paid the full price
to the plaintiff, that upon these facts there was no question
arising under the patent or other laws of the United States,
and that-the court had no jurisdiction of the case. The
case was set down for hearing on the plea, so that the foregoing allegations of fact must be taken to be true. Farley
v. Kittson, 120 U. S. 303, 314. The court in deference to
Victor Talking Machine Co. v. The Fair, 123 Fed. Rep.
424, maintained its jurisdiction, and as the defendant did
not answer within the time allowed, took the bill as confessed and made a decree for the plaintiff. The judge
stated that he did not feel at liberty to give a formal certificate but added what appears from the record, that the
defendant did nothing except to file the above plea. The
appeal is upon the question of jurisdibtion alone. There
is no uncertainty or ambiguity and we are of opinion that
the case is properly here. Petri v. Creelman Lumber Co.,
199 U. S. 487, 492.
Obviously the plaintiff sued upon the patent law, so far
as the purport and intent of the bill is concerned. It .was
a resident of the same State as the defendant and could
have had no other ground. In the earlier paragraphs of
the bill it charged an infringement of its patent rights in
general terms, and it sought .triple damages, which it could
have done only by virtue of the statute. It is true that
later it set up the sale at a dollar and a quarter as an infringement and that we may guess that this is the only one,
although it does not say so. But if that, is the plaintiff's

THE FAIR v. KOHLER DIE CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

only cause of action, still the plaintiff relies upon it as an
infringement and nothing else-so that, good or bad, the
cause of action alleged is a cause of action under the laws
of the United States.
Of course the party who brings a suit is master to decide
what law he will rely upon and therefore does determine
whether he will bring a 'suit arising under' the patent or
other law of the United States by his declaration or bill.
That question cannot depend upon the answer, and accordingly jurisdiction cannot be conferred by the defence even
when anticipated and replied to in the bill. Devine v.
Los Angeles, 202 U. S. 313, 334. 'Conversely, when the
plaintiff bases his cause of action upon an act of Congress'
jurisdiction cannot be defeated by a plea denying the
merits of the claim. It might be defeated, no doubt, in a
case depending on diversity of citizenship by a plea to the
citizenship of parties. Interior Construction and Improvement Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217, 219. We are speaking
of a case where jurisdiction is incident to a Federal statutory cause of action. Jurisdiction is authority to decide
the case either way. Unsuccessful as well as successful
suits may be brought upon the act, and a decision that a
patent is bad, whether on the facts or the law, is as binding
as one that it is good. See Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S.
230, 235. No doubt if it should appear that the ,plaintiff
was not really relying upon the patent law for his alleged
rights, or if the claim of right were frivolous, the case might
be dismissed., In the former instance-the suit would not
really and substantially involve a controversy within the
jurisdiction of the court, Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v.
PacificBridge Co., 185 U. S. 282, 287, 288, and in the latter
the jurisdiction would not be denied, except possibly in
form. Deming v. Carlisle Packing Co., 226 U. S. 102, 109.
But if the plaintiff really makes a substantial claim under
an act of Congress there is jurisdiction whether the claim
ultimately be held good or bad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Thus in Vwksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S.
65, 68, it was pointed out that, while the certificate inquired
whether a Federal question was involved upon the pleadings, and while the counsel had argued the merits of the
case, the function of this court "is restricted to the inquiry
whether, upon the allegations of the bill of complaint, assuming them to be true in point of fact, a Federal question
is disclosed so as to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction in a
suit between citizens of the same State." For that reason
the court-declined to pass upon the validity of the contract
the obligation of which was alleged to have been impaired.
Ibid. 82. S. C., 202 U. S. 453, 458. Mercantile Trust &
Deposit Co. v. Columbus, 203 U. S. 311, 322, 323. Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U. S. 22, 32.
In this case the plea though purporting to go to the
jurisdiction of the court merely means that the patent
law does not give a patentee a right to impose such a condition as the plaintiff attempted to impose upon second
purchasers of the device. The plaintiff no doubt maintains
that the law does give him that right, and that even if the
alleged infringements are confined to the acts admitted
by the plea they are infringements none the less. The bill
hardly can be confined to that claim, but if it were, it is
made in good faith and is not frivolous, it is a claim of
right under the patent law and the Circuit Court properly
took jurisdiction of the case. Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co.
v. PacificBridge Co., 185 U. S. 282, 295. White v. Rankin,
144 U. S. 628, 635, 636, 639.
Decree affirmed.

