JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
.228 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

tract the plaintiff stands legally in the same position as if
the constitution had given express warning of what the
city might do. It is left to depend upon the sense of
justice that the city may show.
Decree affirmed.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE. EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 715.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

Courts proceed step by step. Matter of Harris,221 U. $. 274, established simply that the transfer of books of the bankruptto the trustee
could be required, and left undetermined the question of use to which
the books could be put.
A party is privileged from producing his books in a prosecution against
himself but is not privileged from their production.
A criminal cannot protect himself by getting the legal title to corporate
books. Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478.
The production of a documentary confession by a third person,.into
whose hands it has come alio intuitu, does not compel the witness to
be a witness against himself in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
On appeal from a conviction, where there is evidence tending to support
the finding and no certificate that all the evidence is in the record
this court is not warranted in declaring, as matter of law, that the
Government did not make out a case.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward J. Fox, with whom Mr. Robert A. Stotz and
Mr. James W. Fox-were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Bullitt was on the brief, for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delitered the opinion of the

court.
This is an indictment for concealing money from the
defendant's trustee in bankruptcy.

The defendant was

convicted and sentenced subject to exceptions which
raised in different forms the questions whether his books
properly were admitted against him and whether the evidence warranted the verdict.On the first point the facts are simply that the books
had been transferred to the trustee in accordance with
ยง 70 of the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 544,
c. 541, and were produced before the grand jury and
before the petit jury at the trial. That the transfer lawfully could be required is established by Matter of Harris,
221 U. S. 274. But the defendant lays hold of an expression in that case, 'the properly careful provision to protect him from use of the books in aid of prosecution,' as
an intimation that the books could not be put to such a
use.
Courts proceed step by step.

And we now have to

consider whether the cautious statement in the former
case marked the limit of the law in a case where no rights,
if there were any, were saved when the books were transferred. The anwer was implied in that decision. A party
is privileged from producing the evidence but not from its
production. The transfer by bankruptcy is no different
from a transfer by execution of a volume with a confession
written on the fly leaf. It is held that a criminal cannot
protect himself by getting the legal title to corporate
books.

Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478. But the

converse proposition is by no means true, that he may
keep the protection from the introduction of documentary

evidence that he would have had while he retained it,
after the title and possession have gone to some one else.
It is true that the transfer of the books may have been

BURLINGHAM v. CROUSE.
228 U. S.

Syllabus.

against the defendant's will, but it is compelled by the law
as a necessary incident to the distribution of his property,
not in order to obtain criminal evidence against him. Of
course a man cannot protect his property from being used
to pay his debts by attaching to it a disclosure of crime.
If the documentary confession comes to; a third hand alio
intuitu, as this did, the use of it in court does not compel
the defendant to be a witness against himself.
As to the question of evidence, it is enbugh to say that
there was evidence tending as far as it went to show that
the defendant foresaw what was coming and attempted
to save something from the wreck. There is no certificate
that all the evidence is before us, and we should not be
warranted in declaring As matter of law that the Government did not make out a case. See Seigel v. Cartel, 164
Fed. Rep. 691.
Judgment affirmed.

BURLINGHAM ET AL., TRUSTEES OF McINTYRE
& COMPANY, v. CROUSE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 184.

Argued March 12, 13, 1913.-Decided April 28, 1913.

In construing a general reference to property in the Bankruptcy Act,
weight must be given to a proviso dealing with a special class of
property.
A proviso may sometimes mean additional legislation and not be intended to have the usual and primary office of a proviso which is to
limit generalities and exclude from the scope of the statute that
which otherwise would be within its terms.
Life insurance is property, but it is peculiar property, and Congress

