McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

McCOACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. MINEHILL & SCHUYLKILL HAVEN
RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 670.

Argued January 14, 15, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The corporation tax is imposed upon the doing of corporate business
and with respect to the carrying on thereof and not upon the franchises or property of the corporation irrespective of their use in
business. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 145.
A railway corporation which has leased its railroad to another company
operating it exclusively but which maintains its corporate existence
and collects and distributes to its stockholders the rental from the
lessee and also dividends from investments is not doing businesS
within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act. Park Realty Company Case sub Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 171, distinguished,
and Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187, followed.
Quwre whether such a corporation would be subject to the.tax if it
exercised the power of eminent domain or other corporate powers
for the benefit of the lessee.
192 Fed. Rep. 670, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act as to what constitutes
doing business by a corporation so as to subject it to the
tax, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt for petitioner:
The Minehill Company was "engaged in business" and
was therefore subject to the Federal corporation tax.
The Corporation Tax Law is intended to tax the privilege of doing business with the advantages of corporate
organization. Section 38, act of August 5, 1909; Flint v.,
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 145, 146, 151, 171.
The business engaged in, done, and carried on by the
Minehill Company includes stockholders' meetings, election of officers, etc.; declaration of dividends, corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Respondents.

228 U. S.

reports, etc.; collection of rentals, revenue, dividends,
interest, and management of finances and invested funds;
payment of taxes; maintenance of offices, clerical force,
etc.; preservation of corporate franchises, existence, etc.
Arrowsmith v. Nashville &c. R. R. Co., 57 Fed. Rep.
165; Lewis, Receivers, &c. v. G., N. & P. R. R. Co.,
16 Phila.,608; P. R. R. Co. v. Sly, 65 Pa. St. 205; Snyder
v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 210 Pa. St. 500; Elliott on Railroads,
par. 461, note 91; 3 Thompson on Corporations, § 2516.
The foregoing activities constitute a "doing of business"
within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law. They
involve continuity of business without interruption by
death or dissolution; transfer of property interests by the
disposition of shares of stock; advantages of business,
controlled and managed by corporate directors; general
absence of individual liability; keeping alive corporate
existence; investment and reinvestment of surplus assets.
The present case is controlled by the various real estate
cases of Cedar Street Co. v. Park Realty Co.; Lacroix v.
Motor Taximeter Cab Co.; Mitchell v. Clark Iron Co., all
decided in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; and it is
not controlled by Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate, 220
U. S. 187. There are decided points of difference between
the Minehill Co. and the Minneapolis Syndicate.
The lower courts erred in assuming that the Reading
Railway was paying taxes upon the $252,612 rental,
whereas in fact the Reading Railway was allowed to deduct that amount from its gross profits in determining
the net profit upon which it should pay taxes.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Mr. Wm. B.
Bodine, Jr., and Mr. Eli Kirk Price were on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. E. ParmaleePrentice, Mr. George Welwood Murray
and Mr. Charles P. Howland, by leave of the court, filed
a brief as amici curi.

McCOACH v. MIIftHILL RAILWAY CO. - 297
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Minehill & Schuylkill Haven Railroad Co., the
respondent herein (called for convenience the Minehill.
Company), sued the petitioner, who is Collector of Internal Revenue at Philadelphia, to recover certain taxes
for the years 1909 and 1910 paid under protest by that
company under the Corporation Tax Act of 1909. The
United States Circuit Court held that the company was
not "engaged in business" within the meaning of the
act, and that therefore the taxes had been illegally assessed, and rendered judgment for their recovery. 192
Fed. Rep. 670. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment, and the case comes here upon certiorari.
The facts appear from the plaintiff's statement of
claim and the defendant's affidavit of defense, which
latter was overruled as insufficient. They may-be summarized as follows: The Minehill Company was incorporated by an act of the legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, approved March 24, 1828 (P. L., p. 205), for the
purpose of constructing and operating a railroad, with
appropriate powers, including the power of eminent domain. Under this charter a railroad was built and for
many years operated. Under the authority of general acts
of the legislature, approved respectively April 23, 1861
(P.L., p.410), and February 17, 1870 (P.L., p.31), the
Minehill Company, in the year 1896, leased its entire
railroad, with all side-tracks, extensions, and appurtenances of every kind, and all rolling stock and personal
property of every description in use or adapted for use
in,upon, or about the railroad (excepting some property
intended to have been described in a schedule annexed
to the lease, but which is not described, no such schedule
having been annexed), and also-"All the rights, powers,
franchises (other than the franchise of being a corporation), and privileges which may now, or at any time

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

hereafter during the time hereby demised, be lawfully
exercised or enjoyed in or about the use, management,
maintenance, renewal, extension, alteration, or improvement of the demised premises, or any of them," unto the
Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company for a term of
nine hundred and ninety-nine years from January 1, 1897,
at a yearly rental of $252,612, that being equivalent to six
per centum upon the capital stock of the Minehill Company.
The lessee agreed to keep the road in good order and
repair, keep it in public usb and efficiently operate it, and
return it to the lessor company at the expiration or other
determination of the lease. The Minehill Company agreed
during the term of the lease to maintain its corporate
existence and organization, and that when requested by
the lessee it would "put in force and exercise each and
every corporate power, and do each and every corporate
act which the Minehill Company might now, or at any
time hereafter, lawfully put in force or exercise, to enable
the Railway Company (the lessee) to enjoy, avail itself of,
and exercise, every right, franchise, and privilege in respect of the use, management, maintenance, renewal, extension, etc., of the property demised, and of the business
to be there carried on." It was provided that upon default
in the payment of the rent reserved, or in the performance
of certain other covenants, the lessor might declare the
lease forfeited and reenter and repossess the demised
premises. The lease further provided that the lessee
might, under certain circumstances, abandon certain railway lines, "whenever it shall be found legally practicable
to abandon so much of the said lines of railroad, without
working a forfeiture or any impairment of the chartered
rights and franchises of the Minehill Company as to its
railroads, or any part thereof, or without creating any
liability on the part of the Minehill Company or the Railway Company, to the public or the Commonwealth, for

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the non-user of such portions of the railroad lines." In
the event thus provided foi the abandoned rails, machinery, etc., are to be sold and the proceeds turned over to
the Minehill Company, and the annual rental proportionately reduced.
Pursuant to this lease the entire railroad and all property connected therewith was turned over to the Reading
Company, and since then has been operated by that company, and the Minehill Company has not carried on any
business in connection with the operation of it. It has,
however, maintained its corporate existence and organization by the annual election of a president and board of
managers, and this board has annually elected a secretary
and treasurer. It receives annually from the Reading
Company the fixed rental called for by the lease, and it
receives annually sums of money as interest on its bank
deposits, and also maintains a "contingent fund," from
which it receives annual sums as interest or dividends.
And it annually pays the ordinary and necessary expenses
of maintaining its office and keeping up the activities of
its corporate existence, including the payment of salaries
to its officers and clerks. It keeps and maintains at its
offices; stock books for the transfer of its capital stock, and
this stock is bought and sold upon the market. The
annual income from the contingent fund appears to be
about $24,000, its annual payments for state taxes about
as much, and its expenditures for corporate maintenance
about $5,000.
The Corporation Tax Law (act of August 5, 1909, § 38;
36 Stat., c. 6, pp. 11, 112-117), provides:
. . organized for profit
"That every corporation
and having a capital stock represented by shares .
and engaged in business in any state . . . shall be
subject to pay annually a special excise tax with respect
to the carrying on or doing business by such corporation . . . equivalent to one per centum upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

entire net income over and above five thousand dollars
received by it from all sources during such year, exclusive of amounts received by it as dividends upon stock of
other corporations

.

.

.

subject to the tax hereby im-

posed.
"Such net income shall be ascertained by deducting
from the gross amount of the income of such corporation,

.

.

.

received within the year from all sources,

(first) all the ordinary and necessary expenses actually
paid within the year out of income in the maintenance
and operation of its business and properties, including all
charges such as rentals or franchise payments, required
to be made as a condition to the continued use or posgession of property; (second) all losses actually sustained
within the year and not compensated by insurance or
otherwise, including a reasonable allowance for depreciation of property,
In Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, the question
of the constitutionality of this act was presented here for
decision. Upon the preliminary question of interpretation the court said (pp. 145, 146):
"It is therefore apparent, giving all the words of the
statute effect, that the tax is imposed not upon the franchises of the corporation irrespective of their use in business, nor upon the property of the corporation, but upon
the doing of corporate or insurance business and with
respect to the carrying on thereof, in a sum equivalent to
one per centum upon the entire net income over and
above $5,000 received from all sources during the year;
that is, when imposed in this manner it is a tax upon the
doing of business with the advantages which inhere in
the peculiarities of corporate or joint stock organizations
of the character described. As the latter organizations
share many benefits of corporate organization it may be
described generally as a tax upon the doing of business in
a corporate capacity.

.

The income is not limited

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to such as is received from property used in the business,
strictly speaking, but is expressly declared to be upon the
entire net income above $5,000 from all sources, excluding
the amounts received as dividends on stock in other
corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or
insurance companies also subject to the tax. In other
words, the tax is imposed upon the doing of business of
the character described, and the measure of the tax is to
be the income, with the deduction stated, received not
only from property used in business, but from every
source."
In discussing the constitutional question, reference was
first made to the case of Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., 157 U. S. 429, 158 U. S. 601, which held the income
tax provisions of the act of August 27, -1894 (28 Stat., c.
349, pp. 509, 553, §27, etc.), to be unconstitutional because amounting to a direct tax within the meaning of
the Constitution, and because not apportioned according
to population as required by that instrument. Attention
was called (220 U. S. 148) to the expressions used by Mr.
Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court in the Pollock
Case, upon the rehearing, as to the distinction between a
tax upon the income derived from real estate and from
invested personal property, on the one hand, and an excise
tax upon business privileges, employments, and vocations,
upon the other. Reference was also made to the interpretation put upon the decision in the Pollock Case in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, 80, and in Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, and it was held
(p. 150) that the corporation tax law of 1909 "does not
impose direct taxation upon property solely because of its
ownership, but the tax is within the class which Congress
is authorized to lay and collect under Art. I, § 8, cl. 1 of
the Constitution, and described generally as taxes, duties,
imposts and excises, upon which the limitation is that they
shall be uniform throughout the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

In applying this principle to the several cases then sub
judice-in some of which the validity of the tax was challenged by the stockholders of certain real estate companies whose business was principally the holding and
management of real'estate-the court dealt, among others
(220 U. S. 170), with the Park Realty Co., organized to
"work, develop, sell, convey, mortgage or otherwise dispose of real estate; to lease, exchange, hire or otherwise
acquire property; to erect, alter or improve buildings; to
conduct, operate, manage or lease hotels, apartment
houses, etc.; to make and carry out contracts in the manner specified concerning buildings . . . and generally to deal in, sell, lease, exchange or otherwise deal with
lands, buildings and other property, real or personal," etc.
At the time the bill was filed in that case the business of
the Park Realty Company related only to the management and leasing of one hotel. Others of the realty companies that were before the court were engaged in more
extensive business transactions. The court held (p. 171):
"We think it is clear that corporations organized for
the purpose of doing business, and actually engaged in
such activities as leasing property, collecting rents, managing office buildings, making investments of profits, or
leasing ore lands and collecting royalties, managing
wharves, dividing profits, and in some cases investing
the surplus, are engaged in business within the meaning
of this statute, and in the capacity necessary to make
such organizations subject to the law."
Another case argued and decided at the same time, but
separately reported, is Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate,
220 U. S. 187. In this case the court held that the corporation was not doing business in such wise as to make it
subject to the tax imposed by the act of 1909, because
while originally organized for and engaged in the business
of letting stores and offices in a building owned by it, and
collecting and receiving rents therefor, it had afterwards

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made a lease of all lands belonging to it to certain trustees
for a term of 130 years, and then had caused its articles of
incorporation, which had been those of a corporation organized for profit, to be so amended as to confine the purpose of the corporation to the ownership of the lands in
question, subject to the lease, and "for the convenience
of its stockholders to receive, and to distribute among
them, from time to time, the rentals that accrue, under
said lease, and the proceeds of any disposition of said
land." The court said (p. 190):
"The corporation involved in the present case, as originally organized and owning and renting an office building, was doing business Within the meaning of the statute
as we have construed it. Upon the record now presented
we are of opinion that the Minneapolis Syndicate, after
the demise of the property and reorganization of the corporation, was not engaged in doing business within the
meaning of the act. It had wholly parted with control
and management of the property; its sole authority was
to hold the title subject to the lease for 130 years, to receive and distribute the rentals which might accrue under
the terms of the lease, or the proceeds of any sale of the
land if it should be sold. The corporation had practically
gone out of business in connection with the property and
had disqualified itself by the terms of reorganization from
any activity in respect to it."
The precise question presented by the present record ip
whether the Minehill Company is "doing business" in the
sense in which the realty companies concerned in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 170, were doing business,
or had gone out of business in substantially the same sense
that the Minneapolis Syndicate had done so.
From the facts as stated above it is entirely clear that
the Minehil Company was not, during the years of 1909
and 1910, engaged at all in the business of maintaining or
operating a. railroad, which was the prime object of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

incorporation. This business, by the lease of 1896, it had
turned over to the Reading Company. If that lease had
been made without authorization of law, it may be that
for some purposes, and possibly for the present purpose,
the lessee might be deemed in law the agent of the lessor;
or at least the lessor held estopped to deny such agency.
But the lease was made by the express authority of the
State that created the Minehill Company, conferred upon
it its franchise, and imposed upon it the correlative public duties. The effect of this legislation and of the lease
made thereunder was to constitute the Reading Company the public agent for the operation of the railroad and
to prevent the Minehill Company from carrying on business in respect of the maintenance and operation of the
railroad so long as the lease shall continue. And it is the
Reading Company, and not the Minehill Company, that
is "doing business" as a railroad company upon the lines
covered by the lease and is taxable because of it. The
Corporation Tax Law does not contemplate double taxation in respect of the same business.
The Government points out that by the terms of the
act the Reading Company is allowed to deduct from its
gross income the $252,612 paid annually to the Minehill
Company for rentals under the lease, with the result that,
unless the latter company is held to be "doing business"
as a railroad company, both lessor and lessee entirely escape from taxation on $252,612 of income. But an examination of the act shows that this is the precise result
intended by Congress. "Net income shall be ascertained
by deducting from the gross amount of the income . .
(first) all the ordinary and necessary expenses actually
paid within the year out of income in the maintenance
and operation of its business and properties, including all
charges such as rentals or franchise payments, required to be
made as a condition to the continued use or possession
of the property." The deduction of rentals is not confined

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Opinioir of the Court.

to such as are paid to companies that are subject to the
tax imposed by the act; and yet the suggestiori that it
might be so confined was present in the mind of the draftsman, for below there is a provision for deducting "(fifth)
all amounts received
of other corporations

.

.

.

.

. as dividends upon stock
subject to the tax hereby

imposed." In short, Congress said, and intended to say,
as to rentals paid for the use or possession of property
and franchises employed by the lessee company in a business taxable under the act,-Let there be a deduction by
the lessee of the amount of such rentals, whether the
lessor is within the reach of the taxing scheme or not.
We conclude that the Minehill Company was not
taxable with respect to the railroad business.
It should be mentioned that there is nothing in the
record to show that during the taxing years in question
the company exercised its power of eminent domain, or
put in force any other special corporate power, in aid of
the business of the lessee. We therefore do not pass upon
the question whether, if it should do so, it would be taxable
under the act in question. We cannot, however, agree
with the contention made in behalf of the Government
that because the Minehill Company retains its franchise of
corporate existence, maintains its organization, and holds,
itself ready to exercise its franchise of eminent domain, or
other reserved powers, if and when required by the lessee,
and ready to resume possession of the property at the
expiration of the lease, it is therefore to be treated as
doing business, in respect of the railroad, within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law. As to these matters the
case is governed by what was said by the court in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 145,-" It is therefore apparent,
giving all the words of the statute effect, that the tax is
imposed not upon the franchises of the corporation irrespective of their use in business, nor upon the property
of the corporation, but upon the doing of corporate or
VOL. ccxxviii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

.228 U. S.

insurance business and with respect to the carrying on
thereof." And again, p. 150,-"The tax is not payable
unless there be a carrying on or doing of business in the
designated capacity, and this is made the occasion for the
tax, measured by the standard prescribed."
There remains to be considered the fact that the Minehill Company has a considerable amount of personal
assets known as its "contingent fund," in the form of investments (the amount and particulars are not specified),
from which it derives an annual income of about $24,000;
that it keeps a deposit in bank, receives and collects interest upon such deposit, and distributes the income thus
received, as well as the rentals received from the Reading
Company (after payment of expenses and taxes), to its
stockholders in the form of dividends.
In our opinion the mere receipt of income from the
property leased (the property being used in business by
the lessee and not by the lessor) and the receipt of interest
and dividends from invested funds, bank balances, and the
like, and the distribution thereof among the stockholders
of the Minehill Company, amount to no more than receiving the ordinary fruits that arise from the ownership of
property. The ground of the decision in the Pollock Case
was that a tax upon income received from real estate and
invested personal property (as distinguished from income
received from the transaction of business) was in effect a
direct tax upon the property itself, and therefore invalid
unless apportioned according to population. In the
Flint Case, in sustaining the act of 1909 as a tax upon the
privilege of doing business in corporate form, against the
objection that it includes within its reach the income of
real estate and personal property not used in the business
and not the subject of taxation, the court said (220 U. S.
163): "The measure of such tax may be the income from
the property of the corporation, although a part of such
income is derived from property in itself non-taxable."

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And again, after referring to previous decisions (220 U. S.
165): "It is therefore well settled by the decisions of this
court that when the sovereign authority has exercised the
right to tax a legitimate subject of taxation as an exercise of a franchise or privilege, it is no objection that the
measure of taxation is found in the income produced in
part from property which of itself considered is nontaxable. Applying that doctrine to this case, the measure
of taxation being the income of the corporation from all
sources, as that is but the measure of a privilege tax
within the lawful authority of Congress to impose, it is
no valid objection that this measure includes, in part
at least, property which as such could not be directly
taxed. . . . The tax must be measured by some standard, and none can be chosen which will operate with absolute justice and equality upon all corporations. Some corporations do a large business upon a small amount of
capital; others with a small business may have a large
capital. A tax upon the amount of business done might
operate as unequally as a measure of excise as it is alleged
the measure of income from all sources does. Nor can it
be justly said that investments have no real relation to
the bijsiness transacted by a corporation. The possession
of large assets is a business advantage of great value; it
may give credit Which will result in more economical
business methods; it may give a standing which shall
facilitate purchases; it may enable the corporation to
enlarge the field of its activities and in many ways give it
business standing and prestige."
In short, the inclusion of income derived from property
in arriving at the measure of the tax to be imposed with
respect to the doing of corporate business was sustained
largely because the property not used in the business, and
the income from such property, have a fair relation to the
business itself, and may contribute materially to its proper
and economical conduct. But that reasoning furnishe*

OCTOBER TERM,- 1912.
Dissenting Opinion: Day, Hughes, Lamar, JJ.

228 U. S.

no support for the contention that the mere receipt of
income from property, and the payment of organization
and administration expenses incidental to the receipt and
distribution thereof, constitute such a business as is
taxable within the meaning of the act of 1909. The
distinction is between (a) the receipt of income from outside property or investments by a company that is otherwise engaged in business; in which event the investmentincome may be added to the business-income in order to
arrive at the measure of the tax, and (b) the receipt of
income from property or investments by a company that is
not engaged in business except the business of owning the
property, maintaining the investments, collecting the income and dividing it among its stockholders. In the former
case the tax is payable; in the latter not.
And so, upon the whole, we think the court below correctly held that the present case is governed by Zonne v.
Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187, and that the taxes
under consideration were unlawfully imposed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTiCE DAY, with whom concur MR. JUSTICE
HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the majority
of the court. It seems to me that, applying the principles
laid down in the Corporation Tax Cases, 220 U. S. 107,
the Minehill & Schuylkill Haven Railroad Company is a
corporation doing business within the meaning of the law
and subject to the tax.
We are advised by.a brief filed by an amicus curice that
the decision in this case will affect a number of cases now
pending, and, owing to its importance as affecting the
public revenue, I feel justified in briefly stating the grounds
of my dissent.
The corporation tax is imposed under the terms of the

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U.S.

Dissenting Opinion: Day, Hughes, Lamar, JJ.

law upon every corporation organized for profit, having
a capital stock represented by shares and engaged in
business in any State. Every such corporation is subject
to a special excise tax with respect to the carrying on or
doing of business, equivalent to one per cent. upon the
entire net income over and above $5,000 received by it
from all sources during the taxing year. This tax, it was
held in 220 U. S., was constitutionally imposed, and rests
upon the doing of business with the advantages which
inhere in the peculiarities of corporate or joint stock
organization. As was said in that case, doing business
is a very comprehensive term, embracing about everything in which a person can be employed, and the definition of business as "that which occupies the time, attention
and labor of men for the purpose of a livelihood or profit"
was adopted and approved. As is said in the majority
opinion, the precise question in this case is, Was the
Minehill Company doing business in the sense in which
the term is employed in the law or had it gone out of business in such substantial sense that it was no longer subject to the law?
I do not care to restate the facts which are developed
fully in the majority opinion. It therein appears that the
Minehill Company, while it has leased its railroad for a
term of years, still maintains corporate organization, keeps
an office and an office force and collects the rentals from
the lessee company and distributes the sums among its
shareholders. It has also agreed to keep up its corporate
organization, and, if necessary, to use its corporate powers
for the benefit of the lessee. And its activities do not stop
here. The affidavit in defense filed by the collector, which
I understand the Pennsylvania practice takes as true,
shows that. the company receives annually sums of money
as interest on deposits and maintains a contingent fund
from which it also receives annual sums as dividends.
The return discloses that the amount of dividends re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Dissenting Opinion: Day, Hughes, Lamar, JJ.

228 U. S.

ceived for the year ending December 31, 1909, as interest
on deposits and from its contingent fund was $24,471.07.
The nature and amount of the investments are not specified in the record, but they must be very considerable,
in view of the annual income derived.
We are therefore brought to the direct question, Is a live
corporation which, though it has leased its railroad property for a term of years, maintains and has agreed to maintain its corporate organization, collects and distributes
an annual rental of $252,612, keeps and maintains an
office and an office force at large expense, deposits money
upon interest and receives and distributes the earnings
thereof, invests a large fund which, together with interest
on deposits, yields over $24,000 a year, doing business
within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act? The
amount of business done is utterly immaterial. The doing
of any business with the advantages which inhere in corporate organization brings the corporation within the
terms of the act. Such was the ruling in the Flint Case,
after full consideration by. this court of the terms and
scope of the law.
It is said, however, that this case is controlled by the
ruling in the Zonne Case, which was decided at the same
time as the Flint Case, 220 U. S. 187. It seems to me that
the present case is quite unlike that one. There the corporation which owned a piece of real estate had leased it
for a term of 130 years at an annual rental of $61,000 and
had at the same time amended its corporate organization
so as to limit its powers to the sole purpose of holding
the title to the lands leased and of receiving and distributing among its stockholders the rentals that accrued under
the lease and the proceeds from any disposition of the
land. This was the whole extent of its activity, and the
amounts derived therefrom represented its entire income.
In that case the court held that the corporation had
practically gone out of business and had disqualified

McCOACH v. MINEHILL RAILWAY CO.
228 U. S.

Dissenting Opinion: Day, Hughes, Lama, JJ.

itself from any activity in respect thereof, and therefore
did not come within the scope of the act.
In the present case the corporation has not disqualified
itself from business activity. It maintains a considerable
force in active employment and, entirely apart from the
receipts from the railroad lease, so deposits and invests
its funds as to create, in these days of low interest upon
good investments, an annual income of over $24,000,
as appears by its return. The amount derived from investments depends upon the exercise of judgment and
the efficiency of management. If business includes everything that occupies the time, attention and labor of men
for profit, it seern to me that these facts show that the
Minehill Company is carrying on business in the present
instance.
I am unable to agree that a corporation whose officers
and agents are engaged in its behalf in selecting banks
in which to deposit large sums of money, in passing upon
and choosing securities in which corporate funds are to
be invested, and then in distributing the interest and
profits accruing therefrom among its stockholder, is
not engaged in doing business in the sense that the corporation in the Zonne Case was not.
I think the present case is much nearer theruling made
by this court in the Corporation Tax Cases in the matter
of the realty companies therein involved. Take, for instance, the Park Realty Company. That corporation
was organized to work, develop, sell and convey real
estate; to lease, exchange, hire or otherwise acquire property; to erect, alter or improve buildings; to conduct,
operate, manage or lease hotels, etc. It appeared that
at the time of the imposition of the tax the sole business
or property owned by the Realty Company was the Hotel
Leonori. It was leased for 21 years at an annual rental
of $55,000. The corporation was engaged in no business,
except the management and lease of that hotel property,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

and was in receipt of no other income than that derived
from its rental, and has no assets other than that property
and the income thereof. It was held to be doing business
within the meaning of the act. The Minehill Company,
it seems to me, is doing more and a greater variety of
business than was attributed to the Park Realty Company
as the basis of the assessment upon it. Others of the realty
companies held taxable in the Corporation Tax Cases, it
seems to me, were engaged in as little business activity
as is the corporation herein involved.
With deference to the majority opinion, I think the
Minehill Company, upon the facts here adduced, is engaged in business and ought to be held liable to the tax.

McGOWAN, EXECUTRIX OF McGOWAN, v.
PARISH, EXECUTRIX OF PARISH.
IN THE MATTER OF THE APPLICATION FOR ALLOWANCE OF
AN APPEAL FROM A DECREE OF THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. -.

Submitted January 13, 1913.-Decided April 14, 1913.

An appeal lies from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia under subd. 6 of § 250 of the Judicial Code where the construction of a law of the United States of general application was
drawn in question and was considered and passed upon; and so held
that an appeal should have been allowed in this case as § 3477, Rev.
Stat., is such a statute and the case is not so frivolous as to deprive
of the right of appeal allowed by § 250.
Appeal from 40 Wash. Law Rep. 726, allowed.

facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of § 250 of the Judicial Code regulating appeals to
THE

