SWEENEY v. ERVING.
228 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

SWEENEY v. ERVING.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OP
COLUMBIA.

No. 60.

Argued February 28, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

Where the rule of res ipsa loquitur applies, it does not have the effect
of shifting the burden of proof.
Res ipsa loquitur means that the facts of the occurrence warrant an
inference of negligence, not that they compel such an inference, nor
does res ipsa loquitur convert the defendant's general issue into an
affirmative defense.
Even if the rule of res ipsa loquitur applies, when all the evidence is in
it is for the jury to determine whether the preponderance is with the
plaintiff.
Where the terms -of a request to charge are self-contradictory and confusing, that reason is in itself a sufficient ground for the trial court to
reject it.
A medical specialist, called on to operate upon the patient of another
physician who has assumed the responsibility of advising the operation, does not, as a matter of law on the facts disclosed in this case,
undertake the responsibility of making a special study of the patient's
condition or of giving advice as to possibility of injury resulting
therefrom.
35 App. D. C. 57, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of a medical
specialist for injuries caused by burns resulting from an
X-ray operation performed by him on the patient of another physician, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey for plaintiff in error:
Expert testimony was not essential in order to prove
negligence, as in cases against physicians and surgeons.
Vaughan v. Menlove, 3 Bing. N. C. 468, 475; Oceanic
Steam Nay. Co. v. Aitken, 196 U. S. 589, 596.

The injury to plaintiff was caused by an agency in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

228 U.S.

possession of the defendant and under his exclusive management and control. From this arises the presumption of
negligence on his part and the burden then devolves upon
him to overcome that presumption, if he can, by evidence
sufficient to satisfy the jury that the injury was not caused
by negligence on his part. Res ipsa loquitur applies.
Kohner v. Capital Traction Co., 22 App. D. C. 181, 187,
190, Shockley v. Tucker, 127 Iowa, 456, 458; Heuslin v.
Wheaton, 91 Minnesota, 219; Wigmore, Evid., ยง 2509;
Hicherson v. Neely, 21 Ky. L. R. 1257; Sauers v. Smits,
95 Pac. Rep. 1097; Gannon v. Gas Co., -145 Missouri,
502; Von Treba v. Laclede Gaslight Co., 209 Missouri, 648;
Brown v. Consolidated Light Co., 109 S. W. Rep. 1032;
Moglia v. Nassau Electric R. Co., 111. N. Y. Supp. 70;
Gurdon & Ft. S. Ry. Co. v. Calhoun, 86 Arkansas, 76;
Mitchell v. C. & A. Ry. Co., 132 Mo. App. 143; Eaton v.
N. Y. C. & H. R. Co., 109 N. Y. S. 419; Anderson v. McCarthy Dry Goods Co., 49 Washington, 398.
If the plaintiff's condition was such as to predispose her
to dangerous consequences from the operation, that fact
does not relieve the defendant from liability for his negligent act which produced such consequences. Mo., K. &
T. Ry. Co. of Texas v. Byrd, 89 S. W: Rep. 991; Mullin v.
Flanders, 73 Vermont, 95; Sauers v. Smits, 95 Pac. Rep.
1098; Baute v. Haynes, 31 Ky. L. R. 876.
Mr. A. S. Worthington and Mr. Charles L. FraiTey for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, who was likewise the plaintiff
below, sued the defendant in error in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia to recover damages for personal injuries, sustained, as was alleged, through his negligence in the making of certain X-ray tests upon her

SWEENEY v. ERVING.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

body with the use of apparatus owned and operated by
him. The defendant pleaded the general issue-" not
guilty." Upon the trial, plaintiff adduced evidence tending to prove that she was under treatment by Dr. Kerr, a
surgeon of the City of Washington, for the fracture of a
rib, claimed by her to have been caused by the negligence
of a railway company; that the company denied the
existence of such fracture, and, at its request, she submitted to an X-ray diagnosis by Dr. Grey, a specialist;
that his diagnosis and the radiograph made by him failed
to disclose a fracture; that thereupon Dr. Kerr arranged
with the defendant, Dr. Erving, a specialist in the use
of the X-ray for diagnostic purposes, for an X-ray diagnosis to be made by him; that in pursuance of this arrangement she went four times to the defendant's office, the
first time at Dr. Kerr's request, and on three subsequent
occasions at defendant's request; that on the occasion of
oach visit, defendant subjected her to several exposures of
the X-ray in the effort to obtain a satisfactory picture;
that upon her first visit, and before any exposure, she
told defendant that her employer had told her that the
X-ray was dangerous, in reply to which defendant assured her that there was no more danger to her than to
himself, and defendant's wife, who was his assistapt in
the X-ray work, and who was then present, assurea the
plaintiff that the defendant and his wife had never had an
accident in all their experience, and had no more reason to
have one in her case than in the thousand and more
exposures previously made by them; that plaintiff felt
no bad effects from the operation by Dr. Grey, nor from
the operations by the defendant until her fourth visit; that
during one of the exposures at the fourth visit, she felt
bad effects and a sense of faintness, and about five hours
later her back, which was the portion exposed to the X-ray
in all the operations by the defendant, was red and irritated; that in the operation by Dr. Grey it was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

front part of the body that was exposed to the X-ray;
that about two weeks after her fourth visit to the defendant, finding her back was burned and the injury developing, she returned to him and informed him of it, that he
was the first physician who saw the burn, and he treated
it from that time for two or three weeks; that since then,
although treated by other physicians and in hospitals,
the injury has not been cured, in consequence of which
the plaintiff has not been able to work; that the injury is an
X-ray burn, and caused and continues to cause much
suffering. Plaintiff having rested, the defendant introduced evidence tending to prove that both he and his wife
had had long experience in the use of the X-ray machine;
that the machine to which the plaintiff was exposed by
defendant was an excellent machine, in good condition;
that on plaintiff's first visit she was told by defendant's
wife, in the hearing of defendant, that while she and her
husband had subjected many person to X-ray exposures,
and had never had any ill results, it was impossible, by
the use of any degree of care, to prevent occasional X-ray
burns from the use of the apparatus; that at none of the
visits of the plaintiff to the office of defendant for the
purpose of being exposed to the X-ray apparatus did she
make any complaint of ill effects from the exposure. Defendant himself testified fully respecting the character of
his machine and the manner in which it has been used at
each of the plaintiff's visits, and the length of each exposure and the result thereof. Thereupon several practicing physicians of experience testified as experts (having
qualified by showing an acquaintance with the literature
of the subject and also some practical experience in the
use of the X-ray apparatus). Upon the basis of the
defendant's testimony respecting the character of his
X-ray apparatus and the manner of its use upon the
plaintiff and the duration of the several exposures to which
she was subjected, the experts testified that the machine

SWEENEY v. ERVING.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was a good one of its kind, and that the manner in which
it had been used upon the plaintiff was in accordance with
the practice of careful and prudent X-ray operators, and
was as safe as exposures to the X-ray apparatus could be
made; and each of these witnesses further testified that
according to his experience and reading it was not possible
in the use of the X-ray apparatus to guard absolutely'
against a resultant burn.
The case was submitted to the jury under instructions
from the court, and they rendered a verdict in favor of
the defendant. The plaintiff appealed to the Court of
Appeals, Where there was an affirmance (35 App. D. C.
57), and she sued out this writ of error.
The assignments of error present in effect but two
questions1. The plaintiff requested the trial court to instruct the
jury as follows:
"If you believe upon the evidence that in the course of
the operation of the X-ray apparatus by the defendant the
plaintiff was burned, that fact is of itself evidence of negligence on his part, and casts upon him the burden of proving, if he can, by a preponderance of evidence, that the
plaintiff's injury was not caused, in whole or in part, by
his negligence, and in such case, unless you find by a preponderance of the evidence that said injury was not caused
in whole or in part by the defendant's negligence, your
verdict should be for the plaintiff."
The trial judge refused this request, and on the contrary instructed the jury-" That the burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff to establish by a fair preponderance of
the evidence that the burn upon her back was caused
by negligence on the part of the defendant in the
manner in which he subjected her to exposure by the
X-ray."
The contention in behalf of the plaintiff is that since
the injury to the'plaintiff was caused by an agency in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

possession of the defendant and under his exclusive management and control, there arises from this, coupled with
the fact that personal injury resulted therefrom to the
plaintiff, a presumption of negligence on defendant's part,
upon the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, and that the burden
is thereby imposed upon him to overcome that presumption by a preponderance of evidence sufficient to satisfy
the jury that the injury was not caused by negligence on
his part. As will be seen, this contention includes two
propositions; the first, that the case is a proper one for
the application of the doctrine, res ipsa loquitur; the second, that the application of this doctrine relieves the plaintiff from the burden of proof and imposes that burden
upon the defendant. These two propositions were coupled
together in the requested instruction, and, upon familiar
principles, no legal error was committed by the trial court
in refusing the request, if either part of it was not well
founded in law.
In the view we take of the matter, it is not necessary to
pass upon the question whether the evidence presented a
case for the application of the rule res ipsa loquitur; for
the reason that in cases where that rule does apply, it
has not the effect of shifting the burden of proof.
The general rule in actions of negligence is that the mere
proof of an "accident" (using the word in the loose and
popular sense) does not raise any presumption of negligence; but in the application of this rule, it is recognized
that there is a class of cases where the circumstances of
the occurrence that has caused the injury are of a character to give ground for a reasonable inference that if due
care had been employed, by the party charged with care
in the premises, the thing that happened amiss would
not have happened. In such cases it is said, res ipsa loquitur-the thing speaks for itself; that is to say, if
there is nothing to explain or rebut the inference
that aises from the way in which the thing happened,

SWEENEY v. ERVING.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it may fairly be found to have been occasioned by negligence.
The doctrine has been so often invoked to sustain the
refusal by trial courts to non-suit the plaintiff or direct a
verdict in favor of the defendant, that the application of
the rule, where it does apply, in raising a question for the
jury, and thus making it incumbent upon the defendant
to adduce proof if he desires to do so, has sometimes been
erroneously confused with the question of the burden of
proof. But in the requested instruction now under consideration the matter was presented in no equivocal form.
Plaintiff's insistence was not merely that the evidence of
the occurrence of the injury under the circumstances was
evidential of negligence on defendant's part, so as to make
it incumbent upon him to present his proofs; the contention was that it made it necessary for him to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that there was an absence
of negligence on his part.
In Stokes v. Saltonstall (1839), 13 Pet. 181, 190, which
was an action against a stage-coach owner to recover damages for an injury sustained by a passenger through the
upsetting of the coach, the trial court instructed the jury
that-"The facts that the carriage was upset, and the
plaintiff's wife injured, are prima facie evidence that there
was carelessness, or negligence, or want of skill on the part
of the driver, and throw upon the defendant the burden
of proving that the accident was not occasioned by the
driver's fault;" and also, that it was incumbent on the
defendant to prove that the driver was a person of competent skill and good habits, and that he acted on the
occasion in question "with reasonable skill, and with the
utmost prudence and caution." The judgment was sustained by this court against-the contention (p. 193), that
although the facts of the overturning of the coach and the
injury sustained were prima facie evidence of negligence,
they did not throw upon the defendant the burden of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

proving that the overturning and injury were not occasioned by the driver's default, but only that the coachman was a person of competent skill in his business, that
the coach was properly made, the horses steady, etc. A
reading of the report shows that the case turned upon the
high degree of care owing by carrier to passenger, and
that the court did not rule that the circumstances of the
occurrence shifted the burden of proof upon the main
issue. Such is the effect that has uniformly been given to
the decision. New Jersey R. & T. Co. v. Pollard, 22 Wall.
341, 346, 350; PennsylvaniaCo. v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451, 455;
Inland & Seaboard Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551,
554, 555; Gleeson v. Virginia Midland R. Co., 140 U. S.
435, 443, 444; Pattonv. Texas & PacificRy. Co., 179 U. S.
658, 663.
In our opinion, res ipsa loquitur means that the facts
of the occurrence warrant the inference of negligence, not
that they compel such an inference; that they furnish
circumstantial evidence of negligence where direct evidence of it may be lacking, but it is evidence to be weighed,
not necessarily to be accepted as sufficient; that they call
for explanation or rebuttal, not necessarily that they require it; that they make a case to be decided by the jury,
not that they forestall the verdict. Res ipsa loquitur,
where it applies, does not convert the defendant's general
issue into an affirmative defense. When all the evidence
is in, the question for the jury is, whether the preponderance is with the plaintiff.
Such, we think, is the view generally taken of the matter
in well-considered judicial opinions.
Kay v. MetropolitanSt. Ry. Co., 163 N. Y. 447, was an
action by passenger against carrier, and the New York
Court of Appeals said (p. 453): "In the case at bar the
plaintiff made out her cause of action prima facie by the
aid of a legal presumption (referring to res ipsa loquitur),
but when the proof was all in the burden of proof had not

SWEENEY v. ERVING.
228 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

shifted, but was still upon the plaintiff. . . . If the
defendant's proof operated to rebut the presumption upon
which the plaintiff relied, or if it left the essential fact of
negligence in doubt and uncertainty, the party who made
that allegation should suffer, and not her adversary. The
jury were bound to put the facts and circumstances proved
by the defendant into the scale against the presumption
upon which the plaintiff relied, and in determining the
weight to be given to the former as against the latter, they
were bound to apply the rule that the burden of proof was
upon the plaintiff. If, on the whole, the scale did not
preponderate in favor of the presumption and against
defendant's proof, the plaintiff had not made out her
case, since she-had failed to meet and overcome the burden
of proof." The rule thus declared has since been adhered
to in the courts of New York. Hollahan v. Metropolitan
St. Ry. Co., 73 N. Y. App. Div. 164, 169; Adams v. Union
Ry Co., 80 N. Y. App. Div. 136, 139; Dean v. Tarrytown
&c. R. Co., 113 N. Y. App. Div. 437, 439. A similar view
appears to be entertained in New Hampshire. Hart v.
Lockwood, 66 N. H. 541; Boston & Maine R. Co. v. Sargent, 72 N. H. 455, 466. The same rule has been followed
in a recent series of cases in the North Carolina Supreme
Court. Womble v. Grocery Co., 135 N. Car. 474, 481, 485;
Stewart v. CarpetCo., 138 N. Car. 60, 66; Lyles v. Carbonating Co., 140 N. Car. 25, 27; Ross v. Cotton Mills, 140 N. Car.
115, 120; 1 L. R. A. (N. S.) 298, 301. In the Stewart Case
the court said (138-N. Car. 66): "The rule of res 7psa loquitur does not relieve the plaintiff of the burden of showing
negligence, nor does it raise any presumption in his favor.
Whether the defendant introduces evidence or not, the
plaintiff in this case will not be entitled to a verdict unless
he satisfies the jury by the preponderance of the evidence
that his injuries were caused by a defect in the elevator,
attributable to the defendant's negligence. The law attaches no special weight, as proof, to the fact of an acciVOL. ccxxviii-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

dent, but simply holds it to be sufficient for the consideration of the jury, even in the absence of any additional
evidence."
2. The sole remaining question is raised by the refusal
of the trial court to instruct the jury, as prayed by the
plaintiff, in the following terms: "If you believe upon the
evidence that in the ordinary and careful operation of
the X-ray apparatus upon a woman by an operator having
the requisite knowledge and skill enabling him to operate
it with the utmost degree of safety there is a possibility,
which could not be foreseen by such an operator, of injury
to the woman by reason of her condition or of any matter
tending to predispose her to injury in consequence of such
operation and that such possibility was known to the
defendant or by proper inquiry or study should have been
known to him, it was his duty to inform the plaintiff of
such possibility before he operated upon her; and if you
further believe upon the evidence that he failed to perform
such duty, or that in the performance of the operation he
failed to exercise the skill and care required of him as
such operator, and that the plaintiff was thereby injured,
your verdict should be for the plaintiff." The terms of this
request are self-contradictory and confusing--dealing, as
it does, with a possibility of injury to the plaintiff "which
could not be foreseen" by the defendant, and combining
inseparably with it the hypothesis that "such possibility
was known to the defendant or by proper inquiry or study
-hould have been known to him"-and for this reason
alone it was properly rejected by the trial court. But,
besides this, it does not appear that there was any evidence
on which the jury could properly base a finding that there
was danger of injury to the plaintiff by reason of her condition or of any other matter tending to predispose her to
such injury; nor to sustain a finding that such possibility
was known to the defendant, or by proper study or inquiry should have been known to him. Nor could it be

DONNELLY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

228 U. S.

said, as matter of law, that defendant had undertaken
any duty requiring him to make special study or inquiry
respecting plaintiff's condition or the possibility of injury
to her, or to advise her of such possibility of injury; for
there was testimony, already referred to, that would have
warranted a finding that Dr. Kerr had assumed the responsibility of advising the plaintiff respecting the propriety of her submitting to the operation.
No error being found in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.
DONNELLY v. UNITED STATES.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 97.

Argued December 18, 1912.-Decided April 7, 1913.

From an early period Congress has accorded to the Executive a large
discretion about setting apart and reserving portions of the public
domain in aid of particular public purposes.
Section 2 of the act of April 8, 1864, conferring power on-the Executive
to set apart reservations for Indians, was a continuing power and
was not exhausted by the first order establishing reservations thereunder.
The extension of the Hoopa Valley Reservation- made by Executive
Order of October 16, 1891, including a tract of country in California
one mile in width on each side of the Klamath River, was lawfully
established pursuant to the act of 1864.
In view of the history of the case, the custom of the Klamath Indians
for whose benefit the Hoopa Valley Reservation was established, the
Government ownership of the territory and its acquisition from
Mexico under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, as well as the
statutes, and decisions of the courts, of California to the effect that
the Klamath River is a non-navigable stream, held that such reservation included the bed of the Klamath River.
What are navigable streams within the meaning of the local rules of
See also p. 708, post.

