OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

228 U. S.

States ex rel. Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683. In the last
named decision the Litchfield Case was cited with approval,
and it was again reiterated that Congress has placed the
Land Department under the supervision and control of
the Secretary of the Interior, a special tribunal with large
administrative and quasi-judicial functions, to be exerted
for the purpose of the execution of the laws regulating
the disposal of the public lands.
Without, therefore, expressing any opinion upon the
merits, we hold that under the facts stated in the bill
this resort to the courts was premature, and the jiidgment
below must therefore be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No.-705.

Argued February 26, 1913.-Decided April 7, 1913.

The prohibition in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1884, against sale
of cattle purchased by the Government for the Indians without
the consent of the Secretary of the Interior relates to all cattle
purchased by the Government for Indians, and is not limited to
such cattle as has been purchased from unexpended balances under
another provision of the act.
The two provisions of the act above referred to are not interdependent.
Wholly distinct and non-related provisions of a general appropriation

act should not be brought together and construed as one when such
construction defeats the obvious purpose of the act and policy of
the Government declared in that and other acts.
189 Fed. Rep. 262, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of provi-

sions in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1884 relative

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
228 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

to sale of cattle purchased by the Government for the
Indians, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt for the United States:
The transaction is within the letter of the act; that is,
the cattle were really "purchased by the Government."
The cattle were purchased by the Secretary of the
Interior pursuant to specific authority from Congress.
The cattle purchased by the Secretary of the Interior
under the act of June 21, 1906, were "purchased by the
Government" within the spirit and intent (as well as
the letter) of the act of 1884, which prohibited outsiders
from buying from the Indians any of their cattle "which
have been purchased by the Government."
The object of the criminal provision was not to protect
the government property but was to protect the Indians.
The criminal provision applies whether the title to
the cattle be considered in the Government or in the
Indians.
There is no difference between the Government's purchase of stock cattle for the benefit of the Indians out
of surplus subsistence appropriations and its purchase
for issuance to the Indians in exchange for ceded lands.
It has been the policy of the Government to prevent
the whites from purchasing from the Indians cattle which
have been issued to the Indians in exchange for ceded
lands. Act May 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 113, 114; Act June 10,
1896, 29 Stat. 321, 355.
Mr. Arthur C. Emmons filed a brief for defendant in
error:
The cattle were purchased with the Indians' money,
and it makes no difference whether that money was the
purchase pride of his land or the purchase price of his
labor.
The cattle were delivered to the Indians under and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

228 U. S.

pursuant to an agreement, and not by reason of an act of
Congress.
The object of the criminal provision was not to affect
cattle procured by the Indians with their own money or
property.
The criminal provision does not apply to cattle unconditionally owned by the Indians.
There is no similarity between the government purchase
of stock cattle for the benefit of the Indians out of surplus
subsistence appropriations and its delivery of cattle to the
Indians in part payment for the purchase of their land.
It has never been the policy of the Government to
control 4he property acquired by the Indians either by
his labor or the exchange of other property.
The acts of May 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 113, and of June 10,
1896, 29 Stat. 321, 355, show that special provisions were
necessary in order to limit the ownership of the Indians.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
By the Indian Appropriation Act of July 4, 1884, c. 180,
23 Stat. 76, 94, the following general provision was enacted:
"That where Indians are in possession or control of
cattle or their increase which have been purchased by
the Government such cattle shall not be sold to any person
not a member of the tribe to which the owners of the cattle
belong or to any citizen of the United States whether
intermarried with the Indians or not except with the
consent in. writing of the agent of the tribe to which the
owner or possessor of the cattle belongs. And all sales
made in violation of this provision shall be void and the
offending purchaser on conviction thereof shall be fined
not less than five hundred dollars and imprisoned not
less than six months."

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The United States brings this case directly here to
review the action of the court below in sustaining a demurrer to an indictment charging the defendant in error
with a violation of the provision just referred to on the
ground that when rightly construed it did not embrace
the acts charged in the indictment to have been committed
in violation of its provisions. The facts stated in the
indictment as the basis of the charge were these:
"That on the 17th day of June, 1901, an agreement
was entered into between an agent of the United States,
to wit, James McLaughlin, who was then and there acting for and on behalf of the said United States, and the
Klamath and Modoc Tribes of Indians and the Yahooskin
Band of Snake Indians, all -of which said Indians belong to
the Klamath Indian Reservation, located in the State
of Oregon, by the terms of which said agreement the said
Indians ceded to the Government of the United States
approximately six hundred thousand acres of land, for
which said land the said United States was to pay to the
said Indians the sum of $537,007.20 in the manner and
form as follows, that is to say, $25,000 of the said amount
was to be paid in cash to be distributed amongst the said
Indians; $350j000 of the said amount was to be deposited
with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of
the said Indians, which said last-named sum of money
was to draw interest, and the interest thereof was to
be disbursed to the said Indians in annual payments;
that the remaining portion of the said $537,007.20, after
the payment of attorneys' fees, was to be expended for
the benefit of the said Indians, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, and upon request of the said
Indians acting through the proper Indian agent for the
following purposes; that is, in the drainage or irrigation
of their land and in the purchase of stock cattle for issue
to them, and for such other purposes as might in the
discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, best promote

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

the welfare of the said Indians, including a reasonable
cash payment per capita not exceeding ten per centum
of the principal sum.
"That by the act of Congress approved June 21, 1906,
c. 3504, 34 Stats. p. 368, the said agreement was duly
ratified and the sum of $537,007.20 was appropriated out
of the money in the Treasury of the United States, for the
purpose of carrying into effect the aforesaid agreement,
it being provided that out of the sum so appropriated
'$350,000 shall be deposited in the Treasury of the
United States to the credit of said Indians, and the remainder shall be expended as provided in the third article
of said agreement.'
"The grand jurors further find that, acting under
authority of the aforesaid agreement and the act of Congress ratifying the same, the Indians of the Klamath
Indian Reservation made requisition through the United
States Indian agent in charge of said reservation, to the
proper officers of the Government for an issue of cattle
to be made to the said Indians, and thereafter the Indian
Department advertised in the manner provided by law
for the purchase of 4,500 heifers to be delivered at the
Klamath Agency for issue to the said Indians; that pursuant to the said advertisement and in conformity therewith and after receiving proper bids, the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs did, on May, 1909, purchase of and from
one Wm.Hanley, of Portland, Oregon, 4,000 heifers,
which were delivered during the month of August, 1,909,
to the superintendent of the Klamath Indian Reservation at Klamath Agency, Oregon, and thereafter payment
was duly made to the said Wm.Hanley from money
appropriated to carry into effect he aforesaid agreement.
"That after the cattle were duly delivered to the superintendent of said Indian Reservation they were branded
with the United States Government brand and were
issued to the various Indians on said reservation who

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were entitled thereto, and that each Indian upon receipt of
his apportioned number of cattle branded the same with
his own individual brand; that Frank Lynch and Elmer
Lynch were two Indians residing on said Klamath Indian
Reservation who were entitled to and who received cattle
that had been purchased and issued in the manner aforesaid.
"And the grand jurors further find, allege, and present
that 0. T. Anderson on, to wit, the 24th day of October,
1910, in Klamath County, in the State and district of
Oregon, and within the jurisdiction of this court, did then
and there knowingly and unlawfully purchase of and from
Frank Lynch and Elmer Lynch, who were then and there
Indians living and residing within the limits of the Klamath Indian Reservation and wards of the Government,
fifteen head of cattle, a more accurate description of
which cattle is to the grand jurors aforesaid unknown,
said cattle being then and there in the possession of the
said Frank Lynch and Elmer Lynch, and which said
cattle so purchased as aforesaid by the said defendant had
been before that time bought by the Government of the
United States and issued to the said Frank Lynch and
Elmer Lynch in the manner heretofore set out in this
indictment, and that the said 0. T. Anderson, defendant
above named at' the time of so purchasing the said cattle
from the said Indians was not a member of the tribe of
Indians to which the said Frank Lynch and Elmer Lynch
belonged, nor wag he a member of any Indian tribe, and
that the sale of said cattle of the said Fr'ank Lynch and
Elmer Lynch and the purchase thereof by the said 0. T.
Anderson, defendant as aforesaid, was without the consent in writing or otherwise by the agent in charge of
said Indians, and that at the time of the purchase of
said cattle by .the said 0. T. Anderson as aforewid he,
the' said 0. T. Anderson, well knew that the said Frank
Lynch and Elmer Lynch were Indians and wards of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

Government of the United States and that the cattle so
purchased by him had before that time been issued by
the Government of the United States to the aforesaid
Indians, contrary to the form of the statute in such case
made and provided and against the peace and dignity
of the United States of America."
As we have said, the provision charged to have been
violated was enacted as part of a general Indian appropriation bill. In such bill there was a clause authorizing
the President to us "any sum appropriated for the subsistence of the Indians and not absolutely necessary for
that purpose, for the purchase of cattle for the benefit
of the tribe for whom such appropriation is made."'
23 Stat., p. 97. Although this clause was not even by
proximity associated with the provision here involved;
indeed the' two were separated by many intervening and
entirely distinct provisions, and there was nothing from
which otherwise the inference was deducible that they
were intended to be associated, the court below thought,
because they were in the same appropriation bill, it was
essential to'treat them as interdependent. Upon this
premise as it was deemed that the sum of the unexpended
appropriations was 'money of the United States, the inference was deduced that cattle bought with such money
were the property of the United States after their delivery
to Indians on a reservation and that only cattle so owned
were covered by the prohibition against sale.
Coming to determine whether the facts stated in the
indictment brought the case within the statute as thus
interpreted, it was held that as the money with which
the cattle embraced in the indictment were bought was
Indian money, the price of land sold by them to the
United States, the relation of principal and agent existed
and hence the cattle when bought were acquired by the
Indians through the United States as their representative,
were owned by them and their sale was not within the

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
228 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prohibition against sale. In addition this result was
fortified by what was decided to be the intent of Congress
in enacting the prohibition against sale, that is, the protection of the property of the United States and not the
preventing the Indians on a reservation from selling their
own cattle. But conceding without so deciding, the
soundness of the inference deduced from the premise
upon which the court proceeded, we are of opinion that
error was committed in bringing together wholly distinct
and non-related provisions simply because they were
found in one general appropriation bill and thus interpreting thd act not by its true text, but by an imaginary
context. When the ambiguity produced by the erroneous
consolidation is removed, the text is, we think, free from
obscurity. The cattle bought under the conditions stated
in the indictment were beyond doubt "cattle purchased
by the United States" and which were on the reservation
"in possession and control" of the Indian by whom it -is
charged they were wrongfully sold. The theory that
the words possession and control contemplated only
cattle which belqnged to the United States cannot be
indulged in without reading out the words forbidding
the sale of cattle, in possession or control, to any one
not a member "of the tribe to which the owners*of the
cattle belong." The fact that sales axe not prohibited
when made between members of the tribe, and the further
fact that even the prohibited sales are permitted when
made "with the consent in writing of the agent of the
tribe to which the possessor or owner of the cattle belongs," demonstrates clearly that the purpose of the prohibition was not merely to protect cattle to which the
United States had title as owner. This must be unless
it be assumed that although the object of 'the legislation
was to protect, the title of the United States, the right
to violate that title was freely permitted. if only the wrong
was accomplished by agreement of two or more Indians,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.'
Opinion of the Court.

228 U. S.

or was consented to by an Indian agent. And the right
which the statute thus recognizes in the members of a
tribe on the reservation to freely sell, among themselves,
cattle, even although they may have been in possession
or control as the result of a purchase made by the United
States, joined with the authority conferred upon the Indian agent, not only adds to the certainty of the plain
meaning of the text, but demonstrates the intent of the act,
that is, the public purpose of protecting the Indians on
the reservation- and of keeping thereon cattle purchased
by the United States. As suggested in argument by the
Government, we think this continuing public purpose
is cogently illustrated by the acts of May 1, 1888, c. 213,
25 Stat. 113, 114, and of June 10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat.
321, 355, in both of which cattle bought for Indian use
from the proceeds of the price of land ceded by the Indians
were subjected to a prohibition against sale like that
embodied in the statute under consideration. Nor do
we think there is force in the suggestion made on the other
hand that the expression of the prohibition in the particular cases referred to must be taken as indicating that it
was deemed that the general prohibition of the statute
here involved did not apply to cattle bought under such
circumstances, otherwise the enactment of the special
prohibition was unnecessary. We say this since the contention disregards the fact that in the two cases referred to the special legislation added to the restrictions
contained in the general law by subjecting the cattle in
the particular cases dealt with, not only to a prohibition
against sale, but also against exchange or slaughter of
such cattle, an extension of. the prohibition of the general
law which presumably experience had demonstrated to
be essential to the efficient execution of the public purpose which that law, as also the special provisions, were
intended to accomplish.
Reversed.

