OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank. 240 U. S.

FARMERS' & MECHANICS' NATIONAL BANK OF

PHILADELPHIA v. RIDGE AVENUE BANK.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 291.

Argued March 15, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Under subsection f of § 5 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, and after
reviewing conflicting authorities in regard to its construction, held
that when a partnership as such is insolvent and when each individual member is also insolvent, and when the only fund for distribution
is produced by the individual estate of one member, the individual
creditors of that member are entitled to priority in the distribution
of the fund.
THE facts,

which involve the construction of the provi-

sions of § 5 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, relative to the
individual assets of a member of a bankrupt partnership
and who are entitled to priority in sharing therein, are
stated in the opinion.
MXr. J. Frank Staley for Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank:
Distribution must be made in strict compliance with
clause "f,'.' that is, the creditors of the individual partners
are entitled to priority in the distribution of such partner's
individual estate. The existence or non-existence of firm
assets does not permit or admit of exception to this positive rule. This court has so ruled when it practically
refused to review the decisions of the appellate courts
in the-Second and Fourth Circuits, in the cases of MacNabb v. Bank vf LeRoy, 133 Fed. Rep. 912; S. C., 198
U. S. 583; and Euclid National Bank v. Union Trust Co.,
149 Fed. Rep. 975; S. C., 205 U. S. 547.
Further this court has recognized the rule of distribu-

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE. BANK.
240 U. S.

499

Argument for Ridge Avenue Bank.

tion as above stated to be the established rule and has
denied that any exception to the general rule, known as
the English exception, exists. Murrill v. Neill, 8 How. 414.
The decided weight of 'authority requires distribution
to be so made, in strict compliance with clause "f"; the
'non-existence of firm assets for distribution does not
create an exception to the general rule. 'Three Circuit
Courts of Appe~als and four District Courts of other
circuits have so ruled. The only decisions to the contrary
under the act of 1898, are Conrader v. Cohen, 121 Fed.
Rep. 801, and In re Green, 116 Fed. Rep. 118 (D. C., Iowa),
but the facts'in each of these cases were unusual and the
decisions based upon such unusual facts.
Mr. Frank R. Savidge for Ridge Avenue Bank:
lhe equitable principle, commonly called an exception
to the general rule, that firm creditors share equally with
separate creditors of. the partners in individual assets,
where there-are no firm assets and no living solvent partper, is supported by the best authority,
Lindley on Partnership (8th ed.), p. 811, note, 855;
Zilmore on Partnership, p. 438-9; Parsons on Partnership (2d ed.), p. 500; Collyer on Partnership (6th ed.),
p. 1459; Storey on Partnership (7th ed.), § 380; see also
Loveland on Bankruptcy (1912), § 283; Bispham's Equity
(9th ed.), § 517.'
In're Janes, 133 Fed. Rep. 912; Euclid, Nat. Bank v.
Union Trust Co., 149,Fed. Rep. 975;. Millstv. Fisher& Co.,
159 Fed. Rep. 897, and other cases cited by appellant
lose sight of the intqnt and purpose of the act, and have
adopted the narrow view that as the act contains no
express provision as to 'the manner of distribution -to be
followed in the absence of firm property, the application
of the principle, more than -a century old, of permitting
firm creditors in such event to participate equally with
separate creditors in separate assets would be judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Ridge Avenue Bank.

240 U. S.

legislation, but in this respect the English courts universally apply the exception, where there is no firm estate
and no solvent living partner. Lindley on Partnership
(8th ed.),'p. 855; Re Carpenter,'7Morrell Bankr. Cas. 270;
Ex parte Taitt,. 16 Vesey, Jr., 193. And see also In re
Collier, Fed. Cases, No. 3002; Conraderv. Cohen, 121 Fed.
Rep. 801.
The term now used in the acts, means the fund remaining after payment of expenses of administering the estate
in bankruptcy; in other words, assets distributable to
creditors. In re Litchfield, 5 Fed. Rep. 47; In re McEwen,
Fed. Cas. No. 8783; see also Gilmore on Partnership, p. 440.
Firm creditors inder the act of 1867 were allowed to
participate in separate assets where there was no partnership fund for distribution, and this, regardless of whether
the partnership was bankrupt or not. This method of
distribution tended to produce the equality which it was
the manifest purpose of the act to secure. In re Jewett,
Fed. Cas. No. 7304; In re Knight, Fed. Cas. No. 7880;
In re gowning, Fed. Cas. No. 4044; In re Rice, Fed. Cas.
No. 11750; In' re' McEwen, Fed. Cas. No. 8783; In re.
Collier, Fed. Cas. No. 3002; In re Green, 116 Fed, Rep.
118.4
No decision of the Supreme Court, either in equity or
in bankruptcy, has been found, deciding the question as
here raised, based on facts identical with or similar to
those in this case.
Since the opinion of Justice Daniel in the court below
was rendered, the majority of the Federal court, under
the Bankruptcy Act of 1867, and those which it is submitted have given the act of 1898 the proper equitable'
construction, have supported the exception, and it is
significant that the majority of the States of the Union
sustain the exception in distributing insolvent partner-ship and individual estates in equity. Among the States
allowing it are Alabama (Smith v. Mallory, 24 Alabama,

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE., BANK.
240 U. S.

501

Opinion of the Court.

628); New Jersey (Davis v. Howell, 33 N. J. Eq. 72);
Missouri (Level v. Ferris, 24 Mo. Appj; 445; Hundley v.
Ferris, 103 Missouri, 78) Rhode Island (Cowell v. Bank,
16 R. .-288); Wisconsin (Thayer v. Humphrey, 91 Wisconsin, 276); Maine (Harrisv. Peabody, 73 Maine, 262);
Ohio (Rogers v. Meranda,7 Oh. St. 179).
The socalled exception is sustained' by reason and
equity. Gilmore on Partnership, p. 439; In re IKnight,
Fed. Gas. No. 7880.
The extreme injustice which the strict application of.
the rule, without the exception, may cause, is well stated
by the court. In re Green,-1l6Fed. Rep. 118.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WHITE ' delivered the opinion of

the court.
The essential facts stated in the certificate of the court
below are these: The firm of William Gray & Sons and,
its three partfiers, William J. Gray, Peter Gray and
Alexander J. Gray, were adjudged bankrupts. The same
person was appointed trustee:of the four estates. It resuited from charging 'separately against each estate the
mere necessary and unquestioned expenses of administration that there was nothing. whatever in the estate
either of the partnership, of that of Wilam J. Gray or
of.Peter'Gray,-indeed in the latter there was nothing to
defray the expenses of administration. As to the estateof Alexander J. Gray, after charging the expenses of administration there remained $1,597.26. Creditors. of the
firm proved their debts against it, the Ridge Avenue
Bank of Philadelphia being among the nuniber, while
only. one creditor, the Farmers' & Mechanics' National
Bank of Philadelphia, proved a debt against the individual estate of Alexander J.,-Gray, that debt exceeding
the -total sum of the estate.' No creditor proved against
the, individual estate Of William J. Gray or that 'of Peter

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Gray. Under these conditions the dispute which arose
was whether the estate of Alexander J. Gray was to go
wholly to the Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank,'
the individual creditor, or was to be proportionately
applied to the individual and firmcreditors because of the
absence of any firm estate for distribution. The District
Court directed the fund to be distributed between the
Farmers' & Mechanics' National Bank, the creditor of
the individual estate, and the creditors of the firm, and
'the. question of law which the court below propounds
to enable it to review this action of the District Court, is
as follows:
"When a partnership as such is insolvent and when
each individual member is algo insolvent, and when the
only fund for distribution is produced by the individual
estate of one member, are the individual creditors of such
member entitled to priority in the distribution of the
fund?"
The solution of this question primarily depends upon
an interpretation of subsection f of § 5 of the Bankruptcy
'Act of 1898, and secondarily upon a consideration of all
the pertinent subsections of the section, indeed, of all
the relevant provisions of the context of the. act. Subsection f is as follows:
"f. The net proceeds of the partnership property shall
be appropriated to ,the payment of the partnership debts,
and the net proceeds of the individual estate of each
partner to the payment of his individual debts. Should
ahy surplus remain of the property of any partner after
paying his individual debts, such surplus shall be added to
the partnership assets and be applied to the payment
of th6 partnership debts. Should any surplus. of the
partnership property remain after paying the partnership
debts, such surplus 'shall be added to the assets of the
individual partners in the proportion of their respective
interests in the. partnership."

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE. BANK.
240 U. S.

503

Opinion of the Court.

Let us first sift the respective contentions so as to reach
the ultimate- proposition required to be decided. In the
first place, in favor of the right of the creditor of the individual partner to be paid, under the facts stated, out of
the individual estate to the entire exclusion if necessary
of the creditors of the partnership estate, it is urged that
such result is so unambiguously commanded by the rule of
distribution established by the text of subsection f that
there is no room for construction but the simple duty
arises to enforce the text, as to do otherwise would amount
to judicial legislation. It is undoubted that this, proposition is supported by largely the greater weight of opinion
of the courts of the United States in enforcing subsection f.
In re Wilcox, 94 Fed. Rep. 84 (1899); In re Mills, 95 Fed.
Rep. 269 (1899); In re Daniels, 110 Fed. Rep. 745 (1901);
In re Janes, 133 Fed. Rep.. 912, 67 C. C. A. 216 (1904),
reversing 128 Fed. Rep. 527; In re Henderson, 142 Fed.
Rep. 588 (1906); Euclid National Bank v. Union Trust
Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 975, 79 C. C. A. 485 (1906), affirming
In re Henderson, supra;Mills v. Fisher,.159 Fed. Rep. 897,
87 C. C. A. 77 (1908); In re Hull, 224 Fed. Rep. 796
(1915).
On the other hand, to refute the proposition and to
avoid the effect of the authorities sustaining it just referred
to three contentions are relied upon.. (a) It is said the
absence of ambiguity in the general rule as stated in subsection f is conceded and the soundness of the authorities
cited recognizing that fact is not disputed, but these concessions, it is declared, are negligible, since the fact that
there were no partnership assets and no solvent partner
causes this case to be an exception to the rule expressed in
subsection f and hence not governed by it and therefore
makes it clear that 'the authorities cited are inapposite
because they mistakenly applied the general rule to an
exceptional case which that rule did not govern. (b) That
this is demonstrated first by the fact that the general rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

was as unambiguously expressed in the previous bankruptcy acts (§ 14 of the act of 1841 and § 3Q of the act of
1867) and yet under those acts the exception stated,
which unquestionably governed in bankruptcy in England
where the general rule was the same, was also held to be
controlling by judicial decisions in this country. This
being true, the argument insists the inference is that
Congress in adopting the act of 1898 without any expression excluding the continued operation of the exception
which prevailed under the previous acts, must be considered as having impliedly recognized the continued force
of that exception, that is, must be held to have substantially made that exception a part of the rule established
under the act of 1898. And this view it is insisted is expressly sustained by the following decided cases under the
act of 1898: In re Green, 116 Fed. Rep. 118 (1902); In re
Conrader, 118 Fed. Rep. 676 (1902); Conrader v. Cohen,
121 Fed. Rep. 801, 58 C. C. A. 249 (1903), affirming In re
Conrader, supra; In re Janes, 128 Fed. Rep. 527 (1904),
reversed in 133 Fed. Rep. 912, 67 C. C. A. 216; and by the
present case, In re Gray, 208 Fed. Rep. 959 (1913), and is
in reason supportedby the adjudged cases which upheld
the asserted exception under the prior acts.
(c) That even if this be held to be not the case, as there
is nothing in the act of 1898 repiidiating the application
and existence of the exception which prevailed under the
previous acts, therefore as a question of original investigation that exception should be held to be equally applicable
and controlling under the act now in force as it was under
the previous bankruptcy acts, since the general rule was
as clearly stated in those acts as it.is in this.
A twofold reply is made to these contentions: First,
although admitting that the alleged exception prevailed
in England, it is denied that it was authoritatively recognized in this country under the previous acts, and second,
by insisting that even if it was, it is not applicable under

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE. BANK.
240 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1898 because the terms of that act make manifest that it was drawn for the purpose of preventing the
method of distribution provided in subsection f from being
subject to the exception relied upon.
As we are of opinion that it is to be conceded that if
under the prior acts it was settled authoritatively and conclusively that the exception relied upon obtained and was
fully recognized in practice, it would follow that the enactment of the same general rule without anything indicating
a departure from the exception would justify the conclusion that it was the legislative intent to continue the exception, it results that in order to answer the question
propounded the whole case comes to two inquiries: Was
there such an authoritative exception to the general rule
under the prior laws, and if not was the continued existence of such exception compatible with the rule of distribution established by subsection f of the present act as
considered in the light of the context of § 5 of which it
forms a part and of the scope and operation of the act of
1898?
1. Undoubtedly in England with the development of
the general rule for the distribution of partnership and
individual estates in bankruptcy as now formulated in
subsection f of the present Bankruptcy Act, there also
was evolved in practice the so-called exception here relied
upon which was applicable in cases where there was no
partnership estate to distribute and no solvent partner.
We content ourselves with this statement and do not
refer to the adjudged cases in England establishing the
rule and those from which the alleged exception came to
be evolved since they were quite fully referred to in Murrill
v. Neill, 8 How. 413, and will all be found stated in the
fullest degree in the opinion of Lowell, Judge, in In re
Wilcox, 94 Fed. Rep. 84. It is also true that this asserted
exception came to be recognized and applied in adjudged
cases in this country under the prior bankruptcy acts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The cases on this subject again are not referred to because
they will also be found stated in the opinion in the Wilcox
Case. But while this is true, we think there is no ground
for saying that the asserted exception had become so
authoritatively. established prior to the adoption of the
present law as to cause it to be in effect a part of the rule,
since on the contrary, as will be seen by the references
already made, its applicability was constantly disputed
and its enforcement challenged. Nothing more is required
to demonstrate this statement than a recurrence to Murrill
v. Neill, supra, since in the opinion in that case after considering the general rule of distribution as now stated in

subsection f and the alleged exception here under review,
it was said: "It may be proper in this place to mention the
two departures permitted by the Court of Chancery in
England from the general rule pursued by that court,
which departures were adverted to in a previous part f

this opinion." After then stating the first exception, the
one now in question was referred to as follows: "The
second is that in which there are no joint effects at all.
In this last instance it is said that the joint creditors may
come in for dividends pari passu on the separate effects;
though if there be joint effects, though of the smallest
possible amount, this privilege would not be allowed.
These exceptions it seems difficult to reconcile with the
reason or equity on which the general rule is founded;
they are but exceptions, however, and cannot impair that
rule. They do not, for aught we have seen, appear to have
been recognized by the courts of this country." p. 427.
2. Although the alleged exception was. therefore clearly
not so authoritatively established as to cause it to become
a part of the rule by the enactment of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898, it yet remains to consider whether its existence
is compatible with that act, that is, whether to permit it
would be in accord with the rights which the act gave and
the duty which it imposed to enforce them. In the first

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE. BANK.
240 U. S.

507

Opinion of the Court.

place it is to be observed that the act of 1898 in the opening subsections of § 5 confers the power on courts of bankruptcy to adjudge a partnership a bankrupt and to administer the partnership estate so far as possible as any
other estate, an authority not conferred by the previous
Bankruptcy Acts., In the second place, subsection f
establishing the rule, of distribution is immediately followed by subsection g which provides as follows:
"The Court may permit the proof of the claim of the
partnership estate against the individual estates, and
vice versa, and may marshal the assets of the partnership
estate and individual estates so as to prevent preferences
and secure the equitable distribution of the property of
the several estates."
The legislative -mind must therefore have been immediately and directly concerned with the enforcement of the
rule of distribution expressed in subsection f, since that
subject was thus immediately considered and provided
for. And the significance of this provision and its effect
upon the continued existence of the supposed authority
to depart from the rule expressly provided for by permitting the alleged exception now relied upon. will become
quite clear by the briefest possible outline of some of the
principal considerations involved in the origin and development of that assumed exception.
As pointed out in the opinion in Murrill v. Neill, supra,
and as fully shown by the review of the English cases so
carefully stated in In re Wilcox, supra, to which we again
refer, that origin and development was this: It came to
pass in England at an ancient date that with the establishment of the rule of distribution substantially as formulated, in subsection f, it was recognized that a creditor
of the joint or partnership estate would be permitted,
if no objection was made, to prove his claim in a bankruptcy proceeding against an individual partner. This
resulted from the fact that the power of the court over the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

separate or individual estate extended not only to the
individual assets, but to the share of the individual
bankrupt in the partnership assets, the court having power
upon application, by ordering separate accounts to be
kept, to protect the rights of all and secure a distribution
conformably to the settled rule. While there is obscurity
and consequent contrariety of opinion as to the reason
upon which it was placed, it no doubt came to pass in a
further state of evolution that both joint and separate
creditors were allowed to prove their claims in bankruptcy
against the separate estate, the practice of protecting the
rights of each by an order requiring separate accounts
disappearing nd the creditors being relegated for the
accomplishment of that result to a bill in equity to enforce and secure the distribution as provided in the iule.
It is further certain that as in every case where an order
was made allowing the joint creditor to prove against the
separate estate of a partner such right would be frustrated
by chancery proceedings, it came to pass that joint creditors were only allowed to prove against the separate estate
upon condition that distribution would be made conformably with the general rule in every case where that course
could be compelled by chancery proceedings. As it came
further however to be appreciated that chancery could
not afford relief in a case where there was no joint estate
and no solvent partner, it resulted that in such a case the
limitation as to distribution was treated as not applicable
and therefore the alleged exception to the general rule
arose,-an exception which, as pointed out by this court
in Murrill v. Neill, supra, was but a failure to give effect
to the rule, not because of the absence of right of the creditors to enjoy its benefit, but alone because the judicial
power had at its command no. remedy which it could apply
to give effect to the legal right which undoubtedly existed.
When the origin and source of the so-called exception is
thus appreciated and the comprehensive delegation of

FARMERS' BANK v. RIDGE AVE. BANK.
240 U. S.

509

Opinion of the Court.

authority for the first time conferred by subsection g is
considered, it would seem to be fairly inferable that at
the very moment of the reixpression of the ancient rule
in subsection f in terms free from ambiguity the means
of preventing its frustration in the guise of an exception
or otherwise because of an assumed absence of judicial
remedy to enforce the rule was provided for. And this
being true, it of course results that no possible reason can
be found for refusing to give effect to the law by permitting
the successful operation of the so-called exception now
relied upon. In fact, irrespective of the considerations
derived from the origin of such assumed exception to
which we have referred, when the positive commands of
the statute are considered and the new power conferred
by the act as to partnership estates is borne in mind, we
see no escape from the conclusion that the powers conferred, by subsection g are coincident with the duties
which the act imposes and amply efficient to secure and
give effect to their performance. This, indeed, was the
view hitherto indicated in Miller v. Ntw Orleans Fertilizer
Co., 211 U. S. 496, where after quoting subsection f of
the act it was said:
"To enforce these provisions the act compels (subdiv. d) the keeping of separate accounts of the partnership
property and of the property belonging to the individual
partners; the payment (subdiv. e) of the bankrupt expenses as to ihe partnership and as to the individual property proportionately; and permits (subdiv. g) the proof of
the claim of the partnership estate against the individual
estate, and vice versa, and directs the marshaling of the assets of the partnership estate and the individual estates
'so as to prevent preferences and secure the equitable distribution of the property of the several estates."' p. 504.
It follows that the question propounded will be answered, Yes.
And it is so ordered.

