MALE v. ATCHISON &c. RY.
240 U. S.

.. 97

Arguinent for.Appellant.

MALE, TRUSTEE FOR CHAPIN, v. ATCHISON,
TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 220. Argued January 24, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Whether a subsequent decision between the same parties upon the
same cause of action, makes the questions involved in the earlier
decision moot involves the defense of the thing adjudged going to
the merits, and cannot be considered on a direct appeal under § 238,
Jud. Code, on which this court can (nly consider the question of the
jurisdiction of the court below.
So far as controversies in a case brought in the Federal court depend
alone upon the right to sue because of the district in which the parties
reside, they are personal and susceptible of being waived, and are
not intrinsically and necessarily Federal; but if They involve Federal
privileges not waived, they are Federal questions susceptible of being
brought to this court by direct appeal under § 238, Jud. Code.
The asserted right to a judgment on bonds of a corporation created by
act of Congress involves an inherently Federal question.
A corporation is entitled to be sued in the district of its residence; and,
without the consent of such corporation, the District Court of the
United States for another district has no jurisdiction of an action
involving an inherently Federal question.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction 'of this court
under § 238, Jud. Code, and of the District Court under
§ 51, Jud. Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William G. Cooke for appellant:
The provisions of § 37, Jud. Code, have no application
to a case where there was Federal jurisdiction before the
assignment.
Even where diversity of citizenship is created by an
assignment, the mere fact that the purpose was to make
the case one of Federal cognizance, is no evidence of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

impropriety or collusion as will justify a dismissal of the
complaint. Crawford v. Neal, 144 U. S. 585; South Dakota
v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286; O'Neil v. Walcott Co.,
174 Fed. Rep. 527. See also Water Co. v. Portage, 102
Fed. Rep. 771; Bolles v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 127 Fed.
Rep. 884; Stimson v. United Machine Co., 156 Fed. Rep.
298; Consolidated Rubber Co. v. Ferguson, 183 Fed. Rep.
756.
Plaintiff, as trustee, is the legal holder and owner of the
bonds, so that it is his citizenship and not that of the
beneficiary, which determines the State in which suit must
be brought. Cochrane v. Schell, 140 N. Y. 534; Gott v.
Cook, 7 Paige, 521; Gilman v. McArdle, 99 N. Y. 451.

The indenture reserves no power of revocation in the
grantor; but even if it had, that circumstance would not
have invalidated the trust or affected the trustee's title
or right of possession. Locke v. Farmers' L. & T. Co.,
140 N. Y. 135; Von Hesse v. MacKaye, 136 N. Y. 115.
The right of a trustee of an express trust to sue in his
own name, in the State of New York, is fixed by statute.
Code Civ. Pro., § 449.
A trustee may sue in the Federal court of the State
of which he is a citizen, without reference to the place of

the beneficiary's citizenship. Dodge v. Tulleys, 144 U. S.
451; Johnson v. St. Louis, 172 Fed. Rep. 31; New Orleans v.
Gaines, 138 U. S.606.
Mr. Walker D. Hines for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
On this direct appeal a reversal is sought of a decree
below which dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction.
There is a motion to dismiss on the ground that "the
questions involved upon this appeal are moot ques-

MALE v. ATCHISON &c. RY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions . . . for the reason that subsequent to the
dismissal of the bill herein by the lower court the appellant
as plaintiff instituted in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, County of New York, an action upon the
same alleged cause of action against the same defendants
and that such action in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York was heard and determined and that a final
judgment upon the merits therein was _xendered dismissing the complaint filed in said action as against this
appellee." But as our power to review is limited to the
question of jurisdiction alone and as the ground of the
motion obviously involves the defense of "the thing adjudged," going to the merits, the motion to dismiss is
overruled and we come to consider the question of the
jurisdiction of the court below, that is, whether as a Federal court it had power to entertain the cause. Louisville
Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U' S.225, 233; Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175; Farrugiav. Phila. &
Read. Ry., 233 U. S.352.
The bill alleged that the complainant, Male, who sued
as the trustee of Gilbert W. Chapin, was a citizen of the'
State of New York and an inhabitant and resident of the
Southern District thereof. The defendants were the
Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation
created by an act of Congress, the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Railroad Company, a corporation organized
under an act of the legislature of the territory of Kansas,
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Kansas, and the Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Massachusetts. We do not stop to summarize'the averments of the bill in order to make clear the nature of the
relief sought because we accept as adequate for the purpose of the question before us the statement made on
that subject in the printed argument filed on behalf of -

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

the appellant as follows: "The relief prayed for is judgment for $120,000 and interest upon certain income bonds
issued by the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company on
the 1st day of October, 1880, and maturing October 1st,
1910, and for an adjudication that The Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Railway Company (the present appellee) is
liable in equity for the amount of such judgment by reason
of the matters set forth in the bill of complaint." As
further stated in the argument for the appellant, the bill
alleged that the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company
"is practically out of existence and has not been nor can
it be served with process" and that the Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Railroad Company and the Boston Safe
Deposit & Trust Company were not served with process
and are not deemed to be necessary parties to the cause
and may be put out of view. The Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Railway Company, the only other defendant
(the appellee) was served through one of its officers in
the City of New York. It thereupon appeared specially
and "for the single and sole purpose of making a motion
to set aside the service of the subpoena and dismiss the
bill of complaint as to it for want of jurisdiction over
the person of said defendant." And subsequently it
moved to dismiss on two grounds: 1. That as its residence
was in Kansas, it could not be sued outside of the district
of which it was a resident without its.consent, and that
as Male, the complainant, was only colorably joined as a
complainant, the real party being Chapin for whom Male
assumed to act as trustee and who was a citizen and resident of Connecticut, there was no jurisdiction over the
cause as the suit was brought in the district of the residence
of neither of the real parties; and, 2, that as the complainant sought to enforce a liability on the bonds of the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created
by an act of Congress, involving an inherently Federal
question, there was no jurisdiction in the court over the

MALE v. ATCHISON &c. RY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant because under such circumstances it was entitled to be sued in the court of the district of its residence
and could not without its consent be impleaded in the
district of the residence of the plaintiff even if Male was
treated as the real plaintiff and entitled otherwise to sue
in the Southern District of New York. As stated in the
certificate of the court below, the judgment of dismissal
for want of jurisdiction was based upon both of the
grounds, that is, the want of authority to sue in the
Southern District of New York because that was the
district of the residence of neither of the parties and because owing to the Federal question the defendant was
entitled to be sued in the district of its residence.
It Js not disputable that in so far as the contentions as
to jurisdiction depended alone upon the right to sue because of the district in which the parties resided, they
did not present questions of inherent Federal jurisdiction.
We say this because controversies as to such subjects
concern a personal privilege susceptible of being waived,
which would not be the case if they involved contentions
which were intrinsically and necessarily Federal. St.
Louis &c. Ry. v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127; Ex parte Wisner,
203 U. S. 449; In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490; Western Loan
Co. v. Butte & Boston Mining Co., 210 U. S. 368. But

while this is the case it is yet also true that questions of
jurisdiction depending upon controversies as to the district of residence where the statutory rights in that regard
have not been waived, when decided below, are questions
of Federal jurisdiction susceptible of being brought here
by direct appeal under the provisions of §238 of the Judicial Code. Davidson Marble Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S. 10;
United States v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199.
Our power to review thus being settled, the only question is, Did the court err in holding that as a Federal court
within the meaning of the statute it had no authority
under the circumstances to entertain the cause? In

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

solving this issue, without expressing any opinion as to
the want of jurisdiction based upon the contention that
Male the complainant had no real but only a colorable
and fictitious interest and hence that the suit was brought
neither in the district of the residence of the complainant
nor that of the defendant, and confining our attention to
the ruling that there was a want of power to entertain
the cause in any other than the district of the residence
of the defendant, because of the inherently Federal
question presented, we think that the refusal to take jurisdiction was clearly right and should be affirmed. Undoubtedly the asserted right to a judgment on the-bonds of the
Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created by an act of Congress, involved an inherently Federal
question. Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738;
Wash. & Idaho R. R. v. Coeur d'Alene Ry., 160 U. S. 77;
Matter of Dunn, 212 U. S. 374; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Hill,

237 U. S. 208. This being true, it is also indisputable
that the defendant was entitled to be sued in the district
of its residence and was not without its consent liable to
be sued within the district of the residence of the complainant. Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line, 215 U. S.
501; Judicial Code, § 51.
As it follows that no error was committed by the court
below in holding that it was without power to exercise
jurisdiction of the cause, its decree must be and it is
Affirmed.

