CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

305

Syllabus.

pete on equal terms with the other trunk lines. This
agreement, so far as appears, has not been submitted to
the Commission for its approval or disapproval, and we
intimate no opinion upon the question whether that body
ought to approve it.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the con-,

sideration or decision of this case.

CAROLINA GLASS COMPANY v. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
SAME v. MURRAY ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
STATE DISPENSARY COMMISSION OF. SOUTH
CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OFSOUTH
CAROLINA.

SAME v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

SAME v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

Nos. '12, 9, 205, 204.

Argued January 20, 1916.-Decided February 21,
1916."

A glass manufacturing company, which had furnished supplies to the
State and various county dispensaries of South Carolina, presented,
pursuant to statute providing therefor, its claim for balance due to,
the State Dispensary Commhission appointed to close up the business

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

and which found that the glass company had been overpaid on
previous settlements an amount exceeding its claim; and, after allowing the claim, found the glass company was indebted to the State
for a specified amount, and entered, an overjudgment therefor which
the State attempted to collect; the glass company appealed to the
state Supreme Court, and also instituted independent proceedings
in the state and Federal courts to restrain the members of the Commission from enforcing the overjudgment or from withdrawing funds
from the county dispensarie and to recover sums so withdrawn
against the individual members of the Commission. From the adverse judgment of the District Court, writs of error were taken from
this coutt and also from the Circuit Court of Appeals. All the cases
were considered together by this court, and held that;
The.State Dispensary Commission had jurisdiction to consider,
find and offset claims of the State against one claiming for supplies
furnished to the dispensaries; and, even though it had no power
to render an overjudgment, it did not deprive the claimant of its
property without dde process of law by making such offset.,
The state court did not err in holding that although the overjudgment was rendered without authority by the Commission,
that fact did not affect the power of the Commission to withdraw
funds from the county dispensaries as they were state funds and
subject to its control.
The glass company, as creditor of the State, could not assert
rights against the withdrawal by state officers of funds of the State
under their control in regard to which the State had not consented
to be sued; and the withdrawal in this case did not amount to the
impairment of contract obligations within the meaning of ยง 10,
Art. I, of the Federal Constitution.
The funds of the State Dispensary of South Carolina involved
in these actions were funds of the State (Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151) and the suit against members of the
State Dispensary Commission was in effect a suit against the State

and could not be maintained in the District Court of the United
States.
Where there are no allegations of diverse citizenship and the
jurisdiction of the Federal court is invoked solely on constitutional
grounds, the writ of error issues direct from this Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals is without jurisdiction to review.
87 S. Car. 270, 285, affirmed.
197 Fed. Rep. 392, affirmed.
Writ of error to review 206 Fed. Rep. 635, dismissed.

CAROLINA GLASS CO. Iv. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

307

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Dispensary Laws of South Carolina and rights of one claiming
to have furnished supplies to the dispensaries, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Lyles,with whom Mr. David W. Robinson and Mr. Jo-Berry S. Lyles were on the brief, for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. Benjamin Lindsey Abney, with whom Mr. Thomas
H. Peeples was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
These suits grew out of the legislation by which South
Carolina sought to control traffic in liquors. They involve
closely related matters, were heard together, and it will
be convenient likewise to dispose of them. In Scott v.
Donald, 165 U. S. 58; Vance v. Vander.cook, 170 U. S. 438,
and Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151, the
history and general purposes of the legislation are considered'.
By act of 1892 the General Assembly created a State
Board of Control, with power to supervise the traffic; also
provided for a State Commissioner charged with the duty
of purchasing and distributing liquors, through local
officers known as dispensers.
The statute of 1896 directed election, by the General
Assembly, of the Board of Control and gave it power to
make purchases and to appoint a Commissioner who
should supply local dispensers selected by and under
direction of County Boards. By an amending act of 1900
the Board then existing was abolished; a Board of Directors of the State Dispensary was created, with power to
prescribe rules and regulations to govern dispensaries,

OCTOBER TERM,. 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

2,t0 U. S.

both State and County; and provision was made for the
election of a Dispensary Commissioner. The new Board
was required to purchase liquor for lawful use within the
State; and general management and control of the State
Dispensary was entrusted to the Commissioner.
A legislative committee was appointed in 1905 to investigate the State Dispensary. In 1907 the statute of
1896 was repealed; control through a state board was
abolished and county boards substituted, clothed with
authority to purchase "in the name of this State" all
liquors to be sold within their several counties, "Provided,
That the.State shall not be liable upon any contract for the
purchase thereof beyond actual assets of the Dispensary
for which the purchase is made." At the same time another act created a State Dispensary Commission of five,
gave it control of all funds, assets and property other than
real estate of the State Dispensary, required it to investigate all facts concerning outstanding claims against the
State Dispensary and, thereafter, to pay all just liabilities
from dispensary assets which might come into its hands.
This second act of 1907 was amended in 1908, and the
Commission given "full power to pass upon, fix and determine all claims against the State growing out of dealings
with the Dispensary; and to pay for the State any and all
just claims, which have been submitted to and determined
by it, and no other, out of the assets of the Dispensary
which have been or may hereafter be collected by said
Dispensary Commission: Provided, That each and every
person, firm or corporation, presenting a claim or claims to
said Commission, shall have the right to appeal to the
Supreme Court, as in cases at law."
By act of February 23, 1910, findings of the State Dispensary Commission were declared to be final; any sum
ascertained to be due the State was required to be de" ducted from whatever a county dispensary might owe
such debtor; and authority was given the Commission to

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

command any county dispensary so indebted to turn over
to it an equivalent amount.of money. Notices of claims
in favor of the State, creation of liens to secure the same,
and enforcement of their payment were also provided for.
NUMBER

12.

The history and disposition of this cause in the state
tribunals sufficiently appear from parts of the opinion by
the Supreme Court (87 S. Car. 270) quoted below, p. 279:
"The investigations of the committee [appointed 1905]
resulted in an act, passed in 1907, authorizing the appointment of a commission, to be known as the State
Dispensary Commission, whose duty it was to close out
the entire business and property of the State Dispensary,
collect all debts due, and pay 'all just liabilities' of the
State growing out of said business. The Commission was
given 'full power and authority to investigate the past
conduct of the affairs of the dispensary.' It was also
clothed with all the power and authority conferred upon
the Committee, which had been appointed under the
resolution above referred to. 25 Stat. [So. Car.] 835.
The act of 1907 was amended in 1908 so as to give the
Commission 'full power to pass upon, fix and determine
all claims against the State growing out of dealings with
the dispensary; and to pay for the State any and all just
claims which have been submitted to and determined
by it, and no other.' 25 Stat. 1289.
"Appellant presented to the Commission a claim for
$23,013.75 as the balance due it by the State for bottles
and demijohns furnished to the dispensary under contracts made withthe board of directors from and including
April, 1906, until the business was closed out by the Commission. Appellant had also' furnished the dispensary
practically all the bottles and demijohns used since about
December, 1902; but all accounts prior to April, 1906,
had been settled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

"Upon the filing of this claim, the Commission went
into an investigation of all. past dealings of 'appellant with
the dispensary; and, after hearing a great deal of testimony and argument thereon, rendered its decision, dated
Nov. 17,1909, which will be set out in the report of the case.
"The conclusion and finding of the Commission was
that, in pursuance of a conspiracy between some of the
directors of the dispensary and some of appellant's officers
or agents to defraud the State whereby legitimate competition *was destroyed, appellant had a monopoly of
the business of furnishing glass to the dispensary from the
date of its beginning business, in 1902, until April, 1906;
and that the prices paid it for glass during that period
exceeded the fair market value thereof by $51,432.99.
Therefore, allowing appellant's claim of $23,013.75, the
Commission found that appellant was indebted to the
State in the sum of $28,419.24, the difference between
the amount of its claim and the sum it had fraudulently
collected from the State.
"From that decision, this appeal was taken, under the
provisions of the statute, giving every claimant the right
of appeal to the Supreme Court,- 'as in cases at law.'
Appellant concedes that the jurisdiction of this court is
limited in such cases to a review of alleged errors of
law. . . .
"The next contention of appellant is that the Commission is not a court, but a special tribunal of limited
power, and that it exceeded its authority in undertaking
to fix and determine appellant's liability to the State,
and then set off its claim against the liability so fixed.
It is conceded that the Commission is not a court, though
its duties necessarily involve, to some extent, the exercise
of judicial functions, as is always the case where judgment
and discretion are to be exercised. It was created under
Section 2 of Article 17 of the constitution, which provides

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

311

Opinion of the Court.

that 'the general assembly may direct by law in what
manner claims against the State may be established and
adjusted.'
"The question, therefore, whether the Commission
had authority to entertain a 'set-off' or 'counter claim'
in favor of the State against a claimant, in the technical
sense in which those terms are used in legal proceedings
is not germane or material to the present inquiry. To
what purpose should the Commission investigate, unless
it announced the result of its investigation? We see no
error, therefore, in the Commission stating its findings
as the result of its investigation.
"The findings of the Commission, however, are controlling only in its determination of the non-liability of
the State upon appellant's claim. They have not the
force or effect of a judgment, concluding appellant in
any other proceeding-such, for instance, as the State
might institute in the proper court to recover the amount
found by the Commission to be due it by appellant.
"The judgment of this court is that the decision of the
Commission upon plaintiff's claim against the State be
affirmed, . .
Manifestly, we think, the Supreme Court affirmed the
Commission's action only in so far as it declined to approve the glass company's claim-there was no final
determination of the State's right to recover over against
the company.
Error is assigned concerning supposed Federal questions
upon the theory that there has been "in practical effect
an adjudication, of the validity of the ,alleged claim of the
State arising out of the ended transactions prior to April,
1906, and a satisfaction of such a judgment by the confiscation of plaintiff in error's property; that is, its claim
against the State for goods furnished since 1906."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

This theory is entirely out of harmony with the Supreme
Court's opinion, which holds the validity of possible demands against the glass company remains wholly undetermined and that, acting Within its plain powers, the
State had only refused to recognize and discharge a claim
against itself. The argument of counsel proceeds upon a
fundamental misconception. We find no error in the
judgment below, and -it must be affirmed.
NUMBER 9.

By this original proceeding begun in the Supreme Court
of South Carolina, March 4, 1910, the Carolina Glass
Company sought to restrain any effort to collect the socalled overjudgment for $28,419.24 pronounced by the Dispensary Commission under circumstances narrated supra
(cause No. 12); and also to prevent the Commission from
demanding or receiving sums of money alleged to be due
the company from certain county dispensaries or interfering with payment of such indebtedness.
Quotations from the opinion below (87 S. Car. 270, 285)
will adequately disclose the issues involved.
"These arise principally out of an act approved February 23, 1910, and what was done by the defendants under
the provisions of that act; which, it will be noted, was
passed subsequent to the decision of the Commission
upon the claim of the plaintiff. The provisions of thefirst
five sections of the act pertinent to this case are, in substance: That, in addition to the powers conferred by all
previous acts, the Dispensary Commission shall have
power to pass upon, fix and determine claims of the State
against any person, firm or corporation heretofore doing
business with the State Dispensary, and settle and receipt therefor; that the findings of the Commission under
its provisions shall be final, and, upon the finding by the
Commission that any person, firm or corporation is indebted to the State, the dispensary auditor and officials

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

313

Opinion of the Court.

having charge of the funds of any county dispensary
which may be indebted to such person, firm or corporation, shall pay to the Commission the amount so found
to be due the State, or so much thereof as the funds in
their hands due to such person, firm or corporation will
pay, and the receipt of the Commission shall be a sufficient
voucher therefor; that the Commission may, by its order,
stop the paying out of any funds of any county dispensary
by any officer having charge thereof. Sections 7 and 9
of the act are as follows: [They are copied in margin.] 1
"Within a few days after the approval of the act, to wit,
on February 26, 1910, the Commission, by its attorneys,
filed in the office of the clerk of the Court for Richland
county, in which county plaintiff owned real estate, a
notice, headed or entitled, The State v. CarolinaGlass Co.,
and signed by the Attorney General and other counsel
'SEC. 7. "The State Dispensary Commission is hereby empowered
to pass all orders and judgments and do any and all things necessary
to carry out the purposes of this act; and all judgments rendered by
them for any claim due the State shall be a liQn on the property of the
judgment debtor situated within this State, and a transcript of said
judgment shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the Court of Common
Pleas in each county where any property of such judgment debtor is
situated."
SEC. 9. "In all cases pending before the said State Dispensary,
Commission, upon any claim or claims against any person or persons
or any corporation or corporations owning any real estate in any
county in this State, the said Commission shall file in the office of the
clerk of court in each county where such real estate is situated a
notice of the pendency of such cases, and the said notice so filed shall
be full notice to all persons whomsoever ,claiming any title to or lien
upon such real estate acquired subsequent to the filing thereof, and the
debt found by'said Commission to be due the State shall have priority
:over the claims of all creditors, except creditors secured by mortgage
or judgment entered and recorded prior to the filing of such notice,
and-the said real estate, in the hands of any persofi or persons whomsoever, shall be liable for the payment of such debt so found to be due
the State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

representing the State. The notice was as follows: Notice
is hereby given to all whom it may concern, that the above
stated cause has been instituted, and is now pending before the State Dispensary Commission for the recovery
against the Carolina Glass Company of $29,000.00, the
amount which has been found to be due from the said defendant to the State of South Carolina owing to overcharges made by said defendant in selling goods to the
State Dispensary, and this notice is given in accordance
with the terms'of an act of the legislature passed in February, 1910, and duly approved by the Governor.' About
the same time, notice was served on the plaintiff, pursuant
to the provisions of the act, that the Commission would
proceed to pass upon, fix and determine the claim of the
State against the plaintiff on account, of the overcharges
growing out of its dealings with the dispensary. Notice
was also-served on the County Dispensary Board of Ricfiland county, requiring that board to pay to the Commission the amount due by said board to the plaintiff.
"Another feature of the case grows out of an agreement
alleged to have been (made between the attorneys for
the plaintiff and the attorney representing the State
with regard to payments for shipments of glass made by
plaintiff to the county dispensaries after November 20,
1909.
.
"Under the provisions of the Constitution (Art. VIII,
See. 11) and statutes (25 Stat. 463) the county dispensaries
are conducted 'under the authority and in the name of
the State.' Therefore, the officers in charge of them are
agents of the State and the funds arising from the sale of
liquors through them are the funds of the State, and the
debts due for goods sold to them are the debts of the State.
In exercising the poWers conferred upon it by the legislature, the Dispensary Commission is also the agent and
representative of the State, 'subject to no interference,

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

315

Opinion of the Court.

except that of the General Assembly itself,' and a suit
brought against it is, in effect, a suit against the State.
Stale v. Dispensary Commission, 79 S. Car. 316, 329,
60 S. E. Rep. 928. As the State cannot be sued without
its consent, no court has power to interfere with or direct
the disposition of the State's funds in the hands of its
agents, unless it appears that they are acting without
authority of law, or are refusing to recognize and obey the
law to the detriment of private rights. . . . In ordering the funds in the hands of the officers of the county dispensaries due to the plaintiff turned over to itself, the
Commission acted within the limits of its authority and
discretion conferred upon it by the legislature, and this
court has no power to interfere. From the foregoing, it
will be seen that it is unnecessary to inquire or decide
whether there was an agreement between the attorneys
for plaintiff and the attorneys for the State as to the collection of the amounts due plaintiff from the county dispensaries for shipments made prior to November 20th, or
what the agreement was, or whether it has been violated.
The Dispensary Commission is the sole arbiter of the
rights of the plaintiff, if it has any, with regard to that
matter.
"So long, therefore, as the action of the Commission was
confined to the investigation of all dealings, past and
present, with the dispensary, and the determination of the
just liabilities of the State growing out of them, it was, as
we have seen, based upon constitutional authority, and
was valid and binding. But we find no authority in the
Constitution for the legislature to provide by law how
claims of the State against others shall be established or
adjusted, except through the courts. We conclude, therefore, that in so far as the act of 1910 attempts to confer
upon the Commission power to pass final judgment-upon
the claim of the State against the plaintiff, it is unconstitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

tional, null and void. And, as the lien which the act
attempts to create is based upon the unauthorized act of
the Commission, it is likewise null and void."
Defendants were accordingly enjoined from asserting a
lien upon the company's property and the notice filed in
Richland County was directed to be cancelled; but the
Commission's power to remove funds from county dispensaries was upheld.
Plaintiff in error now maintains the so-called overjudgment of .November 17, 1909, was void; that by reason of
claims against them it had contract and property rights
in money held by-the county dispensaries; and that removal of funds therefrom by the State Dispensary Commission impaired contract obligations in violation of ยง 10,
Article I, Federal Constitution, and deprived it of property without due process of law.
It was distinctly adjudged by the Supreme Court that
'the Dispensary Commission was without power to pronounce the overjudgment; that it was invalid and could
not be enforced. In view of repeated holdings by that
court and our opinion in Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co.,
213 U. S. 151, it is clear that funds of county dispensaries
were state funds, and, as such, subject to control by the
Dispensary Conmission. Their removal, therefore, violated no right which the glass company could assert-the
State, had not-consented to be sued. The judgment of the
court below must be affirmed.
NUMBER

205.

The Carolina Glass Company instituted this proceeding
at law in the United States District Court, South Carolina,
December 13, 1911, to recover judgment against individual
members of the Dispensary Commission for sums of money
said to have been unlawfully withdrawn, by them from
county dispensaries which, held the same for plaintiff's
benefit. It is alleged that for supplies furnished partly be-.

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U.' S.

317

Opinion of the Court.

fore and partly after February 23, 1910, these county dispensaries became lawfully indebted to the company for
more than $19,000, and that the money in their keeping
was held in trust to pay such sum, and further:
"That the said defendants, undertaking to proceed
under section 6 of the Act entitled 'An Act to further provide for winding up the affairs of the State Dispensary,'
approved the 23d day of February 1910, [copied in margin] I'
as this plaintiff is informed and believes, demanded from
the County Dispensary Boards for the County of Clarendon, the County of Richland and the County of Georgetown, the sums of money alleged in paragraph six of this
complaint, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of
nineteen thousand and eighty-four and 38/100 dollars then
due to this plaintiff by said several County Dispensary
Boards, as alleged in said paragraph six, and unlawfully
and wrongfully received the said sums of money from said
several County Dispensary Boards, claiming that they
were entitled to tne same on account of the above mentioned illegal offset found by said State Dispensary Commission to be due by this plaintiff as aforesaid; which
action this plaintiff alleges was wholly without authority
of law, as the provisions of said section 6 of the Act of
February 23d, 1910,"were unconstitutional, null and void,
as constituting an effort, unwarrantably and without
authority, to confiscate the property of this plaintiff without due process of law, the provisions of sad section being
ISEC. 6. "In any and all cases where the State Dispensary Commission has heretofore found any anount due the State by any person,
firm or corporation on account of dealings with the State Dispensary,
the several County Dispensary Boards now existing, and all boards
and other officer or officers in charge of any money due any such
person, firm or corporation on account of any dealings with any and
all County Dispensaries heretofore existing, shall, upon demand, pay
'to the State Dispensary Commission a sufficient amount, or so much
thereof as may be on hand, to cover the amount so found to be due
the State."

,818

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

in violation of section 10 of Article I of the Constitution
of the United States, and also of the Fourteenth Amendment to -the Constitution of the United States; and, furthermnore, in violation of the express contract and agreement entered into by this plaintiff with the defendants
above named as above alleged."
Holding it in effect a suit against the State, the District Court dismissed the cause (197 Fed. Rep. 392); and
it is here upon direct writ of error. We are of opinion that'
the action of the court below was correct. And in view of
what has been said' above and our opinion in Murray v.
Wilson DistillingCo., further discussion of the questions involved would'not be profitable. The judgment is affirmed.
NUMBER 204.

This writ brings up a judgment rendered by the Circuit
Court'of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, affirming the same final
judgment of the District Court considered in No. '205,
supra. 206 Fed. Rep. 635. There is no allegation of diverse citizenship.and the trial court's jurisdiction was invoked solely upon the ground that the controversy inVolved application of the Federal Constitution.
In.,such circumstances the Circuit Court of Appeals-is
without jurisdiction to review. Union & Planters' Bank
v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73. Its judgment is accordingly
reversed and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss
the writ of error improperly .entertained.
Judgments in Nos. 12, 9 and 205, affirmed; judgment in
No. 204 reversed and remanded to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit with. directions to dismiss writ of errorfor want of jurisdiction.

