KANSAS CITY RY. v. McADOW.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

June 23, 1908, after much consideration, the Commission
refused to order carriers either to furnish flat cars equipped
in all respects for transporting lumber or grant allowances
for cost incurred by shippers in connection therewith. In
N. Y. Shippers' Ass'n v. N. Y. Central R. R., 30 I. C. C.
437 (1914), the regulations and practices of railroads in
Western New York with respect to car fittings used in
bulk transportation of grain and produce, were challenged. The shippers claimed, "it is the carrier's duty to
supply cars at all seasons of the year fully equipped for
the safe transportation of grain, potatoes, and other
produce in bulk without further fitting; or, that if a car
bc tendered the shipper which cannot safely be used for
such commodities, in view of their nature or of the condition of the weather, it is the carrier's duty to furnish,
or to pay for, all materials and labor necessary to render
the car reasonably safe." This was denied. The opinions
in these causes strikingly indicate the complicated administrative problem involved.
We find no error in the judgment below and it is
Affirmed.

KANSAS CITY WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
McADOW.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 127.

Submitted January 18, 1916.-Decided January 31, 1916.

If the declaration on which a case is tried brings it under the Employers'
Liability Act, the fact that the particular allegation showing that
plaintiff was engaged in interstate commerce appeared as an amendment does not raise. a Federal question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Actions of tort are transitory.
The law governing the situation in an action in a state court under the
Employers' Liability Act is iqually the law of the State whether
.derived from Congress or the state, legislature and must be noticed
by the court.
An electric railway from Leavenworth, Kansas, to Kansas City,
Kansas, with a traffic agreement with a street railway company
operating in Kansas City, Missouri, held to be a railroad within the
Act to Regulate Commerce. United States v. Balt. & Ohio S. W.
R. R., 226 U. S. 14. Omaha Street Ry. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 230
U. S. 324, distinguished.
The statute of Kansas is so similar to the Federal Employers' Liability
Act that the liability of the employer is not affected by the question
of which, governs the case, and it is under such circumstances unnecessary to determine which law applies.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict in
an action for personal injuries and the application of
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, are stated. in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Hutchings and Mr. McCabe Moore for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. John H. Atwood and Mr. Oscar S. Hill for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for personal injuries brought by the
defendant in error against the plaintiff in error in whose
employ he was. The original petition alleged that the
defendant operated a line of electric railway extending

from Leavenworth, Kansas, through Wolcott and Kansas
City in the same State into Kansas City, Missouri, that
the plaintiff was a motorman upon a car on the line and

was injured in Kansas by a collision due to the defendant's
negligence. An amendment was allowed alleging that the

KANSAS CITY RY. v. McADOW.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff was injured on a trip from Kansas City, Missouri,
to Leavenworth, with further details, and that the defendant's negligent acts were in violation of the act of
Congress controlling such matters when the partiles were
engaged in commerce among the States. The defendant
was a Kansas corporation having an electric railway from
Leavenworth into Kansas City, Kansas. It had a traffic
agreement with the Metropolitan Street Railway Company operating street railways in Kansas City, Missouri,
by which the latter was to receive the cars of the former
carrying passengers and freight and move them through
designated streets in Misgouri and back to Kansas; each
party to be liable for damage due to its negligence during
this part of the transit, and the fares and freight money
to be divided in certain proportions. By a later agreement
the route was modified and it was provided that the defendant should pay the trainmen's wages during the
movement'in Missouri but that they should be under the
exclusive control of the Metropolitan Company and as
between said companies, should in all respects be regarded
for the time being as its employ6s. There was evidence
that in fact at the time of the accident the only control
exercised by the Missouri Company was to put a conductor
upon the car to receive the fares, that while in Missouri
it received its orders from the Kansas side, and that the
Company was in the hands of receivers who seem not to
have recognized the contract. The plaintiff got a verdict
which was sustained. The errors assigned are, in substance, that the amendment expressly bringing the case
under the act of Congress ought not to have been allowed;
that the act does not apply to electric roads and that, if
it does, the defendant was not engaged in commerce
among the States, or at least was not if the contract
between the companies governed the movement of the
car.
As to the first it would be enough to say that if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

declaration on which the case was tried brought it under
the Act, the fact that it appeared as an amendment to
one that alleged the same facts with the exception of the
plaintiff's coming from beyond the State raises no question under the laws of the United States. Central Vermont

Ry, v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 513. Brinkmeier v. Mo. Pac.
Ry., 224 U. S. 268, 270. The state court sustained the
amendment on the ground of waiver, but if it had held it
allowable as a matter of course, no Federal right would
have been infringed. Wabash R. R. v. Hayes, 234 U. S.
86, 90. It is said that by the amendment it gave a jurisdiction to the Missouri court that otherwise it would not

have had under the Employers' Liability Act of April 5,
1910, c. 143; 36 Stat. 291. But actions of tort are transitory and the argument based on the act of 1910 would

have no application unless the defendant was engaged in
business governed by that act. The argument would be
that if so engaged then, under the statute, the interstate

road could not be sued in a state court unless it was doing
business in that State. We express no assent to it, but if
sound it would afford no ground for objecting to the

amendment; and no question of jurisdiction was raised.
The amendment introduced no fact inconsistent with
those first alleged and it was unnecessary when the facts
were stated to invoke the act of Congress in terms. The
law governing the situation is equally the law of the State
whether derived from Congress or the state legislature,
and must be noticed by the courts. Grand Trunk Western
Ry. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S. 42, 48. Mondou v. New York,
New Haven & HartfordR. R., 223 U. S. 1, 57.
The defendant's road appears to be of the class of the
Traction Company that was before the court in United
States v. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R., 226 U. S.
14, and that was excepted from the decision in Omaha
& Council Bluffs Street Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 230 U. S. 324, 337. Such roads have been held

GAST REALTY CO. v. SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO.
240 U. S.

55

Syllabus.

to be within the act of Congress. Spokane & I. E. R. R.
v. Campbell, 217 Fed. Rep. 518. See Act of June 18, 1910,
c. 309, ยง 12; 36 Stat. 539, 552. So again many cases have
intimated that the technical considerations by which the
defendant seeks to establish that it was not engaged in
commerce among the States are not final. Penna. R. R.
v. Clark Brothers Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456, 467. Satage
v. Jones, 225 U.. S. 501, 520. Swift v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 398. But these questions really are immaterial
here since the Kansas statute is so similar to that of the
United States that the liability of the defendant does not
appear to be affected by the question which of them
governed the case. In such circumstances it is unnecessary to decide which law applied. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. v. Gray, 237 U. S. 399.
Judgment affirmed.

GAST REALTY AND INVESTMENT COMPANY v.
SCHNEIDER GRANITE COMPANY.
ERROR TO TIJE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 211.

Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided January 31, 1916.

The legislature may create taxing districts to meet the expense of
local improvements without encountering the Fourteenth Amendment unless its action is palpably arbitrary or a plain abuse.
The law does not attempt an imaginary exactness or go beyond reasonable probabilities in establishing taxing districts.
A law establishing a taxing district under which there is no reasonable
presumption that substantial justice will be done, but under which
parties will probably be disproportionately taxed cannot stand as
constitutional against one actually so taxed.
The ordinance of St. Louis authorized by the charter of that city levying part of the cost of paving on property fronting on the street but

