OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

portunity to file the record, made up conformably to
the views which we have just stated, the time for filing
the record which was extended by this court on March 15
pending this application, will be now extended sixty
days from that date.
And it is so ordered.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
WILES, ADMINISTRATOR.

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
Nd 196.

Submitted January 26, 1916.--Decided March 20, 1916.

Where there is nothing to extenuate the negligence of the employ6, or
to confuse hia judgment, and his duty is as clear as its performnance
is easy, and he knows not only the imminent danger of the situation,
but also how it can be averted by complying with the'rules of the
employer, there is no justification for a comparison of negligences
on the part of the employer and employ6 or the apportioning of their
effect under the provision of the Employers' Liability Act. To excuse
such neglect on the part of an employ6 of an interstate carrier would
not only cast imnmeasurable liability on the carriers but remove security from those carried.
In such cases it is disputable whether the doctrine of res ipsa lQquitur
applies at all; and, in this case, held that the submission to the jury
of whether begligence of the carriers existed. as a deduction from the
fact that a draw-bar pulled out from causes not shown by the testimony, and the proportion of the carrier's negligence in causing the
death of an -employ6 wag, in view of the failure of the dmployd to
perform his duty and comply with the rules of the employer under
such circumstances, reversible error.
125 Minnesota, 348, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the valid-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WILES.

240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ity of a judgment in an action thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. E. C. Lindley and 'Mr. M. L. Countryman for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. R. Duxbury and Mr. Lyle Pettijohnfor defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
court.

delivered the opinion of the

Action for damages for the killing of one Dennis E.
Wiles, brought by the administrator of his estate, who is
also his father and next of kin. It was brought under the
Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908 (35 Stat. 65,
c. 149), as amended April 5, 1910 (36 Stat. 291, c. 143).
Wiles was a freight brakeman in the employ of the railway company in interstate commerce, the company being
an interstate common carrier.
There was a verdict for plaintiff in the sum of $650.
Upon motion of defendant the court, expressing the view
that Wiles' negligence was the proximate cause of the
accident which resulted in his death, rendered judgment
that, notwithstanding the verdict, plaintiff take nothing
by his action, that the same be dismissed, and that the
railway company recover of plaintiff $36.52 costs.
The judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of
the State and judgment ordered to be entered on the verdict.
The only issue is as to the negligence of the railway company and the contributory negligence of the deceased and
the causal relation, if either existed, to the death of the
deceased.
The determining factsof the case are as follows:
Deceased was a rear brakeman on a freight train of the
railway company proceeding easterly between Grotto and

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinionof the Court.

240 U. S.

Skykomish, Washington. After having passed a curve in
the road the train broke in two by the drawbar pulling
out of the sixth car from the engine, which caused the
train to stop instantly. It was run into shortly after (from
3 to 5 minutes, .it was testified) by a passenger train drawn
by two engines. The night was pretty dark and the
weather a little misty. At the place of collision the track
was obstructed by a very sharp curve and a bluff on the
right hand side for about five box car lengths and the
rear end of the freight train at that place could not be seen
more than five box car lengths away. On.the left hand
side of the engine, which is the fireman's side, the track
could not be seen more than a car length ahead because
that would be on the outside of the curve. The engineer.
of the passenger train did not know of the existence of the
freight train ahead and no negligence is attributed to him.
The deceased and the conductor of the freight train were
in the 'caboose and both were killed. What caused the
pulling out of the drawbar was not shown, nor was there
.proof that it was defective or that the company was negligent in the care or use of it.
The head brakeman of the freight train testified that
the train stopped immediately upon the pulling out of the
drawbar, that he descended from the train and hastened
back to the caboose for a chain and that he saw the headlight of *the passenger train as it came around the curve.
He further testified that it was Wiles' duty to have gone
back- to protect the rear end of his train at the time the
passenger train was due out of the station in the rear,
and that this applied whether the delayed inferior train
which was ahead was running or standing still; that it was
the duty of Wiles to have gone bAck a sufficient distance
to guarantee full protection to the rear of his train, and
that the engineer of the freight train, at the time the train
broke in two, signaled the rear brakeman to go back and
protect the rear end of his train. The same testimony as

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WILES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the duty of Wiles was given by another witness. It
appeared also from the testimony that the freight train
was losing time by slipping and that Wiles knew the time
that the passenger train was due to leave Grotto station
and he should have dropped off or dropped fusees on the
track to notify the engineer of the passenger train that the
freight was running slow. The fusees are of red and yellow
lights; the red means to stop for ten minutes, the yellow
means to bring the train under control and keep it under
control until the next station is reached.
The rules of the railway company were put in evidence
as follows:
"Rule 99. When a train stops or is delayed by any circumstance under which it may be overtaken by another
train, the flagman must go back immediately with stop
signals a sufficient distance to insure full protection.
When recalled he may return to his train, first placing two
torpedoes on the rail six rail lengths apart, or a lighted
fusee in the center of the track when conditions require."
"Rule 100. If the train should part while in motion
trainmen must, if possible, prevent damage to the detached portions. The signals prescribed by 13D and 15F
must be given."
13D is the lantern signal or hand signal, either one;
15F is the whistle signal. Rule 100 applied to what should
be done by the members of the train crew for the protection of the separated portions of the train itself. Rule 99
applied to what should be done for the protection of other
trains approaching.
The Supreme Court applied the rule of res ipsa loquitur
and justified a submission to the jury of the negligence of
the railway'company as a deduction from the pulling out
of the drawbar and the proportion of its causal relation to
the death of Wiles to the amount of negligence attributable
to him, and reversed the action of the trial court entering
judgment for the company notwithstanding the verdict.

;OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The application of the doctrine to cases like that at bar
is disputable. Patton v. Texas & PacificRy. Co., 179 U. S.
658; Looney v. Metropolitan R. R. Co., 200 U. S. 480, 486.
We, however, do not have to go farth'er thanto indicate
-the dispute. The case at bar is not solved by the doctrine.
There is no justification, for a comparison of negligences or
the apportioning of their effect. The pulling out of the
drawbar produced a condition which demanded an instant
performance of duty by Wiles, a duty not only' to himself but to others. The rules of the conimpany were devised
for such condition and provided for its emergency. Wiles
knew them and he was prompted to the performance of
the duty they enjoined (the circumstances would seem to
have needed no prompting) by signals from the engineer
when the- train stopped. He disregarded both. His fate
gives pause to blame, but we cannot help pointing out
that the tragedy of the collision might have been appalling.
He brought death to himself and to the conductor of his
train. His neglect might have extended the catastrophe
to the destruction- of passengers in the -colliding train.
How imperative his duty was is manifest. To excuse its
neglect in any way would cast immeasurable liability upon
the railroads and, what is of greater concern, remove
security from the lives of those who travel upon them;
and therefore all who are concerned with their operation,
however high or low in function, should have a full and an
anxious sense of responsibility.
In the present case there was nothing to extenuate Wiles'
negligence; there was nothing to confuse his judgment or
cause hesitation. His duty was as clear as its performance
was easy. He knew the danger of the situation and tiat
it was imminent; to avert it he had only to descend from
his train, run back a shortdistance, and give the signals
that the rules directed.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with' this opinion.

