OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

ILLINOIS SURETY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES
TO THE USE OF PEELER ET AL., TRADING
AS FAITH GRANITE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 176. Argued January 14, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Final settlement of a contractor's account within the meaning of the
Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as amended February 24,
1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, is not when the final payment is made, but
is the final administrative determination by the proper authority of
the amount due; in this case, held that a suit by a sub-contractor
against the surety commenced six months after date of such determination, but less than six months after payment was not prematurely brought, no action having been brought meanwhile by the
United States.
Where the action on the contractor's bond was brought within
the proper time, an amendment made after the expiration of such
time, which does not set up a new or different cause of action but
merely corrects a defective statement, may be allowed. Texas
Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157.
The contested liability of a surety on a contractor's bond is not to be
determined in equity; the action under the act of 1894 as amended
in 1905 is one at law.
If the surety does not contest, but pays into court the full amount of
liability, discharging all liability as provided by the statute, the
proceeding is simply one for distribution of a fund in court.

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. PEELER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Where a sub-contractor was not one of the original plaintiffs and there
was no intervention on its behalf, held that a judgment could not
be rendered in its favor more than a year after final settlement of
the contractor's claim; nor does the fact that one claiming, but
not proving such claim, to be its assignee was mad party plaintiff,
amount to a sufficient and timely filing of the c
t of such a subcontractor.
215 Fed. Rep. 334, modified and affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Materialmen's Acts, of 1894 and 1905, and the rights of subcontractors thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Bynum E. Hinton for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin E. Pierce and Mr. D. W. Robinson,
with whom Mr. John L. Rendleman was on the brief,
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by sub-contractors under
the Act of August 13, 1894 (c. 280, 28 Stat. 278), as
amended by the Act of February 24, 1905 (c. 778, 33
Stat. 811), in the name of the United States to recover
upon a contractor's bond. The contract was for the
construction of a post-office building in Aiken, South
Carolina (Act. of March 30, 1908, c. 228, 35 Stat. 526,
528), and the Illinois Surety Company (plaintiff in error)
was the surety. The summons and complaint were filed
on March 4, 1913. Motion to dismiss was made on
September 22, 1913, upon the ground that the complaint
did not allege that there had been a completion and final
settlement of the contract between the contractor and
the United States; or that there had been such completion and settlement more than six months, and within
one year, prior to the commencement of the action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Another ground for the motion was that the remedy
under the statute was in equity. The motion was denied,
the court permitting the complaint to be amended so
as to allege that the contract was completed in July, 1912;
that final settlement was made by the Treasury Department on August 21, 1912; and that no suit had been
brought by the United States against the contractor
and his surety within the six months' period. The defendant, reserving its objection to the order denying the
motion and allowing the amendment, answered. Jury
trial was waived by written stipulation and the case was
heard by the district judge who found, in substance,
the facts to be as follows:
That the building was completed, and on August 21,
1912, the Treasury Department "stated and determined
the final balance" to be paid the contractor under the
contract at.the sum of $3,999.01; that this "adjustment
and determination" was communicated to the contractor;
that on.August 26, 1912, a voucher of that date was prepared by the Department showing the balance, as above
stated, to which the contractor appended his signature
certifying the amount to be correct, and that on that
day there was a definite acceptance by the contractor
of the adjustment; that on September 11, 1912, a check
for the above-mentioned sum was made out by the disbursing clerk of the Department, payable to the order of
the contractor, who thereafter collected it; that upon
the request of the relator (the Faith Granite Company)
the Secretary of the Treasury, on January 16, 1913, furnished to it a certified copy of the contract and bond and
that on the sixth day of March, 1913, . . . the present
action was instituted by the filing . . . and by serv-

ice of summons and complaint on defendant Surety Company." It also appeared that no action had been instituted by the United States upon the bond within the
six months allowed by the statute.

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. PEELER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The district court gave judgment for amounts found
to be due to those for whose benefit the action was brought,
and to certain intervenors, and this judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 215 Fed. Rep.
334. The contentions presented are: (1) That the action
was instituted prematurely; (2) that the amendment of
the complaint was improperly allowed; (3) that there
was no right of action at law; and (4) that the court erred
in giving judgment for the Carolina Electrical Company,
one of the sub-contractors.
1. The statute provides, p. 812: "If no suit should
be brought by the United States within six months from,
the completion and final settlement of said contract, then
the person or persons supplying the Contractor with labor
and materials shall, upon application therefor, and furnishing affidavit . . . be furnished with a certified copy of
said contract and bond,. upon which he or they shall have
a right of action, and shall be, and are hereby, authorized
to bring suit in the name of the United States
against said contractor and his sureties, and to prosecute
the same to final judgment and execution; Provided,
That .
. it shall not be commenced until after the
complete performance of said contract and final settlement
thereof, and shall be commenced within one year after
the performance and final settlement of said contract, and
not later." In Texas Cement Co. v. McCord,1 233 U. S.
157, we said that this act created a new right of action
upon terms named; and hence that an action brought by,
creditors before six months had expired from the time of
the 'completion and final settlement of the contract'
could not be sustained. In the present case, the plaintiff
in error insists that there was no final settlement within
the meaning of the 'statute prior to the issue of the check
.

The statute is set forth in full in the margin of the opinion in the
case cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

for payment to the contractor on September 11, 1912,
and that in this view the action was brought too soon.
It was evidently the purpose of the Act of 1905 to
remedy the defect in the Act of 1894 by assuring to the
United States adequate opportunity to enforce its demand
against the contractor's surety and priority with respect
to such demand. Mankin v. Ludowici-Celadon Co., 215
U. S. 533, 538; United States v. Robinson, 214 Fed. Rep.
38, 39, 40. Accordingly it was provided that if the United
States sued upon the bond, the described creditors should
be allowed to intervene, and be made parties to the action,
but subject "to the priority of the claim and judgment
of the United States." And it was only in case the United
States did not sue within the specified period that the creditors could bring their action. With this object in view-to
protect the priority of the United States, and at the same
tifi~e to give a remedy to materialmen and laborers on
the contractor's bond and a reasonable time to prosecute it (Bryant v. N. Y. Steamfitting Co., 235 U. S. 327,
337)-it was natural that the time allowed exclusively
for action by the Government should begin to run when
the contract had been completed and the Government in
its final adjustment and settlement according to established administrative methods had determined what
amount, if any, was due. Then the Government would
have ascertained the amount of its claim, if it had one,
and could bring suit if it desired. As such determinations
are regularly made in the course of administration, nothing would seem to be gained, by postponing the date,
from which to reckon the six months, to the time of
payment. Indeed, if an amount were found to be due
from the contractor, and he was insolvent, there might
be no payment, and, if payment were essential, there
would be no date from which the time for the bringing of
the creditors' action could be computed.
The pivotal words are not 'final payment,' but 'final

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. PEELER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

*settlement' and in view of the significance of the latter
term in administrative practice, it is hardly likery that
it would have been used had it been intended to denote
payment. See United States v. Illinois Surety Co., 195
Fed. Rep. 306, 309; United States v. Bailey, 207 Fed. Rep.
782, 784; United States v. Robinson (C. C. A., Second),
supra; United States v. MassachusettsBonding Co., 215 Fed.
'Rep. 241, 244; United States v. Illinois Surety Co. (C. C. A.,
Seventh), 226 Fed. Rep. 653, 662. The word 'settlement'
in connection with public transactions and accounts has
been used from the beginning to describe administrative
determination of the amount due. By the Act of September 2, 1789, c. 12 (1 Stat. 65), establishing the Treasury
Department, the Comptroller was charged with the duty
of examining 'all accounts ,settled by the auditor'- (§3).
And it was made the duty of the auditor to receive 'all
public accounts and after examination to certify the
balance,' subject to the provision that any person whose
account should be so audited might appeal to the Comptroller 'against such settlement.' The Act of March 3,
1809, c. 28, §2 (2 Stat. 536), gave authority to the Comptroller to direct the auditor forthwith "to audit and
settle any particular account," which he was authorized
to audit and settle and "to report such settlement" for
his revision and final decision. (See Rev. Stat., § 271.)
By the Act of Maroh 3)- 1817, c. 45, § 2 (3 Stat. 366) it
was provided that "all claims and demands whatever,
by the United States or against them, and all accounts
whatever, in which the United States are concerned,
either as debtors or as creditors, shall be settled and adjusted in the Treasury Department." This provision
was carried, into § 236 "of the Revised Statutes. The
words 'settled and adjusted' were taken to mean the
'determination inthe Treasury Department for administrative purposes of the state of the account and the amount

due.. See 2 Op. Atty. Gen. 518; Id., 625, 629, 630. Re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ferring to this provision, it was said by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite in delivering the opinion of the court in Cooke v.
United States, 91 U. S. 389, 399: "Thus it is seen that
all claims against the United States are to be settled and
adjusted 'in the Treasury Department'; and that is located 'at the seat of government.' The assistant-treasurer
in New York is a custodian of the public money, which
he may pay out or transfer upon the order of-the proper
department or officer; but he has no authority to settle
and adjust, that is to say, to determine upon the validity
of, any claim against the government. He can pay only
after the adjustment has been made 'in the Treasury
Department' and then upon drafts drawn for that purpose
by the treasurer." Again, the Act of July 31, 1894, c.
174 (28 Stat. 162, 206-208), relating to the examination
of accounts by auditors, and revisions of accounts, etc.,
provides,- in. § 8, that "the balances which may from
time to time be certified by the Auditors to the Division
of* Bookkeeping and Warrants or to the PostmasterGeneral upon the- settlements of public accounts, shall
be final and conclusive upon the Executive Branch of
"the Government," except that any person whose accounts may have been "settled," the head of the Executive Department, etc., to which the account pertains, or
the Comptroller of the Treasury, may, within a year
obtain a revision in the manner stated; also that "any
person accepting payment under a settlement by an Auditor shall be thereby precluded from'obtaining a revision
of such settlement as to any items from which payment
is accepted," and, further, that "when suspended items
are finally settled a revision may be had as in the case of
the original settlement." By the Act of May 28, 1896,
c. 252, §4 (29 Stat. 140, 179), the Secretary of the Treasury was directed .to make report annually to Congress
of such officers as were found "upon final settlement of
their accounts" to have been indebted to the Government

ILLINOIS SURETY. CO. v. PEELER.
240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

and to have failed to pay the amount of their indebtedness
into the Treasury.
We should not say, of course, that instances may not
be found in which the word 'settlement' has been used in
acts of Congress in other senses, or in the sense of 'payment.' But it is apparent that the word 'settlement' in
connection with public contracts and accounts, which
are the subject of prescribed scrutiny for the purpose of
ascertaining the rights and obligations of the United
States, has a well defined meaning as denoting the appropriate administrative determination with respect to the
amount due. We think that the words 'final settlement'
in the Act of 1905 had reference t6 the time of this determination when, so far as the Government was concerned,
the amount which it was finally bound to pay or entitled
to receive was fixed administratively by the proper authority. It is manifestly of the utmost importance that
there should be nio uncertainty in the time from which
the six months' period runs. The time of the final administrative determination 'of the amount due is a definite
time fixed by public record and readily ascertained. As
an administrative matter, it does not depend upon the
consent or agreement of the other party to the contract
or account. The authority to make it may not be suspended, or held in abeyance, by refusal to agree. Whether
the amount so fixed is due, in law and fact, undoubtedly
remains a question to be adjudicated, if properly raised
in judicial proceedings, but this does not affect the running of the time for bringing action under the statutory
provision.
In the present case, the construction of the building
was in charge of the Secretary of the Treasury and under
the general supervision of the Supervising Architect. The
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to remit the
whole or any part of the stipulated liquidated damages as
in his discretion might be just and equitable. Act of

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
'Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

June 6, 1902, c. 1030, 32 Stat. 310, 326. On August 21,
.1912, the' Supervising -Architect having received the
certificate'of the chief of the technical division of the office
that all work embraced in the contract had been satisfactorily completed made his statement of the amoufit
finally due, recommending that only the actual damage
(as stated) be charged against the contractor and that
the proper voucher should be issued in favor of the contractor for -the balance, to wit, $3,999.01. And, on the
same date, this recommendation was approved and actual
damages charged accordingly by direction of the Secretary
of the Treasury. This, in our judgment, was the 'final
settlement' of the contract within the meaning of the
act. We understand that the administrative construction
of the act has been to the same effect. The regqlation of
the Treasury Department, as it appears from its circular.
issued f6r the information of persons interested in clains
for material. and labor supplied in the prosecution of work
on buildings under the control of that Department
,(Dept.
Circ.; No.-45, Sept. 12, 1912), is as follows: "The
department
treats as the date of final settlement
mentioned in'said acts" (referring to the Acts of 1894 and
1905, supra), "the date on which the department approves
the basis of settlement under such qontact recommended
by the Supervising Architect, and orders payment accordingly."
We conclude that the action was not brought prematur.ely.
2. With respect to the amendment of -the complaint, it
is apparent that -as there was an existing right of action
under the statute at the time the suit was brought, the
case was not within the decision, in Texas Cement Co. v.
Mcord, supra. No new or different cause of action was
alleged in the amended complaint. The court merely
permitted thedefective statehient of the existing right to
be corrected by the additiqn of appropriate allegations,

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. PEELER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and in this there was no error. Rev. Stat., § 954; Missouri, Kans. & Tex. Ry. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, 576.
3. It is contended that the- right given by the statute
to the described creditors is of an equitable nature, and
that the court erred in permitting recovery at law. The
objection in the present case is merely technical, as the
parties stipulated to waive trial by jury and the case was
heard and decided by the district judge upon facts about
which there is no dispute. The question has not been
raised heretofore in this court, but it has been assumed in
many cases that the action to be brought under the statute
upon the contractor's bond, whether the action were instituted by the United States (United States v. Congress
Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199) or by creditors in the
name of the United States, was an action at law. United
States Fidelity Co. V. Struthers Wells Co., 209 U. S. 306;
Mankin v. Ludowici-Celadon.Co., 215 U. S. 533; Title
Guaranty Co. v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 24, 35; Bryant v.
N. Y. Steamfitting Co., 235 U. S. 327. In Title Guaranty
Co. v. Crane Co:, supra, a question arose as to the propriety of allowing a docket fee to each claimant. Section 824 Of the Revised Statutes provides for a docket fee
of $10."in cases at law, when judgment is rendered without
a jury." The court said: "The allowance of a docket fee
of $iO to each claimant appears to us to be correct. Rev.
Stat., .§824. The claims are several and represent- distinct causes of action ir: different parties, although consolidated in a single suit." In the circuit and district
courts and in the circuit courts of appeals, while it seems
that objection has rarely been made, there has been almost
complete uniformity in treating the creditors' action under
the Act of 1905 as one at law. See United States v.
Winkler, 162 Fed. Rep. 397; Stitzer v. United States (C. C.
A., -Third), 182 Fed. Rep. 513; United States v. Boomer
(C. C. A., Eighth), 183 Fed. Rep. 726; United States v.
Illinois'Surety Co., 195 IFed. Rep. 306; Baker ContractCo. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

United States (C. C. A., Fourth), 204 Fed. Rep. 390;
Eberhart v. United States (C. C. A., Eighth), 204 Fed.
Rep. 884; United States v. Bailey, 207 Fed. Rep. 783;
Vermont Marble Co. v. National Surety Co. (C. C. A.,
Third), '213 Fed. Rep. 429; 'United States v. Robinson
(C. C. 'A., Second), 214 Fed. Rep. 38; United State& v.
MassachusettsBonding Co., 215 U. S. 241;',UnitedStates v.
Emery, 225 Fed. Rep. 287; United States v. Illinois Surety
Co. (C. C. A., Seventh), 226 Fed. Rep. 653. It was expressly held to be an action at law in United 'States v.
Stannard (D. C., N. D., N. Y.), 207 Fed. Rep. 198, 202.
The contrary conclusion was reached in United States v.
Wells- (D. C., E. D., Tenn.), 203 Fed. Rep. 146, 147;
Illinois Surety Co. v. United 8tates (C. C. A., Second), 212
Fed. Rep. 136, 139, and United States v. Scheurman (D. C.,
Idaho), 218 Fed. Rep. 915, 919. The point was raised on
rehearing in United States v. Illinois Surety Co. (C. C. A.,
Seventh), 226 Fed. Rep., pp. 653, 663, 664, but, as it came
too late, it was not decided.
The statute provides that the bond shall have "the
additional obligation that such contractor or contractors
shall promptly make payments to all persons supplying
him or them with labor and materials in the prosecution
of the work provided for in. such contract." In this
respect, the provision is substantially the same as that
contained in the Act of 1894, and the obligation in favor
of the materialmen and laborers has been held to be a
distinct obligation. Guaranty Co. v. Pressed Brick Co.,
191 U. S.416, 423, 425; Hill v. Am. Surety Co., 200 U. S.
197, 201, 202. It is an obligation for. the payment of
money to the persons described, which they are entitled
to enforce. The nature of the obligation is not changed
by the fact that there is to be but one action. If the
United States brings the action the persons described are
entitled to be made parties and "to have their rights and
claims adjudicated..in such action and judgment rondered.

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. PEELER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thereon.", If the United States does not sue within the
time specified, they may bring action on the bond in the
name of the United States and "prosecute the same to
final judgment and execution." Any creditor who duly
presents his claim in such an action becomes a party
thereto with a distinct cause of action. Title Guaranty
Co. v,Crane Co., supra. The obligation of the surety thus
enforced in a single action is a legal obligation to the
United States for the use and benefit of the several claimants. We do not regard the requirements that "the claim
and judgment of-the United States" shall have priority,
and that the aggregate recovery shall not exceed the
penalty of the bond, as insuperable obstacles to proceeding at law. It is the case of an undertaking for -the payment of many claims, not to exceed the specified penalty.
If the total amount due exceeds the penalty of the bond,
it is provided that "judgment shall be given to each
creditor pro rata of the amount of the recovery." This,
however, merely requires an arithmetical calculation after
the different causes of action have been passed upon and
the amount due upon each determined. We see no ground
upon which the conclusion can be justified that the liability of the surety on its bond is to be determined in
equity. The contrary has been the generally accepted
and, we think, the correct practice.
It should be added that a different situation would
arise if the surety, availing itself of the statutory privilege,
should pay into court the full amount of its liability, to
wit, the penalty on the bond, for distribution. In that
base the legal obligation of the surety would be discharged
by the express terms of 'the statute and the proceeding
would be simply for the distribution of a fund in court.
4. The plaintiff in error contends that the court erred
in giving judgment in favor of the Carolina Electrical
Company. The record shows that among those named
as the persons instituting the action was the "Electrical

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Engineering and Contracting Company, assignee of
Joseph B. Cheshire, Jr., receiver of the Carolina Electrical
Company." The complaint set forth that the Carolina
Electrical Company (a North Carolina corporation) had
furnished to the contractor certain. material and labor
for which there remained unpaid the sum of $498.69;
that on October 4, 1912, Joseph B. Cheshire, Jr., was
appointed receiver of that company; and that on March 1,
1913, its claim had been "assigned and transferred for
value" to the above-named plaintiff by the receiver,
and that the plaintiff was the sole owner of the account
and had succeeded to all the rights incident thereto which
had belonged to the Carolina Electrical Company. The
alleged transfer was denied. Evidence was introduced
to show the incorporation, and the appointment of the
receiver. The district judge found that the order proved
was insufficient to establish the authority of the receiver
to assign the claim, but held that the proceeding in the
case was a sufficient filing of the claim on behalf of the
Carolina Electrical Company. Judgment was awarded
in favor of that company with direction that it should be
paid "only to such person as may be authorized by law
to receive it for said Carolina Electrical Company," and
the judgment to this effect was affirmed.
In this, we think the court erred. The Carolina Electrical Company was not one of the plaintiffs and there was
no intervention on its behalf. The trial court in its findings sets forth the interventions of certain other parties
and states that no morb interventions appear to have
been filed in the cause. It is true, of course, that the real
party in interest who is entitled to enforce the cause of
action may be substituted-as plaintiff. See McDonald v.
Nebraska, 101 Fed. Rep. 171, 178. But the present case
is not one of misnomer, or of a nominal plaintiff for whom
the real party in interest is substituted, or indeed of any
proper substitution. The plaintiff, the Electrical En-

KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.

240 U. S.

Syllabus.

gineering & Contracting Company was not a nominal
party, nor was the action in any senselbrought for the bene-,
fit of the Carolina Electrical Company. The record shows
that it was brought, so far as this claim is concerned,
solely for' the benefit of the Electrical Engineering &
Contracting Company upon the allegation that the claim
had been assigned to it for value and that it was the exclusive and beneficial owner. According to the record,
the Carolina Electrical Company was not made a party
at any stage of the action unless this was accomplished
by the decision and the judgment. But at the time of
the decision, November 10, 1913, by reason of the express
limitation of the statute, it was too late for that company
to intervene.
The judgment is modified by striking out the provision
in favor of the Carolina Electrical Company, and as thus
modified is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS .CITY, FORT SCOTT & MEMPHIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BOTKIN, SECRETARY OF
STATE OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 450. Submitted January 7, 1916.-Decided'February 21, 1916.

The State cannot lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form by
imposing it either upon business constituting such commerce or on
the privilege of engaging in it, or upon the receipts as such derived

therefrom.
Whether a state tax has such a direct relation to interstAte commerce
as to be an exercise of power prohibited by the commerce clause
depends upon the operation and effect of the tax as enforced and

