OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

therefore, is here absolutely controlling and decisive. It
follows that for the reasons stated in the opinion in the
Brushaber Case the judgments in these cases must be and
they are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of these cases.

DODGE v. OSBORN, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 396. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Revised Stat., § 3224, is not inapplicable to taxes imposed by the
Income Tax Law of 1913, but is clearly within the contemplation of
par. L, of the Law, 38 Stat. 179.
The provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 3220, 3226, 3227, are also applicable to
proceeding for recovery of taxes erroneously or illegally assessed
and collected under the Income Tax Law of 1913.
A suit may not be brought to enjoin the assessment or collection of a
tax because of the alleged unconstitutionality of the statute imposing
it.
The facts that many suits would have to be brought by persons to
recover taxes paid under an unconstitutional statuteand that meanwhile, under Rev. Stat., § 3187, taxes imposed become a lien and
constitute a cloud on the title of property, held inadequate to sustain
jurisdiction of a suit in equity to restrain the collection of taxes on
the ground of unconstitutionality of the statute imposing them.
There is no violation of due process of law under the Fifth Amendment
in the provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 3220, 3226 and 3227, requiring an

DODGE v. OSBORN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue after payment of
taxes and only having a right to sue after his refusal to refund.
43 App. D. C. 144, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court of suits brought to restrain the collection of taxes
and the construction and application of §§ 3220, 3224,
3226 and 3227, Rev. Stat., are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. Fred A. Baker
was on the brief, for appellants.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The appellants filed their bill in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia against the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue to enjoin the assessment and collection
of the taxes imposed by the Income Tax section of the
Tariff Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, § II, 38 Stat. 166, 181,
and especially the surtaxes therein provided for on the
ground that the statute was void for repugnancy to the
Constitution of the United States. The case is here on
appeal from the judgment of the court below affirming
the action of the trial court in sustaining a motion to dismiss the complaint for want of jurisdiction because the
complainants had an adequate remedy at law and because
of the provision of Rev. Stat., § 3224, that "No suit for
the purpose of restiaining the assessment or collection of
any tax shall be maintained in any court."
We at once. put out of view a contention that Rev.
Stat., § 3224, is not applicable to taxes imposed by the
Income Tax Law since we are clearly of the opinion that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

it is within the contemplation of paragraph L (38 Stat.
179), of the act which provides:
"That all administrative, special, and general provisions of law, including the laws in relation to the assessment, remission, collection, and refund of internal-revenue
taxes not heretofore specifically repealed and not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, are hereby extended and made applicable to all the provisions of this
section and to the tax herein imposed."
And for the same reasonwe do not further notice a contention as to the inapplicability of Rev. Stat., §§ 3220,
3226, 3227, to which effect was given by the court below
requiring an appeal to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue after payment of a tax claimed to have been
erroneously or illegally assessed and collected and upon
his refusal to return the sum paid giving a right to sue for
its recovery.
The question for decision therefore is whether the sections of the Revised Statutes referred to are controlling
as to the case in hand. The plain purpose and scope of
the sections are thus stated in Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S.
189, 193-194, a suit brought to enjoin the collection of a
revenue tax on tobacco:
"The inhibition of Rev. Stat., § 3224, applies to all
assessments of taxes, made under color of their offices,
by internal revenue officers charged with general jurisdiction of the subject of assessing taxes against tobacco
manufacturers. The remedy of a suit to recover back
the tax after it is paid is provided by statute, and a suit
to restrain its collection is forbidden. The remedy so
given is exclusive, and no other remedy can be substituted for it. . . . Cheatham v. United States, 92
U. S. 85, 88, and again in State Railroad Tax Cases, 92
U. S. 575, 613,. it was said by this court, that the system
prescribed by the United States in regard to both customs
duties and internal revenue taxes, of stringent measures,

DODGE v. OSBORN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not judicial, to collect them, with appeals to specified tribunals, and suits to recover back moneys illegally exacted
was a system of corrective justice intended to be complete,
and enacted under the right belonging to the Government
to prescribe the conditions on which it would subject
itself to the judgment of the courts in the collection of
its revenues. In the exercise of that right, it declares, by
§ 3224, that its officers shall not be enjoined from collecting a tax claimed to have been unjustly assessed, when
those officers, in the course of general jurisdiction over the
subject-matter in question, have made the assignment
(assessment) and claim that it is valid."
And this doctrine has been repeatedly applied until it is
no longer open to question that a suit may not be brought
to enjoin the assessment or collection of a tax because of
the alleged unconstitutionality of the statute imposing it.
Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. v.
Board of Public Works, 172 U. S. 32; Pacific Whaling Co.
v. United States, 187,U. S. 447, 451, 452.
But it is contended that this doctrine has no application
to a case where wholly independent of any claim of the
unconstitutionality of the tax sought to be enjoined, additional equities sufficient to sustain jurisdiction are alleged, and this, it is asserted, being such a case, falls
within the exception to the general rule. But conceding
for argument's sake only the legal premise upon which
the'contention rests, we think the conclusion that this
case falls within such exception is wholly without merit,
since after an examination of the complaint we are of
the opinion that no ground for equitable jurisdiction is
alleged. It is true the complaint contains averments
that unless the taxes are enjoined many suits by other
persons will be brought for the recovery of the taxes paid
by.them, and also that by reason of Rev. Stat., § 3187,
making the tax a lien on plaintiffs' property the assessment of the taxes would constitute a cloud on plaintiffs'

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court,

240 U. S.

title. But these allegations are wholly inadequate undler
the hypothesis which we have assumed solely for the sake
of the argument, to sustain jurisdiction, since it is apparent on their face they allege no ground for equitable
relief independent of the mere complaint that the tax is
illegal and unconstitutional and should not be enforcedallegations which if recognized as a basis for equitable
jurisdiction would take every case where a tax was assailed because of its unconstitutionality out of the provisions of the statute and thus render it nugatory, while
it is obvious that the statute plainly forbids the enjoining
of a tax unless by some extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstance its provisions are not applicable.
There is a contention that the provisions requiring an
appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue after
payment of the taxes and giving a right to sue in case of
his refusal to refund are wanting in due process and therefore there is jurisdiction. But we think it suffices to state
that pontention to demonstrate its entire want of merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

DODGE v. BRADY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 213. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Under the exceptional conditions of this case, while there may have
been ground for the District Court dismissing it for lack of jurisdiction, as there was a basis for taking jurisdiction and the decision
was clearly right on the merits, this court does not reverse, but

