OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

bring the propositions to the true basis upon which they
rest serves at once without more to establish their absolute
want of foundation and to demonstrate the correctness
of the judgment below and the duty to affirm it.

Affirmd.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 193.

Argued January 21, 24, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

Under Rev. Stat., § 1265, an officer of the army is entitled to half pay
while on leave granted by proper authority.
No power has been conferred on the President to grant an army officer
leave without pay, or to affix to an order granting leave a condition
to that effect.
Whatever power the President may have to dismiss civil officers, it does
not apply to officers of the Army and Navy, who, under Rev. Stat.,
§ 1229, shall not in time of peace be dismissed except upon and in
pursuance of the sentence of a court-martial or in commutation
thereof.
An officer of the army granted, and accepting, leave without pay is
not estopped from demanding the half pay allowed by statute, even
though he did not protest at the affixing of such a condition to the
order granting the leave. Glavey v. United States, 182 U. S. 595.
Accepting leave with the condition affixed that it be without pay
does not amount to absence without leave for which pay cannot be
allowed under the statute.
Public policy prohibits any attempt by unauthorized agreement with
an officer -of the United States, under guise of a condition or otherwise,to deprive him of the right to pay given by statute.
49 Ct. Cl. 707, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of statutes
regulating pay of officers of the Army of the United States
while on leave, are stated in the opinion.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
240 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States:
The President had the power to make the order complained of which left appellee upon leave without pay.
Reaves v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S. 296, 304; United States v.
Ross, 239 U. S. 530.
Claimant having accepted the extension order by continuing on leave without pay, and not having made any
protest or objection until more than two years afterwards,
acquiesced.
The President's power to put appellee on leave without
pay cannot be questioned; for, although § 1265, Rev. Stat.,
does not specifically grant him this power, it does not deny
him such power. Shurtleff v. United States, 189 U. S. 311,
317.
If the President did exceed his powers in the order
putting appellee upon leave without pay, then appellee
was absent without authority and therefore on leave
without pay under § 1265, Rev. Stat.
. Neither Glavey v. United States, 182 'U. S.'595, nor
§ 1229, Rev. Stat., is relevant to the 'issues here presented.
The. President has the right to suspend an officer temporarily where the exigencies or good of the service demand it, or to furlough him for a definite period for the
same reason, or to remove him entirely from office.
Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 259; Blake v. United States, 103
U. S.227, 236; Mullan v. United States, 140 U. S. 240;
Parsonv. United States, 167 U. S. 324; Shurtleff v. United
States, 189 U. S. 317.
Rev. Stat., § 1229, has nothing to do with the circumstances involved in this case, for the: President did not
drop appellee from the rolls of the Army or attempt to do
so. Hartiganv. United States, 196 U. S. 169.
If the President be not controlled by § 1229, Rev. Stat.,
then his power to furlough appellee without pay would

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

be the same as though he were a civil employ.
United
States v. Murray, 100 U. S. 536.
The order of the President was a regulation for the internal administration of the Army, the maintenance of
its discipline, clearly within his discretion, and not subject to review by the courts. It has been the general practice not only i1i the Army, but in the other departments of
the Government, to grant leaves of abser~ce without pay.
To hold that this cannot be done, and that an officer of
the Army or civilian employ4 could enjoy the privilege
granted to him, and then bring suit to recover pay for
the period of such leave, would create great inconvenience and confusion in the administration of the internal
affairs of the Government.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. William E; Harvey were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court:
The United States appeals from a judgment awarding the appellee $325 found to be due him under Rev.
Stat. § 1265 for half pay as a captain of cavalry of fifteen
years' service for a period of three months from August 1
to October 31, 1907, during which time it was found he
was absent on leave. The court stated the facts as follows:
"The claimant having accepted employment with a
commercial company, was granted six months' leave of
absence, to take effect January 1, 1907; by paragraph 2,
Special Orders, No. 305, War Department, dated December 28, 1906, which leave was extended for four months,
to take effect July 1, 1907, and to expire October 31, 1907,
by paragraph 26, Special Orders, War Department, dated
June 17, 1907.
"While the claimant was enjoying the extension of his
leave of absence, The Adjutant General of the United

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States Army on July 31, 1907, sent him the following
telegram:
"'By direction of the President, although your leave
is not revoked, your absence from this date will be without pay.'
"His leave without pay from August 1, 1907, to October 31, 1907, was not requested by the claimant, but
he did not file a protest against such action nor relinquish
his leave and return to duty.
The claimant was .absent from duty from January 1,
1907, to October 31, 1907. From August 1, 1907, to
October 31, 1907, he received no pay. His half pay for
said period was $325."
It is apparent from the authorities cited in the per
curiam opinion of the court below (Glavey v. United
States, 182 U. S. 595; Whiting v. United States, 35 Ct. Cl.
291, 301; Dyer v. United States, 20 Ct. Cl. 166) that the
allowed recovery was based upon the conclusion that the
half pay during the leave of absence was expressly sanctioned by law (Rev. Stat., § 1265) and hence any condition conflicting with such statutory right was void and
that the officer being entitled to rely upon the statute, no
estoppel against him could be implied because of his
having acted upon the leave, albeit it contained a condition in conflict with the rights conferred by the statute.
To test the merits of these conclusions will dispose of the
entire case, since all the contentions of the Government
are embraced in three propositions: 1, the asserted existence of authority to grant the leave conditioned on its
being without pay notwithstanding the statute; 2, even
if such power did not exist the binding effect of the condition upon the officer who accepted the leave which was
subject to it; and 3, in any event the impossibility of
separating the grant of leave from the condition upon
which the leave was based, thus under the hypothesis of
illegality rendering the grant void and causing the ab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

sence from duty which was enjoyed under the apparent
sanction of the grant to be an absence without leave for
which under the statute no right to pay existed, It is
manifest that these contentions assume, as did the conclusions of the court below, that the telegram stated in the
findings operated to grant a new leave for the three months
therein specified subject to the condition that it should
be without pay, and in separately testing the propositions
we shall treat the telegraphic order as having that significance.
1. As in view of the plain text of Rev. Stat., § 1265,
there is no room for disputing that the right to half pay
durin the period of the leave in question was conferred
by the statute, there is and can be no dispute that tested
by the statute alone the court below did not err in allowing the claim for such half pay. But the contention is
that error was committed because the conferring of the
right to pay by the statute was not exclusive and therefore
did not deprive of the authority as an incident to the
power, to grant the leave to affix the condition that the.
leave should be without pay notwithstanding the statute.
It is unnecessary, however, to stop to point out the unsoundness of this proposition, since the error upon which
it rests is authoritatively demonstrated by previous decisions which substantially leave the proposition not open
for -discussion. United States v. Williamson, 23 Wall.
411, 416; United States v. Wilson, 144 U. S. 24; United
States v. Shields, 153 U. S. 88, 91; Glavey v. United States,
182 U. S. 595. Nor in contemplation of the cases which
we have just cited and additionally in view of the provision of Rev. Stat., § 1229, that "no officer in the military,
or naval service shall in time of peace be dismissed from
service except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of
a court-martial to.that effect, or in commutation thereof,"
is there any necessity to point out the want of application
of the authorities dealing with the power to dismiss civil

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

officers which are cited as a basis for the proposition that
a like power applies to army officers and therefore as
there was authority to dismiss, the lesser right of granting
the leave without pay necessarily obtained. So also it is

unnecessary to enter into any detailed analysis of the
decision in Hartiganv. United States, 196 U. S. 169, since
that case concerned the power to remove a cadet at the
Military Academy and the recognition of the right to
exercise that authority was in express terms based upon
the view that although in a sense a part of the army cadets
at the Military Academy were not officers within the
intendment of Rev. Stat., §1229, and indeed the opinion
in the Hartigan Case in substance refutes the extreme
contention as to power which is now sought to be sustained.
2. The contention as to the estoppel resulting from the
failure to protest against the condition affixed to the
leave and the binding force of such condition even if
illegal, resulting from an acceptance of the leave containing it, is by necessary implication foreclosed by all
the cases previously cited and in fact was in express terms
considered and held to be without merit in Glavey v.

United States, supra. Because that case coneerned an
illegal condition attached to the performance of the duties
of an office and this involves an illegal condition attached
to a grant of leave affords no ground for distinction between
that case and this. The basis of the ruling in the Glavey
Case was the right of the official to rely upon the provisions
of the statute and the resulting want of power to apply a
principle of estoppel. And as here there was express
statutory authority for the half pay during the leave, the
reason in the Glavey Case is controlling and the distinction
relied upon involves no difference justifying taking this
case out of the principle settled in the Glavey Case. As
the statute conferred the right to the half pay during the
leave, it necessarily follows that the exclusion of executive
authority over that subject which resulted extended to

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

and was coterminous with the power which the statute
exerted.
3. The contention that even if the condition which was
attached to the leave be treated as illegal, and the acceptance of the leave containing it be decided not to have
operated an estoppel, nevertheless under such circumstances the leave must be treated as void and the absence
based on it be held to have been one without leave for
which no pay could be allowed under the statute, is selfcontradictory and besides in its essence must rest upon
the assumption that there was power to affix the condition,
the terms of the statute to the contrary notwithstanding.
The contention therefore is in substance foreclosed by
Glavey v. United States, supra, and the decided cases to
which we have previously referred. How completely
this is the case will be demonstrated by observing that
the decision in the Glavey Case was expressly based on the
ground that public policy forbade giving any effect whatever to an attempt to deprive by unauthorized agreement
made with an official, express or implied, under the guise
of a condition or otherwise, of the right to the pay given
by the statute. And of course the contention now made
that the absence with leave which carried pay under the
statute was converted into an absence without leave
carrying no pay in consequence of an unauthorized attempt to subject the granted leave to an illegal provision
that it should be without pay is absolutely in' conflict
with the previous cases and the rule of public policy upon
which they were based. In fact the contention but in a
changed form asserts the application of estoppel which
as we have seen was expressly adversely disposed of in
the previous cases.
Affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

