OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

UNION NAVAL STORES COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 80. Submitted December 20, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
A claim of the United States for spirits of turpentine and rosin taken
from government lands is not fatally defective because the crude
and not the manufactured property was taken from the land, or
because the land was described by the general description by which
it was known, there being no other lands so known.
There being evidence from -which the jury could form a reasonably
certain estimate of amount of crude product taken by a trespasser
from government land and the probable amount of manufactured
product it would produce, held that defendant was not entitled to
a peremptory instruction in his favor, or one to limit recovery to
nominal damages, because the precise quantity was not shown.
Land entered by a homesteader remains public land of the United
States for five years and until patent is issued, subject to the right
of the homesteader-to treat the land as his own, so far, and only
so far, as is necessary to carry out the purposes of the act; and such
purposes do not include boxing and chipping trees for the purpose
of extracting turpentine or rosin for sale and profit.
Such boxing and chipping is not cultivation; and, as government publications have pointed out, seriously affects the value of the trees.
'the Act of June 4, 1906, c. 2571, 34 Stat. 208 (Crim. Code, ยง 51), prohibiting the boxing of trees on government land for turpentine,
rendered criminal that which prior to the passage of the act was
actionable; and one conducting, with full knowledge of the facts,
in 1904 and 1905, turpentine operations on government land under
an unperfected homestead entry was a willful trespasser, and ignorance of the law does not excuse him.
Where, as in this case, the trespass was willful, the United States is not
divested of its property, but is entitled to the product manufactured
by a third person who knowingly purchased the same from' the trespasser.
One knowingly taking property of another cannot, by changing its
form or increasing its value, or commingling it with other property
of his own, acquire title by accession.

UNION NAVAL STORES v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that the purchaser had a mortgage on the product, both crude
and manufactured, of the trespasser, which contained an after-acquired property clause and covered a large amount of other property
held not to affect the right of the United States to recover that part
of the manufactured product which the jury found was derived from
the crude article taken from government land.
One knowingly purchasing a manufactured article from a trespasser
who converted the crude article, must account for the value as manufactured and can take no credit for the work and labor of the wrongdoer in manufacturing it.
202 Fed. Rep. 491, Affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of one who improperly converted turpentine and rosin from Government
lands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard W. Stoutz for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for the United

States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action by the United States against the
Union Naval Stores Company for the corversion during
.the years 1904 and 1905 of spirits of turpentine and rosin
alleged to have been taken by defendant from certain
Government lands in the County of Mobile, in the State
of Alabama, known as the Freeland Homestead, and thus
and otherwise more particularly described in the complaint.
The facts, as they appeared at the trial, were as follows:
Freeland had made an application for a homestead entry
under. ยง 2289, Rev." Stat., but never perfected it. Being
the owner of 'other lands in the same neighborhood, Freeland agreed with one Rayford to give him a turpentine
lease for a lump sum upon all of his timber, not includA third party having been eming the homestead.
ployed to reduce the agreement to writing, Freeland discovered that the homestead had been included, and he
called Rayford's attention to this and tendered back the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U4 S.

check given for the consideration money, on the ground
that if the homestead was included in the lease he would
be in danger of losing his entry. Rayford replied: "There
is no law against turpentining a piece of homestead land
as long as you. are on it." And so Freeland made no further objection.
Rayford, during the years in question, conducted turpentining operations upon the Freeland homestead and a
large number of other tracts in its vicinity. Under date
December 21, 1903, he had entered into a "shipping contract" with the Union Naval Stores Company, by which he
undertook to cut and box at least 10 crops of 10,500 boxes
each from lands described in a deed of trust or mortgage
of even date given by him to one Wade as trustee of the
company, and to manufacture the crude turpentine into
spirits of turpentine and rosin, and deliver the manufactured product at Mobile, Alabama, or other points selected
by it. By the same agreement plaintiff in error undertook
to advance moneys to be used by Rayford, and that it
would receive the manufactured turpentine and rosin and
sell it for Rayford's account at stipulated charges and commissions. The mortgage was given to secure the advances
and the performance of the shipping agreement. It
covered Rayford's turpentine leases, and also all crude
and manufactured spirits of turpentine, and other products
owned or in any manner secured by Rayford during the
continuance of the contract. The crude turpentine taken
by Rayford from the homestead was mixed with that taken
from his other properties at or before it reached the still;
and the manufactured products were shipped from time
to time to plaintiff in error at Mobile, bills of lading being
sent by mail, and accounts of sales being returned by
plaintiff in error to Rayford.
It was admitted that, during the years. 1904 and 1905,
spirits of turpentine and rosin were received by plaintiff in
error from Rayford, under the contract and mortgage re-

UNION NAVAL STORES v. UNITED STATES. 287
240 U: S.

Opinion of the Court.

ferred to, in quantities greater than those claimed for in
the suit. There was evidence as to the market values of
these products during the period in question, but none as
to the market value of crude turpentine. A verdict and
judgment having gone in favor of the United States for
$2,447.55, defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, where it was directed that so much of this as
represented interest prior to the commencement of 'he
action should be remitted, and the judgment otherwise
affirmed. 202 Fed. Rep. 491.
There are numerous assignments of error, based upon
exceptions taken at the trial, one of them to the refusal to
direct a verdict in favor of defendant, the others to instructions given or refused to be given. Without reciting
these in detail, we will express our views upon the principal questions of law that are raised.
Neither the complaint nor the evidence is fatally defective or uncertain. The claim is for spirits of turpentine
and rosin taken from certain described lands. That it was
the crude and not the manufactured product that was in a
literal sense taken fron the land is of no consequence.
The land is referred to only to identify the chattels, conversion of which is alleged. Whether there was an error
in the particular description of'the lands, as is insisted, is a
matter of no serious consequence, for they were otherwise
described as the "Louis I. Freeland Homestead," and
there was uncontradicted evidence that the lands referred
tc,'and no others, were known by this description. That
the evidence did not show precisely what quantities of
turpentine spirits and rosin, manufactured from the crude
turpentine taken from the homestead, -were received by
the plaintiff in error, was not -ground for a peremptory
instruction to find'for defendant or to limit the recovery
to nominal damages, sihace there was evidence from which
the jury could form a reasonably certain estimate of the
amount of crude taken from the homestead during the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

years in question, and the amount of spirits and rosin that
this probably yielded.
There was no error in charging that "the boxing of
trees by a settler on public land covered by an unperfected homestead entry, or by any person who knew it was
public land (which an unperfected homestead entry is),
and the extracting of crude turpentine therefrom, constitutes in law an intentional, willful trkespass, although
he may have acted without kn wjedgeof t he illegality of

the act, and that from such persons the>United States are
entitled to recover the value of the product manufactured
from such crude turpentine by the 'settler, or from any
person into whose possession the same may have passed."
This refers, of course, as other parts of the charge clearly
show, to a manufacture by Rayford,-who was himself the
trespasser.
The rights and privileges of an entrymnan with reference
to standing timber -were considered and discussed in
Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S. 491, 497, 498, where,
after review~ing 'the pertinent- sections of the Revised
Statutes, it was said F' From thia r6sum6 of the homestead

act, it is evident, first, that the land entered continues to
be the property of the United States for five years fOllowing the entry, and until a patent is issued; . . . third,

that meantime such settler has the right to treat the land
as his own, so far, and so far only, as is necessary to carry

out the purposes of the act. The object of this legislation
is to preserve the right of the actual settler, but not to
open the door to manifest abuses of such right. Obviously
the privilege of residing on the land for five years would be
ineffectual if he had not also the right "to build himself a
house, outbuildings, and fences, and to clear the land for
cultivation.

.

.

. It is equally clear that he is bound

to act in good faith to the government, and that he has
no right to pervert the law to dishorest purposes, or to
make use of the land for profit or speculation. The law

UNION NAVAL STORES v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

289

Opinion of the Court.

contemplates the possibility of his abandoning it, but he
may not in the meantime ruin its value to others, who,
may wish to purchase or enter it. With respect to the
standing timber, his privileges ate analogous to those ol a
tenant for life or years. . .
By analogy we think
the settler upon a homestead may cut such timber as is.
necessary to clear the land for cultivation, or to build him
a house, outbuildings, and fences, and, perhaps, as indicated in the charge of the court below, to exchange.such
timber for lumber to be devoted to the same purposes;
but not to sell the same for money, except so far as the
timber may have been cut for the purpose of cultivation."
There is nothing in the letter or policy of the homestead
act that permits the boxing and chipping of pine trees for
the purpose of extracting turpentine for sale and profit.
It cannot be regarded as cultivation within the meaning
of the act; it affects the value of the inheritance too
seriously for that. As is well known, the process requires
the cutting of a deep gash or "box" into the side of the
tree, so shaped as to catch and retain a considerable quantity of the crude gum, and repeated chippings thereafter,
by each of which an additignal portion of the bark is cut
through to the wood so as to expose a fresh bleeding surface. It not only saps the vital strength of the tree and
lessens its power to resist the force of the wind, but exposes
the wood to decay and to wood-boring grubs and beetles;
while the waste gum, being highly inflammable, increases
the danger of forest fires. Government publications have
repeatedly pointed out the ill effects of the practice.'
The recognition of these evils led Congress to pass the
1 "A New Method of Turpentina Orcharding," Bulletin No. 40,
Bureau of Forestry, 1903, pp. 9-13; "The Naval Stores Industry,"
Bulletin No. 229, Department of Agriculture, July 28, 1915; "Conservative Turpentining," Senate Doc. 676, 60th Cong., 2d Sess.,
Vol. 11, p. 498. See also I Land Dec. 607; 4 Land Dec. 1; 5 Land
Dec.389; 36 Land Dec. 302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

act of June 4, 1906, ch. 2571, 34 Stat. 208, now found in
Crim. Code, ยง 51 (act of March 4, 1909, ch. 321, 35 Stat.
1088, 1098). It is true that in Bryant v. United States
(1901), 105 Fed. Rep. 941, the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, in holding that boxing for turpentine
was not a criminal offense within the meaning of ยง 246,
Rev. Stat., said, obiter, "We think it is not a matter of
common knowledge that such cutting and boxing of pine
trees destroy the value of the trees as timber, or that it has
a tendency even to retard the growth of the trees," and
that this view was made the basis of a decision by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit that prior
to the act of 1906 the boxing of trees for turpentine on
public lands was not actionable. United States v. WatersPierce Oil Co., 196 Fed. Rep. 767, 769. We are clear,
however, that the act of 1906 only rendered criminal that
which before was actionable because not included in any
right or privilege expressly or by implication conferred
upon the homesteader by the act of Congress. So the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held in
Parish v. United States, 184 Fed. Rep. 590. And see
United States v. Taylor, 35 Fed. Rep. 484.
Rayford, in conducting his turpentining operations upon
the homestead with notice that the land was the property
of the United States, became a willful trespasser, although
he may have supposed, as he is said to have declared, that
there was "no law against it." He acted with full notice
of the facts, and his mistake of law cannot excuse him.
Upon the facts as the jury must have found them, the
distillation by Rayford of the gum that was taken from
the Government's land was a continuing act of trespass
that did not divest the United States of its property but
left it still entitled to the manufactured products. The
Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall. 356, 369. If the doctrine of
confusion of goods were to be applied, the entire product
of the still would belong to the United States. , The

UNION NAVAL STORES v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court.

"Idaho," 93 U. S. 575, 586. But by the instructions of the
trial judge recovery was limited to the value of the products manufactured from crude gum taken from the Freeland Homestead.
It is ingeniously argued that a different rule must
govern as between the United States and the defendant
company, because' the company had a mortgage upon
Rayford's product, both crude and manufactured; that
the crude stuff as soon as it reached the still was inextricably mixed with a much greater quantity to which Rayford had an unquestioned title which passed to defendant
at once by virtue of the mortgage, and that the evidence
shows such hopeless confusion and admixtures of unknown
quantities and varying qualities of gum that no reasonable
ascertainment of the rights of the parties as tenants in
common is possible; therefore, the Government property,
being relatively small in value, passed to defendant under
the doctrine of accession. It is less confidently argued
that the same result would apply even as between the
lawful owner and a willful trespasser; but this we deem
clearly untenable. One who knowingly takes the property
of another cannot, by changing its form or increasing its
value, or by commingling it with other property of his own,
acquire title by accession. The Distilled Spirits, supra;
Silsbury v. McCoon, 3 N. Y. 379; 53 Am. Dec. 307, 315,
note.
The argument based upon the mortgage is confronted
with this obstacle, to say nothing of others: that the
mortgage and the shipping contract alike contemplated
that Rayford should manufacture the crude turpentine
into spirits and rosin and ship these to defendant, and
such was the actual course of dealing thereunder. Defendant at no time asserted any lien upon or property in the
crude material by virtue of the mortgage. And even if it
were now permitted by a fiction to assert ownership in all
that part of the crude gum which was the lawful property

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

of Rayford, as of the time that it reached his still, it must
perforce place itself in the position of employing Rayford
as its agent for the purpose of distilling the turpentine.
Now Rayford, in doing this, placed with it a comparatively
small, but still substantial, quantity of crude turpentine
that was the property of the United States. Defendant
cannot take a benefit from the distilling operations thus
conducted by Rayford without at the same time assuming
a responsibility for that which he did; and what he did in
distilling the Government's gum was a continuing trespass, that left the United States entitled to its property
in its changed form, the same if the distilling was done by
Rayford under an agency from defendant, as if done on his
individual account.
And of course, if defendant's title dates from the time
of the delivery to it of the manufactured product, it can
take no greater interest than that which Rayford held.
Thus, whether we indulge the fiction, or whether we
adhere to the practical fact, which is that Rayford under
the contract delivered manufactured products to defendant, the latter can take no credit for the work and
labor bestowed upon the turpentine by the wrongdoer,
but must answer for its value as manufactured products.
Wooden-ware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432, 435;
Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101, 119.
The after-acquired-property clause in the mortgage
does not help matters for defendant. Property in the
turpentine could not be acquired by Rayford without the
consent of the United States, and this he did not have.
See Holt v. Henley, 232 U. S. 637, 640; Detroit Steel Co. v.
Sistersville Brew. Co., 233 U. S. 712.
It is insisted that if a tenancy in common existed in
the manufactured product, the possession of it by defendant company was not tortious, and that in order to
show a conversion there must be either a demand for
possession and refusal thereof, or a showing that some

UNION NAVAL STORES v. UNITED STATES. 293.
240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

disposition was made of the chattels inconsistent with
and destructive of the rights of plaintiff as co-tenant.
But, taking the shipping contract and the.mortgage with
the testimony and admissions as to the course of business
carried on thereunder, the jury was fully warranted in
finding that defendant had converted the manufactured
products by selling them soon after they were received,
and accounting to Rayford for the proceeds. The question of conversion was submitted to the jury, With a
proper instruction that in such event a demand for possession was futile and therefore unnecessary.
The trial court instructed-the jury that recovery should
be based upon the market value of the spirits and rosin at
the time they were received.by defendant, and it is insisted that the value at the time of the conversion ought
to have been taken instead. As to this it is sufficient. to
say that, except as it was to be inferred that probably
the manufactured products were sold not, long after their
receipt by defendant, there is nothing to throw light upon
the time that intervened between receipt and sale; and
while by stipulation the highest and lowest market prices
for turpentine and for rosin during the years 1904 and'
1905 were shown, it did not appear at what time the
prices were high, and at what time low. In short, the
evidence contained nothing to aid the jury in distinguishing between the market price at the time of receipt and
the market price at the time of sale. Defendant did
nothing-if it could-to elucidate the matter by evidence,
nor did its exceptions call the attention of the trial judge
to the point now insisted upon.
Minor points are raised, but none that seems to call
for discussion.
Judfment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration *ordecision of this case.

