OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAIL-:
WAY COMPANY v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 302.

Argued March 17, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Legislation cannot be .all-comprehensive, and police statutes otherwise valid may, without being unconstitutional as denying equal
protection of the law, contain practical groupings of objects which
fairly well present a class, although there may be exceptions in
which the evil aimed at is deemed by the legislature to be not so
flagrant.
The statute of Arkansas, requiring full switching crews on railroads
exceeding one hundred miles in length, is not unconstitutional as
depriving a railroad company over one hundred miles in length, of
its property without due process of law, or as denying it equal protection of the law, or as an interference with, or burden upon, interstate commerce. Chicago & Rock Island Ry. v. Arkansas, 219
U. S. 453.
114 Arkansas, 486, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce, due process and equal protection provisions
of the Constitution of the United States and of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto, of the full switching crew statute of Arkansas, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert E. Wiley, with whom Mr. Edward J. While
and Mr. E. B. Kinsworthy were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The act of February 20, 1913, is discriminatory, and
denies to plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment: Soon Hing v.
Crowley, 113 U. S. 709; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 350-359; Southern R. R. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400; Conway v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; 1 Sutherland's Stat. Const. (2d

ST. L. & IRON MTN. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ed.), p. 366; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S.
79.
The act is arbitrary and unreasonable and repugnant
to-the due process clause of ยง 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; C., M. & St. P. R. R. v. Tompkins,
176 U-. S. 167; Mo. Pac. R. R. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196;
Washington v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; L. & A. R. R. v.
State, 85 Arkansas, 12.
Mr. Henry M. Armistead, with whom Mr. Ashley Cockrill, Mr. Wallace Davis, Mr. Hamilton Moses, Mr. W. D.
Jackson and Mr. Gus K. Jones were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court..
An act of the Stute of Arkansas, entitled "An act for
the better protection and safety of the public," provides as
follows:
"Section 1. That no railroad company or corporation
owning or operating any yards or terminals in the cities
within this State, where switching, pushing or transferring
of cars are made across public crossings within the city
limits of the cities, shall operate their switch crew or crews
with less than one engineer, a fireman, a foreman and
three helpers.
"Section 2. It being the purpose of this act to require
all railroad companies or corporations who operate any
yards or terminals within this State who do switching,
pushing or transferring of 'cars across public crossings
within the city limits of the cities to operate said switch
crew or crews with not less than one engineer, a fireman, a
foreman and three helpers, but nothing in this act shall be
so construed as to prevent any railroad company or cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

poration from adding to or increasing their switch crew or
crews beyond the number set out in this act.
"Section 3. The provisions of this act shall only apply
to cities of the first and second class, and shall not apply
to railroad companies or corporations operating railroads
less than one hundred miles in length.
"Section 4. Any railroad company or corporation
violating the provisions of this act shall be fined for each
separate offense not less than fifty dollars, and each crew
so illegally operated shall constitute a separate offense."
The railroad company violated the terms of the statute
for a day in the City of Hot Springs, and being convicted
thereof was sentenced to pay the minimum fine imposed
by the statute. The judgment which was entered upon
the sentence was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. This writ of error was then granted.
The railroad company contends that the statute violates
(1) the due process and equality clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
(2) that it operates as an interference with interstate commerce and (3) prevents a contest of its validity by the
excess of its penalties. Of the last ground it may be immediately said that it is without merit.
The other grounds are in effect disposed of by prior
decisions.
In the case of Chicago, Rock Island & Pac. Ry. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453, a statute of Arkansas was considered
which required freight trains to be equipped with crews
consisting of an engineer, a foreman, a conductor, and
three brakemen, "regardless of any modern equipment or
automatic couplings and air brakes. . . ." The statute did not apply to railroads whose line or lines did not
exceed fifty miles in length, nor to any railroad, regardless
of length of its line, where the freight train should consist
of less than twenty-five cars. The statute was sustained
on the authority of prior cases against charges of conflict

ST. L. & IRON MTN. RY. v. ARKANSAS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the Fourteenth Amendment and the commerce
clause of the Constitution. We need not cite the cases
relied on or repeat the argument of the court. In that
case, as in this, there was controversy in the testimony
and the contentions of the parties as to the necessity of
the statute. It was held, however, that the controversy
did not establish that the statute was an arbitrary exercise
of power. Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, this day decided ante, p. 510.
A distinction is asserted between that case and this and
it is urged that the operation of freight trains of more
than twenty-five cars on the trunk lines may require
different provision than the movement of switching
operations within terminals. But the basis of both is
safety to the public though the urgency in one may not
be as great as the urgency in the other.
A more serious objection is that certain terminal companies, one at the City of Helena and one at Fort Smith,
do switching for certain connecting trunk lines and yet,
by reason of their length being less than one hundred miles,
are not covered by the act. Indeed, it is said that one of
them, that at Fort Smith, does switching over some of the
same crossings that plaintiff in error does. The distinction
seems arbitrary if we regard only its letter, but there may
have been considerations which determined it, and the
record does not show the contrary. We have recognized
the impossibility of legislation being all-comprehensive
and that there may be practical groupings of objects
which will as a whole fairly present a class of itself, although there may be exceptions in which the evil aimed
at is deemed not so flagrant. Armour & Co. v. North
Dakota, ante, p. 510; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 382,
383.
Judgment affirmed.

