OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

the Supreme Court of the State. The court had decided
in prior cases that the State was not a party to the contest
(Cunningham v. Crowley, 51 California, 128, 133); that the
contest decided only the rights of the opposing parties
(Berry v. Cammet, 44 California, 347; Polk v. Sleeper,
supra).
The judgment undoubtedly is conclusive between the
parties, determines their rights, as between themselves,
and establishes the privilege to purchase the lands acquired by -the prior application, even against the State
"so long as the statute remained in force," to use the language of Hinckley v. Fowler, supra. This explanation
may be given of all the cases cited by plaintiffs in error
upon the effect of the judgment.' As long as the statute
existed, rights could be acquired under it. Upon its
repeal or limitation such opportunity was taken away.
Judgment affirmed.

CARNEGIE STEEL COMPANY v. UNITED- STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 171. Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Ability to perform a contract is of its very essenee, and delay resulting
from absence of such ability is not due to unavoidable causes .such
as fires, storms, labor strikes, actions of the United States, etc.,
as enumerated in the contract involved in this action.
The fact that a contractor engaging to deliver armor plate of specified
qualifications as to thickness, hardness, etc., was delayed by un'Cadierque v. Duran, 49 California, 356; Christman v. Brainerd, 51
California, 534; Wright v. Laugenour, 55 California, 280; Dillon v.
Saloude, 768 California, 267; Cushing v. Keslar, 68 California, 473;
Garfield v. Wilson, 74 California, 175; Anthony v. Jilson,83 California,
296, 299-:3(0; Goldberg v. Thompson, 96 California, 117.

CARNEGIE STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

157

Argument for Appellant.

foreseen difficulties in the then -new art of mar'ufacturing does not
excuse performance if such delays were not within the excepted
reasons for delay.
49 Ct. Cl. 391, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for armor plate with the United States and the right of
the contractor to recover sums withheld for delay in
completion of the contract, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Hayden for appellant.:
The company was not chargeable with the delay that
occurred in the delivery of the armor or liable for the sum
that the United States deducted as liquidated damages.
The first proviso in article 8 of the contract cannot be
so interpreted as to allow the Department to refuse to
pay the sum in dispute.
The contract was drawn by the Bureau of Ordnance,
and any language of doubtful meaning contained in it
should be given an interpretation favorable to the company, rather than one favorable to the Ordnance Department. Noonan v. Bradley, 9 Wall. 394, citing Mayer v.
Isaac, 6 Mees. & W. 612; Garri'son v. United States, 7
Wall. 668; Orient Ins. Co. v. Wright, 1 Wall. 456.
The proviso relates to the forfeiture by the company of
part of the sum that the Department agreed to pay for
the armor actually furnished. Clauses of contracts and
of statutes relating to forfeiture invariably receive the
one of two or more possible interpretations which is most
favorable to the party against whom the forefeiture is
asserted. Phila., Wilm. & Balt. R. R. v. Howard, 13
How. 307, 340; N. Y. Indians :. United States, 170 U. S.
1, 25.
Even in cases growing out of contracts of the United
States, a penal clause, or one providing for the deduction
of liquidated damages, is not to be given a liberal construction in favor of the Government.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

240 U. S.

Where the meaning of an instrument 'or statute is obscure and the language employed is a proper subject for
interpretation, courts will give effect to every provision
and word and will hot treat any part of it as meaningless
or nugatory, unless its provisions are in such hopeless
conflict they cannot be reconciled. Philadelphiav. River
Froqnt R. R., 133 Pa.. St. 134.
.The proviso does not purport to be complete in itself
and on its face bears evidence of its incompleteness. The
doctrine "expressio unius est exclusio alterlus" is not to
be followed in determining the true intent and meaning
of a proviso of this nature. United States v. Barnes, 222
U. S. 513.
If the law required a strict and literal construction of
the proviso in question, instead of the reverse, it would
not justify the interpretation that the court placed upon
it, for as we have seen, that is neither strict or literal, but
really a distortion of the proviso.
The court's interpretation cannot be defended on the
ground that it was reasonable, for it was not. Minis v.
United States, 15 Pet. 423; White v. United States, 191
U. S. 545; Weiss v. Swift, 36 Pa. Sup. 376.
The Ordnance Department and the accounting officers,
and the court also, proceeded with the idea that the proviso was a fit subject for the application of the maxim
"expressio unius est exclusio alterius." But in the present
instance the facts were not such as fo warrant an attempt
to apply it.
The delay in this case should be classed as an unavoidable cause, within the meaning of the provision in the contract. Broom's Leg. Max., 8th ed., 506; Id., 515; Id.,
7th ed., 589.
This is not a case for the application of the doctrine of
e3usdem generis. United States v. M-escall, 215 U. S. 26;
Chic., Mil. &c. Ry. v. Hoyt, 149 U. S. 1, 14; Endlich,
Inter. Stat., ยง 112; McReynolds v.'People, 23OWIllinois, 623 i

CARNEGIE STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

159

Argument for the United States.

26 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law, 2d ed., p. 610; Brown v. Corbin,
40 Minnesota, 508.
Delay in the performance of a contract may result from
a cause, which, though unavoidable, and unavoidable in
the sense in which that term is used in the contract, would
not render performance impossible.
The credit allowed by the Chief of Ordnance for delay
caused by act of the United States did not bar the company from asserting in court its right to further credit for
the cause assign'd or for any other cause of delay on account of which the Chief of Ordnance refused to allow
any. credit, supposing that he was not authorized to do so.
Milne v. United States, 45 Ct. Cls. 314, 321, does not apply,
and see Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S. 3.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States:
The causes of delay indicated in the contract did not
include ignorance or lack of scientific knowledge on the
part of appellant. The kind of delay excusable was one
which must have arisen from some .cause having no essential relation to the contract but as evidenced by the
descriptive words therein.
An obstacle, merely because it was unforeseen, does.
not bring a delay resulting therefrom within the category
of delays, such as are causedby the act of God, strikes, etc.
If unexpected impediments lie in the way, and a loss
must ensue, the loss must fall where the contract places
it. If the parties have made no provision for a dispensation, the rule of law gives none. It does not allow a contract fairly made. to be annulled, and it does not permit
to be interpolated what the parties themselves have not
stipulated. Hanthorn.v. Quinn, 69 Pac. Rep. 817; The
Harriman, 9 Wall. 161; Railroad v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255;
Smoot v. United States, 15 Wall. 36, 46; Jacksonville &c.
Ry. v. Hooper, 160 U. S. 514, 527; Simpson v. United

"160

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

States, 172 U. S. 372; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S.
588, 602; Satterlee v. United States, 30 Ct. Cls. 31, 33, 50;
Rowe v. Peabody, 93 N. E. Rep. 604; Marsh v. Johnston,
109 N. Y. Supp. 1104; Lorillard v. Clyde, 142 N. Y. 456;
Buffalo Co, v. Bellevue Co., 165 N. Y. 247; Chicago R. R. v.
Sawyer, 69 Illinois, 285; Beach on Modern Law of Contracts, ยง 217; Chitty on Contracts, 272; Day v. United
States, 48 Ct. Cls. 128.
Since the delay. did not come within the descriptive
terms of the contract relative to the causes for which
delays would be excusable the lower court was right.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Petition in the Court of Claims for the recovery of
$8,595.35, alleged to be due claimant as a balance of the
price of armor plate furnished the Government under a
contract between it and claimant.
The contract is an elaborate one and by it claimant
engaged to manufacture for the Ordnance Department
armor plates of a certain designated thickness in conformity with instructions, specifications and drawings
attached to and made a part of the contract. And claimant agreed to provide certain of the 18-inch plates for
the purpose of the ballistic test prescribed by the specifications, and that such plates when subjected to the ballistic
test -should fulfill certain requirements set forth in the
specifications. The dates of delivery were to be on or
before Seltember 7, 1911, and November 7, 1911, and
the place of delivery the Bethlehem Steel Company,
South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
The Government engaged to receive the plates when
manufactured, tested and approved as provided, and
make payment for them in installments from time to
time as the manufacture of the armor and material pro-

CARNEGIE STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

gressed and after delivery. In the event of the claimant
failing to prosecute the manufacture of the armor and
material properly or to complete delivery on or before the
dates named in the contract, the Chief of Ordnance might
complete such manufacture at the expense of claimant,
charging it with the cost thereof in excess of the contract
price; "or else (2) waive the time limit named in the
contract and permit the claimant to complete the delivery of the armor and material within a reasonable
time, and thereupon deduct from the sum stipulated
to be paid the claimant for all of the armor and material,
as liquidated damages, a sum equal to one-thirtieth of one
per centum of the contract price of all armor and material
remaining undelivered on November 7,1911, for each day of
delay in its delivery; Provided, however, that in computing
the amount of any such deduction, the claimant should
be given credit for delays occurring during the performance
of the contract, which the Chief of Ordnance might determine to have been due 'to unavoidable causes, such
as fires, storms, labor strikes, actions of the United States
and so forth,' and that the date of completion of the delivery, for the purposes of the final settlement between
the parties, should be a date to be ascertained by deducting, from the whole period between the signing of
.the contract and the date of the actual delivery, all delays
which were found to have been due to unavoidable causes."
It is alleged that claimant encountered difficulties
which were unforeseen by both parties when the contract
was made, and were then unforeseeable, and in consequence thereof the delivery of the armor and pertaining
material was delayed unavoidably.
That prior to the manufacture of the armor no facehardened armor 18 inches in thickness had been manufactured in this or any foreign country and no information
with respect to the process or processes to be employed
in its manufacture was obtainable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

That for the purpose of learning what manner of treatment or face-hardening process should be applied to the
18-inch plates, and in order that they might attain the
highest degree of efficiency possible and meet all the requirements of the specifications, claimant completed one of
the plates, applying to it a treatment or face-hardening
process deduced from the formula which claimant and
every other manufacturer of armor plate in this and every
foreign country had followed in the manufacture of armor
plate and which was recognized by authorities on the
subject as the one which would give the best results.
That upon its completion the plate was, on April 19,
1911, subjected to the ballistic test and it met the requirements of the specifications. Thereupon claimant
proceeded to complete all of the plates, certain of which
were selected for the purpose of the ballistic test and failed
to fulfill the requirements of the specifications. Other
plates were selected and failed. Thereupon claimant,
with all due diligence and dispatch, made or caused to be
made by metallurgical experts exhaustive tests and experiments, and it was ascertained that in order to pass
the test required by the Ordnance Department the plates
must possess certain metallurgical qualities or conditions
which, up to that time, were unknown to any one and
the necessity for which was not foreseeable when the
contract was made. In conducting the test it was necessary to use plates of full size and the tests were conducted
with all due diligence and dispatch. From the plates thus
tested the Ordnance Department selected a third plate
which was tested January 19 and 24, 1912, and was found
to fulfill the requirements of the specifications. Claimant
in due course finished all of the plates which the contract
called for and they were approved and delivered as in. the
manner prescribed.
It is alleged that by reason of the circumstances de-

CARNEGIE STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

163

Opinion of the Court.

tailed there were delays in the delivery' of the plates and
that the delays were due to causes which were unavoidable
within the meaning of the contract.
On account of the delays, however, the Ordnance Department proposed to deduct from the contract price
of the armor and pertaining material the sum of $8,598.15
as liquidated damages on account of a portion of the delay.
Claimant made protest, asserting that the delays wAre
due to causes provided for in articles 4 and 8 of the contract.
By article 4 it was provided that in case of failure of
claimant to deliver any or all of the armor contracted
for there would be deducted from any payment to be
made to claimant 1/30 of 1% of the contract price of all
of the armor remaining undelivered for each and every
day of delay in the completion of the contract, not, however, by way of penalty but as liquidated damages.
It was, however, provided in article 8 of the contract
that the Chief of Ordnance in case of delay in the delivery
of the armor as provided in article 1 of the contract, instead of completing the manufacture or delivery of the
material at the expense of claimant, might waive the
time limit and deduct from any payment due or to become due the liquidated damages, if any, provided for in
article 4: "Provided, however, that in making final settlement based upon the date of completion of the delivery,
the party of the first part [claimant] shall receive credit.
for such delays occurring during the performance of the
contract as the Chief of Ordnance may determine to
have been due to unavoidable causes, such as fires, storms,
labor strikes, action of the United -States, etc., and the
date of completion shall be gonsidered for the purposes
of final settlement, as the date of the actual completion'
of the delivery less the delays due to unavoidable causes;
but none. of the above. causes shallt constitute a basis for
an action against the United States for damages."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The Government filed a demurrer to the petition. It
was sustained as to $7,564.08 of the amount sued for and
overruled as to $1,031.08. The damages on account of
delay to the amount of the latter sum the court found was
due to the Government's delay. The other sum, that is
$7,564.08, the court attributed to the claimant, the court
saying, through Chief Justice Campbell, that "the difficulties under which claimant labored were not due to
'unavoidable causes' within the meaning of those terms in
the contract and, though unforeseen, did not render the
performance impossible;" and added: "The court cannot
make a different contract from that which the parties
made for themselves. The Harriman, 9 Wall. 161, 172;
Sun Printing & Publishing Ass'n v. Moore, 183 U. S.
642; Satterlee's Case, 30 Ct. Cis. 31; Pacific Hardware Co.
v. United States, 48 Ct. Cls. 399."
It will be observed that the point in the case is a short
one. It is whether the causes of delay alleged in the petition were unavoidable or were of the character described
in the contract, that is, "such as fires, storms, labor strikes,
action of the United States, etc." The contention that
the alleged causes can be assigned to such category creates
some surprise. It would seem that the very essence of the
promise of a contract to deliver articles is ability to procure or make them. But claimant says its ignorance was
not peculiar, that it Was shared by the world and no one
knew that the process adequate to produce 14-inch armor
plate would not produce 18-inch armor plate. Yet claimant shows that its own experiments demonstrated the
inadequacy of the accepted formula. A successful process
was therefore foreseeable and discoverable. And it would
seem to have been an obvious prudence to have preceded
manufacture, if not engagement, by experiment rather
than risk failure and delay and their consequent penalties by extending an old formula to a new condition.

CARNEGIE STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

But even if this cannot be asserted, the case falls within
The Harriman,supra, where it is said that "the principle
deducible from the authorities is that if what is agreed to
be done is possible and lawful, it must be done. Difficulty
or improbability of accomplishing the undertaking will
not avail defendant. It must be shown that the thing
cannot by.any means be effected. Nothing short of this
will excuse performance."
And it was held in Sun PrintingAss'n v. Moore, supra,
that "it was a well-settled rule of law-that if a party by
his contract charges himself with an obligation possible to
be performed, he must make it good, unless its performance is rendered impossible by the act of God, the law or
the other party. Unforeseen difficulties, however great,
will not excuse him." Cases were cited, and it was
said the principle was sustained by many adjudications.
It was said, however, in The Harriman,9 Wall. 161,172,
that "the answer to the objection of hardship in all such
might have been guarded against by a
cases is that -it
proper stipulation," and such a stipulation is relied on in
the case at bar. Ignorance of the scientific process necessary for face-hardening 18-inch armor pl~te is asserted to
be an unavoidable cause of the character of the enumeration of article 8 of the contract, that is, "such as fires,
storms, labor strikes, action of the United States, etc."
The contention is that it is the same "genus or kind,"
because (1) it was not foreseeable wtien the contract- was
made; (2) was not the result of any act or neglect on the
part of claimant; (3) was not a cause the company could
prevent. - What we have already said answers these contentions. Ability to perform a contract is of its very
essence. It would have no sense or incentive, no assurance of fulfillment, otherwise; and a delay resulting from
the absence of such ability is not of the same kind enumerated in the contract--is nota cause extraneous to it and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

independent of the engagements and exertions of the
parties.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no

part in the consider-

ation and decision of this case.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. GUARDIAN TRUST COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 85. Argued December 13, 14, 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
A reorganization scheme adopted upon the foreclosure of a mortgage
of a railroad company and a purchase thereunder which provides
substantially for the stockholders of the company, but which makes
inadequate provision for its unsecured creditors, cannot be sustained;
and in this case, held, that the purchaser was chargeable with such
unsecured debts. Northern Pacific Ry. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482.
One owning both stock and floating debt of a company whose property
is under foreclosure and who assents to a scheme of reorganization
which does not on its face show that it unduly provides for the stockholders and does not adequately provide for the unsecured creditors
is not precluded from subsequently claiming that for such reason
the property is still chargeable after the sale with his unsecured
debt.
On the facts of this case, held, that the party attacking a reorganization scheme as not adequately protecting unsecured creditors while
providing for stockholders was not barred by laches.
Even though reorganization schemes must be framed so as to-induce
parties interested to come in and furnish fresh money, and courts
should avoid artificial scruples in considering such arrangements,
substantial justice must be done and well settled rules of equity
must not be transgressed.
210 Fed. Rep. 696, affirmed.

