OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

applied, if ever, to a disposition that operates upon the
great mass of the donor's estate and that takes effect only
,upon his death, at least so far as concerns the persons before this court, the donor's widow and sons. Lines's Estate, 155 Pa. St. 378.
It is suggested that there was a subordinate error in
not deducting the amount of the Illinois inheritance tax.
But this appears not to have been assigned in the appeal
to the Suprvme Court of the State, and therefore we need
not inquire whether there was any constitutional obstacle
to the State of Wisconsin adopting the gross fund disposed
of rather than the net amount received as the measure
of the tax.
Judgment affirmed.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. PRESCOTT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 358.

Argued February 23, .1916.-Decided April 10, 1916.

Whether the contract based on a bill of lading of an interstate shipment
issued pursuant to the Act to Regulate Commerce has been discharged is a Federal question.
Transportation, as regulated by the Act to Regulate Commerce, includes the services of a connecting carrier as warehouseman of the
goods after arrival at point of destination and'before actual delivery
to the consignee.
Retention by the carrier of part of an interstate shipment, after arrival at destination, notice to, and payment of the freight by, the
consignee, held in this case to be a terminal service forming part of
the transportation in the sense of, and governed by,'the Act to Regulate Commerce.
With respect to service governed by the Act to Regulate Commerce,
the rule that both carrier and shipper are bound by, and cannot
alter, the terms of service as fixed by the filed regulations, applies

SOUTHERN RY. v. PRESCOTT.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not only to rates but also to other stipulations relating to services
and facilities within the purview of the act, including liability as
warehouseman after arrival of the goods at destination and before
removal by the consignee.
The contract of a bill of lading of an interstate shipment is still in
force until actual delivery to the consignee; and held that the mere
giving of a receipt by the consignee and payment of freight but
leaving the goods with the carrier did not, in this case, amount to
actual delivery and affect the liability of the carrier under the stipulations as to liability contained in the bill of lading.
The measure of liability of a carrier of an interstate shipment under
the bill of lading issued pursuant to the Act to Regulate Commerce
is a Federal question and the obligation is to be governed under
the Act by uniform rule in the place of the diverse requirements
of state legislation and decisions; nor is the question less a Federal
one because resolved by application of general principles of common
law.
Under a stipulation in a bill of lading of an interstate shipment that
the carrier shall be liable, as warehouseman only, for goods after
arrival at destination and. not removed within the specified time,
the carrier is liable only for negligence; and if the loss admittedly
occurs by fire the burden is on the plaintiff to prove negligence,
notwithstanding the rule may be different under state law.
99 So. Car. 422, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of an interstate
carrier as warehouseman of goods after arrival at destination, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank G. Tompkins, with whom Mr. Benjamin L.
Abney was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. Willard Ragsdale, with whom Mr. W. H. Townsend and Mr. J. William Thurmond were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court,
This action was brought to recover for the loss of nine
boxes of shoes which were destroyed by fire, on July 4,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

1913, while in the possession of the Southern Railway
Company, plaintiff in error. These boxes were part of a
lot' of thirteen boxes which had been shipped on June 21,
1913, at Petersburg, Virginia, by the Seaboard Air Line
Railway and connections, consigned to W. E. Prescott,
defendant in error, at Edgefield, South Carolina, and had
arrived at Edgefield over the line of the Southern Railway
Company on June 23, 1913. The plaintiff alleged three
causes of action against the latter Company (1) as common carrier (2) as warehouseman and (3) for penalty
because of failure to adjust and pay the claim, after
notice, as provided by law. The answer of the Railway
Company, with a general denial, set up that the shipment
was interstate and governed by the Act to Regulate Commerce. At the close of the plaintiff's case, the Railway
Company moved for a non-suit and decision was reserved.
The Railway Company then put in evidence the tariff
rules, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
which governed the shipment. These provided that the
reduced rates specified would "apply on property shipped
subject to the condition of carrier's bill of lading," and
that otherwise there would be an increased charge, as
stated. One of the stipulations of the bill of lading was
that "property not removed by the party entitled to
receive it within forty-eight hours (exclusive of legal.
holidays) after notice of its arrival" might be kept in
car, depot or warehouse, "subject to reasonable charge
for storage and to carrier's responsibility as warehouseman only." The freight bill contained the provision:
"Demurrage and storage will be assessed-at the expiration
of the free time provided by the rules of this Company."
The agent for the Railway Company (confirming what
had been said by the plaintiff's witness) testified that
after notice of the.arrival of the goods, the consignee had
paid the entire freight charges, that he (the company's
agent) "had-accepted the freight" and had the consignee's

SOUTHERN RY. v. PRESCOTT.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"receipt for the goods." Four boxes were then taken
away and the rest were permitted to remain to meet the
consignee's convenience in removal. The agent further
testified. "Q. What was the agreement with reference
to holding those goods? A. He just wanted to know if it
would be agreeable to leave them there, and I said it would
be. Q. You did not make any charges for storing them?
A. No, sir. Q. And did not expect him to pay any? No,
sir." The consignee's representative had testified that,
while nothing had been said on the point, he expected to
pay storage.
At the close of the testimony, the plaintiff withdrew his
causes of action against the defendant as common carrier
and for the penalty, and the case went to the jury solely
with respect to the liability of the defendant as warehouseman. The Railway Company moved for a direction
of a verdict upon the ground that, under the Federal
Act and the tariff regulations, the bill of lading defined the
rights of the parties. The motion was denied. The trial
court submitted to the jury the question of liability for
the care of the goods as one arising under the state law
which cast upon the defendant the burden of showing
thut it was not negligent. The position of the Railway
Company, as shown by its requests for instructions which
were denied, was .that the shipment had not lost its interstate character; that the provisions of the bill of lading
were controlling; that the defendant's liability as warehouseman was governed by Federal law; and that the
burden was upon the plaintiff to show negligence as a basis
for recovery.
Judgment upon a verdict in favor of the plaintiff was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 99 So. Car.
422. With respect to the Federal question, the court said:
"The defendant claims that inasmuch as this is an interstate shipment, the Federal statute governs. The question does not legitimately arise in this case for the reason

oCTOBER TERM. 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

that the appellant moved for a non-suit on the ground that
'the evidence here shows that this freight arrived here
on the 23rd of June and that the freight was paid and
receipted for by the agent of Dr. Prescott; he came for it
and paid the freight and I submit that where a common
carrier delivered freight in good order, and has it in its
depot and paid for then its liability as a common carrier
ceases.' The court reserved its decision on that question
and before it was announced, the plaintiff withdrew the
cause of action as common carrier, and also the cause of
action for the penalty. It, therefore, being conceded in
the Circuit Court that the contract of carriage was ended
and the appellant held the goods by a separate contract,
the question as to appellant's liability as common carrier
and the Federal statute under which it might have arisen
is not before this court and the only question argued
which we can consider is the question as to warehouseman." The court then applied the rule of liability as
defined by the state law. Id., p. 424. And this writ of
error has been prosecuted.
As the shipment was interstate, and the bill of lading was
issued pursuant to the Federal Act, the question whether
the contract thus set forth had been discharged was necessarily a Federal question. The reference, above quoted,
to the concession in the trial court cannot be taken to
mean that this Federal question was not raised, for, as we
have seen, it was distinctly presented and pressed; but we
assume that the ruling, in substance, was that there was
no dispute as to the fact that the goods had arrived, that
the coisignee had paid the freight and. signed a receipt
for the goods, and that the nine boxes had remained in the
possession of the carrier under the permission given, as
testified, by the carrier's agent. The question is whether
this admitted transaction had the legal effect of discharging the contract governed by Federal law and of creating
a new obligation governed by state law.

SOUTHERN RY. v. PRESCOTT.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By the Act to Regulate Commerce (ยง 1) the 'transportation' it regulates is defined as including "all services in
connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage,
and handling of property transported." It is made the
duty of the carrier "to provide . . . such transportation -upon reasonable request. therefor." All charges
made for "any service" rendered in such transportation
must be "just and reasonable." Section 6 requires that
the carrier's schedules, printed as provided, "shall contain the classification of freight in force, and shall also
state separately all terminal charges, storage charges,
icing charges, 'and all other charges which the Commission
may require, all privileges or facilities granted or allowed
and any rules or regulations which in any wise change,
affect, or determine any part or the aggregate of such aforesaid rates, fares, and charges, or the value of the service
rendered to the passenger, shipper, or consignee." And
it is further provided, in the same section, that no carrier
shall "extend to any shipper or person any priVileges or
facilities in the transportation "-that is. as defined"except such as are specified in such tariffs." The bill of
lading in accordance with the published regulations provided that "every service" tZ be performed under it, including the service of the connecting or terminal carrier,
should be subject to the conditions specified, and among
these was the express condition governing the Company's
responsibility as warehouseman for property not removed
within forty-eight hours after notice of arrival. Such a
retention of the goods was undoubtedly a Lrrminal service
forming a part of the 'transportation' in the sense of the
Federal Act and governed by that Act. Thus, in the case
of C., C., C. & St. L. Railway Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S.
588, it was held, with respect to goods lost through the
negligence of the terminal carrier while in possession as
warehouseman under this stipulation, that the provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

of the bill of lading limiting liability to the declared value
of the goods was applicable. The court deemed it to be
evident "that Congress recognized that the duty of carriers to the public included the performance of a variety
of services that, according to the theory of the common
law, were separable from the carrier's service as carrier,
and, in order to prevent overcharges and discriminations
from being made under the pretext of performing such
additional services, it enacted that so far as interstate
carriers by rail were concerned the entire body of such
services should be included together under the single term
'transportation' and subjected to the provisions of the
Act respecting reasonable rates and the like." It is also
clear that with respect to the service governed by the
Federal statute the parties were not at liberty to alter
the terms of the service as fixed by the filed regulations.
This has repeatedly been held with respect to 'ates (Tex.
& Pac. Rwy. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Kansas Southern
Rwy. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 652; Boston & Maine R. R. v.
Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, 112; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94), and the established principle applies
equally to any stipulation attempting to alter the provisions as fixed by the published rules relating to any of the
services within the purview of the Act. Chicago & Alton
R. R. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155, 166; Atchison &c. Ry. V.
Robinson, 233 U. S. 173, 181. This is the plain purpose of
the statute in order to shut the door to all contrivances
in violation of its provisions against preferences and discriminations. No carrier may extend "any privileges or
facilities," save as these have been duly specified. And as
the terminal services incident to an interstate shipment
are within the Federal Act, and the conditions of liability
while the goods are retained after notice of arrival are
stipulated in the bill of lading under the filed regulations,
the conditions thus fixed are controlling and the parties
cannot substitute therefor a special agreement.

SOUTHERN RY. v. PRESCOTT.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In determining, in this view, whether the contract had
been discharged, and the case removed from the operation
of the Fed .ral Act, regard must of course be had to the
substance of the transaction. The question is not one of
form, but of actuality. Texas & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine
Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111, 126; Louisiana R. R. Comm. v.
Tex. & Pac.Rwy., 229 U. S. 336, 311; Illinois Central R. R.
v. Louisiana R. R. Comm., 236 U. S. 157,163; Pennsylvania
R. R. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456, 458. It is apparent
that there had been no actual delivery of the nine boxes.
The payment of the freight had no greater efficacy than if
it had been made in advance of the transportation. The
giving of a receipt for the goods by the consignee did not
alter the fact that they were still held by the Railway
Company awaiting actual delivery. The transaction at
most could not be deemed to accomplish more than if the
parties had agreed that until such delivery the goods
should be held under a special contract-in lieu of the
prescribed conditions, and this they could not effect without violating. the Act which governed the shipment. It
could not be said, for example, that while under the filed
regulations the Railway Company was to make a "reasonable charge for storage" pending delivery that it could
agree with a particular shipper, or consignee, to hold
gratuitously; nor could it alter the terns of its responsibility while the goods remained undelivered. The actual
service in holding the goods continued and we must look
to the bill of lading to determine the legal obligation
attaching to that service.
Viewing the contract set forth in the bill of lading as
still in force, the measure of liability under it must also
be regarded as a Federal question. As it has often been
said, the statutory provisions manifest the intent of
Congress that the obligation of the carrier with respect
to the services within the purview of the statute shall be
governed by uniform rule in the place of the diverse re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

quirements of state legislation and decisions. Adams
Exp. Company v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 506, 509, 510;
M., K. & T. Rwy. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657, 672; Boston
& Maine R. R. v. Hooker, supra; M., K. & T. Rwy. v.
Harris,234 U. S. 412, 420; CharlestoA &c. R. R. v. VarnVille Furniture Co., 237 U. S. 597, 603; C., C., C. & St. L.
Ry. v. Dettlebach, supra;N. Y., P. & N. R. R. v. Peninsula
Exchange, 240 U. S. 34. And the question as to the responsibility under the bill of lading is none the less a
Federal one because it must be resolved by the application
of general principles of the common law. Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger,supra;M., K. & T. Rwy. Co. v. Harriman,
supra. It was explicitly provided that in case the property was not removed within the specified time it should
be kept subject to liability "as warehouseman only."
The Railway Company was therefore liable only in case
of negligence. The plaintiff, asserting neglect, had the
burden of establishing it. This burden did not shift.
As it is the duty of the warehouseman to deliver upon
proper demand, his failure to do so, without excuse, has
been regarded as making a prima facie case of negligence.
If, however, it appears that the loss is due to fire, that
fact in itself, in the absence of circumstances permitting
the inference of lack of reasonable precautions, does not
suffice to show neglect, and the plaintiff having the affirmative of the issue must go forward with the evidence.
Cau v.Tex. & Pac. Rwy., 194 U. S. 427, 432; Transportation Company v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129, 135; DeGrau v.
Wilson, 17 Fed. Rep. 698, 700, 701, affirmed, 22 Fed.
-Rep. 560; Clafin v. Meyer, 75 N. Y. 260., 262, 263; Whitworth v, Erie Ry., 87 N. Y. 413, 419, 420; Draper v. D. &
H. C. Co., 118 N. Y. 118, 122, 123; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry.
v. Bone, 52 Arkansas, 26; Lyman v. Southern Railway,
132 No. Car. 721; Lancaster Mills v. Merchants' Co.,
89 Tennessee, 1; National Line S. S. Co. v. Smart, 107
Pa. St. 492; Denton v. C., R. I. & P. R. R., 52 Iowa, 161;

SOUTHERN RY. v. PRESCOTT.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cox v. Central Vermont R. R., 170 Massachusetts, 129;
Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. Co. v. Hughes, 94 Mississippi,
242; 24 Am. Dec. 150-153, note; 22 L. R. A. (N. S.),
note 975. In the 'present case, it is undisputed that the
loss was due to fire which destroyed the Company's warehouse with its contents including the property in question.
The fire occurred in the early morning when the depot
and warehouse were closed. -The cause of the fire did
not appear, and there was nothing in the circumstances
to indicate neglect on the part of the Railway Company.
The trial court denied the motion for a direction of a
verdict and charged the jury that "the burden of showing
that there was no negligence is on the defendant." Applying the rule established by the state decisions (Brunson v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R., 76 So. Car. 9; Fleischman
v. Southern Railway, 76 So. Car. 237; see also Wardlaw v.
S. C. R. R., 11 Rich. 337), the Supreme Court of the
State overruled the defendant's objection and sustained
the judgment. 99 So. Car. 424. It has been recognized
by the state court, as was said in the Fleischman Case,
supra, that the rule it applies is a. "somewhat exceptional
rule" to which the court adheres "notwithstanding the
great number of opposing authorities in other jurisdictions." 76 So. Car. 248.
For the reasons we have stated, we think that the
obligation of the Railway Company was not governed
by the state law and that, in this view, the exceptions
of the plaintiff in error were well taken.
Judgment reversed.

