SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KENNEY.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

road stretcning across the same prairie, was not aware of
this prior railroad occupation."
We have not stopped to consider an intimation contained in the argument that the court erred in its finding
of fact as to the state of construction of the road at the
time the entry by Barlow was made, because without at all
questioning our power to review the ,facts in so far as necessary to dispose of the Federal contention, we consider
the suggestion wholly without merit, first, because we
would not in any event disregard the finding of fact of
the court below except upon conviction of clear error
committed, for which the record here affords no ground
whatever; and second, because as the finding of the court
below was also the finding of the trial court, the request
invites us to disregard the findings of both courts on a
matter of fact in the absence of any ground for a conviction that error of fact was clearly committed.
Affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. KENNEY,
ALIAS
OF CAPEHART,
ADMINISTRATOR
EASON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 269.

Argued March 10, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

The Federal Employers' Liability Act, in so far as it deals with the
subjects to which it relates, is paramount and exclusive, and recovery
under it can be had only in the mode prescribed, and by and for the
persons in whose favor it creates and bestows a right of action.
T'htk Federal Employers' Liability Act contains no definition of- who
are to constitute the next of kin to whom it grants a right of recovery,

and the absence of such definition indicates the purpose of Congress
to leave the determination of that question to the state law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

There is no merit in the contention that Congress intended that the
term "next of ki" was used in the Employers' Liability Act in
its common-law significance and as excluding all persons not included in that term under.the common law.
The ruling of the state court in this case that the next of kin of an
intestate, who was illegitimate, were his half brothers and sisters
'legitimately born of the same mother, excludes by implication the
possibility of an asserted father being the parent and person entitled
to recover under the Employers' Liability Act.
167 Nor. Car. 14, affirmed.

Tni facts, which involve the eonstruction and application of the Employers' Liability Acts of 1908 and 1910, and
the determination of who are the next of kin entitled to
maintain an action thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error:
The alleged beneficiaries, Sills Hardy, Joe Hardy and
Nettie Hardy, who are legitimate children of the mother of
the deceased employee, who was an illegitimate child, are
not the next of kin of such employee within the provisions
of ยง 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The surviving father of a deceased employee, who was an
illegitimate child, is the parent of such employee within
the provisions of said section of the Act.
If the alleged beneficiaries, Sills Hardy, Joe Hardy and
Nettie Hardy, are next of kin of the deceased employee,
they were not dependent upon such employee, as required
by said section.
Allegation and proof of the existence of beneficiaries, as
defined by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, are essential to a right to recover damages for the death of an
employee.
The expression," next of kin," as used in the Act, is to be
construed in the light of the common law.
At common law the words "parent," ' child," "next of.
kin," and words of similar import, were held to relate only
to those who are legitimate.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KENNEY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In construing the expression, "next of kin," as used in
the Employers' Liability Act, the application of the principle that words of kindred when used in a statute, relate
only to those who are legitimate, is not affected by state
legislation regulating the distribution of personal property.
Uniformity in the application of the Employers' Liability Act will be entirely destroyed if, the expression "next
of kin" is to be defined in accordance with the legislation
and judicial decisions of the various States.
If the surviving father of a deceased employee, who was
an illegitimate child, is the parent of such employee within
the provisions of ยง 1 of the act, plaintiff is not entitled to.
recover in this action, because the father of his intestate is
living;
Numerous authorities both state and federal are cited
in support of these contentions.
Mr. FrancisD. Winston, with whom Mr. J. H. Matthews
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The trial court on the verdict of a jury entered judgment
against the plaintiff in error for the sum of $800 for the
negligent killing of Capehart who was one of its employees,
and this writ of error is prosecuted to reverse thp action of
the court below affirming such judgment. (167 Nor. Car.
14.) At the time of his death Capehart was a minor and
was employed by the defendant company as a switchman.
The accident occurred in North Carolina on an interstate
freight train moving from a point in North Carolina to one
in Virginia. The suit to recover was specifically based
on the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, c. 149, as amended April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291,
c. 143, and as both parties concede that that act was
applicable, that subject may be put out of view.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The deceased was a natural or illegitimate child born in
North Carolina, and the next of kin for whose benefit the
administrator sued, he having been qualified at the alleged
domicile of the deceased in North Carolina, were three
minor children of the deceased's mother, the issue of a
marriage by her contracted after his birth, she the mother
being dead at the time of the accident. There was no
question in the court below as to non-liability because of
an absence of negligence, since as pointed out by the court
the sole contention pressed upon it for reversal was that
the damages for the death had been awarded to persons
who were not entitled to the recovery as next of kin Under
the act of Congress, even although they were the next of
kin by the law of the State. Thus the court said: "The
sole contention of the defendant requiring our consideration, is that the expression 'next of kin,' as used in ยง 1 of
this act [the act of Congress] is to be construed by the
common law, disregarding the state law defining those
words." After then quoting from the state statute on the
subject, the court further said: "It is very clear that in
North Carolina the two half brothers and the sister of the
intestate are his next of kin. It seems to us immaterial
whether it were formerly otherwise in this State, either by
statute or the common law before any statute. The question is, who was the 'next of kin' at the time of such death
in the State where the wrongful death occurred?" Proceeding to examine and decide this question, it was held
that next of kin for the purpose of the recovery under the
act of Congress were the next of kin as established by the
law of the State where the right to recover obtained. And
it is the correctness of this ruling which we are alone called
upon to consider, since despite the great number of assignments of error which are nmade, they all in last analysis
depend upon that question. We need not stop to review
the assignments to demonstrate this fact, since in argument they are all stated as embracing the solution of three

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KENNEY.
240 U. S.

493

Opinion of the Court.

inquiries, which as we shall see when we consider them,
will be virtually disposed of by deciding the single question
concerning the correctness of the ruling of the court below
as to the next of kin under the statute. The three questions
thus stated are in substanc as follows: First, whether the
minor children who under the law of North Carolina were
the next of kin of their natural or illegitimate brother
because of their common motherhood were the next of kin
under the act of Congress? Second, if in the absence of a
parent they were so, would the proof of the existence of an
asserted father of the deceased make such person his
parent within the act Of Congress, excluding the right of
the next of kin to recover the damages? Third, if the
minor brothers and sister were next of kin under the act of
Congress, had they such dependency on the deceased as
gave them any right to recover under the act?
We consider the questions separately.
1. There can be now no question that the act of Congress in so far as it deals with the subjects to which it
relates is paramount and exclusive. It is therefore not
disputable that recovery under the act can be had alone
in the mode and by and for the persons or class of persons
in whose favor the law creates and bestows a right of
action. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1;
Mich. Cent. R. R. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; Taylor v.
Taylor, 232 U. S. 363; Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233
U. S. 492, 501. But this is irrelevant, since the controversy
concerns only the meaning of the act which it is conceded,
when rightly interpreted, is entitled to exclusive operation.
Plainly the statute contains no definition of who are to
constitute the next of kin to whom a right of recovery is
granted. But as, speaking generally, under our dual system of government who are next of kin is determined by
the legislation of the various States to whose authority
that subject is normally committed, it would seem to be
clear that the absence of a definition in the act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

plainly indicates the purpose of Congress to leave the.
determination of that question to the state law. But it is
urged as next of kin was a term well known at common
law, -it is to be presumed that the words were used as having their common law significance and therefore as excluding all persons not included in the term under the common
law, meaning of course the law of England as it existed at
the time of the separation from the mother country.
Leaving aside the misapplication of the rule of construction relied upon, it is obvious that the contention amounts
to saying that Congress by the mere statement of a class,
that is, next of kin, without defining whom the class
embraces, must be assumed to have overthrown the local
law of the States and substituted another law for it, when
conceding that there was power in Congress to do so, it is
clear that no such extreme result could possibly be attributed to the act of Congress without express and unambiguous provisions rendering such conclusion necessary.
The truth of this view will be made at once additionally
apparent by considering the far-reaching consequence of
the proposition since if it be well founded, it would apply
equaHy to the other requirements of the statute-to the
provisions as to the surviving widow, the husband and
children, and to parents, thus for the purposes of the
enforcement of the act overthrowing the legislation of the
States on subjects of the most intimate domestic character
and substituting for it the common law as stereotyped at
the time of the separation. The argument that such result
must have been intended since it is to be assumed that
Congress contemplated uniformity, that is, that the next
of kin entitled to take under the statute should be uniformly applied in all the States, after all comes to saying
that it must be assumed that Congress intended to create a
uniformity on one subject by producing discord and want
of uniformity as to many others.
But we need go no further since the want of merit in the

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KENNEY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contention is fully demonstrated by authority. In Hutchinson Investment Co. v. Caldwell, 152 U. S. 65, the matter
under consideration was ยง 2269, Rev. Stat., giving to the
heirs. of a deceased preiemptor who had died before completing his entry the right to perfect the same, the statute
providing, "But the entry in such cases shall be made in
favor of the heirs of the deceased preemptor and a patent
thereon shall cause the title to inure to such heirs as if
their names had been specially mentioned." The controversy was whether the word heirs under the statute should
be taken in its common law meaning and therefore not to
give a right to complete the entry to illegitimate children
who had been recognized by their father, the preemptor,
and who were his heirs under the law of the State of Kansas where the land was situated and where the deceased
preemptor was domiciled. The court said: "We are
unable to concur with counsel for plaintiffs in error that the
intention should be ascribed to Congress of limiting the
words 'heirs of the deceased preemptor' as used in the
section, to persons who would be heirs at common law
(children not born in lawful matrimony being therefore
lexcluded) rather than those who might be such according
to the lex rei sitar, by which, generally speaking, the question of the descent and heirship of real estate is exclusively
governed. If such had been the intention, it seems clear
that a definition of the word 'heirs' would have been given,
so as to withdraw patents issued under this section from
the operation of the settled rule upon the subject.
But it is contended that the word 'heirs' was used in its
common law sense, and it is true that technical legal
terms are usually taken, in the absence of a countervailing
intent, in their established common law signification, but
that consideration has no controlling weight in the construction of this statute. Undoubtedly the word 'heirs'
was used as meaning, as at common law, those capable
of inheriting, but it does not follow that the question as

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

to who possessed that capability was thereby designed to
be determined otherwise than by the law of the State
which was both the situs of the land and the domicile of
the owner" (pp. 68, 69). And there is no ground for taking
this case out of the rule thus announced upon the theory
that the controversy involved the title to real estate, contracts concerning which are governed by the law of the
situs, since we are dealing here with the subject of next
of kin which so far as legislative power is concerned under
our constitutional system of government is inherently
local and to be determined by the rules of the local law.
And this is well illustrated by Blagge v. Balch, 162 U. S.
439, which involved a controversy as to the distribution
of French spoliation claims awarded under an act of
Congress providing "That in all cases where the original
sufferers were adjudicated bankrupts the awards shall be
made on behalf of the next of kin instead of to assignees
in bankruptcy . . ." Without going into detail concerning the controversy in that case it suffices to say that
if the next of kin entitled to take under the act of Congress had been ascertained under the rule of the common
law, there would have been one result, and if determined
by the law of the State controlling distributions, another
and different result followed. Coming to determine the
significance of the words "next of kin" from the act itself
and its context, the court said (p. 464); "And we are of
opinion that Congress, in order to reach the next of kin
of the original sufferers, capable of taking at the time of
distribution, on principles universally accepted as most
just and equitable, intended next of kin according to the
statutes of distribution of the respective States of the
domicile of the original sufferers."
2 and 3. The suggestion rather than contention that if
the state law be held applicable to determine next of kin,
the right should have been recognized to seek to trace
the paternity of the illegitimate child so as to make the

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KENNEY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of. the Court.

asserted father the parent under the statute, might well
be disposed of by saying that no such contention seems to
have been urged in either of the courts below. But aside
from this, the entire want of merit of the proposition is at
once demonstrable from a two-fold point of view: (a) because it was necessarily foreclosed by the ruling of the
court below as to the state law concerning the next of in
and the right of the brothers and sister of the illegitimate
child to inherit from him solely because of a common
motherhood, a ruling which excluded by necessary implication the right now contended for. (b) Because as
no provision, either of the state law or of the common law,
supporting the asserted right is referred to, the suggestion
may be taken as simply a typical illustration of the confusion of thought involved in the main proposition relied
upon which we have previously adversely disposed of.
In so far as it is suggested that there was no proof tending to show a dependent relation between the next of kin
who were recognized and the deceased so as to justify
recovery under the statute, it suffices. to say that it was
expressly foreclosed by the finding of the jury sanctioned
by the trial court and was not questioned in the court
below, and at all events involves but a controversy as to
the tendencies of all the proof foreclosed by the action of
both courts which we would not reverse without a clear
conviction of error, which after an examination of the
record on the subjectwe do not entertain. Great Northern
Ry. v. Knapp, 240 U. S. 464.
Affirmed.

