EATON v. BOSTON TRUST CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

EATON, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF LUKE,
v. BOSTON SAFE DEPOSIT AND TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE OF LEIGHTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 466.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted February 28, 1916.Decided March 13, 1916.

Trusts for life with income to be free from interference or control of
creditors of the beneficiary are in Massachusetts valid and effective
against creditors, and under certain conditions, against assignees
in insolvency and trustees in bankruptcy.
The policy of the-Bankruptcy Act is to respect state exemptions.
A trust fund established by a will, the whole of the income to be paid
during life of the beneficiary with such portion of the principal as
shall make the annual amount to be paid at least a stated sum, said
income to be free from interference or control of creditors, held, in
this case, following the decision of the highest court of Massachusetts,
not to pass to the trustee in bankruptcy of the beneficiary under
ยง 70 a (5) of the Bankruptcy Act.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of ยง 70 a (5) of the, Bankruptcy Act, and of the rights
of the life tenant in a trust fund created under the laws
of Massachusetts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Raymond H. Oveson, Mr. Alexander Kendall and
Mr. Matthew Hale for defendant in error in support of the

motion.
Mr. Gi'bert E. Kemp for plaintiff in error in opposition
thereto.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is a bill for instructions, brought by the Trust
Company, the principal defendant in error, to ascertain
whether a fund bequeathed to it in trust for Mrs. Luke,

428 '

2OCTOBER TERM, "1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

codefendant in error, passed to her trustee in bankruptcy.
The bequest was of sevlenty-fi e thousand dollars, "The
whole of the net income thereof to be paid my adopted
daughter, Fannie Leighton Luke, wife of Otis H. Luke,
of said Brookline during her life quarterly in each Ind
every year together with such portion of the principal of
said trust fund as shall make the amount to be paid her at
least Three Thousand Dollars a year during her life, said
income to be free from. the interference or control of her
creditors." It is established law in Massachusetts that
such trusts are valid' and effective against creditors,
Broadway National Bank v. Adams, 133 Massachusetts,
1170, and, subject to what we are about to say, against
assignees in insolvency or trustees in bankruptcy. Billings
v. Marsh, 153 Massachusetts, 3.11. Munroe v. Dewey,
176 Massachusetts, 184. The trustee in bankruptcy seeks
to avoid the effect of these decisions on the ground that
Mrs. Luke's equitable life interest was held by the Supreme Court of the State to be assigpable, and that
therefore it passed under ยง 70a (5) of the Bankruptcy
Act, vesting in the trustee all property that the bankrupt
"could by any means have transferred." The Supreme
Judicial Court, however, held that the above cited cases
governed and that the property did not pass. 220 Massachusetts, 484.
If it be true without qualification that the bankrupt
could have assigned her interest and by so doing could
have freed from the trust both the fund and any proceeds
received by her, the argument would be very strong that
the sthtute intended the fund to pass. There would be
an analogy at least with the provision giving the trustee
all powers that the bankrupt might have exercised for her
own benefit, ยง 70 a (3), and there would be difficulty in
admitting that a person could have property over which
he could exercise all the powers of ownership except to
make it liable for his debts. The' conclusion that the

EATON v. BOSTON TRUST CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fund was assignable was based on two cases, and we presume was meant to go no farther than their authority required. The first of these simply held that an executor
was not liable on his bond for paying over an annuity
to an assignee as it fell, due, w1'en the assignor to whom it
was bequeathed free from creditors had not attempted to
avoid his act. Ames- v. Clarke, 106 Massachusetts, 573.
The other cage does not go beyond a dictum that carries
theprinciple no farther. Huntress v. Allen, 195 Massachusetts, 226. It is true that where the restriction has'
been enforced there generally has been a clause against
anticipation, but the present decision in following them
holds the restricting clause paramount, and therefore we
feel warranted in assuming that the power of alienation
will not be pressed to a point inconsistent with the dominant intent of the will. Whether if that power were absolute the restriction still should be upheld as in case of
a statutory exemption that leaves the bankrupt free to
convey his rights it is unnecessary to decide.
The law of Massachusetts treats such restrictions as
limiting the character of the equitable property and inherent in it. Dunn v. Dobson, 198 Massachusetts, 142,
146. Lathrop V. Merrill, 207 Massachusetts, 6, 9. Whatever may have been the criticisms upon the policy and
soundness of the doctrine, and whatever may be, the
power of this court to weigh the reasoning upon which it
has been established by the Massachusetts cases, Page v.
Edmisnds, 187 U. S. 596, 602, it has been established too
long and is too nearly sanctioned by the decisions of this
court to be overthrown here. Nichols v. Eaton, 91 U. S.
716. Shelton v. King, 229'U. S. 90, 99. The policy of the
Bankruptcy Act is to respect state exemptions, and until
the Massachusetts decisions shall have gone farther than
they yet have we are not prepared to say that the present
bequest is not protected by the Massachusetts rule.
Decree affirmed.

