OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

MT.

240 U. S.

VERNON-WOODBERRY
COTTON DUCK
COMPANY v. ALABAMA INTERSTATE POWER
COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 200.

Submitted January 10, 1916.-Decided January 24, 1916.

Prohibition is a distinct suit and the judgment finally disposing of it is
a final judgment by common law as well as under the statutes of
Alabama within the meaning of Judicial Code, § 237.
The fact that the denial of a petition for writ of prohibition does not
decide the merits of the principal suit is immaterial so far as finality
of the judgment is concerned.
Where the state court has denied a petition for writ of prohibition, all
the points urged exclusively under the state constitution must be
taken to have been decided adversely to plaintiff in error and this
court in such respect follows the state court.
To manufacture, supply and sell to the public, power produced by
water as motive force, held in this case, following the judgment of the
state court, to be a public use justifying the exercise of eminent domain, and the statfite of Alabama providing for condemnation of
property for water power purposes is not unconstitutional as taking
property without due process of law.
186 Alabama, 622, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction, application
and constitutionality of statutes of Alabama providing
for proceedings to condemn land and water powers, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Hollins N. Randolph and Mr. Edwin G. Baetjer,
for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Thomas W. Martin and Mr. Ray Rushton for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a writ of prohibition to prevent

the Probate Court of Tallapoosa County from taking

MT. VERNON COTTON CO. v. ALABAMA POWER CO. 31
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of condemnation proceedings instituted by
the Alabama Interstate Power Company to take land,
water and water rights belonging to the petitioner.. An
alternative writ was issued but the Supreme Court of the
State ordered it trbe quashed and the writ to be dismissed.
186 Alabama, 622. The grounds of the petition are that
the statutes of Alabama do not authorize the proceedings and that if they do they contravene the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Court upheld the statutes and the jurisdiction of the Probate Court, but left the sufficiency of
the petition for condemnation, whether every subject
of which condemnation was sought could be condemned,
and the ability of the Power Company to prove its case,
to be determined in the condemnation case. There is a
*motion to dismiss the writ of error on the ground that the
present decision is not final because it does not determine
the merits; but this motion must be denied. Prohibition
is a distinct suit and the judgment finally disposing of it is
a final judgment within the meaning of the Judicial Code,
Act of March 3, 1911, c: 231, § 237, 36 Stat. 1087, 1156,
under the statutes of Alabama and by the common law.
Code of 1907, §§ 4864-4867, 4872. Weston v. Charleston,
2 Pet. 449, 464, 465. The fact that it does not decide the
merits of the principal suit is immaterial. It is not devoted to that point, but only to the preliminary question
of the jurisdiction of the court in which that suit is brought.
The .argument in favor of granting the writ presented
by the plaintiffs in error, is addressed in great part to
matters with which this court has no concern. It is argued
that the Probate Court could not be given jurisdiction
of the condemnation proceedings consistently with the
constitution of the State; that under the same instrument the State Legislature had no power to pass the condemnation acts; that the petition was insufficient to
found jurisdiction of the case and was defective in various

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ways; that a part of the condemnation sought was bad
under the statutes in any event; and that certain words
in the Alabama Code under which it is sought to condemn
rights below the contemplated dam of the r'ower Company, never were properly enacted by the legislature of
the State. All these points must be taken to have been
decided adversely to the plaintiff in error by the Supreme
Court of Alabama so far as they might furnish grounds
for prohibition, and they all are matters on which this
court follows the Supreme Court of the State.
The principal argument presented that is open here, is
that the purpose of the condemnation is not a public one.
The purpose of the PowerCompany's incorporation and
that for which it seeks to condemn property of the plaintiff in error is to manufacture, supply, and sell to the public, power produced by water as a motive force. In the
organic relations of modern society it may sometimes be
hard to draw the line that is supposed to limit the authority of the legislature to exercise or delegate the power of
eminent domain. But to gather the streams from waste
and to draw from them energy, labor without brains, and
so to save mankind from toil that it can be spared, is to
supply what, next to intellect, is the very foundation of all
our achievements and all our welfare. If that purpose is
not public we should be at a loss to say what is. The inadequacy of use by the general public as a universal test
is established. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361. Strickley v.
Highland Boy Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527, 531. The respect
due to the judgment of the State would have great weight
if there were a doubt. Hairston v. Danville & Western
Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598, 607. O'Neill v. Learner, 239 U. S.
244, 253. But there is none. See Otis Co. v. Ludlow Manufacturing Co., 201 U. S. 140, 151. We perceive no ground
for the distinction attempted between the taking of rights
below the contemplated dam, such as these are, and those
above. Compensation is provided for according to rules

MT. VERNON COTTON CO. v. ALABAMA POWER CO. 33
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the court below declares to be well settled and that
appear to be adequate. The details as to what may be
taken and what not under the statutes and petition are not
open here. Before a corporation can condemn rights it is
required to have obtained, by other means, at least an
acre on each side of the stream for a dam site, and this is
supposed to show that the use is not public. It is only a
reasonable precaution to insure good faith. A hardly
consistent argument is that the dam should be built before
the necessity of taking waters below can be shown. But
a plan may show the necessity beforehand. All that we
decide is that no general objection based on these grounds
affects the jurisdiction of the Probate Court or the constitutionality of the act.
Certain exceptions from the powers conferred, such as
private residences, lands of other corporations having
similar powers, and cotton factories, subject to the taking
of the excess of water over that in actual use or capable of
use at normal stages of the stream, are too plainly reasonable so far as they come in question here to need justification. Discrimination is alleged but not argued. We see
nothing that runs against the Fourteenth Amendment.
The right given to take possession before the compensation
is finally determined also is not argued. Williams v.
Parker, 188 U. S. 491, 502. Without further discussion of
the minutiT, we are of opinion that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Alabama upon the questions arising
under the Constitution of the United States was correct.
Judgment affirmed.

