HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS. .251
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

an abuse of power (Wagner v. Leser, 239 U. S. 207; Houck
v. Little Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254; Myles Salt
Co. v. Iberia Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478; Gast Realty
Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55. And see BiMetallic Investment Co. v. State Board of Equalization,239
U. S. 441, 445-446), which obviously is not the case
here.
The claim that the land owners are not afforded an
opportunity to be heard in respect of the value of their
lands is also untenable. While no hearing is given when
the lands are appraised one is accorded when the tax is
sought to be enforced. The mode of enforcement is by
a suit in a court of justice, when, as the Supreme Court
of the State holds, owners aggrieved by the valuation
may have a full hearing upon that question.. This is due
process. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104;
Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 711.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMILTON-BROWN SHOE CO. v. WOLF'
BROTHERS & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 37. Argued October 28, 29, 1915.-Decided February, 21, 1916.
The words "The American Girl" as applied to women's shoes is not
a geographical or descriptive term signifying that the articles are
manufactured in America, or intended to be sold therein; nor does
it indicate qualities or characteristics of the article.
In this case, held that the term "American Girl " is a fanciful designation, arbitrarily selected by a concern manufacturing shoes to desig-

.252

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

nate their product, and as such it is subject to appropriation as a
trade-mark for that purpose.
The record in this case shows that the term "American Girl" was
legitimately appropriated and used as a trade-mark by the complainant and those under whom it claims.
The jurisdiction.of this court to review judgments and decrees of'
the Circuit Courts of Appeals on certiorari under § 240, Jud. Code,
is to be exercised sparingly and only in cases of peculiar gravity and
general importance and in order to secure uniformity of decision,
and the refusal of the application is in no case equivalent to affirmance.
The fact that the decree sought to be reviewed is not a final one furnishes sufficient ground for refusing the petition.
dn certiorari, this court is called upon to notice and rectify any error.
that may have occurred in interlocutory proceedings, and is not
bound to consider that an interlocutory decree settled the law of
the case because it refused to review it on certiorari.
The right to use a trade-mark is property. of which the owner is entitled to exclusive enjoyment to the extent that it has been actual!y
used, and an infringer is required in equity to account for and yield
up his gains to the true owner.
In this case, held that one using the label "American Lady" for shoes
manufactured and sold by it infringed the rights of complainant as
owner of the trade-mark "American Girl."
While the decree of the court below was based on profits gained by
defendant in unfair competition by using an imitation of complainant's label and not for infringement of trade-mark, as the proofs and
findings were as applicable to a claim of compensation for infringinga trade-mark to which complainant is found entitled, the decree
may be affirmed.
Where defendant- is not an innocent infringer and an apportionment
between profits attributable to infringing the trade-mark and those
attributable to intrinsic merit of his own article is inherently impossible, complainant is not limited in his recovery to the former;
nor is the burden on him to show what such portion of the profits
was.

The owner of the trade-mark is on every principle of reason and justice
entitled to so nmuch of the profit as resulted from its use, and it is
more consonant with reason and justices that he should have all the
profit than ' that he. should be deprived of any portion. thereof by
the fraudulent act of the infringer.
On matters of fact in estimating the profits to which complainant is

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS.
240 U.S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

entitled there is no sufficient reason for disturbing the decree based
on rulings of the master in this case.
206 Fed. Rep. 611, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve rights of the owner of a trademark and the liability of one infringing it, and other questions, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Luke E. Hartand Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom
Mr. H. S. Priest and Mr. Morton Jourdan were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. Simeon M. Johnson and Mr. Percy Werner were on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICGI

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Respondent, an Ohio corporation engaged in the manufacture of shoes, filed its bill of complaint on January 29,
1906, in the Circuit Court'of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri, Eastern Division, against
petitioner, a Missouri corporation engaged in the same
business, seeking an injunction to restrain infringement of'
an alleged trade-mark for shoes consisting of the words
"The American Girl," by the use of the words "American
Lady" as a colorable imitation, and also unfair competition in trade, carried on by means that *included the use of
the latter words; and praying an accounting of damages
and profits. On final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed
the bill. Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals
(165 Fed. Rep. 413) held that "The American Girl" was
a geographical name, and, as applied to women's shoes,
was descriptive merely of shoes manufactured in America
and to be worn by women, and not an arbitrary or fanciful name to indicatb the maker, and hence that the term

.254

OCTOBER TERM., 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

as applied to shoes was not the subject of a valid trademark. But the court held that complainant was entitled
to be protected against unfair trade; that the record
disclosed that it and its predecessors in business had employed the words "The American Girl" as a trade-mark
continuously since the year 1896, had extensively advertised their shoes under that name, with the catch phrase
"A shoe as good as its name," in trade journals and newspapers throughput the United States, and largely throughout the southern States, and thus established an extensive
trade therefor; and that defendant by adopting in the
year 1900 and thereafter using the name "The American
Lady," with certain catch phrases, in connection with
shoes made by it, and this with full knowledge of complainant's rights, was guilty of unfair competition, tending
to and resulting in confusion in the trade, and that complainant was entitled to relief. The decree of the Circuit
Court was therefore reversed, with directions to decree
an injunction and an accounting limited to the time since
the commencement of the suit.
Complainant petitioned this court for a writ of certiorari
to review that decision, but this was denied. 214 U. S.
514.
Thereafter the Circuit Court, pursuant to the mandate of
the Court of Appeals, made a decree granting an injunction
in accordance with the opinion of that court, and referring
to a master an accounting of the damages and profits
for which defendant might be liable,' "limited to shoes
sold by the defendant since the filing of the bill in this
case, and which were marked with the -name 'American
Lady,' and not accompanied with any other matter clearly
indicating" that such shoes were of the manufacture of
the Hamilton-Brown Shoe Company." An accounting
was bad, extending from the date of the commencement of
the suit to March 10, 1910. Complainant made no attempt to introduce substantial proof as to the amount of

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS. 255
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its damages, declaring that they were practically incapable of exact computation. All the testimony was directed to the question of defendant's profits.
The master reported that during the period covered by
the accounting defendant sold "American Lady" shoes,
which, because of differences in marking, he divided into
three classes:
Class 1. 974,016 pairs of shoes bearing the words" American Lady" stamped upon the sole, and bearing no other
impression or distinguishing mark. The profits upon these
were found to be $254,401.72.
Class 2. 961,607 pairs of shoes marked "American
Lady," with the words "Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co."
but without the word "Makers" or other matter indicating that the shoes were of defendant's manufacture. The
profits upon these were found to be $190,909.83.
Class 3. 593,872 pairs of shoes marked "American
Lady," but bearing also the marks "Hamilton-Brown
Shoe Co., Makers." The profits upon these were found.
to be $132,740.77.
The master recommended that a judgment be-entered for
the profits accruing from the first two classes, aggregating
$445,311.55. The profits accruing from the third class
he held complainant was not entitled to recover under
the opinion of the Court of Appeals and the decree of the
Circuit Court entered in accordance with it. Both parties
having filed exceptions, the District Court (successor of
the Circuit Court), overruled those of complainant, sustained those of defendant, and adjudged a recovery of $1
nominal damages. 192 Fed. Rep. 930.
Complainant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
contending that a decree should have been rendered in its
favor for the profits upon the first two classes of shoes, in
accordance with the master's recommendation, and that
it should have included the profits upon the third class,
which were denied by the master. The Court of Appeals

OCTOBER, TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

reversed the decree, with directions that defendant's
exceptions to the master's report be overruled, that the
report be confirmed, and that a decree be entered against
defendant for the amount recommended by him, with
costs. 206 Fed. Rep. 611.
This writ of certiorari having been allowed, we
proceed
to deal with the questions presented by the record.
Regarding the case as one of unfair competition without trade-mark infringement, it is insisted by petitioner
that the normal recovery does not include the gains and
profits of defendant, according to the rule admittedly
applicable in equity to trade-mark cases, but that the
injured party is limited to such damages as it shows it has
sustained; and that the present case is devoid of circumstances to take it out of the ordinary rule.
If, however, complainant was and is entitled to the use of
the words "The American Girl" as a trade-mark, in the
strict sense of the term, and if the proofs adduced before'
the master, and his findings thereon, are as applicable to
a claim of compehsation for infringement of the trademark as to a claim of compensation for unfair competition
in the absence of trade-mark, it will not be necessary to
pass upon the question of the proper measure of recovery
in a non-trade-mark case. As above pointed out, a claim
of trade-mark right was asserted in the bill, and it has not
been abandoned. It was overruled by the Circuit Court
of Appeals on the first appeal, upon reasoning with which
we are unable to concur. •We do not regard the words
"The American Girl," adopted and employed by.complainant in connection with shoes of its manufacture, as being
a geographical or descriptive term. It does not signify
that the shoes are manufactured in America, or. intended
to be sold or used in America, nor does it indicate the
quality or characteristics of the shoes. Indeed, it does not,
in its primary signification, indicate shoes at all. It is a
fanciful designation, arbitrarily selected by complainant's

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS.
240 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

predecessors to designate shoes of their manufacture.
We are convinced that it was subject toappropriation for
that purpose, and it abundantly appears to have been appropriated and used by complainant and those under whomit claims.
Tie cases cited to the contrary are distinguishable. In
CaAal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 324, the word "Lackawanna" was rejected as a trade-mark for coal because it
designated the district in which the coal was produced.
In Columbia Mill Co. v. Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460, 466, it was
held that "Columbia" could not be appropriated for exclusive use as a trade-mark because it was a geographical name. So, with respect to "Elgin," as designating
watches, Elgin Natl. Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co,, 179
U. S. 665, 673; "Genesee," claimed as a trade-mark for
salt, Genesee Salt Co.-v. Burnap, 73 Fed. Rep. 818;"Old
Country," as a mark for soap, Allen Wrisley Co. v. Iowa
Soap Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 796. If the mark here in controversy were "American Shoes," these cases would be quite
in point. (And see Shaver v. Heller & Merz Co, 108 Fed.
Rep. 821, 826.) But "The American Girl" would be as
descriptive of almost any article of manufacture as of
shoes; that is to say, not descriptive at all. The phrase is
quite analogous to "American Express," held to be properly the subject of exclusive appropriation as a trade-mark
for sealing wax in Dennison Mfg. Co. v. Thomas Mfg. Co.,
94 Fed. Rep. 651, 653.
It is contended that this question is settled otherwise,
at least as between these parties, by the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the first appeal and our refusal
to review that decision upon complainant's petition for a
writ of certiorari, and that the only questions open for review at this time are those that were before the Court of
Appeals upon the second appeal. This, however, is based
upon an erroneous view of the nature of our jurisdiction
to review the judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Appeals by certiorari under §240, Jud. Code, derived from
§ 6 of the Evarts Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828,
ch. 517. As has been many times declared, this is a jurisdiction to be exercised sparingly, and only in cases of
peculiar gravity and general importance, or in order to
secure uniformity of decision. Lau Ow Bew, Petitioner,
141 U. S. 583, 587; In re Woods, 143 U. S. 202; Lau Ow
Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 58; Amer. Const. Co. v.
Jacksonville Ry., 148 U. 8. 372, 383; Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S. 506, 514; Fields v. United States, 205 U. S. 292,
296. And, except in extraordinary cases, the writ is not
issued until final decree. Amer. Const. Co. v. Jacksonville

Railway, 148 U. S. 372, 378, 384; The Three Friends, 166
U. S. 1, 49; The Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 113; Denver v.
N. Y. Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 133. The decree that was
sought to be reviewed by certiorari at complainant's instance was not a final one, a fact that of itself alone furnished sufficient ground for the denial of the application;
besides which it appears, by reference to our files, that the
application was opposed by the present petitioner upon
the ground that the case, however important to the parties, involved no question of public interest and general
importance, nor any conflict between the decisions of
state and Federal courts, or between those of Federal
courts of different circuits.
It is, of course, sufficiently evident that the refusal of an
application for this extraordinary writ is in no case equivalent to an affirmance of the decree that is sought to be
reviewed. And, although in this instance the interlocutory
decision may have been treated as settling "the law of the
case" so as to furnish the rule for the guidance of the referee, the District Court, and the Court of Appeals itself
upon the second appeal, this court, in now reviewing the
final decree by virtue of the writ of certiorari, is called
upon to notice and rectify any error that may have occurred in the interlocutory proceedings. PanamaRailroad

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS.
240 U. S.

259

Opinion of the Court.

v. Napier Shipping Co., 166 U. S.'280, 284; United States
v. Denver & R. G.,R. R., 191 U. S. 84, 93; Lutcher & Ifoore
v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267; Messenger v. Anderson, 225
U. S. 436, 444.
Having reached the conclusion that complainant is entitled to the use of the words "The 'American Girl" as a
trade-mark, it results that it is entitled to the profits acquired by defendant from the manifestly infringing sales
under the label "American Lady," at least to the extent
that such profits are awarded in the decree under review.
The right to use a trade-mark is recognized as a kind of
prbperty, of which the owner is entitled to the exclusive
enjoyment to the extent that it has been actually used.
McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 252; ManhattanMedicine
Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S. 218, 224. The infringer is required
in equity to account for aid yield up his gains to the true
owner, upon a principle analogous to that which charges a
trustee with the profits acquired by wrongful use of the
property of the cestui que trust. Not that equity assumes
jurisdiction upon the ground that a trust exists. As
pointed out in Root v. Railway, 105 U., S. 189, 214, and
Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 148 (patent cases), the
jurisdiction must be rested upon some other equitable
ground-in ordinary cases, as in the present, the right to
an injunction-but the court of equity, having acquired
jurisdiction upon such a ground, retains it for the purpose
of administering complete relief, rather than send the
injured party to a court of law for his damages. And
profits are then allowed as an equitable measure of compensation, on the theory of a trust ex maleficio. In the
courts of England, the rule seems to be that a party
aggrieved must elect between damages and profits, and
cannot have both. In this country, it is generally held
that in a proper case both damages and profits may be
awarded. As already observed, the decree under review
allows profits only, confines the allowance to such as ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

crued after the commencement of the suit, and excludes
all sales where the term "American Lady" was accompanied with any other matter clearly indicating that such
shoes were of the manufacture of the Hamilton-Brown
Shoe Company. It was construed to exclude all shoes
bearing in addition to "American Lady" the marks
"Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co., Makers." The account was
based upon undisputed data, and no reason is suggested
why, if otherwise accurate, it is not as properly applicable
upon the theory of trade-mark as upon that of unfair
competition aside from trade-mark infringement-at
least, so far as defendant is entitled to criticise it; complainant is not attacking the decree.
It is, however, insisted by defendant (petitioner) that
whether the recovery be based upon the theory of trademark, or upon that of unfair competition, the profits recoverable should be limited to such amount as may be
shown by direct and positive evidence to be the increment
to defendant's income by reason of the infringement, and
that the burden of proof is upon complainant to show
what part of defendant's profits were attributable to the
use of the infringing mark. It is said the true rule is
strictly analogous to that applied in patent cases, and
Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620, 650; Elizabeth v. Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 139; Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S.
120, 121; Dobson v. HartfordCarpet Co., 114 U. S. 439, 444;
Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 146; Keystone Mfg. Co.
v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139, 147; Westinghouse Co. v. -Wagner
Mfg. Co., 225 U. S. 604, 615; and Dowagiac Mfg. Co. v.
Minnesota Plow Co., 235 U. S. 641, are relied upon. The
rule invoked is that which, as pointed out in the last two
of these eases, is applicable where plaintiff's patent relates
to a part only of a machine or combination or process, or
to particular improvements in a machine or other device.
In such case, where the invention is used in combination
with other elements of value not covered by the patent,

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS. 261
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so that plaintiff's patent creates only a part of the profits,
he is entitled to recover only that part, and must give
evidence tending to apportion the profits between the
patented and unpatented features. But, as pointed out in
the Westinghouse Case (p. 618), there is a recognized exception where the plaintiff carries the burden of proof to the
extent of showing the entire profits, but is unable to apportion them, either because of the action of the wrongdoer
in confusing his own gains with those which belong to
plaintiff, or because of the inherent impossibility of making
an approximate apportionment. There, "on established
principles of equity, and on the plainest principles of justice, the guilty trustee cannot take advantage of his own
wrong.."
Assuming the asserted analogy to patent cases to exist,
a sufficient reason for not requiring complainant in the
present case to make an apportionment between the profits
attributable to defendant's use of the offending mark and
those attributable to the intrinsic merit of defendant's
shoes is that such an apportionment is inherently impossible. Certainly, no formula is suggested by which- it
could be accomplished. The result of acceding to defendant's contention, therefore, would be to deny all compensation to complainant. And it is to be remembered that
defendant does not stand as an innocent infringer. Not
only do the findings of the Court of Appeals, supported by
abundant evidence, show that the imitation of complainant's mark was fraudulent, but the profits included in the
decree are confined to such as accrued to defendant
through its persistence in the unlawful simulation. in the
face of the very plain notice of complainant's rights that
is contained in its bill. As was said by the Supreme Court
of California in a similar case, Graham v. Plate, 40 California, 593, 598; 6 Am. Rep. 639, 640: "In sales made
under a simulated trade-mark it is impossible to decide
how much of the profit resulted from the intrinsic value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

the commodity in the market, and how much from the
credit given to it by the trade-mark. In the very nature
of the case it would be impossible to ascertain. to what extent he could have effected sales and at what prices except
for the use of the trade-mark. No one will deny that on
every principle of reason and justice the owner of the
trade-mark is entitled to so much of the profit as resulted

from the use of the trade-mark. The difficulty lies in
ascertaining what proportion of the profit is due to the
trade-mark, and what to the intrinsic value of the commodity; and as this cannot be ascertained with any reasonable certainty, it is more consonant with reason and justice that the owner of the trade-mark should have the
whole profit than that he should be deprived of any part
of it by the fraudulent act of the defendant. It is the same
principle which is applicable to a confusion of goods. If
one wrongfully mixes his own goods with those of another,
so that they cannot be distinguished and separated, he
shall lose the whole, for the reason that the fault is his;
and it is but just that he should suffer the loss rather than
an innocent party, who in no degree contributed to the
wrong." To the same effect are Avery v. Meikle, 85 Kentucky, 435, 448; 7 Am. St. Rep. 604, 610; El Modello Cigar
Co. v. Gato, 25 Florida, 886, 915; 23 Am. St. Rep. 537, 544;
6 L. R. A. 823, 829; Regis v. Jaynes, 191 Massachusetts,
245, 249, 251; Shoe Co. v. Shoe Co., 100 Maine, 461, 479;
Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 22, 24.
Finally, it is contended that the account as stated by
the master and confirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals failed to make due allowance for certain items
entering into the cost of manufacturing and selling the
shoes in diminution of defendant's profits, including interest on capital, depreciation of real estate, taxes, insurance, advertising, and trade discounts. These are
matters of fact, respecting which we see no sufficient
reason for disturbing the decree. One of the points

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS.

240 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

most earnestly insisted upon is that certain overhead
charges, appearing on defendant's .books as "Advance
Boston House, $73,772.03" and,"Allowance to Boston;
$103,075.14," of Which the amount chargeable pro rata
against "American Lady" shoes not marked "Makers,"
for the-period covered by the accounting, was $10,271.69,
ought to have -a~en deducted in computing defendant's
profits. 'The only explanati6n of these charges is in astipulation of the parties that they "represent allowances
made by the 'wholesale house o4 Hamilton-Brown Shoe
Company on goods shipped by it to what is known as
the 'Boston House,' being a separate and distinct corporation from the defendant company, and the amount
received by the Hamilton-Brown Shoe Company from
the 'Boston House' for goods shipped to it was $73,772.03
and $103,075.14 less than the price at which the goods
were billed to that house, and those items do not represent moneys paid by the Hamilton-Brown. Shoe Company
to the 'Boston House' or advances by the HaniltonBrown -Shoe Company to the 'Boston House."' If, in
the Master's calculation of the profits, defendant had
been charged with sales of the goods at the prices at which
they were billed to the Boston House, the insistence that
a deduction of $10,271.69 ought to be allowed as being
in the nature of a trade discount would seem correct.
But that is not made to appear, and we cannot conclude
that the Master erred in overruling this allowance.
Decree affirmed.
'THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JusTmcEVAx DEVANTER
are of opinion that the term "The American Girl," as
applied to women's shoes made and sold in America, is
geographical and descriptive and not subject to exclusive
appropriation as a trade-mark, and that upon this record
a recovery of the entire profits is not admissible. They
therefore dissent.

