OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U.S.

pared with the combined negligence of himself and the
defendant.' We say this because the statutory direction
that the diminution shall be 'in proportion to the amount
of negligence attributable to such employee' means, and'
can only mean, that, where the causal negligence is partly
attributable to him and partly to the carrier, he shall not
recover full damages, but only a proportional amount
bearing the same relation to the full amount as the negligence attributable to the carrier bears to the entire
negligence attributable to both. . . . Not improbably the mistake in the instruction was purely verbal and
would have been promptly corrected had attention been
specially called to it, and possibly it was not prejudicial to
the defendant."
The state court concluded that 'upon the whole instruction no prejudice to defendant resulted.' And in
this view we concur.
Judgment affirmed.

FRANK CROCKER, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF POSTAL SERVICE AND LOCK COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 77.

Argued December 1, 2, 1915.--Decided January 31, 1916.

The findings of the Court of Claims in an action at law determine all
matters of fact precisely as a verdict of a jury, and this court cannot
refer to the opinion for the purpose of eking out, controlling or modifying their scope.
Secret arrangements with government officials by which they share in
profits on contracts which they have a voice in awarding are most
reprehensible, and vitiate the contract, justifying its rescission, even
if made by those negotiating the contract on behalf of the contractor
and without the actual knowledge of the latter.

CROCKER v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Courtv

No recovery can be had upon a government contract tainted with
fraud and rescinded by the proper officer of the Government on
that ground.
The rescission of a government contract to supply articles at a specified
price is not an obstacle to a recovery upon a quantum valebat, if there
was requisite proof of the value of the articles' delivered.
Where there is fraud in obtaining the contract, the contract price of
the articles cannot for the quantum valebat be regarded as an admission by the Government of the value of the articles delivered prior
to the discovery of the fraud and rescission of the contract.
The burden of proof to establish value upon a quantum valebat for
articles delivered under a contract rescinded for fraud is on the
claimant; and if the Court of Claims made no finding of value in
that respect and stated in explanation there was complete absence
of evidence there can be no recovery. In this instance, the case will
not be remanded for findings on the question of value.
49 Ct. Cl. 85, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve a claim against the United

States for letter carriers' satchels and the effect of fraud
on the right of the contractor to recover therefor, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Hayden, with whom Mr. Robert C. Hayden was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a claim for furnishing letter carriers' satchels
under a contract with the Postmaster General. The contractor was a New Jersey corporation and its trustee in

bankruptcy is the present claimant. In the Court of
Claims a small part of the claim was sustained and the

balance rejected. 49 Ct. Cls. 85.

Only the claimant ap-

peals, so the part sustained is not here in controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

As shown by the findings the facts are these: By public
advertisement in May, 1902, the Postmaster General
solicited bids for furnishing letter carriers' satchels for the
free delivery service for a period of four years. Shortly
after the advertisement the New Jersey company and one
Lorenz entered into a written agreement whereby the
company employed him to assist in securing for it the
contract for furnishing the satchels, it being particularly
stipulated that he and the company's vice-president, one
Crawford, should determine the bid to be made and should
present it in the company's name; that, if the company got
the contract, Lorenz should receive all profits arising out
of the same in excess of twenty-five cents on each satchel,
and that, if the company did not get the contract, he was
to accept one dollar as full payment for his services.
Lorenz and Crawford then entered into a secret arrangement with one Machen, who was superintendent of the
free delivery service and charged with important duties
relating to the purchase of the satchels, whereby, in the
event the company got the contract, Lorenz's share of the
profits was to be divided among them on the basis of onehalf to Machen and one-fourth to each of the others.
After this arrangement was made a bid for the satchels
was prepared and submitted in the company's name, and
was accepted by the Postmaster General. The contract
sued upon followed in regular course, the company agreeing therein to furnish the satchels in such quantities and
at such times as the post office authorities might direct.
The satchels were to be of three classes, those of classes
A and C to have shoulder straps and those of class B to be
without straps. The prices to be paid by the Government
were $2.19 for. each satchel of class A; $3.16 for each of
class B, and $3.15 for each of class C. This included the
shoulder straps on those of classes A and C. The company
was not a manufacturer of satchels or of the materials
used in making them, and to enable it to comply with

CROCKER v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S. -

Opinion of the Court.

the contract it arranged, through Crawford, to have the
satchels made by a manufacturer at Hartford, Conn.
But, as tht manufacturer could not supply shoulder straps
of the type required, the company and Lorenz entered into
a further agreement to the effect that Lorenz should supply
the shoulder straps, that out of what was paid by the
Government for the satchels the company should pay
him 45 cents on each satchel of class A, $1.19 on each of
class B and 84 cents on each of class C as his share of the
profits and to reimburse him for supplying the straps.
Crawford and Machen had conferred about the straps
and Machen had said that the Government would get
the straps, pay for them, send them to the company's
manufacturer and adjust any difference afterwards.
Thereafter and prior to March 17, 1903, the company
furnished over 10,000 satchels pursuant to the terms of
the contract, save that the shoulder straps on those of
classes A and C, which were in excess of 5,000, were provided and paid for by the 0overnment, through Machen,
at a cost of 3912 cents each. These satchels were all paid
for by the Government, through Machen, at the contract
rates without any deduction for the straps. Out of the
moneys so received the company paid Lorenz 45 cents
on each satchel of class A, $1.19 on each of class B and
94 cents on each of class C, and he in turn divided what
he received with Machen and Crawford.
Between March 17 and April 30, 1903, the company
furnished 6,201 more satchels pursuant to the terms of
the contract, save that the shoulder straps on those of
classes A and C, of which there were 4,912, were provided
and paid for by the Government, through Machen, at a
cost of 392 cents each. These satchels were accepted
and retained by the post office authorities. But when
payment for them under the contract was requested, it
was refused. This was because the Postmaster General
had then learned of the corrupt arrangement giving

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Machen an interest in the profits and had rescinded the
contract and stopped further payments under it.
No shoulder straps were furnished by the company,
through Lorenz or otherwise, and both he and Crawford
knew that the straps were purchased and supplied by the
Government. Before the rescission by the Postmaster
General the company did not know that Machen was to
share or was sharing in the profits, or that the Government was supplying the shoulder straps, save as the
company may have been chargeable with the knowledge
of Lorenz and Crawford who represented it in securing
and executing the contract.
It was for furnishing the 6,201 satchels after March 17,
1903, that a recovery was sought in the Court of Claims
and the part of the claim rejected was for the 4,912 satchels
of classes A and C, the rejection being put on the grounds
(a) that no recovery could be had upon the contract, because it called for satchels with shoulder straps and the
company did not furnish the straps, and (b) that no
recovery could be had upon a quantum valebat, because the
value of the satchels as furnished was not shown.
In the briefs reference is made to portions of the opinion
delivered in the Court of Claims as if they were not in
accord with the findings. We do not so read the opinion,
but deem it well to observe, as was done in Stone v. United
States, 164 U. S. 380, 382, 383, that "the findings of the
Court of Claims in an action at law determine all matters
of fact precisely as the verdict of a juryi" and that "we
are not at liberty to refer to the opinion for the purpose
of eking out, controlling or modifying the scope of the
findings." See also Collier v. United States, 173 U. S. 79,
80; United States v. New York Indians, 173 U.- S. 464, 470.
We are of opinion that in the transactions out of which
the claim arose there was an obvious departure fr6m-recognized legal and moral standards. It began when the
company employed Lorenz, upon a compensation contin-

CROCKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

gent upon success, to secure the contract for furnishing
the satchels, and it persisted until its discovery by the
Postmaster General led to the rescission of the contract.
Because of their baneful tendency, as here illustrated,
agreements like that under which Lorenz was employed
are deemed inconsistent with sound morals and public
*policy and therefore invalid. Dealing with such an agreement this court said in Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall.. 45, 5455: "All contracts for supplies should be made with those,
and with those only, who will execute them most faithfully, and at the least expense to the Government. Considerations as to the most efficient and economical mode
of meeting the public wants should alone control, in this
respect, the action of every department of the Government. No other consideration can lawfully enter into
the transaction, so far as the Government is concerned.
Such is the rule of public policy; and whatever tends
to introduce any other elements into the transaction, is
against public policy. That agreements, like the one
under consideration, have this tendency, is manifest.
They tend to introduce personal solicitation, and personal influence, as elements in the procurement of contracts; and thus directly lead to inefficiency in the public
service, and to unnecessary expenditures of the public
funds.

.

.

.

Agreements

fort compensation

contin-

gent upon success, suggest the use of sinister and corrupt
means for the accomplishment of the end desired. The
law meets the suggestion of evil, and strikes down the
contract from its inception. There is no real difference
in principle between agreements to procure favors from
legislative bodies, and agreements to procure favors in
the shape of contracts from the heads of departnients.
The introduction of improper elements to control the
action of both, is the direct and inevitable result of all
such arrangements." Further recognition of this rule is
found in Marshall v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 16 How. 314,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

334, 335; Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441; Meguire v. Corwine,
101 U. S. 108; Oscanyon v. Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261, 273;
Sage v. Hampe, 235 U. S. 99, 105.
The secret arrangement whereby Machen was to share
in the profits was most reprehensible. Its natural effect,
as also its purpose, was to secure for the company an
inadmissible advantage. The satchels were wanted for
the free delivery service 'and Machen's relation to that
service made it probable, if not certain, that his advice
respecting the reasonableness of the bid, the number of
satchels required from time to time, and the company's
performance of the contract, would be sought and given
consideration by his superiors in the Post Office Department. The advertisement for bids, the postal regulations
(ed. 1902, §§ 17 and 70) and the findings leave no doubt
that he was charged with important duties of that character. Public policy and sound morals forbade that he
should have any personal interest in the bid or contract
lest he might be tempted to advance that interest at the.
expense of the Government. Under the secret arrangement, which was made before the bid was submitted, he
had such an interest and therefore was in a position
where the hope of personal gain was likely to exercise a
predominant influence and prevent a faithful discharge of
his public duties, as in fact it did. Referring to this arrangement, this court said in Crawford v. United States,
212 U. S.183, 192: "Its almost necessary result, itcarried
out, would be to defraud the United States. The fraud
might be perpetrated by getting the corntract at a higher
price than otherwise would have been obtained, or, if
already obtained, then the United States might be defrauded by the General Superintendent [Machen] accepting improper satchels, not made of the materials, or in the
manner specified in the contrat, or by his requiring the
delivery of more satchels than were sufficient for the wants
of the department. . . . Such a corrupt agreement, if

CROCKER v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carried out, would naturally, if not necessarily, result in
defrauding the United States by causing it to pay more
for satchels than was necessary, or for more satchels, or
possibly inferior ones, than it otherwise would, but for
the corrupt agreement set forth."
Of course, the secret arrangement with Machen operated
to vitiate the cempany's contract and justified the Postmaster General in rescinding it on discovering the fraud.
Wardell v. Un. Pac. R. R., 103 U. S. 651, 658; Thomas v.
Brownville &c. R. R., 109 U. S. 522, 524; McGourkey v.
Toledo & Ohio Central R. R., 146 U. S. 536, 552, 565;
Smith v. Sorby, L. R. 3 Q. B. Div. 552; Harrington v.
Victoria Graving Dock Co., ibid. 549; 2 Dillon Municipal
-Corporations, 5th ed., § 773. And this is so, even though
the company was without actual knowledge of the corrupt
arrangement. It was made by Lorenz and Crawford while
endeavoring to secure the contract for the company and
was a means to that end. They were the company's agents
and were securing the contract at its request. It accepted
the fruits of their efforts and thereby sanctioned what
they did and made their knowledge its own. Krumm v.
Beach, 96 N. Y. 398, 404; Fairchildv. McMahon, 139 N. Y.
290; White v. Sawyer, 16 Gray, 586, 589; First National
Bank v. New Milford, 36 Connecticut, 93, 101; Barwick
v. English Joint Stock Bank, L. R. 2 Ex. 259, 265; Mackay
v. Commercial Bank of New Brunswick, L. R. 5 P. C. 394,
410, et seq.; Leake on Contracts, 6th ed., 255, 335-336;
Wald's Pollock on Contracts, 3d ed. 392.
It results that no recovery could be had upon the contract with the Postmaster General, because it was tainted
with fraud and rescinded by him on that ground. But
this was not an obstacle to a recovery upon a quantum
vatebat. Clark v. United States, 95 U. S.539,' 543; Wardell
v. Un. Pac. R .R., supra, p. 659; Thomas v. Brownville
&c. R. R., supra, p. 525. Whether requisite proof was
made of the value of the satchels as furnished is another
VOL. ccxr--6

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

question. The Court of Claims made no finding of their
value and, in explanation of this,, said that there was "a
complete absence" of evidence upon the subject. The
burden of proof was with the claimant and, if he failed to
carry it, he is not in a position to eomplain-especially
as it appears that the Government seasonably objected
that he had not proved the value: He insists, however,
that the findings show the price at which the Government
contracted to take the satchels with the shoulder straps
and also what it cost the Government to supply the straps
and that the difference should be regarded, in the absence
of other evidence, as representing the value of the satchels
as furnished, that is, without the straps. The insistence
proceeds upon the theory that the contract price was in
the nature of an admission by the Government of the
value of the satchels with the straps. However this might
be in other circumstances, it is wholly inadmissible here,
for the fraud with which the contract was tainted completely discredited the contract price and prevented it
from being treated as an admission of the value by the
Government. It therefore was incumbent upon the claimant to show the value by other evidenca and, as this was
not done, no recovery could be had upon -a quantum
valebat.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES dissent, being of opinion that the case should be remanded
for findings on the question of value.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

