INNES v. TOBIN.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

INNES v. TOBIN, SHERIFF OF BEXAR COUNTY,
TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF TEXAS.

No. 532.

Argued January 6, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

Prior to adoption of the Constitution, fugitives from justice were surrendered between the States conformably to what were deemed to
be the controlling principles of comity.
It was intended by Art. IV of the Constitution to fully embrace the
subject of rendition of fugitives from justice between the States and
to confer authority upon Congress to deal with that subject.
The Act of February 12, 1793, c. 7, 1 Stat. 302, now Rev. Stat., § 5278,
was enacted for the purpose of controlling the subject of interstate
rendition and its provisions were intended to be dominant and, so
far as they operated, controlling and exclusive of state power.
Construed in the light of the principles which the statute embodies,
the provisions of Rev. Stat., § 5278, expressly or by necessary implication, prohibit the surrender in one State for removal as a fugitive
from justice. to another State of a person who clearly was not and
could not have been such a fugitive from the demanding State.
The doctrine of asylum applicable under international law by which
a person extradited from a foreign country cannot be tried for an
offense other than the one for which the extradition was asked does
not apply to interstate rendition.
Where there is nothing in the record of a habeas corpus proceeding
to show that the person held for surrender under interstate rendition
had not been in the demanding State there is no basis for this court
assuming that the rendition order conflicted with Rev. Stat., § 5278,
in that respect because the record did show that such person had
come into the surrendering State from a State other than the one
demanding.
Ahn Act of Congress which leaves a subject with which Congress has
power to deal under the Constitution unprovided for does not necessarily take the matters within the unprovided'area out of any possible
state action; and so held that the exclusive character of § 5,278,
Rev. Stat., does not relate to the rendition between States of criminals found in, but who had not fled to, the surrendering State but
had been involuntarily brought therein.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

In construing an Act of. Congress, this court will not presume that
because its provisions were not coterminous with the power granted
by Congress, it was so framed for the purpose of leaving the subject,
so far as unprovided for, beyond the operation of any legal authority
whatever, state or National.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions in the Federal Constitution relative to intrastate
rendition and the constitutionality, construction and application of § 5278, Rev. Stat., providing for such rendition, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. R. H. Ward was
oli the brief for plaintiff in error:
Under the admitted facts, plaintiff in error was not a
fugitive from justice within the meaning of the Act of
Congress, and § 2, Art. 4, Const. of U. S. is not selfexecuting. Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 691; Kentucky
v. Denison, 24 How. 66; Roberts v. Reiley, 116 U. S. 80.
Section 5278, Rev. Stat., is plain and unambiguous. It
contemplates that'in order to be a fugitive from justice,
there must -have been a voluntary flight, as it speaks of
a demand of the executive of a state for the surrender of a
person as a fugitive from justice by the executive authority
of a State to which such person has fled, and it provides
that the indictment or affidavit must be certified as authentic by the Governor of the State from whence the
person, so charged, has fled, etc., and it makes it the duty
of the executive authority of the State to which such
person has fled, to cause him to be arrested and secured.
See Hyatt v. New York, 188 U. S. 691.
To constitute one a fugitive, there must be a flight and
it does violence to the language of the statute, to hold that
a person has fled into a State, when he is brought into such
S ate by force, involuntarily, against his will, and by the
strong arm of the law. Spear on Extradition 338-571;
2 Moore on Extradition, § 569.

INNES v. TOBIN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A person forcibly brought into a State from a sister
State is entitled to his discharge upon habeas corpus. See
also North Carolinav. Hall, 28 L. R. A. 292; Tennessee v.
Jackson, 26 Fed. Rep. 258; Ex parte Thaw, 214 Fed. Rep.
423; 2 Moore, page 920; In re Robinson, 29, Nebraska,
135; State v. Simmons, 39 Kansas, 262; State v. Hall,
40 Kansas, 338; Re Cannon, 47 Michigan, 481; Ex
parte McKnight, 48 Oh. St. 588; Ex parte Todd,. 12 S. Dak.
386.
Mr. Hugh M. Dorsey, with whom Mr. C. C. McDonald
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Governor of Oregon honored a requisition made
by the Governor of Texas for the delivery of the plaintiff
in error for removal to Texas as a fugitive from the justice
of that. State. -The accused was taken to Texas, tried for
murder and a conspiracy to commit murder and acquitted.
She was, however, not released from custody because she
was ordered by -the Governor of Texas under a requisition
of the Governor of Georgia, to be held for delivery to an
agent of the State of Georgia for removal to that State
as a fugitive from justice.
Alleging these facts, an application for release by
habeas corpus was then presented to a state court upon the
charge that Ithe extradition proceedings and the :warrant
of removal thereunder were "wholly null and void"
because "your petitioner was never a fugitive from justice
from the State of Georgia to the State of Texas within
the meaning and intent of the laws of the United States
regulating extradition proceedings." On the return to
the writ, the court, finding the facts to be as above
stated, refused' to discharge the petitioner and the case is

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

before us to review a judgment of the Court of Criminal
Appeals which adopted the findings of the trial court and
affirmed its action.
All the Federal questions involve the meaning of § 2 of
Article IV of the Constitution which is as follows: "A
person charged in any State with treason, felony, or
other crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in
another State, shall, on the demand of the executive
authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered
up to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the
crime;" they also depend on § 5278 of the Revised Statutes which is but a reproduction of § 1 of the act of February 12, 1793 (Chap. 7, § 1, 1 Stat. 302), giving effect to and
establishing the methods of procedure to be resorted to
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the Constitution on the subject to the extent that their execution was
by the statute provided for.
Broadly, there is but a single question for consideration,
Was the order for rendition repugnant to the Constitution and the provisions of the statute? But two inquiries
are involved in its solution: First, was the rendition order
void because under the facts there was no power to award
it except by disregarding express prohibitions or requirements of the Constitution or statute or by necessary
implication adversely affecting rights thereby created;
and second, even although this was not the case, was the
order nevertheless void because under the circumstances
it dealt with a situation which by the effect of the statute
was taken out of the reach of state authority even although
no express provision was made in the statute for dealing with such condition by any authority, state or Federal? We consider the two inquiries under separate headings.
First. For the purpose of the solution of the inquiry
under this heading we treat the following proposition as
beyond question: (a) That prior to the adoption of the

INNES v. TOBIN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution fugitives from justice were surrendered
between the States conformably to what were deemed to
be the controlling principles of comity. Kentucky v.
Dennison, 24 How. 66, 101, 102; 2'Moore on Extradition
and Interstate Rendition, p. 820 et seq. (b) That it was
intended by the provision of the Constitution to fully
embrace or rather to confer authority upon Congress to
deal with such subject. Priggv. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539;
Kentucky v. Dennison, supra; Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall.
366; Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222. (c) That
the act of 1793 (now Rev. Stat., § 5278) was enacted for
the purpose of controlling the subject in so far as it was
deemed wise to do so, and that its provisions were intended
to be dominant and so far as they operated controlling
and exclusive of state power. Prigg v. Pennsylvania,
supra; Kentucky v. Dennison, supra, pp. 104, 105; Mahon
v. Justice, 127 U. S. 700; Lascelles v. Georgia, 148 U. S. 537.
Coming in the light of these principles to apply the
statute, it is not open to question that its provisions
expressly or by necessary implication prohibited the slirrender of a person in one State for removal as a fugitive
to another where it clearly appears that the person was
not and could not have been a fugitive from the justice
of the demanding State. Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642;
Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U.
S. 691; Bassing v. Cady, 208 U. S. 386, 392.
From this it results that the first inquiry here is, did it
appear that the accused was a fugitive from the justice
of the State of Georgia? While the facts which we have
stated do not disclose affirmatively that she was ever in
Georgia and the date, if at all, of her flight from that
State, we think that she was such a fugitive is .to be assumed for three' obvious reasons: because there was no
question of such fact made in the application for habeas
corpus since it is apparent on the face of the application
that the ground of relief relied upon was not that there had

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

been no flight from Georgia, but that there was and
could have been no flight into Texas since the coming
into that State was involuntary and resulted solely from
the extradition proceedings; because that view of the
subject was assumed, both in the elaborate opinion of
the court below and that of the dissenting judge, to be
unquestioned; and finally because neither in the assignments of error in this court nor in the arguments pressed
upon our attention is the contrary view insisted upon or
even suggested. From that aspect, therefore, there is
no ground for saying that the extradition order conflicted
with the express provision of the statute.
Was there a conflict between the statute and the order
for removal to Georgia arising by necessary implication
from the fact that the accused had been brought into the
State of Texas on a requisition upon the State of Oregon
and had not been released from custody or been returned
to Oregon, is the only remaining question under this
heading. While it is quite true, as pointed out in the
opinion of the court below, and in that of the judge who
dissented, that there are some decided cases and opinions
expressed by text writers which sustain the affirmative
view of this inquiry, the subject is here not an open one
since it has been expressly foreclosed by the decision in
Lascelles v. Georgia, 148 U. S. 537. In that case the issue
for decision was whether a person accused who had been
removed to the State of Georgia from another State on
extradition proceedings for trial for a specified crime was
liable in Georgia to be tried for another and different
crime. Reviewing the whole subject and calling attention
to the broad lines of distinction between international
extradition of fugitives from justice and interstate rendition of such fugitives under the Constitution and the
provisions of the act of Congress and the error of assuming
that the doctrine of asylum applicable under international
law to the one case was applicable to the other, it was

INNES v. TOBIN.
240 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

held that the right to prosecute for such other offeisc
existed. The court said (p. 542): "Neither the Constitution, nor the act. of Congress providing for the rendition
of fugitives upon proper requisition being made, confers,
either expressly or by implication, any right or privilege
upon such fugitives under and by virtue of which they can
assert, in the State to which they are returned, exemption

from trial for any criminal act done therein. No purpose
or intention is manifested to afford them any immunity
or protection from trial and punishment for any offences
committed in the State from which they flee. On the
contrary, the provision of both the Constitution and the
statutes extends to all crimes and offences punishable by
the laws .of the State where the act is done. Kentucky
v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 101, 102; Ex parte Reggel, 114
U. S. 642."
We are thus brought to the remaining heading, which is,
Second. Although the order for rendition was not in
conflict either expressly or by necessary implication with
any of the provisions of the Constitution or statute, was
it nevertheless void under the circumstances because it
dealt with a subject with which it was beyorid the power
of the State to deal and which was therefore brought as
the result of the adoption of the statute within exclusive
Federal control although no provision dealing with such sub-

ject is found in the statute? To appreciate this question,
the proposition relied upon needs to be accurately stated.
It is this: The Constitution provides for the rendition
to a State of a person who shall have fled from justice
and bb found in another State; that is, for the surrender
by the State in which the fugitive is found. This, it is
conceded, would cover the case and sustain the authority
exercised, as the accused was a fugitive from the justice of
Georgia and was found in Texas. But the proposition
insists that the statute is not as broad as the Constitution
since it provides not for the .surrender of the fugitive

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

by the State in which he is found but only foi his surrender by the State into which he has fled, thus leaving
unprovided for the case of a fugitive from justice who is
found in a State but who has not fled into such State
because brought into such State involuntarily by a requisition from another. And the argument is supported by the
contention that as the statute exercises the power conferred by the Constitution and is exclusive, it occupies
the whole field and prohibits all state action even upon a
subject for which the statute has not provided and which
therefore in no manner comes within its express terms.
But we are of the opinion that the contention rests upon
a mistaken premise and unwarrantedly extends the scope
of the decided cases upon which it relies. The first, because it erroneously assumes that although the statute
leaves a subject with which there was power to deal under
the Constitution unprovided for, it therefore took all
matters within such unprovided area out, of any possible state action. And the second, because while it is
undoubtedly true that in the decided cases relied upon
(Kentucky v. Dennison, supra; Roberts v. Reilly, supra;
Hyatt v. Corkran, supra) the exclusive character of the
legislation embodied in the statute was recognized, those
cases when rightly considered go no further than to establish the exclusion by the statute of all state action from
the matters for which the statute expressly or by necessary
implication provided.
No reason is suggested nor have we been able to discover any, to sustain the' assumption that the framers
of the statute in not making its provisions exactly coterminous with the. power granted by the Constitution
did so for the purpose of leaving the subject so far as unprovided for beyond the operation of any legal authority
whatever, state or national. On the contrary, when the
situation with which the statute dealt is contemplated,
the reasonable assumption' is that by the omission to

INNES v. TOBIN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extend the statute to the full limits of constitutional
power it must have been intended to leave the subjects
unprovided for not beyond the pale of all law, but subject to the power which then controlled them-state
authority until it was deemed essential by further legislation to govern them exclusively by national authority.
In fact, such conclusion is essential to give effect to the
act of Congress, since to hold to the contrary would render inefficacious the regulations provided concerning the
subjects with which it dealt. 'This becomes manifest
when it is considered that if the proposition now insisted
upon were accepted, it would follow that the delivery
of a criminal who was a fugitive from justice by one State
on a requisition by another would exhaust the power
and the criminal, therefore, whatever might be the extent
and character of the crimes committed in other States,
would remain in the State into which he had been removed without any authority to deliver him to other
States from whose justice he had fled. And this, while
paralyzing the authority of all the States, it must be
moreover apparent, would cause them all to become involuntary asylums for criminals, for no method is suggested by which a criminal brought into a State by requisition if acquitted could be against his will deported, since
to admit such power would be virtually to concede the
right to surrender him to another State as a fugitive from
justice for a crime committed within its borders.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
was right in refusing to discharge the accused and its.
judgment therefore must be and it is
Affirmed.
By stipulation of counsel a similar judgment will be
entered in case of Victor E. Innes v. Tobin, Sheriff, No.'533.

