OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

NEW YORK, PHILADELPHIA & NORFOLK RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
PENINSULA PRODUCE EXCHANGE OF MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 137. Argued December 15, 16, 1915.-Decided January 24, 1916.
The Carmack Amendment of June 29, 1906, extends to failure to transport with reasonable despatch; and under it there can be a recovery
from the initial carrier for loss, damage or injury for such failure
although on the line of the connecting carrier.
A subsequent legislative interpretation of a statute is entitled to great
weight.
A condition of the tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission that the carrier was not bound to transport on a particular train
or vessel to arrive at a particular market or otherwise than with reasonable despatch does not relieve the carrier from liability under the
Carmack Amendment for not delivering with reasonable despatch,
although the delay may have been on line of connecting carrier.
In this case the state court did not deny to the carrier any Federal right
in charging that the liability for unreasonable delay in delivering
a carload of berries was the amount of the decline in value;due to
the delay at the place of destination, without stating the limitation
in the filed tariff that the damages should not exceed the value at the
time and place of shipment, the amount awarded being less than
such value.
122 Maryland, 215, affirmed.

facts, which involve "the construction and application of the Carmack Amendment to damages for delay,
are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl6 and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
for plaintiff in error:
The Carmack Amendment does not impose upon the
"initial carrier" liability for delay occurring Qn the line
of its connection without physical damage to the property.
The plaintiff below is not entitled to recover becatie

N. Y. & NORFOLK R. R. v. PENINSULA EXCHANGE. 35
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

its shipment failed to arrive in time for the market of
May 28, when the regulations under which the shipment
moved were published in tariffs duly on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and specifically provided that: "No carrier is bound to transport said property by any particular train or vessel, or in time for any
particular market, or otherwise than with reasonable

dispatch, unless by specific agreement endorsed hereon."
In support of these contentions, see Adams Exp. Co. v..
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Almand v. Railroad,95 Georgia,
775; A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173; Balt.
& Ohio R. R. v. United States, 215 U. S. 481; Boston &
Maine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; Byers v. Southern
Exp. Co., 165 N. Car. 542; Chi. & Alton R. R. v. Kirby,
225 U. S. 155; C., R. I. & P. Ry. v. Cramer,232 U. S. 490;
Detroit &c. Ry. v. McKenzie, 43 Michigan, 609; East

Tenn. &c. Ry. v. Johnson, 85 Georgia, 497; Fort Smith
&c. R. R. v. Awbrey, 39 Oklahoma, 270; Frey v. N. Y.

Central R. R., 100 N. Y. Supp. 225; G. H. & S. A. Ry. v.
Wallace, 223 U. S. 481; Great Nor. Ry. v. O'Conner, 232
U. S. 508; Gulf &c. R. R. v. Nelson, 139 S. W. Rep. 81;
Matter of Bills of Lading, 14 I. C. C. 346; Johnson v. M.,
K. & T. Ry., 95 N. Y. Supp. 182; Kansas City So. Ry. v.
Carl, 227 U. S. 639- Klass Commission Co. v. Wabash
R. R., 80 Mo. App. 164; Kramer & Co. v. C., M. & St.
P. Ry., 101 Iowa, 178; Leonard v. Railway Co., 54 Mo.
App. 293; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Carpenter, 152 Tex. Civ.
App. 585; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Harriman, 227 U. S.
657; Myrick v. Mich. Cen. R. R., 107 U. S. 102; Norfolk
Truckers Exchange v. N. S. Ry. Co., 116 Virginia, 466;
Pecos &c. Ry. v. Coxe, 150 S. W. Rep. 265; Penna. R. R.
v. Clark, 118 Maryland, 514; Penna R. R. v. Morrisdale
Coal Co., 230 U. S. 304; Railroad Co. v. Manufacturing
Co., 16 Wall. 318; Railroad Co. v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123;
Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506; Shaffer v.
Chicago, R. 1. & P. Ry., 21 I. C, C. 8; Southern Pacifi

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Co. v. Lyon, 66 So. Rep. 209; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Wabash R. R. v. Pearce, 192 U/S.
179.

Mr. James E. Ellegood for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
On May 26, 1910, The Peninsula Produce Exchange of
Maryland delivered to the New York, Philadelphia &
Norfolk Railroad Company at Marion, Maryland, a carload of strawberries for transportation to New York City.
The conditions of the transportation were set forth in the
bill of lading issued by the railroad company. The property was delivered at destination some hours later than
the customary time of arrival and this action was brought
to recover damages for the failure to transport and deliver
with reasonable despatch. Judgment in favor of the
shipper was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Maryland. 122 Maryland, 215.
The plaintiff in error, in its brief, states that "the questions involved are two,""1. Does the Carmack Amendment impose on the
'initial carrier' liability for delay occurring on the line of
its connection without physical damage to the property?
"2. Was the plaintiff entitled to recover because
its shipment failed to arrive in time for the market of
May 28th, when the regulations under which the shipment moved were published in tariffs duly on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and specifically provided: 'No carrier is bound to transport said property by
any particular train or vessel, or in time for any particular market, or otherwise than with reasonable despatch, unless by specific agreement endorsed hereon' ?"
The first question, arising from the fact that it did not
appear that the delay occurred on the line of the initial

N. Y. & NORFOLK R. R. v. PENINSULA EXCHANGE. 37
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier (the defendant) was raised by an unsuccessful
demurrer to the declaration, -and both questions were
presented by prayers for instructions which were denied.
The amendment of ยง 20 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, known as the Carmack Amendment (Act of June 29,
1906, c. 3591, ยง 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595), provides "that any
common carrier . . . receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a point in another
State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and
shall be liable to.the lawful holder thereof for any loss,
damage, or injury to such property caused by it or by any
common carrier . . . to which such property may
be delivered or over whose line or lines such property may
pass, and no contract, receipt, rule, or regulation shall
exempt such common carrier . . . from the liability
hereby imposed."
We need not review at length the considerations which
led to the adoption of this amendment. These were stated
in Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186,
199-203. It was there pointed out that along with singleness of rate and continuity of carriage in through shipments there had grown up the practice of requiring specific
stipulations limiting the liability of each separate company to its own part of the through route, aid, as a result,
the shipper could look to the initial carrier for recompense
only " for loss, damage or delay" occurring on its own line.
This "burdensome situation" was "the matter which
Congress undertook to regulate." And it was concluded
that the requirement that interstate carriers holding
themselves out as receiving packages for destinations beyond their own terminal should be compelled "as a condition of continuing in that traffic to obligate themselves
to carry to the point of destination, using the lines of
connecting carriers as their own agencies," was within the
power of Congress. The rule, said the court in defining the
purpose of the Carmack Amendment, ."is adapted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

secure the rights of the shipper by securing unity of transportation with unity of responsibility." And, again, we
said in Adams Express Company v. Croninger, 226 U. S.
491, that this legislation embraces "the subject of the
liability of the carrier under a bill of lading which he must
issue."-"The duty to issue a bill of lading and the
liability thereby assumed are covered in full, and though
there is'no reference to the effect upon state regulation,
it is evident that Congress intended to adopt a uniform
rule and relieve such contracts from the diverse regulation
to which they had been theretofore subject." Id., p. 506.
It is now insisted that Congress failed to .accomplish
this paramount object; that while unity of responsibility
was secured if the goods were injured in the course of
transportation or were not delivered, the statute did not
reach the case of a failure to transport with reasonable
despatch. In such case it is said that, although there is
a through shipment, the shipper must still look to the
particular carrier whose neglect caused the delay. We do
not think that the language of the amendment has the
inadequacy attributed to it. The words "any loss, damage, or injury to such property" caused by the initial
carrier or by any connecting carrier are comprehensive
enough to embrace all damages resulting from any failure
to discharge a carrier's duty with respect to any part of
the transportation to the agreed destination. It is not
necessary, nor is it natural in view of the general purpose
of the statute, to take the words "to the property" as
limiting the word "damage" as well as the word "injury"
and thus as rendering the former wholly superfluous. It
is said that there is a different responsibility on the part
of the carrier with respect to delay from that which exists
where there is a failure to carry safely. But the difference
is with respect to the measure of the carrier's obligation;
the duty to transport with reasonable despatch is none
the less an integral part of the normal undertaking of

N. Y. & NORFOLK R. R. v. PENINSULA EXCHANGE. 39
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the carrier. And we can gather no intent to unify only
a portion of the carrier's responsibility. Further, it is
urged, that the amendment provides that the initial
carrier may recover from the connecting carrier "on whose
line the loss, damage, or injury shall have been sustained
the amount of such loss, damage, or injury as it may be
required to pay to the owners of such property," and
this, it is said, shows that the 'loss, damage, or injury'
described is that which may be localized as having occurred on the line of one of the carriers and therefore
should be limited to physical loss or injury. But we find
no difficulty in this, as the damages required to be paid
by the initial carrier arp manifestly regarded as resulting
from some breach of duty, and the purpose is simply to
provide for a recovery against the connecting carrier if
the latter, as to its part of the transportation, is "found
to be guilty of that breach. The view we have expressed
finds support in the explicit terms of the act of January 20,
1914, c. 11, 38 Stat. 278, which provides "that no suit
brought in any state court of competent jurisdiction
against a railroad company . .
to recover damages
for delay, loss of, or injury to property received for transportation by such common carrier under section twenty
of the Act to regulate commerce . . . shall be removed to any court of the United States where the matter
in controversy -does not exceed, exclusive of interest and
costs, the sum or value of $3,000." If the language of
ยง 20 can be regarded as ambiguous, this legislative interpretation of it as conferring a right of action for delay,
as well as for loss or injury to the property in the course
of transportation is entitled to great weight. 1 Alexander
tThe language of the Carmack Amendment has been construed in
various decisions by state courts as embracing damages for delay.
Fort Smith R. R. Co. v. Awbrey, 39 Oklahoma, 270; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Lyon (Miss.), 66 So. Rep. 209; Pecos Railway Co. v. Cox, 150
S. W. Rep. (Texas) 265; Norfolk Exchange v. Norfolk Southern R. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

v. Mayor, 5 Cranch, 1, 7, 8; United States v. Freeman, 3
How. 556, 564, 565; Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682, 688.
The second question, as stated, is sought to be raised
under the stipulation of the bill of lading (being one of
the conditions filed with the tariffs under the Interstate
Commerce Act) that the carrier is not bound to transport
"by any particular train or vessel, or in time for any
particular market, or otherwise than with reasonable
despatch." See Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225
U. S. 155; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Rwy. Co. v.
Robinson, 233 U. S. 173. But the argument upon this
point is not addressed to the issue, as recovery was not
sought, or permitted, except for a failure to transport
with reasonable despatch. The declaration alleged that
the berries "were to be transported with safety, and with
reasonable despatch, and delivered . . . in safe condition and with reasonable diligence"; that the defendant, or its connecting lines, did not "transport or deliver
the same with reasonable despatch"; and that the damage was due to their failure to use "due and reasonable
diligence." The court instructed the jury that it became
the duty of the defendant and all connecting lines "to
use reasonable care, diligence and exertion in forwarding
and transporting and delivering" the berries, and that
if the jury should believe that the defendant and the connecting lines, or any of them, "did not use such care,
diligence and exertion" and that by reason of the failure
so to do the berries arrived "too late for the market of
the day on which they would have arrived if they had been
forwarded and transported with such care, diligence and
exertion, and that the plaintiff thereby sustained loss,
then their verdict should be for the plaintiff." As the
Court of Appeals of Maryland said, the ground of the
Co., 116 Virginia, 466. Contra, Byers v. Southern Express Co., 165
N. Car. 542.

N. Y. & NORFOLK R. R. v. PENINSULA EXCHANGE. 41
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action was "the failure to carry with reasonable despatch
and the loss of marketability is mentioned as the element
of damage." That is, the reference to the market said
to have been lost was merely for the purpose of calculating
damages which were sought solely because of lack of
reasonable diligence and not upon the allegation of any
added duty with respect to a particular train or market.
The stipulation invoked does not attempt to limit tbe
duty of the carrier to transport with reasonable despatch,
and we are not called upon to consider its effect in any
other aspect.
The instructions, however, permitted the jury to award
as damages the amount of the decline in value, due to the
delay, at the place of destination, without stating the limitation set forth in the tariff of the plaintiff in error as filed;
and this tariff with the accompanying conditions, duly
offered in evidence, was excluded. It was conceded by
the Court of Appeals that these rulings were erroneous,
but the court found that they worked no harm to the
plaintiff in error. The condition in the bill of lading, and
in the filed tariff provided that "the amount of any loss
or damage for which any carrier is liable shall be computed
on the basis of the value of the property (being the bona
fide invoice price, if any, to the consignee, including the
freight charges, if pr3paid) at the place and time of shipment under this bill of lading, unless a lower value has
been represented in writing by the shipper or has been
agreed upon or is determined by the classification or tariffs
upon which the rate is based, in any of which events
such lower value shall be the maximum amount to govern
such computation, whether or not such loss or damage
occurs from negligence." Treating the rate charged for
the transportation as based'upon assent to this provision,
the Court of Appeals construed the stipulation not as
changing the basis of liability but as limiting the amount
of the recovery in any event to the value of the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

at the time and place of shipment, no other value having
been agreed upon. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,226 U.
S. 491; Wells, Fargo& Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S,
469; Boston & Maine R. R. Co. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97;
George N. Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236 U. S. 278.
It appeared from the evidence that the berries were sold
in New York City at an average price of six and one-half
cents a quart. It was also proved that the decline in
value due to the delay was from two to three cents a
quart. The jury gave a verdict for $180.48, which included $153.60, principal, and $26.88 interest. That is,
the jury gave damages at the rate of two cents a quart
for the 240 crates (7680 quarts) shipped. The court held
that it could not be said, as the defendant contended,
that there was no proof of actual damage from the delay;
and that, so far as the maximum liability fixed by the
filed tariff was concerned, the court was justified in taking
the value of the berries at the time and place of shipment
as being at least equal to the two cents a quart allowed.
Upon this point the Court of Appeals said: "It may be
judicially assumed that their value at the time and place
of shipment was at least equal to the two cents per quart
which the jury allowed as damages, and in the view we
have taken of the case no just purpose would be served
in reversing the judgment and subjecting the parties to
the expense of a new trial." That is to say, upon the
facts as the state court found them to be, the agreed
maximum of liability as stipulated was not exceeded.
We cannot say, in the lig' ' of the evidence, that the
state court denied to the l,.,zdntiff in error any Federal
right in holding as it did with respect to the amount of
the value of the berries at the time and place of shipment,
and in this view we are unable to conclude that in disposing of the Federal questions there was any error which
would require, or justify, a reversal.
Judgment affirmed.

