TYEE REALTY CO. v. ANDERSON.
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

TYEE REALTY COMPANY v. ANDERSON,
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
THORNE v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 393,394. Argued October 14, 15,1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.

Brushaber v. Un. Pac. R. R., ante, p. 1, followed to effect that the
Income Tax provisions of the Tariff Act of 1913 are not unconstitutional either because not sanctioned by the Sixteenth Amendment
and otherwise beyond the general taxing power of Congress, or
because of its retroactive operation for a designated period, or because of discriminations, inequalities or progressive increases on
incomes of individuals or the method provided for computing income of corporations.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and
construction of the Income Tax Law of 1913, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Julien T. Davies,with whom Mr. Brainard Tolles,
Mr. Garrard Glenn and Mr. Martin A. Schenck were on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The effect of the Sixteenth Amendment was merely to
waive the requirement of apportionment among the States
in its application to a general and uniform tax upon incomes from whatever source derived. The Income Tax
Law of 1913, except in so far as the tax thereby imposed
is in reality such a general and uniform tax on incomes,
derives no support from the Sixteenth Amendment.
In its progressive feature, the statute classifies persons
according to their wealth in a manner which is both
arbitrary and unreasonable.
In the light of its history, it is clear that the Sixteenth
Amendment does not sanction progressive taxation.
Under the views which this court has expressed in other

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

cases involving similar principles, the discrimination
effected by the present statute violates the express provisions of the Constitution.
So much of § 2 of the Act of October 3, 1913, as limits
the interest which may be deducted in ascertaining the
taxable income of a corporation to the interest accrued
and paid within the year on an amount of indebtedness
not exceeding one-half of the sum of its interest-bearing
indebtedness and its paid-up capital stock, is invalid.
The discrimination is unwarranted by the Sixteenth
Amendment. The tax does not rest upon income in the
true sense of the word. The classification is arbitrary
and unreasonable.
The discriminations which the statute effects, in regard to the progressive features of the tax, are illustrated
by the exemptions which it allows.
Inasmuch as a large amount of the taxed income actually accrued to and was received by the plaintiff prior
to October 3, 1913, the date of the adoption of the statute,
and there was no competent evidence before the Commissioner that any income whatever had been received
by the plaintiff subsequent to that date, the statute is
not justified by the Sixteenth Amendment, and the tax
was illegally collected.
Numerous authorities sustain the contentions of plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Wallace for defendant in error.'
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Both the plaintiffs in error, the one in 393 a corporation
and the other in 394 an individual, paid under protest
1 For abstract of argument in this and other cases argued simultaneously herewith, see p. 5, ante.

TYEE'REALTY CO. v. ANDERSON.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Collector of Internal Revenue, taxes assessed under
the Income Tax section of the Tariff Act of October 3,
1913 (§ II, ch. 16, 38 Stat. 166). After an adverse ruling
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on appeals
which were prosecuted conformably to the statute (Rev.
Stat., §§ 3220, 3226) by both the parties for a refunding
to them of the taxes paid, these suits were commenced
to recover the amounts paid on the ground of the repugnancy to the Constitution of the section of the statute
under which the taxes had been collected, and the cases
are here on direct writs of error to the judgments of the
court below sustaining demurrers to both complaints on
the ground that they stated no cause of action.
Every contention relied upon for reversal in the two
cases is embraced within the following propositions: (a)
that the tax imposed by the statute was not sanctioned
by the Sixteenth Amendment because the statute exceeded
the exceptional and limited power of direct income taxation
for the first time conferred upon Congress by that Amendment and, being outside of the Amendment and governed
solely therefore by the general taxing authority conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution, the tax was void
as an attempt to levy a direct tax without apportionment
under the rule established by Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601. (b) That the
statute is moreover repugnant to the Constitution because of the provision therein contained for its retroactive
operation for a designated time and because of the illegal discriminations and inequalities which it creates,
including the provision for a progressive tax on the income of individuals and the method provided in the
statute for computing the taxable income of corporations.
But we need not now enter into an original consideration
of* the merits of these contentions because each and all
of them were considered and adversely disposed of in
Brushaber v. Union -PacificR. R., ante, p. 1. That case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

therefore, is here absolutely controlling and decisive. It
follows that for the reasons stated in the opinion in the
Brushaber Case the judgments in these cases must be and
they are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of these cases.

DODGE v. OSBORN, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 396. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Revised Stat., § 3224, is not inapplicable to taxes imposed by the
Income Tax Law of 1913, but is clearly within the contemplation of
par. L, of the Law, 38 Stat. 179.
The provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 3220, 3226, 3227, are also applicable to
proceeding for recovery of taxes erroneously or illegally assessed
and collected under the Income Tax Law of 1913.
A suit may not be brought to enjoin the assessment or collection of a
tax because of the alleged unconstitutionality of the statute imposing
it.
The facts that many suits would have to be brought by persons to
recover taxes paid under an unconstitutional statuteand that meanwhile, under Rev. Stat., § 3187, taxes imposed become a lien and
constitute a cloud on the title of property, held inadequate to sustain
jurisdiction of a suit in equity to restrain the collection of taxes on
the ground of unconstitutionality of the statute imposing them.
There is no violation of due process of law under the Fifth Amendment
in the provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 3220, 3226 and 3227, requiring an

