OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

INDIAN TERRITORY ILLUMINATING
COMPANY v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

OIL

VRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 283.

Argued -March 14, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

A tax upon a lease made is a tax upon the power to make the lease.
Leases that cannot be taxed as an entity cannot be taxed vicariously
by taxing the stock of the corporation owning them where the only
value of the stock is the value of the leases.
Oil leases of land in Oklahoma made by the Osage tribe of Indians
under authority of the Acts of February 28, 1891, and March 3, 1905,
are under the protection of the Federal Government, and the lessee
is a Federal instrumentality, and the State cannot, therefore, tax
its interest in the leases either directly, or as the leases are represented
by the capital stock of the corporation owning them. Choctaw & Gulf
R. R. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292.
43 Oklahoma, 307, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the right of the State of
Oklahoma to tax leases made by the Osage Tribe of
Indians of lands in that State made under authority of
acts of Congress, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Preston C. West, with whom Mr. John H. Brennan
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, Mr. John B. Harrison and Mr. J. H. Miley

for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is whether a certain assignment
of a lease and rights thereunder made by the Osage Tribe

INDIAN OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
240 U. S.

1523

Opinion of the Court.

of Indians, which lease conferred the privilege of prospecting, drilling wells and mining and producing petroleum
and natural gas upon lands in Oklahoma Territory, are
subject to a tax assessed under the laws of Oklahoma as
the property of plaintiff in error in its capacity of a public
service corporation. 1
Plaintiff in error, herein designated as the oil company,
is assignee of the lease and asserts the negative of the
question, contending that under the lease and the assignment of the lease it became "a Federal agent, acting under
a Federal appointment and authorization, in the development of lands belonging to the Osage Tribe of Indians in
the Osage Reservation, and that its business, license or
permit as such cannot be taxed by the state government,
although its physical properties are always subject to
taxation." It rests its contention upon an act of Congress
of February 28, 1891 (c. 383, 26 Stat. 794-5), and an
act of Congress of March 3, 1905 (c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1048,
1061), which extended the lease to the extent of such
portion of the lands as had been sub-leased, namely,
680,000 acres.
By the act of 1891 it was provided, "That where lands
are occupied by Indians who have bought and paid for
the same, and which lands are not needed for farming or
agricultural purposes, and are not desired for individual
allotments, the same may be leased by the authority of
SIt is provided by ยง 7338, Revised Laws of 1910, that "every public
service corporation organized, existing or doing business in this State
shall on or before the last day of February of each year return sworn
lists or schedules of its taxable property as hereinafter provided, or
as may be required by the state board of equalization, and such property shall be listed with reference to amount, kind and value on the
first day of February of the year in which it is listed; and said property
shall be subject to taxation for state, county, municipal, public school
and other purposes, to the same extent as the real and personal property of private persons."

524'

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

the council speaking for such Indians, for a period not to
exceed five years for grazing, or ten years for mining purposes in such quantities and upon such terms and conditions as the agent in charge of such reservation may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior."
The act of 1905 recognized the oil company as the owner
by assignment of the lease, which assignment was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and extended the
lease for a period of ten years from March 16, 1906, with
all the conditions of the original lease except that from
and after that date the royalty to be paid on gas should
be $100 per annum on each gas well instead of $50, as
provided in the lease, and except that the President of
the United States should determine the amount of royalty
to be paid to all.
The State opposes the contentions of the oil company
and asserts that the lease was "not a grant of any authority, franchise, or privilege to any particular person
or corporation, and is merely a permit to the Osage Tribe,
authorizing such tribe to lease to any person or any number of persons upon the approval of such lease contract
by the Secretary of the Interior." It further asserts that
the oil company merely occupied "the position of an independent contractor, acting for itself and in its own behalf,
in a contract with the Osage Indian Tribe" and that
therefore the relation of principal and agent between it
and the Government did not exist.
A statement of the case is as follows: The oil company
made a sworn return of what it considered the fair cash
value of that part of its property engaged in the public
service at $53,835.10. The State Board of Equalization,
after a hearing, increased the valuation to $538,350.00,
the basis of the order of the board being that the oil
company was not protected from taxation by the lease
from the Indians. Under the procedure of the State the

INDIAN OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

oil company appealed from that order to the Supreme
Court of the State.
In the latter court a referee was appointed to take testimony and report his findings of fact and conclusions of
law. He duly reported the facts and from them also
reported as a conclusion of law that the oil company was
"liable to taxation-by the State of Oklahoma for the full
value of its property, tangible and intangible-that is,
for the sum of $500,000"; and that it was "not. exempt
from taxation upon the theory that it is a Federal agent
or that it holds a franchise from the Federal Government."
And he recommended that judgment be entered fixing
the assessment of the oil- company's property for taxation
for the year 1911 at $447,169.98, this being the difference
between the total value of all the property and the amount
($52,830.02) locally assessed.
The report was confirmed, the court adjudging that
the property of the oil company be assessed as recommended by the referee.
The question in the case seems to be a simple one. It
is given some complexity by the opinions of the court on
the hearing and rehearing,' which require some reconciliation. It appears from the findings of the referee that on
March 16, 1896, the Osage Nation of Indians in Oklahoma
Territory entered into a contract with, one Edwin B.
Foster, by the terms of which Foster had a blanket lease
upon the Osage Indian reservation for the sole purpose
of prospecting and drilling wells and mining and producing petroleum and natural gas only. The lease was for
a term of ten years and was approved by the Secretary
of the Interior. By an act passed March 3, 1905, Congress extended the lease as to 680,000 acres for ten years.
The lease has therefore expired. Prior to its extension in
1905 the lease was assigned to the oil company.
The oil company has sub-let to more than one hundred
persons and corporations and the operations upon most

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

of the lands covered by the lease have been and are conducted by sub-lessees. A small portion, the amount not
appearing, is operated by the company.
. By the terms of the lease as extended the sub-lessees
are required to pay a royalty of 1/6 of the oil produced
upon the property, of which 1/24 goes to the company
and 3/24 to the Indians, the payments on behalf of the
latter being made to the Indian Agency under and by
virtue of the rules and regulations of the Department
of the Interior.
The oil company has laid pipe lines upon the leased
lands for conveying natural gas and it has been its practice
to furnish gas to the sub-lessees for use as fuel for their
drilling and pumping operations at a flat rate, the amount
of which is not disclosed. The company also furnished
gas during 1911 for domestic consumption to the residents
of Bigheart. and Avant, two small towns in which it had
no franchise, in the Osage Nation adjacent to the pipe
lines of the company. It also furnished gas to a local
corporation in the city of Bartlesville, which company
held a franchise for and was engaged in the business of
selling gas to the residents of that city and also to a local
distributing company at the town of Ochelata for use in
the business of the latter company in selling gas to the
inhabitants of that town.
By the terms of the contract with the Osage Indians the
company was required to furnish gas free to the Osage
citizens for use in the public institutions of the Osages
under certain conditions named.
The oil company is primarily engaged in the business of
oil production and its operations in the gas business are
conducted as an incident to the development of the oil
territory and the production of oil, and, to some extent, as
a matter of accommodation to the citizens of Bigheart and
Avant, and other persons residing along the company's'
pipe lines.

INDIAN OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In 1911 the company made a sworn return of $53,835.10
as the actual cash value of that part of its property engaged in the public service by reason of the gas business
transacted by the company. This valuation was raised
by the Board of Equalization to $538,350.00. Certain of
the company's property was returned to local assessors
and assessed at $52,830.02. All of its property is situated
in Osage and Washington counties, Oklahoma, and the
total value of its stock, including all its property, tangible
and intangible, on February 1, 1911, was $500,000.
The property returned to the Board of Equalization and
to the local assessors did not include the lease, sub-leases,
contracts and franchises of the company, but only its
physical property, it being contended by the company that
such lease, sub-leases, contracts and franchises were not
subject to taxation.
The total value of the company's property of every kind
located in Oklahoma over and above the amount locally
assessed was $447,169.98 on February 1, 1911.
The gas business of the company has not been profitable
but has been and is valuable as an adjunct to its oil operations.
Against the confirmation of the report of the referee the
court said that the oil company made four contentions:
(1) That it was not a public service corporation and that
the Board of Equalization was without authority to assess
its property. (2) That its oil and gas leases were not
property used in any public service rendered by it. (3)
That the leases were not subject to taxation in the hands
of the lessee or his assigns. (4) That in exercising rights
under the laws and by the act of Congress extending the
lease the oil company was a Federal agency, or exercised a
privilege or franchise granted by the Federal Government,
and that the'lease, therefore, was not subject to taxation.
The court held, (1) that the company was a public
service corporation; (2) that the Board of Equalization

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

had the power to assess to the company other property
than that used in connection with public service; (3) that
the oil and gas lease was property and must be assessed
in the name of the owner of the lease and not in the name
of the lessor; and (4) that by reason of the act of Congress
of 1905 the gas, oil and other minerals under the lands
remained the property of the Osage Tribe, and that the
power of Congress over the property could not be questioned. And, distinguishing between the property of a
Federal agent and the operations of such agent, it was
held "that the tax sought to be levied was not invalid
because sought to be levied upon a Federal agency or
upon a franchise granted by the Federal Government; or
because it interferes with the power of Congress fo regulate
commerce between the Indian Tribes."
On rehearing the court modified or changed its view.
The changes and the reasons for them are not eas - to
represent. In the first opinion the report of the referee
was confirmed and it was adjudged "that the property of
appellant [oil company] be assessed as recommended by
the referee in his report." In the second opinion the report
of the referee is again confirmed and the estimate of the
property of the company at $500,000 held to be sustained
by the testimony taken by the referee; but the reasoning of the opinions is quite different. For a statement of
the difference we may adopt for convenience that of the
Attorney General of the State. He says, " . . . the
essential difference between the original opinion and the
opinion on rehearing being that in the original opinion it
was held that oil and gas leases, as such, constitute property as defined by the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Oklahoma, and as such was subject to taxation by
said State, while the opinion on rehearing held that oil and
gas leases, as such, were not defined as personal property
subject to taxation under the statutes of Oklahoma, nor
by the Constitution of said State, and, therefore, could not

INDIAN OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be taxed as personal property; but that under the statutes
the market value of the capital stock of said corporation
could be taken into consideration by the State Board of
Equalization in assessing the properties of said company
and could be properly considered as an element of value in
assessing said properties, and that the evidence taken
before the referee as to the amount of the capital stock of
said company and the market value thereof, together with
its tangible assets, was sufficient to sustain the assessment
made by the State Board of Equalization."
It is clear that the toaid of EqUalization and the referee
sustaining its action proceeded upon the consideration that
the leases constituted taxable property and the first
opinion of the court confirming the report of the referee
had its basis in the same consideration. That consideration was regarded as untenable in the second opinion but
the court adhered to its former conclusion, that is, that
the report of the referee should be confirmed. The Board
of Equalization, the referee, and the court in its first
opinion, regarded the leases as taxable entities. In the
second opinion it was held that they could not be so regarded under the constitution of the State, but the court
gave them effective representation in the capital stock of
the company and the latter then was taken as evidence
that the value of the property of the oil company was
$500,000. Whether the constitution of the State permits
this accommodation we are not called upon to say. We
are clear it cannot be permitted to relieve from the restraints upon the power of the State to tax property under
the protection of the Federal Government. That the
leases have the immunity of such protection we have
decided.
In Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292, the
railroad company was the lessee of certain coal mines,
obligating itself to take out annually specified amounts of
coal and to pay a stipulated royalty. It proceeded actively

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

to develop the mines, either directly or through its agent,
and took therefrom large quantities of coal and fully
complied with the obligations assumed. The State of
Oklahoma attempted to tax the company under the law
of the State requiring every person engaged in the mining
or production of coal to make a report of the kind and
amount produced to the actual cash value thereof, and at
the same time pay to the State Treasurer a gross revenue
tax in addition to the taxes levied upon an ad valorem basis
upon such mining property, equal to 2% of the gross
receipts from the total production. The law was held to
be invalid as attempting to tax an instrumentality through
which the United States was performing its duty to the
Indians.
The application of the case to that at bar needs no
assisting comment. A tax upon the leases is a tax upon
the power to make them, and could be used to destroy the
power to make them. If they cannot be taxed as entities
they cannot be taxed vicariously by taxing the stock,
whose only value is their value, or by taking the stock as
an evidence or measure of their value, rather than by
directly estimating them as the Board of Equalization and
the referee did. The assessment by the board was of the
leases as objects of taxation, having no immunity under
Federal law. This was repeated by the referee, and he
made it clear that the assessment was so constituted.
There was, he reports, a local assessment by the assessors
of Osage and Washington counties of $52,830.02, and that
the total value of the oil company's "property of every
kind located in Oklahoma, over and above the amount
locally assessed, was $447,169.98, on February 1, 1911,"
and he recommended a judgment for the latter amount.
And, we repeat, there is no doubt of what elements it was
composed. The gas business, he reports, was not "of
itself profitable" but was "valuable as an adjunct to the
company's oil operations." He was explicit as to what

ACKERLIND v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

the stock of the company represented, saying that "the
total value of said company's stock, including all its
property, tangible and intangible, on the first day of
February, 1911, was $500,000." It is manifest, therefore,
when the court took the stock as evidence of the value of
the property of the company the court took it as evidence
of the value of the leases and thereby justified their assessment and taxation. This, for the reasons we have stated,
was error.
It follows from these views that the assessment against
the oil company, so far as it included the leases, whether as
separate objects of taxation or as represented or valued
by the stock of the company, is invalid.
Judgment reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ACKERLIND, ADMINISTRATOR OF LIND, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 293.

Argued March 15, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Notwithstanding the requirements of ยง 3744, Rev. Stat., requiring
contracts made by the Secretaries of War, of the Navy, and of the
Interior to be reduced to writing and signed by the contracting
parties, reformation of a contract so executed may be required in a
proper case as against the United States, as it may be required notwithstanding the provisions of the Statute of Frauds.
Failure of a contractor to read the contract before executing the contract, the terms of which he had previously seen is not enough to
debar him from seeking relief by having it properly reformed.
Although the Court of Claims may not have made findings in terms of
certain facts which it has plainly assumed in its decision to be true,

