OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

FAIRBANKS STEAM SHOVEL COMPANY v.
WILLS, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF FEDERAL CONTRACTING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued December 2, 3, 1915.-Decided April 10, 1916.
A corporation organized under the laws of Illinois is to be deemed a
resident of the State within the meaning of the Chattel Mortgage
Act of that State and the county of residence is the county where its
principal office is located although it may transact business in another county.
A corporation can only change its residence within the State of its incorporation by complying with the law of the State.
As the Illinois corporation which made the chattel mortgage in this
case had its principal office in Cook County, and that office was
never legally established in any other county, a mortgage which was
recorded in a different county did not comply with the Recording
Act of Illinois, arid, as against the trustee in bankruptcy, was invalid.
Even though the bankrupt did not have its principal place of business
in the district where the bankruptcy proceeding was instituted, that
objection can be waived by appearing and answering to the merits
in a proceeding instituted to obtain possession of assets of the
bankrupt.
An adjudication of bankruptcy is not open to collateral attack, and
the question of capacity of the trustee to sue is waived if not raised
in the trial court.
If the chattel mortgage is not valid against the trustee because
not properly recorded under the state law, the mortga-gee's title is
not perfected by taking possession after the filing of the petition and
before adjudication.
Under § 47 a-2 as amended by the Act of June 25, 1910, trustees have
the right and remedies of lien creditors as against unrecorded transfers; and, the estate being in custodia legis, the trustee's title relates
back to the date of filing the petition.
212 Fed. Rep. 688, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve a controversy arising in a

bankruptcy proceeding and the relative rights of a mort-

FAIRBANKS SHOVEL CO. v. WILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

gagee of certain chattels of the bankrupt and the trustee
in bankruptcy, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Elisha B. Durfee, with whom Mr. John A. Bellatti,
Mr. Walter Bellatti and Mr. George B. Scofield were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Elbert C. Ferguson, Mr. William Mumford and
Mr. John C. Burchard for appellee, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding.
On December 30, 1912, a creditors' petition in bankruptcy
was filed in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Illinois against the Federal Contracting Company, a corporation of that State, and on
March 25, 1913, it was adjudicated a bankrupt. Between those dates, and on March 6, the Fairbanks Steam
Shovel Company, the present appellant, without actual
knowledge of the filing of the petition, seized a certain
floating steam dredge, then in possession of the Contracting Company at Beardstown, Cass County, which is in
the Southern District of Illinois; doing this by virtue of
a chattel mortgage given by the Contracting Company to
appellant on June 8, 1912, the dredge then being in the
possession of the mortgagor at Beardstown. After the
adjudication of bankruptcy but before the appointment of
a trustee, the bankrupt filed a petition against appellant
in the bankruptcy proceeding, setting up that the mortgage was not acknowledged or recorded in Cook County,
Illinois, where the principal office of the bankrupt was
located by its charter, and for this reason was invalid
against the trustee in bankruptcy to be appointed, and
praying that appellant might be restrained from selling

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

the dredge as it threatened to do. The court entered a
temporary restraining order, which was served; appellant,
without questioning the jurisdiction of the court, appeared and answered, admitting that it had taken possession of the dredge under the provisions of the mortgage,
alleging that the mortgage was duly executed and was
given to secure a part of the purchase price of the dredge,
and that at the time of its execution the bankrupt, through
its officers, represented to appellant that its principal
place of business was at Beardstown; and further that
before the adjudication of bankruptcy appellant took
actual possession of the dredge and thereby perfected its
title thereto; and asking that the injunction be dissolved,
etc. No trustee having yet been appointed, it was ordered
by the court, upon a stipulation between the parties, that
the sale should proceed, under an arrangement providing,
among other things, that if appellant purchased the dredge
it should hold it subject to the decision of the controversy.
The sale was held accordingly, and the dredge was purchased by appellant. Thereafter appellee was appointed
trustee in bankruptcy, and was substituted as a party to
the controversy in place of the bankrupt. The matter was
heard before the referee, who reported in favor of the
trustee. The District Court overruled exceptions and
confirmed the report; and, on appeal, the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. the decree. 212 Fed. Rep. 688. The
appeal to this court antedated the Act of January 28,
1915, ch. 22, §§ 4 & 6; 38 Stat. 803, 804.
The principal question is whether the chattel mortgage
was properly acknowledged and recorded so as to be valid
against the trustee in bankruptcy.
. The law of Illinois respecting chattel mortgages may be
found in ch. 95 of Hurd's Rev. Stat. 1909. Paragraph 1
provides that no such mortgage shall be valid as against
the rights and interests of any third person unless possession shall be delivered to and remain with the grantee,

FAIRBANKS SHOVEL CO. v. WILLS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or the instrument shall, provide for the possession of the
property to remain with the grantor and the instrument
be acknowledged and recorded as thereinafter directed.
Paragraph 2 provides that such instrument shall be
acknowledged before a specified officer of "the county
where the mortgagor resides," if a resident of the State,
with a proviso that in counties having a population of
more than 200,000 (this applies to Cook County), such
instrument, "if the mortgagor is a resident of the State,"
shall be acknowledged before one of several designated
officers of the town, precinct, district, or county "in
wiich the mortgagor resides." By par. 4, the mortgage,
when so acknowledged, "shall be admitted to record by
the recorder of the county in which the mortgagor shall
reside at the time when the instrumeni is executed and
recorded."
The bankrupt was incorporated in the year 1905 under
a general act (Hurd's Rev. Stat. 1909, ch. 32), the second,
paragraph of which requires the organizers to make, subscribe,, and acknowledge a statement setting forth the
name of the proposed corporation, the object for which
it is formed, its capital stock, the location of the principal
office, etc., which is to be filed in the 6ffice of the Secretary
of State. If the object of the proposed corporation is
clearly and definitely stated and is a lawful object, the
Secretary of State issues to the corporators a license as
commissioners to open books for subscription to the capital
stock. After the stock is subscribed, directors or managers
elected, etc., the Secretary of State (par. 4) issues a certificate of the complete organization of the corporation.
But, before this is done, the corporation must "file with
the Secretary of State a statement setting forth the postoffice address of its business office, giving street and
number." (Act of May 10, 1901; Laws 1901, p. 124;
Hurd's Rev. Stat. 1909, ch. 32, par. 192.)
-Other sections (ch. 32, par. 50 et seq.) contain elaborate

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

provisions to be complied with when the directors of any
corporation "may desire to change the name, to change
the place of business, to enlarge or change the object for
which such corporation was formed, to increase or decrease the capital stock," etc. There is to be a special
meeting of the stockholders, called on notice mailed to
each stockholder and published in a newspaper, and votes
representing two-thirds of all the stock of the corporation
shall be necessary for the adoption of the proposed change;
an appropriate certificate is to be filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, and a like certificate made a matter
of record in the county where the principal business office
of the corporation is located; and a notice of the change
is also to be published in a newspaper for three successive
weeks.
The statement made by the organizers of the bankrupt
corporation declared: "The location of the principal office
is in the City of Chicago, in the County of Cook, and
State of Illinois." A license was issued to them as commissioners to open books for subscription to the capital
stock, and in due course they made their report to the
Secretary of State, in which it was stated: "That the
post-office address of the business office of said company
is at No. - Park Hotel, streets not numbered, in the
City of Beardstown, in the County of Cass, and State of
Illinois." Upon receipt of this, the Secretary of State
issued a certificate of complete organization, including in
it the first statement, the report of the commissioners,
and other papers filed in his office respecting the organization of the corporation, as required by the statute. The
first meetings of the stockholders were held in Chicago,
and another stockholders' meeting was held there about
two years later. All other recorded meetings of stockholders and directors were held in Beardstown. An office
was nominally maintained in Chicago, but no records or
books of account were kept nor any business transacted

FAIRBANKS SHOVEL CO. v. WILLS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there. So far as the practical conduct of the business
was concerned, and to all outward appearances, the principal office was in Beardstown. But no change of "the
place of business" was made in the manner prescribed by
the statute.
The chattel mortgage was made, acknowledged, and
recorded in Cass County, and was never either recorded
or acknowledged in Cook County.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held, affirming the District Court, that the "residence" of the bankrupt was in
Chicago, which is in Cook County, and that therefore the
mortgage, having never been properly acknowledged or
recorded, was invalid as against the trustee in bankruptcy.
This, in our opinion, was a correct disposition of the
question. The statutes of Illinois recognize the propriety
of a fixed location for the principal office of a corporation,
requiring this to be specified in the certificate of organization and to be left unchanged except on formal action
by two-thirds in interest of the stockholders. Whether
"principal office" and "business office" are synonymous
is not entirely clear, and we are referred to no decision by
the state courts throwing light upon this. But, supposing
them to be synonymous, it does not seem to us that the
report of the commissioners for stock subscriptions can
have the effect of establishing the office in Cass County,
for we find no authority in the commissioners to materially
change the location of the principal office as formally
declared by the organizers.
We are of opinion that a corporation organized under
the laws of Illinois is to be deemed a resident of the State
within the meaning of the chattel mortgage act, and that
the county of its residence must be taken to be the county
in which its principal office is located. So far as the decisions of the state courts throw light upon the question
they bear ouf this view. Bank of North America v.
Chicago &c. R. R., 82 Illinois, 493, 496; Hewitt v. General

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Electric Co., 164 Illinois, 420, 425. And a similar view
prevails in other jurisdictions. In Exparte Schollenberger,
96 U. S. 369, 377, this court, by Mr. Chief Justice Waite,
said: "A corporation cannot change its residence or its
citizenship. It can have its legal home only at the place
where it is located by or under the authority of its charter;
but it may by its agents transact business anywhere,
unless prohibited by its charter or excluded by local laws."
And in Galveston &c. Ry. v. Gonzales, 151 U. S. 496, 504,
the court, by Mr. Justice Brown, said: "In the case of a
corporation the question of inhabitancy must be determined, not by the residence of any particular officer, but
by the principal offices of the corporation, where its books
are kept and its corporate business is transacted, even
though it may transact its most important business in
another place." A case in point with the present is First
Natl. Bank v. Wilcox, 72 Washington, 473. And see
Western TransportationCo. v. Scheu, 19 N. Y. 408; Union
Steamboat Co. v. Buffalo, 82 N. Y. 351, 355; Pelton v.
Transportation Co., 37 Oh. St. 450; Jenkins v. California
Stage Co., 22 California, 538; Cohn v. Central Pacific
R. R., 71 California, 488.
It is hardly necessary to say that whatever equities, if
any, arose out of the mortgagor's representation that its
principal place of business was at Beardstown, or out of
the fact that the mortgage was given to secure a part of the
purchase price of the dredge, were confined in their effect
to the immediate parties, and could not operate to estop
the trustee in bankruptcy, representative of the interests
of creditors for whose protection the recording act was
passed.
It is objected by appellant that a determination that the
bankrupt corporation had its principal place of business
and therefore its residence in Cook County, which is in the
Northern District, shows at the same time that the
United States District Court for the Southern District of

FAIRBANKS SHOVEL CO. v. WILLS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Illinois had no jurisdiction to entertain the proceeding in
bankruptcy under § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act, and hence
no jurisdiction over the present controversy. (See Harris
v. FirstNat'l Bank, 216 U. S. 382.) As to this, the Circuit
Court of Appeals correctly held that appellant, by answering and making defense upon the merits, consented to the
jurisdiction, so that whetber, under §§ 23a and 23b, construed together with § 70e as amended, consent to the
jurisdiction of the District Court was required need not be
considered.
On like grounds, it is insisted that the adjudication of
bankruptcy was invalid, and that the trustee had no
capacity to sue. But the adjudication is not open to
collateral attack, and the question of capacity was waived
because not raised in the trial court.
Appellant's title was not perfected, as against the trustee
in bankruptcy, by taking possession of the dredge under
the mortgage after the filing of the petition in bankruptcy
and before the adjudication. Since the amendment of
§ 47a-2 of the Bankruptcy Act by the Act of June 25,
1910 (ch. 412, § 8; 36 Stat. 838,. 840), trustees have the
rights and remedies of a lien creditor or a judgment
creditor as against an unrecorded transfer. The estate
was in custodia legis from the filing of the petition, and the
title of the trustee related back to that date. Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S. 300, 307;
Everett v. Judson, 228 U. S. 474, 478.
Other questions are raised, but they are unsubstantial
and require no particular mention.
Decree affirmed.

