JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.,

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 161.

Argued January 12, 1916.-Decided March'20, 1916.

Under the provisions relating to town sites in the Atoka Agreement
between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes
(found in Act of June 28, 1898, c. 517; 30 Stat. 495, 505, 508);
the preferential right to purchase improved town lots was conferred
upon the owner of "permanent, substantial, and valuable improvemerits, other than fences, tillage, and temporary houses," without
regard to the lawfulness or unlawfulness of -the previous possession
of the land by the owner of the improvements.
Under the provisions of the Atoka Agreement relating to purchase
of town lots-(30 Stat. 508), and regulations contained in subsequent
legislation, authority to appraise lots, improved or unimproved, to
ascertain the ownership and value' of the' improvements, and to
dispose of the lots in conformity to the provisions of the Agreement,
was conferred upon the town site commission, and afterwards upon
the United States Indian Inspector, subject to the supervision of
the Secretary of the Interior.
In case of contest, the findings of fact by the Commission or the Inspector, affirmed on final appeal by the Secretary of the Interior,
are binding upon the courts, in the absence of gross mistake or
fraud, and the judicial inquiry is lirmited to determining whether
there was clear error of law that resulted in awarding the right
of purchase, and ultimately issuing the patent, to the wrong party.
The Atoka Agreement (Act of June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 505,
508), when ratified by Congress and by t.e Choctaw and Chickasaw
tribes, superseded all customs, if such there were, that had sanctioned the leasing of town lots to non-citizens of the tribes; and
its provisions could not be carried' into' effect without terminating
existing rights of occupancy, if any, saving as these coincided-with
the ownership of permanent improvements.
A tenant is not estopped to show that his landlord's title has expired
or has been teriiinated by operation of law.
That a tenant holding a town lot in the Chickasaw district of the
Choctaw Nation, under lease 'from a non-citizen having no rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

240 U. S.

in the land, had retained possession after refusal to pay rent, thereby
preventing the landlord from erecting improvements such as described in the Atoka Agreement, (lid not estop the tenant who had
erected substantial and permanent improvements thereon from
acquiring the lot in his own right under the provisions of the Agreement.
41 Oklahoma, 759, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to a town lot in the
town of Chickasha in the Chickasaw District of the
Choctaw. Nation, and the construction and application of
the townsite provisions of the Atoka Agreement, the Curtis
Act and other statutes affecting the property of the Chickasaw and Choctaw. tribes, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. B. Ames, with whom Mr. Alger Melton was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The decision of the townsite board as approved by the
Secretary of the Interior was based on an erroneous proposition, to-wit, that the effect of the Atoka Agreement was
to terminate the relation of landlord and tenant. Ellis v.
Fitzpatrick, 64. S. W. Rep. 567; Ellis v. Fitzpatrick, 118
Fed. Rep. 430; Fraer v. Washington, 125 Fed. Rep. 280;
Shy v. Brockhouse, 7 Oklahoma, 35; Walker Trading Co.
v. Grady Trading'Co.,39 S. W. Rep. 354; Kelly v. Johnson,
39 S. W. Rep. 352; Williams v. Works, 76 S. W. Rep. 246.
Under the Atoka Agreement as embodied in the Curtis
Act which provides that the owner of the improvements
shall have the right to buy one residence and one business
lot at fifty per cent of the appraised value, a tenant who
has wrongfully withheld possession of such a lot from his
landlord, thereby preventing his landlord from erecting
improvements thereon, cannot acquire title to the lot as
against the landlord. Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276;
Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307; Atherton v. Fowler,
96 U. S. 513; Ricks v. Reed, 19 California, 551; Goode v.
Gains, 145 U. S. 141; Trenouth v. San Francisco, 100 U. S.

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

251; Hagar v. Wikoff, 2 Oklahoma, 580; Downman v.
Saunders, 3 Oklahoma, 227.
The tenant having acquired a deed in-violation of the
rights of his landlord holds the title as trustee for his
landlord. Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276; Baldwin v.
Clark,,107 U. S. 463; Wallace v. Adams, 143 Fed. Rep. 716;
James v. Germania Iron Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 597; Trice v.
Comstock, 121 Fed. Rep."620;.Bertranv. Cook, 32 Michigan,
518.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. C. B. Stuart,
Mr. W. A. Ledbetter and Mr. A. C. Cruce, were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an'action of ejectment, commenced before
the admission of Oklahoma as a State in the United States
Court for the Southern District of the Indian Territory,
and brought to a conclusion in the state courts. There
have been many changes of interest pendente lite, and
corresponding changes of parties. The original plaintiffs
were Riddle, now defendant in eftor,. and one Cook, whose
interest Riddle has since acquired. The interests of the
original defendants have been acquired by plaintiffs
in error through mesne conveyances that will be stated
below. The subject of the action is a town lot in the town
of Chickasha, in the Chickasaw district of the Choctaw
Nation, to which plaintiff claimed title by purchase under
the townsite provisions of the Atoka Agreement With the
Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, found in the act of Congress known as the Curtis Act (June 28, 1898, ch. 517;
30 Stat. 495, 505, 508), followed by a patent executed,
after the commencement of the action, in accordance with
the supplemental agreement with the same tribes (Act
of July 1, 1902, ch. 1362, § 51; 32 Stat. 641, 653), and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

set up in a supplemental complaint. The defendants
admitted the legal title to be in Riddle, but by crosscomplaint sought to have him declared a trustee for their
benefit and decreed to convey the title to them. A judgment refusing to declare such a trust, and awarding the
lot to Riddle, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma (41 Oklahoma, 759), and the case is brought here,
under § 237, Jud. Code, upon the ground that the decision
was against rights set up by plaintiffs in error under the7
provisions of the Agreement.
The facts are as follows: Some years prior to the making
of the Agreement, one Fitzpatrick, a white man not entitled to citizenship in any Indian tribe, made a lease of the
lot in controversy, then vacant and unimproved, to one
Barnhart, who went into possession and erected a substantial house and other improvements, which were to
belong to him, subject to the payment of a ground rent
to Fitzpatrick. There is nothing to show what right
Fitzpatrick claimed or that in fact he had any right to
seize upon vacant tribal lands and contract concerning
them as he did. In the year 1897, Barnhart sold the improvements and transferred the possession of the lot to one
Ellis who entered into possession and made further improvements. About April 1, 1898, Ellis refused to pay
rent, and on July 7,in the same year, Fitzpatrick brought
a suit for unlawfull detainer against him in the United
States Court,' alleging, in an amended complaint filed in
February, 1899, that he desired possession for the purpose
of being able to place upon the lot such improvements as
would protect his right to the land under the provisions
of the Agreement. Fitzpatrick prevailed in the United
States Court, and, on appeal, in the Court of Appeals for
th6 Indian Territory (Ellis v. Filzpatrick,3 Ind. Ter. 656;
64 S.W. Rep. 567), and also in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the.Eighth Circuit, whose decision was rendered
October 27, 1902 (118 Fed. Rep. 430; 55 C. C. A. 260).

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Meanwhile Ellis retained possession by means of a supersedeas bond.
In February, 1902, the Townsite Commission for the
Chickasaw Nation, organized pursuant to the provisions
of the Atoka Agreement, visited Chickasha for the purpose
of appraising town lots and awarding them to persons
having the preferential right to purchase under the terms
of the Agreement. Ellis having conveyed his rights to
Riddle and Cook, the lot was scheduled "to them, and on
June 12, 1902, they were notified that they had the right
to purchase it. A week later they availed themselves of
this right by paying to the United. States Indian Agent
the proper-percentage of the appraised value to make up
the full purchase price of the lot, and took from him a
proper receipt.
Pending the unlawful detainer suit, Fitzpatrick conveyed whatever interest he had in the lot to a Mrs. Cross,
and she conveyed an undivided half interest to one Bourland. In January, 1903, after the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, Bourland and Cross obtained possession
of the lot with the improvements, and in the following
month the present action of ejectment was commenced
by Riddle and Cook against Fitzpatrick and the persons
in possession. Thereafter Bourland and Cross conveyed
their interest to E. B. and H. B. Johnson, the present
plaintiffs in error, and they were substituted as defendants. Riddle bought the interest of Cook, and thus became the sole plaintiff. Pending the action, a contest was
instituted, either by Bourland and Cross or by the Johnsons, against Riddle and Cook, concerning the award
and scheduling of the lot tQ the latter. . The townsite
commission having been abolished by the Secretary of the
Interior pursuant to Act of March 3, 1905, ch. 1479; 33
Stat. 1048, 1059; the contest was heard before the United
States Indian Inspector assigned to the Indian Territory,
upon whom this duty was imposed by regulations ap-

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

proved by the Secretary. Rep. Ind. Inspec., 1905, pp. 5,
22, 23; House Doc. No. 5, 59th Cong., 1st 'Sess., vol. 19,
pp. 705, 722, 723. The Inspector made full findings of
fact,'and in an elaborate opinion decided in favor of contestees. Upon appeal this decision was affirmed by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and upon appeal to the
Secretary of the Interior it was again affirmed. These
decisions proceeded upon findings to the effect that at the
time of the ratification of the Atoka Agreement and at the
time the townsite of Chickasha was laid out by the Townsite Commission, and when the-plats prepared by the Commission were finally' approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, Ellis was the owner of permanent, substantial,
and valuable improvements, other than fences, tillage, and
temporary houses, on said lot; that none of these improvements was in any way in issue in'
the unlawful detainer
suit, and Ellis' ownership of them was not denied or disputed, but on the contrary was admitted by Fitzpatrick
in his pleadings, and they were in no way adjudicated
upon in that suit; that Riddle and Cook afterwards purchased the improvements fromh Ellis, and having received
notice from the Townsite Commission, as already mentioned, of their right to purchase the lot under the provi,
sions of the Atoka Agreement, they forwarded to the
United States Indian Agent the proper percentage of the
appraisement to make up the full purchase' price of the
lot, and received his receipt for the same. After the final
determination of the contest before the Department of the
Inteior, a patent was issued to Riddle and his associate,
dated in May, 1907.
The Atoka Agreement between the United States and
the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, negotiated April 23,
1897, amended by § 29 of thp Curtis Act (June 28, 1898,
ch. 517, 30 Stat. 495, 505), and thereby submitted for
ratification by the members of the tribes, was ratified by a
majority of votes at a special el ctibn held on August 24,

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1898, the result of which was ascertained and proclaimed

on August 30th by a board of commissioners for that
purpose designated by the Act, and the Agreement thus
became effective. (See 6th Ann; Rep. Dawes Comm.,
September 1, 1899, House Doc. No. 5, 56th-Cong., 1st

Sess., Vol. 19, p. 9; Homer's Const. and Laws of Chickasaw
Nation, 1899, p. 420.) It contains provisions respecting
townsites (30 Stat. 508), of which the pertinent portions
are set forth in the margin. 1

Regulatory provisions, embodied in an Act of May 31,
'"TowN SimEs. It is further agreed that there shall be appointed a
commission for each of the two nations. . . . Each of said commissions
shall lay out town sites, to be restricted as far as possible to their present
limits, where towns are now located in the nation for which said commission is appointed. . . . When said towns are so laid out, each
lot on which permanent, substantial and valuable improvements, other
than fences, tillage, and temporary houses, have been made, shall be
valued by the 'commission provided for the nation in which the town
is located at, fhe price a fee-simple title to the same would bring in the
market at the time the valuation is made, but not to include in such
value the improvements thereon. The owner of the improvements
on each lot shall have the right to buy one residence and one business
lot at fifty p~er centum of the appraised value of such improved property, and the remainder of such improved property at sixty-two and
one-half per centum of the said market value within sixty days from
date of notice served on him that such lot is for sale, and if he purchases
the same he shall, within ten days from his purchase, pay into the
treasury of the United States one-fourth.of the purchase price, and the
balance in three equal annual installments, and when the entire sum
is paid shall be entitled to a patent for the same. . . . If such
owner of the improvements on any lot fails within sixty days to purchase and make the first payment on same, srch lot, with the improvements thereon, shall be sold at public auction to the highest bidder,
under the direction of the aforesaid commission, and the purchaser at
such sale shall pay to the owner of the improvements the price for
which said lot shall be sold, less sixty-two and one-half per cent. of
said appraised value of the lot, and shall pay the sixty-two and one-half
per *cent. of said appraised value into the United States Treasury. . . . All lots not so appraised shall be sold from time to
time at public auction.
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

1900 .(ch.598; 31 Stat. 221, 237, 238), were assented to
by the Choctaws and Chickasaws in the supplemental
agreement (Act of July 1, 1902, ch. 1362; -32 Stat. 641,
652), and other regulations were thereby added. Authority to appraise town lots, improved or unimproved, to
ascertain the ownership and value of the improvements,
and to dispose of the lots in conformity to the provisions
of the Agreement, was thereby conferred upon the townsite commission, subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior. (See Ross v. Steudart, 227 U. S.530,
534.) Their unfinishd('duties were devolved upon'the
Secretary by the Act of 1905, under whose authority the
Indian Inspector acted as already shown. The Supreme
,Court of Oklahoma therefore was correct in holding that
the findings of the Inspector respecting matters of fact,
affirmed on final appeal by the Secretary, were binding
upon the courts, in the ab~ence of gross mistake or fraud
(neither of which is here present), and that the judicial
inquiry is limited.t9 determining whether there was clear
error of law that resulted in awarding the preferential right
of purchase, and ultimately issuing the patent, to the
*rong party. Johnson v" Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 85; Shepley V. CGwan, 91 U. S.330, 3404 Marquez v. Frisbie, 101
U., S.473, 476; Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S. 338, 342;
Ro88 v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 116.
Since, the findings are to the effect that the improvements upon the lot were owned' by Ellis, And by defendant in error through a purchase from him, the contentions
of plaintiffs in error are reduced to these: that the decision of the IndianlInspector, approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, to, the effect that, the Atoka Agreement terminated the relation of landlord" and tenant, was based
upon an erroneous construction of the iAgreemeiit, and
ignored the equities of the landlord as against the tenant;
that under a correct construction of the provision permitting the owner of the improvements to buy a town lot

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.

240 U. S.'.

Opinion of the Court.

at a fraction of the appraised value, a tenant who wrongfully withheld possession of such a lot from his landlord,
thereby preventing him from erecting improvements
thereon, could not acquire title to the lot as against the
landlord; and that a tenant who, under the provisions of
the Agreement, but in violation of the rights of his landlord, has acquired a deed for such a lot, holds the title as
trustee for the landlord.
The Atoka Agreement of course is to be read in the light
of the conditions out of which it arose. The Choctaw
Indians acquired the territory in question under a treaty
with the United States made at: Dancing Rabbit Creek
in the year 1830, Sept. 27 (7 Stat. 333). In accordance with the provisions of the treaty, and pursuant to
authority conferred by Act of May 28, 1830 (h. 148,
§ 3) 4 Stat. 411, 412), a patent was issued by the President
of the United States, March 23, 1842, granting the land
to the Choctaw Nation, "in fee simple to them and their
descendants, to inure to them, while they shall exist as a
nation and live on it, liable to no transfer or alienation,
except to the United States, or with their consent."
(Durant's Const. & Laws of Choctaw Nation, 1894, p. 31.)
In 1837 the Choctaws -entered 'into a treaty with the
Chickasaws, by which the latter were privileged to form a
district within the limits of the Choctaw country, "to be
held on the same terms that the Choctaws now hold it,
except the right of disposing of it, which is held in common
with the Choctaws and Chickasaws." This received the
approval of the President and Senate of the United States.
January 17, 1837, 11 Stat. 573, 57 . In the year 1855 a
new treaty ,was made between the United States and these
.tribes (June:22, 1855, 11 Stat. 611), by which the boundaries. of their countiy were defined'and the Unitbd States
guaranteed the lands embraced within the specified limits
"to the members of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes,
their heirs and successors, to be held in common; so that

.47 6

. OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

each and every member of either tribe shall have an equal,
undivided interest in the whole; Provided, however, no
part thereof shall ever be sold without the consent of both
tribes; and that said land shall,reveit to the United States
if said Indians.and their heirs become extinct, or abandon
the same." The westerly part of the country was established as a district for the Chickasaws, the easterly part
for the Choctaws., After the Civil War, and in the year
1866, a new treaty was made, by the' eleventh articl of
which it wasrecited that the land described in the treaty of
1855 "is now held by the members of said nations in common, under the provisions of the said treaty." April 28,
1866, 14 Stat. 769, 774. A plan for a survey,division, and
allotment of the land was proposed by the same article,
but this came to naught because of the non-assent of the
Choctaw people. ' Woodward v. deGraffenried, 238 U. S.
284, 294. Thus matters remained until, in'the course of
time, the influx of white people into this and-other parts
of the Indian Territory created a new situation of great
complexity, calling for a readjustment of the affairs of the
Five Civilized Tribes. !n 1893 the Dawes Commission
was appointed, under authority of an act of Congress
(March 3,' 1893, ch. 209, § 16, 27 Stat. 612, 645), to enter
into negotiations with those tribes for the purpose of extinguishing the tribal titles to lands.- The annual reportsof the Commission, a 'reference list of which is printed in
238 U. S. 296, give a complete and instructive account of
its labors. The first of these reports, dated November 20,
'1894, shows that among the original propositions submitted to the several, tribes as a basis of negotiations it
was suggested that townsites should be the subject of
special agreements, such as would secure to the Indians
and to investors "a just protection and adjustment of
their respective rights.", In explanation. it was stated:
"There are towns in the Territoiy ranging in population
from a few people to 5,000 inhabitants, Nearly all of

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

. Many large and valuable
them are noncitizens.
stone, brick, and wooden buildings have been erected by
noncitizens of these towns, 'and the lots on which they
stand are worth many thousands of dollars. These town
sites are not susceptible of division among the Indians,
and the only practicable method of adjusting the equities
between the tribes who own the sites and those who constructed the buildings is to appraise the lots without the
improvements and the improvements without the lots,
and allow the owners of the improvements to purchase
the lots at the appraised value, or to sell lot and improvements and divide the money. according to the appraisement." House Ex. Doc., Part 5, 53d Cong., 3d Sess.,
Vol. 1-4, pp. lxii, lxv.
The first agreement to be negotiated by the Commission
was with the Choctaws under date December 18, 1896,
but the Chickasaws refused to concur in this, and another
was, negotiated at Atoka, April 23, 1897, with both tribes.
In its original form it is appended to the Fourth Report of
the Commission, dated October 11, 1897 (House Doc. No.
5, 55th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 12, pp. cxvii,, cxxii). It provided that a townsite commission should be appointed for
each of the two nations; that each existing town site should
be laid out and platted, and that "each lot, on which
permanent, substantial and valuable improvements, other
than fences, tillage, and temporary houses, have been
made, shall be valued by the commission . . . at the
price a fee simple title to the same would bring in the market at the time the valuation is made, but not to include
in such value the improvements thereon. The owner of
the improvemehts on each lot shall have the right to buy
the same at' sixty-two and one-half per cent. of the said
market value, within sixty days from date of notice served
on hin that such lot is for sale." It further provided that
if the owner of the improvements should fail to purchase,
the lot with improvements should be sold at auction, the

-OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

.240 U. S.

purchaser to pay the price to the owner of the' improveefients, less sixty-two and one-half per cent. of the appraised value of the lot, which was to be paid Mnto the
United States Treasury for the .benefit of. the Indians.
This agreement, with some amendments, was ratified by
Congress in §29 of the Curtis Act and afterwards ratified
by the voters of' the, two tribes, as already mentioned.
The provision as ,to purchase of town' lots was amended
only by giving to the owner of the improvements the right
to 'buy one residence and 'one business lot at fifty per
centum, and the remainder of such improved property at
sixty-two and one-half per centun, of the appraised
market value.
The same Act contained, in its fifteenth section (June 28,
1898, c., 517,. 30 Stat. 495, 500) a'provision for the appointment of a towhsite commission for each of, the Chickasaw,
Choctaw, Creek, and Cherokee tribes; allowing "the
owner of, the improvements upon any town lot, other than
fencing, tillage, or temporary buildings," to deposit in the
United States Treasury one-half of the appraised value of
the lot excluding improvements, as a tender to the tribe
of the purchase money for the lot; and permitting improved lots to be sold at auction if the owner of the improvemefits thereon failed to deposit the purchase-money
within a limited time, in which case' the purchaser at
auction.might by appropriate proceedings' in' the Unitep,
States Court require the owner of the improvements to
either accept their appraised value or remove the improve•ments from the lot. The same section provided, for the
sale 'of unimproved lots, the purchase-money to be deposited with like effect as in the 'case of improved lots; and
authorized the" tribes to make deeds to 'the purchasers
conveying the title to, such town lots, whereupon the
purchase-money was to become 'the property of the tribe.
hese provisions would appear to have been superseded,
as to the :Choctiw and Chickasaw tribes, by their accept-

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ance of the Atoka Agreement, and are mentioned only to
show that iii § 15, as in the Agreement, it was the owner
of the impiovements, and he alone, who was recognized as
entitled to be considered in the sale of the town lots.
It is not necessary to say that the Agreement, when thus
ratified by Congress and by the tribes, became the law of
the land, and superseded all customs, if such there were,
that had sanctioned the making of leases to non-citizens.
By its terms tbwns, so far as they had been established
within the domain of. the tribes, were recognized, and
provision'was made for platting them, and for selling the
lots, both improved and unimproved, the proceeds to
become the property of the tribes. It was recognized that
the money expended by white men in constructing the
buildings and other permanent improvements had increased the value not only of the improved lots but of all
lands within the town;- and hence a preferential right of
purchase was conferred upon "the owner of the improvements on each lot." But there is nothing in the history
of the matter, any more than in the language employed,
to give the least countenance to the suggestion that prior
rights of occupancy were intended to be recognized in this
Agreement. Ownership of improvements actually upon
the soil was adopted as the sole foundation of the newly
cohferred right to acquire title to the soil itself. And these
improvements must be "permanent, substantial, and valuable improvements, other than fences, tillage, and temporary houses." The exclusion of these latter, indicative
merely of occupancy, is highly significant.
The provisions of the Agreement respecting the sale of
town lots could not be carried into effect without terminating existing rights of occupancy, if such there were, saving
as
these coincided with the ownership' of permanent improvements.
Hence, if Fitzpatrick had any right to the
soil, it came to an end either when the Agreement took
effect in August, 1898, or, at latest, when its townsite pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

visions were put in operation at Chickasha. It is insisted
that Ellis, as tenant, was estopped to deny his landlord's
title, and that Riddle is in no better case. Elight's Lessee
v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535, 547. But a tenant is not
estopped to show that his landord's title has expired or
has been terminated by operation of law. England v.
Slade, 4 T. R. 682; Blake v. Foster, 8 T. R. 487; Neave
v. Moss, 1 Bing. 360; Hopcraft v. Keys, 9 Bing. 613; Doe d.
Higginbotham v. Barton, 11 Ad. & El. 307; Den ex dem.
Howell v. Ashmore, 22 N. J. L. 261, 265; Shields v.. Lozear,
34 N. J. L. 496, 500; Hilbourn v. Fogg, 99 Massachusetts,
11; Lamson v. Clarkson, 113 Massachusetts, 348.
The argument that Ellis, by withholding possession of
the lot from Fitzpatrick, prevented him from erecting
improvements such as would have satisfied the requirements of the Atoka Agreement so as to confer upon Fitzpatrick the preferential right to purchase the lot, and
hence that Ellis and those claiming under him are estopped to purchase the land for themselves and must be
held to have acquired it in trust for Fitzpatrick and those
claiming under him, cannot prevail. The facts do not
show that Ellis' refusal to pay rent, and his resistance
to the forcible entry and detainer suit, were other than
bona fide. Nor does it appear that Fitzpatrick, even
before the Atoka Agreement, had any right of possession
of the land as against the Indians. So far as the facts appear, he had no rights at all, except as against the tenant,
and against him only because of the estoppel. In order
to show that the tenant, by withholding possession, deprived the landlord of the opportunity of exercising a
valuable right, it must be made to appear that, with the
tenant out of the way, the right would have existed. But,
if Ellis had given up possession, Fitzpatrick would have
had no more right, than any other white man to enter and
erect improvements-that is to say, none at all. At most,
he would have had a mere opportunity, without right,

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the deprivation of this cannot furnish a foundation
for impressing a trust upon the title afterwards acquired
by Ellis' grantee by direct purchase from the ownets of the
paramount title. Even were it made to appear that there
was error in adjudging the title to the patentee, this
would not raise a trust in favor of the contestant unless
he could show that by the law, properly administered, the
title ought to have been awarded to him. Bohall v. Dilla,
114 U. S. 47, 51; Sparks v. Pierce, 115 U. S. 408, 413.
What, then, was the nature of Fitzpatrick's equity?
Under the facts found, both he and Ellis were trespassers
upon the lands of the Indians, in disregard of rights secured to the latter by treaty with the United States, and
in violation of § 2118, Rev. Stat.. The lease. created a
mere estoppel between trespassers. The rights, if they
may be called rights, of lessor and lessee alike were terminated by the force of the Agreement. Individual
ownership of the land originated with that instrument,
and can be only such as by its terms were created. It
was competent for Congress; 'or for the Indian tribes, With
the concurrence of Congress, to deal as they deemed
proper with the practical situation resulting from the
building of towns by white men within their borders.
They chose to confer a-preferential right of purchase, at a
discount from the appraised value, not upon the "occupant," or "possessor," or "landlord," or "tenant," but
upon "the owner of the improvements" other than those
of a temporary nature. This did not cut off any pertinent
equity, but it rendered all equities impertinent except such
as related to the ownership of the improvements.
The Atoka Agreement, while accepting existing improvements of a substantial nature as part consideration
for the purchase of town lots, contained no recognition of
legitimacy in the previous occupation of the soil by white
men, nor any official ratification of their intrusion upon
the Indian lands. Itlaid aside, as immaterial, the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

whether improvements had been constructed with or without rightful possession of the land. In this respect it
differed from the Original Creek Agreement of March 8,
1900 (Act of March 1, 1901', ch. 676; 31 Stat. 861, 866),
the proposed Cherokee agreement of April 9, 1900 (Act of
March 1, 1901, ch. 675; 31 Stat. 848, 853), which failed of
ratification by the tribe (8th Ann. Rep. Dawes Comm.,
Oct. 1, 1901; House Doc. No. 5, 57th Cong., 1st Sess.,
Vol. 24, p. 11), and the Cherokee agreement of July 1,
1902 (ch. 1375; 32 Stat. 716, 723), which was ratified by
the tribe (10th Ann. Rep. Dawes Comm., Sept. 30, 1903;
House Doc. No. 5, 58th Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 20, p. 115).
If Fitzpatrick had had any equitable right or interest
in the improvements upon the lot in controversy, a very
different question would be presented. But he had none.
We are referred to two decisions of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory that are said
to uphold the legal validity of grants of leasehold interests
in lands in the Choctaw and Chickasaw country prior to
the Atoka Agreement. Kelly v. Johnson (1897), 1 Ind.
Ter. 184, 189; 39 S. W. Rep. 352, 354; G. W. Walker
Trading Co. v. Grady Trading Co. (1897), 1 Ind. Ter. 191,

196-198; 39 S. W. Rep. 354, 356. These cases, however,
go no further than to hold that a pogsessory right might
pass by transfer from a citizen of one of the Indian tribes
to a non-citizen, and would protect the latter against
forcible entry by others not showing a better right to the
possession, nor acting under authority of the tribe, and
that a lease of such lands with improvements estopped
the lessee to question the lessor's title. See, also, Wilson
v. Owens (1897), 1 Ind. Ter. 163; 38 S. W. Rep. 976;
affrined, 86 Fed. Rep. 571; Hockett v. Alston, 110 Fed.
Rep. 910, reversing S. C., 3 Ind. Ter. 432; 58 S. W. Rep.
675; Williams v. Works, 4 Ind. Ter. 587; 76 S. W. Rep.
246; Fraer v. Washington,,125 Fed. Rep. 280. These
decisions leave untouched the authority of Congress, with

JOHNSON v. RIDDLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or without th 9 consent of the tribe, to terminate all
possessory interests and disp-ose of the fee in any manner
deemed proper.
Much reliance is placed upon the decision of this court
in Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276, which turned upon the
effect of an act of Congress in relation to the Hot Springs
Reservation in the State of Arkansas (Act of March 3,
•1877, ch. 108; 19 Stat. 377). The statute was passed to
relieve the peculiar hardship resulting from a decision of
the Court of. Claims, affirmed by this court (Hot Springs
Cases, "92 U. S. 698, 713, 715, 716), holding invalid, for
reasons more or less technical, certain land titles set up
against the United States, some of them under claims of
preiemption and one under a New Madrid location, followed in each case by long years of possession. Rector v.
Gibbon construed the legislation in the light of the circumstances out of which it arose, and so as .to relieve.
those who had made improvements or claimed possession
under the titles that had been found defective. It has no
proper- bearing upon the questions presented in the case
at bar. Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307; Atherton v.
Fowler, 96 U. S. 513; and Trenouth v. San Francisco, 100
U. S. 251; cited by plaintiffs in error, -are likewise aside
from the point.
It is, perhaps, unnecessary to mention that the matter
at issue here is not concluded by the decision in Ellis Ar.
Fitzpatrick, 3 Ind. Ter. 656; 64 S. W. Rep. 567; S. C.,
affirmed 118 Fed. Rep. 430; 55 C. C. A. 260; for'that
case concerned only the right of possession as between'
landlord and tenant, and Ellis' ownership of the improvements was admitted in the' pleadings. The legal or
equitable title to the soil'was not involved.
From the views above expressed, it results that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma must be
Affirmed.

