OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

the suit brought to vacate it, and also having regard to
the comparative consequences of enforcing or refusing to
enforce it while that suit was undetermined, held that
it ought to be enforced by mandamus, if a suitable bond
was given to indemnify the railway company should the
order ultimately be vacated. In this we perceive no
deprivation of due process. The granting of an order or
writ to maintain or restore the status quo pending the
outcome of existing litigation, which really is what was
done here, has been practiced by the courts of the country
since before the Constitution was adopted, and the claim
that relief of this nature cannot be granted, even upon
condition that ample security be given to make good any
loss that may be sustained thereby, without encroaching
upon the due process of law secured by the Constitution
is manifestly without merit.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judgment is not final within the meaning.of § 237, Jud. Code,
and therefore that the writ of error should be dismissed.

WILLINK, EXECUTRIX, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 180.

Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

The mere location by the Secretary of War of a harbor line does not
amount to a taking of property within the line or its appropriation
to public use; nor does a taking result from the request of an officer
of the United States to a riparian owner to vacate if such request
is neither acceded to nor enforced.
The fact that the Government makes a contract to cut away land

WILLINK v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

within a harbor line location does not amount to a taking of such
land if there was no attempt to perform the contract.
Whatever rights a riparian owner may have in land below mean highwater line of a navigable and tidal river, they are subordinate to
the public right of navigation and the power of Congress to employ
all appropriate means to keep the river open and navigation unobstructed.
Congress may prevent renewal of existing obstructions below mean high
water, if navigation may be injuriously affected thereby, and the
owner is not entitled to compensation therefor.
'Inthis case, a riparian owner on the Savannah River was held not
to be entitled -to recover as upon an implied contract for taking
his property by reason of damages alleged to have been sustained
by him in consequence of the exercise of the power of Congress over
navigable waters.
38 Ct. Cl. 693; 49 Ct. Cl. 701, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of the owner of a
wharf in the harbor of the Savannah River to recover from
the Government as upon an implied contract for the taking
of his property in the improvement of that harbor, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
was on the brief, for appellant:
Appellant's right of recovery is based on the following
grounds:
The Government had the right to take this property
for the public use of harbor improvement.
This right was exercised by the following acts of governmental authorities:
The submission to Congress by the officers of the
Engineer Corps of the United States Army of a plan
which contemplated the taking of this very property and
the payment of damages for the same.
The approval of the plan by Congress through the making of appropriations for the same.
The action of the Secretary of War in the establishment
of a harbor line which took in this very property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

240 U. S.

The entering into a contract by an engineer officer of
the Army, approved by the Chief of Engineers, for cutting
off the land outside of the harbor line thus fixed.
The action of the engineer officer in charge of improvements in ordering Willink to desist from renewing his
piling and in ordering him to remove everything belonging
to him outside of the harbor line.
The action of the United States District Attorney in
threatening appellant with prosecution under the criminal
provisions of the River and Harbor Act, unless he desisted
from further obstruction, and removed such piling as
Captain Carter desired removed, i. e., all piling outside
the bulkhead line.
Appellant acquiesced in the taking of his property by
such ample authority, both legislative and executive;
acted the part of a good citizen in refraining from further
acts of ownership thereof or interfering with the projects
of improvements; and thus reserved his right to recover
compensation.
The opinion of the court below in its first paragraph
expresses regret at its inability to reach a conclusion
favorable to the claimant. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166; United States v. Great Falls Co., 112 U. S. 645;
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; United States v.
Welch, 217 U. S. 333, 338; United States v. Guzzard, 219
U. S. 180; Richards v. Washington Terminal Co., 233 U. S.
546.
Greenleaf v. Garrison,237 U. S. 251, distinguished, as the
invasion of the property in this case was of the land,-not
merely of the possessory rightr of a riparian owner in the
bed of adjacent navigable water.
The right of appellant to compensation does not rest
entirely upon the Fifth Amendment or other general provision of law. It is also based upon the fact that the approved project under which the land and wharves were
taken contemplated that they should be paid for, and the

WILLINK v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

estimate of appropriation included $45,000 for "the damages to private property" and "replacing wharves" and
Congress appropriated the sum so asked. Hence, the claim
rests also upon the direct provisions of an act of Congress.
There is no foundation for the view that the acts of
the officers of the United States stopped short of a taking
of the claimant's property. Everything was done under
full sanction of the Secretary of War. He in turn acted
under the authority of an act of Congress. Claimant was
not obliged to submit to the indignity of arrest and prosecution, in order to test his rights. On the contrary, he
acted as. a good citien, in conforming to the desires of the
officers of the Government, who were carrying out the
directions of the Secretary of War, and in suffering the
damage inflicted upon him, relying upon the courts for
redress in awarding him the "just compensation" assured
by the Constitution for the taking of his property. Pearsall v. Supervisors, 74 Michigan, 558; Janesville v. Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 288, 301; Forster v. Scott, 136 N. Y.
577; St. Louis v. Hill, 116 Missouri, 527, 534; Lewis on
Eminent Domain, §§ 95-101.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States:
Congress acted within its constitutional powers in authorizing the Secretary of War to establish the harbor
lines in the Savannah River. Greenleaf Lumber Co. v.
Garrison,237 U. S. 251, 258; § 12, Act of August 11, 1888,
25 Stat. c. 860, 400, 425.
In establishing the harbor line the Secretary of War was
simply attempting to carry out previous plans within the
power delegated to him by Congress. Union Bridge Company v. United States, 204 U. S. 364. As the agent of
Congress the Secretary's acts in the premises cannot be
questioned. Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 162;'
United States v. Chandler Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 64.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

240 U. S.

The establishment of the line of 1889 did not exhaust the
Secretary's power, but there remained to him authority to
change the line when and as often as the demands of
navigation in his judgment made it necessary. Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, supra;Monongahela Bridge Co.
v. United States, 216 U. S. 177, 194; Philadelphia Co. v.
Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 638.
The premises directly affected were within high water
and harbor lines of a navigable stream, and therefore the
Fifth Amendment cannot be invoked.
The Fifth Amendment cannot be invoked where the
right of appellant to the use of the river bed was subject
to a superior right of the Government, which had been
exercised.
Under the dominant right of the Government to improve navigation. its engineers could require the removal
of anything in the bed of the stream which obstructed
navigation. Cases supra.
Hence, when appellant constructed the wharf and marine railway withih the confines of the stream he did so
subject to subsequent action of Congress.
The damages complained of were not the result of direct
invasion by the Government, but the incidental consequence of a lawful exercise of governmental power.
The harbor line of March 4, 1889, was only on paper.
Prosser v. Nor. Pac. R. R., 152-U. S. 59.
Appellant was never ousted from his premises. Whatever damage resulted to him, such as cost of dredging
along his marine railroad and a loss of business consequent to the diminished depth of water and his inabiiity
to dock large vessels, occurred from the fact that the improvements affected were within the cofines of a navigable stream. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269;
United States v. Bedford, 192 U. S. 217.
Appellant's contention being predicated upon tortious
acts of government officials, the Court of Claims was with-

WILLINK v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

out jurisdiction. Langford v. United States, 101 U. S.
341-346; Bigby v. United States, 188 U. S. 400, 410;
Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593, 599.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
Henry F. Willink sued to reCover as upon an implied
contract for an alleged taking of his property in the improvement of the harbor in the Savannah River at Savannah, Georgia. A recovery was denied, 38 Ct. Cls. 693;
49 Ct. Cls. 701, and the claimant's executrix prosecutes
this appeal.
The material facts disclosed by the findings are these:
At Savannah the river is navigable and within the ebb and
flow of the tide. Opposite the city is Hutchinson's Island,
a strip of which on the side towards the city was owned
by the claimant. He there conducted a plant for repairing
vessels. Among his facilities used in the business were a
marine railway and a wharf. The former extended into
the river and was protected by sheet piling "where in the
water." A substantial portion of it lay below the mean
high-water line, and the wharf seems also to have been
below that line, although its location is not precisely
stated. In the conduct of the claimant's business the
vessels subjected to repair were drawn out of the river
and lowered into it by means of the railway, and to prevent
its lower end, "which was under water at high. tide,"
from becoming seriously obstructed by deposits of mud
the piling was driven on both sides. The piling was
effectual for the purpose, but decayed in time and had
toIPrior
be replaced.
to 1887 many improvements had been made
in
the harbor, and in that year a plan for further and extensive improvements was submitted to Congress, but was
not approved, Among other changes this plan contem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

plated a widening of the river by cutting away a portion
of Hutchinson's Island including that whereon the claimant's facilities were situate. On May 4, 1889, the harbor
line, which theretofore had not reached the island or the
claimant's facilities, was reestablished by the Secretary
of War, under § 12 of the act of August 11, 1888, c. 860,
25 Stat. 400, 425, in such manner that a part of the claimant's land and all of his facilities were brought within the
harbor area. In 1890 another extended project, retaining
the earlier proposal to widen the river by cutting away
a portion of the island, was submitted to Congress and
was approved. The estimated cost of this project was
$3,500,000, which included $45,000 for "possible land
damages" to the island. A part of the larger sum was
appropriated each year until the appropriations equalled
the full estimate, which was in 1895. The appropriation
of July 13, 1892, c. 158, 27 Stat. 88, 92, was accompanied
by a provision that "contracts may be entered into by the
Secretary of War for such materials and work as may
be necessary to complete the present project of improvement, to be paid for as appropriations may from time to
time be made by law, not to exceed in the aggregate"
so much of the estimate as remained unappropriated.
A contract was then made for cutting away a portion of
the island including that whereon the claimant's facilities
were situate, but this work never was done or undertaken,
and the appropriations were otherwise exhausted and the
project treated as completed.
In the summer of 1892 the condition of the claimant's
wharf and piling became such that it was necessary to
rebuild the one and to renew the other. While he was so
engaged the engineer officer in charge of the harbor improvements requested him to desist and to remove all of
his facilities that were within the harbor area as defined
by the Secretary of War in 1889. The request was followed by a letter from the United States Attorney for

WILLINK v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that district notifying the claimant that in driving the
piling he was obstructing navigation contrary to the act
of September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 454-455, and
that unless he desisted and "all piling outside of the
bulkhead line" was removed he would be prosecuted.
Because of this request and notice he ceased work upon
the piling and wharf, but did not remove any of his facilities or surrender them or his land to the United States or
any o2 its officers. On the contrary, he continued to
operate his plant and use his marine railway and other
facilities as best he could. Theretofore he was able to
haul up on the railway and repair vessels of considerable
draft, and the chief profit in his business came from that
work; but thereafter, the renewal of the piling being prevented, deposits of mud filled up the entrance to the
railway to such an extent that he was obliged to confine
his work to smaller vessels. Even then it was necessary
to be almost constantly dredging the entrance. This
condition continued until December, 1897, when- the
Secretary of War reestablished the harbor line as it was
prior to May 4, 1889. The expense incurred by the
claimant in dredging was $7,697 and the loss consequent
upon his inability to handle the largei1 vessels was $12,500.
Upon these facts, as before indicated, the court held
that he was not entitled to recover.
We reach the same conclusion, and for the following
reasons:
There was no actual taking of any of the claimant's
property, nor any invasion or occupation of any of his
land. As respects his upland, he was not in any wise
excluded from its use, nor was his possession disturbed.
Something more than the location of a harbor line across
the land was required to take it from him and appropriate
it to public use. Yesler v. Washington HarborLine Commissioners, 146 U. S. 646, 656; Prosser v. Nor. Pac. R. R.,
152 U. S. 59, 65; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

605, 623. No taking resulted from the request that he
remove his facilities, for it was neither acceded to nor
enforced. And the contract for cutting away a part of
the land was also without effect, because there was no
attempt at performance. Thus, at best, the asserted
taking rested upon the acts of the engineer officer and the
district attorney in preventing the claimant from renewing his piling and rebuilding his wharf. But in this no
right of his was infringed. The river being navigable
and tidal, whatever rights he possessed in the land below
the mean high-water line were subordinate to the public
right of navigation and to the power of Congress to employ all appropriate means to keep the river open and its
navigation unobstructed. Gibson v. United States, 166
U. S. 269, 271; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163;
Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 634, 638;
United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co., 229 U. S. 53, 62;
Lewis Blue Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82, 88;
Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison,237 U. S. 251, 263. The
piling and wharf were below the mean high-water line,
and so, if navigation was likely to be injuriously affected
by their presence, Congress could prevent their renewal
without entitling him to compensation therefor. See
cases supra. By the legislation in force at the time,
Congress not only authorized the Secretary of War to
establish the harbor lines, but made it unlawful to extend
any wharf or other works, or to make any deposits, within
the harbor arQa as so defined, except under such regulations as the Secretary might prescribe, and laid upon
the district attorney and the officer in charge of the
harbor improvements the duty of giving attention to the
enforcement of its prohibitive and punitive provisions,
Aug. 11, 1898, c. 860, § 12, 25 Stat. 400, 425; Sept. 19,
1890, c. 907, §§ 11-12, 26 Stat. 426,455. When the claimant attempted to renew the piling and rebuild the wharf
they were not only below the mean high-water line but

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CHICAGO AUDITORIUM.
240 U. S.

581

Syllabus.

within the harbor area as defined under this legislation.
Consistently with its prohibitions he could not proceed
with the work, except under a permissible regulation of the
Secretary of War. It is not contended that the work was
thus made permissible, and so the conclusion is unavoid-.
able that the claimant was proceeding in violation of the
statute and that the engineer officer and the district attorney rightly requested him to desist. Such inconvenience and damage as he sustained resulted not from a
taking of his property, but from the lawful exercise of a
power to which it had always been subject. Gibson v.,
United States, supra, 276; Bedford v. United States, 192
U. S. 217, 224.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY OF ILLINOIS, TRUSTEE OF FRANK E. SCOTT TRANSFER COMPANY, BANKRUPT, v. CHICAGO AUDITORIUM
ASSOCIATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

CHICAGO AUDITORIUM ASSOCIATION v. CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, &c.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 162, 174. Argued January 12, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.
Appeals from decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, allowing or
rejecting a claim in bankruptcy, are, in the absence of the certificate
prescribed by § 25b-2, limited under § 25b-1 to cases involving
Federal quostions of the kind described in § 237, Jud. Code.

