PECOS & NORTHERN RY. v. ROSENBLOOM.
240 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

,PECOS & NORTHERN TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY- v. ROSENBLOOM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No.•613.

Submitted February 24, 1916.-Decided March 18, 1916.

If an employ6 of an interstate carrier is employed in interstate conmerce when killed, the right of recovery against the carrier depends
upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act, which only permits suits
by a personal representative for the benefit of the surviving widow
or husband and children if there be such;' and, in view of the pleadings and testimony in this case, held that it was error for the trial
court to refuse an instructioi to the effect that if the employ6 was
at the time of his death engaged in interstate commerce, the widow
of deceased could not maintain an action against the employer for
the benefit of herself, as next friend for her minor children, and for
the use and benefit of parents of deceased.
141 S. W. Rep. 174, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the application and construction of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. Terry, Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, Mr. A. H.
Culwell, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Evans Browne
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James D. Williamson, Mr. H. H. Cooper and Mr.
J. A. Stanford for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTIJE MCREYNOLDS7
'by direction of the court.
In November, 1909, M. A. Rosenbloom was instantlkilled by a ballast car beihg pushed by an engine a1
track No. 5 in the railway company's switch y-

,OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Amarillo, Texas. Proceeding in behalf of herself, as next
friend for her two. minor cliildren, and for the use and

benefit of his parents, the deceased's widow instituted
this suit for damages in the District Court, Potter County,
Texas. The, jury returned a verdict for'seven thousand
dollars-apportioned two thousand respectively to the
widow and each child, and five hundred to each parent;
judgment thereon was sustained by the Court of Civil
Appeals (141 S.W. Rep. 174) and by the State Supreme
Court.
Among other things the amended petition alleges:
That Rosenbloom was employed by the railway as ticket
clerk and required to be in and at the switch yard in order
to take and preserve a record of numbers on outgoing
cars and to seal those which needed it. That when the
accident occurred a long freight train was leaving the yard.
on its regular run along switch track No. 4; as required
by his duties, Rosenbloom was walking between' tracks
4 and .5and near the train observing and noting car
numbers; while so engaged and exercising due care a
ballast car, negligently pushed along track No. 3, struck
him with great violence and caused his death.
It conclusively . appears 'from the evidence that the
freight train on track 4, consisted of thirty odd cars
moving, with one exception, in interstate commerce.
The petition declares that in pursuance of his duty deceased was taking the numbers of these cars; there was
some direct evidence to the same effect; and certainly
'enough had been shown to support a finding that when
killed he was engaged in interstate commerce. The trial
court. refused the following instruction:
"If M. A. Rosenbloom, at the time of his death, was
engaged in examining seals and making record of seals
on cars being transported interstate over the line of defendaiit and other lines of connecting carriers, and if such
work was a necessary part and customary work, reason-

PECOS & NORTHERN RY. ,v.
ROSENBLOOM.
240 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

ably carried on by defendant as a part of its business,
transporting freight interstate over its line, or if he had
then just completed such inspection of said frain and
had not yet completed his record and placed it in the place
where usually kept, then you will return a verdict for the
defendant on its special plea that plaintiff has no right to
maintain this suit in the capacity in which she sues."
Upon a clearly erroneous assumption that, there was
nothing on which to base such request, the Supreme Court
approved its refusal. The record discloses no proper
reason for thus denying plaintiff in ,error a right claimed
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. If- when
struck deceased was employed in interstate commerce,
the right of recovery depended upon that Act; and it
only permits suit by a personal representative for the
benefit of surviving widow or husband and children if
there be such. April 22, 1908 (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; April 5,
1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291). It is unnecessary to take up
other points presented by counsel; the purpose and effect
of the Federal legislation has been much discussed in our
recent opinions. Pedersen v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R.,
229 U. S. 146; St. L. & San Fran. Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S.
156; Nor. Car. R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S.248; Ill. Cent.
R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S.473; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492; N. Y. Central R. R. v. Carr, 238
U. S.260; Penna. Co. v. Donat, 239 U. S.50; Southern
Railway v. Lloyd, 239 U. S.496; Shanks v. Del., Lack. &
West. R. R., 239 U. S.556.
The judgment ,below, is reversed and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of Texas -for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

