OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Appellant.

240 U. S.

decisions of this court. FairHaven & Westville R. R. Co. v.
New Haven, 203 U. S. 379, 389. Detroit v. Detroit Citizens'
Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 397. In view of the finding
that the pavement needed repair and that crushed stone
would not have been suitable for the purpose and would
have been additionally unsuitable when the rest of the
street was paved with asphalt we do not feel prepared
to declare the judgment wrong.
Judgment affirmed.

CUYAHOGA RIVER POWER COMPANY v. CITY OF
AKRON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 465.

Argued October 20, 1915.-Decided March 20, 1916.

As the bill in this case states that a municipality does not intend to
institute proceedings to condemn, but does intend to take plaintiff's
property rights without compensation, and has taken steps that will
destroy such rights, and that in so doing it purports to be acting
under an ordinance which violates the contract clause of, and the
Fourteenth Amendment to, the Federal Constitution, held that such
municipal action is to be regarded as action of the State, and as the
only way to determine whether plaintiff has rights that the municipality is bound to respect, is to take jurisdiction and determine the
case on the merits, the District Court has jurisdiction.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. CarrollG. Walter and Mr. John L. Wells, with whom
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Mr. R. Golden Donaldson and Mr.
Charles A. Collin were on the brief, for appellant.

CUYAHOGA POWER CO. v. AKRON.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles F. Choate, Jr., with whom Mr. Jonathan
Taylor was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by an Ohio corporation
against a city of Ohio to prevent the latter from appropriating the waters of the Cuyahoga River and its tributaries above a certain point. It alleges that the plaintiff
was incorporated under the laws of Ohio for the purpose
of generating hydro-electric power by means of dams and
canals upon the said River, and of disposing of the same;
that it has adopted surveys, maps, plans and profiles to
that end, has entered upon, located and defined the property rights required, has instituted condemnation proceedings to acquire a part at least of such property, has
sold bonds and spent large sums and has gained a paramount right to the water and necessary land. The bill
also-alleges that the City has passed an ordinance appropriating the water and directing its solicitor to take proceedings in court for the assessment of the compensation
to be paid. The District Court dismissed the bill for want
of jurisdiction on the ground that it presented no Federal
question, because if the plaintiff had any rights they could
be appropriated only by paying for them in pursuance of
the verdict of a jury and a judgment of a court. It made
the statutory certificate and the case comes here by direct
appeal. 210 Fed. Rep. 524.
It appears to us that sufficient attention was not paid to
other allcgations of the bill. After setting out various
passages from the statutes and constitution of Ohio and
concluding that the City has no constitutional power to
take the property and franchises that the plaintiff is
alleged to own or any property for a water supply, it
alleges that the City does not intend to institute any proceedings against'the plaintiff but intends to take its prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

erty and rights without compensation; that it is building
a dam and has taken steps that will destroy the plaintiff's
rights; that it is insolvent; that the purpose of the ordinance and certain statutes referred to is to appropriate
and destroy those rights without compensation; that the
defendant purports to be acting under the ordinance, and
that in so acting it violates Article I, ยง 10, and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. It is established that such action is to be regarded
as the action of the State. Raymond v. Chicago Union
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20. Home Telephone & Telegraph
Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278. Whether the plaintiff
has any rights that the City is bound to respect can be
decided only by taking jurisdiction of the case; and the
same is true of other questions raised. Therefore it will
be necessary for the District Court to deal with the merits,
and to that end the decree must be reversed.
Decree reversed.

GREAT

NORTHERN RAILWAY
KNAPP.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 690.

Argued February 24, 1916.-Decided March 20, 1916.

Where there is no question as to the interpretation of the Employers'
Liability Act or as to the definition of legal principles in its application, but the question is simply whether there were matters for
determination of the jury, this court, with due regard to the appropriate exercise of its jurisdictioh, will not disturb the decision of the
court below unless error is palpable.
In cases of this sort arising under the Employers' Liability Act, not be-

