OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

TITLE GUARANTY AND SURETY COMPANY v.
STATE OF IDAHO FOR THE USE OF ALLEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 815. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 24, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Where the State, suing on behalf of depositors of a bank, is an actual
party plaintiff, the case cannot be removed to the Federal court.
Missouri &c. Ry. v. Commissioners, 183 U. S. 53.
Where a State, suing on behalf of depositors of a bank, is merely a
nominal party, the case cannot be removed if none of the distinct
judgments to be rendered in favor of any individual is large enough
to confer jurisdiction: the amounts cannot be aggregated for that
purpose. Rogers v. Hennepin County, 239 U. S. 621.
The due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
prevent a State from placing upon a bank commissioner the duty of
closing a bank found upon examination to be insolvent without first
instituting proceedings and obtaining an award.

THE facts, which involve the right of removal of a cause
from the state court to the Federal court on grounds of
diversity of citizenship and of amount in controversy
and the constitutionality under the due process provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment of certain provisions of the
Idaho Banking Law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph H. Peterson, Attorney General of the State
of Idaho, Mr. Paris Martin and Mr. William E. Cameron
in support of the motion to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. John F. Nugent, Mr. Samuel H. Hays and Mr.
P. B. Carter for plaintiff in error in opposition to the

motion:

TITLE GUARANTY CO. v. ALLEN.
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The action is brought by the State of Idaho for the use
and benefit of some two hundred and eighteen persons who
were depositors in the Boise State Bank and while no
individual item is in excess of $3,000 the total amount
is $30,000.
The judgment, therefore, is a judgment in favor of the
State for the use and benefit of certain individuals in the
aggregate amounting to over $30,000, and while no individual item is in excess of $3,000, the total amount is
over $30,000.
Under ยง4092, Idaho Rev. Codes, the State is the trustee
of an express trust under this bond and may therefore
properly sue without joining the persons for whose benefit
the action is prosecuted. For this reason the State brings
a single action for the entire amount and not upon the
ground of convenience or economy. See Troy Bank v.
Whitehead, 222 U. S. 39.
There is no case exactly like the one at bar. The bond
was the common security of all of the persons for whose
benefit the action was brought.
There was only one breach of the bond and there was
only one default or neglect of duty.
The claims sued on were not united for convenience and
economy in the sense in which that phrase is used in the
decisions of this court, but were united entirely on the
ground that the State was the proper plaintiff in the suit
under the specific statute which made the presence of the
beneficiaries unnecessary.
The State is seeking to recover the entire fund deposited. The aggregate amount, therefore, is to be taken
in ascertaining the amount in controversy. Handley v.
Stut-. 137 U. S. 366. See also, Balt. & Ohio R. R. v.
United States, 220 U. S. 94; Kaus v. Am. Surety Co., 199
Fed. Rep. 972; Spokane Co. v. Kootenai Co., 199 Fed.
Rep. 481; Jones v. Mutual Fidelity Co., 123 Fed. Rep.
506.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

The plaintiff is the State of Idaho, but is only a nominal
party; therefore, the question of citizenship is that of the
real parties in interest, and as they are citizens of Idaho,
and as the defendants are citizens of other States jurisdiction exists. New Orleans v. Whitney, 138 U. S. 595; Mex.
Cent. Ry. v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429.
The judgment cannot be divided up into parts to defeat jurisdiction on the question of the amount in controversy.
No objection to the verification of the petition for removal was made at the time of the trial, and the order
denying the petition was made on the merits. The verification was sufficient. Cropsey v. Sun P. & P. Ass'n, 215
Fed. Rep. 132; Murray v. South. Bell Tel. Co., 210 Fed.
Rep. 925; Porter v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., 161 Fed. Rep.
773.
The constitutional question, to-wit, ยง 73 of the Idaho
Banking Act was unconstitutional in that it did not provide for due process of law, was urged and decided adversely to the plaintiff in error.
Section 73 does not provide for any notice to the bank
or any judicial proceedings whatever in determining the
insolvency of the bank, or whether or not it had paid
its depositors in the ordinary course of business, and in
that respect is unconstitutional as denying due process of
law in providing for a hearing. C., M. & St. P. R. R. v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418.
A state bank is in a different position from a National
bank. The National banks are instrumentalities of the
Federal Government created for a public purpose and as
such necessarily subject to the paramount authority of
the United States. They are in a sense a part of the
treasury department. State banks occupy no such relation to state iffairs. There is no arbitrary right of a
bank commissioner to close state banks nor is there any
statute in Idaho similar to the Federal Act.

TITLE GUARANTY CO. v. ALLEN.
240 U. S.

MR.

Opinion of the Court.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The case is before us on a motion to dismiss or affirm.The action of,the court below which it is sought to review
affirmed a judgment of the trial court entered on theverdict of a jury in a suit brought by the State. for the
use 'and benefit of Q. W. Allen and two hundred and
eighteen otheiL named depositors of the Boise State Bank
against Platt, a state bank commissioner, and the surety
on his bond, for losses alleged to have bee suffered by
each of the individuals named as the result of alleged
neglect of official duty imposed by the state law upon the
bank commissioner. The wrong relied upon was his
alleged misconduct in not closing the doors of the bank
and permitting it to continue business after he had discovered, as the result of an official examination, that the
bank was hopelessly insolvent. The bill as a first cause of
action fully set out the facts and stated the legal grounds
relied upon to establish the loss and right of 0. W. Allen
to recover, and separate causes of action were then stated
in favor of each of the two hundred and eighteen other
depositors. There was an application to remove the
case to the District Court of the United States on the
grounds of diverse citizenship, the depositors named
being citizens of Idaho and Platt the bank commissioner,
being then a resident of California and the Surety Company of Pennsylvania, which application was denied.
After issue joined there was a trial before a jury and a
verdict infavor of the plaintiff, the State, and against the
defendants "on each and every cause of action set forth
in the complaint herein, to and for the use and benefit
of each of the parties named in each of the separate causes
of action set forth in plaintiff's complaint." And it was
conformably adjudged "that the said plaintiff do have and
recover of and from the said defendants . . . for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

use and benefit of each of the following-named parties, the
sums set opposite their respective names, to wit," etc. No
one of the amounts, thus awarded to the plaintiff for the
use of any one of the named persons equalled three
thousand dollars, but the sum of all the claims equalled
thirty thousand dollars. In affirming the judgment the
court below held that the relief prayed was authorized
by the state statutes and that they also conferred authority
upon the State to bring the suit as an express trustee for
the use and benefit of the respective parties.
The Federal questions relied upon are first, the alleged
wrongful denial of the right to remove, and second, an
asserted error committed by the court below in refusing
to sustain a claim under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The first is plainly without merit. Treating the State
as the party plaintiff, it is not open to question that there
was no right to remove. Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S.
430; Missouri &c. Ry. v. Missouri R. R. Commissioners,
183 U. S. 53, 58. And if we were to accede to the contention made in argument that the State must be treated
as merely a nominal party and the right to remove be
then determined by the citizenship of the individuals for
whose benefit recovery was allowed, it would yet follow,
since none of the distinct judgments in favor of any of
the individuals are large enough to confer jurisdiction, that
the court below correctly held that there was no basis
for the right to remove. Woodside v. Beckham, 216 U. S.
117; Troy Bank v. Whitehead, 222 U. S. 39; Rogers v.
Hennepin County, 239 U. S. 621. In fact the correctness
of these conclusions is made clear by the arguments advanced to the contrary, since they serve only to confuse
and are destructive of each other. Thus, on the one hand,
for the purpose of establishing the existence of diversity
of citizenship justifying the removal it is urged that the
State must be treated as merely a nominal party having

TITLE GUARANTY CO. v. ALLEN.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no interest and as in no wise concerned in the judgment,
and then upon the hypothesis that the State is eliminated,
in order to establish a jurisdictional amount sufficient fo
remove, the award of distinct and separate amounts made
by the judgment in favor of each of the distinct plaintiffs
is wholly ignored and it is urged, that there is but one
judgment which is in favor of the State and which is composed of the aggregate of the distinct amounts.
Second. The proposition under the Fourteenth Amendment relied upon is that consistently with that Amendment the State had not the power to put upon the bank
commissioner the duty of closing the bank in case on
examination it was found to be insolvent, since such authority consistently with due process could only have been
exerted after judicial proceedings to ascertain the facts
and the awarding of relief accordingly. The pleadings
leave it exceedingly doubtful whether the question thus
urged was presented in either of the courts below, and it is
besides obvious from the opinion of the court below that
it considered that the only question raised under the
Constitution of the United States was a contention that
there would result a want of due process if the state
statutes conferred upon an administrative officer the authority to liquidate the affairs of the insolvent bank without judicial proceedings. We say this because in its
opinion the court observed that if that was the contention,
it was irrelevant, as the statutes did not authorize liquidation except as a result of judicial proceedings, although
they did impose upon the bank commissioner the duty,
after he found a bank to be insolvent, to close its doors
and prevent the further transaction of business until, in
the orderly course of procedure, a judicial liquidation
might be accomplished. But assuming, as it is now insisted in argument was the case, that the question relied
upon was the repugnancy of the state statute to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

power was conferred upon an administrative officer in
the event of insolvency to close'tli doors, of a bank without awaiting judicial proceedings, and that the observation on that subject by the court below was an adverse
decision of such, question, we think it suffices to state the
proposition to demonstrate its want of merit. Noble State
,Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Shallenbergerv. FirstState
Bank, 219 U. S. 114.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BANNING COMPANY v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA UPON THE INFORMATION OF
WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 73. Argued January 19, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
The withdrawal from sale of lands by a State before any right is
consummated, does not amount to the impairment of the obligation
of a contract within the meaning of Article I, ยง 10 of the Federal
Constitution.
While an offer made by a State, though no particular person be designated, and accepted, may constitute a contract protected by the
Federal Constitution, the offer and acceptance must have the characteristics of a bargain and be conventional counterparts.
Where a State makes a general offer to sell and provides for contest
and determination of conflicting claims of parties contending for
the right to purchase, the State is not bound by its offer or precluded
from withdrawing it, until the rightful claimant is determined and
his right of purchase perfected by payment of at least an installment
of the price thereof.
Expenditures, other than payment to the State, by one intending to
accept a general offer of a State to sell public lands are but voluntary

