OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

DETROIT AND MACKINAC RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMMISSION AND
FLETCHER PAPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 68.

Argued November 10, 1915.-Decided April 3, 1916.

A judgment or decree which determines the particular cause is final
in the sense of § 237, Jud. Code.
A proceeding in mandamus is an independent adversary suit, and a
judgment awarding or refusing the writ is final within the meaning
of § 237, Jud. Code.
The granting of a writ of mandamus to maintain or restore the status
quo by requiring a railroad company to comply with an order of
the State Railroad Commission of Michigan, which, under the statute of the State was prima facie lawful, pending the determination
of a suit in equity brought by the railroad company to enjoin enforcement of the order, held, in view of the circumstances and requiremipnt that a bond of indemnity be given, not to deprive the railroad company of due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
178 Michigan, 230, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of an
order granting a writ of mandamus enforcing obedience to
an order of the Michigan Railroad Commission directing a
railroad company to relay tracks removed by it from a
logging spur, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Fred A. Baker and Mr. James McNamara for

plaintiff in error submitted:
It was not competent for the Supreme Court of Michigan while the case in the Wayne Circuit was pending and
undetermined to order the railroad company to restore the
Tubbs Branch and to resume service thereon.

DETROIT &c. RY. v. MICHIGAN R. R. COMM.
240 U. S.

565

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The failure of the Michigan Railroad Commission to
carry out its agreement to give a further hearing and an
opportunity to introduce evidence, and the refusal of the
Supreme Court of Michigan to give any such opportunity
was a deprivation of property without due process of law
and a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The indemnity bond of $10,000 does not cure the error of
the Supreme Court of Michigan in awarding the mandamus.
On the answers of the railroad company the Tubbs
Branch has always been, and as proposed to be restored
will certainly be, private and not public.
The Detroit & Mackinac Railway Company was at
liberty whenever it saw fit-to withdraw the Tubbs Branch
from its alleged public use.
In support of these contentions, see Arson v. Murphy,
109 U. S. 238; Barney v. Watson, 92 U. S. 449; Berrien
Power Co. v. Circuit Judge, 133 Michigan, 48; Chicago
&c. Ry. v. Chappel, 124 Michigan, 72; Chicago &c. Ry. v.
Hough, 61 Michigan, 507; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 239;
Chicago &c. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; De Lima v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1; Detroit & Mac. Ry. v. Mich. R. R.
Con., 171 Michigan, 335; Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S.
651; Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137; Falsburg Power
Co. v. Alexander, 101 Virginia, 95; Foule v. Mann, 53 Iowa,
42; Ford v. Chicago &c. Ry., 14 Wisconsin, 609; Hovey v.
Elliott, 167 U. S. 409; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis: & Nash.
R. R., 227 U. S. 88; Louis. & Nash.. R. R..v. Garrett, 231
U. S. 298; Mann v. Pere MarquetteRy., 135 Michigan, 210;
Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Oregon Ry.. &
Nay. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; People v. Lake Shore
Ry., 52 Michigan, 227; People v. Smith, 21 N. Y. 595;
People v. D. G. H. & M. Ry., 79 Michigan, 417; Pere
Marquette Ry. Y. Gypsum Co., 154 Michigan, 290; Pipe
Line Cases, 234 U. S. 518; Pumpelly v. Canal Co., 13 Wall.
168; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398; Union Lime Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Chicago &c. Ry., 233 U. S. 211; Sholl v. German Coal Co.,
118 Illinois, 427; Fong Yue.Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.
698; Wadley South. Ry. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651; Water
Works Co. v. Burkhart, 41 Indiana, 364.
Mr. D. H. Crowley, with whom Mr. Grant Fellows and
Mr. I. S. Canfield were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVAXTER

delivered the opinion of

the court..
This was a petition to the Supreme Court of Michigan
by the Railroad Commission of that State for a writ of
mandamus to enforce obedience to an order of the commission directing the Detroit & Mackinac ,Railway Company
to relay one-half mile of rails removed by it from a fivemile logging spur, called Tubbs Branch, and to resume
service thereon. The railroad company answered, and,
after a hearing, the court granted the writ subject to a
condition presently to be stated. 178 Michigan, 230.
The commission's action was invoked by a complaint
presented by the Fletcher Paper Company, of which the
railway company had due notice. Before the commission
the railway company insisted that the logging spur was
not a part of its railroad system and that its use had been
only that of a private convenience; but the commission
concluded from the pleadings and evidence that the fact
was otherwise and made the order with the purpose of
correcting what it deemed an unreasonable and unjust
discrimination and an inadequate service within the meaning of the local statute, 3 Howell's Ann. Stat., 2nd ed.,
§§ 6526, 6537, 6545. Thereupon the railway company filed
a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of Wayne County
praying that the order be vacated and asking that its
enforcement be temporarily and permanently enjoined.
In the bill the railway company, repeated its insistence

DETROIT &c. RY. v. MICHIGAN R. R. COMM.
240 U. S.

567

Opinion of the Court.

that the logging spur was not a part of its railroad system
but only a private convenience, and charged that an
adequate hearing was denied by the commission in that
the issues were determined upon the evidence presented
by the paper company and in contravention of an understanding, assented to by the commission, that if an
objection of the railway company in the nature of a plea
of res judicata should be overruled, as it afterwards was,
the company would be afforded a further opportunity to
present evidence in opposition to that of the paper company. The bill invoked the due process of law clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Apparently the prayer for a
temporary- injunction was not insisted upon.
It was during the pendency of that suit that the mandamus proceeding was begun and carried to judgment in
the Supreme Court. In this proceeding the railway company again .asserted that the logging spur was only a
private convenidnce and not a part of the railroad system
used by it as a common carrier and that the commission
had denied it an adequate opportunity to be heard upon
that question, and further insisted that to require it to
give effect to the commission's order in advance of a hearing and decision upon that question in the suit in equity
would deprive it of the due process of law guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the course of its opinion the Supreme Court said,
pp. 243-246:
"We are not called upon to consider and determine the
merits of the controversy between the Fletcher Paper
Company and respondent railway company upon the
order of August 3, 1911. Such questions are involved in
the case now pending before the circuit court for the
County of Wayne in chancery, wherein the respondent
railway company seeks to review, annul and set aside said
order. The sole question before this court in this proceeding is whether the order of the railroad commission shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

take effect and become operative pending the hearing and
determination of that chancery cause.
"Relative to an order made by this commission this
court has said: ' . . . Its orders stand until modified
or set aside by it or by the courts. . . . Presumptively, the findings and orders of the commission are right.
If attacked, the complainant has the burden of showing
by clear and satisfactory evidence that the order of the
commission complained of is unlawful or unreasonable, as
the case .may be.' Detroit &c. R. R. v. Railroad Commission, 171 Michigan, 335, 346.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The petitioner in the instant case before the railroad
commission offered,' and upon this hearing before this
court keeps such offer good, to indemnify respondent for
all costs and expenses incurred in re-laying the track taken
up by it, with interest, and to pay all rates that may be
fixed or charged by the railway company and approved by
the commission, in case this order is Vacated and set aside
by the Wayne circuit court in chancery, or by this court,
if an appeal is taken. This indemnity wouki save respondent harmless from any possible loss in complying
with the order, and save petitioner from claimed irreparable damage to 21,000,000 feet of forest products during
the probable term of years occupied in this litigation.
"It was held by this court that an order of the railroad
commission is enforceable by mandamus, although a proceeding in equity to review it is pending. Michigan R. R.
Comm. v. Railroad Co., 159 Michigan, 580.
"This order is prima facie not unreasonable. There is
no question but that the legislative intent clearly expressed
in this statute was that the orders of the commission
should be and continue in force during all subsequent
proceedings until modified or set aside by the commission
or by the courts.
"The statute provides a remedy by mandamus to en-

DETROIT &c. RY. v. MICHIGAN R. R COMM. 569
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

force the orders of the commission, and this court has
granted such writs. Upon the facts presented, the writ
should be granted in this case.
"Upon furnishing bond by the petitioner before the
railroad commission, the Fletcher Paper Company, in the
penal sum of $10,000 to indemnify respondent in manner
and form as herein stated, with two sureties to be agreed
upon between the parties, or approved by the clerk of this
court, a writ of mandamus will issue as prayed."
And in the course of a separate opinion one of the Justices said, p. 248:
"So long as the respondent was operating the spur,
accepting thereon and transporting over it freight for
those who offered it, and so long as it published tariffs
affecting such service, it was undoubtedly, as to such
operations, within the scope of the act in question, and
this we held in Detroit &c. R. R. v. Railroad Commission,
171 Michigan, 335. But whether the Michigan railroad
commission has power under the statute to require respondent to continue to operate such a spur, or branch,
against its will, and in face of its efforts to abandon it, is
quite a different question. It is a question which we
assume is presented in the pending chancery proceeding
to set aside the order which in this proceeding is sought
to be enforced. It need not be answered now."
The local statute, 3 Howell's Ann. Stat., 2nd ed., provides: (§ 6545) Orders of the commission shall take effect
and become operative twenty days after service; (§ 6547)
the commission may upon application rescind or alter
any order; (§ 6548) all regulations, practices and services
prescribed by the commission shall be in force and be
prima facie lawful and reasonable until finally held otherwise in a suit brought for the purpose under § 6549, or
until rescinded or altered by the commission under
§ 6547; (§ 6549) a carrier may, within thirty days after
notice of an order, commence a suit in equity to vacate

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

it, the burden being upon the carrier to show that the.
order is unlawful or unreasonable. In such a suit original
evidence may be introduced in addition to the transcript
of that presented before the commission; and if evidence
be introduced by the carrier which is different from or in
addition to. that presented before the commission the
court, unless the parties stipulate to the contrary, shall
transmit a copy thereof to the commission and stay
further proceedings for the time being. The commission
shall consider the evidence transmitted and may alter
or rescind its order and shall report its action to the court.
If the commission rescind its order the suit shall be dismissed; if it alter the order, the same in its changed form
shall take the place of the original and judgment shall be
rendered thereon as though the last action of the commission had been taken at first; (§ 6570) in addition to all
other remedies, the commission, and likewise any party
in interest, may compel compliance with an order of the
commission by a proceeding in mandamus, injunction or
other appropriate civil remedy.
It will be perceived that the Supreme Court, applying
the statute, held that the "sole question" for decision
was whether the commission's order should be given effect
pending the determination of the equity suit, and then,
coming to dispose of that question, held that due regard
for the provisions of the statute, especially §§ 6545, 6548
and 6549, and for the relative consequences of enforcing
or refusing to enforce the order required that it be enforced by mandamus, if a suitable bond was given to indemnify the railway company for any resulting loss 'in
the event the order ultimately should be vacated in the
equity suit.
Our jurisdiction is called in question upon the ground
that the judgment is not final in the sense of § 237, Jud.
Code, upon which our power to review depends, because
the judgment does not determine the merits and end the

DETROIT &c. RY. v. MICHIGAN R. R. COMM. 571
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

litigation. But, as this court has said, "all judgments and
decrees which determine the particular cause" are final
in the sense of the statute. Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet,
449, 463-465; Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman Co.,
139 U.. S. 24, 40; Mt. Vernon Cotton Co. v. Alabama Power
Co., 240 U. S. 30. This view has .prevailed through a
century of practice in reviewing judgments and decrees
dismissing causes for want of jurisdiction or for other
reasons not decisive of the merits. And it is settled that
a proceeding in mandamus is an independent adversary
suit and a judgment awarding or refusing the writ is a
final judgment within the meaning of the statute. Davies
v. Corbin, 112 U. S. 36, 40;.McPherson v. Blacker, 146
U. S. 1, 24; American Express Co. v. Michigan, 177 U. S.
404, 406.
Under the local statutes, as interpreted by the Supreme
Court of the State, whether the logging spur was merely a
private convenience or was so used and operated by the
railway company that the latter, was not free to discontinue service ,thereon, in the circumstances existing when
the rails were removed, was primarily a question for the
commission and secondarily for the Wayne Circuit Court
wherein the commission's order was sought to be vacated.
By the order the commission resolved this question against
the railway company. The order was valid upon its face
and recited that it was made after a hearing and due con-.
sideration of the proofs and briefs of the parties. Whether
the hearing was adequate and whether the facts relating
to the logging spur were such as to sustain the order were
matters which were in issue in the suit in the Wayne
Circuit Court, where the railway company was at liberty
to produce any evidence legitimately bearing upon the
propriety of the order. It was in this situation that the
Supreme Court, having regard to the statutory requirement that the order be given effect and treated as prima
facie lawful and reasonable until adjudged otherwise in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

the suit brought to vacate it, and also having regard to
the comparative consequences of enforcing or refusing to
enforce it while that suit was undetermined, held that
it ought to be enforced by mandamus, if a suitable bond
was given to indemnify the railway company should the
order ultimately be vacated. In this we perceive no
deprivation of due process. The granting of an order or
writ to maintain or restore the status quo pending the
outcome of existing litigation, which really is what was
done here, has been practiced by the courts of the country
since before the Constitution was adopted, and the claim
that relief of this nature cannot be granted, even upon
condition that ample security be given to make good any
loss that may be sustained thereby, without encroaching
upon the due process of law secured by the Constitution
is manifestly without merit.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judgment is not final within the meaning.of § 237, Jud. Code,
and therefore that the writ of error should be dismissed.

WILLINK, EXECUTRIX, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 180.

Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

The mere location by the Secretary of War of a harbor line does not
amount to a taking of property within the line or its appropriation
to public use; nor does a taking result from the request of an officer
of the United States to a riparian owner to vacate if such request
is neither acceded to nor enforced.
The fact that the Government makes a contract to cut away land

