OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD
COMPANY v. SHEPHERD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. i60. Submitted January 12, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
A Federal question which is first set up and asserted in a petition for
rehearing in the highest court of the State which was not entertained
but denied without passing upon the Federal question is not open to
consideration here.
In an action for damages for unreasonable delay in transporting a shipment of cattle, in interstate commerce, where the question in dispute
was whether the transportation could have reasonably been conipleted within the thirty-six hours maximum limit under the Federal
statute, the court charged the jury that the carrier could not keep
the stock in the cars longer than such period, and that if it was not
reasonably possible to complete the journey within that time the
carrier was not responsible for delay caused by unloading the stock
for rest, water and feed, and no exceptions having been reserved or
modifications suggested, or other instructions requested, held, that
assignments of error based on failure to give due effect to the Federal
statute are so devoid of merit as to be frivolous and the writ of error.
should be dismissed.
Writ of error to review, 40 Oklahoma, 589, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under ยง 237, Jud. Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. F. Evans, Mr. R. A. Kleinschmidt and Mr. E. H.
Foster for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. B. Thompson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action for damages resulting, as was alleged,
from unreasonable delay in transporting cattle from Fort

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRAN. R. R. v. SHEPHERD.
240 U. S.

241

Opinion of the Court.

Worth, Texas, to Kansas City, Missouri, in May, 1909.
The plaintiff had a verdict and judgment and the latter
was affirmed. 40 Oklahoma, 589. The errors assigned
are that due effect was not given to certain provisions of
the Carmack Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act
(ยง 7, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 595) pr to the act limiting the
time that cattle in interstate transit may be confined in
cars without being unloaded for rest, water and feed,
'June 29, 1906, c. 3594, 34 Stat. 607.
The claim under the Carmack Amendment was first
set up and asserted in a petition for rehearing after the
judgment in the trial court was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. The petition was not entertained,
but was denied without passing upon the Federal question thus tardily raised. That question therefore is not
open to consideration here. Pim v. St. Louis, 165 U. S.
273; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 308;
McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S. 432, 437; Forbes v.
State Council of Virginia, 216 U. S. 396, 399; Consolidated
Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk &c. Ry., 228 U. S. 326, 334.
The claim made under the other act was, that part of the
delay was excusable, because the transportation reasonably could not have been completed within the maximum
time-thirty-six hours-during which the cattle could be
confined in the cars and it therefore became necessary

under the act to unload them for rest, water and feed for
at least five hours, as was done. Whether the transportation reasonably could have been completed within thirtysix hours was the subject of direct and conflicting testimony and was committed to the jury as a question of
fact. In that connection the court said to the jury:
"You are instructed that under the laws of the United
States the defendant company could not keep the stock
in this shipment in the cars longer than thirty-six hours
and if you find from the evidence that it was not reasonably possible that the shipment should reach Kansas City'

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

within the thirty-six hour limit, then it is not liable for
the delay caused by the unloading of the stock." No
exception was reserved to this instruction, no modification of it was suggested and no other instruction upon the
subject was requested. It therefore is apparent that the
assignments based upon this statute are so devoid of
merit as to be frivolous.
Writ of error dismissed.

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY AND LIBERTY
BOULEVARD ROAD DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.

No. 187. Argued January 18, 19, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Where a taxing district is not established by the'legislature, but by
exercise of delegated authority, there is no legislative decision that
its location, boundaries and needs are such that the lands therein
are benefited, and it is essential to due process of law that the landowners be accorded an opportunity to be heard on the question of
benefits.
Where a statute delegating authority for establishment of taxing
districts provides for a hearing on the question of benefits, the
decision of the designated tribunal is sufficient; and, unless made
fraudulently or in bad faith, due process is not denied.
A statute requiring adequate public notice of the time and place of
presentation of the petition for the creation of a tax district and
providing for presentation of remonstrances with power to the
designated tribunal to hear the petition and remonstrances and to
make such changes in the boundaries of the proposed district as
the public good may require, not only contemplates a hearing, but
authorizes the tribunal to so adjust the boundaries as to ihclude

