CASES ADJUDGED
IN THS

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

BRUS1ABER

v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 140. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided January 24, 1916.
Under proper averments a stockholder's suit to restrain, a corporation from voluntarily paying a tax charged to be unconstitutional, is
not violative of Rev. Stat., § 3224, and the District Court has jurisdiction to entertain the action. Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust
Co., 157 U. S. 429.
In this case --that of a stockholder against a corporation to restrain
the latter from voluntarily paying. the income tax imposed by the
Tariff Act of 1913,-the defendant corporation iotified the Government of the pendency of the action, and the United States was heard
as amicus curim in support of the constitutionality of the Act.
The Sixteenth Amendment was obviously intended to simplify the
situation and make clear the limitations on the taxing power of
Congress and not to create radical and destructive changes in our
constitutional system.
The Sixteenth Amendment does not purport to confer power to levy
income taxes in a generic sense,.as that authority was already pos-

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

240 U. S.

sessed, or to limit and distinguish between one kind of income tax
and another; but its purpose is to relieve all income taxes when imposed from apportionment. from consideration of the source whence
the income is derived.
The Income Tax provisions of the Tariff Act of 1.913 are not unconstitutional by reason of retroactive operation, the period covered not
extending prior to the time when the Amendment was operative;
nor are those provisions unconstitutional under the due process provision of the Fifth Amendment; nor do they deny due process of law,
nor equal protection of the law by reason of the classifications therein
of things or persons subject to the tax.
The provisions for collecting income at the source do not deny due
process of law by reason of duties imposed upon corporations
without compensation in connection with the payment of the tax
by others.
The uniformity of taxation required' by the Federal Constitution is,
geographical. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41. The Fifth Amendment is not a limitation upon the taxing power conferred upon Congress by the Constitution. Arguments as to the expediency of levying a tax which is within the
power of Congress to levy are beyond judicial cognizance.
When there are differences between the subjects that are taxed, Congress does not transcend the limit of its taxing power by taxing them
differently.
A want of due process of law does not arise from want of wisdom in
Congress in levying taxes and thus give the courts powef to overrule
the action of Congress by declaring it to be unconstitutional.

THL facts, which involve the construction of the Sixteenth Amendment and other provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and the constitutionality of the
Income Tax provisions of the Tariff Act of October 9,
1913, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Julien T. Davies, with whom Mr. Brainard Tolles,
Mr. Garrard Glenn and Mr. Martin A. Schenck were on

the brief, for the appellant:
The effect of the Sixteenth Amendment was merely
to waive the requirement of apportionment among the

States, in its application to a general and uniform tax

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

upon incomes from whatever source derived. The Income Tax Law of 1913, except in so far as the tax thereby
imposed is in reality such a general and uniform tax on
incomes, derives no support from the Sixteenth Amendment.
So much of the act of 1913, as subjects certain corporate earnings to the normal tax of one per cent: as income of the operating corporation, and- again subjects
the same earnings to'a like tax while in process of distribution to the beneficial owners through the instrumentality of an intermediate corporation, operates as a discrimination in the nature of a penalty on corporations
holding stock in other corporations and necessarily conflicts with the right of the several States to determine
for themselves the permissible forms and modes of ownership of property.
The provisions complained of constitute a departure
from the general plan of the act.
Holding stock in other corporations is not a legitimate
basis of classification in a Federal tax law.
The authorities condemn arbitrary selection under the
guise of classification.
The provisions of the statute which require collection
at the source by corporations, debtors, fiduciaries and
employers involve the taking of property without due
process of law and the taking of private property for
public use without compensation and are invalid.
Unapportioned compulsory service is not a tax.
Provision for just compensation is essential.
The act not only exacts labor without compensation,
but exposes one collecting the income at the source to,
unnecessary risks and perils.
The act involves unreasonable discriminations and
arbitrary classification.
The statute is invalid in the particular. of seeking to
tax income received prior to October 3, 1913.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

240 U. S.

The entire assessment of income tax against the defendant for the year 1913 is invalidated by the inclusion
therein of the amount improperly assessed relative to
the income received between March 1, 1913, and October 3, 1913.
In support of these contentions, see Alexandria Canal
Co. v. Districtof Columbia, 1 Mackey, 217; 5 Mackey, 376;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548; Attorney
General v. Old Colony R. R., 160 Massachusetts, 62; Barnes
v. Railroads, 17 Wall. 294; Biddle's Appeal, 97 Pa. St. 278;
In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. R. v. Wisconsin,
238 U. S. 491; Clarke v; Strickland, 2 Curt. 439; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; ConsolidatedRendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Santa Clara County v.
Southern Pacific R. R., 18 Fed. Rep. 385; S. C., 118 U. S.
394; San Mateo County v. Southern Pacific R. R., 13 Fed.
Rep. 145; In re Farrell, 212 Fed. Rep. 212; Freeland v.
Hastings, 10 Allen, 570; Goodwin v. McGaughey, 108
Minnesota, 248; Gray v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63; Guy v.
Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Haight v. Railroad Co., 6 Wall.
15; James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356; Johnson v. Colburn,
36 Vermont, 693; Joyner v. Third School District,3 Cush.
567; Kalbach v. Clark, 133 Iowa, 215; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Lacey v. Davis, 4 Michigan, 140; Lake
Shore R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Libby v. Burnham,
15 Massachusetts, 144; Loan Assn. v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Stockyards, 212 U. S. 132;
McCoach v. Minehill Ry., 228 U. S. 295; McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,; McCully v. Railroad, 212
Missouri,, 1;, Magoun v. Illinois Savings Bank, 170 U.
S. 283; Mayor V. Cooper, 131 Georgia, 670; Merchants'
Bank v. Pennsylvania,. 167 U. S. 461; Merchants' Ins.
Co. v. McCartney, 1 Lowell, 447; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Mo. Poc. R. R. v. Larabbee Mills, 211 U. S.
612.; National Deposit Co v. Stead, 232 U. S. 58; New

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Jersey v. Anderson, 203 U. S. 483; Pembina Mining Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181; Cornell v. Davenport,
30 Hun, 177; Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 158 U. S.
601; Richards v. Washington Terminal, 233 U. S. 546;
San Bernardino County v. Southern Pacific R. R., 118
U. S. 417; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; Southern Ry. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Stetson v. Kem pton, 13 Massachusetts, 272; Stockdale v. Insurance Cos., 20 Wall. 323;
Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; Sun Mutual Ins.
Co. v. Mayor, 8 N. Y. 241; Toone v. The State, 178 Alabama, 70; Union Bank v. Chicago, 3 Biss. 82; United
States v. Buffalo Pitts Co., 234 U. S. 228; United States
v. Fox, 95 U. S. 670; United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629;
United States v. Mitchell, 58 Fed. Rep. 993; United States
v. Singer, 15 Wall. 111; United States v. Railroad Co.,
17 Wall. 322; United States v. Welch, 217. U. S. 333; Ward
v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Worthen v. Badgett, 32 Arkansas, 496.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Wallace for the United States, as amicus curie, by leave of
-the court, in support of the decree appealed from:
Sections 3224 and 3226, Rev. Stat., preclude this
remedy and leave this court without jurisdiction of this
action. These statutes are constitutional. Murray's
Lessee v. Hoboken L. & I. Co., 18 How. 272, 282; Nichols
v. United States, 7 Wall. 122; United States v. PacificRailroad, 4 Dillon, 66; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; Shelton
v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591; Allen v. Pullman Car Co., 139 UA-S.
658; Straus v. Abrast Realty Co., 200 Fed. Rep. 327; Corbus
v. Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S. 455, 459; Hawes v. Oakland,
104 U. S. 450.
Taxes, when laid on income derived from realty or invested personalty, are direct taxes and before the Sixteenth
Amendment were not subject to the rule of uniformity.
Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 557; Spreckels

OCTOBlER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

240 U. S.

Sugar Co. v. McLean, 192 U. S. 397, 413; License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall.. 462, 471; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, 177; Southern Ry. v. King, 217 U. S. 534; Hatch v.
Reardon, 204 U. S. 160.
The Sixteenth Amendment removed the restriction of
apportionment as to such income taxes as before were
subject thereto.
The Constitution does not impose any implied or inherent rule of uniformity on the taxing power. Pollock
v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., supra,. 557; License Tax Cases,
supra, 462, 471; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608; McCray
v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
supra.
Nor can such requirement be developed from the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment; or the due process
or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261, 282.
The rule of general uniformity is not violated by exemption, classification or discrimination, unless so arbitrary
or outrageous as to indicate favoritism or prejudice.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
supra, 107; Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261, 274;
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521.
The express uniformity clause requires not intrinsic, but
only geographical uniformity. Knowlton v. Moore, supra,
106; Billings v. United States, supra, 282.
Neither the Fifth nor the Fourteenth Amendment, if
operative, would forbid reasonable exemption, classification or discrimination. Dist. of Col. v. Brooke, 214 U. S.
138, 150; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1, 52, 53; Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S. 26, 29; Int. Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 214, 215; Metropolis
Theatre Co. v. Chicago,228 U. S. 61, 69; Lindsley v. Natural
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78; Gibbons v. Dist. of Col., 116 U. S.
404; Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S. 477; Magoun v. Illinois Say.
Bank, 170 U. S. 299; Welch v. Cook, 97 U. S. 541; Home

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430; Salt Co. v. East
Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373.
Reasonable selection and classification is peculiarly a
function of the Congress. Cooley on Const. Liiia., 3d ed.,
739; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 57, 61; Veazie Bank v. Fenno,
8 Wall. 548; Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264, 269; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., supra, 167; Lindsley v. Natural Gas Co.,
supra, 78; Int. Harvester Co. v. Missouri, supra, 215;
Barrett v. Indiana, supra, 29, 30; Nicol v. Ames, supra,
521.
Those assailing a legislative classification carry the burden of demonstrating its unreasonableness. Nicol v.
Ames, supra, 514, 515; Lindsley v. Natural Gas Co., supra,
78, 79.
None of the exemptions or discriminations here complained of are unreasonable, nor do they produce lack of
uniformity. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, 178; Home
of the Friendless v. Rouse, supra; Salt Co. v. East Saginaw,
supra; Gibbons v. District of Columbia, supra; Knowlton
v. Moore, supra, 109; Peacock v. Pratt, 121 Fed. Rep.
772, 777; Pollock v. Farmers'L. & T. Co., supra,675, 676.
They were all within the power of selection and classification.
For taxation purposes there 'are fundamental distinctions between individuals and corporations. Black on
Income Taxes, 28; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, 158,
161; Nicol v. Ames, supra, 521; Kentucky R. R. Tax
Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337, 339; Pacific Exp. Co. v. Seibert,
142 U. S. 339, 354; Income Tax Cases, 148 Wisconsin, 456.
Capital stock held by corporations may be distinguished
from that held by individuals. Tennessee v. Whitworth,
117 U. S. 129, 136, 137; New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank,
167 U. S. 371; Powers v. Detroit &c. Ry., 201 U. S. 543,
559, 560; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, 150.
There is no objectionable discrimination in the provi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

240 U. S.

sion allowing deductions of interest paid. Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., supra, 169, 171.
This tax is not an infraction of the state power to authorize formation of corporations, etc. Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., supra, 152, 153, 158.
The "source collection" provisions are valid. Bank v.
Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 363; Home Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503; Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.),
832, 834; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 620, 621; Bell's
Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 239; Cummings
v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 156; National Deposit
Co. v. Illinois, 232 U. S. 58, 70; Gray on Limitations of
Taxing Power, § 1196; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County,
166 U. S. 440, 444; Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167
U. S. 461, 465; Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10; Union
Bank v. Richmond, 94 Virginia, 316; Commonwealth v.
Citizens' Bank, 117 Kentucky, 946.
The so-called retroactive feature is not objectionable.
Previous statutes had like provisions. 12 Stat. 292, 473,
.474; 13 Stat. 223, 281, 283, 417; 14 Stat. 471, 478, 480;
16 Stat. 256; 28 Stat. 553, § 27; Chap. 35, 5 & 6 Vict.;
c. 34, 16 & 17 V ict.; 16 Halsb. Laws of England, 609;
sub-sec. 4, English Finance Act of 1910; § 38, English
Finance Act of 1894; Drexel v. Commonwealth, 46 Pa. St.
31, 40; Stockdale v. Insurance Cos., 20 Wall. 323, 331, 341;
Income Tax Cases, 148 Wisconsin, 456; Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.), pp. 492, 493i 494; Locke v. New Orleans, 4
Wall. 172; Gray v. Darlington, 15 Wall. 63, 66; Maine v.
Grand Trunk Ry., 142 U. S. 217; Patton v. Brady, 184
U. S. 608; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, 108.
There is no invalid delegation of judicial authority to
the Secretary of the Treasury. Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken L. & I. Co., 18 How. 272; Fong Yeu Ting v. United
States, 149 U. S. 698, 714; Lem Moon Sing v. United
States, 158 U. S. 538, 544; Nishimura Ekiu v. United
States, 142 U. S. 651, 660; United States v. Duell, 172 U. S.

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

576, 586; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 67; Runkle v.
United States, 122 U. S. 543, 557; United States v. Ju Toy,
198 U. S. 253; Tang Tun v. Edsell, 223 U. S. 673; United
States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161, 170; Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86, 98; Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S.
279; Chin Bak Kan v. United States, 186 U. S. 193; Fok
Yung Yo v. United States, 185 U. S. 296; Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 386; Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Oceanic Navigation Co. v.
Stranahan,214 U. S. 320.
This act is separable by its own express provisions, and
the entire statute could not fail even were there partial
invalidity. Section 4, par. T, Act of Oct. 3, 1913, 38 Stat.
166 et seq.; Cooley on Const. Lim. (7th ed.), 246, 247,
250; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Huntington v. Worthen,
120 U. S. 97.
There was no argument on behalf of appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
As a stockholder of the Union Pacific Railroad Company the appellant filed his bill to enjoin the corporation
from complying with the Income Tax provisions of the
Tariff Act of October 3, 1913, (§ II, ch. 16, 38 Stat. 166).
Because of constitutional questions duly arising the case
is here on direct appeal from a decree sustaining a motion
to dismiss because no ground for relief was stated.
The right to prevent the corporation from returning
and paying the tax was based upon many averments as
to the repugnancy of the statute to the Constitution of
the United States, of the peculiar relation of the corporation to the stockholders and their particular interests
resulting from many of the administrative provisions of
the assailed act, of the confusion, wrong and multiplicity

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

of suits and the absence of all means of redress which
would result if the corporation paid the tax and complied
with the act in other respects without protest, as it was
alleged it was its intention to do. To put out of the way
a question of jurisdiction we at once say that in view of
these averments and the ruling in Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, sustaining the right of
a stockholder to sue to restrain a corporation under proper
averments from voluntarily paying a tax charged to be
unconstitutional on the ground that to permit such a
suit did not violate the prohibitions of § 3224, Rev. Stat.,
against enjoining the enforcement of taxes, we are of
opinion that the contention here made that there was no
jurisdiction of the cause since to entertain it would violate
the provisions of the Revised Statutes referred to is without merit. Before coming to dispose of the case on the
merits, however, we observe that the defendant corporation having called the attention of the Government to
the pendency of the cause and the nature of the controversy and its unwillingness to voluntarily refuse to comply
with the act assailed, the United States as amicus curi
has at bar been heard both orally and by brief for the purpose of sustaining the decree.
Aside from averments as to citizenship and residence,
recitals as to the provisions of the statute and statements
as to the business of the corporation contained in the first
ten paragraphs of the bill advanced to sustain jurisdiction, the bill alleged twenty-one constitutional objections
specified in that number of paragraphs or subdivisions. As all the grounds assert a violation of the Constitution, it follows that in a wide sense they all charge a
repugnancy of the statute to the Sixteenth Amendment
under the more immediate sanction of which the statute
was adopted.
The various propositions are so intermingled as to cause
it to be difficult to classify them. We are of opinion, how-

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ever, that the confusion is not inherent, but rather arises
from the conclusion that the Sixteenth Amendment provides for a hitherto unknown power of taxation, that is, a
power to levy an income tax which although direct should
not be subject to the regulation of apportionment applicable to all other direct taxes. And the far-reaching effect
of this erroneous assumption will be made clear by generalizing the many contentions advanced in argument to
support it, as follows: (a) The Amendment authorizes
only a particular character of direct tax without apportion-ment, and therefore if a tax is levied under its assumed authority which does not partake of the characteristics
exacted by the Amendment, it is outside of the Amendment and is void as a direct tax in the general constitutional sense because not apportioned. (b) As the Amendment authorizes a tax only upon incomes "from whatever
source derived," the exclusion from taxation of some income of designated persons and classes is not authorized
and .hence the constitutionality of the law must be tested
by the general provisions of the Constitution as to taxation, and thus again the tax is void for want of apportionment. (c) As the right to tax "incomes from Whatever
source derived" for which the Amendment provides must
be considered as exacting intrinsic uniformity, therefore
no tax comes under the authority of the Amendment not
conforming to such standard, and hence all the provisions
of the assailed statute must once more be tested solely
under the general and preexisting provisions of the Constitution, causing the statute again to be void in the absence of apportionment. (d) As the power conferred by
the Amendment is new and prospective, the attempt in
the statute to make its provisions retroactively apply is
void because so far as the retroactive period is concerned,
it is governed by the preexisting constitutional requirement as to apportionment.
But it clearly results that the proposition and the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

tentions under it, if acceded to, would cause one provision
of the Constitution to destroy another; that is, they would
result in bringing the provisions of the Amendment exempting a direct tax from apportionment into irreconcilable conflict with the general requirement that all direct
taxes be apportioned. Moreover, the tax -authorized
by the Amendment, being direct, would not come under
the rule of uniformity applicable under the Constitution
to other than direct taxes, and thus it would come to pass
that the result of the Amendment would be to authorize
a particular direct tax not subject either to apportionment or to the rule of geographical uniformity, thus giving power to impose a different tax in one State or States
than was levied in another State or States. This result
instead of simplifying the situation and making clear the
limitations on the taxing power, which obviously the
Amendment must -have been intended to accomplish,
would create radical -and destructive changes in our constitutional system and multiply confusion.
But let us by a demonstration of the error of the fundamefital proposition as to the significance of the Amendment
dispel the confusion necessarily arising from the arguments
deduced from it. Before coming, -however, to the text
of the Amendment, to the end that its significance may
be determined in the light of the previous legislative and
judicial history of the subject with which the Amendment
is concerned and with a knowledge of the conditions Which
presumptively led up to its adoption and hence of the
purpose it was intended to accomplish, we make a brief
statement on those subjects.
That the authority conferred upon Congress by §8 of
Article I "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises" is exhaustive and embraces every conceivable
power of taxation has never been questioned, or, if it has,
has been so often authoritatively declared as to render it
necessary only to state the doctrine. And it has also never

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court;

been questioned from the foundation, without stopping
presently to determine under which of the separate headings the power was properly to be classed, that there was
authority given, as the part was included in the whole, to
lay and collect income taxes. Again it has never moreover been questioned that the conceded complete and
all-embracing taxing power was subject, so far as they
were respectively applicable, to limitation resulting from
the requirements of Art. I, § 8, cl. 1, that "all duties,
imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States," and to the limitations of Art. I, § 2, cl. 3,
that "direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several
States" and of Art. I, § 9, cl. 4, that "no capitation, or
other direct, tax shall be laid, unless in proportion to the
census or enumeration hereinbefore directed to be taken."
In fact the two great subdivisions embracing the com-,
plete and perfect delegation of the power to tax and the
two correlated limitations as to such power were thus aptly
stated by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Company, supra, at page 557: "In the matter
of taxation, the Constitution recognizes the two great
classes of direct and indirect taxes, and lays down two
rules by which their imposition must be governed, namely:
The rule of apportionment as to direct taxes, and the rule
of uniformity as to duties, imposts and excises." It is
to be observed, however, as long ago pointed out in Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541, that the requirement of
apportionment as to one of the great classes and of uniformity as to the other class were not so much a limitation
upon the complete and all embracing authority to tax,
but in their essence were simply regulations concerning
the mode in which the plenary power was to be exerted.
In the whole history of the Government down to the time
of the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, leaving aside
some conjectures expressed of the possibility of a tax lying
intermediate between the two great classes and embraced

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

by neither, no question has been anywhere made as to the
correctness of these propositions. At the very beginning,
however, there arose differences of opinion concerning the
criteria to be applied in determining in which of the two
great subdivisions a tax would fall. Without pausing to
state at length the basis of these differences and the consequences which arose from them, as the whole subject was
elaborately reviewed in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Company, 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601, we make a condensed statement which is in substance taken from what
was said in that case. Early the differences were manifested in pressing on the one hand and opposing on the
other, the passage of ail act levying a tax without apportionment on carriages "for the conveyance of persons,"
and when such a tax was enacted the question of its repugnancy to the Constitution soon came to this court for
determination. (Hylton v. United States, 3 Dall. 171;0
It was held that the tax came within the class of excises,
duties and imposts and therefore did not require apportioament, and while this conclusion was agreed to by all the
members of the court who took part in the decision of the
case, there was not an exact coincidence in the reasoning
by which the conclusion was sustained. Without statihg
the minor differences, it may be said with substantial
accuracy that the divergent reasoning was this: On the
one hand, that the tax was not in the class of direct taxes
requiring apportionment because it was not levied directly
on property because of its ownership but rather on its use
and was therefore an excise, duty or impost; and on the
other, that in any event the class of, direct taxes included
only taxes directly levied on real estate because of its
ownership. Putting out of view the difference of reasoning
which led to the concurrent conclusion in the Hylton Case,
it is undoubted that it came to pass in legislative .practice
that the line of demarcation between the two great classes
of direct taxes on the one hand and excises, duties and,

-

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

imposts on :the other which was exemplified by the ruling
in that case, was accepted and acted upon. In the first
place this is shown by the fact that wherever (and there
were a number of cases of that kind) a tax was levied
directly on real estate or slaves because of ownership,
it was treated as coming within the direct class and apportionment was provided for, while no instance of apportionment as to any other kind of tax is afforded. Again
the situation is aptly illustrated by the various acts taxing
incomes derived from property of every -kind and nature
which were enacted beginning in 1861 and lasting during
-what may be termed the Civil War period. It is not disputable that these latter taxing laws were classed under
the head of excises, duties and imposts because it was
assumed that they were of that character inasmuch as
although putting a tax burden on income of every kind,
including that derived from property real or personal, they
were not taxes directly on property because of its ownership; And this practical construction came in theory to be
the accepted one since it was adopted without dissent by
the most eminent of the textwriters. 1 Kent Coin. 254,
256; 1 Story Const., § 955; Cooley Const. Lim. (5th ed.)
* 480; Miller on the Constitution, 237; Pomeroy's Constitutional Law, § 281; Hare Const. Law, Vol. 1, 249, 250;
Burroughs on Taxation, 502; Ordronaux, Constitutional
Legislation, 225.
Upon the lapsing of a considerable period after the
repeal of the income tax laws referred to, in 1894 an act
was passed laying a tax on incomes from all classes of
property and other sources of revenue which was not
apportioned, and which therefore was of course assumed
to come within the classification of excises, duties and
imposts which were subject to the rule of uniformity but
not to the rule of apportionment. The constitutional
validity of this law was challenged on the ground that it
did not fall within the class of excises, duties and imposts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

but was direct in the constitutional sense and was therefore void for want of apportionment, and that question
came to this court and was passed upon in Pollock v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601.
The court, fully recognizing in the passage which we have
previously quoted the all-embracing character of the two
great classifications including, on the one hand, direct
taxes subject to apportionnment, and on the other, e~ccisesi
duties and imposts .subject to uniformity, held the law
to be unconstitutional in substance for these reasons:
Concluding that the classification of direct was adoptedfor the purpose of rendering it impossible to burden by
taxation accumulations of property, real or personal, except subject to the regulation of apportionment, it was
held that the duty existed to fix what was a direct tax in
the constitutional sense so as to accomplish this purpose
contemplated by the Constitution. (157 U. S. 581.) Coming to consider the validity of the tax from this point of
view, while not questioning at all that in common understanding it was direct merely on income and only indirect
on property, it was held that considering the substance
of things it was direct on property in a constitutional
sense since to burden an income by a tax was from the
point of substance to burden the property from which
the income was derived and thus accomplish the very
thing which the provision as to apportionment of direct
taxes was adopted to prevent. As this conclusion but
enforced a regulation as to the mode of exercising power
under particular circumstances, it did not in any way
dispute the all-embracing taxing authority possessed by
Congress, including necessarily therein the power to impose income taxes if only they conformed to the constitu* tional regulations which were applicable to them. Moreover in addition the conclusion reached in the Pollock
Case did not in any degree involve holding that income
taxes generically and necessarily came within the class

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Cotut.

,of direct taxes on property, but on the contrary recognized
the fact that taxation on income was in its nature an
excise entitled to be enforced as such unless and until it
was concluded that to enforce it would amount to accomplishing the result which the requirement as to apportionment of direct taxation was adopted to prevent, in
which case the duty would arise to disregard form and
consider substance alone and hence subject the tax to
the regulation as to apportionment which otherwise as
an excise would not apply to it. Nothing could serve to
make this clearer than to recall that in the Pollock Case
in so far as the law taxed incomes from other classes of
property than real estate and invested personal property,
that is, income from. "professions, trades, employments,
or vocations" (158 U. S. 637), its validity was recognized;
indeed it was expressly declared that no dispute was
made upon that subject and attention was called to the
fact that taxes on such income had been sustained as
excise taxes in the past. Id., p. 635. The whole law was
however declared unconstitutional on the ground that to
permit it to -thus operate would relieve real estate and
invested personal property from taxation and "would
leave the burden of the tax to be borne by professions,
trades, employments, or vocations; and in that way what
was intended as a tax on capital would remain, in substance, a tax on occupations and labor," (Id., p. 637) a
result which it was held could not have been contemplated by Congress.
This is the text of the Amendment:
"The Congress shall have power to lay and collect
taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without
apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any census or enumeration."
It is clear on the face of this text that it does not purport to confer power to levy income taxes in a generic
sense-an authority already possessed and never ques.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

tioned-or to limit and distinguish between one kind of
income taxes and another,.but that the whole purpose of
the Amendment was to relieve all income taxes when
imposed from apportionment from a consideration of the
source whence the income was derived. Indeed in the light
of the history which we have given and of the decision in
the Pollock Case and the ground upon which the ruling
in that case was based, there is no escape from the conclusion that the Amendment was drawn for the purpose
of doing away for the future with the principle upon
which the Pollock Case was decided, that is, of determining whether a tax on income was direct not by a consideration of the burden placed on the taxed income
upon which it directly operated, but by taking into view
the burden which resulted on the property from which
the income was derived, since in express terms the Amendment provides that'income taxes, from whatever source
the income may be derived, shall not be subject to the
regulation of apportionment. From this in substance it
indisputably arises, first, that all the contentions which
we have previously noticed concerning the assumed limitations to be implied from the language of the Amendment as to the nature and character of the income taxes
which it authorizes find no support in the text and are in
irreconcilable confliet with the very purpose which the
Amendment was adopted to accomplish. Second, that
the contention that the Amendment treats a tax on
income as a direct tax although it is relieved from apportionment and is necessarily therefore not subject to the
rule of uniformity as such rule only applies to taxes which
are not direct, thus destroying the two great classifications
which have been recognized and enforced from the beginning, is also wholly without foundation since the command of the Amendment that all income taxes shall not
be subject to apportionment by a consideration of the
sources from which the taxed income may be derived,

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

forbids the application to such taxes of the rule applied
in the Pollock Case by which alone such taxes were removed from the great class of excises, duties and imposts subject to the rule of uniformity and were placed
under the other or direct class. This must be unless it
can be said that although the Constitution as a result
of the Amendment in express terms excludes the criterion
of source of income, that criterion yet remains for the
purpose of destroying the classifications of the Constitution by taking an excise out of the class to which it belongs
and transferring it to a class in which it cannot be placed
consistently with the requirements of the Constitution.
Indeed, from another point of view, the Amendment,
demonstrates that no such purpose was intended and
on the contrary shows that it was drawn with the object of
maintaining the limitations of the Constitution and
harmonizing their operation. - We say this because it is
to be observed that although from the date of the Hylton
Case because of statenents made in the opinions in that
case it had come to be accepted that direct taxes in the
constitutional sense were confined to taxes levied directly
on real estate because of its ownership, the Amendment
contains nothing repudiating or challenging the ruling in
the Pollock Case that the word direct had a. broader
significance since it embraced also taxes levied directly
on personal property because of its ownership, and therefore the Amendment at least impliedly makes such wider
significance a part of the Constitution-a condition which
clearly demonstrates that the purpose was not to change
the existing interpretation except to the extent necessary
to accomplish the result intended, that is, the prevention
of the resort to the sources from which a taxed income
was derived in order to cause a direct tax on the income
to be a direct tax on the source itself and thereby to take
an income tax out of the class of excises, duties and imposts and place it in the class of direct taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

We come then to ascertain the merits of the many
contentions made in the light of the Constitution as it
now stands, that is to say, including within its terms the
provisions of the Sixteenth Amendment as correctly
interpreted. We first dispose of two propositions assailing the validity of the statute on the one hand because
of its repugnancy to the Constitution in other respects,
and especially because its enactment was not authorized
by the Sixteenth Amendment.
The statute was enacted October 3, 1913, and provided
for a general yearly income tax from December to December of each year. Exceptionally, however, it fixed a first
period embracing only the time from March 1, to December 31, 1913, and this limited retroactivity is assailed
as repugnant to the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment and as inconsistent with the Sixteenth Amendment
itself. But the date of the Tetroactivity did not extend
beyond the time when the Amendment was operative,
and there can be no dispute that there was power by
virtue of the Amendment during that period to levy the
tax, without apportionment, and so far as the limitations
of the Constitution in other respects are concerned, the
contention is not open, since in Stockdale v. Insurance
Companies, 20 Wall. 323, 331, in sustaining a provision
in a prior income tax law which was assailed because
of its retroactive character, it was said:
"The right of Congress to have imposed this tax by a
new statute, although the measure of it was governed
by the income of the past year, cannot be doubted; much
less can it be doubted that it could impose such a tax
on the income of the current year, though part of that
year had elapsed when the statute was passed. The joint
resolution of July 4th, 1864, imposed a tax of five per
cent. upon all income of the previous year, although one
tax on it had already been paid, and no one doubted the
validity of the tax or attempted to resist it."

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute provides that the tax should not apply to
enumerated organizations or corporations, such as labor,
agricultural or horticultural organizations, mutual savings
banks, etc., and the argument is that as the Amendment
authorized a tax on incomes "from whatever source
derived," by implication it excluded the power to make
these exemptions. But this is only a form of expressing
the erroneous contention as to the meaning of the Amendment, which we have already disposed of. And so far
as this alleged illegality is based on other provisions of
the Constitution, the contention is also not open, since
it was expressly considered and disposed of in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 108, 173.
Without expressly stating all the other contentions,
we summarize them to a degree adequate to enable us to
typify and dispose of all of them.
1. The statute levies one tax called a normal tax on all
incomes of individuals up to $20,000 and from that amount
up by gradations, a progressively increasing tax balled
an additional tax, is imposed. No tax, however, is levied
upon incomes of unmarried individuals amouniing to
$3,000 or less nor upon incomes of married persons amounting to $4,000 or less. The progressive tax and the exempted amounts, it is said, are based on wealth alone and
the tax is therefore repugnant to the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment.
2. The act provides for collecting the tax at the source,
that is' makes it the duty of corporations, etc., to retain
and pay the sum of the tax on interest due on bonds and
mortgages, unless the owner to whom the interest is payable gives a notice that he claims an exemption. This
duty cast upon corporations, because of the cost to which
they are subjected, is asserted to be repugnant to due
process of law as a taking of their property without compensation, and we recapitulate various contentions as to
discrimination against corporations and against individ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

uals predicated on provisions of the act dealing with
the subject:
(a) Corporations indebted upon coupon and registered
bonds are discriminated against, since corporations not so
indebted are relieved of any labor or expense involved
in deducting and paying the taxes of individuals on the
income derived from bonds.
(b) Of the class of corporations indebted as above
stated, the law further discriminates against those which
have assumed the payment of taxes on their bonds, since
although some or all of their bondholders may be exempt
from taxation, the corporations have no means of ascertaining such fact, and it would therefore result that.
taxes would often be paid by such corporations when no
taxes were owing by the individuals to the Goverpment.
(c) The law discriminates against owners of corporate
bonds in favor of individuals none of whose income is
derived from such property, since bondholders are, during the. interval between the ededucting and the paying
of the tax on their bonds, deprived of the use of the money
so withheld.
(d) Again corporate bondholders are discriminated
against because the law does not release them from payment of taxes on their bonds even after the taxes have
been deducted by the corporation, and therefore if after
deduction the corporation should fail, the bondholders
would be compelled to pay the tax a second time.
(e) Owners of bonds the taxes on which have been
assumed by the corporation are discriminated against
because the payment of the taxes by the corporation does
not relieve the bondholders of their duty to include the
income from such bonds in making a return of all income,
the result being a double payment of the taxes, labor and
expense in applying for a refund, and a deprivation of the
use of the sum of the taxes during the interval which
elapses before they are refunded.

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

3. The provision limiting the amount of interest paid
which may be deducted from gross income of corporations
for the purpose of fixing the taxable income to interest
on indebtedness not exceeding one-half the sum of bonded
indebtedness and paid-up capital stock, is also charged
to be wanting in due process because discriminating between different classes of corporations and individuals.
4. It is urged that want of due process results from the
provision allowing individuals to deduct from their gross
income dividends paid them by corporations whose incomes are taxed and not giving such right of deduction
to corporations.
5. Want of due process is also asserted to result from the
fact that the act allows a deduction of $3,000 or $4,000
to those who pay the normal tax, that is, whose incomes
are $20,000 or less, and does not allow the deduction to
those whose incomes are greater than $20,000; that is,
.such persons are not allowed for the purpose of the additional or progressive tax a second right to deduct the
$3,000 or $4,000 which they have already enjoyed. And a
further violation of due process is based on the fact that
for the purpose of the additional tax no second' right to
deduct dividends received from corporations is permitted.
6. In various forms of statement, want of due process,
it is moreover insisted, arises from the provisions of the
act allowing a deduction for the purpose of ascertaining
the taxable income of stated amounts on the ground that
the provisions discriminate between married and single
people and discriminate between husbands and wives
who are living together and those who are not.
7. Discrimination and want of due process results, it is
said, from the fact that the owners of houses in which
they live are not compelled to estimate the rental value
in making up -their incomes, while those who are living
in rented houses and pay rent are not allowed, in making
up their taxable income, to deduct rent which they have

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

paid, and that want of due process also results from the
fact that although family expenses are not as a rule permitted to be deducted from gross, to arrive at taxable,
income, farmers are permitted to omit from their income
return, certain products of the farm which are susceptible
of use by them for sustaining their families during the
year.
So far as these numerous and minute, not to say in
many respects hypercritical, contentions are based upon
an assumed violation of the uniformity clause, their want
of legal merit is at once apparent, since it is settled that
that clause exacts only a geographical uniformity and
there is not a semblance of ground in any of the propositions for assuming that a violation of such uniformity is
complained of. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41-; Patton
v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, 622; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.,
220 U. S. 107, 158; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S.
608, 622.
So far as the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment
is relied upon, it suffices to say that there is no basis for
such reliance since it is equally well settled that such
clause is not a limitation upon the taxing power conferred
upon Congress by the Constitution; in other words, that
the Constitution does not conflict with itself by conferring
upon the one hand a taxing power and taking the same
power away on the other by the limitations of the due
process clause. Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264; Patton v.
Brady, 184 U. S. 608; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27, 61; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; Billings v. United
States, 232 U. S. 261, 282. And no change in the situation
here would arise even if it be conceded, as we think it
must be, that this doctrine would have no application in
a case where although there was a seeming exercise of the
taxing power, the act complained of was so arbitrary as
to constrain to the cc._Lclusion that it was not the exertion
of taxation but a confiscation of property, that is, a taking

BRUSHABER v. UNION PAC. R. R.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the same in violation of the Fifth Amendment, or,
what is equivalent thereto, was so wanting in basis for
classification as to produce such a gross and patent inequality as to inevitably lead to the same conclusion.
We say this because none of the propositions relied upon
in the remotest degree present such questions. It is true
that it is elaborately insisted that although there be no
express constitutional provision prohibiting it, the progressive feature of the tax causes it to transcend the conception of all taxation and to be a mere arbitrary abuse
of power which must be treated as wanting in due process.
But the proposition disregards the fact that in the very
early history of the Government a progressive tax was
imposed by Congress and that such authority was exerted
in some if not all of the various income taxes enacted prior
to 1894 to which we have previously adverted. And over
and above all this the contention but disregards the further 'fact that its absolu'te want of foundation in reason
was plainly pointed out in Knowlton v. Moore, supra, and
the right to urge it was necessarily foreclosed by the ruling
in that case made. In this situation it is of course superfluous to say that arguments as to the expediency of
levying such taxes or of the economic mistake or wrong
involved in their imposition are beyond judicial cognizance. Besides this demonstration of the want of merit
in the contention based upon the progressive feature of
the tax, the error in the others is equally well established
either by prior decisions or by the adequate bases for
classification which are apparent on the face of the assailed provisions, that is, the distinction between individuals and corporations, the difference between various
kinds of corporations, etc., etc. Knowlton v. Moore, supra;
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; Billings v. United States,
supra; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353;
National Safe Deposit Co. v. Illinois, 232 U. S. 58, 70.
In fact, comprehensively surveying all the contentions

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
,Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

relied upon, aside from the erroneous construction of the
Amendment which we have previously disposed of, we
cannot escape the conclusion that they all rest upon the
mistaken theory that although there be differences between the subjects taxed, to differently tax them transcends the limit of taxation and amounts to a want of due
process, and that where a tax levied is believed by one
who resists its enforcement to be wanting in wisdom and
to operate injustice, from that fact in the nature of
things there arises a want of due process of law and a
resulting authority in the judiciary to exceed its powers
and correct what is assumed to be mistaken or unwise
exertions by the legislative authority of its lawful powers,
even although there be no semblance of warrant in the
Constitution for so doing.
We have not referred to a contention that because
certain administrative powers to enforce the act were
conferred by the statute upon the Secretary of the Treasury, therefore it was void as unwarrantedly delegating
legislative authority, because we think to state the propoition is to answer it. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649;
Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 496; Oceanic Steam
NaigationCo. v. Stranahan,214 U. S. 320.
Affirmed.

