FARNHAM v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Government within the meaning of the law. See Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375, 382.
Upon the last two points the judgment of the Court of
Claims is affirmed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no

part in the consider-

ation and decision of.this case.

FARNHAM v. UNITED STATES.APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 107.

Argued March 2, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Where the officers of the United States charged with the matter have
refused the offer of a patentee for the use of his invention, and have
declined to use it, and, proceeding independently, make and use articles designed by themselves, which the patentee claims embody his
invention, there is no implied contract on the part of the Government to pay for the use of the invention; in the absence of such
contract the Court of Claims could not take cognizance of the claim
of an inventor for infringement of his patent prior to the passage of
the act of June 25, 1910.
While the petitions in this case must be dismissed because the claims
are based on an implied contract which has not been proved, the
judgment of dismissal should be without prejudice to claimant's
right to present his claim for infringement of his patent under the
Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851.
49 Ct. Cl. 19, affirmed.

facts, which involve a claim against the United
States for infringement of patent rights in connection
with postage stamp-holders, are stated in the opinion.
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

24G U. S.

Mr. George W. Ramsey and Mr. Hosea B. Moulton for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The claimant, in the year 1906, brought his petition'
to recover upon the basis of an implied contract for the
alleged use by the Government of his patented invention,
consisting of a stamp-holder. The claim was for profits
alleged to have been made between April 16, 1900, and
June 30, 1905. Another petition was filed, in 1911, upon
the same basis, to recover profits for the period between
June 30, 1905, and June 30, 1910. Motion to consolidate
the two suits, as involving the same issues, was granted.
Upon hearing, the court made findings of fact and held
that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. 49 Ct. Cls. 19.
The court found that, under date of January 4, 1898,
Letters Patent No. 596,656 had been issued to the claimant for improvement in stamp-holders. Models of the
proposed stainp book and an explanatory pamphlet were
submitted to the Third Assistant Postmaster-General
with the suggestion that the Post Office Department
should adopt this method of handling and selling stamps.
That dficer, on June 17, 1898, returned the books to thQ
claimant, saying: "The Department does not deem it
expedient to sell stamps in this way." 'The claimant on
July 14, 1898, replied, stating that the descriptive pamphlet and the model stamp books formerly transmitted did
not fully show the invention and that he requested a personal interview. Two days later the Government responded as follows: "Your plan for booking and selling
stamps is well understood; your explanation of it could not
be clearer; but, as stated in a former letter to you, the

FARNHAM v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Department does not wish to adopt it." In June, 1899,
the adoption of the claimant's device was again suggested
to the Post Office Department, and the Department
replied that it adhered to its former decision. On July 1,
1899, Edwin C. Madden was appointed Third Assistant
Postmaster General and he held office until March, 1907.
Soon after his appointment he took under consideration
the manufacture and sale of postage stamp books. He
designed, without actual knowledge of the existence of the
claimant's patent or of the correspondence with the Department relating to it, the stamp book now in departmental use. This stamp book was transmitted by Mr.
Madden to the Bureau of Printing and Engraving with an
inquiry as to the possibility of its manufacture, the details
of manufacture being left to that Bureau. It prepared
plans accordingly. After the public announcement that
the Department would begin the public sale of two-cent
stamps in book form, Mr. Madden learned for the first
time that it was claimed that there were letters patent
covering the proposed stamp book, and before issuing
the same to the public he requested the Assistant Attorney
General for the Department to examine all such claims,
and letters patent, and to advise him whether his book
would constitute an infringement. The Assistant Attorney General advised him to proceed with the public
sale as contemplated; that the stamp book to be issued
was not covered by any previous patents. Both he and
Mr. Madden examined the patents of the claimant, and
Mr. Madden also examined the correspondence on file.
From the beginninig the latter insisted that the invention
of the stamp book issued by the Department was his own,
being independent of the claimant's patent. In March,
1900, the Third Assistant Postmaster General addressed
a letter to the claimant's attorney expressly asserting
that the Department's stamp book was not an infringement. It wa& in these circumstances that the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ment commenced the manufacture of its stamp books
on March 26, 1900.
It is apparent that these facts furnished no basis for a
finding of implied contract on the part bf the Government
to pay for the use of the invention,-the only ground upon
which the petitions were cognizable in the Court of Claims.
Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163, 170; United
States v. Berdan Arms Co., 156 U. S. 552, 556; Russell v.
United States, 182 U. S. 516, 530; Crozier v. Krupp, 224
U. S. 290, 303, 304; United States v. SociNtd Anonyme &c.,
224 U. S. 309, 311. In this view, the consolidated petition
was properly dismissed and it is unnecessary to consider
the questions which have been argued with respect to
actual use and the validity of the claimant's patent. The
second petition related to a period extending to June 30,
1910, thus embracing five days after the approval of the
Act of June 25, 1910, c' 423, 36 Stat. 851, permitting the
recovery from the Government of reasonable compensation in cases of infringement. Crozier v. Krupp, supra.
This petition, however, like the first, did not purport
to present a case within this Act, but was rested solely
upon implied contract. The judgment, however, should
be without prejudice to the presentation of any claim the
petitioner may have under the statute; and with this
modification the judgment is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

