OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

For the reasons we have stated, and without considering
other questions discussed by counsel, the judgment of the Supreme Court of California must be
4Alrned.

JOHNSON, Dative Testamentary Executor v. WATERS,
Administrator.
A-PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOI

TIE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 16th, 17th, 1883.-Decided May 5th,
1884.

Donation (inter vivos), (morris causd)-Efquity-,JTurisdiction-Paties-Pleading-Presription.
In Louisiana a donation to take effect at the death of the donor, so far as it is
gratuitous, is a donation mortis causa, which can be made only by will and
testament, or by an instrument clothed with the forms required for validity
as such, and clearly showing by its provisions that it is a disposition by
will.
In Louisiana a donation of land inter eivos, reserving the use to the donor
until his death, is void if made without consideration :-if made with a partial considerati6n, the value of the object given exceeding by one-half or
more that of the charges or services q*cere whether the gift will not be of
a mixed nature, one part sale and valid, and onepart donation and invalid.
A Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction in equity of proceedings
under a bill filed by a creditor of the estate of a deceased person to set aside
for fraud a sale of the real estate of the deceased which was made and confirmed by order of a State court having competent jurisdiction, when the
inquiry is not into irregularities of proceeding in the other court, but into
actual fraud in obtaining the judgment or decree of sale and confirmation.
A creditor of the estate of a deceased person may maintain an independent suit
in Equity to set aside for fraud a sale of real estate of the deceased made
under ordet of Court, though a party to the proceedings, if he was no party
to the fraud, and was ignorant of it until after confirmation or homologation
of the sale, and no question about it was before the court which confirmed
the sale and passed upon the executor's accounts.
In Louisiana the acknowledgment of a succession debt by an executor or administrator, and the ranking of it by the judge in the manner provided by
the Code of Practice, suspend the prescription.
A complaint which sets forth as cause of action a subject which is prescribed,
without setting forth the matter which takes it out of the prescription, may
be amended so as to set that matter forth, if the answer admits its truth.

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.
A defective description of the representative capacity of a defendant in the
subpmna which summons him in is cured if he is properly described in the
bill, and if he appears, even by the defective title, and answers generally
without objection.
In a creditor's bill, brought on behalf of the plaintiff and such other creditors
as may become parties, it is error in granting relief to confine it to the
creditor complaining. The usual and correct practice is, by means of a
reference to a master, to give to all valid creditors an opportunity to come
in and have the benefit of the decree.
On the facts in this case the sale of the testator's real estate made by order of
a Parish court in Louisiana, and confirmed by that court, is void for fraud
as against bonafide creditors.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
iAfr. John A. Campbell for appellants.
lr. Ilenry B. Kelly and Xr. Julius Aroni (Mr. Henry L.
Lazarus and fr. Jo/n G. Simrall were with them) for appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced by a creditor's bill filed by William
Gay, a citizen of Kentucky, on behalf of himself and all other
creditors of Oliver J. Morgan, late of Louisiana, deceased,
against Oliver T. Morgan, his testamentary executor, John A.
Buckner, Ferdinand M. Goodrich, Edward Sparrow, and J.
West Montgomery, citizens of Louisiana.
The bill alleges that Oliver J. Morgan, at the time of his decease (which occurred in October, 1860), was indebted to the
complainant and to divers other persons; that he owed the
complainant $33,250, for which he had given him three drafts
or bills of exchange; one for $13,000, dated January 7th, 1860,
payable twelve months after date; one for $10,250, dated February 2d, 1860, payable 13th January, 1861 ; and one for
$10,000, dated February 10th, 1860, payable 25th January,
1861; all of which were unpaid at maturity, and were duly
protested; and that on the 23d day of December, 1870, the
complainant obtained judgment in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana against the succession of the deceased, for the amount of the drafts and interest thereon, which judgment it is alleged has never been paid.
VOL. cxI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The main object of the bill is to set aside as fraudulent and
void certain sales of the testator's lands made by the testamentary executor in January, 1869, to the defendants, Buckner, Montgomery and Goodrich, and to have the said lands
resold in due course of administration for the purpose of paying
the debts of the complainant and the other creditors, and
for an account of assets and debts, an injunction and a receiver.
It is alleged in the bill, amongst other things, that, at the
time of his decease, Oliver J. Morgan was the owner of a large
estate, valued at nearly a million of dollars, consisting mostly
of lands, abundantly sufficient, if honestly applied, to pay all
his debts; but the bill charges, in substance, that the defendants have fraudulently combined to defeat the claims of the
creditors by procuring the sale which is sought to be set aside.
It is stated that this sale was made under an order of the
Probate Court of the Parish of Carroll (where the lands are
situated) on application of Buckner, as guardian of his daughter,
and of the executor; the petition being signed by the other
defendants as attorneys, and untruly representing that the
lands were unproductive, and that it was necessary to sell them
all to pay the debts of the estate. It is further stated that
a simultaneous order was made, on the application of Oliver T.
Morgan as executor of the will of Julia Morgan (adverse to
and irreconcilable with his duties and trust as executor of
Oliver J. Morgan), for the sale of three-fourths of the same lands
as belonging to the estate of Julia Morgan; and that the sale
was made under both orders. It is also stated that, before the
sale, the confederates procured a false and fraudulent appraisement of the lands to be made at $2.75 per acre, reducing the
whole value thereof to $43,205.25, instead of $947,153.80, at
which they had been correctly appraised in the inventory. It is
further stated that, at the sale, Buckner became the purchaser
of 9,171 acres of the lands at $3 per acre; Montgomery,
of 5,040 acres, and Goodrich, of 1,500 acres, at the same price;
and it is charged that this price was grossly inadequate, and
that the sale was a sham sale, intended as a means of securing
the lands to the benefit of the family, and of cheating and de-

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

frauding the creditors. Various allegations are contained in
the bill tending to establish the charge of fraud.
The defendants filed separate answers, denying generally the
charges of fraud, and setting up various matters in explanation
of the sale complained of, and in opposition to the equity of the
bill.
They concurred in admitting the plaintiff's demand, and
the recovery by him of a judgment thereon in the Circuit
Court of the United States; but say that the judgment was
allowed to be taken by an arrangement between the attorneys
of plaintiff and defendant that the plaintiff, Gay, should acquiesce in the provision made for the creditors at the sale coinplained of, which provision was the purchase at said sale, by
the defendant Montgomery, of 5,040 acres of land for the common benefit of the creditors; in making which arrangement,
they allege that E. D. Farrar acted as attorney for Gay, and
Edward Sparrow for the estate.
They also admitted the various appraisements made in 1860
and 1868 ; but deny that the latter was a false appraisement,
or that it was procured by fraud ; and referred to various
circumstances in explanation of the great depreciation of the
land at the latter period, such as the depressed and unsettled
state of the country, the uncertainty of labor, and the high
rate of taxation.
All the answers rely upon the regularity and validity of the
mortuary proceedings in which the sale was made; and for the
purpose of showing that as much was done for the creditors as
could fairly have been demanded, they place great stress upon
the alleged fact that three-fourths of all the lands sold belonged
to the succession of Julia Morgan, the deceased daughter of
Oliver J. Morgan, and wife of Oliver T. Morgan, and not to
the succession of Oliver J. Morgan; and also upon another
alleged fact, that John A. Buckner, as tutor of his daughter,
had a mortgage lien, or privilege, on the whole property for
more than $100,000, which (as they contended) was more than
tie whole property could possibly have produced at the time
of the sale.
If these statements were true, they would go far to remove

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the .imputation of fraud in the proceedings complained of ; for
there would have been no motive for fraud if the just rights of
the heirs precluded the possibility of a surplus for the general
creditors. The matter will be better understood, however, by
a short history of Oliver J. Morgan's estate.
His wife, Narcissa Deeson, had died in 1844, leaving two
children by him, namely, Julia and Ann. Julia married, first,
one Keene, by whom she had several children; and, secondly,
Oliver T. Morgan (a nephew of Oliver J.), by whom she had a
daughter. Ann married a Mr. Kellam, by whom she had a
son, Oliver Ii. Kellamn; and the latter had a son, Oliver H.
(whom, for convenience, we will call Oliver 11. Kellam, Junior),
and died leaving a widow, Melinda M., and his infant son,
Oliver II., Jr. Thus Oliver IT. Kellam, Jr., became sole heirof his grandmother, Ann, and was himself represented by his
mother, Melinda, as his natural tutrix. Melinda afterward
married John A. Buckner, and by him had a daughter.
Oliver J. Morgan (sometimes called General Morgan), had a
large landed estate, situated on the Mississippi River, in Carroll
Parish, La., consisting of five plantations contiguous to each
other, Albion and Wilton in the centre, Melbourne to the
southeast, down the river, and Westland and Morgana to the
west and northwest, amounting altogether to over 15,000 acres of
land, much of it rich cotton land. ie also had a large number
of slaves, and considerable movable estate. The greater part
of this property was community property; but some of it had
been acquired after the wife's death. Only one-half of the
community property belonged to Oliver J. Morgan; the other
half belonging to his two daughters as heirs of their mother.
Ann having died, her share was inherited by her grandson,
Oliver IT. Kellamn, Jr.
In 1857 Oliver J. Morgan filed a petition in the District
Court of Carroll Parish for a'partition of the estate. An inventory was taken, answers were filed by Julia Morgan (who was
then living), and by Melinda M. Kellam, as tutrix of her minor
son, and evidence was taken as to the amount of improvements.
The slaves were inventoried at $125,715.60, and were divided
between the parties. The lands were inventoried, but the

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

appraisers reported that they could not be conveniently divided,
and recommended that they should be sold. An order of sale
was accordingly made, and the sale took place January 18th,
1858, and Oliver J. Morgan himself purchased all the lands for
$362,201.80. The value of his improvements was appraised at
$92,219, leaving a balance of $269,982.80, the one-half of which,
$134,991.40, belonged to the heirs. One-half of this sum, or
$67,495.70, was due to Julia Morgan, and the other half to the
minor, Oliver H. Kellam, Jr. Although the sale was for cash,
no money was paid. Julia Morgan and her husband, Oliver
T. Morgan, executed a request that the money coming to her
should be left in her father's hands; and Mrs. Kellam acquiesced in the same course with regard to the share of her infant
son. Thus Oliver J. Morgan became absolute owner of the
whole landed property, but was indebted to his daughter, Julia,
and to his great-grandson, Oliver I-. Kellam, Jr., each in the
sum of $67,495.70. A certificate of the sale, signed by the
sheriff and 0. J. Morgan, was filed in the court, as part of the
proceedings in the cause, stating the fact that the money was
not paid, but remained in 0. T. Morgan's hands.
By virtue of this sale a vendor's privilege arose in favor of
the heirs; but it is declared by the Civil Code of Louisiana,
art. 3238, that "the vendor of an immovable or slave only preserves his privilege on the object when he has caused to be
duly recorded at the office for recording mortgages his act of
sale." It appears from the recorder's certificate that this was
never done in this case.
As Oliver J. Morgan had but one descendant by his daughter Ann, and several by his daughter Julia, he desired, as far
as possible, to equalize their ultimate portions in the succession
of his estate; but having two heirs, his daughter Julia and
great-grandson Oliver I. Kellam, Jr., lie had the power of
disposing of only one-half of his estate, and the two heirs
would be forced heirs for one-fourth each. (Civil Code, art.
1480.)
le determined, therefore, that his great-grandson,
Oliver II. Kellam, Jr., should have only the one-fourth which
the law secured to him as forced heir, and that his daughter
Julia should have the other three-fourths of his estate. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

insure this object, on the 9th of March, 1858, he executed an
act of sale and donation to his daughter Julia, in which it was
stated that for the purpose of paying her the sum of $67,495.70
which he owed her, and to give her three-fourths of his landed
estate and to Oliver I-. Kellam one-fourth, according to the
estimates put upon the portions conveyed to each, he gave to
her, by way of donation, certain described lands, composing the
Wilton and Albion plantations, 3,047.86 acres, estimated at
$50 per acre; and the Morgana and Westland plantations, estimated at from $45 to $10 per acre; the whole amounting to
11,477.79 acres, estimated at $304,254.22; and leaving the Melbourne plantation for his great-grandson, though there is no
evidence that it was ever conveyed to him. The act of donation to Julia reserved the donor's usufruct for life, and declared
that he was to retain possession of the property, with the revenues arising therefrom, till his death. And it was further
declared that the act of donation, as [well as] delivery under
it, was tb take place and effect on the day of the donor's death.
This act was signed by Oliver J. Morgan, Julia Morgan, and
Julia's husband, Oliver T. Morgan, and was duly recorded in
the recorder's office.
Such a donation, namely, to take effect at the death of the
donor-so far at least as it is gratuitous-is a donation 9nortis
causa. Article 1455 of the Civil Code of Louisiana defines a
donation nortia ca usa to be an act to take effect when the
donor shall no longer exist. And article 1563 declares that
"no disposition mortis eausm shall be made otherwise than by
will and testament. All other form is abrogated." It is added
that the name is of no importance, "provided that the act be
clothed with the forms required for the validity of a testament,
and the clauses it contains, or the manner in which it is made
clearly establish that it is a disposition by will."
The donation in question had not the form of a will, and
was never treated or proved as such; and by the last will of
Oliver J. Morgan, executed but a few months before his death,
he revoked all former wills made by him.
If the document in question could be regarded as a donation
inter v vos, it would still be void for another reason. By it the

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

donor reserves the usufruct of the land to himself, during his
life; but by article 1520 of the Civil Code, treating of donations inter vivos, it is declared that "the donor may dispose for
the advantage of another of the enjoyment or usufruct of the
immovable given, but cannot reserve it for himself." It has
been decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a number
of cases, that a donation of land or of a slave, reserving the use
to the donor for life, is void. Lagrange v. Barr6 et al., 11
Robinson, 302; _Dawson v. Ilolbert, 4 La. Ann. 36; Ilaggerty
v. Corrn, 5 Ann. 433; Davis v. Carroll,11 Ann. 705; Carmouce v. Carmoucke, 12 Ann. 721.
It may be urged that there was a consideration for the act,
and that this prevented it from being void. But that consideration, as shown by the account contained in the act itself,
was only.$67,495.70 due to Julia (which the act was to satisfy),
and $9,530.72 to be paid by her to Oliver II. Kellam; amounting in all to $77,026.42; whilst (by the same account) the value
of the land conveyed by the act was $304,254.22. So that the
consideration, or charge, in pecuniary estimation, was only onefourth of the value of the whole property conveyed.
The exact account of the value of the lands, and of the
rights of the heirs in reference thereto, as made up by Gen.
Morgan himself, and embodied in the act of sale and donation
to Julia, is as follows:
" Whole amount of community lands .............
$362,201 80
" Lands acquired since the dissolution of the comm unity ....................................
75,760 00
"Whole amount of land ........................
$437,961 80
"Deduct amount due to heirs arising from sale of
community lands on the 18th of January, '58,
to each $67,495.70 .........................

"Balance divided by four ............
"Portion coming to Oliver H. Kellam ...........
"Amount due him as above .....................

134,991 40

$302,970 40
$75,742 60
67,495 00

"Entire interest of Oliver H. Kellam, in estimated
value of lands ...............................

$143,238 20

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"Three-fourths interest for Julia Morgan ........ $227,227 80
"Amount due as above .........................
67,495 70
"Entire interest of Julia Morgan ................
"Value

$294,723 50

of land conveyed in this deed to Julia

M organ ...................................
"Deduct entire interest ........................

"Excess to be accounted as before stipulated ......

$304,254 22
294,723 50
$9,530 72."

This account, better than anything else, explains to the eye
the motives and intent of Oliver J. Morgan in executing the
act of sale and donation under consideration.
Now, the Civil Code, article 1510, divides donations inter
vivos into three kinds-the purely gratuitous; the onerous,
which is burthened with charges; and the remunerative, of
which the object is to recompense services rendered. By article 1513 it is declared that "the rules peculiar to donations
intr vivos do not apply to onerous and remunerative donations, except when the value of the object given exceeds by
one-half that of the charges, or of the services."
In the present case the value of the object given exceeded,
ot merely by one-half, but by nearly three times that of the
charge or consideration. The act is subject, therefore, to the
incidents and conditions of a donation, and it is void by the
express letter of the code, unless it can be sustained in part by
virtue of its being a sale in part and a donation for the residue.
Pothier, writing under the old law, says that where the
charges of an onerous donation are of less value than the thing
given, for example, 2,000 livres, when the thing given has the
value of 3,000 livres, the act will be of a mixed nature, a sale
for two-thirds and a donation for one-third. Contrat de
Vente, No. 613, 614. Zachariae, professing to give the modern French law under the code, states it substantially as the
former law is stated by Pothier, and this would probably be
the construction of the Civil Code of Louisiana. By this rule,
the act in question would have been a sale for one-quarter of
the land contained in it, and a donation for three-quarters ; or,
to speak with accuracy, the proportion would be as $77,026.42

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of tho Court.

to $227,227.80, the whole amount conveyed by the act being
$304,254.22. If the old rule applies under the specific provisions of the code, the act was a good conveyance for the above
proportion, and void as to the residue. As this matter (of
validity in part) was not discussed before us it may come up
for consideration by the Circuit Court, if called upon to instruct the master as to the ulterior disposition of the proceeds
of any sales that may be made of the lands in controversy.
As the representatives of Julia Morgan allowed the lands to
be sold in 1869, they cannot claim any portion of them now
specifically as lands; but they may be entitled in equity to
such proportion of the proceeds, as the act of sale and donation
was a sale and not a donation. The whole value of the lands
was shown by the account to be $437,961.80. Of this amount
the sun of $77,026.42, the only real consideration of the act, is
about 17% per cent. Should all the lands be sold, the heirs of
Julia Morgan may be entitled to this proportion of the proceeds free and clear of all debts. We do not now decide this
question. For the present purpose, it is enough to say that it
is very clear that the act of donation did not convey to Julia
Morgan three-fourths of the land as claimed, and did not, in
fact, convey to her even one-fifth of the land, if it conveyed
any portion thereof.
But prior- to these transactions, and probably not long
after his wife's death, Oliver J. Morgan had placed his
daughter Julia on the Westland, and (perhaps) on the Morgana plantation, and his grandson Oliver II. Kellam on
Melbourne; the latter being succeeded by his widow, Melinda
M1. Kellam, and her minor son. The two families continued
to occupy these portions of the property, respectively, until
the sale made in 1869, and Julia Morgan and her representatives also succeeded to the possession of Wilton and Albion
plantations after her father's death.
Whether Oliver J. Morgan had doubts of the validity of
the donation made to his daughter, or not, he subsequently
made a will by which he substantially confirmed to her the
benefit which he intended by it. This will is dated May
1st, 1860, and the testator, after directing the payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

all his debts and giving certain legacies, gave and directed
as follows:
"Fourth. I give and bequeath unto my, beloved daughter,
Julia Morgan, one-half of all the residue of my estate, it
being my intention thereby to give to her all that portion
of my estate that I have a right to dispose of over and
above the portions going to my forced heirs; and in the
event of my said daughter Julia dying before I do, then it
is my will and I do hereby bequeath unto her children,
Narcissa Keene, Alexander C. Keene, William B. Keene,
Morgan Keene, and Julia 1I. Morgan, or such of them as
may be living at my death,. the said one-half of my entire
estate as above, it being my will that my said daughter
shall have, inclusive of her forced heirship, three-fourths of
my entire estate; but in the event that should she die before I do, then it is my will and the express intention of
this testament that those of her children who may be living
at my death shall have the said three-fourths of my estate.
"Fifth. I do hereby appoint and ordain Oliver T. Morgan,
my nephew and son-in-law, executor of this my last will
and testament, without requiring him to give security as
such."
Oliver J. Morgan died October 4th, 1860, and his will
was proved in the same month, and an inventory of his
estate was made November 7th, in which his lands were
appraised at $947,153.80, his slaves at $196,961, and his
movable property at $38,200: total, $1,182,314.80.
Julia Morgan died prior to 1868, leaving a will of which her
husband, Oliver T. Morgan, was executor. Melinda Al. Kellam married John A. Buckner, by whom she had a daughter,
Mollie Buckner. Oliver IT. Kellam, Jr., died without issue,
leaving his mother as his sole heir; and she soon after died,
leaving her infant child, Mollie Buckner, her sole heir, who
thus came to be the sole heir and representative of Ann Kellain.
Notwithstanding the large estate left by Oliver J. Morgan,
he died considerably in debt, and owed, amongst others, to
William Gay, the complainant, the amount before stated. The

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

coining on of the Civil War produced a great change in the
value of the property; the slaves were a total loss, and, no
doubt, much other property was injured or destroyed; but
through the management of agents, and in other ways, considerable income was derived from the lands prior to the sale
which took place in 1869. The crop of 1860 was over 2,500
bales of cotton, which must have produced at least $90,000
soon after Gen. Morgan's death. The sum of $21,870.68 was
recovered from the government for cotton collected under the
superintendence of army officers in 1862. The defendant Buckner, being examined as a witness, states that "1Montague had
charge of and cultivated Melbourne and Wilton in the year
1863, and I1. B. Tebbetts had charge of some of the places
during the years 1864: and 1865. In 1866 H. 13. Tebbetts
rented Wilton and Melbourne. Don't think he took Albion.
le was to pay ten dollars per acre rent for all the land that
he cultivated. Tebbetts promised Matt. F. Johnson and witness to pay ten dollars per acre for such land as he should cultivate on Melbourne and Wilton in 1866. The most of the
land was overflowed on Melbourne in 1866, and witness don't
know how much land was cultivated. Wilton was not overflowed in 1866, to his knowledge. Witness states that Tebbetts paid him $3,000 for the rent of Melbourne in 1866.
Don't know how much he paid Matt. F. Johnson for Wilton,
but that the rent was coming to Matt. F. Johnson from Tebbetts, according to the contract. Matt. F. Johnson and
Samuel L. Clambliss cultivated Wilton in 1867 together; that
is to say, a portion of the place. Charles Atkins cultivated a
small portion of Melbourne in 1868, as witness' agent and
manager. Very little was made on the place in 1868. Wit
ness don't remember who cultivated Wilton and Albion in
1868."
Henry Goodrich, a planter, nephew of Oliver J. Morgan,
states that he had charge of Wilton and Albion in behalf of
the heirs from December, 1868, till April, 1873, and that in
1869 these plantations produced 800 or 900 bales of cotton;
and about 700 bales in each of the years 1870, 1871, and 1872;
and that during these four years the price of cotton averaged

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

about $60 per bale net. Dr. Devine, another witness, states
that he, with two others, hired about 100 acres of Wilton in
1869, and they received about 30 bales apiece, or nearly a bale
to the acre, and sold it for 27 to 30 cents per pound, or about
$120 per bale. So that the annual product of Wilton and Albion alone in these years was not less than from $40,000 to
$50,000, and that of Melbourne, half that amount; and whilst
the result in the previous years, from the close of the war to
the beginning of 1869 was undoubtedly less, it must have
amounted to a considerable sum. Adding together the amount
of the movable estate, the proceeds of the crop of 1860, the
sum received from government, and the income realized from
the landed estate down to 1869, the aggregate was probably
not less than $200,000 ; all of which was first applicable to the
payment of the debts due from the estate. But as the outside
debts were not paid, the heirs or executors must have received
it. The executor's final account is in evidence, and does not
show that this money ever came into his hands; and the proof
is very strong that he allowed the heirs to appropriate it. The
amount which they thus appropriated, as well as the rental
value of the plantations occupied by them before General Morgan's death, was properly chargeable against any claims that
they had against the estate. How much they did receive nowhere appears. No credit is given therefor. .
As to Julia Morgan's interest, it is not claimed that the
estate was in debt to her; but it is claimed, and was claimed at
the time of the sale in 1869, that her succession was entitled to
three-fourths of the property by virtue of the act of donation
made to her in 1858, and that this portion of the property was
not subject to the debts of General Morgan, except the debt
due to Buckner as tutor of his minor child. It was conceded
to be subject to this debt, perhaps for the purpose of giving
greater force to the sale, as there was evidently an understanding between the parties, as we shall hereafter see. But we
think we have conclusively shown that the entire interest of
Julia Morgan in the property of her father was subject, at his
death, to all his debts, inasmuch as it was derived to her partly
by last will, and partly as forced heir. If any portion of her

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

interest was not thus subject, it could only have been a
small fraction at most-less than one-fifth of the whole property.
As to the Kellam interest, John A. Buckner, as tutor of his
infant daughter (who represented Oliver 11. Kellam, Jr.,
through the mother of both), claimed the entire sum of
$67,495.50 and interest thereon from 1858, amounting at the
time of the sale (January, 1869) to more than $100,000. At
5 per cent. interest it amounted to $t04,618.33.
As to this claim, it may be remarked that as Oliver J. Morgan intended to pay to his daughter Julia what was due to her
from her mother's estate by giving to her the lands which she
succeeded to and received, so he evidently intended to pay to
his great-grandson, Oliver II. Kellam, what was due to him on
the same account, although, so far as the record discloses, he
executed no act of donation for that purpose. But the careful
statement in the act of donation to Julia, of the account between
Oliver J. Morgan and the two heirs of his wife, in relation to the
landed estate shows that the lands conveyed to Julia exceeded
by $9,530.72 the three-fourths intended for her, including the
$67,495.70 due to her from her mother's estate; and the donor
directed that she should pay this sum of $9,530.72 to Oliver 1-.
Kellam. This payment, according to the account, together
with the remaining lands not given to Julia, but appropriated to
Kellam, completely paid and satisfied the debt of $67,495.72
due to him, and the one-fourth to which he was entitled as
forced heir. So that it is quite clear that Oliver J. Morgan
regarded the debt as paid, with the exception of the small sum
of $9,530.72 to be paid by Julia Morgan.
In other words, by means of the sale of the lands in the
partition suit, and the subsequent distribution of his estate,
Oliver J. Morgan intended that his great-grandson should
receive just what, if no sale had been made, the law would
have given him, and no more; and that Julia Morgan should
receive the remainder; so that in reality, and in equity, there
was no such thing as a debt due from him to his great-grandson, any more than to his daughter Julia. Whatever debt
there might have been was paid by the property which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

received-except the said sum of $9,530.72, which was made
a charge upon Julia's share.
This, as it seems to us, was clearly the intention and understanding of Oliver J. Morgan. Why should he have been
indebted to his heirs for the land or any part of it, when they
received every foot of it at his death, and had enjoyed a great
deal of it in his life-time; he being entitled by law to the use
of it during his life? The idea of an existing debt seems to
have been an after-thought.
This supposed debt was claimed and represented to be a
mortgage on the estate, and as having priority over all other
debts. But we have seen that this claim was untenable, since
Article 3238 of the Civil Code declares that the vendor of an
immovable or slave only preserves his privilege on the object,
by recording the act of sale at the office for recording mortgages, which was never done in this case. John A. Buckner,
in his petition for the sale of the property, in December, 1868,
makes the following allegation on the subject, namely: " That
your petitioner, Buckner, tutor, is creditor by judgment of the
district court in said parish [Carroll], as appears by reference
, on
v.
, No. in the suit in said court styled
." The only judgment to which reference
the docket as could have been made (so far as appears in the record) was the
judgment in the partition suit instituted by Oliver J. Morgan
in 1857. The judgment for partition was made November 7th,
1857, and the judgment for selling the lands was made December 2d, 1857. The certificate of sale, showing the amount bid
for the lands, and the sums due to the heirs of Narcissa Deeson,
was filed in the court on the 19th day of January, 1858. If
this certificate of sale could have been called a judgment, it
might have been a judicial mortgage; but it would have had no.
effect as such until recorded in the office of mortgages for the
parish. Civil Code, Articles 3290, 3297, 3314, 3318. The only
exception to this rule is made in favor of the legal mortgages
of minors and interdicted and absent persons, on the property
of their tutors, curators, &c., and of the wife on the property
of her husband for her dotal rights. Civil Code, Arts. 3298,
3333. In the present case, neither the judgment in the parti-

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

tion suit, nor the certificate of sale, was ever recorded in the
mortgage office; and Oliver J. Morgan was not the tutor or
curator of Oliver II. Kellam, Jr., who was under the tutorship
of his mother, Melinda M. Kellam. The claim, therefore, that
the debt due from Oliver J. Morgan and his succession, to
Oliver I1. Kellam, Jr. (if any such debt existed), was a first
lien upon the lands of the succession, secured by mortgage,
and entitled to be first paid, was entirely unfounded. Yet
this pretended debt, and its pretended priority over all other
claims against the estate, and the mortgage by which it was
declared to be secured, were used throughout the whole of the
proceedings instituted in 1S68 for the sale of the land, as
potent factors in getting up the idea and impression that it
was useless for any other creditors to interfere or make opposition, inasmuch as this privileged debt was sufficient to absorb
the entire property, and that if anything at all should be
conceded to the general creditors, it would be a mere matter
of grace and generosity on the part of Mr. Buckner.
We next come to the proceedings for selling the property,
commenced in December, 1868, and consummated in March,
1869.
First comes the petition, and as it is important, we state it
in full. It was presented to the parish judge December 9th,
1868, and is as follows:
"To the Honorable the Judge of the Parish Court in and for the
Parish of Carroll, State of Louisiana.
"The petition of John A. Buckner, who applies as natural tutor
of his minor child, Mollie Buckner, issue of his marriage with
Matilda M. Mason, widow of Oliver II. Kellam, and of Washington Jackson, and Dudley and Nelson and Ann B. Wilkins, all of
which petitioners appear as creditors of the succession of Oliver
J. Morgan, deceased, represent:
"That your petitioners are creditors of said estate ; that your
petitioner Buckner, tutor, is creditor by judgment of the district
court in said parish, as appears by reference in the suit in said
, on the
v.
, No.
court styled
;that your petitioners Washington Jackson
docket as

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and Ann B. Wilkins have claims which have been acknowledged
and ranked according to law.
"Petitioners show that said estate of 0. J. Morgan is under administration in the hands of Oliver T. Morgan, executor ; that
said estate is possessed of landed property situated in this parish,
but which is not yielding any revenues, and that the only means for
paying the debts of said estate is by a sale of the property
thereof. Wherefore petitioners pray that said 0. T. Morgan,
executor, may be ordered to sell the property of said estate for
the purpose of paying the debts thereof ; that an order may be
granted for the sale of the property of said succession, as mentioned in the inventory, and for general relief, &c.
"And the said Oliver T. Morgan, executor of the last will and
testament of Oliver J. Morgan, dec'd, appears and intervenes in
this proceeding and shows to your honorable court that said succession is indebted to the creditors aforesaid and various other
creditors, and that as said estate is without any means or funds on
hand in order to pay said debts, a sale of said property is necessary.
"Wherefore, petitioners and intervenor pray that an order may
be granted for the sale of the lands of said estate according to
law, and that inventory and appraisement of said lands may be
made ; that a commission may issue for that purpose to the
recorder of the parish, and that a writ of sale may issue to said
executor, authorizing him to make said sale, and for general relief
in the premises.
"SPARROW

& MONTGOMERY,

"A1 t'ys for Creditors.
"FED.

M.

GOODRICH,

" Att'y for _Fxecutor."
The following order was thereupon made by the judge:
"The foregoing petition being considered, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the prayer of the petition may be
granted ; that a commission to take an inventory be directed to
the recorder of the parish ; that the lands of said estate be sold
in subdivisions in such manner as the said executor may direct,
and in other respects according to law ; and that such subdivisions be sold in block, and after making such sale the said execu-

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

tor shall file a tableaux of distribution, and that a commission
issue to said executor, 0. T. Morgan, to make such sale.
"Done and signed in chambers this the 9th day of December,
A.D. 1868.

"C. A. DE FRANCE, Parish Judge."
Thereupon a commission was issued to the recorder of the
parish, who appointed Michael Gingery and W. D. Davis appraisers, and the appraisers made an inventory as follows:
1. Certain specified lots, comprising the Melbourne
plantation, 2,171 acres, at $2.75 ..............

$5,970 20

2. Certain lots, composing the Wilson and Albion
plantations, 7,000 acres, at $2.75 .............

19,250 00

3. Certain lots, composing Westland plantation, 5,040
acres, at $2.75 ...............................

4. Certain lots, composing the Morgana plantation,
1,500 acres, at $2.75 ........................
Total, 15,711 acres, at $2.75 ................

13,860 00

4,125 00
$43,205 25

This inventory was dated December, 1868.
Then followed a writ of sale, directed to the executor, Oliver
T. Morgan, and dated December 18th, 1868, directing him to
sell the said lots ; terms, cash on the spot.
On the same day (Dec. 18th) the executor, according to his
return, advertised the sale for the 19th of January, 1869 ; but
&fore the day of sale arrived, the idea occurred to the parties,
that Julia Morgan owned three-fourths of the property; and
hence, on the 13th day of January, 1869, Oliver T. Morgan, as
executor of the estate of Mrs. Julia Morgan, presented to the
judge another petition, stating the fact of having presented the
previous petition, and of the order of sale and advertisement,
and then adding as follows:
"Your petitioner shows that said Julia Morgan claimed to be
owner of three-fourths undivided interest in said land, although
they are claimed in toto by the estate of said Oliver J. Morgan,
and are offered for sale in order to pay his debts ; that the debts
due by him to the heirs of Oliver II. Kellam, who are also heirs
of Mrs. Narcissa Morgan, deceased, late wife of said Oliver J.
YOL. cxi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
Morgan, amounts to $137,000.00, being for one-fourth of the interest
of said Mrs. Nareissa in the community existing between her and
her said husband, which devolved to said heirs, and which community had been adjudicated to said Oliver J. Morgan at said
sum ; that said sum of money, so due by said Oliver J. Morgan,
is secured by legal mortgage on all of said land ; that in order
that said property may be sold to the benefit of said estate, it is
necessary that the interest of said Mrs. Julia Morgan may be sold ;
that her said interest is under the incumbrance of said mortgage,
existing against said Oliver J. Morgan, for the amount so due to
the heirs of Oliver II. Kellam ; that for the purpose of paying
the said sum the said heirs of Kellam, the interest of said Julia
Morgan, deceased, should also be sold.
" Wherefore petitioners pray that an order for the sale of the
interest of said Julia Morgan, deceased, in said land, may be
made for the purpose of paying said debt, and that the proceeds
of such sale may be paid by preference to the settlement thereof.
"That for this purpose, a writ of sale may issue to your petitioner, in his capacity of executor, to make such sale ; that such
sale take place on the premises, at Wilton plantation, in block,
and. for general relief, &c.
"FEID. N. GooDnicir,
"A tt'y for Executor."
And upon this petition the following order was granted:
"The foregoing petition being considered, it is ordered that
the prayer of the petition be granted ; that the undivided interest
of said Mrs. Julia Morgan, deceased, in said land, be sold at publie sale, in order to pay said debt ; that said sale be made at the
'Wilton plantation ' for cash, in block, and that for this purpose
a writ do issue to said executor, and that he be authorized to
make said sale.
"Carroll Parish, La., January 13th, 1869.
" C. A. DE FRANCE, Prlish Judge."
On the same day a writ of sale was issued in pursuance of
this order.
The sale took place (as advertised) on the 19th day of January, 1869, and the lands were bid off as follows: The Melbourne plantation (2,1T1 acres), and the Wilton and Albion

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

plantations (7,000 acres), to John A. Buckner, for $3 per acre;
The Westland plantation (5,040 acres), to J. W. Montgomery,
for $3 per acre ; and the Mforgana plantation (1,500 acres), to
Ferdinand M. Goodrich, for $3 per acre; total, $47,133. Deeds
were given to the purchasers on the 23d of January, 1869. On
the 26th separate petitions were filed by Buckner and Goodrich
for monitions to be published and the sales to them homologated. Publication was accordingly made, and decrees of
homologation were entered on the 2d of March, 1869.
This is an outline of what took place in the formal proceedings, and of what appears on paper. Several things outside
and behind the mere forms are to be noticed, all tending to
corroborate the conclusion, that this sale was projected and
carried out, not for the purpose of paying the debts due to the
creditors of the estate, but for the purpose of defeating their
payment, and of preserving the estate for the benefit 6f the
heirs.
The general scheme seems to have been, first, to circulate
and give currency to the fact that a large indebtedness of the
succession existed in favor of one of the heirs, sufficient in
amount to absorb the entire estate, and secured by a mortgage
giving it priority over all other claims; secondly, to depreciate
the value of the property so that this supposed indebtedness
would cover it all; thirdly, to put forward the claim of Julia
Morgan to three-fourths of the property which, even, if not
sustained, would show a complication of the title that would
affect the salable value of the land; and fourthly, to procure a
judicial sale by which the title might be cleared of all incuinbrances, and the land might be distributed to the heirs according to their prior interests therein, free from all liability to the
debts of the estate. If this scheme was not distinctly formed
in the minds of the parties, it seems nevertheless to have been
substantially carried into effect, with the added circumstance
of providing a liberal compensation to the attorneys and counsel by whose aid it was accomplished.
The following is the account given by J. W. Montgomery
of the manner in which the proceedings were initiated and carried out:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
"le thinks it was in the fall of 1867 John A. Buckner called
on him in the town of St. Joseph, where he (witness) was attending court, with a request that he should take charge of the collection of a claim against the estate of Oliver J. Morgan, which, with
interest, amounted to about $100,000, and which he was attempting to collect as a representative of one of the minor heirs of the
estate of Mrs. Oliver J. Morgan, and which claim he represented
to be, and which witness knew to be, in judgment against Oliver
J. Morgan during his lifetime, and secured by mortgage on all of
his property and was really the only mortgage on it.
" When witness returned home he mentioned the proposition
of Buckner to his law partner, General Edward Sparrow, who
refused to go into it unless some arrangement was made by which
something could be secured to some other creditors whom they
represented.
Witness himself was willing to take charge of
Buckner's claim and give up the others, because the heirs whom
Buckner represented had always been their client, and had a preferred claim by which witness thought he, the heir, could sweep
the whole property ; but General Sparrow adhered to the proposition that something must be done for the other ordinary creditors
whom their firm represented, and insisted on a compromise by
which something should be secured to them. Afterwards it was
agreed between counsel, Sparrow & Montgomery and Buckner,
that the creditors should be protected to a certain extent. In the
meantime F. M. Goodrich, attorney-at-law, representing certain
creditors, also insisted that his clients should participate in such
an arrangement. Subsoquently Oliver T. Morgan, the executor
of Oliver J. Morgan, insisted that there should be no preference
among the ordinary creditors. If one was to come in, all were
to come in ; that if Buckner was willing to make a concession in
favor of the creditors represented by Sparrow & Montgomery, lie
did not see any reason why all the other creditors should not
come in too. It was therefore agreed that other creditors, whom
their law firm did not represent, should participate in any compromise which might be made in that respect. It was then
agreed between Sparrow & Montgomery and Buckner that all
the creditors of Judge Morgan might be permitted to bid upon
the 5,040 acres before mentioned, without interference from his
mortgage claim ; that he would not press his mortgage claim
against the land that they should bid on, and that they might

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.
bid on it free from interference on his part, though there was no
contract or understanding that the creditors should absolutely
buy it, but only had a right to bid on it so far as their attorneys
might deem it to their interest.
" Witness had no further authority than this for buying in for
the creditors. In the exercise of a fair discretion, witness thought
he was doing the best for those which he represented, knowing
that Buckner's claim was sufficient to sweep the whole property,
and that whatever he might get for his clients under such an
arrangement was just so much clear gain, and so F. M. Goodrich,
attorney for other creditors, and Oliver T. Morgan, executor,
thought. Accordingly, after Buckner had made his concession
in this form, recognizing their right to bid on some of the property without interference from him or the claim he represented,
they then, as his attorneys, and as attorneys for some of the other
creditors whom they represented, presented a petition to the court
asking for a sale of the property to pay debts against the estate
of Oliver J. Morgan."
The witness added that, at the sale, by request of some of
the representatives of the creditors, and by understanding
between himself and his law partner, he, Montgomery, bid
upon the 5,040 acres [Westland] for the creditors; and Bucknor permitted him to buy in said property free from interference by his preferred claim, which "was the result of a
pressure bought to bear upon Buckner;" and he holds said
5,040 acres for the benefit of such creditors as choose to come
into the arrangement.
This statement is certainly a very remarkable one in view of
all the facts of the case as they have been demonstrated by the
evidence. The gravity with which the "compromise" was
made between Buckner and the other creditors, after "the
pressure brought to bear upon Buckner," is certainly interesting, when we recollect, what was clearly proved in the cause,
that the Westland plantation, consisting of 5,040 acres, which
was thus allowed to be bid off for the benefit of the other
creditors, was, at the time, overflowed with water, and was
estimated by several credible witnesses as worth not over a
dollar and a quarter per acre, whilst the Wilton and Albion

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

plantations bought in by Buckner were worth probably $25
per acre, as will be shown more fully hereafter.
The first thing that was done after the presentation of the
petition for a sale, was to appoint appraisers and have the
property appraised; since no bid could be accepted which did
not equal the appraised value of the property. Of course it
was essential to the accomplishment of the supposed object of
the parties that this appraised value should be as small as possible. It certainly was small enough-two dollars seventy-five
cents per acre for each of the five plantations. They were all
razeed down to one uniform value per acre, when the proof is
overwhelming that they were very unequal in value. But the
appraisement was a mere sham. The appraisers knew nothing
about the plantations; they never saw them. They seem to
have been picked up in the street and made their appraisement
at guess, if not at the dictation of some of the parties interested.
Their names were Davis and Gingery.
Ingrain, one of the witnesses, who had been Gen. Morgan's
overseer for several years, and now a planter himself, says he
was well acquainted with Davis, who lived in West Carroll
[the Morgan estate being in East Carroll]. le had the reputation of being somewhat of an idiot. His mental weakness was
notorious in the country, and lie was usually known by the
name of "fool Davis." le also knew Michael Gingery. IHo
resided in the western part of the parish, and was a man of
very poor judgment-a carpenter. Witness would not feel
safe in buying or selling by their judgment. Ile said further,
that he would not think it a fair appraisement to appraise lands
like Wilton, Albion, and Melbourne at five dollars per acre;
that such lands were worth from eight to ten dollars per acre
rent ever since the war. That before the war they could have
been sold for $70 or $80 per acre; and that they were worth
half as much since the war.
Davis himself, when examined as a witness, admits that he
had no knowledge of the Morgan property except a general
knowledge he had of all the swamp lands of Carroll Parish;
that be had no knowledge of the condition of the Morgan
property in 1869, except what lie heard from others, lie ad-

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

mits that he got his ideas of the value of property in the parish
from the prices at which property was sold at succession and
other public sales about the court-house.
A number of witnesses were examined as to the real value of
the property; but, perhaps, none more competent mnan Mr.
Ilenry Goodrich, a nephew of Gen. A[organ, and manager of
his plantations from 1838 to 1843; and again manager for
Matthew F. Johnson from 1868 to 1873. Ie thought the
appraisement of the land in 1860 was rather high, and that
about $500,000 would have been a fair valuation, ile said that
$3 dollars per acre, the price bid at the sale in January, 1869,
was a low valuation ; thought that the open lands in 1869 were
worth $75 per acre, and the wood lands worth $15. Tle spoke
particularly of the Wilton, Albion, Morgana, and Melbourne
plantations-not of the Westland.
Mr. Le May, who had been a planter most of his life, testifled that he had known the Morgan property since the year
1858, and in 1862 he managed the Westland plantation for the
succession. Ile added:
" Westland plantation and the adjacent lands are subject to
overflow and have been overflowed every year since the war.
Said Westland plantation and adjacent lands are of little value,
and witness says he could not estimate them to be worth more
than one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre at present and ever
since the war. He means to say that Westland plantation and
adjacent lands belonging to the succession of Oliver J. Morgan
he could not estimate higher than one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre.
" Wilton, Albion, Melbourne, and Morgana plantations are not
included in this estimate. Westland plantation is established on
the lands of the succession of Oliver J. Morgan furthest back
from the Mississippi River, and the adjacent lands referred to are
wild lands belonging to said succession.
Says that Wilton,
Albion, and Melbourne plantations have always been regarded as
first-elass plantations in the Parish of Carroll. Regards the lands
embraced in said plantations as worth about seventy-five dollars
per acre before the war, and twenty-five dollars now and since the

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.
war, cash valuation. Such lands have been renting for from eight
to ten dollars per acre since the war.
"Witness having heard read to him the deposition of witness N.
). Ingram, corroborates in the main his testimony in regard to
the location and description of the property, but does not appraise
the lands since the war quite as high. Witness does not think
that the appraisement of said Wilton, Albion, and Melbourne
plantations at three (3) dollars per acre in 1868 was a fair valuation
of said property. Witness considers that the same were worth in
cash at that time twenty-five (25) dollars per acre.
"Witness was acquainted with Michael Gingery and V. D.
Davis, who were the appraisers of said property. Gingery was a
carpenter by trade, and resided in the western portion of the
parish of Carroll, now West Carroll. ...
Witness considered Mr. Gingery to be an illiterate man, and not competent
to fix a value on said property. Witness says he has known W.
D. Davis as a citizen of the western portion of the Parish of
Carroll, now West Carroll, for several years. Witness says he
does not know of two more incompetent persons than Gingery
and Davis to appraise property. Thinks that more incompetent
persons could not have been found to make said appraisement in
1868."
Testimony of a different character was adduced, it is true,
but in our judgment the result of the evidence is, that the appraisement, as we said before, was a mere sham. We have
little doubt that the property of the estate which, in the aggregate, was bid off by Buckner, Goodrich, and Montgomery for
$47,133, was worth at least five times that amount.
But there is no wonder that the property sold at a mere
nominal price; there was no competition. The facts which
were circulated, that Buckner had a preferred claim for over
$100,000, and that three-fourths of the property belonged
to Mrs. Julia Morgan or her heirs, were sufficient to drive
away all bidders; and, as if this were not sufficient, one
person at least, who had intended to bid on the property,
was actually deterred from attending the sale by being told
that it was to be a sale for the benefit of the heirs, or a family
affair. Rhodes, one of the witnesses, says:

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.
"That on the morning of the sale of the succession property of
Oliver J. Morgan, in January, 1869, he and John Lynch went to
the Wilton plantation, where the sale was to occur, expecting to
attend the sale, and Lynch was calculating upon buying some of
the property. When they reached Wilton they found no person
present authorized to make the sale. Passed above said plantation and met Judge J. W. Montgomery and Ferdinand M. Goodrich, attorneys, going down to the sale. Major Lynch spoke of
going back to attend the sale and questioned them as to the terms
of the same. Mr. F. M. Goodrich replied to him that it was to be
a sale for the benefit of the heirs, or a family affair. Lynch was
informed that if he went back and purchased at the sale, he would
get a long litigation on his hands, and they induced him not to
attend the sale.

.

.

.

Witness is satisfied that if John Lynch

had been let alone by Mr. Goodrich he would have attended the sale
and would have bid something like the value of the property, and
it would not have been sacrificed for the nominal price of three
dollars per acre. Lynch, Ruggles & Co. paid about forty dollars
per acre for the Illanara plantation, situated about four miles below Wilton, and it is far inferior to Wilton and Melbourne plantations in value per acre. Witness is satisfied that Lynch would
have given more than twenty-five dollars per acre for Wilton,
Albion, and Melbourne plantations had he attended the sale, and
believed he could have obtained a valid title."
J. W. Montgomery was examined on the subject of the conversation between Lynch and Goodrich, to contradict lRhodes,
and he says, "that F. M. Goodrich stated to .Major Lynch
that the property was being sold to pay in part a
large claim against it held by the family. This is what I remember of Goodrich's statements."
We do not see that the contradiction materially affects the
result of the evidence.
Besides, the actual events which ensued, the proceedings at
the sale itself, and what took place after the sale, go to prove
most conclusively that it was intended as a mere family arrangement for securing the property, against the demands of
the creditors, in the hands of the two branches of the family
precisely as they had always held it,-except that for the sake

OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Opinion of the Court.

of appearances, the Westland plantation of 5,040 acres, then
overflowed, and not worth more than a dollar and a quarter an
acre, was bid off by Montgomery for the creditors ;-and Morgana, consisting of 1,500 acres, was given to Montgomery and
Goodrich for their services, and was afterward sold by the
latter for about $10,000. The Wilton and Albion plantations,
although bid off by Buckner, never changed hands, but continued to remain, and still remain in the possession of Julia
Morgan's heirs, whilst Buckner himself kept Melbourne and
occupied it as before. This is conceded by all the parties,
Buckner and Montgomery being fully examined on the subject and admitting the fact. The pretence that the sale was made
to satisfy Buckner's claim of over $100,000 was nothing but a
pretence; when pressed on the subject, he admitted that, although the aggregate amount of his bids on the three plantations sold to him (which was $27,513) was legally a credit on
the amount of the debt, yet that he did not claim the plantations held by the representatives of Julia Morgan, namely,
Wilton and Albion. Ile was examined as a witness in 1878,
nine years after the sale, and testified, amongst other things,
as follows:
" The heirs of Julia Morgan have held possession of the land
they had before the war ; and witness has held possession of
the land he had before the war. Witness does not hold the property in common ; there is only a temporary division.
"Witness has held possession of Melbourne ever since the war,
and the heirs of Julia Morgan have held possession of Wilton
and Albion, except that the heirs recognized Oliver T. Morgan as
executor, but he did not require of them any account of the rents
and revenues.
" Witness says that his understanding was, at the time of the
sale, in January, 1869, when he bought in the property for the
heirs, that they were to receive their proportion of the land purchased in witness' name, and he was to retain his proportion.
" They were (the heirs of Julia Morgan) to take three-fourths
of the land and witness one-fourth, and this understanding was
had as to the exact amount in the division after the sale. There

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

was no conversation or agreement with the heirs, or any other
parties, as to how the division should be made."
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further in relation to
the question of fraud. We are entirely satisfied that the sale
was a sheer fraud as against the general creditors of the estate.
The next question is, whether the complainant is in a situation to contest the validity of the sale by the present suit. It
is contended that he is concluded by the proceedings in the
Probate Court of Carroll Parish, which is alleged to have had
exclusive jurisdiction of the subject matter, and its decision is
alleged to be conclusive against all the world, but especially
against the complainant, who was a party to the proceedings.
The administration of General Morgan's succession undoubtedly properly belonged to the Probate Court of the Parish of
Carroll, and, in a general sense, it is true that the decisions of
that court in the matter of the succession are conclusive and
binding, especially upon those who were parties. But this is
not universally true. The most solemn transactions and judgments may, at the instance of the parties, be set aside or
rendered inoperative for fraud. The fact of being a party
does not estop a person from obtaining in a court of equity
relief against fraud. It is generally parties that are the victims
of fraud. The Court of Chancery is always open to hear comuplaints against it, whether committed in raisor in or by means
of judicial proceedings. In such cases the court does not act
as a court of review, nor does it inquire into any irregularities
or errors of proceeding in another court; but it will scrutinize
the conduct of the parties, and if it finds that they have been
guilty of fraud in obtaining a judgment or decree, it will deprive
them of the benefit of it, and of any inequitable advantage
which they have derived under it. Story's Eq. J ur.  15701573; Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 352-353. This subject
was discussed in Gaines v. _Fuenles, 92 U. S. 10, and Barrow v.
-Ifanlon, 99 U. S. 80. In the latter case, speaking of the proceeding in the Louisiana practice to procure nullity of a judgment, we said: "If the pyoceeding is merely tantamount to the
common law practice of moving to set aside a judgment for

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

irregularity, or to a writ of error, or to a bill of review on appeal, it would belong to the latter category" [that is a supplementary proceeding, connected with the original suit], "and
the United States Court could not properly entertain jurisdiction of the case. . . . On the other hand, if the proceedings
are tantimount to a bill in equity to set aside a decree for
fraud in the obtaining thereof, then they constitute an original
and independent proceeding; . . . a new case arising upon
new facts, although having relation to the validity of an actual
judgment or decree, &c."
These considerations apply with full force to the argument
based on the monition proceedings which were resorted to after
the sale for the purpose of procuring a homologation thereof as
against all the world. The monition, as issued by and published under the direction of the Probate Court, called upon
"all persons who could set up any right to the property, in consequence of any informalities in the orders and decrees under
which the sale was made, or any irregularity or illegality in the
appraisement or advertisement, or time and manner of sale, or
of any other defect whatsoever, to show cause within thirty
days why the sale should not be homologated and confirmed."
In the case of Jackson v. ludeling, 21 Wall. 616, we held
that the judgment of confirmation, or homologation, on such a
monition, has relation only to mistakes and omissions of the
officers of the law, and not to the question whether the purchasers obtained their title by fraud or were trustees mala flde
for others; and that such a judgment is conclusive of nothing
but that there have been no fatal irregularities of form. The
concluding remarks of the opinion in that case have a strong
bearing upon the present. It is there said: "A sale may have
been conducted legally in all its process and forms, and yet the
purchaser may have been guilty of fraud, or may hold the
property as a trustee. In this case the complainants rely upon
no irregularity of proceeding, upon no absence of form. The
forms of law were scrupulously observed. But they rely upon
faithlessness to trusts and common obligations, upon combinations against the policy of the law and fraudulent, and upon
confederate and successful efforts, to deprive them wrongfully

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

of property in which they had a large interest, for the benefit of
persons in whom they had a right to place confidence. Homologation is no obstacle to such a claim." In our judgment it is
equally no obstacle to the claim of the complainant in the
case before us. The same observation may be made with regard to the proceedings had in reference to the executor's final
account and discharge.
Had the question of fraud been before the Probate Court in
any of these proceedings, and had the complainant been apprised of them, the case might have been different. This court
would not try over again a case already tried, nor permit the
complainant to litigate matters which he had notice of, and
which he had an opportunity to litigate in the probate proceedings. But one of the grounds of complaint made by the
bill is, that the very attorneys whom he had employed to secure
his claim acted as attorney for the succession and heirs, and
conducted the proceedings for the sale, and participated as active parties therein, without giving him any notice of what was
being done. These allegations were substantially proven. It
was shown that Gay, the complainant, resided in Louisville,
Kentucky; that early in 1866 he sent his documents (the three
bills of exchange described in his original bill), to Gen. Sparrow, of the firm of Sparrow & Montgomery (lawyers), in
Louisiana, to secure his claim against Oliver J. Morgan's succession. The bills were presented by the attorney to the
executor, Oliver T. Morgan, in April, 1866, and lie endorsed
and signed on each an acknowledgment that it was a just claim
against the succession, to be paid in due course of administration; and thereupon they were submitted to the probate judge,
who endorsed on each bill an order that it be ranked as a just
claim, to be paid in due course of administration according to
law. The bills remained in the hands of Sparrow & Montgomery until the commencemement of the proceedings for sale
(or about that time). Buckner having applied to them to conduct these proceedings, the farce (for it seems to us nothing but
a farce) of making a compromise with the creditors took place
in Sparrow & Montgomery's office, and the claims which they
held against the estate were handed over to other attorneys.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Montgomery, when examined as a witness, admitted that the
bills of exchange belonging to Gay were handed over to Farrar,
and did not pretend that Gay was ever consulted on the subject. When pressed for an answer on this point, he admitted
that his partner, Gen. Sparrow, "did voluntarily and of his
own accord put the claim in Farrar's hands." He further
stated that this was only six or eight weeks before the day of
sale, and that Farrar had the bills on the day of the adjudication, that is, the day of sale; and there is not the slightest
proof to show that Gay had any notice of any of the proceedings. After having put himself, in his bill, upon want of notice,
and after this evidence on the subject, drawn from one of the
defendants, it was incumbent on the defendants to have shown,
if they could, that he had notice.
It is alleged, however, that since the commencement of this
suit, the judgment obtained by the complainant on the bills of
exchange has been reversed by this court on writ of error, and
that the claim on the original securities is prescribed.
It is true that the judgment was reversed in March, 1874;
and that the complainant, by leave of the court below, filed an
amended bill setting forth the acknowledgment and recognition
of the original bills of exchange, and relying on these evidences
of his debt, thus sanctioned, instead of the judgment. This
raises a question of law, whether a debt thus presented to and
acknowledged by the executor, and ranked by the judge of
probate, is subject to prescription like ordinary demands.
By the Code of Practice of Louisiana it is declared:
"Art. 984. No bearer of a claim of money against a succession
administered by a curator appointed by a judge or by a testamentary executor shall commence an action against such succession
before presenting his claim to the curator or executor.
"Art. 985. If such claim be liquidated and be acknowledged
by the curator or testamentary executor or administrator, he shall
write on the evidence of the claim, or on a paper which he shall
annex to it, a declaration signed by him, and stating that lie has
no objection to the payment of the claim, after which the bearer
of such claim shall submit it to the judge, that it may be ranked
among the acknowledged debts of the succession."

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Article 986 provides that if the claim is not liquidated, or is
objected to by the curator, &c., the bearer may bring his action
in the ordinary manner.
These articles show very conclusively that when a claim has
been duly acknowledged by the executor, and ranked by the
judge (as this was), no judgment on it is necessary. And such
is the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Louisiana. In a late
case, Rensliaw v. 81afford, Executor, 30 La. Ann. 853, the subject was very fully discussed, and it was held that the acknowledgment of a succession debt suspends the prescription
of it as long as the property of the succession remains in the
hands of the executor under administration. The court say:
"We think it manifest that the law never contemplated that a
creditor whose debt has been formally acknowledged should
bring a suit to establish his claim. The policy of the law
discourages such proceeding; would punish it by inflicting
the costs thereof on the creditor. True the law gives him,
after a reasonable time, . . . a right to compel the administrator to account."
After referring to previous decisions, the court concludes as
follows: "We therefore conclude that after a creditor of an
estate has had his claim duly acknowledged by the administrator, the law does not contemplate any further proceeding
on his part to establish it as against the estate. That, in principle, the administrator is his trustee, and holds in possession
for his benefit the property of the estate which is the common
pledge of the creditors."
From this authoritative exposition of the law of Louisiana,
we think it clear that the plea of prescription cannot avail the
defendants in this case. The bill was filed in January, 1872,
just three years after the sale complained of, and within six
years after the bills of exchange were acknowledged and ranked
among the just debts of the succession. The bills could not
have been prescribed before acknowledgment, because they
came to maturity in January, 1861, and the Civil War interrupted prescription as against the complainant (a citizen of
Kentucky), from April 27th, 1861, to April 2d, 1866. The
acknowledgment and recognition in April, 1866, had the effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to place the claim on the tableau of succession, and obviated
the necessity of any other legal demand. Although this was
sufficient to preserve the status of the debt free from prescription, yet there was another interruption by the legal demand
made by the action which was brought in 1870, and which was
in the course of prosecution until the reversal of the judgment
by this court in 1874, if not longer. Such a legal demand interrupts prescription "whether the suit has been brought before a
court of competent jurisdiction or not." Civil Code, Art. 3518
(3484). It is clear, therefore, that the debt was not prescribed
when this suit was brought.
The defendants, however, place some reliance on the fact that
the bill was not amended until March 28th, 1879, then first
stating the fact that the claim was presented to the executor,
and acknowledged and recognized, a period of more than five
years after the reversal of the judgment. We do not regard
this as material. The making of the bills of exchange was fully
stated and set forth, and the bills described, in the original bill
of complaint, and it was admitted and stated in the answer of
the defendant, that the said claim of the complainant was duly
acknowledged by the executor as a just claim against the estate.
With such a statement in their own pleading they could hardly
be heard to aver that the claim was prescribed. Besides, it is
difficult to see how it could possibly be prescribed, any way,
during the pendency of this suit, brought for the purpose of
securing its payment.
It is not insisted, as it could not be, that the fraudulent sale
is prescribed.
We are clearly of opinion that the complainant is not precluded from obtaining relief in the present suit.
Some technical points have been made in the case which we
have examined and think untenable. One is that after the decease of Oliver T. Morgan, Matthew F. Johnson was substituted in his place in the suit as dative executor of the said
Oliver T. Morgan, and not as dative executor of Oliver J.
Morgan. He was in fact both, and the bill of revivor, as
amended, distinctly states that subsequent to the filing of his
plea, answer and demurrer, by Oliver T. Morgan, testamentary

JOHNSON v. WATERS.
Opinion of the Court.

executor of Oliver J. Morgan, in the year 1873, the said Oliver
T. Morgan died; and that subsequent to his death, Matthew F.
Johnson had been appointed dative testamentary executor of
the last will of said Oliver J. Morgan; and that assets of said
Oliver J. Morgan had come into said Johnson's hands in that
capacity, and prays that he may answer and set forth whether
any and what assets of said estate of Oliver J. Morgan had
come into his hands, and for an account, &c. Upon this bill a
subpena was issued commanding the marshal to summon
Matthew F. Johnson, dative testamentary executor of Oliver
T. Morgan, to appear and answer the bill of revivor. Matthew
F. Johnson did appear, entering his appearance as "dative testamentary executor of Oliver T. Morgan" to the bill of revivor,
and to the amendments thereof, "wherein Stephen Waters,
adminstrator of the succession of Win. Gay, deceased, is complainant, and said Matthew F. Johnson and others are defendants." This appearance was entitled in the cause by its true
title and number. The subpoena was mere process to bring the
defendant into court. When he came into court and read the
bill of revivor, lie was informed that lie was called upon to
answer as dative executor of Oliver J. Morgan. This was
sufficient. From that day until the cause came here on appeal,
he defended the cause as representative of the estate of Oliver J.
Morgan, and made no objection to the technical defect in the
subpoena. The defect was cured when he entered his appearance without raising the objection, and it is certainly too late
to raise it now.
There is nothing else in the case, except the form of the
decree, to which we deem it necessary to give our attention.
The decree made by the Circuit Court in the first place
affirmed the debt due to the complainant, and, secondly, declared the sales made on the 19th of January, 1869, null and
void as against the estate of William Gay, complainant, and
directed that the lands be seized and sold by the marshal to
satisfy the debt due to the estate of Gay, with interest and
costs. We think that the latter part of the decree ought to
be modified. The bill was filed by William Gay "in behalf
VOL. cxi-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of himself and of all others, creditors of Oliver J. Morgan,
. . . who shall come in and seek relief by and contribute to
the expense of this suit." In other words, it is a creditor's bill
filed on behalf of the complainant and of all other creditors
that choose to come in and share the expenses, for the purpose
of securing the due administration and application of a trust
fund, namely, the estate belonging to the succession of Oliver
J. Morgan, deceased. On such a bill it is the usual and correct
course to open a reference in the master's office and to give
other creditors, having valid claims against the fund, an opportunity to come in and have the benefit of the decree. In our
judgment, therefore, the decree should be modified so as to declare and direct as follows, that is to say:
I. That the estate of said Oliver J. Morgan, deceased, herein
represented by Matthew F. Johnson, dative executor of the
last will of said Oliver J. Morgan, is indebted to the estate of
said William Gay, deceased, herein represented by Stephenson
Waters, administrator, in the sum of $33,250, with interest at
five per cent. per annum until final payment on $13,000 from
the 10th of January, 1861; on $10,250 from the 16th of January, 1861, and on $10,000 from the 28th of January, 1861,
and for all costs of this suit.
II. That the sales of the lands of said estate of Oliver J.
Morgan, adjudicated in parcels and subdivisions on the 19th of
January, 1869, to John A. Buckner, J. West Montgomery,
agent, and Ferdinand M. Goodrich, respectively, and conveyed
to them respectively by Oliver T. Morgan, executor, by
notarial acts passed before D. C. Jenkins, notary public, on
the 23d of January, 1869, and recorded in the office of the
parish recorder of the parish of Carroll, in notarial book N, at
folios 212, 213, and 214, be declared null and void as against
the estate of the said William Gay, complainant herein, and
against the other creditors of said estate of Oliver J. Morgan,
deceased; and that it be referred to
, one of the masters of the court, to take and state an account of the assets belonging to said estate in the hands of said dative testamentary
executor, Matthew F. Johnson; and that the said master be
authorized to summon said Johnson to appear before him and

JOHNSON v.

VATERS.

Opinion of the Court.

render account of said assets; and that said master give three
months' public notice by advertisement in a newspaper published in the Parish of Carroll, and in a newspaper published
in New Orleans, to all creditors of the said estate of Oliver J.
Morgan, deceased, to appear before him, the said master, and
establish their several debts.
III. If other sufficient available assets of said estate to pay
the said debt be not found in the hands of said Johnson, dative
executor as aforesaid, the said master is authorized and required to sell so much of said lands in proper parcels as may
be necessary to pay and satisfy said debts; and the lands so
sold shall be free and discharged of any lien, claim, or title
arising from, or by reason of said sales so made on the 19th
day of January, 18(9. If the available assets and the proceeds
of said lands should not be sufficient to pay all the debts of
said estate established before said master, including the debt
due to the complainant, there shall be apro rata distribution
thereof after the payment of all costs and expenses of the complainant, and of said reference and sale. The sale shall be advertised and proceeded in according to the laws of Louisiana
in reference to succession sales.
IV. The said master may apply to the court from time to
time for further directions, which are hereby reserved, especially as to the question whether the succession of Julia Morgan, deceased, is entitled to any portion, and what portion, of
the proceeds arising from the sale of said lands by virtue of
the act of sale and donation made to her by Oliver J. Morgan
in 1858, so far as said act was a sale and not a donation.
It is further our opinion, and
Fe order and adjudge that each partypay his and their own
costs on ths appeal, except the cost qf printing the record,
which sl1all be equally divided between the appellants and
appellees.

