PIJ(ENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
Statement of Facts.

PTITENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
IN ERROR TO TUE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW

YORK.

Argaed March 13th, 14th, 1884.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Bank--Confiscation.
The rule that the relation between a bank and its general depositors is that of
debtor and creditor, which was laid down in Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank,
2 Wall. 252, is affirmed and applied to deposits arising from collections on
behalf of another bank, a correspondent.
A proceeding under the confiscation acts of August 6th, 1861, 12 Stat. 319,
and July 17th, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, for the purpose of confisctting a general
deposit in a bank, which was directed against a specific lot of money, and a
condemnation and sale Lnder such proceedings, and a payment by the bank
to the purchaser at the sale, are no defence to the bank in a suit by an
assignee of the depositor for valuable consideration, claiming under an
assignment made before the proceedings in confiscation.
The confiscation act of August 6th, 1861, was directed to the confiscation of
specific property, used with the consent of the owner to aid the insurrection
and had no reference to the guilt of the owner, and could only apply to
visible tangible property which had been so used.
The 37th Admiralty Rule, in force before the passage of the confiscation acts,
provided a mode for attaching a debt in proceedings for its confiscation by
giving notice to the debtor of the proceedings to charge the debtor with the
debt and require him to pay it to the marshal or into court; and in the
absence of such notice the District Court could obtain no jurisdiction over
the debt, and could make no condemnation of it which would constitute a
defence in an action by an assignee of the debt for a valuable consideration
made before the proceedings in confiscation.

At the outbreak of the war the plaintiff in error was the
correspondent in New York of the Bank of Georgetown in
South Carolina, and had about $12,000 on deposit to the credit
of the latter. On the 20th May, 1861, the Bank of Georgetown sold and assigned to the defendant in error $10,000 of
this deposit. On the 4th January, 1864, the defendant in
error demanded payment of the $10,000 of the plaintiff in error
in New York. On the 5th January, 1864, proceedings were
commenced for confiscating the deposit. The nature of these
proceedings are described in the opinion of the court. They
resulted in a decree of confiscation and payment of the money
by the Phoenix Bank to the purchaser at the sale under con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

demnation. Risley then sued in the courts of New York to
recover the $10,000, and judgnent was finally given against
the bank in the Court of Appeals of New York, on the ground
that the confiscation proceedings were void. This writ of error
wag sued out to reverse that judgment.
_Mr. William ff. Evarts for plaintiff in error.

211>. John . Risley and iXfr. F. A. Wilcox for defendant in
error.
MIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of New York.
The defendant in error recovered against the plaintiff in error
the sum of $10,000 and interest by the verdict of a jury, which
found, as matter of fact, that the Bank of Georgetown, South
Carolina, having a balance with the Pihconix Bank of New
York on the 20th day of May, 1.861, assigned to Risley, the
plaintiff in the State court, $10,000 of that sun, of which the
Phoenix Bank had due notice by demand made by Rlisley January 4th, 1865. Risley v. Phnix Rank, 83 N. Y. 518.
With the questions which arose out of this transaction in the
State court we have nothing to do, except as they concern the
defence set up by the bank that the money in its hands due to
the Bank of Georgetown had been seized, condemned, and paid
over to the marshal of the Southern District of New York by
virtue of certain confiscation proceedings in the District Court
of the United States for that district.
The sufficiency of those proceedings as a defence to the
action raises a question of a claim asserted under an authority
of the United States, and, as the Court of Appeals sustained
the judgment of the inferior court of that State rejecting the
defence, the case, as to that question, is cognizable in this court.
The record of the confiscation proceedings in the District
Court was rejected by the State court when offered in evidence
by defendant, and our inquiry must be directed to ascertain
whether, if admitted, it would have/been a good defence.
The judge, before whom the jury trial was had, refused to
receive the record in evidence, because it showed that the con-

PH(ENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

fiscation proceedings, being in ren, were directed against certain specific money, which was the property of the Georgetown
Bank and which the Phoenix Bank held as a special -deposit in
the nature of a bailment, and not against the debt which the
Phoenix Bank owed to the Georgetown Bank arising out of
their relations as corresponding banks; that this debt being assigned to Risley, the plaintiff was unaffected by the confiscation
proceedings, because it was not mentioned in them, and no
attempt was made to subject that debt to condemnation.
That the relation of the Phoenix Bank and the Georgetown
Bank was that of debtor and creditor and nothing" more, has
been the settled doctrine of this court, as it is believed to be of
all others, since the case of the Marnie Bank v. Tlie Fulton
Bank, 2 Wall. 252. In that case, it was said that "All deposits made with bankers may be divided into two classes,
namely, those in which the bank is bailee of the depositor, the
title to the thing deposited remaining with the latter; and that
other kind of deposit of money peculiar to the banking business, in which the depositor, for his own convenience, parts
with the title to his money and loans it to the banker; and the
latter, in consideration of the loan of the money and the right
to use it for his own profit, agrees to refund the same amount
or any part thereof, on demand." "It would be a waste of
time," said the court, "to prove that this latter was a debtor
and creditor relation." This proposition has been reaffirmed
in T]'/ompsom v. Riggs, 5 Wall. 663; Bank v. 9J'tllard,10 Wall.
152; Oulton v. Savings ]sttution, 17 Wall. 109; Scamnion
v. uinball, 92 U. S. 362; and Newcomb v. WVood, 97 U. S. 581.
iMir. Parker, the cashier of the Phoenix Bank, speaking of the
time when the marshal served the monition in the confiscation
case on him, says that there were no specific funds, separate in
kind, in the bank belonging to the Georgetown Bank, and only
a general indebtedness in account for money, or drafts remitted,
which had been collected. "It was a debt. No specific money
or bills the property of the Georgetown Bank."
The libel of information in the District Court commences by
saying that it is "against the estate, property, money, stocks,
credits, and effects, to wit: against $15,000 (fifteen thousand

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

dollars), more or less, belonging to the Bank of Georgetown, a
corporation doing business at Georgetown, in the State of
South Carolina, which said $15,000 is now in cash, and is now
on deposit in the Phoenix Bank, a corporation doing business in
the city of New York, all of which are owned by and belonging to and are the property of the said Bank of Georgetown."
. And it is alleged that, by reason of the use of this property
in aid of the rebellion and the treasonable practices of the
Georgetown Bank, the said property, estate, and effects are
subject to lawful prize, capture, and seizure, and should be confiscated and condemned.
The monition, after reciting the libel against $15,000 belonging to the Georgetown Bank, which said $15,000 is now in cash
and on deposit with the Phoenix Bank, commands the marshal
to attach the said $15,000, and to detain the same in his custody
until the further order of the court.
The return of the marshal is that he attached $13,000, more
or less, deposited in the Phoenix Bank, belonging to the Bank
of Georgetown, and gave notice to all persons claiming the
same that the court would try the case on January 24th thereafter.
The decree of the court is, that he, the judge, doth hereby
order, sentence, and decree that $112,117.Tflu belonging to the
Bank of Georgetown, of Georgetown, in the State of South
Carolina, and now on deposit in the Phoenix Bank, in the city
of New York, which said, $12,117.38 has been heretofore seized
by the marshal in this proceeding, be and the same is hereby
condemned as forfeited to the United States.
On this sentence a venditione exponas was issued to the marshal, in which he is ordered to sell this $12,117.38, and to have
the moneys arising from the sale at the District Court on a day
mentioned.
It is not possible to understand that this case proceeded on
any other idea than the actual seizure of a specific lot of money,
supposed at first to amount to $15,000, but which turned out
to be less, and that that lot of money was seized, was formally
condemned and ordered by the court to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale brought into court for distribution under the

PIRENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

confiscation law. The specific money is described by apt words,
as the property of the Bank of Georgetown, for whose miseonduct it is seized, condemned and forfeited.
The very language is used, and no other, that would be if it
were twelve hundred horses instead of $12,000, of which the
Georgetown Bank was owner, though in the possession of the
Phoenix Bank.
There is not the slightest intimation in the libel, the monition,
the return to that monition, or in the final decree, that a debt
due by the Phonix Bank to the Georgetown Bank is attached,
and no language appropriate to such a purpose is found in the
whole proceeding from the beginning to the end. On the contrary, the whole case presents the idea of tangible property,
actual cash taken by manual seizure, in the hands of the
Phoenix bank, the ownership of which was in the Georgetown
Bank; that these dollars, whether of gold, silver or bank bills,
were to be placed in the hands of the marshal and sold, and the
sum bid for them brought into court under its order.
In further illustration of this idea, the libel charges that the
Bank of Georgetown, the owner of the property libelled, did
purchase and acquire said property, and the same was sold and
given to it by a person unknown to the attorney, with intent to
them to use and employ, and to suffer the same to be used and
employed, in aiding, abetting, and promoting the insurrection
and resistance to the laws, and in aiding and abetting the persons engaged therein, and that the Georgetown Bank did knowingly use and consent to such use of the property, contrary to
the provisions of "An Act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes," approved August 6th, 1861.
It is beyond question that this act was directed to the
confiscation of specific property used with the consent of the
owner to aid the insurrection, and had no reference to the guilt
of the owner, and could only apply to visible, tangible property which had been so used.
If the thing seized and condemned in the District Court
was the actual dollars, they were the property of the Phconix
Bank, and the loss was its loss, and that did not satisfy the
debt which at that time it owed to iRisley; nor would it
VOL. exi-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

have been otherwise if the debt had been then due to the
Georgetown Bank, for the debt was not seized, but the dollars of the Phoenix Bank.
Counsel for plaintiff in error insists strenuously, however,
that it was the debt which was intended to be seized and condeinned, and which constitutes the res in the proceeding.
We are not able to see that this view of the matter places
the case in any more favorable condition for the bank.
While the manner of seizing ordinary personal property or real
estate, for the purposes of confiscation proceedings, under the
two acts of Congress on which this libel professes to be founded,
namely, the act of April 6th, 1861, and the act of July 17th,
1862, is easily understood and followed, namely, an actual seizure and actual possession by the officer under the monition, it
has not been so plain what proceeding should be had in the
confiscation of debts due to one who has incurred the penalty
of such confiscation and who is not within the jurisdiction of
the court.
In this class of cases, where the debt is evinced by a note, bond,
or other instrument in writing whose possession carries the right
to receive the debt, it may be that the manual seizure of that
instrument gives jurisdiction to the court to confiscate it and
the debt which it represents.
And we are not prepared to say that the debt itself may not
be confiscated in the absence of the bond or note which
represents it. But in this class of cases, and in the case of an
indebtedness on a balance of accounts where no writing or other
instrument represents the debt or ascertains its amount, or earries with it by transfer the right to receive it, it is obvious that
something more is necessary than the statement of the marshal
that he has attached or seized a certain sum of money.
In the case of Miller v. tiited Staes, 11 Wall. 268, which
was a case of confliscation of stock in a railroad company, these
difficulties are fully considered, and it is there held that the
proper mode of seizure of such stock is by notice of the proeeding and attachment to the proper officer of the company,
whose stock is the subject of the proceeding. And the same
matter is very fully considered in the subsequent ease of Alex-

PWRENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

andrav. Fabfax, 95 U. S. 774, where the sufficiency of the

seizure was brought up collaterally in another suit, and the
whole proceeding held void, because notice of the seizure or attachinent of the debt of the city of Alexandria was not made
to the officer of the city named by the statute of the State,
though it was given to another officer of the city government.
The statute authorizing these confiscation proceedings requires that they be conducted according to proceedings in
admiralty as near as may be, and hence libels, monitions,
publications, and sentences have been the usual mode of enforcing confiscation. The 37th Admiralty Rule, in force long
before this statute was enacted, provides how such seizures
shall be made.
"JIn cases of foreign attachment, the garnishee shall be required
to answer under oath or solemn affirmation as to the debts, credits,
or effects of the defendant in his hands, and to such interrogatories
touching the same as may be propounded to him by the libellant ;
and if he should refuse so to do, the court may award compulsory
process against him. If he admits any debts, credits, or effects,
the same shall be held in his hands liable to the exigency of
the suit."

Here was a plain mode of attaching the debt of the Phoenix
Bank due to the Georgetown Bank pointed out by the very
rule to which the act of Congress referred as prescribing the
mode of practice in such eases.
In the first case, above referred to, the court, after referring
to the practice in admiralty, said: "These are indeed, proceedings to compel appearance, but they are, nevertheless, attachments or seizures bringing the subject seized within the
jurisdiction of the court, and, what is of primary importance,
they show that, in admiralty practice, rij/gts ?n action, t/ings
intangible as soks and credits, are attached by notice to the
debtor or holder without the aid of any statute."
In the latter case the court said: "We are compelled to
inquire whether the simple statement of the marshal, that he
had given notice to R. Johnson, auditor of the city, was a

OCTOBER TERM,

1ss83.

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient seizure, in face of the conceded fact that he had made
no actual or manual seizure of anything to give jurisdiction to
the court. And in determining what it was of which Johnson
had notice, it is, perhaps, fair to infer that the marshal read to
him the paper issued by the district attorney."
The court, after saying there is no doubt that the stocks
were credits and liable to confiscation within the meaning of
the act, added:
"It is clear that there was a mode of reaching them under
the act of Congress, notwithstanding the evidences of Fairfax's
right to them were in his pocket and beyond the reach of the
court. If the debt due him had been by an individual, there
would have been no difficulty in serving such a process or notice
on the debtor, as would have subjected him to the order of the
court in regard to it."
The record of the District Court in the confiscation proceedings
gives no evidence of any service of notice on the Phoenix Bank,
the debtor in this case, and as it was an ex _parte proceeding
in the absence of the party whose property was condemned, the
language of the court in Alexandria v. Fairfaxis appropriate,
that "where the seizure of it is a sine qua non to the jurisdiction
of the court, and where, as in the present case, actual manncaption is impossible, the evidence which supports a constructive seizure should be scrutinized closely, and be of a
character as satisfactory as that which would subject the party
holding the fund or owing the debt, which is the object of the
proceedings, to an ordinary civil suit in the same court."
95 U. S. at p. 779.
Assuming that, as argued by counsel, this was a proceeding
to reach the debt of the Phoenix Bank to the Georgetown
Bank, then it could not be the subject of actual manucaption
or seizure, and there should be such evidence of service of the
attachment or notice on the Phoenix Bank as would be sufficient in an ordinary civil suit for that debt.
Nothing of the kind is shown here. No notice of any kind
to the Phoenix Bank is shown in that record.
But in the deposition of the cashier of the Phoenix Bank in
the present suit, he is shown the monition in the confiscation

PI (ENIX BANK v. RISLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

case, and says that paper was served on him on the 5th day of
January, 1865, at 11.50 in the morning.
It admits of grave doubt whether the essential fact on which
the jurisdiction of the court in the confiscation case depended, not being found in the record, can be supplied in
another suit where it is introduced in evidence, by parol proof
of that fact.
But if it could be done at all, the monition which was served
on the cashier gave no intimation of 'a proceeding to charge
the Phoenix Bank with a debt due from it to the Georgetown
Bank, and require it to pay said debt to the marshal or
into the court. Nothing in that monition required the bank
to answer in regard to such a debt, and the bank made no
answer. If it had been called on by that notice to answer,
as it certainly would if a debt was claimed of it as being due
to the Georgetown Bank, it would have been bound at its peril
to have disclosed the assignment of that debt to Risley by the
Georgetown Bank, and the demand and notice of Risley to the
Phoenix Bank before the commencement of the confiscation
proceedings. Indeed it is quite remarkable that no answer or
appearance for the Phoenix Bank is made in that proceeding.
If the money, the actual eash in the bank vaults, was attached,
the bank must have known that the dollars were its dollars,
and it should have defended. If it was the debt which was attached, its legal duty to its creditor, whether that was Risley
or the Georgetown Bank, was to have stated the facts to the
court.
It does not appear to us that any seizure or attachment of
the debt due by the Phoenix Bank to the Georgetown Bank
was made, by which the District Court, if it intended to do so,
obtained jurisdiction to confiscate it.
On the whole case, we are of opinion1st. That the specific money in the Phoenix Bank, against
which the confiscation proceedings seem to have been directed,
and which was condemned, was the money of that bank, and
not of the Georgetown Bank, and the loss, if any, is the loss
of the Phcmnix Bank.
2d. That no such seizure or attachment was made of the debt

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

due by the Phoenix Bank to the Georgetown Bank, if any such
debt existed, when the proceedings were commenced, as would
give the District Court jurisdiction of that debt, and no actual
condemnation of that debt, or order on the Pholenix Bank to pay
it, was made, which can constitute a defence to the present
action.
3d. That the right of Risley to recover the debt as assignee
of the Georgetown Bank remains unaffected by those proceedings.
The juadment of the Court of Appeals of New -Yorc is

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY
v. WHITE.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 11th, 1884.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Jurisdiction-Pracliee--Removalof Causes.
When a cause is properly removed from a State court to a Federal court, and
the State court nevertheless proceeds with the case, and forces to trial tihe
party upon whose petition the removal was made, the proper remedy is by
writ of error after final judgment, and not by prohibition or punishment
for contempt. Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214, and Removal
Cases, 100 U S. 457, again reaffirmed.

This was a petition for an original process from this court to
stay proceedings in the Circuit Court of Greenbrier County,
West Virginia, in a suit in which the defendant in these proceedings was plaintiff and the plaintiff in these proceedings was
defendant, on the ground that the cause was removed to the
Federal courts under the removal act, and that the substantial
rights of the parties were involved in a suit, pending in this
court, in error to the Court of Appeals of West Virginia. The
facts upon which the motion was founded appear in the
opinion of the court.
.Mr.I. S. logegnan for the railroad company, petitioner.

