LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Statement of Facts

courts of the nation whose authority and existence have been
alike assailed." Slotbridge v. il/acon, Chase's Decisions, 136.
The executor cannot escape the consequences of the insurrection in the community of which he was a member, whatever
may have been his individual feelings and wishes as to its
action. Besides, also, if questions of hardship are to be considered, the plaintiff might put in her claim there.
Tle judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed,and the
cause remanded, with direetions to afirm the decree of the
Chancery Court of lonroe County, so far as concerns the
claim of the plainff Eizca Stevens, who alone has brought
the ease here; and it is so ordered.

BURROW-GILES LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY v. SA-

RONY.
IN

ERROR TO TIlE CIRCUIT
SOUTHERN

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT

FOR THE

OF NEW YORK.

Submitted December 13th, 1883.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Copyright.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress to confer upon the author,
inventor, designer, or proprietor of a photograph the rights conferred by
Rev. Stat. 4952, so far as the photograph is a representation of original
intellectual conceptions.
The object of the requirement in the act of June 18th, 1874, 18 Stat. 78, that
notice of a copyright in a photograph shall be given by inscribing upon
some visible portion of it the words Copyright, the date, and the name
of the proprietor, is to give notice of the copyright to the public ; and a
notice which gives his surname and the initial letter of his given name is
sufficient inscription of the name.
Whether a photograph is a mere mechanical reproduction or an original work
of art is a question to be determined by proof of the facts of originality, of
intellectual production, and of thought and conception on the part of the
author ; and when the copyright is disputed, it is important to establish
those facts.

This was a suit for an infringement of a copyright in a
photograph of one Oscar Wilde. The defence denied the constitutional right of Congress to confer rights of authorship on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the maker of a photograph; and also denied that the surname
of the proprietor with the initial letter of his given name prefixed to it (" N. Sarony ") inscribed on the photograph was a
compliance with the provisions of the act of June 18th, 1874,
18 Stat. 78. The essential facts appear in the opinion of the
court. The judgment below was for the plaintiff. The writ
of error was sued out by the defendant.

fr. David Calman for plaintiff in error.
ir.

Augustus

. Gurlitpr for defendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York.
Plaintiff is a lithographer and defendant a photographer,
with large business in those lines in the city of New York.
The suit was commenced by an action at law in which
Sarony was plaintiff and the lithographic company was defendant, the plaintiff charging the defendant with violating his
copyright in regard to a photograph, the title of which is
" Oscar Wilde No. 18." A jury being waived, the court made
a finding of facts on which a judgment in favor of the plaintiff was rendered for the sum of $600 for the plates and 85,000
copies sold and exposed to sale, and $10 for copies found in his
possession, as penalties under section 4965 of the Revised
Statutes.
Among the findings of fact made by the court the following
presents the principal question raised by the assignment of
errors in the case:
" 3. That the plaintiff about the month of January, 1882,
under an agreement with Oscar Wilde, became and was the
author, inventor, designer, and proprietor of the photograph in
suit, the title of which is 'Oscar Wilde No. 18,' being the
number used to designate this particular photograph and of
the negative thereof; that the same is a useful, new, harmnonious, characteristic, and graceful picture, and that said plaintiff made the same at his place of business in said city of New
York, and within the United States, entirely from his own
AIR. JUSTICE MILLER

LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Opinion of the Court.

original mental conception, to which he gave visible form by
posing the said Oscar Wilde in front of the camera, selecting
and arranging tle costume, draperies, and other various accessories in said photograph, arranging the subject so as to present
graceful outlines, arranging and disposing the light and shade,
suggesting and evoking the desired expression, and from such
disposition, arrangement, or representation, made entirely by
the plaintiff, he produced the picture in suit, Exhibit A, April
14th, 1882, and that the terms ' author,' 'inventor,' and ' designer,' as used in the art of photography and in the complaint,
mean the person who so produced the photograph."
Other findings leave no doubt that plaifntiff had taken all
the steps required by the act of Congress to obtain copyright
of this photograph, and section 4952 names photographs among
other things for which the author, inventor, or designer may
obtain copyright, which is to secure him the sole privilege of
reprinting, publishing, copying and vending the saine. That
defendant is liable under that section and section 4965 there
can be no question, if those sections are valid as they relate to
photographs.
Accordingly, the two assignments of error in this court by
plaintiff in error, are:
1. That the court below decided that Congress had and has
the constitutional right to protect photographs and negatives
thereof by copyright.
The second assignment related to the sufficiency of the words
Copyright, 1882, by N. Sarony," in the photographs, as a
notice of the copyright of Napoleon Sarony under the act of
Congress on that subject.
With regard to this latter question, it is enough to say, that
the object of the statute is to give notice of the copyright to
the public, by placing upon each copy, in some visible shape,
the name of the author, the existence of the claim of exclusive
right, and the date at which this right was obtained.
This notice is sufficiently given by the words "Copyright,
1882, by N. Sarony," found on each copy of the photograph.
It clearly shows that a copyright is asserted, the date of which
is 1882, and if the name Sarony alone was used, it would be a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of tho Court.

sufficient designation of the author until it is shown that there
is some other Sarony.
When, in addition to this, the initial letter of the christian
name Napoleon is also given, the notice is complete.
The constitutional question is not free from difficulty.
The eighth section of the first article of the Constitution is
the great repository of the powers of Congress, and by the
eighth clause of that section Congress is authorized:
"To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing, for limited times to authors and inventors, the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries."

The argument here is, that a photograph is not a writing nor
the production of an author. Under the acts of Congress designed to give effect to this section, the persons who are to be
benefited are divided into two classes, authors and inventors.
The monopoly which is granted to the former is called a copyright, that given to the latter, letters patent, or, in the familiar
language of the present day, pclent rigid.
We have, then, copyright and patent right, and it is the first
of these under which plaintiff asserts a claim for relief.
It is insisted in argument, that a photograph being a reproduction on paper of the exact features of some natural object
or of some person, is not a writing of which the producer is
the author.
Section 4952 of the Revised Statutes places photographs in
the same class as things which may be copyrighted with
"books, maps, charts, dramatic or musical compositions, engravings, cuts, prints, paintings, drawings, statues, statuary,
and models or designs intended to be perfected as works of the
fine arts." " According to the practice of legislation in England and America," says Judge Bouvier, 2 Law Dictionary,
363, "the copyright is confined to the exclusive right secured
to the author or proprietor of a writing or drawing which may
be multiplied by the arts of printing in any of its branches."
The first Congress of the United States, sitting immediately
after the formation of the Constitution, enacted that the
"author or authors of any map, chart, hook or books, being a

LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Opinion of the Court.

citizen or resident of the United States, shall have the sole
right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing and vending the same for the period of fourteen years from the recording of the title thereof in the clerk's office, as afterwards
directed." 1 Stat. 124, 1.
This statute not only makes maps and charts subjects of
copyright, but mentions them before books in the order of
designation. The second section of an act to amend this act,
approved April 29, 1802, 2 Stat. 171, enacts that from the first
day of January thereafter, he who shall invent and design,
engrave, etch or work, or from his own works shall cause to be
designed and engraved, etched or worked, any historical or
other print or prints shall have the same exclusive right for the
term of fourteen years from recording the title thereof as prescribed by law.
By the first section of the act of February 3d, 1831, 4 Stat.
436, entitled an act to amend the several acts respecting copyright, musical compositions and cuts, in connection with prints
and engravings, are added, and the period of protection is extended to twenty-eight years. The caption or title of this act
uses the word copyright for the first time in the legislation of
Congress.
The construction placed upon the Constitution by the first
act of 1790, and the act of 1802, by the men who were contemporary with its formation, many of whom were members
of the convention which framed it, is of itself entitled to very
great weight, and when it is remembered that the rights thus
established have not been disputed during a period of nearly a
century, it is almost conclusive.
Unless, therefore, photographs can be distinguished in the
classification on this point from the maps, charts, designs, engravings, etchings, cuts, and other prints, it is difficult to see
why Congress cannot make them the subject of copyright as
well as the others.
These statutes certainly answer the objection that books only,
or writing in the limited sense of a book and its author, are
within the constitutional provision. Both these words are susceptible of a more enlarged definition than this. An author in

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

that sense is "he to whom anything owes its origin; originator;
maker; one who completes a work of science or literature."
Worcester. So, also, no one would how claim that the word
writing in this clause of the Constitution, though the only word
used as to subjects in regard to which authors are to be secured,
is limited to the actual script of the author, and excludes books
and all other printed matter. By writings in that clause is
meant the literary productions of those authors, and Congress
very properly has declared these to include all forms of writing,
printing, engraving, etching, &c., by which the ideas in the
mind of the author are given visible expression. The only
reason why photographs were not included in the extended list
in the act of 180'2 is probably that they did not exist, as photography as an art was then unknown, and the scientific principle
on which it rests, and the chemicals and machinery by which
it is operated, have all been discovered long since that statute
was enacted.
Nor is it to be supposed that the framers of the Constitution
did not understand the nature of copyright and the objects to
which it was commonly applied, for copyright, as the exclusive
right of a man to the production of his own genius or intellect,
existed in England at that time, and the contest in the English
courts, finally decided by a very close vote in the House of
Lords, whether the statute of 8 Anne, chap. 19, which authorized copyright for a limited time, was a restraint to that extent on the common law or not, was then recent. It had attracted much attention, as the judgment of the King's Bench,
delivered by Lord Mansfield, holding it was not such a restraint,
in Miller v. 1hylor, 4 Burrows, 2303, decided in 1769, was
overruled on appeal in the House of Lords in 1774. Ibid.
2408. In this and other cases the whole question of the exclusive right to literary and intellectual productions had been
freely discussed.
We entertain no doubt that the Constitution is broad enough
to cover an act authorizing copyright of photographs, so far as
they are representatives of original intellectual conceptions of
the author.
But it is said that an engraving, a painting, a print, does em-

LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Opinion of the Court.

body the intellectual conception of its author, in which there
is novelty, invention, originality, and therefore comes within
the purpose of the Constitution in securing its exclusive use or
sale to its author, while the photograph is the mere mechanical
reproduction of the physical features or outlines of some object
animate or inanimate, and involves no originality of thought or
any novelty in the intellectual operation connected with its visible reproduction in shape of a picture. That while the effect
of light on the prepared plate may have been a discovery in the
production of these pictures, and patents could properly be
obtained for the combination of the chemicals, for their application to the paper or other surface, for all the machinery by
which the light reflected from the object was thrown on the
prepared plate, and for all the improvements in this machinery,
and in the materials, the remainder of the process is merely
mechanical, with no place for novelty, invention or originality.
It is simply the manual operation, by the use of these instruments and preparations, of transferring to the plate the visible
representation of some existing object, the accuracy of this
representation being its highest merit.
This may be true in regard to the ordinary production of a
photograph, and, further, that in such case a copyright is no
protection. On the question as thus stated we decide nothing.
In regard, however, to the kindred subject of patents for
invention, they cannot by law be issued to the inventor until
the novelty, the utility, and the actual discovery or invention
by the claimant have been established by proof before the
Commissioner of Patents; and when he has secured such a
patent, and undertakes to obtain redress for a violation of his
right in a court of law, the question of invention, of novelty, of
originality, is always open to examination.
Our copyright
system has no such provision for previous examination by a
proper tribunal as to the originality of the book, map, or other
matter offered for copyright. A deposit of two copies of the
article or work with the Librarian of Congress, with the name
of the author and its title page, is all that is necessary to secure
a copyright. It is, therefore, much more important that when
the supposed author sues for a violation of his copyright, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

existence of those facts of originality, of intellectual production,
of thought, and conception on the part of the author should be
proved, than in the case of a patent right.
In the case before us we think this has been done.
The third finding of facts says, in regard to the photograph
in question, that it is a "useful, new, harmonious, characteristic,
and graceful picture, and that plaintiff made the same
entirely from his own original mental conception, to which he
gave visible form by posing the said Oscar Wilde in front of
the camera, selecting and arranging the costume, draperies, and
other various accessories in said photograph, arranging the subject so as to present graceful outlines, arranging and disposing
the light and shade, suggesting and evoking the desired expression, and from such disposition, arrangement, or representation,
made entirely by plaintiff, he produced the picture in suit."
These findings, we think, show this photograph to be an
original work of art, the product of plaintiff's intellectual
invention, of which plaintiff is the author, and of a class of
inventions for which the Constitution intended that Congress
should secure to him the exclusive right to use, publish and sell,
as it has done by section 4952 of the Revised Statutes.
The question here presented is one of first impression under
our Constitution, but an instructive case of the same class is
that of Nottage v. Jackson, 11 Q. B. D. 627, decided in that
court on appeal, August, 1883.
The first section of the act of 25 and 26 Victoria, chap. 68,
authorizes the auithor of a photograph, upon making registry
of it under the copyright act of 1882, to have a monopoly of
its reproduction and multiplication during the life of the
author.
The plaintiffs in that case described themselves as the authors
of the photograph which was pirated, in the registration of it.
It appeared that they had arranged with the captain of the
Australian cricketers to take a photograph of the whole team
in a group; and they sent one of the artists in their employ
from London to some country town to do it.
The question in the case was whether the plaintiffs, who
owned the establishment in London, where the photographs

LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Opinion of the Court.

were made from the negative and were sold, and who had the
negative taken by one of their men, were the authors, or the
man who, for their benefit, took the negative. It was held
that the latter was the author, and the action failed, because
plaintiffs had described themselves as authors.
Brett, A . R., said, in regard to who was the author: " The
nearest I can come to, is that it is the person who effectively is
as near as he can be, the cause of the picture which is produced,
that is, the person who has superintended the arrangement, who
has actually formed the picture by putting the persons in
position, and arranging the place where the people are to bethe man who is the effective cause of that."
Lord Justice Cotton said: "In my opinion, 'author' in
volves originating, making, producing, as the inventive or
master mind, the thing which is to be protected, whether it be
a drawing, or a painting, or a photograph;" and Lord Justice
Bowen says that photography is to be treated for the purposes
of the act as an art, and the author is the man who really
represents, creates, or gives effect to the idea, fancy, or
imagination.
The appeal of plaintiffs from the original judgment against
them was accordingly dismissed.
These views of the nature of authorship and of origin.ality,
intellectual creation, and right to protection confirm what we
have already said.
Tlejudment of the Circuit Court is accordingly affirmed.

