THORWEGAN v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

THORWEGAN v. KING.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIHE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted April 15th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Court and Tury-Deceit.
Where the complaint in an action on the case for deceit by false representations whereby a party was induced to enter into a contract, charged a positive misrepresentation of an existing fact, and all the evidence intended to
establish fraud was directed to the proof of that specific misrepresentation,
it was error in the presiding judge not to confine his instructions to the
point in issue, and when requested by the jury for instruction as to the
effect of withholding information concerning the subject of the contract,
not to instruct them that there was no evidence in the case which authorized their request for instructions on that point.

.lr.

Given Campbell for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. James Carr for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law brought by the defendant in error
to recover damages for an alleged deceit. The cause of action,
as set out, was substantially as follows: That Thorwegan, the
defendant below, was the owner of a steamboat, called the
Grand Republic; that, on or about October 1st, 1876, knowing
the boat to be heavily encumbered with liens, claims, and debts
to the amount of about $75,000, with a view and design to
injure, cheat, and defraud the plaintiff, he falsely and fraudulently represented to the plaintiff that the boat was substantially free from all liens, claims, debts, and liability, except to a
small amount, which he, the defendant, would forthwith pay
off and cause to be discharged, as a preliminary to merging
the title and ownership of said boat in a corporation to be
organized by the defendant to receive such title and ownership,
and to issue stock therein, representing the full value of said
boat, free and clear of all encumbrances, debts, liens, and liabilities then existing, and that if plaintiff would advance to the
defendant, at that time, $12,000, he should become interested

OCTOBER TERM, 18s3.
Opinion of the Court.

in said boat, and that the defendant would forthwith organize
such corporation, and convey to it the title to said boat, free of
all encumbrance and liability, and issue to the plaintiff one
hundred and twenty-five shares of stock therein, representing
one-eighth of the ownership of the boat, free of all encumbrance, and one-eighth of the capital stock of the corporation;
that the plaintiff, relying on said representations and believing
them to be true, and especially that the boat was at that time
substantially free and clear of all debts, encumbrance, and
liability, and that it would be wholly free and clear of the
same when merged in and the title and ownership transferred
to the corporation, did, on or about October 1st, 1876, advance
to the defendant the said sum of $12,000 for the said interest
in said boat and the stock of the corporation; that afterwards,
about October 6th, 1876, the defendant caused said corporation
to be organized under the name of the Grand Republic Transportation Company, with a capital stock of $100,000, in shares
of $100 each, and conveyed to it the title to the said boat, but
the same was at that time subject to encumbrances and liabilities, as aforesaid, to the amount of $75,000, and of the said
capital stock caused to be issued to the plaintiff one hundred
and twenty-five shares, being one-eighth of the whole number;
that, in consequence of said enemnbranees, said stock was, and
continued to be, wholly without value, and thereby the said
sum paid for the same was wholly lost to the plaintiff.
The defendant answered, denying all charges of fraud and
misrepresentation, and pleading in bar of the action his subsequent discharge in bankruptcy. To this the plaintiff replied
the fraud alleged in the complaint.
It is manifest that the case of the plaintiff below, as stated
in the pleadings, turned upon the questions whether the defendant made the alleged representation as to the liabilities of
the boat, existing at the time of the advance of money, made
by the plaintiff, whether such representations, if made, were
false and fraudulent, and whether the plaintiff acted on the
faith of their truth. Everything else charged in the complaint
-that the defendant would pay off the encumbrances and liabilities before transferring the boat to the corporation, and

THORWEGAN v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

would convey to it a title free and clear of all liability, on
account of any existing debt-was promissory in its nature,
related to the future, depended on contract merely, and could
not be, of itself, the foundation of an action for deceit. At
most, it would be but a warranty of the title against encumnbrances and liability for debts, for breach of which an action
on the agreement would accrue.
The only evidence adduced in support of the averments as to
the representations made, and alleged to be false and fraudulent,
was the testimony of the plaintiff himself as to the circumstances of the transaction.
From this, it appeared that the entire amount of $12,000
was not advanced in one sum, but in two. at different times.
As to the first, of $5,000, it was clear, beyond dispute, that it
was made before the transaction relating to the sale of the
interest in the boat, and not even in contemplation of it, but as
a loan, to meet an immediate necessity of the defendant, and
without ihquiry or security; although it was included in the
verdict, the Circuit Court declined to enter a judgment for the
full amount, and required the plaintiff to enter a remiltilur of
that sum, as the alternative of a new trial, and it was complied
with.
The second advance of $7,000, it appears, was made a few
days afterwards, and in pursuance of negotiations for a sale by
the defendant to the plaintiff of an interest in the boat, to be
consummated by the transfer to the proposed corporation and
the issue of its stock.
It is perfectly clear, from the testimony of the plaintiff himself, that, at the time of the second advance of the sum of
$7,000, he was informed and well knew that the boat was not
free from encumbrances and liabilities. On the contrary, he
himself says, that he made the advance to enable the defendant to pay debts then existing. I-fe testified that Thorwegan
said, "if he could get that much money it would pay out the
debt and would have her clear of all debts; and that if he
didn't get the money the boat would be tied up before he left
here, and he wouldn't be able to turn a wheel." This is the
strongest statement made by the plaintiff as to any representa-

OCTOBER TERM, 188.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the defendant in reference to the amount of the boat's
existing indebtedness. In the same connection, the witness
stated, that nothing was said about the amount of the indebtedness. On cross-examination, the following questions and
answers sum up the transaction:
"169 int. As I understand, you testify in your examination
in chief that Thorwegan promised that he would pay off the
debts due by the boat and all the demands against her?
"A. Yes, sir.
"170 int. And you relied on that promise?
"A. Yes, sir.
"171 int. And you let him have your money?
"A. Yes, sir.
"172 int. That's the way of it?
"A. Yes, sir.
"173 int. You didn't care about an interest in this boat particularly, but you wanted to help Thorwegan more than anything else; that was your motive?
"A. That was the motive. I saw he was in trouble, as he
stated to me."
On re-examination, the following question and answer appear:
"179 int. At that time, in October, 1876, you placed full
reliance on the representations that the boat was free and clear
of all debts, didn't you?
"A. I did: that she was turned over (to) me clear of all
debts due and demands up to that date. It was not on the 1st
of October; the boat was to be turned over to me when she
was at the wharf ready for receiving cargo. That was the understanding, and the captain will state that fact himself."
At the time of the transaction the boat was undergoing repairs. When these were finished the corporation was organized
as proposed, and the boat transferred to it; but, as appeared
from the testimony of the clerk, introduced as a witness on the
part of the plaintiff, with an unpaid indebtedness at that time
of $68,000, of which about $10,000 were liens upon the boat,
the remainder being represented by notes, &c., on building account. The boat was worth from $160,000 to $175,000, in his

TIJORWEGAN v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion, at that time. She was lost by fire in September, 1877.
There was insurance on her, however, only for $50,250, which
went to pay creditors.
On the part of the defendant, a writing obligatory was introduced as evidence, signed and sealed by the defendant,
reciting the agreement with the plaintiff of October, 1876,
for a sale of one-eighth interest in the boat, represented by
one-eighth of the stock of the corporation, and containing
a covenant to hold the plaintiff harmless from all claims, encumbrances, and liabilities existing on said steamer at that
date, and agreeing to pay all claims and encumbrances existing
on said boat on that day, as well as all maritime and other
liens, so that no part thereof as against him should be chargeable to or paid by the new company, a copy of which was set
forth in the original petition of the plaintiff.
The defendant was called on his own behalf, and denied
making any representations as to the indebtedness of the boat
at the time of the sale.
There was evidence, taking up much space in the record,
consisting of accounts showing receipts and disbursements on
account of the boat for sixteen trips, most of them made after
the sale to King, and of the examination of the clerk in reference thereto, which, in our opinion, ought not to have been
admitted. It was irrelevant, and tended to confuse and mislead
the jury to the prejudice of the defendant by suggesting questions of good faith as to the management of the boat, after the
transaction in question, which were not part of the issue, and
which threw no light upon it.
In this state of the evidence, the defendant requested, among
others, the following instruction to be given to the jury:
"The jury are instructed that unless the evidence clearly
shows that defendant, with intent to defraud the plaintiff,
falsely represented to him some material facts alleged in the
petition, and relied on by the plaintiff, whereby plaintiff, to his
damage, was induced to entef into the contract described in the
petition, then they must find for the defendant."
This the court refused to give, and to this refusal exception
was duly taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The proposition contained in the request is a correct statement of the law, and strictly applicable to the case. The defendant was entitled to have it given to the jury, if not in the
precise form asked, at least in substance. It is not contested
in argument as unsound; but the refusal to give it is met by
the claim that it was given, substantially as prayed, in the
charge of the court. This is set out in full in the bill of exceptions, and it becomes necessary, therefore, to examine it, to
ascertain whether it properly covers the point of the instruction
asked for and refused.
That examination satisfies us that it does not; but that, on
the contrary, it contains directions to the jury, inconsistent with
the instruction requested. Among other things, the court in its
charge said :
"The complaint is that by fraudulent and false statements,
a suppression of the truth on the part of the defendant, the deception was practised upon the plaintiff."
And: "The law will not permit any one to make fraudulent
representation, and thus obtain from the party some valuable
thing, money or otherwise. If any one commits a fraud of that
kind, and thereby another loses his money, having trusted to
what was said to him, why the individual who does it is still
responsible to the party thus defrauded. And in this connection, gentlemen, you will view the whole case, not only what
the party said, but if you shall come to the conclusion he left
things unsaid that he ought to have said, that is, that there
was a suppression of truth when it was demanded from him, or
from other circumstances of the case, he ought to have disclosed the facts, that is just as bad as asserting a fact which
does not exist, and in relation to that, you will have to view it
with the acts of the other party also."
After the jury had retired they requested further instructions,
as follows: "The jury desire to be instructed whether the withholding of the true financial condition of the boat constitutes a
fraud? " And, in answer, the court said: "If the disclosing of
it, as I have told you before, became a duty-that is, if the
withholding was intentional for the purpose of accomplishing
a fraud upon the individual-and it was necessary for it to be

THORWEGAN v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.

disclosed, then such withholding would be a fraud. But if the
individual advanced the money without any question, or any
question concerning the financial condition of the boat, or if he
took other guaranties, so as to secure himself against contingencies, then it might not be necessary. I can't answer the
question by saying yea or nay, for the very question depends
on the circumstances of the case. For instance, I am talking
to an individual designing to accomplish an object. If I find
that individual is desirous of obtaining certain information for
the purpose of either denying or granting the request I make,
and I withhold the information, that is a fraud, provided I do it
with the intention of inducing him to do a thing that he would
not otherwise do. That is a fraud or deceit, as the law calls it.
. . .If you should come to the conclusion that it became
necessary for this individual to know the financial condition of
the boat, and it was withheld by the other party intentionally,
for the purpose of misleading him, then you should solve this
question as you think the testimony justifies."
This charge assumes that the plaintiff's case was based upon
a fraudulent suppression of material facts, knowledge of which
the defendant was under some legal duty to communicate,
and that there was evidence before the jury tending to prove
the allegation. The assumption is wrong in both its parts. No
such averment is made in the pleadings, and there was nothing
in the evidence tending to prove it. The whole case, as we
have heretofore stated, as exhibited in the petition or complaint,
rested upon an alleged positive misrepresentation of an existing
fact; and all the evidence intended to establish the fraud
charged was directed to the proof of that actual misrepresentation. There was no suggestion of any such relation between
the parties, or of anything in the circumstances of the transaction, that imposed upon the defendant the legal obligation of
making any disclosures, in respect to which he failed to speak.
The whole charge was, that having undertaken to make a statement of a particular condition of facts, he had done so falsely
and fraudulently.
The court therefore should have confined its instructions to
the jury, to the point really involved in the issue, and, omitting

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

what was said in respect to fraudulent suppressions, informed
them, that there was no evidence in the case that authorized
their request for further instructions, upon the point involved
in their inquiry.
It was error, therefore, to refuse to give the instruction asked
for by the defendant, as set out above.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to grant a new trial.

CARROLL COUNTY v. SMITH.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued April 27th, 1884.-Decided Alay 5th, 1881.

Municipal Bonds-Construetion of Statutes-Estoppel-Confliet of LawState Courts.
A recital in a bond issued by a municipal corporation in payment of a subscription to capital stock in a railway company, that it is authorized by a statute
referred to by title and date, does not estop the municipality in a suit on
the bond from setting up that the issue was not authorized by vote of twothirds of the voters of the corporation, as required by the Constitution of
the State.
A provision in the Constitution of Mississippi, that the legislature shall not
authorize a county to lend its aid to a corporation unless two-thirds of the
qualified voters shall assent thereto at an election to be held therein, does
not require an assenting vote of two-thirds of the whole number enrolled as
qualified to vote, but only two-thirds of those actually voting at the election
held for the purpose. fHawkins v. Carroll Co., 50 Miss. 735, disregarded,
and St. Joseph's Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644, and County of Cass v.
Johnston, 95 U. S. 360, followed.
The issuing of a temporary injunction, which was afterwards made permanent,
by a State court, restraining municipal officers from issuing municipal bonds,
does not estop a bona fide holder for value, who was no party to the suit,
from maintaining title to such bonds issued after the temporary injunction.
The decision of the highest court of a State, construing the Constitution of the
State, is not binding upon this court as affecting the rights of citizens of
other States in litigation here, when it is in conflict with previous decisions
of this court, and wheu the rights which it affects here were acquired before
it was made.

