AMES v. KANSAS.
Syllabus.

AMES v. KANSAS ex rel. JOHNSTON, Attorney-General.
KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. KANSAS
ex rel. JOHNSTON, Attorney-General.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Argued March 7th, 10th, and 11th, 1884.-Decided April 21Bt, 1884.

ConstitutionalLaw-Quo Warranto-Removalof Causes-Statutes.
The remedy by information in the nature of quo warranto, though criminal in
form, is in effect a civil proceeding.
A statute abolishing the common-law proceeding by information in the nature
of quo warranto, and authorizing an action to be brought in cases in which
that remedy was applicable, makes the proceeding a civil action for the
enforcement of a civil right, subject to removal from State courts to the
courts of the United States when other circumstances permit.
Proceedings by a State against a corporation created under its own laws, in
the nature of quo warranto for the abandonment, relinquishment and
surrender of its powers to another corporation with which it has been consolidated under a law of the United States, and proceedings against the directors of said consolidated company for usurping the powers of such State
corporation are, when in the form of civil actions, suits arising under the
laws of the United States within the meaning of the acts regulating the removal of causes.
When a suit brought by a State in one of its own courts against a corporation
amenable to its own process, to try the right of the corporation to exercise
corporate powers within the territorial limits of the State, presents a case
arising under the laws of the United States, it may be removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States if the other jurisdictional conditions exist.
In view of the practical construction put upon the Constitution by Congress
and the courts in the statutes and decisions cited in the opinion, the Court
is unwilling to say that it is not within the power of Congress to grant to
inferior courts of the United States jurisdiction in cases where the Supreme
Court has been vested by the Constitution with original jurisdiction.
The judiciary act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, does not confer upon Circuit
Courts jurisdiction over causes in which the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court is made exclusive by , 687 Rev. Stat.
Suits cognizable in the courts of the United States on account of the nature of
the controversy, and which are not required to be brought originally in the
Supreme Court, may be brought in or removed to the Circuit Courts from
State courts without regard to the character of the parties. The reasoning
and language in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 397, concerning appellate
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, adopted and applied to the jurisdiction
of Circuit Courts over causes in which a State is a party, commenced in a
State court and removed to a Circuit Court.
voL. cx-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Each of these writs of error brought up for review an order
of the Circuit Court remanding a case to the State court from
which it had been removed, and the two cases were considered
together. The material facts were these:
The Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company
was incorporated by the Legislature of the Territory of Kansas
in 1855, to build a railroad from the west bank of the Missouri
River, in the town of Leavenworth, to or near Fort Riley, and
from thence to the western boundary of the Territory, which
was the east boundary 'of Utah on the summit of the Rocky
Mountains. 10 Stat. 283, c. 59, sec. 19. In 1857 this act was
amended so as to authorize the construction of a branch from
some favorable point on the main line to some point on the
southern boundary of the Territory, where an easy connection
could be made with a line of road extending, to the Gulf of
Mexico, and also of a branch to the northern boundary of the
Territory. The company was organized under these acts in
1857, and before January 1st, 1862, had located its line from
Leavenworth to Fort Riley, and had, to a large extent, secured
its right of way and depot grounds.
On the 1st of July, 1862, the first Pacific Railroad act was
passed by Congress, incorporating the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, and providing for government aid in the construetion of the several roads brought into the system, which was
then inaugurated to establish a railroad connection between
the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. 12 Stat. 489, c. 120. By sec.
9 of this act the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad
Company of Kansas was authorized to construct a railroad and
telegraph line from the Missouri River, at the mouth of the
Kansas River, on the south side thereof, so as to connect with
the Pacific Railroad of Missouri, to the point in the Territory
of Nebraska, then established as the eastern terminus of the
Union Pacific Road. Provision was made for government aid
to this company in all repects like that to the Union Pacific.
See. 16 is as follows:
"That at any time after the passage of this act all of the railroad companies named herein, and assenting hereto, or any two

AMES v. KANSAS.
Statement of Facts.

or more of them, are authorized to form themselves into one consolidated company ; notice of such consolidation, in writing, shall
be filed in the Department of the Interior, and such consolidated
company shall thereafter proceed to construct said railroad and
branches and telegraph line upon the terms and conditions
provided in this act."
The Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Company accepted
the provisions of this act, and was thereafter designated as the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division. By the
act of July 2d, 1864, c. 216, sec. 12, 13 Stat. 361, the company
was required to build its railroad from the mouth of the
Kansas by way of Leavenworth, or, if that was not deemed
the best route, to build a branch from Leavenworth to the
main stein at or near Lawrence. This act also made provision,
by see. 16, for the consolidation of any two or more corporations embraced in the system, upon such terms and conditions
as they might agree upon not incompatible with the laws of
the States in which the roads of the companies might be. On
the 3d of July, 1866, c. 169, 14 Stat. 80, the company was permitted to make its connection with the Union Pacific at any
point not more than fifty miles westerly from the meridian of
Denver. By another act passed March 3d, 1869, c. 324, 15
Stat. 324, the company was authorized to extend its road to
Denver, in the Territory of Colorado, and from there to make
its connection with the Union Pacific at Cheyenne, over the
road of the Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company,,
a Colorado corporation, power being given to contract with
the last named company for that purpose. On the same day
a joint resolution was passed by Congress, No. 23, 15 Stat. 348,
authorizing the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern
Division, by a resolution of its directors, filed in the office of
the Secretary of the Interior, to change its name to the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company.
Under this authority the road was built from its junction
with the Missouri Pacific Railroad in Kansas City, Missouri,
through Fort Riley, in Kansas, to Denver, in Colorado, and
government aid was furnished it under the acts of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

From Denver it formed its connection with the Union Pacific
road at Cheyenne, over the road of the Denver Pacific Company. It also built a branch from Leavenworth to Lawrence,
but the road from Fort Riley to the original eastern terminus
of the Union Pacific was never constructed.
On the 24th of January, 1880, the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, and the
Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company, acting under
the authority of sec. 16 of the Pacific Railroad act of July 1st,
1862, and sec. 16 of the act of July 2d, 1864, entered into an
agreement for the consolidation of the three corporations into
one, by the name of the Union Pacific Railway Company, and
from that time the road of the Kansas Pacific Company, including that portion which lies in Kansas, has been operated
and managed as the Kansas Division of the Union Pacific
Railway Company.
At the first session of the legislature of Kansas after this
consolidation was effected, a resolution was passed directing
the Attorney-General to inquire into its legality, and to report
whether in his opinion the consolidated company was amenable
to the laws of the State; whether the Union Pacific Railroad
Company had usurped or was exercising rights and franchises
within the State not authorized by law, or had in any manner
failed to comply with or had violated any of the laws of the
State; whether the Kansas Pacific Company was in law an
existing corporation of the State; and whether the State had
lost jurisdiction over the property of the corporation. At the
next session another resolution was passed, directing the Attorney-General to institute proper proceedings in the Supreme
Court of the State, "in the nature of quo wcrranto,against the
Kansas Pacific Railway Company for an abandonment, relinquishment, and surrender of its powers as a corporation to
such consolidated company, and also to institute like proceedings against the consolidated company, the Union Pacific Railway Company, for usurping, seizing, holding, possessing, and
using the franchise and privileges, powers and immunities of
the Kansas Pacific Railway Company in the State of Kansas."
Under these instructions the present suits were brought in

AMES v. KANSAS.
Statement of Facts.
the Supreme Court of the State. The petition against the
Kansas Pacific Company set forth the acts of the Territorial
legislature of Kansas incorporating the company and extending its powers, passed in 1855 and 1857; the organization of
the company under its charter; the acts of Congress, passed
July 1st, 1862, and July 2d, 1864, granting aid to the company;
and the construction of the road. It then averred
That on the 24th of January, 1880, the said Kansas Pacific
Railway Company wrongfully and unlawfully attempted to consolidate its said corporation with the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, a corporation chartered under the said acts of Congress
of 1862 and 1864, whose line runs from the Missouri River at or
near Omaha, Nebraska, to Ogden, in Utah Territory, and the
Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company, whose line begins at the city of Denver, in the State of Colorado, and runs in
a westward direction to a junction with the Union Pacific Railroad Company, at a place called Cheyenne, in the Territory of
Wyoming. And the said Kansas Pacific Railway Company unlawfully and wrongfully attempted to confer upon the said consolidated company all of its franchises, immunities, liberties and
privileges granted by virtue of its charter aforesaid, and to merge
the same into a pretended corporation, not created by the laws of
the TerritQry or State of Kansas, nor owing any duty to the Territory or State of Kansas, but a pretended corporation, created, if
at all, by acts of Congress, and amenable only to federal control,
and subject only, as to its rights and the causes of action which
might thereafter exist against it, to the jurisdiction of the federal
tribunals. And the said Attorney-General gives the court further to understand and be informed, that the said Kansas Pacific
Railway Company unlawfully and wrongfully entered into articles of consolidation with said Union Pacific Railroad Company
and the said Denver Pacific Railroad and Telegraph Company,
which were expressly in violation of its charter, and in conflict
with the duties and obligations owing by it to the State of Kansas under the provisions and terms of its charter aforesaid ; and
further, that said articles were in conflict with the laws of the
State of Kansas respecting railroad corporations and the right of
railroad companies to consolidate, and were not compatible with
."

such laws."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

The bill then set forth a copy of the articles of consolidation,
from which it appeared that the sole and only authority relied
on for the consolidation was that contained in the several acts
of Congress, and that the intent of the parties was to organize
the company thereby formed "under the said acts of Congress,
and to make the said acts of Congress the charter or constituent acts of this company, as fully as if the same were incorporated herein at large." The contract then appointed directors
of the new company, and the place for holding the annual
meeting of stockholders, until otherwise ordered, was fixed at
the company's office in the city of New York. The then existing by-laws of the Union Pacific Railroad Company were
also provisionally adopted and made applicable to the new
company.
The bill then averred that it was the duty of the Kansas
Pacific Company to make certain reports to the Secretary of
State of Kansas, which it had wholly failed to do, and that it
held "its general offices and all accounts of its operations, at
the general offices of said pretended consolidated company, at
the city of Omaha, in the State of Nebraska, and alleges and
pretends that the said corporation, the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company, no longer owes any duty under its charter as aforesaid to the State of Kansas, but that it is controlled as to its
chartered obligations by the acts of Congress creating the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, and by the unlawful articles
of consolidation aforesaid." It then charged that the company
had violated the laws of the State by failing to keep its general offices for the transaction of business within the State, and
removing them to Omaha and placing "the same under the
absolute order, control and disposal of the said pretended conThen it alleged that the road of the
solidated company."
Kansas Pacific Company was run as the " Union Pacific
Railway Company, Kansas Division," and managed by the
new corporation; that "since the pretended consolidation
as aforesaid the said Kansas Pacific Company has wholly failed
and neglected to designate some person residing in each county
into which its said line of railroad runs, or in which its said
business is transacted, on whom all process and notices issued

AMES v. KANSAS.
Statement of Facts.

by any court of record, or justices of the peace of such county,
may or might be served," and that it had also failed from the
same time "to file a certificate of the appointment or designation of such person in the office of the clerk of the District
Court of the county in which such person resides."
The consolidation was afterwards attacked because the roads
were originally competing roads, and did not connect at the
State line so as to form a complete and continuous line of railway. The next allegation was that the Kansas charter was
forfeited by the diversion of the road "to the use of a foreign
corporation, outside of the jurisdiction of the State of Kansas,
and beyond the reach of hcr authorities, with the declared intent that it shall be operated, and used, and worked, not
according to the laws of Kansas, made or to be made to protect the rights of her people, but under and according to the
provisions of other laws, alleged to have been enacted by the
legislature of another government, for the regulation of another
railroad, lying in another State."
The prayer was that the
"Kansas Pacific Railway Company
be made to answer
to the State of Kansas by what warrant it claims to have, use,
and enjoy the liberties, privileges, and franchises aforesaid ; and
further, by what warrant it claims and has exercised the right to
put said railroad and its appurtenances into the possession and
under the control of the above mentioned foreign railroad company, and by what right it claims to maintain such foreign corporation in such possession, or in the enjoyment and exercise of
the franchises and privileges bestowed by the State of Kansas
exclusively on said Kansas Pacific Railway Company ; and that
the said respondent company be adjudged to have forfeited all its rights, liberties, and franchises, and to be ousted
from the same, and that the corporation be thereupon dissolved ;
and that it be further adjudged that the said franchises granted
to the defendant by the State have become relinquished, abandoned, and forfeited to the State of Kansas, and that the same be
resumed to the State, and that the State take posses'sion of the
said railroad, with all its appurtenances and fixtures, as public
property, and make such disposition thereof as may be thought

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

necessary to secure the rights of the State, saving the just interests of creditors and other third parties guiltless of the frauds,
wrongs, and injuries herein charged against the corporation and
the members thereof."

The answer of the defendant, which, for the purposes of the
suit, appeared in the name of the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, admitted the consolidation and set up the authority for
that purpose under the laws of Congress. All violations of the
laws of Kansas were denied, and the position was distinctly
assumed that the Kansas Pacific Company became, under the
legislation of Congress, a corporation of the United States, and
as such had full authority to enter into the agreement of consolidation which is complained of.
The petition against the individuals who, as was alleged,
called themselves the board of directors of the Union Pacific
Railway Company, charged them with using, without warrant,
charter, or grant, the liberties, privileges, and franchises of
being a railroad company to use and operate the railroad of
the Kansas Pacific Company, and averred that that road was
built under the Kansas charter of the Leavenworth, Pawnee
and Western Company. The prayer was that they might be
made
"To answer to the State by what warrant they claim to have,
use, and enjoy the liberties, privileges, and franchises aforesaid ;
and that upon a due hearing hereof the said defendants and said
pretended railroad company be adjudged to have unlawfully and
wrongfully usurped and appropriated the rights, liberties, privileges, and franchises aforesaid, and to be wrongfully and unlawfully using, enjoying, and exercising the same, and that they be
ousted therefrom."
The answers of the defendants set up the legislation of Congress affecting the original Kansas corporation and the consolidation of that company with the Union Pacific and Denver
Pacific Companies under that authority. They asserted their
right and that of the Union Pacific Railway Company, whose
directors they were, to exercise within the State of Kansas all

AMES v. KANSAS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the powers, and to enjoy all the franchises and privileges, of
the old Kansas Pacific Company, and this by reason of the consolidation of that company, under the authority of Congress,
with the other two companies.
The directors were all citizens of States other than Kansas.
As soon as the answers were put in, petitions were filed by
the defendants in each case for the removal of the suit against
them respectively, to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas. The petition of the railroad conpany alleged as ground for removal, 1, that the suit was one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States;
and, 2. that the defendant was a corporation, other than a
banking association, organized under a law of the United
States, and that it had a defence arising under the laws of the
United States. That of the directors was also put on the
ground, 1, that the suit was one arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and, 2, that the directors were
sued as members of a corporation, organized under an act of
Congress, for an alleged liability of the corporation, and that
their defence arose under and by virtue of the laws of the
United States.
Each suit was duly docketed in the Circuit Court of the
United States, and, on motion of the State, remanded to the
Supreme Court of the State.
From these orders to remand the railway company and the
directors, respectively, took a writ of error to this court.
ilTr. John 1' -Dillonand )r.
error.

Wager Swayne for plaintiffs in

111). Clarence Seward, 3>r. IV. A. Johunston, AttorneyGeneral of the State of Kansas, and 1W>. W. IT Rowiington
for defendant in error, contended that the original jurisdiction
given by the Constitution to the Supreme Court in cases in
which a State shall be a party excluded a Circuit Court from
such jurisdiction. They supported the contention by an elaborate historical argument which cannot be condensed within
permissible limits. They also cited the following decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

in this court and by judges of this court in circuit. Chisholm
v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 425; Rhode Island v. -Jfassaehusetts,
12 Pet. 657, 720; Osborn v. United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 820;
Gittings v. Crawford, Taney's Dec. 1; Wisconsin v. _Duluth,
2 Dill. 406, 412; Olmstead's Case, Brightly, 25; Georgia v.
.lfadrazo, 1 Pet. 110, 124; lx parte Juan Madrazzo, 7 Pet.
627; Alabama v. Wollfe, 18 Fed. Rep. 836; Railroad v.
17arri's, 12 Wall. 65, 86; hlepburn v. ElLzey, 2 Cranch, 445;
New Orleans v. Winter, I Wheat. 91; Barney v. Baltimore,
6 Wall. 280, 287. Before the passage of the act of 1875,
Circuit Courts had no jurisdiction of a controversy between a
State and citizens thereof. Iowa hfomestead Company v.
Des Moines Navigation Company, 8 Fed. iRep. 97; Walsh v.
Jfemphis, 6 Fed. Rep. 797; Dormitzer v. Illinois Bridge
Company, 6 Fed. Rep. 217; Pa;fie Railroadv. kYetchun, 101
U. S. 289; Removal Causes, 100 U. S. 457; and the fact that
a State railway corporation had had similar corporate powers
conferred upon it by another State was not cause for removal,
and did not give jurisdiction to a Circuit Court in a suit brought
by the State in one of its own courts against such corporation.
Memphis & (/arleston Riailroad Comnpany v. Alabama, 107
U. S.581. An act of consolidation did not so destroy the
existence of the consolidated corporations as to withdraw them
as separate legal entities from the jurisdiction of the States by
which they were originally created. Tomlinson v. Branch, 15
Wall. 460; Johnson v. Philadelphia,Wilmington & Baltimore
Railroad Com)any, 9 Fed. Rep. 6, and note; hforne v. Boston,
18 Fed. Rep. 50; Graham v. Boston, Harford & Erie Railroad, 14 Fed. Rep. 753; Xluller v. Dows, 94 IU.S. 444, 447;
Central Railroad & Banking Company v. Georgia, 92 U. S.
665. As Circuit Courts had no jurisdiction of a cause to
which a State was a party, such a cause, if removed from a
State court to a Circuit Court, would be remanded by the
latter court even after it had been docketed. Den ex dem. the
State of New Jersey v. Babcock, 4 Wash. C. C. 344. This line
of decisions rests upon the Constitution, and that provision in
the Judiciary Act of 1789 which is codified in ยง 687 Rev. Stat.
that "The Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

all controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party,
except between a State and its citizens," and those codified in
ยง 711. Before the act of 1875, the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court in all civil cases in which a State was a party was exclusive and not to be meddled with by any inferior tribunal.
That practical interpretation put upon the Constitution by
legislation is in accordance with the interpretation put upon it
by its framers. The act of 1875, properly construed, does not
repeal these provisions of previous legislation. As to repeals
of jurisdictional statutes by implication, the counsel cited Pryse
v. Pryse, L. R. 15 Eq. 86; National Bank v. h[arrson,8 Fed.
Rep. 721 ; United States v. 2fooney, 11 Fed. Rep. 476; Venable
v. Richards, 105 U. S. 636.
MR. CuiE JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Ile stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The right of removal under section 640 of the Revised
Statutes, because the Kansas Pacific Railway Company was a
corporation organized under the laws of the United States, is
not insisted upon in this court, and the only questions presented
for our consideration are:
1. Whether the suits are of a civil nature at law or in equity,
arising under the laws of the United States; and,
2. Whether, if they are, they can be removed under the act
of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, inasmuch as they were
brought by a State to try the right of a corporation and its
directors to exercise corporate powers and franchises within
the territorial jurisdiction of the State.
Under the first of these questions it is claimed, in behalf of
the State, 1, that the suits are not of a civil nature, because
they are proceedings in, quo warranto ; and, 2, that they do
not arise under the laws of the United States.
In Kansas the writ of quo warranto, and the proceeding by
information in the nature of quo warranto,have been abolished,
and the remedies which were obtainable at common law in
those forms are had by civil action. Dassler's Comp. Laws,
sec. 4192; Code, sec. 652. Such an action may be brought in
the Supreme Court when "any person shall usurp, intrude

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

into, or unlawfully hold or exercise any public office, or shall
claim any franchise within this State, or any office in any corporation created by authority of this State," or "when any
association or number of persons shall act within this State as
a corporation without being legally incorporated," or when
any corporation do or admit [omit] acts which amount to a
surrender or a forfeiture of their rights as a corporation, or
when any corporation abuses its power, or exercises powers
not conferred by law. Id. sec. 4193; Code, see. 653.
By the Code of Civil Procedure, id. see. 3525; Code, sec. 4,
"An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice by
which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement or
protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or
the punishment of a public offence." Sec. 3527; Code, sec. 6:
"Actions are of two kinds, first, civil; second, criminal." Sec.
3528; Code, sec. 7: "A criminal action is one prosecuted by
the State as a party, against a person charged with a public
offence, for the punishment thereof." See. 3529; Code, sec. 8:
"Every other action is a civil action." See. 3531; Code, see.
10: "The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore
existing, are abolished; and in their place there shall be, hereafter, but one form of action, which shall be known as a civil
action."
The original common-law writ of quo wcarranto was a civil
writ, at the suit of the crown, and not a criminal prosecution.
Rex v. .arsden, 3 Burr. 1812, 1817. It was in the nature of a
writ of right by the king against one who usurped or claimed
franchises or liberties, to inquire by what right he claimed them
(Com. Dig. Quo Warranto A), and the first process was summons. Id. C. 2. This writ, however, fell into disuse in England
centuries ago, and its place was supplied by an information in
the nature of a quo wcarranto,which, in its origin, was "a criminal method of prosecution, as well to punish the usurper by a
fine for the usurpation of the franchise, as to oust him, or seize
it for the crown." 3 B1. Com. 263. Long before our revolution,
however, it lost its character as a criminal proceeding in everything except form, and was "applied to the mere purposes of

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

trying the civil right, seizing the franchise, or ousting the
wrongful possessor; the fine being nominal only." 3 131. Com.
supra; l ie Zing v. Francis,2 T. R. 484 ; Bac. Ab. Tit. Information D ; 2 Kyd on Corp. 439. And such, without any
special legislation to that effect, has always been its character
in many of the States of the Union. Commonwealth v. Browne,
1 S.& R. 385; People v. Richardon, 4 Cow. 102, note; State
v. _Iardie, 1 Iredell Law, 42, 48; State Bankc v. State, 1 Blackf.
267, 272; State v. Lingo, 26 Mo. 496, 498. In some of the
States, however, it has been treated as criminal in form, and
matters of pleading and jurisdiction governed accordingly.
Such is the rule in New York, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Arkansas, and Illinois, but in all these States it is used as a civil
remedy only. Attorney-General v. Utica Insurance Company,
2 Johns. Ch. 370, 377; P~eople v. Jones, 18 Wend. 601; State
v. JVest Wisconsin, Railway Company, 34 Wis. 197, 213; State
v. Ashley, 1 Ark. 279; State v. Roe, 2 Dutcher, 215, 217. This
being the condition of the old law, it seems to us clear that the
effect of legislation like that in Kansas, as to the mode of proceeding in quo warranto cases, is to relieve the old civil remedy
of the burden of the criminal form of proceeding with which
it had become encumbered, and to restore it to its original
position as a civil action for the enforcement of a civil right.
The right and the remedy are thus brought into harmony, and
parties are not driven to the necessity of using the form of a
criminal action to determine a civil right. This has been the
construction put upon similar laws in other States. State v.
]'Daniel,22 Ohio St. 354, 361 ; Central c& Georgetown Railroad Company v. Taylor, 5 Colorado, 40, 42 ; CommercialBank
of Rodney v. State, 4 Sm. & Marsh. 439, 490, 504. These
suits are therefore of a civil nature.
That the records present cases arising under the laws of the
United States we do not doubt. The attorney-general was
instructed by the legislature to institute proceedings against the
Kansas Pacific Company "for an abandonment, relinquishment and surrender of its powers and duties as a corporation
to the consolidated company," and against the consolidated
company "for usurping, seizing, holding, possessing, and using

OCTOBER TERM,

1883

Opinion of the Court.

the franchises and privileges, powers and immunities of the
The whole
Kansas Pacific Railway Company of Kansas."
purpose of the suits is to test the validity of the consolidation.
The charge is of an unlawful and wrongful consolidation, and
from the beginning to the end of the petition against the
Kansas Pacific Company there is not an allegation of default
that does not grow out of this single act. It is, indeed, alleged
that the company has not, since the consolidation, made its
proper reports, and has not appointed agents on whom process
can be served, and has established its general offices out of the
State, but no such averments are made as to the consolidated
company, and it is apparent that these specifications are relied
on only as incidents of the main ground of complaint.
That the validity of the consolidation, so far as the State is
concerned, rests alone on the authority conferred for that purpose by the acts of Congress is not denied. If the acts of Con.
gress confer the authority, the consolidation is valid; if not, it
is invalid. Clearly, therefore, the cases arise under these acts
of Congress, for, to use the language of Chief Justice Marshall
in Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 825, an act of Congress "is the first ingredient in the case-is its origin-is that
from which every other part arises." The right set up by
the company, and by the directors as well, will be defeated by
one construction of these acts and sustained by the opposite construction. When this is so, it has never been doubted that a
case is presented which arises under the laws of the United
States. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 379 ; Gold Tasainqg
& Water Company v. _Keyes, 96 U. S. 201; Ptailroad Conpany
v. fississippi, 102 U. S. 140.
We come now to the question whether a suit brought by a
State in one of its own courts, against a corporation amenable
to its own process, to try the right of the corporation to exercise corporate powers within the territorial limits of the State,
can be removed to the Circuit Court of the United States,
under the act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, if the suit presents a
case arising under the laws of the United States. The language
of the act is "any suit of a civil nature . . brought in any
State court, . . arising under the Constitution or laws of

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of tho Court.

the United States," may be removed by either party. This is
broad enough to cover such a case as this, unless the language
is limited in its operation by some other law, or by the Constitution. The statute itself makes no exception of suits to
which a State is a party.
Art. 3, see. 1 of the Constitution provides, that "the judicial
power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from
time to time ordain and establish."
Sec. 2. "The judicial
power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising
under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority;
to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls,
to controversies between two or more States;
between a State and citizens of another State, . . and between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens, or subjects. . . In all cases affecting ambassadors, other
public ministers, and consuls, and those in which a State
shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme
Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact,
with such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall make."
Within six months after the inauguration of the government
under the Constitution, the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat.
73, was passed. The bill was drawn by Mr. Ellsworth, a
prominent member of the convention that framed the Constitution, who took an active part in securing its adoption by the
people, and who was afterwards Chief Justice of this Court.
Sec. 13 was as follows: "That the Supreme Court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature
where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens; and except also between a State and citizens of other
States or aliens, in which latter case it shall have original but
not exclusive jurisdiction. And shall have exclusively all such
jurisdiction of suits or proceedings against ambassadors, or
other public ministers, or their domestics, or domestic servants,
as a court of law can have or exercise consistently with the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of nations; and original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction of all
suits brought by ambassadors, or other public ministers, or in
which a consul or vice-consul shall be a party." The same act
also, by section 9, gave the District Court jurisdiction exclusively
of the courts of the several States of suits against consuls or
vice-consuls, except for certain offences, and by section 25 conferred upon the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction for the
review, under some circumstances, of the final judgments and
decrees of the highest courts of the States in certain classes of
suits arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
It thus appears that the first Congress, in which were many
who had been leading and influential members of the convention, and who were familiar with the discussions that preceded
the adoption of the Constitution by the States and with the
objections urged against it, did not understand that the original jurisdiction vested in the Supreme Court was necessarily
exclusive. That jurisdiction included all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which
a State was a party. The evident purpose was to open and
keep open the highest court of the nation for the determination, in the first instance, of suits involving a State or a diplomatic or commercial representative of a foreign government.
So much was due to the rank and dignity of those for whom
the provision was made; but to compel a State to resort to this
one tribunal for the redress of all its grievances, or to deprive
an ambassador, public minister or consul of the -privilege of
suing in any court he chose having jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject matter of his action, would be, in many cases,
to convert what was intended as a favor into a burden.
Acting on this construction of the Constitution, Congress
took care to provide that no suit should be brought against an
ambassador or other public minister except in the Supreme
Court, but that he might sue in any court lie chose that was
open to him. As to consuls, the commercial representatives
of foreign governments, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
was made concurrent with the District Courts, and suits of a
civil nature could be brought against them in either tribunal.

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

With respect to States, it was provided that the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court should be exclusive in all controversies of a
civil nature where a State was a party, except between a State
and its citizens, and except, also, between a State and citizens
of other States or aliens, in which latter case its jurisdiction
should be original but not exclusive. Thus the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was made concurrent with any
other court to which jurisdiction might be given in suits between a State and citizens of other States or aliens. No jurisdiction was given in such cases to any other court of the United
States, and the practical effect of the enactment was, therefore,
to give the Supreme Court exclusive original jurisdiction in
suits against a State begun without its consent, and to allow
the State to sue for itself in any tribunal that could entertain
its case. In this way States, ambassadors, and public ministers were protected from the compulsory process of any court
other than one suited to their high positions, but were left free
to seek redress for their own grievances in any court that had
the requisite jurisdiction. No limits were set on their powers
of choice in this particular. This, of course, did not prevent a
State from allowing itself to be sued in its own courts or elsewhere in any way or to any extent it chose.
The Judiciary Act was passed on the 24th of September, 1789,
and at the April Term, 1793, of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Pennsylvania, an indictment was
found against Ravara, a consul from Genoa, for a misdemeanor
in sending anonymous and threatening letters to the British
minister and others with a view to extort money. Objection
was made to the jurisdiction for the reason that the exclusive
cognizance of the case belonged to the Supreme Court on account of the official character of the defendant. The court was
held by Wilson and Iredell, Justices of the Supreme Court,
and Peters, the District Judge. Mr. Justice Wilson, who had
been a member of the convention that framed the Constitution, was of opinion "that although the Constitution vests in
the Supreme Court an original jurisdiction, in cases like the
present, it does not preclude the legislature from exercising the
power of vesting a concurrent jurisdiction in such inferior
VOL. oxI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

courts as might by law be established." Mr. Justice Iredell
thought "that, for obvious reasons of public policy, the Constitution intended to vest an exclusive jurisdiction in the Supreme Court upon all questions relating to the public agents
of foreign nations. Besides, the context of the judiciary article of the Constitution seems fairly to justify the interpretation
that the word original means exclusive jurisdiction." The
district judge agreed in opinion with Mr. Justice Wilson, and
consequently, the jurisdiction was sustained. United States v.
Javara,2 Dall. 297.
On the 18th of February, 1793, just before the indictment
against Ravara in the Circuit Court, the case of Cliiqholm v.
Georgia,2 Dall. 419, was decided in the Supreme Court, holding that a State might be sued in that court by an individual
citizen of another State. The judgment was concurred in by
four of the five justices then composing the court, including
Mr. Justice Wilson, but Mr. Justice Iredell dissented. This
decision, as is well known, led to the adoption of the eleventh
article of amendment to the Constitution, which provides that
the judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend to a suit against a State by a citizen of another State,
or by a citizen or subject of a foreign State.
It is a fact of some significance, in this connection, that
although the decision in Chisholm's case attracted immediate
attention and caused great irritation in some of the States, that
in Ravara's case, which in effect held that the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was not necessarily exclusive,
seems to have provoked no special comment. The efforts of
the States before Congress assembled, and of Congress afterwards, were directed exclusively to obtaining "such amendments in the Constitution of the United States as will remove
any clause or articles of the said Constitution which can be
construed to imply or justify a decision that a State is compellable to answer in any suit by an individual or individuals
in any court of the United States." Resolve of the Legislature
of Mass. Sept. 27th, 1793.
In
arbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, decided in 1803, it
was held that Congress had no power to give the Supreme

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Court original jurisdiction in other cases than those described
in the Constitution, and Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the
opinion, used language, on paoe 175, which might, perhaps,
imply that such original jurisdiction as had been granted by
the Constitution was exclusive; but this was not necessary to
the determination of the cause, and the Chief Justice himself
afterwards, in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, referred
to many expressions in that opinion as dicta in which (p. 401),
"the court lays down a principle which is generally correct, in
terms much broader than the decision, and not only much
broader than the reasoning with which that decision is supported, but in some instances contradictory to its principle."
In concluding that branch of the case, he said, "the general
expressions in the case of Marbury v. Madison must be understood with the limitations which are given to them in this
opinion; limitations which, in no degree, affect the decision of
that case or the tenor of its reasoning'."
In Cokens v. Virginia,the question was whether the Supreme
Court had appellate jurisdiction for the review of the final
judgment of the highest court of a State in a suit between a
State and one of its own citizens arising under the laws of the
United States, and the language of the opinion in that case is
to be construed in connection with the general subject then
under consideration. The same is true of Osborn v. United
States Bank, 9 Wheat. 737, where the question was whether
the Circuit Courts of the United States had jurisdiction of suits
by and against the United States Bank. In United States v.
Ortega, 11 Wheat. 467, the question was for the first time
directly presented to this court whether our original jurisdiction
was necessarily exclusive, but it was not decided, because the
suit was found not to be one affecting a public minister. In
Davis v. Packard,7 Pet. 276, the Court of Errors of New York
had decided that the character of consul did not exempt Davis,
the plaintiff in error, from a suit in a State court; and in reversing a judgment to that effect this court said, speaking, in
1833, through Mr. Justice Thompson, all the other justices
concurring, that, "as an abstract question, it is difficult to
understand on what ground a State court can claim jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of civil suits against foreign consuls. By the Constitution the
judicial power of the United States extends to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls, &c. And
the Judiciary Act of 1789 gives to the District Courts of the
United States, exclusively of the courts of t/ee several States,
jurisdiction of all suits against consuls and vice-consuls, except
for certain offences mentioned in the act." In Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 397, Chief Justice Marshall said: "Foreign
consuls frequently assert, in our prize courts, the claims of their
fellow subjects. These suits are maintained by them as consuls.
The appellate power of this court has frequently been exercised
in such cases, and it has never been questioned. It would be
extremely mischievous to withhold its exercise. Yet the consul
is the party on the record."
Such having been the action of the courts of the United
States in construing this provision of the Constitution, the
question of the exclusiveness of the jurisdiction in cases affecting consuls was, in 1838, directly presented to Chief Justice
Taney on the circuit in the case of Gittings v. Crawford,
Taney's Decisions, 1, and, after reviewing all the cases in an
elaborate opinion, he says, p. 9: "The true rule in this case is,
I think, the rule which is constantly applied to ordinary acts
of legislation in which the grant of jurisdiction over a certain
subject matter to one court does not, of itself, imply that that
jurisdiction is to be exclusive. In the clause in question there
is nothing but mere affirmative words of grant, and none that
import a design to exclude the subordinate jurisdiction of other
courts of the United States on the same subject matter."
Afterwards, Mr. Justice Nelson, in the case of St. luke's
Hospital v. Barclay, 3 Blatch. 259, 265, in 1855, and in Grahan
v. Stucken, 4 Blatch. 50, in 1857, decided the same question in
the same way. In the course of his opinion in the last case, p.
52, he uses this language, pertinent to the particular phase of
the question which we are now considering: "Again, the
grant of original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court is the same
in the cases . . . 'in which a State shall be a party,' as in
the case of a consul. Those cases are controversies, 1, between
two or more States; 2, between a State and citizens of another

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

State; 3, between a State and foreign States; and 4, between
a State and citizens or subjects of foreign States, that is, aliens.
Nov, if the grant of original jurisdiction be exclusive in the
Supreme Court in the case of a consul, it is equally exclusive in
the four cases above enumerated ; for the grant is in the same
clause and in the same terms. And yet in the 13th section of
the Judiciary Act, already referred to, it is provided that the
Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction, &c., where a
State is a party, &c., except between a State and citizens of
other States, or aliens, in which latter case it shall have original
but not exclusive jurisdiction. According to the argument, the
whole of the exception would be unconstitutional, as the cases
mentioned should have been vested exclusively in the Supreme
Court." Following these decisions, we have held at the present
term, in B6rs v. Preston,ante, 252,that consuls may be sued in the
Circuit Courts of the United States in cases where the requisite
citizenship exists.
In view of the practical construction put on this provision of
the Constitution by Congress at the very moment of the organization of the government, and of the significant fact that from
1789 until now no court of the United States has ever in its
actual adjudications determined to the contrary, we are unable
to say that it is not within the power of Congress to grant
to the inferior courts of the United States jurisdiction in
cases where the Supreme Court has been vested by the Constitution with original jurisdiction. It rests with the legislative
department of the government to say to what extent such
grants shall be made, and it may safely be assumed that nothing will ever be done to encroach upon the high privileges of
those for whose protection the constitutional provision was intended. At any rate, we are unwilling to say that the power
to make the grant does not exist.
It remains to consider whether jurisdiction has been given
to the Circuit Courts of the United States in cases of this
kind. As has been seen, it was not given by the Judiciary Act
of 1789, and it did not exist in 1873, when the case of Wisconsin v. Duluth, 2 Dill. 406, was decided by Mr. Justice Miller
on the circuit. But the act of March 3d, 1875, ch. 137, 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 470, "to determine the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of
the United States, and to regulate the removal of causes from
the State courts, and for other purposes," does, in express
terms, provide, "that the Circuit Courts of the United States
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law,
or in equity,

.

.

.

arising under the Constitution or

laws of the United States ; "and also that suits of the same
nature begun in a State court may be removed to the Circuit
Courts. And here it is to be remarked, that there is nothing
in this which manifests an intention to interfere with the exclusive original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as established
by the act of 1789, and continued by section 687 of the Revised
Statutes. The only question we have to consider is, therefore,
whether suits cognizable in the courts of the United States on
account of the nature of the controversy, and which need not
be brought originally in the Supreme Court, may now be
brought in or removed to the Circuit Courts without regard to
the character of the parties. All admit that the act does give
the requisite jurisdiction in suits where a State is not a party,
so that the real question is, whether the Constitution exempts
the States from its operation.
The same exemption was claimed in Co/hens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 294, to show that the appellate jurisdiction of this court
did not extend to the review of the judgments of a State court
in a suit by a State against one of its citizens; but Chief Justice
Marshall said, "the argument would have great force if urged
to prove that this court could not establish the demand of a
citizen upon his State, but is not entitled to the same force,
when urged to prove that this court cannot inquire whether
the Constitution or laws of the United States protect a citizen
from a prosecution instituted against him by a State. .
It may be true that the partiality of the State tribunals, in
ordinary controversies between a State and its citizens, was not
apprehended, and, therefore, the judicial power of the Union
was not extended to such cases; but this was not the sole nor
the greatest object for which this department was created. A
more important, a much more interesting, object, was the

AMES v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

preservation of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
so far as they can be preserved by judicial authority; and,
therefore, the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union was expressly extended to all cases arising under the Constitution and
those laws. If the Constitution or laws may be violated by
proceedings instituted by a State against its own citizens, and
if that violation may be such as essentially to affect the Constitution and the laws, such as to arrest the progress of government in its constitutional course, why should these cases be
excepted from that provision which expressly extends the
judicial power of the Union to all cases arising under the Constitution and laws ? After bestowing on this subject the most
attentive consideration, the court can perceive no reason,
founded on the character of the parties, for introducing an
exception which the Constitution has not made; and we think
the judicial power, as originally given, extends to all cases arising under the Constitution or a law of the United States, whoever may be the parties," pp. 391-2.
The language of the act of 1875 in this particular is identical
with that of the Constitution, and the evident purpose of Congress was to make the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
co-extensive with the judicial power in all cases where the
Supreme Court had not already been invested by law with exclusive cognizance. To quote again from Chief Justice Marshall, in CGoenr v. Virginia, p. 379, "the jurisdiction of the
court, then, being extended by the letter of the Constitution to
all cases arising under it, or under the laws of the United
States, it follows, that those who would withdraw any case of
this kind from that jurisdiction must sustain the exemption they
claim, on the spirit and true meaning of the Constitution,
which spirit and true meaning must be so apparent as to overrule the words which its framers have employed." This rule
is equally applicable to the statute we have now under consideration. The judicial power of the United States extends
to all cases arising under the Constitution and laws, and the
act of 1875 commits the exercise of that power to the Circuit
Courts. It rests, therefore, on those who would withdraw any
case within that power from the cognizance of the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Courts to sustain their exception "on the spirit and true meaning of the" act, "which spirit and true meaning must be so
apparent as to overrule the words its framers have employed."
To the extent that the words conflict with other laws giving
exclusive original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court this has
been done, but no more. The judicial power of the United
States exists under the Constitution, and Congress alone is
authorized to distribute that power among courts.
We conclude, therefore, that the cases were removable under
the act of March 3d, 1875.
like order to remand in each case is reversed, and the Cireuit
Court directed to entertain te cases as _pro-)erly removed
from thie State court and proceed accordingly.

ALLEY v. NOTT.
AP'PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted March 24th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Jurisdiction-Pleading-Removalof Causes-Statutes.
It is within the discretion of the court, after overruling a general demurrer to
a declaration or complaint as not stating facts which constitute a cause of
action, to enter final judgment on the demurrer ; and such judgment if
entered may be pleaded in bar to any other suit for the same cause of action.
As a demurrer to a complaint because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action raises an issue which involves the merits, a trial
of the issue raised by it is a trial of the action within the meaning of ยง 3
of the act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 471, relating to the time within
which causes may be removed from State courts. Vannevar v. Bryant,
21 Wall. 41 ; Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214 ; King v.
Worthington, 104 U. S. 44 ; Jlewitt v. Phelps, 105 U. S. 393, distinguished
from this case. Milte v. Tobin, 18 Fed. Rep. 609, overruled.

The only question argued and decided in this case was
whether the cause was properly removed from the State court
under the Removal Act after a general demurrer to the complaint for showing no cause of action had been heard and over-

