HAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.

701

Syllabus.

IAGAR

v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.
SAME

APPEALS

FROM

THE

v. SAME.

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued March 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Constitutional Law-Legal Tender-Swamp Lands-Tax.
It is within the discretion of the legislature of California to prescribe a system
for reclaiming swamp lands, when essential to the health and prosperity of
the community, and to lay the burden of doing it upon the districts and
persons benefited.
Lands in California derived by grant from the Mexican government are sub
jeet to State legislation respecting swamp and overflowed lands.
The acts of Congress making the notes of the United States a legal tender do
not apply to involuntary contributions in the nature of taxes or assessments
exacted under State laws, but only to debts in the strict sense of the term ;
that is, to obligations founded on contracts, express or implied, for the
payment of money.
The distinction between a tax which calls for no inquiry into the weight of
evidence, nor for anything in the nature of judicial examination before collection, and a tax imposed upon property according to its value to be ascertained by assessors upon evidence, pointed out and commented on. In the
former no notice to the owner is required. In the latter the officers in
estimating the value act judicially.
A law authorizing the imposition of a tax or assessment upon property according to its value does not infringe that provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that no State shall deprive any person of property without due process of law, if the owner has
an opportunity to question the validity or the amount of it, either before
that amount is determined, or in subsequent proceedings for its collection.
It is not competent for the owner of land which is part of a grant to a State
under the swamp land act, 9 Stat. 519, to set up in proceedings begun to
enforce a tax on the land assessed under a State law for the purpose of draining and improving it, that the State law impairs the obligation of the
contract between the State and the United States, and so violates the Constitution ; because (1), if the swamp land act constituted a contract between
the State and the United States he was no party to it ; and (2), the appropriation of the proceeds of the granted swamp lands rests solely in the
good faith of the State. Mills County Y. Railroad Companies, 107 U. S.
557, affirmed.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Hr. IF C. Belelier for appellant.
Mr. A.

. ]hodes for appellee.

MRl. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of the legislature of California, passed in 1868, a
general system was established for reclaiming swamp and overflowed, salt narsh, and tide lands in the State, of which there
is a large quantity, and thus fitting them for cultivation.
It will be sufficient for the purposes of this suit to state the
general features of the system, without going much into detail.
It provides for the formation of reclamation districts where
lands of the kind stated are susceptible of one mode of reclamation; such districts to be established by the board of supervisors of the county in which the lands, or the greater part of
them, are situated, upon the petition of one-half or more of the
holders thereof. The petition being granted, the petitioners
are required to establish such by-laws as they may deem necessary for the work of reclamation and to keep the same in repair; and to elect three of their number to act as a board of
trustees to manage the same. This board is empowered to
employ engineers and others to survey, plan, and estimate the
cost of the work, and of land needed for right of way, including drains, canals, sluices, water-gates, embankments, and material for construction; and to construct, maintain, and keep in
repair all works necessary for the object in view. The trustees
are required to report to the board of supervisors of the county,
or, if the district be in more than one county, to the board of
supervisors in each county, the plans of the work and estimates
of the cost, together with estimates of the incidental expenses
of superintendence and repairs. The supervisors are then to
appoint three commissioners, who are jointly to view and assess
upon each acre to be reclaimed or benefited a tax proportionate to the whole expense, and to the benefits which will result
from the works ; which tax is to be collected and paid into the
county treasury or treasuries, as the case may be, and placed
to the credit of the district, to be paid out for the work of
reclamation upon the order of the trustees, when approved by

HAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 1O8.

703

Opinion of the Court.

the board of supervisors of the county. If the district be in
more than one county the tax is to be paid into the treasury of
the county in which the land assessed is situated. If the
original assessment be insufficient for the complete reclamation
of the lands, or if further assessments be required for the protection, maintenance, and repair of the works, the supervisors
may order additionl assessments upon presentation by the
trustees of a statement of the work to be done, and an estimate
of its cost, such assessments to be levied, and, if delinquent,
collected, in the same manner as the original assessment.
The commissioners are required to make a list of the amounts
due from each owner of land in the district, and of the amount
assessed against the unsold land, and file the same with the
treasurer of the county in which the lands are situated. The
lists thus prepared are to remain in the office of the treasurer
for thirty days or longer, if so ordered by the trustees, during
which time any person can pay to the treasurer the amount
assessed against his land ; but if at the end of the thirty days,
or the extended time, the tax has not been paid, the treasurer
is to transmit the list to the district attorney, who is to proceed
at once against the delinquents in the manner provided by law
for the collection of State and county taxes.
The political code of the State, which went into effect on the
1st of January, 1873, embraces substantially the provisions of
the act of 1868. The changes are more in language than in
substance. So far as subsequent proceedings are concerned the
code prescribes the rule.
The Reclamation District No. 108, the plaintiff in the court
below, was established in September, 1870, under the act of
1868. It embraces over 74,000 acres of land situated in the
counties of Yolo and Colusa, and forming a compact body susceptible of one mode of reclamation. The trustees of the district originally estimated the cost of the reclamation works,
including incidental expenses, at $140,000, and the commissioners appointed assessed that sum upon the lands in the district.
The amount proved to be insufficient to complete the works,
and upon the report of the trustees that the further sum of
$192,000 was required for that purpose, the supervisors ordered

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that amount to be assessed, and the commissioners appointed
by them levied the assessment upon the lands. This assessment became delinquent, and the present suits were brought to
obtain a decree that the several amounts charged upon the
lands of the appellant are liens upon them, and for their sale
to satisfy the charges. One of the suits is to enforce the liens
on the lands in Yolo County, and the other the liens on the
lands in Colusa County. On his motion they were both removed to the Circuit Court of the United States. That court
held in each case that the several sums assessed were valid liens
upon the lands of the appellant on which they were levied, and
ordered that the lands be sold for the payment of the amounts,
with interest and costs.
From these decrees the appeals are taken.
Of the several objections to the validity of the assessment
urged in the court below, and pressed here, some arise under
local statutes, not involving any questions of federal law; and
some under the laws and Constitution of the United States.
The former relate to the manner in which the reclamation district was formed, it being established by the supervisors of one
county, while part of the lands are situated in another county;
to the fact that the appellant derived his title to his lands under
a grant from the Mexican government; and to the requirement that the amounts assessed should be collected in gold and
silver coin of the United States.
There being no federal question touching these matters, we
follow the decision of the State tribunals as to the construction
and validity of the statutes. It is not open to doubt that it is
in the power of the State to require local improvements to be
made which are essential to the health and prosperity of any
community within its borders. To this end it may provide for
the construction of canals for draining marshy and malarious
districts, and of levees to prevent inundations, as well as for the
opening of streets in cities and of roads in the country. The
system adopted in California to reclaim swamp and overflowed
lands by forming districts, where the lands are susceptible of
reclamation in one mode, is not essentially different from that
of other States, where lands of that description are found. The

11AGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 1o8.

705

Opinion of the Court.

fact that the lands may be situated in more than one county,
cannot affect the power of the State to delegate authority for
the establishment of a reclamation district to the supervisors of
the county containing the greater part of the lands. Such authority may be lodged in any board or tribunal which the
legislature may designate.
In some States the reclamation is made by building levees
on the banks of streams which are subject to overflow; in other
States by ditches to carry off the surplus water. Levees or
embankments are necessary to protect lands on the lower
Mississippi against annual inundations. The expense of such
works may be charged against parties specially benefited, and
be made a lien upon their property. All that is required in
such cases is that the charges shall be apportioned in some just
and reasonable mode, according to the benefit received. Absolute equality in imposing them may not be reached; only an
approximation to it may be attainable. If no direct and invidious discrimination in favor of certain persons to the prejudice
of others be made, it is not a valid objection to the mode
pursued that, to some extent, inequalities may arise. It may
possibly be that in some portions of the country there are overflowed lands of so large an extent that the expense of their
reclamation should properly be borne by the State. But this
is a matter purely of legislative discretion. Whenever a local
improvement is authorized, it is for the legislature to prescribe
the way in which the means to meet its cost shall be raised,
whether by general taxation, or by laying the burden upon the
district specially benefited by the expenditure. County of JMobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 704. The rule of equality and
uniformity, prescribed in cases of taxation for State and county
purposes, does not require that all property, or all persons in a
county or district, shall be taxed for local purposes. Such an
application of the rule would often produce the very inequality
it was designed to prevent. As we said in _Louisiana v. Pillsbury, 105 U. S. 278, 295, there would often be manifest injustice
in subjecting the whole property of a city, and the same may
be said of the whole property of any district, to taxation
for an improvement of a local character. The rule, that
VOL. cxr-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

he who reaps the benefit should botr the burden, must in such
cases be applied.
The fact that the appellant's land was derived from a grant
of the Mexican government in no respect affects the question.
It is the character of the land and its susceptibility of being
reclaimed under one system of works, and not the source of the
owner's title, which authorize the action of the State. The
lands granted by Mexico were not by the treaty, under which
California was acquired, exempted from the control that the
State exercises over all other lands. The objection made is
founded upon the title of the act of 1868 and the language of
some of its provisions, from which it is inferred that the system of reclamation prescribed was intended to apply only to
lands acquired by the State under the Arkansas Swamp Act.
But the Supreme Court of the State has passed directly upon
this objection, in a controversy between the appellant and the
supervisors of Yolo County with respect to this very land, and
has held it untenable. 47 Cal. 222. Besides, the objection, if
originally applicable, was obviated by subsequent legislation in
1872, prior to the assessment in question.
Nor is there anything in the objection that the law requires
the assessment to be collected in gold and silver coin. The
original act of 1868 did not prescribe the currency in which
the charges were to be paid, but before the assessment was
levied it was amended so as to require payment in gold and
silver coin. The acts of Congress making the notes of the
United States a legal tender do not apply to involuntary contributions exacted by a State, but only to debts, in the strict
sense of that term, that is, to obligations for the payment of
money founded on contracts, express or implied. This point was
decided in Lane County v. Oregon, with reference to the first
legal-tender act of 1862. 7 Wall. 71. Subsequent acts imparting the legal-tender quality to notes did not change the general
language of that act. They make such notes a legal tender
"in payment of all debts, public and private, within the United
States." In the case mentioned, a statute of Oregon requiring
the payment of taxes for State and school purposes to be collected in gold and silver coin was sustained on two grounds:

TIAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.

707

Opinion of the Court.

irst, that it was the right of each State to collect its taxes in
such material as it might deem expedient, either in kind, that
is to say, by a certain proportion of products, or in bullion, or
in coin, the court observing that the extent to which the power
of taxation of the State should be exercised, the subjects upon
which it should be exercised, and the mode in which it should
be exercised were all equally within the discretion of its Legislature, except as restrained by its own constitution and that of
the United States, and by the condition that, the power could
not be so used as to burden or embarrass the operations of the
Federal government; and, second, that the legal-tender act had
no reference to taxes imposed by State authority, but only to
debts, in the ordinary sense of the word, arising out of simple
contracts, or contracts of specialty, which include judgments
and recognizances. Assessments upon property for local improvernents are involuntary exactions, and in that respect stand
on the same footing with ordinary taxes. They are, therefore,covered by this decision; the State could determine in what
manner they should be discharged.
The objections urged to the validity of the assessment on
federal grounds are substantially these: that the law under
which the assessment was made and levied conflicts with the
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution declaring that no State shall deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property without due process of law; and impairs the obli
gation of the contract between California and the United
States, that the proceeds of the swamp and overflowed lands
ceded by the Arkansas Act should be expended in reclaiming
them.
That clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is found, in almost identical language, in the several State Constitutions, and
is intended as additional security against the arbitrary deprivation of life and liberty and the arbitrary spoliation of property.
Neither can be taken without due process of law. What constitutes that process it may be difficult to define with precision
so as to cover all cases. It is, no doubt, wiser, as stated by Mr.
Justice Miller in Davidson v. New Orleans, to arrive at its
meaning "by the gradual process of judicial inclusion and ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

elusion, as the cases presented for decision shall require, with
the reasoning on which such decisions may be founded." 96
U. S. 97, 104. It is sufficient to observe here, that by "due
/ process" is meant one which, following the forms of law, is
appropriate to the case, and just to the parties to be affected.
It must be pursued in the ordinary mode prescribed by the law;
it must be adapted to the end to be attained; and wherever it
is necessary for the protection of the parties, it must give them
an opportunity to be heard respecting the justice of the judgment sought. The clause in question means, therefore, that
there can be no proceeding against life, liberty, or property
which may result in the deprivation of either, without the observance of those general rules established in our system of
jurisprudence for the security of private rights. Iilurtado v.
Californic, 110 U. S. 516, 536.
The appellant contends that this fundamental principle was
violated in the assessment of his property, inasmuch as it was
made without notice to him, or without his being afforded any
opportunity to be heard respecting it, the law authorizing it containing no provision for such notice or hearing. His contention
is that notice and opportunity to be heard are essential to
render any proceeding due process of law which may lead to
the deprivation of life, liberty, or property. Undoubtedly
where life and liberty are involved, due process requires that
there be a regular course of judicial proceedings, which imply
that the party to be affected shall have notice and an opportunity to be heard; so, also, where title or possession of property is involved. But where the taking of property is in the
enforcement of a tax, the proceeding is necessarily less formal,
and whether notice to him is at all necessary may depend upon
the character of the tax, and the manner in which its amount
is determinable. The necessity of revenue for the support of
the government does not admit of the delay attendant upon
proceedings in a court of justice, and they are not required for
the enforcement of taxes or assessments. As stated by Mr.
Justice Bradley, in his concurring opinion in Davidson v. New
Orleans: "In judging what is 'due process of law' respect
must be had to the cause and object of the taking, whether

HAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.

709

Opinion of the Court.

under the taxing power, the power of eminent domain, or the
power of assessment for local improvements, or some of these;
and if found to be suitable or admissible in the special case, it
will be adjudged to be ' due process of law,' but if found to be
arbitrary, oppressive, and unjust, it may be declared to be not
'due process of law.'" The power of taxation possessed by the
State may be exercised upon any subject within its jurisdiction,
and to any extent not prohibited by the Constitution of the
United States. As said by this court: "It may touch property
in every shape, in its natural condition, in its manufactured
form, and in its various transmutations. And the amount
of the taxation may be determined by the value of the property, or its use, or its capacity, or its productiveness. It may
touch business in the almost infinite forms in which it is conducted, in professions, in commerce, in manufactures, and in
transportation. Unless restrained by provisions of the Federal
Constitution, the power of the State, as to the mode, form, and
extent of taxation, is unlimited, where the subjects to which it
applies are within her jurisdiction." State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, 319.
Of the different kinds of taxes which the State may impose,
there is a vast number of which, from their nature, no notice
can be given to the tax-payer, nor would notice be of any possible advantage to him, such as poll taxes, license taxes (not
dependent upon the extent of his business), and generally,
specific taxes on things, or persons, or occupations. In such
cases the legislature, in authorizing the tax, fixes its amount,
and that is the end of the matter. If the tax be not paid, the
property of the delinquent may be sold, and he be thus deprived of his property. Yet there can be no question, that the
proceeding is due process of law, as there is no inquiry into
the weight of evidence, or other element of a judicial nature,
and nothing could be changed by hearing the tax-payer. No
right of his is, therefore, invaded. Thus, if the tax on animals
be a fixed sum per head, or on articles a fixed sum per yard, or
bushel, or gallon, there is nothing the owner can do which can
affect the amount to be collected from him. So, if a person wishes
a license to do business of a particular kind, or at a particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

place, such as keeping a hotel or a restaurant, or selling liquors,
or cigars, or clothes, he has only to pay the amount required
by the law and go into the business. There is no need in such
cases for notice or hearing. So, also, if taxes are imposed in
the shape of licenses for privileges, such as those on foreign
corporations for doing business in the State, or on domestic
corporations for franchises, if the parties desire the privilege,
they have only to pay the amount required. In such cases
there is no necessity for notice or hearing. The amount of the
tax would not be changed by it.
But where a tax is levied on property not specifically, but
according to its value, to be ascertained by assessors appointed
for that purpose upon such evidence as they may obtain, a different principle comes in. The officers in estimating the value
act judicially; and in most of the States provision is made for
the correction of errors committed by them, through boards of
revision or equalization, sitting at designated periods provided
by law to hear complaints respecting the justice of the assessments. The law in prescribing the time when such complaints
will be heard, gives all the notice required, and the proceeding
by which the valuation is determined, though it may be followed, if the tax be not paid, by a sale of the delinquent's
property, is due process of law.*
In some States, instead of a board of revision or equalization, the assessment may be revised by proceedings in the
courts and be there corrected if erroneous, or set aside if invalid; or objections to the validity or amount of the assessment may be taken when the attempt is made to enforce it.
In such cases all the opportunity is given to the tax-payer to
be heard respecting the assessment which can be deemed es* That the duties of assessors in estimating the value of property for purposes of general taxation are judicial, see Barhyte v. Shepherd, 35 N. Y. 238,
250 ; Iassan v. Rochester, 67 id. 528, 536 ; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 id. 183 ;
Williams v. Weaver, 75 id. 30, 33; Cooley, Law of Taxation, 266; Burroughs,
Law of Taxation, see. 102 ; Jordan v. Hyatt, 3 Barb. 275, 283 ; Ireland v.
Rochester, 51 id. 416, 430, 431 ; The State v. Jersey City, 24 N. J. Law (4
Zabr.), 662, 666 ; The State v. Morristown, 34 N. J. Law (5 Vroom), id. 445
Griffin v. Mixon, 38 Miss. 424, 437, 438.

HAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.

711

Opinion of the Court

sential to render the proceedings due process of law. In
Davidson v. New Orleans this court decided this precise point.
In that case an assessment levied on certain real property in
New Orleans for draining the swamps of that city was resisted
on the ground that the proceeding deprived the owners of their
property without due process of law, but the court refused to
interfere, for the reason that the owners of the property had
notice of the assessment and an opportunity to contest it in
the courts. After stating that much misapprehension prevailed as to the meaning of the terms "due process of law,"
and that it would be difficult to give a definition that would
be at once perspicuous and satisfactory, the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Miller, said that it would lay down the following proposition as applicable to the case, " That whenever
by the laws of a State, or by State authority, a tax, assessment, servitude, or other burden is imposed upon property for
the public use, whether it be for the whole State or of some
more limited portion of the community, and those laws provide for a mode of confirming or contesting the charge thus
imposed in the ordinary courts of justice, with such notice
to the person, or such proceeding in regard to the property as
is appropriate to the nature of the case, the judgment in
such proceedings cannot be said to deprive the owner of his
property without due process of law, however obnoxious it may
be to other objections." (96 U. S., 97.)
This decision covers the cases at bar. The assessment under
consideration could, by the law of California, be enforced only
by legal proceedings, and in them any defence going either to
its validity or amount could be pleaded. In ordinary taxation
assessments, if not altered by a board of revision or of equalization, stand good, and the tax levied may be collected by a
sale of the delinquent's property ; but assessments in California,
for the purpose of reclaiming overflowed and swamp lands,
can be enforced only by suits, and, of course, to their validity
it is essential that notice be given to the tax-payer and opportunity be afforded him to be heard respecting the assessment.
In them he may set forth, by way of defence, all his grievances. Reclamation District No. 108 v. Evans, 61 Cal. 104.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

If property taken upon an assessment, which can only be enforced in this way, be not taken by due process of law, then, as
said by Mr. Justice Miller, in the New Orleans case, these
words as used in the Constitution, can have no definite meaning.. The numerous decisions cited by counsel, some of which
are given in the note, as to the necessity of notice and of an
opportunity of being heard, are all satisfied where a hearing in
court is thus allowed.*
The objection that the law of California authorizing the
assessment in question, impairs the obligation of a contract
created between the United States and the State by the act of
Congress of September 28th, 1850, commonly known as the
Arkansas Swamp Act, is founded upon a misapprehension of its
provisions. 9 Stat. 519, ch. 84 It is true the act granted to the
State all the swamp and overflowed lands within its limits, on
condition that the proceeds of the lands, "whether from sale or
by direct appropriation in kind," should be applied, as far as
necessary, in reclaiming the lands by means of levees and
drains. Hence the contention of counsel is that the State is
bound to carry out this condition, and apply the proceeds to
the reclamation, or provide for their application to that end,
and that its legislation imposing an assessment upon other lands
to raise the necessary funds for that purpose, is in violation of
this contract, and therefore void. The answer to this position
is twofold. In the first place, if a contract was created by the
Arkansas act, when the State accepted its benefits, it is for the
United States to complain of the breach if there be any. The
plaintiff is not a party to the contract, and is in no position to
* Overing v. Foote, 65 N. Y., 263, 269 ; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 id. 183
Cooley, Law of Taxation, 265-6, 298 ; Thomas v. Gain, 35 Mich. 155, 164
Jlordan v, Hyatt, 3 Barb., 275,. 283 ; Wheeler v. Mills, 40 id. 644 ; Ireland v.
Rochester, 51 id. 414, 430, 431 ; The State v. Jersey City, 24, N. J. L. 4
Zabr, 662, 666; The State v. Newark, 31, id. 360, 363; The State v. Trenton,
36 id. 499, 504; The State v. Elizabeth, 37 id. 357; The State v. Plainfield,
38 id. 97; The State v Newark, 1 Dutch. 399, 411, 426; Patten v. Green, 13
Cal. 325; lflulligan v. Smith, 619,id., 206; Grigin v. Alixon, 38 Miss. 424,
438; County of San Mfateo v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. 8 Sawyer, 238;
County of Santa Clara v. Same, 9 id.; Darling v. Guann, 50 Il1. 424. See
also Gatch v. City of Des Moines, N. W. Rep. 310, 311, 313.

IAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. ios.

713

Opinion of the Court.

invoke its protection. But, in the second place, the appropriation of the proceeds rests solely in the good faith of the State.
Its discretion in disposing of them is not controlled by that condition, as neither a contract nor a trust following the lands was
thereby created. This was distinctly held after elaborate consideration in the recent case of 2flX
8 County v. Railrocd Comranies, 107 U. S. 557, 566.
There are several other objections urged upon our consideration in the elaborate brief of the appellant's counsel, but we do
not deem it necessary to consider them, for they raise only
questions of local law and procedure which have been considered and determined in the courts of the State, from whose
conclusions we should not depart.

Decrees afirnmed.
NOTE.
Legislation of the Colonies prior to the Revolution, and of the States since,
giving to the tax-payer an opportunity to be heard respecting the justice of
the assessment of his property before it becomes final.
In Massachusetts, an act passed in 1692, for defraying the public and necessary charges arising within each county of the province, provided that " If any
person or persons think themselves overrated in any such assessment, they
shall be eased by the assessors making the same to appear, or, in default
thereof, by the court of quarter sessions." (Laws of Massachusetts Bay, p. 19.)
In Connecticut, an act passed prior to 1750 made it the duty of the listers
to hear complaints of parties complaining that they were overrated. "But if
such listers will not give just relief, then upon application made by the
aggrieved party to an assistant, or justice of the peace, with two of the selectmen of the town (notifying two or more of the listers to show reason, if any
they have, why relief should not be granted them), they shall consider the
case, and give such relief as they shall judge just and reasonable." (Acts and
Laws of His Majesty's English Colony of Connecticut, 136 and 262.)
In South Carolina, by an act passed in 1701, for raising money for the public
use and defence of the province, provision is made that the commissioners appointed by the act shall, upon complaint or appeal from any one feeling
aggrieved at the rating, examine the person complaining upon his oath,
touching the value of his real and personal estate, " and upon due examination abate or defaulk proportionably the said assessments, and the same so
abated shall be certified by the commissioners aforesaid, or any two of them,
to the receiver, and such assessment so certified as aforesaid shall be deemed
firme and valid, and to that end the commissioners are hereby required to
meet together for the determining of such complaint and appeal accordingly."
(2 Statutes of South Carolina, 184.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
By other and subsequent statutes the tax-payer was allowed to "swear off"
so much as he should think himself overrated for his stocks or stores, and the
assessors were required to give notice for that purpose, and were authorized to
administer oaths and to allow the abatement. (3 Statutes of South Carolina,
241, 260, 476, and 506.)
In Maine and Massachusetts, the tax-payer may make his complaint first to
the assessor, and, if he refuse to grant the relief demanded, to the county
commissioners. (Me. Rev. Statutes, 1871, p. 144 ; Mass. General Statutes,
1860, p. 79.)
In Rhode Island he may petition the Supreme Court or Court of Common
Pleas, and the court must hear and determine his complaint. (General Statutes, p. 107.)
In Vermont, complaints may be heard before listers, and an appeal lies from
their decision to the selectmen of the town. (General Statutes, 520.)
In Now Hampshire, the tax-payer may apply to the selectmen of the town,
and, if dissatisfied with their decision, may apply, by petition, to the Supreme
Court, in the county, at a trial term, which shall make such order thereon as
justice requires. (General Statutes, 123.)
In Connecticut, a board of relief, to consist of five 'judicious electors," is
annually elected in each town, for hearing and determining appeals from decisions of the assessors. (General Statutes, pp. 24, 159.)
In New York, complaints may be made to the board of assessors. (Rev.
Statutes, 5th Ed., 911 and 912.)
In New Jersey, to the commissioners of appeal, in tax cases. (Rev. Statutes,
1142, 1148.)
In Pennsylvania and Delaware, to county commissioners. (Penn., Pardon's
Dig., p. 937, § 23; Del. Rev. Statutes, 1852, p. 62, .12.)
The Delaware Act of 1796 (2 Laws of Del., 1255, § 14), provided that commissioners should give notice in each hundred, and at the time and place
specified meet and "hear and determine the complaints of any person or persons
that may be aggrieved, and shall generally arrange the said valuations, so that
no person or persons may be unequally or overrated; provided always, that no
person or persons shall be prevented from appealing to the Levy Court and
Court of Appeals of his or their respective county as heretofore."
In Virginia and Georgia, if the tax-payer and assessor cannot agree as to
valuation, each can choose an arbitrator, and they an umpire, to whom the
matter of disagreement is submitted for final determination. (Gee. Code,
1873, § 840; Va. Code, 1860, p. 201.)
In Maryland, North Carolina, Florida, and Alabama the boards of county
commissioners constitute tribunals for hearing and determining complaints in
regard to assessments ; except in Baltimore the board of control and review
constitute such tribunal. (Md. Code, Sup., 1861-67, p. 279, § 175; N. C. Laws,
1874-5, p. 222, § 18; Thompson Dig. Laws of Florida, 97; Ala. Code of
1876.)
In North Carolina, under the Act of 1819, three freeholders, appointed by
the Court of Common Pleas and Quarter Sessions, constitute a board of appeal
for adjustment of assessments. (2 Laws of N. C., p. 1480, § 2.)

HAGAR v. RECLAMATION DISTRICT NO. 108.

715

Opinion of the Court.
In Arkansas, Mississippi, and Kentucky, the county Boards of Supervisors
constitute boards for the equalization of assessments. (Ark. Acts of Assembly, 1873, p. 58 ; Miss. Rev. Code, 1871, p. 851, § 1685 ; Ky. Gen'l Sts., 1873,
p. 724.)
In South Carolina such a board is constituted of the county commissioner,
auditor, and treasurer ; in Louisiana, of the county clerk, recorder and sheriff ;
in Tennessee, of the assessor and two freeholders ; and in Missouri of the presiding judge of the county court and the county surveyor and assessor. (Rev.
Sts. S. C., 69; Voorhies Rev. Sts. La., 840; 1 Sts. Tenn., § 581 Mo.; Mo. Rev.
Stats., 2 vol., §§ 6719, 6720, 6726.)
In West Virginia, the aggrieved party may apply for relief to the county
court with an appeal to the Circuit Court. (Rev. Sts., 1068.) In Texas he may
apply to the county court, and its determinations are final. (Pasehal's Dig.,
869, Art. 5176.)
Boards of Equalization or Review are provided for, consisting
In Illinois, of the assessor, clerk and supervisor. (Ill. Rev. Sts., 1874, p. 871.)
In Indiana, of the county auditor, commissioners, and appraisers. (1 Gavin
& Hord's Stats. of Indiana, p. 83, § 51, 820.)
In Michigan, Iowa, and Nevada, of the boards of supervisors. (1 Compiled
Laws of Mich., 366 ; Code of Iowa of 1873, p. 140 ; General Laws of Nov.,
§ 3139.)
In California, of the boards of supervisors, except where the property assessed consists of the franchise, roadway, roadbed, rails, and rolling-stock of
railroads operated in more than one county, in which case the State board of
equalization acts as assessor, and over its decisions there is no revisory tribunal. (Political Code of Cal., §§ 3673, 8692.)
In Kansas and Nebraska, of county commissioners. (Kans. Comp. Laws,
1879, 953 ; Neb. Gen'l Sts., 907.)
In Ohio, of the county commissioners and county auditor, except in certain
cities, where the board consists of the county auditor and persons appointed by
the city authorities. (Rev. Sts., 1880, p. 731.)
In Oregon, of the county judge, assessor, and clerk. (Deady & Lane's Gen'l
Laws of Oregon of 1874, 756.)
In Wisconsin, the chairman of the board of supervisors, clerk, and assessors
of each town, and the mayor, clerk, and assessors of each city, and the president, clerk, and assessors of each incorporated village, constitute a board of
review for such town, city, or village. (1 Taylor's Statutes, 1871, p. 406, § 58.)
The function of these boards of review, by whatever name called, is essentially the same.

