OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Courts to sustain their exception "on the spirit and true meaning of the" act, "which spirit and true meaning must be so
apparent as to overrule the words its framers have employed."
To the extent that the words conflict with other laws giving
exclusive original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court this has
been done, but no more. The judicial power of the United
States exists under the Constitution, and Congress alone is
authorized to distribute that power among courts.
We conclude, therefore, that the cases were removable under
the act of March 3d, 1875.
like order to remand in each case is reversed, and the Cireuit
Court directed to entertain te cases as _pro-)erly removed
from thie State court and proceed accordingly.

ALLEY v. NOTT.
AP'PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted March 24th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Jurisdiction-Pleading-Removalof Causes-Statutes.
It is within the discretion of the court, after overruling a general demurrer to
a declaration or complaint as not stating facts which constitute a cause of
action, to enter final judgment on the demurrer ; and such judgment if
entered may be pleaded in bar to any other suit for the same cause of action.
As a demurrer to a complaint because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action raises an issue which involves the merits, a trial
of the issue raised by it is a trial of the action within the meaning of ยง 3
of the act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 471, relating to the time within
which causes may be removed from State courts. Vannevar v. Bryant,
21 Wall. 41 ; Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214 ; King v.
Worthington, 104 U. S. 44 ; Jlewitt v. Phelps, 105 U. S. 393, distinguished
from this case. Milte v. Tobin, 18 Fed. Rep. 609, overruled.

The only question argued and decided in this case was
whether the cause was properly removed from the State court
under the Removal Act after a general demurrer to the complaint for showing no cause of action had been heard and over-

ALLEY v. NOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

ruled with leave to answer and answers had been filed.
facts appear more at length in the opinion of the court.

The

3TI.. Albert A. Abbott for appellant, cited on the point that
trial means the investigation of fact only: Stephen on Pleading,
77; Same, note 29, Appendix, citing Braxton, 105 a and
Britton, c. 92; 3 Blackstone, 330; 2 Bouvier's Law Diet. 611,
Trial; Ward v. Davis, 6 How. Prac. N. Y. 274 ; Yanne var v.

Bryant, 21 Wall. 41 ; Lewis v. Smythe, 2 Woods, 117; Dillon
on Removals, etc., 2d ed. 78; Afiller v. Tobin, 18 Fed. Rep.
609; Hfewitt v. Iklps, 105 U. S. 393; 94 Eq. Rule; Ifawes v.
Oakland, 104 U. S. 450.
hXr. George F. Betts and 2Ur. Iforatio F. Averill for appellee.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a case removed from a State court. The suit was begun
on the 2d of March, 1883, in the Supreme Court of New York,
by Eliphalet Nott, a citizen of New York, for himself and all
others who should come in and be made parties to the action,
and contribute to the expenses, against Las Neuve Minas do
Santa Maria Gold and Silver Mining Company, a New York
corporation, John 3. Alley, a citizen of Massachusetts, and
certain other persons, some of whom were citizens of Illinois,
and others citizens of New York. Nott was the holder of
three hundred shares of the stock of the mining company, and
the several individual defendants were trustees and directors.
The prayer of the complaint was, in substance, that the individual defendants might be adjudged to be trustees as to the
amount in money represented by one million shares of the
capital stock of the company, and collectively and severally
decreed to account concerning the same, and that they might
also be severally adjudged to account for the gains and profits
received by each of them from the sale of the stock.
The summons required an answer to the complaint within
twenty days after its service. Two of the defendants were

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

never served and they have never appeared. Four of the individual defendants, including Alley, appeared on the 29th of
March, and filed separate demurrers to the complaint on the
ground "that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action." On the 9th of June, during a special term
of the court begun on the first of that month, "the issues of
law raised by the demurrers of the defendants . . . having
been brought on for trial," and argued by counsel, it was
"ordered that the said demurrers be overruled, and that the
plaintiff have judgment thereon accordingly for costs, with
leave to said defendants demurring, within twenty days to
withdraw said demurrer and answer the complaint upon payment of costs; " and that if the defendants fail to withdraw
their demurrers and answer within the time allowed, a final
judgment be entered against them for the relief to which the
plaintiff is entitled, the form of the judgment to be settled by
the judge. On the 13th of June, all the defendants who had
deniurred gave notice of appeal to the general term of the
court. On the 23d of June, the defendants gave notice that
they would move on the first of July for a stay of execution on
the interlocutory judgment until the appeal could be heard,
and on the 29th of June the time for answering the complaint
was extended until ten days after the determination of this
motion. On the 13th of July another of the defendants
appeared and filed a demurrer to the complaint. On the first
of August the defendants who had appealed withdrew their
appeals and also their respective demurrers, and paid the costs
awarded to the plaintiff by the interlocutory decree, and the
costs of the appeal. Separate answers were filed on the same
day by each of the several individual defendants whose
demurrers had been overruled, and on the next day, August 2d,
Alley presented to the court a petition for the removal of the
suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York. In this petition the citizenship of Nott,
the company, and Alley are stated, and it is then averred "that
the controversy in this suit or action, so far as it respects or is
between the plaintiff individually, or as representing the said
mining company and this petitioner, is wholly between citizens

ALLEY v. NOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

of different States, and that the same can be fully determined
and a final determination of the controversy in said action can
be had, so far as concerns the plaintiff and this petitioner,
without the presence of either of the other defendants or
parties in said cause." It is then stated "that since the service
of said answer there has been no term of the court at which
this action could have been tried."
The suit was docketed in the Circuit Court at once, and on
the 11th of October a motion was made to remand. This
motion was granted on the 21st of December, and from an
order to that effect the appeal was taken.
In our opinion, the petition for removal was not filed in time.
The statute requires the filing to be "at or before the term at
which said cause could be first tried, and before the trial
thereof." By the New York Code of Civil Procedure, issues
are of two kinds: 1, of law; 2, of fact. Sec. 963. An issue
of law arises only on a demurrer. Sec. 964. A demurrer to a
complaint may be, among other things, because "the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action."
Sec. 488. Upon the decision of a demurrer, either at a general
or special term, or in the Court of Appeals, the court may,
in its discretion, allow the party in fault to plead anew or
amend on such terms as may be just. See. 497. An issue of
law in the Supreme Court must be tried at a term held by one
judge. Sec. 976. At any time after the joinder of issue either
party may serve a notice for trial. Sec. 977.
A demurrer to a complaint because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, is equivalent to a
general demurrer to a declaration at common law, and raises
an issue which, when tried, will finally dispose of the case as
stated in the complaint, on its merits, unless leave to amend or
plead over is granted. The trial of such an issue is the trial
of the cause as a cause, and not the settlement of a mere matter of form in proceeding. There can be no other trial except
at the discretion of the court, and if final judgment is entered
on the demurrer, it will be a final determination of the rights
of the parties which can be pleaded in bar to any other suit for
the same cause of action. Under such circumstances, the trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of an issue raised by a demurrer which involves the merits of
the action is, in our opinion, a trial of the action within the
meaning of the act of March 3d, 1875. To allow a removal
after such a trial would be to permit "a party to experiment
on his case, in the State court, and, if he met with unexpected
difficulties, stop the proceedings, and take the suit'to another
tribunal." This, as was said in Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 473,
could not have been the intention of Congress. In effect, when
this case was heard on the demurrer, the issue made by the
pleadings, and on which the rights of the parties depended,
was submitted to the court for judicial determination. This
issue the court decided, but, before entering final judgment,
granted a new trial, with leave to amend pleadings. The
situation of the case at this time, for the purposes of removal,
was precisely the same as it would be if the trial, instead of
being on an issue of law involving the merits, had been on an
issue of fact to the jury, and the court had, in its discretion,
allowed a new trial after verdict. We can hardly believe it
would be claimed that a removal could be had in the last case,
and, in our opinion, it cannot in the first.
The case of Vannever v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41, 43, arose under
the act of March 2d, 1867, c. 196, which allowed a removal at
any time "before the final hearing or trial of the suit," and
what is there said is to be construed in connection with that
fact. The same is true of Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19
Wall. 214. In King v. Worthington, 104 U. S. 44, and Eewiltt
v. Phelps, 105 U. S. 393, 395, the questions were as to the time
when a case could be removed that was begun before the act
of 1875 was passed. In -Lewis v. Smythe, 2 Woods, 117, the
question here presented was not involved, and the removal was
decided to be too late because it was not applied for until after
a trial on the issues of fact had begun. In Niller v. Tobin, 18
Fed. Rep. 609, the experienced district judge for the District of
Oregon did hold that a removal, applied for after hearing upon
a demurrer to complaint because it did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, could be had; but, on full consideration, we are unable to reach that conclusion.
Without deciding whether Alley would have been entitled

UNITED STATES v. BELL.
Opinion of the Court.

to a removal if his petition had been filed in time, we affirm
the order to remand on the ground taken by the circuit judge,
that the application for removal was not made "before the
trial" within the meaning of the term as used in the act of
1875.
Afflrned.

UNITED STATES v. BELL & Another.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

DISTRICT COURT

TILE NORTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

Submitted April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 2lst, 1884.

Evidence.
A transcript from the books of the treasury, certified to by the Fourth Auditor,
showing the account of the Treasury Department with a paymaster of the
navy, accompanied by a certificate of the Secretary of the Treasury that the
certifying officer was the Fourth Auditor at the time of the certificate, is
competent evidence in a suit upon the paymaster's bond.

M1'. Assisiant Attorney-Generac Xcaury for plaintiff in error.
Charles F. Benjamin and XJ,. Richa
for defendants in error.
2,.

2'Allister, Jr.,

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit upon the bond of a purser in the navy, and
at the trial a transcript from the books and proceedings of the
Treasury Department was offered in evidence, authenticated
in the following form:
"TREASURY

DEPARTMENT, FOURTII AUDITOR'S OFFICE,

" WASHINGTON, D. C., Fyeb'y 11, 1881.
"Pursuant to section 886 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, I, Charles Beardsley, Fourth Auditor of the Treasury Department, do hereby certify that the annexed is a transcript of
the books and proceedings of the Treasury Department in account with Miles I1. Morris, late paymaster in the U. S. Navy,

under bond of April 9, 1858.

" CHARLES BEARDSLEY, Auditor.

