OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Congress, and with the necessities of our business conditions
and arrangements.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York is
Affirmcd.

WILLIAMS & Another v. MORGAN & Another, Trustees.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued October 30th, 31st, 1883.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Appeal-Jurisdiction---Parlies.
A decree in a suit in a circuit court for the foreclosure of a railroad, fixing
the compensation to be paid to the trustees under the mortgage from the
fund realized from the sale, is a final decree as to that matter, and this court
has jurisdiction on appeal.
A holder of railroad bonds secured by a mortgage under foreclosure, has an
interest in the amount of the trustee's compensation which entitles him to
intervene, and to contest it, and to appeal from an adverse decision.
When purchasers at a sale of a railroad under foreclosure purehase under an
agreement, recognized by the court and referred to in the decree, that a
new mortgage shall be issued after the sale, a part of which is to be applied
to the payment of the foreclosure debt and a part to the payment of expenses, which expenses include the compensation of the trustees under the
mortgage foreclosed, the purchasing committee named in that agreement
have an interest in fixing that compensation which entitles them to intervene, and to be heard, and to appeal from an adverse decision.
On the facts in this case the allowances made below are held to be excessive.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mfr. J. Ilubley Ashdon (f-r. James Tltomson was with him) for

appellants.
-Mr.John A. Cam)bell, YN-r. John,E. Parsons,and iIi. George

De Forest Lord for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

In this case, the only question on the merits relates to the
compensation which ought to be allowed to the trustees and
receivers of a certain railroad mortgage for their services. A
preliminary question, however, is raised, as to the right of the
appellants to bring the case here by appeal.
The New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga Railroad Company, on the 1st of January, 1869, executed a first mortgage on
its railroad and franchises to secure the payment of four thousand coupon bonds of $1,000 each, with interest at eight per cent.
per annum. Oakes Ames and Edwin D. Morgan were the
trustees. The former having died, James A. Raynor was appointed in his stead. A second mortgage was given in March,
1869, but was foreclosed in 1870, and the property was bought
in for the second mortgage bondholders, who reorganized under
the name of the New Orleans, Mobile, and Texas Railroad
Company, and gave another mortgage (generally called the
second mortgage) to secure $2,000,000, subject to the incumbrance of the first mortgage. Default being made in payment
of interest, the trustees, E. D. Morgan and James A. Raynor,
in January, 1875, by virtue of a provision in the first mortgage,
took possession of the property, but soon found it necessary to
secure the sanction and protection of judicial proceedings. On
the 12th of March, 1875, they filed a bill for foreclosure and
sale of the mortgaged property in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana, and were appointed receivers in addition to their character as trustees. The
railroad covered by the mortgage was the road running along
the Gulf between Mobile and New Orleans, and was in a dilapidated condition, needing new bridges, new embankments,
and extensive repairs as well as rolling stock and machinery.
The road and property were managed and taken care of by the
trustees and receivers for over five years, during which time
Raynor had special charge of the road, superintending and
managing everything in that department; whilst Morgan
looked after the finances of the concern in New York. They
brought the road up to an efficient condition, and made it a desirable property. There is no doubt, from the evidence, that
their services were of the greatest value. Raynor gave his

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

whole time to the road itself and its practical working, superintended the erection of bridges, the raising of the embankment
on the marshes, the procurement of depot and ferry accommodations in New Orleans and Mobile, and whatever related to
the actual management and superintendence of the road as an
important business thoroughfare of travel and transportation.
In November, 1875, the trustees applied to the court to allow
a fixed compensation to Raynor for the extra service he was
performing. In their petition, they say:
"Your petitioners further represent that James A. Raynor has
had to perform the duties of general manager of the railroad in
place of the officer of the company, and that in the course of the
year he has been put to more than the usual labor and care in the
management of the administration of the road itself, performing
the functions of manager and president, and directors, besides the
functions of trustees. Your petitioners respectfully submit an
application for a salary or allowance to him during their administration, either by the year or otherwise. No application for
trustees, allowances will be made, or is designed herein, but only
in respect to the salary of this officer, and for a provision for necessary expenses in order that the disbursements for operating expenses and administration shall all appear."
This application was referred to the master, who reported
that, in his opinion, "an allowance of $10,000 per annum, with
necessary expenses, not to exceed $2,500 per annum, should be
made to Mr. Raynor;" and this report was confirmed by the
court subject to any exceptions that might be filed within
thirty days. No exceptions were filed, and Raynor received
this allowance during the period of his administration, and no
question has ever been made of its propriety.
In the latter part of 1879 it was deemed advisable that the
trust should be brought to a close and the property sold.
About that time negotiations were set on foot for a purchase of
the road in the interest of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, which was then extending its business ramifications
throughout a large portion of the Southern States. In December, 1879, a large number (more than a majority) of the

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

first mortgage bondholders executed an agreement by which
they appointed George Bliss, L. A. Van Hoffman, and Oliver
Ames a committee to negotiate and sell either the bonds or the
railroad, and if the latter, to get a decree for foreclosure and
sale in the pending prqceedings, with power to purchase in the
property for the common interest; and they all agreed to deposit their bonds with the Central Trust Company of New
York, subject to the disposal of the committee, either for sale
or to be used in paying the purchase-money of the road. And
the committee was specially authorized, in concert with the
trustees and receivers, to make an arrangement with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company to transfer the purchase
of the road (when made by the committee) to a corporation to
be organized in the interest of that company, for its bonds to
the amount of $5,000,000, secured by vendor's lien and first
mortgage on the railroad purchased; it being, amongst other
things, stipulated as follows:
"The trustees and receivers to be protected against all their
obligations from management, bonds, contracts complete or incomplete, or otherwise, and all the liabilities of the trustees and
receivers, including all the expenses and charges of the foreclosure, reorganization, and everything incident thereto, to be
paid in cash, to be furnished for the purpose, to the purchasing
committee. Four million dollars of such bonds to be disposed of
by the purchasing committee in exchanging bond for bond or
bonds (and coupons as aforesaid), secured by the said first-mentioned mortgage, the residue of such four millions, and the other
one million of such bonds the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company to have the right to use in providing the cash for the
payment hereinbefore mentioned, and in paying the amount
necessary to be paid to bondholders, secured by the said firstmentioned mortgage, who shall not become parties to this agreement, the surplus, if any, to belong to the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company."
On the 10th of February, 1880, another agreement was entered into, called the purchasing agreement, between the bondholders of the first part, the same purchasing committee of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

second part, and David Thomson and William S. Williams, of
the third part, by which the authority given to the purchasing
committee, by the previous instrument, was confirmed, including that of taking the bonds of the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad in exchange for the first mortgage bonds of the N. 0.,
Mobile, and Texas Railroad Company; and Thomson and
Williams, proposing to act as purchasers, engaged to obtain
from the Louisville Company an agreement to give its coupon
bonds for $5,000,000 to carry out the arrangement substantially
as indicated in the former agreement. If such an agreement
should be obtaiAed, then the railroad, franchises, equipment,
and property should be sold under a decree of foreclosure and
sale in the pending cause, according to law, and bid in by the
committee for the purpose of carrying out the arrangement.
It was also agreed that the receivers and trustees should, by
the Louisville Company, or in some other satisfactory manner,
be protected from all their obligations and liabilities; and it
was further agreed, as follows:
"That all liens that may be declared to be superior to the first
mortgage bonds, and that the certificates and liabilities and lawful fees, charges, and expenses of the receivers and trustees, and
the disbursements of the committee, all to be decreed by the
court, unless fixed by agreement, including all the expenses and
charges of the foreclosure and of the proceedings to carry out
this agreement, less amounts which may be available in the receiver's hands for payment upon such certificates, shall be paid in
cash at the time to be appointed by the court for taking title
under the foreclosure sale, and that all amounts necessary to be
paid to bondholders who shall not become parties hereto shall
also be paid in cash at the same time, and the purchasers [that is,
Thomson and Williams] hereby agree to provide the necessary
amounts, and for the purpose they will be entitled to such of the
said five million dollars of bonds as shall not be exchanged for
bonds deposited as above provided. Said bonds to become their
absolute property, charged only with the payments herein last
above provided for."
It was further agreed that the purchasing committee, in

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

making bids, should act under the direction of the purchasers
(that is, Thomson and Williams), provided that the price
should be sufficient to provide for the payment of all liens
prior to the mortgage, and of all charges, expenses, and liabilities; and that they should assign their bid, or take title and
convey the same to the purchasers, or make other disposition
thereof as requested by the purchasers.
In pursuance of this arrangement, and by consent of Ames
and Williams, trustees of the second mortgage, the final decree
for foreclosure and sale was made on the 5th day of March,
1880. By the fifth clause of this decree it is declared and decreed that, besides the first mortgage bonds, 4,000 in number,
and the coupons for interest thereon, there was due (in the
words of the decree), "for replacement and repairs, additions
and ameliorations made under the authority of this court, the
sum of seven hundred thousand dollars, as shown by certificates,
and which sum is a charge and incumbrance upon the said
mortgaged property, according to the terms of the securities
issued under the order of this court, besides the costs and expenses of the suit and of the management of the property,
whereby it appears to the court that a sale of the property
should be made, and the motion for the sale is therefore
allowed."
By the sixth clause the trustees were directed, under the
supervision of the master, to advertise and sell the mortgaged
property for cash.
The seventh clause was evidently inserted in view of the
preliminary agreements which had been made, and amongst
other things decreed as follows:

"Seventh. The court further orders and decrees that it shall
be competent for the holders of a majority or greater number of
the bonds described in the deed of trust of the plaintiffs to form
an agreement appointing a purchasing committee, or, if such an
agreement has already been made by a majority of the bondholders, the committee so appointed therein may act, if the agreement empowers. . .
A copy of this agreement shall be deposited with the master, and be open to inspection ten days beVOL. cxi-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

fore the day of sale. . . . No more money shall be required
than shall be sufficient, in the opinion of the master and trustees,
to assure the payment of the charges and privileges upon the
fund as shown by this decree, and the amount to be ascertained
by the master's report before mentioned ; and also the charges,
including those arising under the orders of the court before
mentioned, defined in the first article of the deed of trust, and
consisting of expenses of management, conduct of business, repairs, replacement, ameliorations, incidental charges of administration, and for compensation of service, for which there is not
adequate provision for payment from the moneys on hand, and
these charges the master must ascertain and give notice of at the
sale."

By the eighth clause of the decree the master and trustees
were directed to report the sale when made, with a draft of
the conveyance to be made to the purchaser, or any assignee
or substitute for the purchaser; and it was declared competent
for the purchasing committee to assign their purchase. By the
eleventh clause it was decreed that the trustees and receivers
might move for their discharge at the time of the confirmation
of the sale, and in the meantime might settle all their accounts
in either capacity which had not been adjusted. It was further decreed that any surplus produced by the sale should be
paid to the trustees of the second mortgage; and that these
trustees should advertise and sell any property covered by the
second mortgage which was not covered by the first mortgage.
Under this decree the sale was advertised to take place on
the 24th day of April, 1880.
A supplemental decree was made on the 9th of March, 1880,

directing the master to proceed between that date and the day
of sale to examine the accounts of the trustees, and ascertain
what sums were due under the article of the deed of trust re-

ferred to in the decree, which provides for the payment of the
expenses of management, charges for the custody of the property, compensation for service and allowance to trustees, &c.
The master made a preliminary report on the accounts on
the 23d of March, 1880, but not on the subject of allowance to
the trustees, or other preferred charges.

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 27th of March, 1880, the purchasing agreement of
February 10th was filed with the master; and the agreement
of December 16th, 1879, was also laid before him.
On the 29th of March, the counsel for the trustees and receivers filed with the master a statement of the charges to be
paid by the purchasers at the sale to be made on the 24th of
April, in substance, as follows:
Certificates issued to raise money for repairs, &c....... $700,000
To John E. Parsons, for services as counsel ............
15,000
Allowance to E. D. Morgan and Jas. A. Raynor for
services and compensation in the management of the
railroad and conduct of the business other than the
services of management and superintendence of the
manager, being the particular services incident to trustees and receivers, annually from the date of entry on
the property, $25,000, to be apportioned between them
as they shall agree.
Allowances (to which the plaintiffs assent) to the master
of the court ......................................
5,000
The costs and expenses of the suit in court.
A charge by the solicitor to be separately preferred.
On the 2d of April, 1880, William S. Williams and David
Thomson filed objections and exceptions to this statementstating that they did so as parties to the purchasing agreement
of February 10th, 1880, and as bondholders; and as grounds of
exception, state that there was no proof to sustain the charges,
and that they were exorbitant and illegal.
On the 3d of April the counsel for the trustees and receivers
moved to overrule the exceptions, as being in favor of no person having any interest.
The master proceeded to take proofs on the subject of the
charges, and a great deal of testimony, and documentary evidence were adduced, going to show the great amount of trouble
and litigation which the trustees and receivers and their counsel, had to encounter in the five years and more during which
they had control of the property. This examination lasted up
to the day preceding the sale.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 6th of April Williams and Thomson withdrew their
opposition to the item of $700,000 for receivers' certificates.

On the 8th of April Foster and Thomson, named in the
agreement of February 10th, 1880, as attorneys to represent
the purchasers (Thomson and Williams) in settling the form of
the decree, and in examining the title, &c., and who were to
consult with the counsel for the trustees in carrying out the
entire arrangement, filed an objection to the charges and allowances submitted by the trustees, except as to the receivers' certificates; and joined in the objections and exceptions of Williams and Thomson, and asked to be heard.
Thereupon the counsel for the trustees moved to dismiss the
exceptions both of Williams and Thomson and Foster and
Thomson, on the following grounds:
"Williams and Thomson appear as interposed persons or as
brokers of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company to accomplish the purchase of the railroad in charge of the plaintiffs
or trustees. Their contracts are with a voluntary committee of
bondholders who have made a purchasing agreement. They have

not purchased the railroad nor purchased the bonds, but have
made an agreement with the committee that they should purchase and sell to the railroad on a variety of conditions which
may not be fulfilled. Any higher bidder may acquire the railroad. The trustees have reserved right and obligation to purchase the road. Williams and Thomson may not appear and
carry out one word of the engagement or comply with the conditions to bind the buyer with the bondholders' committee. They
have no right to contest the claims or the accounts of the plaintiffs or those of the attorneys. They must take the property as
they find it and the charges on it shall they purchase the property.
" 2. The Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company furnish
$5,000,000 in bonds to be used for the purchase ; a portion is to
be used to buy the bonds of the old company; a part to pay

preferential charges and claims, and to return the property,
amounting to $300,000. These two persons are to have the remnant

not consumed by those charges on that fund. So, to make their
commissions or brokerage or compensation larger, they come to

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

contest with trustees, attorneys, and officers of court, who for
five years have been at work. The title to do this is insufficient.
" 3. Foster and Thomson are attorneys apparently for Williams
and Thomson, to examine the title and arrange for the fulfillment
of terms, but have no claim that Williams and Thomson have not."
It appears from the master's report, afterward filed, that on
the 20th day of April, 1880, the solicitor for the complainants
and the committee of bondholders withdrew "the previous
claims (submitted March 29th, 1880), for any of the parties under
the authority they conferred, all parties preferring to submit
their claims anew," &c. The withdrawal was allowed as
prayed for; whereupon the said claims were presented anew as
follows, viz. :
"Amount of certificates of indebtedness ........... $700,000
Do. due to John E. Parsons, professional services. 15,000
Do. do. J. A. Campbell, professional services to
be settled .................................. 20,000
E.D. Morgan claims for $15,000 annually from date of
finding bill to April 1, 1880, for services, trustee
and receiver, amounting to .................. 75,780
J. A. Raynor likewise claims ..................... 75,780
5,000
Allowance recommended for master's services ......
for journey to New
do.
do
Do.
117
York under decree, actual expense ..............
Costs of the marshal in the cause .................
.................
do
Do do. clerk
20
Attorney's Docket fee ...........................

00
00
00

80
80
00
25

00"

On the 23d of April, Williams and Thomson and Williams
separately, filed applications to the court for leave to be heard
before the master and the court in opposition to the claim for
charges and allowances; Williams stating that he held first
mortgage bonds to the amount of $582,000, and represented
others; and that he was a trustee under the second mortgage,
and, as such, entitled to any surplus of the proceeds of sale,
and interested in resisting and reducing the charges and allowances. Thomson and Williams stated that they had acquired
rights under the purchasing agreement and were also first and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

second mortgage bondholders, and had an interest as such to
oppose the charges.
The court granted both of these applications, and the parties
were fully heard before the master on the 23d of April.
The sale took place under the decree on the 24th of April, as
advertised, and the property was bid off and adjudicated to the
purchasing committee of the bondholders, Bliss, Von Hoffman,
and Ames, under the direction of Williams and Thomson,
according to the programme of the agreement, and the purchasing committee, at their request, assigned the bid to a new
company organized for the purpose, called the New Orleans,
Mobile and Texas Railway Company, as reorganized; and to
this company the trustees executed a deed accordingly.
On the 3d of May the master made his report on the subject
of charges and allowances, stating fully the proceedings before
him. Amongst other things he says: "At the final hearing
the only question discussed by the parties was as to the amount
of the allowances to be made to the complainants for services
incident to trustees and receivers; the exceptions to all of the
other items of the claim for allowances seem to have been
abandoned." And his conclusion is as follows: " That the exceptions of the opponents as to the amounts claimed by Messrs.
Morgan & Raynor for their services as trustees and receivers
at the rate of $15,000 per annum as being excessive, should be
maintained, and that an allowance be made to the said Morgan
& Raynor, trustees and receivers, for their services under the
deed of trust herein, at the rate of $5,000.00 per annum, from
March 12th, 1875, to May 8th, 1880, amounting to $25,677.24
(the said amount to be settled by and between them), as a
sufficient compensation for their services. The preferential
charges, allowances, and costs to be paid in the cause are as
follows:
"Ain't for certificates of indebtebtedness .......... $700,000 00
" due to John E. Parsons, counsel ............
15,000 00
" J. A. Campbell
do ..............
20,000 00
"

E. D. Morgan and J. A. Raynor, trustees ....

" for publishing notice of sale in New York,
New Orleans, and Mobile ..............

25,677 24

1,485 70

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Ami't for marshal of the court ....................
" clerk
"
"
C master's ,xpcnses to New York to deposit
bonds ................................
" master's fee for services (left to the discretion
of the court) ..........................
" cost of mortgage certificates ...............

$26 00

117 25

This report was excepted to by the solicitor for the trustees and
receivers, and the exceptions being argued, an order was made
on the 7th of May 1880, recommiting the report, with instructions to allow Edwin D. Morgan a salary of $10,000 per
annum, and James A. Raynor $15,000 per annum; and to the
solicitor of the trustees $6,000 per annum; all without reference to other allowances. The remainder of the report was
confirmed.
In accordance with these instructions, the master reported
on the disputed allowances as follows:
"Ain't of allowance to J. A. Raynor, trustee, from
date of entry upon the property, Feb'y
1st, 1875, to May 8th, 1880, 5yrs. 3 mos.
and 8 days, @ $15,000.00 per annum.... $79,083 28
"

allowance to E. D. Morgan, trustee, same time

"

allowance to J. A. Campbell, counsel fees, from
Feb'y 1st, 1875, to May 8th, 1880, 5 yrs.
3 mos. and 8 days, @ $6,000.00 per annum...31,633 28"

as J. A. Raynor, @ $10,000 per annum..

52,722 15

This report was excepted to on 8th of Mlay by Williams
and Thomson, as purchasers named in the contract of February
10th, 1880, and by Wiliams personally, as holder of 582 first
mortgage bonds, and as representing others holding similar
bonds, and also as trustee under the second mortgage. On the
17th of May the exceptions were dismissed. From this order
the present appeal was taken, on the 21st of May, by Williams
and Thomson, and by Williams personally, in the characters
named above. After the appeal had been taken and allowed,
the trustees filed their general accounts, which were duly

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

reported on and confirmed, including therein the full charges
allowed by the master in his last report; and the trustees were
discharged from their trust.
It may be remarked at once, that the proceedings in the
court below, after the appeal was taken, if it was perfected in
time, would not affect it if Williams and Thomson had a right
to appeal, and if the order was an appealable one. These conditions existing, that branch of the case was no longer in possession of the court. There is no question that the appeal was
perfected in time; the bond was approved and filed on the 31st
of May, 1880.
As to the right of Williams and Thomson to appeal, this
depends on their right to intervene and contest the allowances
to the trustees; or rather on the power of the court to allow
them to do so. And we do not well see how this power can
be doubted if they had a substantial interest at stake. From
the first, they claimed to have such an interest not only as
interested under the purchasing agreement (a copy of which
they filed with the master), but as bondholders chargeable
with the payment of their part of the charges. Though a motion was made to overrule their exceptions, the master declined
to pass upon it himself, and the proceedings before him were
continued and progressed in (apparently by mutual consent)
until the court could hear the motion. This it did on the 23d
of April, when Williams separately, and Williams and Thomson jointly, presented (as we have seen) formal applications to
be allowed to be heard before the master and the court. Williams claimed the right to be heard on the ground of his being
a holder of first mortgage bonds to the amount of $582,000,
and of representing others; and on the further ground of being
one of the trustees of the second mortgage, entitled to any surplus; and Williams and Thomson claimed the same right, as
being interested under the purchasing agreement, and also as
being first and second mortgage bondholders. The court very
properly, as it seems to us, granted their application. Their
status as bondholders and otherwise does not seem to have
been denied. As bondholders, and as interested under the
second mortgage, if not under the purchasing agreement, we

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of tho Court.

do not well see how the court, under the circumstances, could
have refused their application. The trustees themselves, who
were the nominal complainants, were the parties interested to
obtain large allowances for themselves, and could not be relied
on to have them reduced.
From the time of the sale, on the 24th of April, 1880, if not
before, Williams and Thomson became interested in the amount
of the charges and allowances that were to be paid out of the
extra $1,000,000 of Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
bonds. They were then committed to the carrying out of the
purchasing agreement. The bid of the purchasing committee
of the bondholders was made on their account and under their
direction; it was made for them under the agreement, and they
were virtually the purchasers; and from that time, the agreement of February 10th, 1880, governed the proceedings and
rights of the parties. The bid was only $4,000,000, and yet
the Louisville and Nashville Company issued its $5,000,000 of
bonds pursuant to the agreement, $4,000,000 of which were to
go to the first mortgage bondholders, and the other $1,000,000
were retained by the purchasers under their agreement to advance sufficient cash to meet the preferred claims. This they
did, and all the claims were paid, the present controversy relating to the proper allowances to the trustees and receivers only
remaining open. After the sale, it was the purchasers, and
not the bondholders, who were interested in those allowances.
It was a matter of no moment to the bondholders what allowances were made, for they were to have bond for bond in any
event; it was a matter of great moment to the purchasers, for
every dollar allowed to the trustees was so much less for them.
This case differs from that of Swann v. Tfri'yd's Executors,
110 U. S. 590, recently decided by this court. In that case
Swann had purchased the railroad under a decree which provided that the sale should be subject to the liens already established, or which might be established on references then
pending, as prior and superior to the lien of the mortgage; and
the claim of Wright was one of this class, having been before
the master, on reference, for nearly a year when the decree
was made, and warmly contested by the bondholders. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

master did not report on the claim, it is true, until after the
sale was made, and the purchaser applied to oppose its confirmation, and was not allowed to do so, and the sale was afterwards confirmed expressly subject to all liens established as
specified in the decree of sale. Swann afterwards filed a bill
to set aside Wright's claim for fraud in its inception. This bill
was dismissed, and the decree of dismissal was affirmed by this
court, on the ground that the property was purchased expressly
subject to all established claims, or claims that might be established on references then pending, which included Wright's
claim as much as if it had been named.
From this recital of the facts in that case it appears that the
bondholders were permitted, as Williams and Thomson (also
bondholders) were in the present case, to contest the claim
sought to be established as prior to the mortgage. The purchaser was not allowed to contest the claim, because he had no
right to do so by virtue of any stipulation made either at or
before the sale : whereas in the present case, by the preliminary
agreement made between the bondholders and the proposed
purchasers (and who afterward became such), it was expressly
stipulated that the latter were to have all that should be left of
the purchasing fund agreed on, after paying $4,000,000 for the
bondholders, and all preferred charges and allowances -- a
stipulation which made them directly interested in the amount
of such charges and allowances, and made them so by the privity of the bondholders themselves. This, as it seems to us,
placed the purchasers in the present case in a very different
position from that which Swann occupied in the case cited.
But, if we are mistaken in this view as regards their position as
purchasers, there can be no doubt that as bondholders they had
a right under the leave of the court (which was given to them,
and which could not have been properly refused) to oppose the
charges and allowances in question, and to appeal from the
order by which they were allowed.
We think that the position of Williams and Thomson made
them qua8 parties in the case, and brought them within the
reason of the former cases decided by this court in which persons incidentally interested in some branch of a cause have

WILLIAMS v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

been allowed to intervene for the purpose of protecting their
interest, and even to come into this court, or to be brought
here on appeal, when a final decision of their right or claim
has been made by the court below. We refer to the cases of
Blosson v. iiliWaucee Railroad, I Wall. 655, where a purchaser at a foreclosure sale was admitted to appeal; Minnesota
Comnpany v. St. Paul Company, 2 Wall. 609, 634, to the same
effect; Hinclley v. Gilman, Clinton & Srlngield Railroad,
94 U. S. 467, where a receiver was allowed to appeal from a
decree against him to pay a sum of money in the cause in
which he was appointed receiver; Sage v. Railroad Company,
96 U. S. 712, where parties interested were allowed to appeal
from an order confirming a sale; Trustees v. Greenoug]b, 105
U. S. 527, where an appeal from an order for allowance of
costs and expenses to a complainant sueing on behalf of a trust
fund, was sustained; and Jlovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150,
where an appeal was allowed to be brought against a receiver
from an order made in his favor.
That the order was such as could be appealed from we think
is equally apparent. It was final in its nature, and was made
in a matter distinct from the general subject of litigation,-a
matter by itself, which affected only the parties to the particular controversy, and those whom they represented.
We are then brought to the merits of this controversy. It
concerns only the allowances to the trustees; nothing else was
insisted on before us. The allowance made by the court below
is certainly, to say the least, a liberal one. A great deal of
evidence was adduced to show that a vast amount of labor and
litigation and operations of perplexity and difficulty were performed by the trustees whilst they were acting as receivers of
the court. We are perfectly satisfied that their application for
allowance was a very meritorious one. They really lifted the
road out of the mire, and renovated it from beginning to end,
made important contracts, built expensive bridges, purchased a
large amount of iron, and kept the concern on its legs until it
could walk alone,-the financiering part not being the least
important or difficult. But considering that one of the trustees
had a very liberal salary, as manager and superintendent, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

his expenses paid, we think that the allowance made by the
Circuit Court was larger than it should have been. It is unnecessary to review the evidence; it is too voluminous. The
question is one of fact and estimation, and we will content ourselves by stating the conclusions at which we have arrived.
We are of opinion1. That Williams and Thomson had such an interest, and.
were so situated in the cause, that they had a right, by leave
of the court, to except and object to the charges and allowances
presented by the trustees and receivers, and that they had a
right to appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court to this court.
2. That the said decree was a final decree for the purposes
of an appeal.
3. That the allowance to said trustees was greater than,
under the circumstances, it should have been. In our opinion
the gross sun of $75,000 would have been a just and sufficient
allowance to said trustees jointly for their services and compensation as trustees and receivers, exclusive of the salary paid
to James A. Raynor as manager and superintendent.
4. That the residue of the order and decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, and that each party should pay their
own costs on this appeal, except the costs of printing the
record, which should be equally divided between the parties.
t is therefore the judgment of this court, and so ordered,that
the decree below be reversed as to the allowance made to
Edwin A J.forgan and James A. Raynor as trustees and
receivers as described in the record, and that the cause be
remanded, with instructions to enter a decree allowing the
said trustees and receivers jointly for their services and
compensation as such trustees and receivers (independently
of the salary allowed and paid to the said James A. Raynor, as manager and superintendent), the gross sum Of
$75,000 instead of the allowance made by the decree appealed from.
It is further ordered that the remainder of the said decree
be aflrmed, and that each party pay their own costs on
this appeal, except the cost of printing the record,which is
to be equally divided between the parties.

