OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

ited for an appeal or writ of error does not begin to run until
the petition is disposed of. Slaughter louwse Cases, 10 Wall.
273, 289; 21 lemphis v. -Brown, 94 U. S. 715, 717. The motion for rehearing in this case was not decided until December
21st, and the writ of error was sued out and served within sixty
days thereafter. This was in time to secure the superedeas.
Th/e motion to vacate is, therefore, overruled.

The questions arising on the merits are not of a character to
be disposed of on a motion to affirm.
Tliat motion is also denied.

EAGLETON MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. WEST,
BRADLEY & CAREY MANUFACTURING COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL

FROM TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued April 15th and 16th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Patent.
Letters patent No. 122,001, granted to the Eagleton Manufacturing Company,
December 19th, 1871, for an "improvement in japanned furniture springs,"
as the alleged invention of J. J. Eagleton, held to be invalid, and the following points ruled :
(1.) The patent is for steel furniture springs protected by japan, and tempered
by the heat used in baking on the japan ;
(2.) Such springs, so protected and tempered, were known and used by various
persons named in the answer, before the date of the patent;
(3.) The specification which accompanied the original application by Eagleton,
July 6th, 1868, did not set forth the discovery that moderate heat, such as
may be applied in japanning, will impart temper to the springs, but set
forth merely the protection of the springs by japan ;
(4.) Not only does the evidence fail to show that Eagleton, who died in February, 1870, in fact made and used, prior to such other persons the invention
covered by the patent as issued, but it shows that he did not, and that,
probably, it never came to his knowledge while he lived ;
Japanning, by itself, was not patentable, and Eagleton, in the specification
(5.)
which he signed and swore to, did not describe any mode of japanning
which would temper or strengthen the steel, and did not even mention that

EAGLETON MFG. CO. v. WEST, &c., MFG. CO. - 491
Opinion of the Court.
the japan was to be applied with heat, and it now appears that the temper
and strength are produced by the heat altogether, and not at all by the
japan.
(6.) The only invention to which the application and oath of Eagleton were
referable was that of merely japanning steel furniture springs ; the authority given to his attorneys was only to amend that application, and
ended at his death ; the amendments made were not mere amplifications
of what had been in the application before; the patent was granted
upon them without any new oath by the administratrix ; and this defence
is not required, by statute, to be specifically set forth in the answer, and
can be availed of under the issues raised by the pleadings, as showing that
the plaintiff has no valid patent.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
X~r. Fy. IL. Belts for appellant.
iVXr. TV. C.
1.

'itter for appellees.

JUSTIcr BLATcrORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, on letters patent
No. 122,001, granted to the plaintiff, The Eagleton Ivianufacturing Company, December 19th, 1871, for an "improvement in
japanned furniture springs." The patent contains these recitals:
"Whereas J. J. Eagleton of New York, New York (Sarah N.
Eagleton, administratrix), has presented to the Commissioner
of Patents a petition praying for the grant of letters patent for
an alleged new and useful improvement in japanned furniture
springs (she having assigned her right, title and interest in said
improvement, as administratrix, to Eagleton Manufacturing
Company, of same place), a description of which invention is
contained in the specification of which a copy is hereto annexed
and made a part hereof, and has complied with the various requirements of law in such cases made and provided; and
whereas, upon due examination made, the said claimant is adjudged to be justly entitled to a patent under the law." The
specification of the patent is as follows:
"Be it known, that I, J. Joseph Eagleton, of New York, in the
county of New York, and State of New York, have invented a
new and useful improvement in furniture springs ; and I do hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
declare that the following is a full, clear, and exact description
thereof, which will enable others skilled in the art to make and
use the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawing,
forming part of this specification, in which the drawing represents
a furniture Vpring provided, according to my improvement, with
[The helical springs heretofore employed
a japan covering.

for furniture-seats, mattresses, &e., have generally been made of
iron wire, brass, or copper ; but steel wire, although a far superior
material for such springs, has not been commonly employed, owing

EAGLETON MFG. CO. v. WEST, &c. MFG. CO.

493

Opinion of the Court.
to the lack of means for protecting such springs from corrosion
and the lack of means for imparting to them the necessary stiffness or temper. The object of this invention is to produce steel
furniture springs that shall not only be protected from corrosion,
but shall also be suitably tempered and stiffened. The drawing
is a perspective view of one of my improved springs. In carrying
out my invention, I provide a suitable quantity of steel wire of
the size of which the spring is to be made, and this I wind
upon blocks in the usual manner, giving the wound spring the
ordinary pressing or set. I then provide a suitable bath containing the ordinary preparation of japan varnish, in which I dip or
place the springs, so as to cover them with japan. They are then
removed and strung on wires, or put on pegs, to drain, after which
they are placed in a baking oven of the ordinary kind suitable for
the baking of japanned articles, in which oven the springs are
subjected to a temperature sufficient to bake and harden the
japan ; after which the springs are removed from the oven and
allowed to cool, when they are ready for use. The treatment of
the springs in this manner imparts to them two important and
valuable qualities : First, the springs, when they come from the
oven and are cooled, have firmly attached to their exterior surface
a water-proof covering or coating, which perfectly protects them
from corrosion and fits them for service in all kinds of climates,
hot or cold, dry or damp. Second, the springs thus prepared are
strengthened or stiffened, the application of heat to the springs in
the oven having the apparent effect to temper the steel of which
they are composed, making the springs stronger and more elastic.
As between a steel spring not japanned, as I have described, and
a steel spring japanned, as described, both being of the same size
and made from the same piece of wire, the japanned spring will
be found to be much stronger than the spring not japanned. The
spring not japanned is, therefore, not only lacking in strength,
but it is also practically useless, for want of a protecting
covering.
But the improved article, produced substantially
in the manner I have described, forms a strong and durable spring, and no article like it has, so far as I am aware,
ever been known or used. While I do not claim broadly,
the making of furniture springs of steel wire, I wish it to be
understood I do not limit or confine myself to the exact order
or method of operation here described, in producing my im-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

proved springs, as the order or method may be varied without
departing from my invention."]

There are two claims, namely: "1. The method, herein described, of strengthening metal springs. 2. As an improved
article of manufacture, a spring made substantially as herein
described."
Eagleton, as inventor, filed in the Patent Office, on the 6th
of July, 1868, a petition for a patent for an "improvement in
furniture springs," accompanied by an affidavit, a specification,
a drawing, and a model, and the proper fee, and, in the petition, appointed Munn & Co. "to act as his attorneys in presenting the application and making all such alterations and
amendments as may be required, and to sign his name to the
drawings." The affidavit, that Eagleton verily believed himself to be "the original and first inventor of the within described improvement in furniture springs," was sworn to by
him June 26th, 1868. The specification then filed was as follows: "Be it krown that I,J. Joseph Eagleton, of New York,
in the county of New York, and State of New York, have
invented a new and useful improvement in furniture springs,
and I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear, and
exact description thereof, which will enable others skilled in
the art to make and use the same, reference being had to the
accompanying drawings forming part of this specification, in
which the drawing represents a furniture spring provided,
according to my improvement, with a japan covering. [The
nature of this invention relates to improvements in helical furniture springs, such as are used for mattresses, sofas, &c., the
object of which is to provide steel springs which will not
be so liable to injury from corrosion as those now in use. It
consists in providing steel springs, such as are commonly used,
with a japan outer covering. Steel springs, as is well known,
possess in a much higher degree the requisite qualities of
strength, flexibility, and elasticity than iron, copper, or brass,
and, by reason of the susceptibility of steel to be tempered,
and thereby regulated to any degree of elasticity, it is much
more preferable to use; but, owing to its great liability to de-

EAGLETON MFG. CO. v. WEST, &c. MFG. CO.

495

Opinion of the Court.

terioration from corrosion, it is but little used for such springs.
To obviate this difficulty, I propose to provide steel springs
coated with japan, which I find to be of great advantage in
resisting the corrosive action of the atmosphere on the steel,
and whereby steel springs are made very much more durable
than any other. To some extent, the same purpose may be
accomplished by coating the spring with tin or zinc or other
similar metal, which will not suffer by corrosion, but the process
of coating with such metals requires the use of acids for cleaning and preparing the steel, which, adhering to the steel, and
being to some extent inclosed within the said coating and
maintained in contact with the steel, have an injurious effect
thereon. I have, therefore, found that when the springs are
protected by japanning they are much more durable and give
more satisfactory results, the same being applied by the common japanning process. Iaving thus described my invention,
I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters patent, japanned
furniture springs, as a new article of manufacture, substantially
as and for the purpose described."]
The application was rejected on the 10th of July, 1868, the
following reasons being assigned by the examiner: "The application above referred to has been examined, and is rejected
for want of patentable invention. The japanning of metal is
an old process, and no invention is shown in applying it to a
spring for a bed bottom. It is a common right, possessed by
every one, to galvanize, paint or japan any metal that he may
use." The specification was returned to the applicant. Eagleton died in February, 1870. On December 29th, 1870, the
application for the patent was renewed on the same specification, it being returned to the Patent Office, and received there
January 4th, 1871, and a reconsideration requested, the letter
being signed "J. J. Eagleton, per Munn & Co., attorneys."
Nothing further appears to have been done until, on October
19th, 1871, the specification filed was amended by erasing the
part above put in brackets, and substituting what is in brackets
in the specification of the patent as issued, and by substituting
the following as the claim: "Having thus described my invention, I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters patent, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

an improved article of manufacture, a japanned steel furniture
spring, made substantially as set forth." On the 20th of October, 1871, the application was rejected, the examiner saying:
"The above named application has been examined on the
amended specification, but no reason can be seen for changing
the action of the Office in rejecting the same July 10th, 1868.
The applicant is referred to the Commissioner's decision in the
case of Osborn and Drayton, November 5th, 1870. The application is again rejected." On the 31st of October, 1871, Mlunn
& Co. wrote thus to the Office: "In the matter of the application of J. J. Eagleton, for letters patent for furniture springs,
filed July 6th, 1868, we respectfully request a specific reference, on which the rejection of the case may be based, as provided in Rule 34 of Office Rules of Practice." On November
3d, 1871, this answer was returned: "The applicant's letter of
the 31st of October has been duly considered. Iis application
has been twice rejected for want of patentable invention, and
not for want of novelty. Sufficient reasons, it was deemed,
were given for its rejection, and that Rule 34 of Office Rules
of Practice is not applicable in the case. The process of japanning is so old that it is not probable that any person ever before applied for a patent for it. Furniture springs have been
painted, galvanized, varnished, and probably japanned, as they
are found coated with material that would require a chemical
analysis to determine of what it was composed. The former
action is affirmed." On the 7th of November, 1871, by a letter
to the Office, signed "J. J. Eagleton, per Munn & Co., attorneys," the specification was amended by erasing the claim last
presented and inserting, in lieu thereof, the two claims which
are in the patent as issued. The application was again examined, and, on November 17th, 1871, the patent was ordered to
issue. The specification annexed to the patent purports to be
signed "J. J. Eagleton," and also to be signed by the two witnesses who signed the specification originally filed.
The bill avers that Eagleton, having invented the improvement, died intestate, and Sarah N. Eagleton was appointed his
administratrix, Qnd the invention was assigned to the plaintiff,
and afterwards the administratrix applied for a patent, and

EAGLETON MFG. CO. v. WEST, &c. MFG. CO.

497

Opinion of the Court.

complied with all the necessary conditions and requirements of
the statute, and the patent was issued. The answer states,
that, as to whether or not the patent was applied for or issued
in the manner and with the formalities set forth in the bill, the
defendants leave the plaintiff to proof thereof. It denies that
Eagleton was the first inventor of what is patented by the
patent, and avers that, before the time of any invention thereof
by Eagleton, it was known to and used by various persons
named, at various places mentioned; that the description in
the patent is obscure and not sufficient to enable one acquainted
with the art to use the alleged process therein attempted to be
described, and for that reason the patent is void; that the description and specification of the patent are not in such full,
clear, concise, and exact terms as to enable any person skilled
in the art to which it appertains to temper steel wire, but, if
the description and specification be followed out, there will not
be produced a tempered steel furniture spring; that, if the desired effect be to temper or strengthen a steel furniture spring,
then, for the purpose of deceiving the public, the description
and specification filed by Eagleton were made to contain less
than the whole truth relative to his invention or discovery, and
the patent is, therefore, null and void; that any representation contained in the patent or the specification, that treating
a spring as described therein tempers it, is false; and that treating a steel furniture spring as described in the patent does not
temper it. Infringement, also, is denied.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, assigning its reasons
in an opinion which is found in 18 Blatch ford, 218. The
court decided the following points: (1.) The patent is for steel
furniture springs protected by japan, and tempered by the beat
used in baking on the japan. (2.) Such springs, so protected
and tempered, were known and used by various persons named
in the answer, before the date of the patent. (3.) The specification which accompanied the original application did not set
forth the diseovery that moderate heat, such as may be applied
in japanning, will impart temper to the springs, but set forth
merely the protection of the springs by japan. (4.) Not only
does the evidence fail to show that Eagleton in fact made and
VOL. cxI-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

used, prior to such other persons, the invention covered by the
patent as issued, but it shows that he did not, and that, probably, it never caine to his knowledge while he lived. (5.) Japanning, by itself, was not patentable, and Eagleton, in the specifi..
cation which he signed and swore to, did not describe any mode
of japanning which would temper or strengthen the steel, and
did not even mention that the japan was to be applied with
heat, and it now appears that the temper and strength are produced by the heat altogether, and not at all by the japan.
(6.) The only invention to which the application and oath of
Eagleton were referable was that of merely japanning steel
furniture springs; the authority given to his attorneys was only
to amend that application, and ended at his death; the amendments made were not mere amplifications of what had been in
the application before; the patent was granted upon them
without any new oath by the administratrix; and this defence
is not required by statute to be specifically set forth in the answer, and can be availed of under the issues raised by the pleadings, as showing that the plaintiff has no valid patent.
We are satisfied with the conclusions arrived at by the Circuit Court, and with the reasons assigned by it therefor. The
copy of the file wrapper and its contents in the matter of the
patent, from the Patent Office, giving the history of the application, was put in evidence by the plaintiff. It shows beyond
doubt, that there was no suggestion, in the specification signed
and sworn to by Eagleton, of the invention described in the
amendment filed October 19th, 1871. Prior to that time the
process practised by the defendants, which is the process described in letters patent No. 116,266, granted to Alanson Cary,
June 27th, 1871, for an " improvement in modes of tempering
springs," was invented and put in use; and there is no sufficient
evidence that Eagleton had any knowledge, prior to the invention by Cary of the Cary process, of either that process or of
the process described in the patent in suit. The plaintiff's
patent shows, on its face, that it was granted on the petition
of Eagleton, and the allegation of the bill that the patent was
granted on the application of his administratrix is not established. In view of the entire change in the specification, as to

UNITED STATES v. BRYANT
Syllabus.

the invention described, the patent, to be valid, should have
been granted on an application made and sworn to by the administratrix. (Act of July 8th, 1870, ch. 230, ยง 34, 16 Stat.
202.) The specification, as issued, bears the signature of Eagleton and not of the administratrix, and it is sufficiently shown
that the patent was granted on the application and oath of
Eagleton, and for an invention which lie never made. The
renewed application of December 29th, 1870, was made in the
name of Eagleton, though he was dead. The letter of Munn
& Co. of October 31st, 1871, treats the matter under consideration as the application of Eagleton, though the amendment of
October 19th, 1871, had been made. The amendment of NoVember 7tb, 1871, was not only made in the name of Eagleton,
but the letter of that date, in his name, to the office, states
that what is amended is the specification in his application.
Although at some time before the issuing of the patent evidence was produced to the office of the appointment of the administratrix and of her assignment to the Eagleton Company,
yet it is very clearly shown that there was no application or
oath by the administratrix.
Thie decree of th/e Circuit Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BRYANT & Another.
IN

ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

SOUTIHERN DISTRICT

STATES FOR TIE

OF ALABAMA.

Submittcd April 15th, 1884.-Decided Mtay 5th, 1884.

Action-Practice-United States.
Under ยง 2942 and 2943 of the Code of Alabama, of 1876, which provide for
the bringing of a suit for the recovery of personal chattels in specie, and
for the making of an affidavit by "the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,"
that the property sued for belongs to the plaintiff, and for the giving by
the plaintiff of a bond for costs and damages, as prerequisites to the making of an order for the seizure of the property, an affidavit, in such a suit
by the United States, in the Circuit Court of the United States, made by a
special agent of the General Land Office, in which he swears, "to the best

