M. C. & L. M. RAILWAY CO. v. SWAN.
Opinion of the Court.

MANSFIELD, COLDWATER & LAKE MICHIGAN
RAILWAY COMPANY & Another v. SWAN &
Another.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

INORTHERN DISTRICT OF 01110.
Submitted April 2d, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Removal of Causes-Juridiction-Costs.
The necessary citizenship must appear in the record in order to give jurisdiction
to a court of the United States.
When a cause is removed from a State court the difference of citizenship on
which the right of removal depends must have existed at the time when
the suit was begun, as well as at the time of removal.
It is an inflexible rule that the judicial power of the United States must not
be exerted in a case to which it does not extend, even if both parties desire
to have it exerted. The language of Mr. Justice Curtis in Dred Scott Case,
19 How. 566, cited and adopted.
Under the act of March 3d, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, costs may be awarded in a
court of the United States against a party wrongfully removing a cause
from a State court, when the cause is remanded for want of jurisdiction.
A judgment of this court remanding to a Circuit Court a cause wrongfully removed into it, with directions to remand it to the State court, is an exercise
of jurisdiction.
In such case costs will be awarded against the party
wrongfully removing the cause, when justice and right require.

There was a voluminous record in this case, with a long
assignment of errors, and an elaborate brief on behalf of the
plaintiffs in error. The court gave no opinion on the questions
discussed, but dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction.
-Ilr.17 1K Ird
error.

and 3fr. C. IL Scribner for plaintiffs in

Hr. J. P. Pug8ley for defendant in error.
JUSTICE MATTILEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action at law originally brought in the Court of
Common Pleas of Fulton County, Ohio, by John Swan, S. C.
Rose, F. Mt. Hfutchinson, and Robert MeMann, as partners
under the name of Swan, Rose & Co., against the plaintiffs in
error. The object of the suit was the recovery of damages for

MR.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged breaches of a contract for the construction of the railroad of the defendants below. It was commenced June 10th,
1874.
Afterwards on October 28th, 1879, the cause being at issue,
the defendants below filed a petition for its removal to the
Circuit Court of the United States. They aver therein that
one of the petitioners is a corporation created by the laws of
Ohio alone, and the other, a corporation consolidated under the
laws of Michigan and Ohio, the constituent corporations having
been organized under the laws of those States respectively, and
that they are, consequently, citizens, one of Ohio, and one of
both Michigan and Ohio. It is also alleged, in the petition for
removal, "that the plaintiffs, John Swan and Frank M.
lHutchinson, at the time of the commencement of this suit,
were, and still are, citizens of the State of Pennsylvania; that
the said Robert II. McMann was then (according to your petitioners' recollection) a citizen of the State of Ohio, but that he
is not now a citizen of that State, but where he now resides or
whereof he is now a citizen (except that he is a citizen of one
of the States or Territories comprising the United States),
your petitioners are unable to state; that he went into bankruptcy in the bankruptcy court held at Cleveland, in the State
of Ohio, several years since, and since the alleged claim of the
plaintiffs arose, but your petitioners cannot now state whether
he has now an assignee in bankruptcy or not, but they are
informed and believe that he has not; that the said Stephen
C. Rose, at the time of the commencement of this suit, was a
citizen of the State of Michigan; that he died therein during
the pendency of this suit, and the said Lester E. Rose is the
administrator of the estate of the said Stephen C. Rose in the
State of Michigan, he holding such office under and by virtue
of the laws of that State only, the said Lester E. Rose being a
citizen of the State of Michigan when so appointed and now,
but that he is not a necessary party as plaintiff in this suit, for
the reason, that the suit being prosecuted by the plaintiffs as
partners under the firm name and style of Swan, Rose & Co.,
and for the collection of an alleged debt or claim due to them
as such partners, and which arose wholly out of their dealings

M. C. & L. M. RAILWAY CO. v. SWAN.
Opinion of the Court.

as partners, if it exists at all, upon the death of the said Stephen
C. Rose the cause of action survived to the other partners."
The petition, being accompanied with a satisfactory bond,
was allowed, and an order made for the removal of the cause.
The plaintiffs below afterwards, on December 13th, 1879,
moved to remand the cause on the ground, among others, that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, because the "real and
substantial controversy in the cause is between real and substantial parties who are citizens of the same State and not of
different States." But the motion was denied.
Subsequently a trial took place upon the merits, which
resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiffs,
the defendants in error, for $238,116.18 against the defendants jointly, and the further sum of $116,468.32 against one of
them.
Mlany exceptions to the rulings of the court during the trial
were taken and are embodied in a bill of exceptions, on which
errors have been assigned, and the writ of error is prosecuted
by the defendants below to reverse this judgment.
An examination of the record, however, discloses that the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to try the action; and as, for
this reason, we are constrained to reverse the judgment, we
have not deemed it within our province to consider any other
questions involved in it.
It appears from the petition for removal, and not otherwise
by the record elsewhere, that, at the time the action was
first brought in the State court, one of the plaintiffs, and a
necessary party, McMann, was a citizen of Ohio, the same
State of which the defendants were citizens. It does not
affirmatively appear that at the time of the removal he was a
citizen of any other State. The averment is, that he was not
then a citizen of Ohio, and that his actual citizenship was
unknown, except that he was a citizen of one of the States or
Territories. It is consistent with this statement, that he was
not a citizen of any State. le may have been a citizen of a
Territory, and, if so, the requisite citizenship would not exist.
New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91. According to the decision
in Gibson v. Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, the difference of citizenship on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

which the right of removal depends must have existed at the
time when the Fuit was begun, as well as at the time of the
removal. And according to the uniform decisions of this court,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court fails, unless the necessary
citizenship affirmatively appears in the pleadings or elsewhere
in the record. Grace v. American Central Insurance Company, 109 U. S. 278, 283; JRoberlson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646.
It was error, therefore, in the Circuit Court to assume jurisdiction in the case, and not to remand it, on the motion of the
plaintiffs below.
It is true that the plaintiffs below, against whose objection
the error was committed, do not complain of being prejudiced
by it; and it seems to be an anomaly and a hardship that the
party at whose instance it was committed should be permitted
to derive an advantage from it; but the rule, springing from
the nature and limits of the judicial power of the United States,
is inflexible and without exception, which requires this court,
of its own motion, to deny its own jurisdiction, and, in the
exercise of its appellate power, that of all other courts of the
United States, in all cases where such jurisdiction does not
affirmatively appear in the record on which, in the exercise of
that power, it is called to act. On every writ of error or
appeal, the first and fundamental question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court, and then of the court from which the
record comes. This question the court is bound to ask and
answer for itself, even when not otherwise suggested, and
without respect to the relation of the parties to it. This rule
was adopted in Capron v. Van NXoorden, 2 Cranch, 126, decided
in 1804, where a judgment was reversed, on the application of
the party against whom it had been rendered in the Circuit
Court, for want of the allegation of his own citizenship, which
h6 ought to have made to establish the jurisdiction which he
had invoked. This case was cited with approval by Chief
Justice Marshall in Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112.
In Jackson v. Ashton, 8 Pet. 148, the court itself raised and
insisted on the point of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court ; and
in that case, it was expressly ruled, that because it did not
appear that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, this court, on

M. C. & L. M. RAILWAY CO. v. SWAN.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal, had no jurisdiction except for the purpose of reversing
the decree appealed from, on that ground. And in the most
recent utterance of this court upon the point in B6rs v. Preston,
ante, 252, it was said by Mr. Justice harlan: "In cases of
which the Circuit Courts may take cognizance only by reason
of the citizenship of the parties, this court, as its decisions
indicate, has, except under special circumstances, declined to
express any opinion upon the merits, on appeal or writ of error,
where the record does not affirmatively show jurisdiction in
the court below; this, because the courts of the Union, being
courts of limited jurisdiction, the presumption in every stage
of the cause is, that it is without their jurisdiction, unless the
contrary appears from the record." The reason of the rule, and
the necessity of its application, are stronger and more obvious,
when, as in the present case, the failure of the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court arises, not merely because the record omits
the averments necessary to its existence, but because it recites
facts which contradict it.
In the Dred Scott Case, 19 How. 393-400, it was decided
that a judgment of the Circuit Court, upon the sufficiency of a
plea in abatement denying its jurisdiction, was open for
review upon a writ of error sued out by the party in whose
favor the plea had been overruled. And in this view Mr.
Justice Curtis, in his dissenting opinion, concurred; and we
adopt from that opinion the following statement of the law on
the point : "It is true," he said, 19 How. 566, "as a general
rule, that the court will not allow a party to rely on anything
as cause for reversing a judgment, which was for his advantage.
In this, we follow an ancient rule of the common law. But so
careful was that law of the preservation of the course of its
courts, that it made an exception out of that general rule, and
allowed a party to assign for error that which was for his
advantage, if it were a departure by the court itself from its
settled course of procedure. The cases on this subject are
collected in Bac. Ab. Error 11, 4. And this court followed
this practice in Capron v. Van Noorden, 2 Cranch, 126, where
the plaintiff below procured the reversal of a judgment for the
defendant on the ground that the plaintiff's allegations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

citizenship had not shown jurisdiction. But it is not necessary
to determine whether the defendant can be allowed to assign
want of jurisdiction as an error in a judgment in his own
favor. The true question is, not what either of the parties
may be allowed to do, but whether this court will affirm or
reverse a judgment of the Circuit Court on the merits, when it
appears on the record, by a plea to the jurisdiction, that it is a
case to which the judicial power of the United States does not
extend. The course of the court is, where no motion is made
by either party, on its own motion, to reverse such a judgment
for want of jurisdiction, not only in cases where it is shown
negatively, by a plea to the jurisdiction, that jurisdiction does
not exist, but even when it does not appear affirmatively that
Peq ignot v. The Pennsylvania Railroad
it does exist.
Company, 16 flow. 104. It acts upon the principle that the
judicial power of the United States must not be exerted in a
case to which it does not extend, even if both parties desire to
have it exerted. Cutler v. Rae, 7 How. 729. I consider,
therefore, that when there was a plea to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court in a case brought here by a writ of error, the
first duty of this court is, sua sponte, if not moved to it by
either party, to examine the sufficiency of that plea, and thus
to take care that neither the Circuit Court nor this court shall
use the judicial power of the United States in a case to which
the Constitution and laws of the United States have not
extended that power."
This is precisely applicable to the present case, for the
motion of the plaintiffs below to remand the cause was equivalent to a special plea to the jurisdiction of the court; but the
doctrine applies equally in every case where the jurisdiction
does not appear from the record.
It was so applied in the case of Thited States v. I[hwkabee,
16 Wall. 414. There the United States had commenced proceedings in the Circuit Court, under the confiscation acts, to
condemn certain real estate, which had been sold by its owners,
the defendants in error, to the Confederate government. The
United States had, in fact, captured the property during the
flagrancy of war, it being an iron foundry and works used for

M. C. & L. M. RAILWAY CO. v. SWAN.
Opinion of the Court.

the manufacture of munitions of war, and had afterwards sold
it to Lyon. I-uckabee intervened as a claimant, and answered
the libel, setting up a claim of title in himself and associates.
Lyon also filed an answer, setting up his title, and was made a
co-plaintiff with the United States. A decree was made dismissing the libel, and confirming the title of Huckabee. The
United States and Lyon prosecuted a writ of error to reverse
this judgment. This court decided that the Circuit Court was
without jurisdiction of the subject matter, as it was not a case
contemplated by the confiscation acts, and that it could not be
treated as a private suit in equity between the claimants for
the determination of their conflicting titles, because the remedy
at law was adequate, and also because they were citizens of
the same State. It decided, therefore, that the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction to render any decree in the case upon the
merits of the controversy. In stating the conclusion of the
court, Mr. Justice Clifford, who delivered its opinion, said, p.
435: "Usually where a court has no jurisdiction of a case, the
correct practice is to dismiss the suit, but a different rule necessarily prevails in an appellate court in cases where the subordinate court was without jurisdiction and has given judgment
or decree for the plaintiff, or improperly decreed affirmative
relief to a claimant. In such a case, the judgment or decree
in the court below must be reversed, else the party which prevailed there would have the benefit of such judgment or decree,
though rendered by a court which bad no authority to hear
and determine the matter in controversy."
There, it will be observed, the plaintiffs in error were seeking to reverse on the merits an adverse decree, vestino title in
the opposing party, in a proceeding instituted by themselves.
The court reversed that decree to their advantage, for want of
the jurisdiction in the court below which they had invoked and
set in motion.
An analogous principle was acted on in Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, where a decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing a bill on the merits, was reversed because that court
had no jurisdiction, and a decree of dismissal without prejudice
directed; and in T/hompson v. Railroad Gomnpanies, 6 Wall.
VoL. cxr-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

134, where the question was one purely of procedure, whether
the remedy was at law or in equity, although, in that class of
cases, where the jurisdiction relates to the subject matter and
is administered by the same court, but in another form of proceeding, it would seem more reasonable that the objection
might be waived by the conduct of the parties. See, also,
fIfurt v. Ilollinisworth, 100 U. S.100. And in Williams v.
Notlawa, 104 U. S. 209, it was held to be the duty of the Circuit Court to execute the provisions of the 5th section of the
act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. pt. 3, p. 470, by dismissing a suit of its own motion, whenever it appeared that it did
not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within its jurisdiction, and equally so of this court,
when, on error or appeal, it appeared that the Circuit Court
had failed to do so, in a proper case, to reverse its judgment or
decree for that reason, and to remand the cause with direction
to dismiss the suit.
In Grace v. American Central Insurance Company, 109 U.
S.278, it is true that this court passed upon all the questions
in the case affecting its merits, although it reversed the judgment because the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not apparent; but it was thought convenient and proper to do so, in
that case, because the record itself made it probable that its
omission of the statements necessary to show jurisdiction was
inadvertent, and might be supplied for a future trial in the
same court. In the present case, however, the want of jurisdiction appears affirmatively from the record.
For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to remand
the same to the Court of Common Pleas of Fulton County,
Ohio.
It remains, however, to dispose of the question of costs.
It is clear that the plaintiffs in error, having wrongfully
caused the removal of the cause from the State court, ought to
pay the costs incurred in the Circuit Court, and there is no
want of power in the court to award a judgment against them
to that effect. By see. 5 of the act of March 3d, 1875, the
Circuit Court is directed, in remanding a cause, to "make such

M. C. & L. M. RAILWAY CO. v. SWAN
Opinion of the Court.

order as to costs as shall be just;" and the bond given by the
removing party under see. 3 is a bond to pay "all costs that
may be awarded by the said Circuit Court, if said court shall
hold that such suit was wrongfully or improperly removed
thereto." These provisions were manifestly designed to avoid
the application of the general rule, which, in cases where the
suit failed for want of jurisdiction, denied the authority of the
court to award judgment against the losing party, even for
costs.
XJelver v. Wattles, 9 Wheat. 650; iw 2ayor v.
Cooper, 6 Wall. 247.
As to costs in this court, the question is not covered by any
statutory provision, and must be settled on other grounds.
Ordinarily, by the long established practice and universally
recognized rule of the common law, in actions at law, the prevailing party is entitled to recover a judgment for costs, the
exception being that where there is no jurisdiction in the court
to determine the litigation, the cause must be dismissed for
that reason, and, as the court can render no judgment for or
against either party, it cannot render a judgment even for costs.
Nevertheless there is a judgment or final order in the cause
dismissing it for want of jurisdiction. Accordingly, in linchester v. Jackson, 3 Cranch, 514, costs were allowed where a
writ of error was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the parties
not appearing upon the record to be citizens of different States,
the plaintiff in error being plaintiff below. But in respect to
that case, it is to be observed, that the want of jurisdiction
disclosed by the record was that of the Circuit Court, and that
there was jurisdiction in this court to consider and determine the
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and to reverse
its judgment, bad it been the other way, for want of jurisdiction. And the judgment for costs in that case is justified on
that ground, and seems to have been rendered against the
plaintiff in error, because he was the losing party in the sense
of having ineffectually invoked the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. And this is just what has taken place in the present
suit. II ere the plaintiffs in error wrongfully removed the cause
to the Circuit Court. They seek by a writ of error to this
court to reverse upon the merits the judgment rendered

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

against them, and bring here the whole record. That discloses
the want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court to render any
judgment, and this court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, reverses the judgment for that reason alone, its jurisdiction
extending no. further. It could not dismiss the writ of error
for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, for that would be
to give effect to such want of jurisdiction; and this court has
jurisdiction of the writ of error to reverse the judgment on
that ground. Assessor v. O8o,nes, 9 Wall. 567-575.
In 2ontalet v. .iarray, 4 Cranch, 46, the judgment was
reversed, because it did not appear from the record that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction, and with costs, following 11inc/hester v. Jackson, ubi sul ra, and thereupon, it is stated in the
report, that, "on the last day of the term, the court gave the
following general directions to the clerk: that in cases of
reversal, costs do not go of course, but in all cases of affirmance they do; and that when a judgment is reversed for want
of jurisdiction, it must be without costs." No formal rule of
the court covers the case of a reversal on that ground, although
paragraph 3 of Rule 24, which provides, that in "cases of reversal of any judgment or decree in this court, costs shall be
allowed to the plaintiff in error or appellant, unless otherwise.
ordered by the court," leaves room for the exercise of discretion
in its application to such cases. The whole subject was very
much discussed by Mr. Justice Woodbury in the case of BurnAam v. Pangeley, 2 Woodb. & Min. 417-424-, where he collects
a large number of authorities on the subject. In the present
case, the writ of error is not dismissed for want of jurisdiction
in this court; on the contrary, the jurisdiction of the court is
exercised in reversing the judgment for want of jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court; and although, in a formal and nominal
sense the plaintiffs in error prevail in obtaining a reversal of
a judgment against them, the cause of that reversal is their
own fault in invoking a jurisdiction to which they had no
right to resort, and its effect is, to defeat the entire proceeding
which they originated and have prosecuted. In a true and
proper sense, the plaintiffs in error are the losing and not the
prevailing party, and this court having jurisdiction upon their

HORNBUCKLE v. STAFFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of error so to determine, and in that determination being
compelled to reverse the judgment, of which on other grounds
they complain, although denying their right to be heard for
that purpose, has jurisdiction, also, in order to give effect to its
judgment upon the whole case against them, to do what justice
and right seem to require, by awarding judgment against them
for the costs that have accrued in this court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly reversed,
with costs against the plaintiffs in error, and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to render a judgment against them for costs in that court, and to remand the
cause to the Court of Common Pleas of Fulton County, Ohio;
and
It is so ordered.

IIORNBUCKLE & Another v. STAFFORD.
APPEAL FRO-M THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Submitted April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Error-Evidence.
A decree will not be reversed for error in improperly excluding evidence when
it is clear that the exclusion worked no prejudice to the excepting party.

ilfr. -Luther11 Pike submitted the case for plaintiff in error
on his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Stafford, the appellee, against
ITornbuckle and Marshall, the appellants, to restrain them from
diverting from his ditch a certain quantity of water to which
he claimed to be entitled. The complaint alleged that the
appellee was entitled to such quantity of the waters of Avalanche Creek, or Gulch as it is sometimes called in the record, in
the county of Meagher and Territory of Montana, as would
amount to thirty-five inches miner's measurement, at any point

