OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

right of action against the said companies as stated in this
opinion.
To the third: That this suit may be maintained upon the
record presented therein, apart from the other policy holders of
the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company.
It follows that
Tle decree of the ircuit Court must be reversed, and te
cause remandedforfurtherproceedingsin accordance with
this opinion ; and it is so ordered.

RECTOR v. GIBBON & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Hot Springs Jeservation-PublicLands-Estoppel.
The powers conferred upon the commissioners appointed under the "Act in
relation to the Hot Springs Reservation in the State of Arkansas" passed
March 3d, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, were analogous to those conferred upon the
Receiver and Register of the Land Office in cases of conflicting claims to
pre-emption.
The aim of Congress in statutes relieving parties from the consequences of defects in title has been to protect bona fide settlers, and not intruders upon
the original settlers, seeking by violence, or fraud, or breach of contract to
appropriate the benefit of their labor. The legislation in this respect and
the decisions of this court upon it reviewed.
The provision in ยง 5 of the act of March 3d, 1877, that the commissioners shall
"finally determine the right of each claimant or occupant," relates to the
legal title which under the act is to pass from the United States ; but it
does not preclude a court of equity, after issue of a patent in accordance
with the determination of the commissioners, from inquiring whether the
legal title from the United States is not equitably subject to a trust in favor
of other parties. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, cited and followed.
After the passage of the act of June 11th, 1870, 16 Stat. 149, referring the title
in the Hot Springs Reservation to the Court of Claims, but before the adjudications under it, A, who had been in possession of a tract in the reser.
vation for nearly forty years, leased it to B, with a covenant from B to surrender at the expiration of the term. In the proceedings under that act A's
title was adjudged invalid. Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S. 698. Under the

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Statement of Facts.
act of March 3d, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, A and one claiming by assignment
from B appeared before the commissioners, each claiming the right to
receive the certificate for the ]eased tract. The commissioners adjudged
it to B's assignee, and a patent issued accordingly. Field, That under
the circumstances the assignee of B, the lessee, was estopped in equity
from setting up the subsequently acquired legal title against A, the lessor.

This was a suit in equity commenced in Garland Circuit
Court in Arkansas, and removed under the Removal Act to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Arkansas. The bill alleged that the plaintiff went into possession, in 1839, of a tract of land within the Hot Springs Reservation in Arkansas, under color of title derived from the location
of a New Madrid claim, and made valuable improvements on
it, and continued in possession until dispossessed in 1876 by the
receiver appointed by the Court of Claims; that in 1873, a
lease was made by his son, as his trustee, to Gibbon and Kirkpatrick, parties defendant, the lessees covenanting to make certain improvements thereon, which were to become the lessor's
property on the expiration of the term on payment of a part of
the cost, and to pay an agreed rent and to deliver up the
premises on the expiration of the term; that in 1877, Gibbon
and Kirkpatrick transferred the lease to one Ballantine, who
died leaving his children, the other parties defendant, as heirs;
that in the proceedings before the commissioners under the act
of March 3d, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, the plaintiff appeared and
filed a claim to purchase the tract, and the heirs of Ballantine
did the same, and that the commissioners awarded the right to
the heirs. There were other allegations not material in the
issues decided in this case. The bill was demurred to because
"plaintiff claims the property described in the complaint, on the
ground that he was an occupant and owner of improvements
thereon, when that question, as appears, was finally decided by
the Hot Springs commissioners under the act of Congress of
March 3d, 1877."
Section 5 of that act is as follows:
"SEC. 5. That it shall be the duty of said commissioners to
show by metes and bounds on the map herein provided for, the
parcels or tracts of lands claimed by reason of improvements made

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

thereon, or occupied, by each and every such claimant and occupant on said reservation ; to hear any and all proof offered by
such claimants and occupants and the United States in respect to
said lands and in respect to the improvements thereon; and to
finally determine the right of each claimant or occupant to purchase the same, or any portion thereof, at the appraised value,
which shall be fixed by said commissioners : Provided,however,
That such claimants and occupants shall file their claims, under
the provisions of this act, before said commissioners within six
calendar months after the first sitting of the said board of commissioners, or their claims shall be forever barred; and no claim
shall be considered which has accrued since the twenty-fourth day
of April, eighteen hundred and seventy-six."

The demurrer was sustained.

The plaintiff appealed.

Xr. A. 11 Garland (-2Wr. U. X. Rose and Mr.
Ion were with him) for appellant.
Ar. Sol. F. Clark and Kr. Samuel I.
pellees.

KT. Corny-

Williams for ap-

MR. JUSTIcE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought by the plaintiff to charge the
heirs-at-law of David Ballantine, as trustees of certain real
property within.th6 Hot Springs Reservation in the State of
Arkansas, and compel them to convey it to him. The question
for determination is whether under the act of Congress of
March 3d, 1877, providing for the sale of part of the reservation, they were entitled to purchase the property in preference
to him.
From the protracted litigation to which it has given rise, the
I-Iot Springs Reservation is famous in the history of land titles
of the country. Early in the present century the medicinal
qualities of those springs were discovered, and from that fact
the adjacent lands had an exceptional value. They were
claimed by different individuals, some portions under a New
Madrid certificate, and some portions under pre-emption settlements. The plaintiff entered upon the parcels in controversy
as early as 1839, under an attempted location of a New Madrid

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

certificate made in 1820, and he remained in their exclusive
possession until April 24th, 1876. They were then taken in
charge by a receiver appointed by the Court of Claims under
an act passed in 1870, to enable persons claiming title, either
legal or equitable, to the whole or to any part of the four
sections of land constituting the reservation, to bring suit in
that court for the determination of their title as against the
United States. Four suits were brought, one of them by the
plaintiff, and they resulted in an adjudication that the title was
in the United States, and that the several claims were invalid.
f[ot 8S&pings Case, 92 U. S. 698. The decision against him
was regarded as a special hardship, both from his long possession, and from the fact that his failure to obtain a title was
occasioned by the neglect of the public officer, under whose
direction the land was surveyed, to return the survey and a
plat of the lobation to the recorder of land titles for the Territory
of Missouri. Until such return the location under the New
Madrid certificate was incomplete, and the lands were not appropriated so as to exclude the operation of the act of April 20th,
1832, by which the four sections were reserved for the future
disposal of the United States. This court, in rejecting all the
claims, observed that whatever hardship might thereby ensue
would, no doubt, be taken into consideration by the legislative
department in the future disposition of the lands. Accordingly,
and, it is believed, upon this suggestion, Congress passed the
act of March 3d, 1877. It provided for the appointment by
the President, of "three discreet, competent, and disinterested
persons" to constitute a board of commissioners, and imposed
upon them various duties. Among other things, it required
them, under the direction and subject to the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, to designate a tract sufficiently large
to include all the hot or warm springs on the land, embracing
what is known as the Hot Springs Mountain, which tract was
declared to be reserved from sale; and to lay out the residue
of the land into convenient squares, blocks, lots, avenues,
streets, and alleys, the lines of which were to correspond with
existing lines of occupants of the reservation as near as might
be consistent with the interests of the United States. It also

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

provided that they should, by a map prepared for that purpose,
show the metes and bounds of the parcels or tracts claimed by
reason of improvements thereon, or occupied on the reservation;
should hear proofs offered by claimants and occupants in respect
to the lands and improvements, and "finally determine the
right of each claimant or occupant to purchase the same, or
any portion thereof, at the appraised value fixed by the commissioners." It declared that claimants and occupants should
file their claims before the commissioners within six months
after the first session of the board, or that their claims should
be barred ; and that no claim should be considered which had
accrued after the 24th of April, 1876. It also made it the duty
of the commissioners to file in the office of the Secretary of the
Interior the map and survey, with the boundary lines of each
claim clearly marked thereon, and with each division and subdivision traced and nmnbered, accompanied by a schedule
showing the name of the claimant of each lot or parcel of
land with its appraised value; and also all the evidence taken
by them "respecting the claimant's possessory right of occupation" to any portion of the reservation, and their findings in
each case, with their appraisal of the value of each tract and of
the improvements thereon; and to issue a certificate to each
claimant setting forth the amount of land the holder was entitled to purchase, and its valuation, and also the character and
valuation of the improvements. 19 Stat. 377.
The act made it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior,
within thirty days after the commissioners had filed their
report and map, to instruct the land officers of Little Rock
land district to allow the lands to be entered, and to cause a
patent to be issued therefor.
Within the required time, the plaintiff filed his claim before
the commiissioners, and presented proof showing his long continued occupation of the land in controversy, and the improvements he had made thereon. Whilst it was in his occupation,
on the 21st of February, 1873, he, through his son, who held
the property as trustee to pay certain debts, leased it to the defendants Gibbon and Kirkpatrick, for the purpose of a hotel,
bath-house and out-houses, at an annual rent of $500, and

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

$1,500 additional for water privileges, for the term of three
years and three months, beginning on that day and ending on
the 21st of May, 1876. The lease provided that the hotel and
other improvements should not cost more than $12,000; that at
the end of the term the lessor should have the right to take the
improvements by paying two-thirds of their first cost, and
should take the furniture in the hotel and bath-house by paying its actual value, so that the same should not exceed $8,000;
that, if he should not pay these amounts at the end of the term,
the lease should be extended on the same conditions until he
should make the payments, giving ninety days' notice of his
intention to terminate the lease; that upon its termination as
specified the lessees should deliver to him, or to his successors
in office, or grantees, or to "whomsoever at that time in law
may have the right to control the trust property," all the lands
leased to them, "promptly without failure and free from let or
hindrance of any kind whatever, together with all buildings,
out-houses, and improvements" that might be erected on the
premises. The terms "to whomsoever at that time in law may
have the right to control the trust property" refer to persons
lawfully controlling the property under authority derived from
the plaintiff. The lessor then held the property as trustee, and
by the covenant, when the trust should be discharged, the right
of control would revert to him. They were not intended to
authorize a delivery under any circumstances to parties claiming adversely.
Soon after the lease was executed the trust was discharged
by the payment of the debts, and the property and possession
reverted to the plaintiff. Before the lease he had made improvements of the value of at least $1,000 in excavations,
grading, and building a wall to protect the land from the
action of the water of the Hot Springs Creek, and had erected
valuable buildings. After the lease a hotel was built on the
premises, and before the end of the term the parties agreed that
the lease should be continued until some time in the future,
when it might be terminated by written notice as provided in
the instrument.
In the year 1877 the lessees sold and transferred all their in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

terest in the premises to one David Ballantine, he knowing at
the time the terms and conditions of the lease. While the lessees were in possession, and before their transfer, the plaintiff
gave them notice of his desire to terminate the lease, and requested them to furnish him with a list of the furniture coming
within its provisions, which they promised to do, but never did.
ie never could get from them the information required for
settlement, and therefore none was ever made, though he was
ready and willing and frequently offered to pay all the sums
that might be due to them under the terms of the lease, which
offer they, under various pretences, always declined. After
entering upon the premises under the transfer, Ballantine died,
being at the time a resident of Illinois, leaving surviving him certain of the defendants who are named in the bill of complaint as
his heirs-at-law. By the survey of the commissioners a part of
the premises was laid off and designated as lots five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten and eleven in block eighty-nine in the town of
Iot Springs, and the residue thereof, on which the hotel and
some of the out-buildings were erected, was laid off into a street.
They were appraised at the value of $10,000, and condemned,
and were then torn down and destroyed. A certificate of their
condemnation and value was given to the heirs of Ballantine.
As already mentioned, the plaintiff filed his claim to purchase
the lots before the commissioners. The heirs of Ballantine also
filed a like claim, and to them was awarded the right to purchase, although it was shown that their ancestor had acquired
his possession under the lease made to Gibbon and Kirkpatrick.
For these reasons-that the heirs never had any other right or
title to the lands, or to their possession except under the lease,
containing covenants to restore the property and possession to
the lessor or to his successor in title on its termination-the
plaintiff prays that they be adjudged to hold the lands as
trustees for his use and benefit, and be decreed to convey
them to him, on his paying the money advanced in the purchase, and that he be allowed reasonable rent for the occupancy of the lands.
The bill of complaint sets forth the material facts which we
have stated, and a demurrer to it was sustained, the court hold-

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing that the decision of the commissioners awarding to the
heirs of Ballantine the right to purchase was a final adjudication
and conclusive upon the parties; and even if not conclusive was
correct. The ruling in both particulars the plaintiff insists was
erroneous.
It is very clear that the heirs of Ballantine are not parties
for whose benefit the act of 1877 was passed. ie only acquired
his claim to the property during that year by transfer front the
original lessees of their leasehold interest. He could not assert
any independent claim acquired after April 24th, 1876. The act
in terms declares that no claim to purchase any portion of the
reservation accruing after that date, shall be considered by
the commissioners. As already mentioned, it followed our
decision that certain persons, claimants and occupants of portions of the reservation, were not entitled to the land, and
was designed to confer upon them and others in like position
a title to such portions as they had occupied or improved,
after first setting aside and reserving from sale a tract sufficiently large to include the Hot Springs and land immediately adjacent. Those parties were not trespassers, in the
offensive meaning of that term, nor intentional invaders of the
rights of the United States. They entered upon the land in
the confident belief that they were authorized to do so. The
plaintiff relied upon a New Madrid certificate which was located upon the lands in controversy as far back as 1820, and
his failure to secure the title arose, as already stated, from the
omission of the public surveyor to return the survey and a plat
of them to the recorder of land titles before the act of 1832
took effect and withdrew the lands from appropriation. The
government did not treat him and the other claimants as wanton intruders on the public domain, for then it might have
ejected them by force. Instead of that it authorized proceedings for a judicial ascertainment of the merits of their respective
claims. The act of 1877 embraces, therefore, under the designation of claimants and occupants, those who had made improvements, or claimed possession under an assertion of title or
a right of pre-emption by reason of their location or settlement.
It was for their benefit that the act was passed, in order that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

they should not entirely forfeit their claims from location or
settlement, and their improvements, but should have, except as to
the portions reserved, the right of purchase. Parties succeeding,
by operation of law or by conveyance, to the possession of such
claimants and occupants, would succeed also to their rights.
But lessees under a claimant or occupant, holding the property
for him, and bound by their stipulation to surrender it on the
termination of their lease, stand in no position to claim an adverse and paramount right of purchase. Their possession is in
law his possession. The contract of lease implies not only a
recognition of his title but a promise to surrender the possession
to him on the termination of the lease. They, therefore, whilst
retaining possession, are estopped to deny his rights. Blig/h's
Lessee v. Rochiester, 7 Wheat. 533.
This rule extends to every person who enters under lessees
with knowledge of the terms of the lease, whether by operation
of law or by purchase and assignment. The lessees in this case,
and those deriving their interest under them, could, therefore,
claim nothing against the plaintiff by virtue either of their
possession, for it was in law his possession, or of their improvements, for they were in law his improvements, and entitled him
to all the benefits they conferred, whether by pre-emption or
otherwise. Whatever the lessees and those under them did by
way of improvement on the leased premises inured to his
benefit as absolutely and effectually as though done by himself.
Whenever Congress has relieved parties from the consequences of defects in their title, its aim has been to protect
those who, in good faith, settled upon public land and made
improvements thereon; and not those who by violence or fraudor breaches of contract intruded upon the possessions of original
settlers and endeavored to appropriate the benefit of their
labors. There has been in this respect in the whole legislation
of the country a consistent observance of the rules of natural
right and justice. There was a time, in the early periods of
the country, when a party who settled in advance of the public
surveys was regarded as a trespasser, to be summarily and
roughly ejected. But all this has been changed within the last
half century. With the acquisition of new territory, new fields

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

of enterprise have been opened, population has spread over the
public lands, villages and towns have sprung up on them, and
all the industries and institutions of a civilized and prosperous
people have been established, with the church and school-house
by their side, before the surveyor with his quadrant and line
appeared.
With absolute confidence these pioneers have relied upon the
justice of their government, and they have never been disappointed. The most striking illustrations of this confidence,
and of the just action of the government, are found in the settlement of Oregon and California. Before any laws of the United
States had been extended to Oregon, enterprising men crossed
the plains and took possession of its fertile fields. They organized a provisional government embracing guaranties of all
private rights. They passed laws under which persons and
property were protected and justice administered with as much
care and wisdom as in old communities. They prescribed
regulations for the possession and occupation of land among
themselves, and when time laws of the United States were extended over the country those regulations were respected, and
the rights acquired under them recognized and enforced.
On this subject Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court in
Ia mn v. Davenport, said of the settlement upon the land
which now embraces the town of Portland: "It is sulicient
here to say that several years before that [the donation]
act was passed, and before any act of Congress existed by
which title to the land could be acquired, settlement on and
cultivation of a large tract of land, which includes the lots in
controversy, had been made, and a town laid off into lots, and
lots sold, and that these are a part of the present city of Portland. Of course no legal title vested in any one by these proceedings, for that remained in the United States; all of which
was well known and undisputed. But it was equally well
known that those possessory rights and improvements placed
on the soil were, by the policy of the government, generally
protected, so far at least as to give priority of the right to
purchase whenever the land was offered for sale, and when no
special reason existed to the contrary. And though these

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

rights or claims rested on no statute, or any positive promise,
the general recognition of them in the end by the government,
and its disposition to protect the meritorious actual settlers,
who were the pioneers of emigration in the new territories,
gave a decided and well understood value to these claims.
They were all subject to bargain and sale, and as among the
parties to such contracts they were valid. The right of the
United States to dispose of her own property is undisputed, and
to make rules by which the lands of the government may be
sold or given away is acknowledged; but subject to these well
known principles, parties in possession of the soil might make
valid contracts, even concerning the title, predicated upon the
hypothesis that they might thereafter lawfully acquire the
title, except in cases when Congress had imposed restrictions on
such contracts."
18 Wall. 307, 313, 314.
So in California the discovery of the precious metals was followed, as is well known, by a large immigration to the State
which increased her population in a few years to several hundred
thousand. The majority of the immigrants at first found their
way into the mineral regions and became seekers of gold. But
still a very large number settled upon the farming lands, erected
houses thereon, planted vineyards and orchards, and subjected
portions to cultivation. Much of this was in advance of the
public surveys, and even before the passage of an act of Congress opening the agricultural lands to settlement, and providing for the sale of the mineral lands. Yet the progress of the
country was not thereby stayed. The first appropriator of
mineral lands within certain limits, or the first settler on agricultural lands to the extent prescribed by the pre-emption laws
in force in other States, was recognized everywhere as having
a better right than others to the claim appropriated, or to the
land settled upon. In all controversies, except as against the
government, he was regarded as the original owner from whom
title was to be traced. And when the government extended
its surveys over the agricultural lands it gave the privilege of
purchasing-the pre-emption right-to the first settler, requiring only that his possession should be continued, accompanied
with improvement. And when it allowed the mineral lands

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

to be sold, it was to the original appropriator, or to those deriving their claim from him, that title was given. In no instance in the legislation of the country have the claims of an
intruder upon the prior possession of others, or in disregard of
their rights, been sustained. Laborers occupying mining claims,
or agricultural lands, whilst working for the first appropriator
or settler, acquired no pre-emptive rights over him to such
claims or lands; nor did any permissive occupation under him,
as tenant or otherwise, impair his rights. To construe the act
of 187 so as to give to lessees a better right than their landlord to purchase the land of which he had been in occupation
more than a third of a century, would require us to attribute
to Congress not only the intention to do him flagrant injustice,
but to depart from its previous uniform and long settled policy
to protect the pioneer and original settler upon the public
domain.
In the dealing of the government with occupants of lots in
towns built upon the public lands, we have a further illustration of the good faith which is exacted from parties seeking
the title of the United States. The Town Site Act of Congress of May 23d, 1844, provides that whenever any portion
of the surveyed public lands has been settled upon and occupied as a town site, it shall be lawful, if the town be incorporated, for the corporate authorities, and if not incorporated, for the judge of the County Court, to enter at the proper
land office, and at the minimmn price, such land "in trust for
the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according
to their respective interests; the execution of which trust as to
the disposal of the lots in such town, and the proceeds of the
sale thereof, to be conducted under such rules and regulations
as may be prescribed by the legislative authority of the State
or Territory in which the same is situated." 5 Stat. 657.
The act of Congress of March 3d, 1853, extended the provisions of this act, and, with certain exceptions, made the whole
of the public lands, not being mineral, occupied as towns or
villages, subject to like entry, whether settled upon before. or
after they were surveyed.
In Ricks v. Reed, decided in 1862, the proper construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act was a question before the Supreme Court of California, and the court said: "It is true the entry of the town
lands by the corporate authorities or county judge is, under
the act of Congress, 'in trust for the several use and benefit
of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests;' but this provision does not establish that it was the
intention of Congress to give the benefits of the entry to mere
temporary occupants of particular tracts at the date of the
entry, without reference to the character of their occupancy,
and thereby, in many instances, deprive the original bona ide
settlers of the premises and improvements in favor of those
who had, by force or otherwise, intruded upon their settlement.
Were such the effect of the provision in question, the trespasser
of yesterday, or the tenant of to-day, would often be in a better
position than the parties who, by their previous occupation and
industry, had built up the town and made the property valuable. We do not think Congress could have contemplated that
results of this nature should follow from its legislation, but, on
the contrary, that it intended that the original and bonca fide
occupants should be the recipients of the benefits of the entry to
the extent, at least, of their interest-that is, of their actual
occupancy and improvements." 19 Cal. 551, 575.
The provision of the act that the commissioners "shall finally
determine the right of each claimant or occupant" to purchase
the land or a portion of it, does not necessarily withdraw that
determination from the consideration of the court. It is final
so far as the land department is concerned. By the general
law all proceedings for the alienation of the public lands, from
the incipient steps to a patent, are placed under the supervision
of that department. The provision in question takes the action
of the board, in the particulars mentioned, from that supervision. In effect it substitutes the board in the place of the
ordinary land officers, with only a modification of duties and
powers adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the case. It
does not withdraw its decisions fom the correcting power of
the. court when the board has miscontrued the statute, and
thus defeated its manifest purpose, and made its benefits inure
to those who were never in the contemplation of Congress,

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

and therefore were not intended to be the recipients of its
bounty.
The powers of the commissioners under the act of 1877 are
not essentially different from those of the receiver and register
of the land office in cases of conflicting claims to pre-emption.
The latter officers must hear the evidence of parties, and decide
as to which has the better right to the patent certificate. The
judicial character of their investigation and determination is as
great and important as that of the commissioners under the
act of 1877. The acts done in both cases relate merely to the
sale of public lands; and it is difficult to perceive any reason
why, when private rights are invaded, the door should be
closed against relief in the courts of the country in the one
case more than in the other.
The statute, in requiring the commissioners to "finally determine the right of each claimant or occupant to purchase" parts
of the reservation, recognizes the existence of rights as between
different claimants, though equally without title so far as the
government is concerned. But in their decision they have
ignored the universally acknowedged right as between landlord and tenants, giving to the latter what could by no possibility belong to them in the relation which they occupied.
Had Congress intended to invest the commissioners with absolute discretion in awarding the privilege of pre-emption of the
several parcels of land, its language would have been different;
it would not have required an examination of witnesses, a
regard for existing boundaries, and a determination of rights.
Everything in the statute, from the beginning to the end, indicates an intent that, in awarding the right of pre-emption, the
commissioners should be governed, not by an arbitrary discretion, but by the existence of claims by possession, and a consideration of the mutual rights of parties as between one
another. They had no right to disregard the very principle on
which their .appointment was based.
On matters depending upon conflicting evidence as to the
extent of occupation and the value of improvements, and many
other matters, the action of the commissioners is undoubtedly
final; but upon the construction of the law, and particularly
voL. cxI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the parties for whose benefit it is designed, it is subject,
equally with all local boards of limited jurisdiction, to have its
conclusions, if erroneous, reviewed and corrected by the judicial
tribunals; at least the equities of third parties arising from
contracts or fiduciary relations between them and the person
to whom the commissioners may adjudge the right to purchase, are not concluded by their action. This question was
very fully and thoughtfully considered in Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72. In that case the direct question was as to the
effect to be given to the tenth section of the act of June
12th, 1858, which declared that appeals in bases of contest
between different settlers for the right of pre-emption should
thereafter be decided by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, "whose decision shall be final unless appeal
therefrom be taken to the Secretary of the Interior." It
was held that the finality there declared bad reference only
to the supervisory action of the land department; that after
the title had passed from the government, and the question
had become one of private right, the jurisdiction of courts
of equity might be invoked to ascertain if the patentees
did not hold in trust for other parties; and if it appeared
that the party claiming the equity bad established his right
to the land upon a true construction of the acts of Congress, and by an erroneous construction the patent had been
issued to another, the court would correct the mistake. In the
opinion Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court, referred to
the general doctrine that when a special tribunal has authority
to hear and determine certain matters arising in the course of
its duties, its decision within the scope of its authority is conclusive upon all others, and said:
"That the action of the land office in issuing a patent for
any of the public lands, subject to sale by pre-emption or otherwise, is conclusive of the legal title, must be admitted under
the principle above stated; and in all courts, and in all forms
of judicial proceedings, where this title must control, either by
reason of the limited powers of the court, or the essential character of the proceeding, no inquiry can be permitted into the
circumstances under which it was obtained. On the other

RECTOR v. GIBBON.
Opinion of the Court.

hand, there has always existed in the courts of equity the power
in certain classes of cases to inquire into and correct mistakes,
injustice and wrong, in both judicial and executive action, however solemn the form which the result of that action may
assume, when it invades private rights; and by virtue of this
power the final judgments of courts of law have been annulled
or modified, and patents and other important instruments issuing from the crown, or other executive branch of the government, have been corrected or declared void, or other relief
granted. No reason is perceived why the action of the land
office should constitute an exception to this principle. In
dealing with the public domain under the system of laws
enacted by Congress for their management and sale, that tribunal decides upon private rights of great value, and very often,
from the nature of its functions, this is by a proceeding essentially exparte, and peculiarly liable to the influence of frauds,
false swearing and mistakes. These are among the most
ancient and well-established grounds of the special jurisdiction
of courts of equity just referred to, and the necessity and value
of that jurisdiction are nowhere better exemplified than in its
application to cases arising in the land office."
This case is a leading one in this branch of the law, and has
been uniformly followed. The decision aptly expresses the
settled doctrine of this court with reference to the action of
officers of the land department, that when the legal title has
passed from the United States to one party, when in equity,
and in good conscience, and by the laws of Congress it ought
to go to another, a court of equity will convert the holder into
a trustee of the true owner, and compel him to convey the
legal title. This doctrine extends to the action of all officers
having charge of proceedings for the alienation of any
portion of the public domain. The parties actually entitled
under the law cannot, because of its misconstruction by those
officers, be deprived of their rights. Townsend v. Greeley, 5
Wall. 326, 335; carpe)tier v. Montgomery, 13 Id. 480, 496;
ShIepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; 2foore v. R6obbins, 96 U. S.
530; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Smelling Company v.
Afemp, Id. 636.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, Harlan, Woods, Blatchford, JJ.

The bill is open to the objection that it does not allege that

the heirs of Ballantine have acted upon the award, and purchased the lands in controversy; but their counsel makes no
point upon this omission, and admits that they have in fact
purchased.
It follows from the views expressed that
The decree of the court below must be reversed and the cause
remanded with instruetion8 to overrule the demurrer and to
takefurther proceedings in accordance with this opinion,
the plaintff to have leave to amend his bill and the defendants to answer.
MR. CHmIE JUSTICE WAITE, with whom concurred IIARLAW,
WOODs, and BLATeUTFORD, JJ., dissenting.
I am unable to agree to this judgment. In my opinion the
act of March 3d, 1877, granted a new right to the occupants
of the Hot Springs Reservation, and provided a special tribunal
for the settlement of all controversies between conflicting claimants. The right and the remedy were created by the same
statute, and, consequently, the remedy thus specially provided
was exclusive of all others. No provision was made for a
review of the decisions of the tribunal. Its determination,
therefore, of all questions arising under the jurisdiction must
necessarily be conclusive, and not open to attack collaterally.
It seems to me there is a very broad distinction between this
case and that of Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, and others of
that class. Here a special tribunal has been created for a
special purpose. It has been clothed with power to compel the
attendance of witnesses "and to finally determine the right of
each claimant or occupant to purchase" from the United
States, under the provisions of the act of Congress, the ground
he occupies or claims. The duties of the tribunal are judicial
in their character, and their decisions evidently intended to be
binding on the parties. The question now is not whether, if
Rector had kept away from the tribunal and Gibbon had got a
title under his occupancy, he could be charged as trustee for
Rector on account of his tenancy, but whether, having appeared
before the tribunal and been beaten in a contest with Gibbon,

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 293
Statement of Facts.

on that identical question, Rector can in this suit correct the
errors of the tribunal in its decision. I think he cannot. If he
can, it is difficult to see why all the decisions of the tribunal
are not open to revision by the courts.
I am authorized to say that Justices JIARLAN, WOODS, and
B3LATCHFORD concur with me in this opinion.

COCITRANE & Others v. ]3ADTSCHE ANILIN & SODA
FABRIK.
APPEAL FROM TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 26th, 27th, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Patent.
If the claim of reissued letters patent No. 4321, Division B, granted to Charles
Graebe and Charles Liebermann, April 4th, 1871, for an " improvement in
dyes or coloring matter from anthracine " (the original patent, No. 95,465,
having been granted to them October 5th, 1869), namely : " Artificial
alizarine, produced from anthracine or its derivatives by either of the
methods herein described, or by any other method which will produce a
like result," is construed so broadly as to cover a dye-stuff, imported from
Europe, made by a process not shown to be the same as that described in
No. 4321, and containing large proportions of coloring matters not shown
to be found to any practically useful extent in the alizarine of the process
of No. 4321, sueh as isopurpurine or anthrapurpurine, it is wider in its
scope than the original actual invention of the patentees, and wider than
anything indicated in the specification of the original patent. If the claim
is to be construed so as to cover only the product which the process described in it will produce, it does not cover a different product, which cannot be practically produced by that process.

This was a suit in equity for the alleged infringement of a
patent for improvement in dyes from anthracine. The nature
of the invention, the extent of the claims, and the facts which
went to show the infringement or to affect the validity of the
patent are fully brought out in the opinion of the court, from
the large mass of testimony in the record. Judgment below
sustaining the validity of the patent, from which the alleged
infringers appealed.

