LAMMON v. FEUSIER.
Statement of Facts.

the coupons which were more than five years past due when
the first suit was commenced, because, under section 17 of the
Code of Civil Procedure of Nebraska, the disability of a
married woman, from whom the plaintiff purchased the bonds,
intervened for a sufficient time, between their date and such
purchase by him, to prevent what would otherwise be the bar
of the statute. Without considering that question, it is sufficient to say, that the facts on which it could be raised are not
admitted in the pleadings or specially found by the court, and
that the general finding for the defendant on the causes of
action on coupons which were more than five years past due
when the actions were brought, and the absence of any exception by the plaintiff to any ruling of the court in regard to the
question, preclude any adjudication here upon it.
Tle fifth question certeied is answered in the afflrmative, and
tmejudgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

LAMMON & Others v. FEUSIER & Others.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

TIHE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Submitted January 10th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Bond-Officer of the Court-Surety.
The taking, by a marshal of the United States, upon a writ of attachment on
mesne process against one person, of the goods of another, is a breach of
the condition of his official bond, for which his sureties are liable.

The original action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nevada, by Henry Feusier, a
citizen of California, against George I. Lammon and three
other persons, citizens of Nevada, upon a bond given by
Lammon, the marshal of the United States for that district, as
principal, and by the other defendants as his sureties, and conditioned that Lainmon, "by himself and by his deputies, shall
faithfully perform all the duties of the said office of marshal."
VOL. CXI-2

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

It was alleged in the declaration and found by the court
(trial by jury having been duly waived) that Lammon, while
marshal, and while the bond was in force, having in his hands
a writ of attachment on mesne process against the property of
one E. D. Feusier, levied it upon the goods of the plaintiff, a
stranger to the writ. On the question of law, whether the
taking of the plaintiff's property upon a writ of attachment
against another person constituted a breach of official duty on
Lammon's part for which his sureties were liable, the Circuit
Judge and the District Judge were opposed in opinion, and so
certified. The plaintiff having died pending the suit, final
judgment was rendered for his executors, in accordance with
the opinion of the Circuit Judge, and the defendants sued out
this writ of error.

ir.

C. J Iillyer for plaintiff in error.
rm. X X. Stone for defendant in error.

MR. JUsTICE GizAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
reciting the foregoing facts, he continued:
The bond sued on was given under ยง 783 of the Revised
Statutes, which requires every marshal, before entering on the
duties of his office, to give bond with sureties for the faithful
performance of those duties by himself and his deputies; and
this action was brought under ยง 784, which authorizes any person, injured by a breach of the condition of the bond, to sue
thereon in his own name and for his sole use.
The question presented by the record is, whether the taking
by the marshal upon a writ of attachment on mesne process
against one person, of the goods of another, is a breach of the
condition of his official bond, for which his sureties are liable.
The marshal, in serving a writ of attachment on lnesne
process, which directs him to take the property of a particular
person, acts officially. His official duty is to take the property
of that person, and of that person only; and to take only such
property of his as is subject to be attached, and not property
exempt by law from attachment. A neglect to take the
attachable property of that person, and a taking, upon the writ,

LAMMON v. FEUSIER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the property of another person, or of property exempt from
attachment, are equally breaches of his official duty. The
taking of the attachable property of the person named in the
writ is rightful; the taking of the property of another person
is wrongful; but each, being done by the marshal in executing
the writ in his hands, is an attempt to perform his official duty,
and is an official act.
A person other than the defendant named in the writ, whose
property is wrongfully taken, may indeed sue the marshal, like
any other wrongdoer, in an action of trespass, to recover
damages for the wrongful taking; and neither the official
character of the marshal, nor the writ of attachment, affords
him any defence to such an action. Day v. Gallup, 2 Wall.
97; Bucke v. Oolbatlb, 3 Wall. 334.
But the remedy of a person, whose property is wrongfully
taken by the marshal in officially executing his writ, is not
limited to an action against him personally. His official bond
is not made to the person in whose behalf the writ is issued,
nor to any other individual, but to the government, for the
indemnity of all persons injured by the official misconduct of
himself or his deputies; and his bond may be put in suit by
and for the benefit of any such person.
When a marshal, upon a writ of attachment on mesne process, takes property of a person not named in the writ, the
property is in his official custody, and tnder the control of the
court whose officer he is, and whose writ he is executing; and,
according to the decisions of this court, the rightful owner cannot maintain an action of replevin against him, nor recover the
property specifically in any way, except in the court from
which the writ issued. Freeman v. l-owe, 24 how. 450; Jrippendorf v. IHyde, 110 U. S. 276. The principle upon which
those decisions are founded is, as declared by Mr. Justice Miller
in Bueck v. Colbal/, above cited, "that whenever property has
been seized by an officer of the court, by virtue of its process,
the property is to be considered as in the custody of the court,
and under its control for the time being; and that no other
court has a right to interfere with that possession, unless it be
some court which may have a direct supervisory control over

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the court whose process has first taken possession, or some
superior jurisdiction in the premises." 3 Wall. 341. because
the law had been so settled by this court, the plaintiff in this
case failed to maintain replevin in the courts of the State of
Nevada against the marshal, for the very taking which is the
ground of the present action. _Feasier v. Lammon, 6 Nevada,
209.
For these reasons the court is of opinion that the taking of
goods, upon a writ of attachment, into the custody of the
marshal, as the officer of the court that issues the writ, is,
whether the goods are the property of the defendant in the
writ or of any other person, an official act, and therefore, if
wrongful, a breach of the bond given by the marshal for the
faithful performance of the duties of his office.
Upon the analogous question, whether the sureties upon the
official bond of a sheriff, a coroner, or a constable are responsible for his taking upon a writ, directing him to take the
property of one person, the property of another, there has been
some difference of opinion in the courts of the several States.
The view that the sureties are not liable in such a case has
been maintained by decisions of the Supreme Courts of New
York, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Wisconsin, and perhaps receives some support from decisions in Alabama, Mississippi and Indiana. Ex parte Reed, 4 Hill, 572; People v.
Schuyler, 5 Barb. 166; State v. Conover, 4 Dutcher, 224; State
v. Long, 8 Iredell, 415; State v. Brown, 11 Iredell, 141; Gerber
v. Aecley, 32 Wisconsin, 233, and 37 Wisconsin, 43; Governor
v. Hancock, 2 Alabama, 728; "ecElhaney v. Gilleland, 30
Alabama, 183; Brown v. _osely, 11 Sm. & Marsh. 354;
Jenkins v. Lemonds, 29 Indiana, 294; Carey v. State, 34
Indiana, 105.
But in People v. Schuyler, 4 N. Y. 173, the judgment in 5
Barb. 166 was reversed, and the case Ex parte Reed, 4 Hill,
572, overruled by a majority of the New York Court of Appeals, with the concurrence of Chief Justice Bronson, who had
taken part in deciding Reed's Case. The final decision in
People v. Schuyler has been since treated by the Court of Appeals as settling the law upon this point. -Mayor,&c.,of New

LAMMON v. FEUSIER.
Opinion of the Court.

Yrork v. Sibberns, 3 Abbott App. 266, and 7 Daly, 436; Cumming v. Brown, 43 N. Y. 514; People v. -Lucas, 93 N. Y. 585.
And the liability of the sureties in such cases has been affirmed
by a great preponderance of authority, including decisions in
the highest courts of Pennsylvania, Maine, Massachusetts,
Ohio, Virginia, Kentucky, Missouri, Iowa, Nebraska, Texas
and California, and in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. Carmacle v. Commonwealth, 5 Binn. 184; Brunott
v. JcKee, 6 Watts & Serg. 513; Arcier v. Noble, 3 Greenl.
418 ; tharrisv. _Juanson, 2 Fairf. 241 ; Greenfijeld v. W1ilson, 13
Gray, 384; Tracy v. Goodwin, 5 Allen, 409 ; State v. Jennings,
4 Ohio St. 418; Sangster v. Commonwealth, 17 Grattan, 124;
Comn-onwealth v. Stockton, 5 T. B. Monroe, 192; Jewell v.
iills, 3 Bush, 62; State v. Moore, 19 Missouri, 366; State v.
Fitzpiatre/c,64 Missouri, 185; Charles v. Ihas ins, 11 Iowa, 329;
Turner v. Icillian, 12 Nebraska, 580; hlolliman v. Carroll,
27 Texas, 23; Van Pelt v. Littler, 14 Cal. 194; United States
v. I-ine, 3 MacArthur, 27.
In State v. Jennings, above cited, Chief Justice Thurman
said: "The authorities seem to us quite conclusive, that a
seizure of the goods of A. under color of process against B. is
official misconduct in the officer making the seizure; and is a
breach of the condition of his official bond, where that is that
he will faithfully perform the duties of his office. The reason
for this is, that the trespass is not the act of a mere individual,
but is perpetrated colore qfficii. If an officer, under color of a
X. fa. seizes property of the debtor that is exempt from execution, no one, I imagine, would deny that he had thereby broken
the condition of his bond. Why should the law be different
if, under color of the same process, he take the goods of a third
person? If the exemption of the goods from the execution in
the one case makes their seizure official misconduct, why should
it not have the like effect in the other? True, it may sometimes be more difficult to ascertain the ownership of the goods,
than to know whether a particular piece of property is exempt
from execution; but this is not always the case, and if it were,
it would not justify us in restricting to litigants the indemnity
afforded by the official bond, thus leaving the rest of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

munity with no other indemnity against official misconduct
than the responsibility of the officer might furnish." 4 Ohio
St. 423.
So in Lowell v. Parker,10 Met. 309, 3113, a constable, authorized by statute to serve only writs of attachment in which the
damages were laid at no more than $70, took property upon a
writ in which the damages were laid at a greater sum. In an
action upon his official bond, it was argued- for the sureties
that they were no more answerable than if he had acted
without any writ. But Chief Justice Shaw, in delivering the
opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, overruling the objection, and giving judgment for the plaintiff,
said: "lHe was an officer, had authority to attach goods on
mesne process on a suitable writ, professed to have such
process, and thereupon took the plaintiff's goods; that is, the
goods of Bean, for whose use and benefit this action is brought,
and who, therefore, may be called the plaintiff. Ie therefore
took the goods colore oflci, and though he had no sufficient
warrant for taking them, yet he is responsible to third persons,
because such taking was a breach of his official duty."
Upon the weight of authority, therefore, as well as upon
principle, the judgment of the Circuit Court in the case at bar
is right, and must be
_Afk rmed.

SWIFT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued March 5th, 6th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Internal Revenue- Voluntary Payment.
Under the act of July 14th, 1870, c. 255, 4, 16 Stat. 257, the proprietor of
friction matches who furnished his own dies, was entitled to a commission
of ten per cent, payable in money upon the amount of adhesive stamps
over $500 which he at any one time purchased for his own use from the
Bureau of Internal Revenue. Swift Company v. United States, 105 U. S.
691, considered and affirmed.
A payment made to a public officer in discharge of a fee or tax illegally exacted

