CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

COURT

OF

CLAIMS.

Argued April 18th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Claims against the United States.
If a treasury agent for the collection of cotton, who was convicted by a military commission of defrauding the United States, and was sentenced to pay a
fine, and paid the fine and was then released, consents after his release that
the money may pass into the treasury, he cannot maintain an action in the
Court of Claims to recover it back on an implied contract to refund it,
either on the ground that the fine was illegally imposed, or that it was paid
under duress.

The facts making the case fully appear in the opinion of the
court. The case below is reported 16 C. Cls. 361.
JT,. S. S. Henkle for appellant.
illr. SoUclor-Generalfor appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The case made by the finding of facts in the court below is,
substantially, as will be now stated.
On the 14th day of August, 1865, the President of the
United States instructed Major-General Thomas, commanding
the military division embracing the State of Alabama, to examine whether frauds were not being practised by treasury
agents in the collection of cotton, and to cause those ascer.
tained to be guilty, whether connected with the Treasury
Department or with the military forces, to be dealt with in the
most summary manner.
Previous to that time, about July 1st, 1865, the claimant
Carver was a sub-agent for the collection of cotton in behalf
of the government, and, with another, was so engaged in
Choctaw County, in that State. His authority as such agent
terminated August 5th, 1865. But, under certain regulations,
then recently adopted, he became a bonded special agent of
the Treasury Department, for the collection of cotton in the
same county, and, in that capacity, entered upon his duties on
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

voL. cxJ-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

the 29th day of August, 1865. Ile was superseded on the 16th
of September thereafter, but, while in office, he collected and
appropriated, in connection with others, about 600 bales of
cotton, none of which was ever turned over to, or received by,
the United States.
On October 4th, 1865, the claimant having been previously
arrested, a military commission, under an order of the general
commanding the department of Alabama, was convened for
his trial, and he was tried and found guilty of numerous frauds
practised by him while holding and exercising the office of
bonded special agent of the Treasury Department. The sentence imposed upon him was a fine of $90,000, "to be paid
into the Treasury of the United States, and that he be confined
at hard labor in such penitentiary as the commanding general
may direct for the term of one year and until such fine of
ninety thousand dollars ($90,000) shall be paid." The finding
and sentence were approved by the department commander,
and the provost-marshal-general was required to see that the
sentence was carried into effect.
On November 7th, 1865, the claimant paid the fine, and so
much of the sentence as imposed imprisonment wyas remitted
by the department commander. Carver was, thereupon, released from arrest. Out of the amount recovered from the
claimant, the government paid one-fourth to W. M. Moulton,
as compensation for his giving information of the alleged
frauds and preparing the case for trial. The balance was covered into the treasury.
After Carver's trial and conviction, and after the payment of
the fine imposed upon him, he endeavored to make amends for
the frauds of which be was found guilty. I.e proposed to the
department commander to make a full statement of cotton
transactions in that county, in which the government was concerned, and of which be had any knowledge or information,
provided the $90,000 collected from him was allowed as a
credit on his accounts; also to guarantee the further recovery
of from $10,000 to $15,000, he receiving a fair interest, say
one-fourth, for such recovery, which was to be had without suit or expense to the government. The Secretary of the

CARVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Treasury, in a communication to the department commander,
signified his willingness " to consider the $90,000 collected
from Carver in the form of a fine as a credit for that amount
on any account the government may have against him growing
out of his connection with cotton in Choctaw County, and to
allow him for his services, expenses, &c., in the premises, 33.per cent. of any further sums he may recover and pay over
for the benefit of the national treasury on said account."
Subsequently, on May 17th, 1866, Carver submitted to the
Secretary of the Treasury a communication, signed by himself,
showing that the amount really due the government on cotton
collected was $94,243.35, instead of $90,000, and asked the decision of that officer "whether said balance of $4,243.35 shall
be collected, or whether, under all the circumstances, said
balance shall be relinquished." On June 14th, 1866, Carver
paid said balance of $4,243.35 to the provost marshal of
Alabama, who, by order of the Secretary of the Treasury,
paid to him the sum of $1,414.45.
The present action was commenced by Carver on December
15th, 1871. It proceeds upon these grounds: That the charges
against him before the military commission were false and
feigned ; that the military commission by which he was tried
was without jurisdiction in the premises, since he, not being in
the military service, nor a contractor for military arms or supplies, was not subject to trial otherwise than in the civil courts;
also, that its proceedings were wholly unauthorized, illegal, and
void. For these reasons, he claimed that an action as upon
implied promises and contracts had accrued to him against the
United States for money had and received to his use and
benefit; and for said sum of $90,000 he prayed judgment.
Hlis petition was dismissed.
The claim of appellant is entirely without merit. Under
the findings of fact, which this court must accept as true, it is
unnecessary to consider any question involving the authority
and jurisdiction of the military commission before which the
claimant was arraigned, and by means of which the government compelled him to pay into its treasury the sum of $90,000;
for, if it were conceded that Carver was not subject to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tried in that mode, and that the entire proceedings against him
were illegal and void, it yet appears, that, after his release, he
voluntarily conceded that there was justly due from him to the
government a larger sum than he had paid; and, upon the basis
of that concession, he secured a credit upon his accounts for the
amount he had so paid, receiving, out of the balance, admitted
to be due from and chargeable to him, the sum of $1,414.45.
We can imagine no reason why it was not competent for him,
without reference to the legality of the proceedings before the
military commission, to come to an understanding with the
authorized officers of the government, substantially upon the
basis suggested by him and acceded to by them. Even if the
original payment to the government was under duress, he had
the right, subsequently, to agree, as he did, that what the government coerced him to pay was, in fact, fairly due upon a
proper settlement of his accounts. And when, by way of supplement to, and in execution of, that agreement, he accepted,
as compensation for his services, or as a gratuity, a portion of
the balance justly due from him, he is estopped to raise any
question as to the legality of the methods employed to collect
from him what should have been paid without compelling the
government to expend, for its collection, the large sum that
was allowed Moulton for his services.
Tlie judgment is a/firmed.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. LATHROP, Administrator.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOP, THE

NVESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued April 3d, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Court and Jury Trial-vidence.
The rule reaffirmed, that a case should not be withdrawn from the jury unless
the testimony be of such a conclusive character as to compel the court in the

