MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Syllabus.

and assessments with which his share of the trust property
was chargeable, and upon their payment to have a transfer to
himself of his share of the stock. The decree of the Circuit
Court has given him these rights. There has been an accounting, and the sum with which the appellee's interest in the stock
is chargeable has been ascertained, and when the sum so found
is paid by appellee, and not till then, the decree of the court
requires a transfer to him of his share of the stock. The decree
of the court simply executes and winds up a trust, the existence
of which it finds, but which the trustee denies and refuses to
execute. Both parties got their rights under the decree. It
must, therefore, be

Afli-rmed.

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TuE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued March 11th, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Conract-Insurance-Exception-False
Representatios-Practice-Trial.
Going to the jury upon one of several defences does not preclude the defendant, at a subsequent trial, from insisting upon other defences, involving
the merits, which have not been withdrawn of record or abandoned in pursuance of an agreement with the opposite side.
A judgment will not be reversed upon a general exception to the refusal of the
court to grant a series of instructions, presented as one request, because
there happen to be in the series some which ought to have been given.
The principle reaffirmed, that when a policy of insurance contains contradictory provisions, or has been so framed as to leave room for construction,
rendering it doubtful whether the parties intended the exact truth of the
applicant's statements to be a condition precedent to any binding contract,
the court should lean against that construction which imposes upon the
assured the obligations of a warranty.
An applicant for life insurance was required to state, categorically, whether he
had ever been afflicted with certain specified diseases. lie answered that
le had not. Upon an examination of the several clauses of the application,
in connection with the policy, it was held to be reasonably clear that the
company required, as a condition precedent to a valid contract, nothing

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.
more than that the insured would observe good faith towards it, and make
full, direct and honest answers to all questions, without evasion or fraud,
and without suppression, misrepresentation, or concealment of facts with
which the company ought to be made acquainted.
In the absence of explicit stipulations requiring such an interpretation, it
should not be inferred that the insured took a life policy with the understanding that it should be void, if, at any time in the past, he was, whether
conscious of the fact or not, afflicted with the diseases, or any one of them,
specified in the questions propounded by the company. Such a construction
of the contract should be avoided, unless clearly demanded by the established rules governing the interpretation of written instruments.

This was an action upon a policy of insurance issued by the
American Life Insurance Company of Philadelphia. By its
terms the amount insured-$10,000-was payable to Emilie
Ndoulor, the plaintiff in error, her executors, administrators,
and assigns, within sixty days after due notice and satisfactory
proof of interest and of the death of her husband, the insured,
certain indebtedness to the company being first deducted.
Upon the first trial there was a verdict for the plaintiff, which
was set aside and a new trial awarded. At the next trial, the
jury were peremptorily instructed to find for the company, and
judgment was, accordingly, entered in its behalf. Upon writ
of error to this court, that judgment was reversed upon the
ground that, as to certain issues arising out of the evidence, the
case should have been submitted to the jury. zVoulor v. Insurance Company, 101 U. S. 708. At the last trial there was
a verdict and judgment for the defendant. This writ of error
is sued out to review the proceedings and judgment at that
trial. The alleged errors and the facts relating to them fully
appear in the opinion of the court.
.Mr.James Parsonsfor plaintiff in error.
. r. Henry Iazlehur8st for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcn IHARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the trial the plaintiff offered to show, by the testimony
of witnesses, that at a previous trial, in 1875, the company
went to the jury upon the single issue of an alleged breach of
warranty, and did not seek a verdict upon the ground that the

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

insured had committed suicide. The offer was denied, and
the action of the court thereon is assigned for error. The
avowed object of the proof was to establish a waiver by the
company of any defence founded upon that clause of the policy
which declares that it shall be void in case the insured "die by
his own hand." Undoubtedly, it was competent for the coinpany to waive that or any other defence arising out of the
conditions of the policy; but, clearly, its willingness, at one
trial, to risk its case before the jury, upon a single one of
several issues made, did not preclude it, at a subsequent trial,
from insisting upon other defences, involving the merits, which
had not been withdrawn of record, or abandoned in pursuance
of an agreement with the plaintiff.
After the evidence was closed, the plaintiff submitted to the
court a series of instructions, twenty-three in number, and asked
that the jury be charged as therein indicated. As to instructions eleven, twelve, and nineteen, no ruling was made, nor was
an exception taken for the failure of the court to pass upon
them. The twenty-third, relating to the before-mentioned
waiver of defence upon the ground of self-destruction, was
rightly refused, because the evidence showed no such waiver.
As to the remaining instructions, the court said, generally, that
the propositions announced in them could not be affirmed,
because they were either unsound or 'irrelevant. A general
exception was taken to the "answers" of the court to the application to charge the jury as indicated in plaintiff's points.
That exception, however, was too vague and indefinite. Some
of the instructions submitted might well have been given, while
others were abstract, or did not embody a correct exposition of
the law of the case. Those instructions, although separately
numbered, seem to have been presented as one request, and the
exception was general as to the action of the court in respect
of them all. If it was intended to save an exception as to distinct propositions embodied in the instructions, the attention of
the court should have been directed to the specific points concerning which it was supposed error had been committed. As
some of the plaintiff's instructions were properly overruled, we
ought not, under the general exception taken, to reverse the
VOL. cxI-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment merely because, in the series presented as one request,
there were some which ought to have been given. Indianapolis, &e., Railroad Company v. Ilorst, 93 U. S. 295; Rogers
v. Te Marslal, 1 Wall. 644; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Ib. 328;
Johnson v. Jones, I Black, 210; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46;
Beekwith v. Bean, 98 lb. 266.
But there were certain parts of the charge to which exceptions were taken in due form. The rulings, the correctness
of which is questioned by the assignments of error, will be
presently stated. It is necessary that we should first ascertain
the precise nature of the case disclosed by the evidence.
The seventh question in the application for insurance required
the insured to answer Yes or No, as to whether he had ever
been afflicted with any of the following diseases: Insanity,
gout, rheumatism, palsy, scrofula, convulsions, dropsy, smallpox, yellow fever, fistula, rupture, asthma, spitting of blood,
consumption, and diseases of the lungs, throat, heart, and
urinary organs. As to each, the answ-er of the insured was,
No.
The tenth question was: "Has the party's father, mother,
brothers or sisters been afflicted with consumption or any other
serious family disease, such as scrofula, insanity, &c. ." The
answer was, "No, not since childhood."
The fourteenth question was: "Is there any circumstance
which renders an insurance on his life more than usually
hazardous, such as place of residence, occupation, physical condition, family history, hereditary predispositions, constitutional
infirmity, or other known cause, or any other circumstance or
information with which the company ought to be made acquainted? " The answer was, No.
To the sixteenth question, "Has the applicant reviewed the
answers to the foregoing questions, and is it clearly understood
and agreed, that any untrue or fraudulent answers, or any suppression of facts in regard to health, habits, or circumstances,
or neglect to pay the premium on or before the time it becomes
due, will, according to the terms of the policy, vitiate the same
and forfeit all payments made thereon?" the answer was, Yes.
At the close of the series of questions, nineteen in number.

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. Co.
Opinion of the Court.

propounded to and answered by the applicant, are the following paragraphs:
"It is hereby declared and warranted that the above are fair
and true answers to the foregoing questions ; and it is acknowledged and agreed by the undersigned that this application shall
form part of the contract of insurance, and that if there be, in any
of the answers herein made, any untrue or evasive statements, or
any misrepresentation or concealment of facts, then any policy
granted upon this application shall be null and void, and all payments made thereon shall be forfeited to the company.
"And it is ful'ther agreed that if at anytime hereafter the company shall discover that any of said answers or statements are untrue or evasive, or that there has been any concealment of facts,
then, and in every such case, the company may refuse to receive
further premiums on any policy so granted upon this application,
and said policy shall be null and void, and payments forfeited as
aforesaid."

The policy recites that the agreement of the company to pay
the sum specified is "in consideration of the representations
made to them in the application," and of the payment of the
premium at the time specified; further, "it is hereby declared
and agreed that if the representations and answers made to
this company, on the application for this policy, upon the full
faith of which it is issued, shall be found to be untrue in any
respect, or that there has been any concealment of facts, then
and in every such case the policy shall be null and void."
The main defence was that the insured had been afflicted
with scrofula, asthma and consumption prior to the making of
his application, and that, in view of his statement that he had
never been so afflicted, the policy was, by its terms, null and
void.
There was, undoubtedly, evidence tending to show that the
insured had beQn afflicted with those diseases, or some of them,
prior to his application; but there was also evidence tending to
show not only that he was then in sound health, but that, at
the time of his application, he did not know or believe that he

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

had ever been afflicted with any of them in a sensible, appreciable form.
Referring to the seventh question in the application, the
court-after observing that the answer thereto was untrue, and
the policy avoided, if the insured had been, at any time,
afflicted with either of the diseases last referred to-instructed
the jury: "It is of no consequence, in such case, whether he
knew it to be untrue or not; he bound himself for its correctness, and agreed that the validity of his policy should depend
upon its being so." Again: "That he, the insured, did not
know he was then afflicted, is of no importance whatever, except as it may bear upon the question, Was he afflicted? If he
was, his answer (for the truth of which he bound himself) was
untrue, and his knowledge, or absence of knowledge, on the
subject, is of no consequence." Further: "You [the jury]
must determine whether the insured was at any time afflicted
with either of the diseases named. If he was, his answer in
this respect, was untrue, and notwithstanding he may have
ignorantly and honestly made it, the policy is void, and no
recovery can be had upon it." To so much of the charge as we
have quoted the plaintiff excepted.
Assuming-as in view of the finding of the jury we must assumne-that the insured was, at the date of his application, or
had been prior thereto, afflicted with the disease of scrofula,
asthma, or consumption, the question arises whether the beneficiary may not recover, unless it appears that he had knowledge or some reason to believe when be applied for insurance,
that he was or had been afflicted with either of those diseases.
The Circuit Court plainly proceeded upon the ground that his
knowledge or belief as to having been afflicted with the diseases specified, or some one of them, was not an essential
element in the contract; in other words, if the assured ever
had, in fact, any one of the diseases mentioned in his answer to
the seventh question, there could be no recovery, although the
jury should find from the evidence that he acted in perfect
good faith, and had no reason to suspect, much less to believe
or know, that he had ever been so afflicted. If, upon a reasonable interpretation, such was the contract, the duty of the court

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

is to enforce it according to its terms; for the law does not
forbid parties to a contract for life insurance to stipulate that
its validity shall depend upon conditions or contingencies such
as the court below decided were embodied in the policy in suit.
The contracts involved in Jefries v. Lie Ins. Co., 22 Wall. 47,
and Aetna [ife Ins. Co. v. France, &c., 91 U. S. 510, were held
to be of that kind. But, unless clearly demanded by the established rules governing the construction of written agreements,
such an interpretation ought to be avoided. In the absence of
explicit, unequivocal stipulations, requiring such an interpretation, it should not be inferred that a person took a life policy
with the distinct understanding that it should be void and all
premiums paid thereon forfeited, if at any time in the past,
however remote, he was, whether conscious of the fact or not,
afflicted with some one of the diseases mentioned in the question
to which he was required to make a categorical answer. If
those who organize and control life insurance companies wish
to exact from the applicant, as a condition precedent to a valid
contract, a guaranty against tme existence of diseases, of the
presence of which in his system he has and can have no knowledge, and which even skilful physicians are often unable, after
the most careful examination, to detect, the terms of the contract to that effect must be so clear as to exclude any other
conclusion.
In National Bank v. Insura2nce Company, 95 U. S. 673which was a case of fire insurance, involving, among others,
the question whether the statements as to the value of the
property insured were warranties-it was said: "When a
policy of insurance contains contradictory provisions, or has
been so framed as to leave room for construction, rendering
it doubtful whether the parties intended the exact truth of
the applicant's statements to be a condition precedent to any
binding contract, the court should lean against that construction which imposes upon the assured the obligation of a warranty. The company cannot justly complain of such a rule.
Its attorneys, officers, or agents prepared the policy for the
purpose, we shall assume, both of protecting the company
against fraud, and of securing the just rights of the assured

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

under a valid contract of insurance. It is its language which
the court is invited to interpret, and it is both reasonable and
just that its own words should be construed most strongly
against itself." See, also, Grace v. American. Lnsurance Company, 109 U. S. 278, 282. These rules of interpretation, equally
applicable in cases of life insurance, forbid the conclusion that
the answers to the questions in the application constituted
warranties, to be literally and exactly fulfilled, as distinguished
from representations which must be substantially performed in
all matters material to the risk, that is, in matters which are
of the essence of the contract.
We have seen that the application contains a stipulation that
it shall form a part of the contract of insurance; also, that the
policy purports to have been issued upon the faith of the representations and answers in that application. iBoth instruments,
therefore, may be examined to ascertain whether the contract
furnishes a uniform fixed rule of interpretation, and what was
the intention of the parties. Taken together, it cannot be said
that they have been so framed as to leave no room for construction. The mind does not rest firmly in the conviction
that the parties stipulated for the literal truth of every statement made by the insured. There is, to say the least, ground
for serious doubt as to whether the company intended to
require, and the insured intended to promise, an exact, literal
fulfilment of all the declarations embodied in the application. It is true that the word "warranted " is in the application; and, although a contract might be so framed as to impose
upon the insured the obligations of a strict warranty, without
introducing into it that particular word, yet it is a fact, not
without some significance, that that word was not carried
forward into the policy, the terms of which control when there
is a conflict between its provisions and those of the application.
The policy upon its face characterizes the statements of the
insured as representations. Thus, we have one part of the contract apparently stipulating for a warranty, while another part
describes the statements of the assured as representations. The
doubt, as to the intention of the parties, must, according to the
settled doctrines of the law of insurance, recognized in all the

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

adjudged cases, be resolved against the party whose language
it becomes necessary to interpret. The construction must,
therefore, prevail which protects the insured against the obligations arising from a strict warranty.
But it is contended that if the answers of the assured are to be
deemed representations only, the policy was, nevertheless, forfeited, if those representations were untrue in respect of any
matters material to the risk. The argument is, that if the
insured was, at the time of his application, or had been at any
former period of his life, seriously or in an appreciable sense,
afflicted with scrofula, asthma, or consumption, his answer,
without qualification, that he had never been so afflicted, being
untrue, avoided the policy, without reference to any knowledge
or belief he had upon the subject. The soundness of this proposition could not be disputed if, as assumed, the knowledge or
good faith of the insured, as to the existence of such diseases,
was, under the terms of the contract in suit, of no consequence
whatever in determining the liability of the company. But is
that assumption authorized by a proper interpretation of the
two instruments constituting the contract? We think not.
Looking into the application upon the faith of which the
policy was issued and accepted, we find much justifying the
conclusion that the company did not require the insured to do
more, when applying for insurance, than observe the utmost
good faith, and deal fairly and honestly with it, in respect of
all material facts about which inquiry is made, and as to which
he has or should be presumed to have knowledge or information. The applicant was required to answer yes or no as
to whether he had been afflicted with certain diseases. In respect of some of those diseases, particularly consumption, and
diseases of the lungs, heart, and other internal organs, common
experience informs us that an individual may have them, in
active form, without at the time being conscious of the fact,
and beyond the power of any one, however learned or skilful,
to discover. Did the company expect, when requiring categorical answers as to the existence of diseases of that character,
that the applicant should answer with absolute certainty about
matters of which certainty could not possibly be predicated?

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Did it intend to put upon him the responsibility of knowing
that which, perhaps, no one, however thoroughly trained in the
study of human diseases, could possibly ascertain?
We shall be aided in the solution of these inquiries by an
examination of other questions propounded to the applicant.
In that way we may ascertain what was in the minds of the
parties.
Beyond doubt, the phrase "other known cause," in the fourteenth question, serves the double purpose of interpreting and
qualifying all that precedes it in the same clause or sentence.
For instance, the applicant was not required to state all the
circumstances, within his recollection, of his family history,
but those only which rendered the proposed insurance more
than usually hazardous, and of which he had personal knowledge, or of which he had infornation fairly justifying a
belief of their existence. If he omitted to state circumstances
in his "family history" of which he had no knowledge, nor
any information deserving attention, that omission would not
avoid the policy, although it subsequently appeared that those
circumstances, if known to the company, would have shown
that the proposed insurance was more than usually hazardous.
Apart from other questions or clauses in the application, the
tenth question would indicate that an incorrect or untrue
answer as to whether the applicant's "father, mother, brothers,
or sisters had been affected with consumption, or any other
serious family disease, such as scrofula, insanity, &c.," would
absolve the company from all liability. Yet, in the fourteenth
question, the insured, being asked as to his family history and
as to "hereditary predispositions "-an inquiry substantially
covering some of the specific matters referred to in the tenth
question-was, as we have seen, only required to state such
circumstances as were known to him, or of which he had information, and which rendered an insurance upon his life more
than usually hazardous. So, in reference to that part of the
fourteenth question relating to the then physical condition of
the applicant. Suppose, at the time of his application, he had
a disease of the lungs or heart, but was entirely unaware that
he was so affected. In such a case, he would have met all the

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

requirements of that particular question, and acted in the
utmost good faith, by answering no, thereby implying that he
was aware of no circumstance in his then physical condition
which rendered an insurance upon his life more than usually
hazardous. And yet, according to the contention of the coinpany, if he had, at any former period of his life, been afflicted
with a disease of the heart or lungs, his positive answer to the
seventh question, that he had not been so afflicted, was fatal to
the contract; this, although the applicant had no knowledge
or information of the existence at any time of such a disease in
his. system. So, also, in reference to the inquiry in the fourteenth question as to any "constitutional infirmity" of the
insured. If, in answering that question, he was required to disclose only such constitutional infirmities as were then known to
him, or which he had reason to believe then existed, it would
be unreasonable to infer that he was expected, in answer to a
prior question in the same policy, to guarantee absolutely, and
as a condition precedent to any binding contract, that he had
never, at any time, been afflicted with diseases of which, perhaps, he never had, and could not have, any knowledge
whatever.
The entire argument in behalf of the company proceeds upon
a too literal interpretation of those clauses in the policy and
application which declare the contract null and void if the
answers of the insured to the questions propounded to him
were, in any respect, untrue. What was meant by "true" and
" untrue " answers? In one sense, that only is true which is
conformable to the actual state of things. In that sense, a statement is untrue which does not express things exactly as they
are, But in another and broader sense, the word "true " is
often used as a synonym of honest, sincere, not fraudulent.
Looking at all the clauses of the application, in connection with
the policy, it is reasonably clear-certainly the contrary cannot
be confidently asserted-that what the company required of
the applicant, as a condition precedent to any binding contract,
was, that he would observe the utmost good faith towards it,
and make full, direct, and honest answers to all questions,
without evasion or fraud, and without suppression, misrepresen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tation or concealment of facts with which the company ought
to be made acquainted; and that by so doing, and only by so
doing, would he be deemed to have made "fair and true answers."
If it be said that an individual could not be affli6ted with the
diseases specified in the application, without being cognizant of
the fact, the answer is that the jury would, in that case, have
no serious difficulty in finding that he had failed to communicate to the company what he knew or should have known was
material to the risk, and that, consequently, for the want of
"fair and true answers," the policy was, by its terms, null and
void. But, whether a disease is of such a character that its
existence must have been known to the individual afflicted with
it, and, therefore, whether an answer denying its existence was
or not a fair and true answer, is a matter which should have
been submitted to the jury. It was an erroneous construction
of the contract to hold, as the court below did, that the company was relieved from liability if it appeared that the insured
was, in fact, afflicted with the diseases, or any of them, mentioned in the charge of the court. The jury should have been
instructed, so far as the matters here under examination are
concerned, that the plaintiff was not precluded from recovering on the policy, unless it appeared from all the circumstances,
including the nature of the diseases with which the insured was
alleged to have been afflicted, that he knew, or had reason to
believe, at the time of his application, that he was or had been
so afflicted.
It results from what has been said that the judgment must
be reversed, with directions to set aside the verdict, and for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

