IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
Statement of Facts.

to the discovery, that the original claim did not cover everything that might have been embraced, and was not broad
enough to maintain the monopoly desired but not secured.
This brings the case directly within the principle of Miller v.
Brass Cognany, 104 U. S. 350, and the numerous others which
have followed it, including that of Clements v. Odorless Apparatus Company, 109 U. S. 641, all of which have been decided since the interlocutory decree in this case was pronounced.
For these reasons,
The decree of the Cireuit Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill, and it is so
ordered.

IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued March 31st, April 1st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884,

Trust.
On the facts in this case the court finds that the deed in controversy was not
a mere gratuity and left in escrow; but that it was delivered, and imposed
upon the appellant a trust in favor of the grantor of the appellee to which
the appellee has succeeded.
When a trustee denies the trust and refuses to perform it a court of equity
will appoint a new trustee in his place, and the old trustee will not be entitled
to retain the property under cover of having an account as trustee, before
paying over the net proceeds.

The bill of complaint in this case was filed by Dunham, the
appellee, against Irvine, the appellant. It averred that on
March 28th, 1874, Irvine and one Richard II. Sinton were the
joint and equal owners of one undivided half of the Morgan
Mine in Calaveras County, in the State of California; that the
legal title to such undivided half was vested in Irvine, but was
held by him in trust for himself and Sinton equally, share and
share alike; that the undivided half of the mine had been ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

quired by Irvine and Sinton by their common efforts and at
their common expense, and pursuant to an agreement between
them to acquire the title thereto and sell and otherwise dispose
of the same, and share equally the profits and losses. The
other undivided half of the mine was, so the bill alleged, held
by Irvine in trust for certain other persons.
The bill further alleged, that on the said March 28th, 1874,
Irvine executed to Sinton an instrument and declaration of trust
in writing of that date, of which the following is a copy:
"This is to declare that I, William Irvine, of San Francisco,
California, am the owner of one undivided half of that certain
gold-bearing quartz lode or mine situated on Carson Hill,
Calaveras County, California, and known familiarly as the 'Morgan Mine,' and that I hold said half interest equally for myself
and R. 1I. Sinton, also of San Francisco, share and share alike ;
and I hereby promise and bind myself, my heirs and assigns,
whenever said mine shall be sold or otherwise disposed of, to account fully and truly to said Sinton, his heirs or assigns, for the
one-half of all net proceeds of such sale or other disposition of
said half interest.
"All necessary expenses, including counsel fees heretofore incurred, or that may hereafter be incurred, in and about the
property, up to the time of such sale or other disposition thereof,
to be first paid before division of such proceeds.
"Witness my hand and seal, this 28th day of March, A.D. 1874.
"WILLIAM IRVINE.'
[Seal.]
"Witnesses :
"T. K. WILSON.
"II. J. TILDEN."
The bill also averred, that on September 8th, 1874, Sinton
assigned and conveyed to one George P. Ihrie all his right and
title in the mine, and declaration of trust, and everything coming or that might come to him by virtue thereof, that on
March 17th, 1875, Irvine, and the owners of the other undivided half of the mine, organized under the laws of California

a corporate body called the Morgan Mining Company, and
that on April 9th following, Irvine and the other persons having an interest in the mine, except Ihrie, sold and conveyed

IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
Statement of Facts.

the same to the corporation, and received in consideration
thereof shares of stock in the company, in proportion to their
interest in the property conveyed, Irvine receiving ten thousand
shares for the undivided half held by him for himself in trust
and for Ihrie, as the grantee of Sinton, and that Ihrie then and
there became entitled to the one-half of the ten thousand
shares.
It was further alleged, that on June 29th, 1875, Ihrie conveyed all his title and interest in the mine and in the five
thousand shares of the stock of the Morgan Mining Company
to Dunham, the complainant, for whose use and benefit Irvine
held the shares subject to the payment of the expenses, &c.,
mentioned in the declaration of trust.
The bill further alleged, that after the conveyance by Ihrie
of his interest in the stock of the Morgan Mining Company to
complainant, the latter applied to Irvine for an account of the
necessary expenses and fees incurred by him in and about the
mine up to the conveyance thereof to the company, and
offered to pay him one-half thereof, and demanded a transfer
to himself of the shares of stock in the company held in trust
for him by Irvine, but Irvine refused to render any account,
denied the complainant's right to the stock or any part of it,
denied that he held any stock in trust for complainant, and
claimed all of the ten thousand shares as his own, and denied
that he was ever trustee in the premises for Sinton, or Ihrie, or
the complainant.
The bill further averred that the complainant was ready, and
that he then offered to pay into court, the one-half of all the
expenses and fees paid by Irvine, on account of the mine, up to
the conveyance thereof to the Morgan Mining Company, and
such further sums as the court might deem equitable and just;
that Irvine had it in his power to transfer the stock held in
trust by him for the complainant to a bona fde purchaser, for
value, without notice, and that he would do so unless restrained
by injunction.
The prayer of the bill was that Irvine be decreed to hold
in trust for the complainant said five thousand shares of the
capital stock; that the court would declare what sum was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

justly due to Irvine from the complainant on account of the
necessary expenses, &c., incurred by him in and about the
mine, and that upon the payment of the same by complainant
to Irvine the latter might be decreed to assign and transfer said
five thousand shares to him.
The answer of Irvine denied that Sinton was ever the owner
of an undivided fourth of said mine, or of any share or interest
therein or any part thereof; denied that Irvine ever held the
legal title to the mine or to any part or share thereof, in
trust for himself and Sinton ; denied that the undivided half
thereof was acquired by himself and Sinton by their common
efforts and at their common expense for their equal benefit,
but averred that he acquired said undivided half for his own
sole and exclusive use and benefit, and that Sinton contributed
neither effort nor expense towards its acquisition.
The answer further averred that Irvine, on March 28th, 1874,
being about to leave California for a trip to the Atlantic States,
to be absent for several months, signed the declaration of trust
as a mere gratuity to Sinton, upon the express agreement between him and Sinton that the same should be left in the custody of T. K. Wilson, who was Irvine's attorney, and that it
was not to take effect except in case of the death of Irvine
upon his proposed journey, and in case lie should return to
California that the instrument should be delivered up to him;
that the instrument was never in any manner delivered to
Sinton, and that Irvine, after so signing it, did perform his
journey and returned therefrom to the State of California in
the month of August, 1874. The answer of Irvine was put at
issue by general replication.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court decreed that Irvine
hold as trustee, for the use and benefit of the complainant, the
one-half of 9,997 shares of the capital stock of the Morgan
Mining Company, the shares being the gross proceeds received
by Irvine as the consideration of a conveyance and disposition
by him to the Morgan Mining Company of one-half of the
mining property, the half of the stocks so held by Irvine in
trust for the complainant being subject to a claim of Irvine for
one-half of all the necessary expenses referred to in the decla-

IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

ration of trust, and of assessments on said stock made by the
Morgan Mining Company and paid by Irvine. And the court
confirmed the report of the master to whom the case had been
referred, finding that the one-half of the expenses and assess.
ments paid by Irvine was $14,221.76; and decreed that upon
the payment of that sum by the complainant to Irvine, the latter should assign and transfer to complainant 4,998- shares of
the capital stock of the Morgan Mining Company. From this
decree Irvine appealed.
21. Geo. TIV Towle, Jr., and 31r. James
appellant.
Jr.

.. Johnston for

Skellabarger for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.

le

stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
It is not disputed that the appellee has succeeded to all the
rights of Sinton and Ihrie, if they had any, set forth in the bill
of complaint. The question of fact at issue between the parties
is, whether or not before the conveyance by the appellant to
the Morgan Mining Company of the Morgan Mine, he held the
title to an undivided fourth of the mine in trust for Sinton.
The declaration of trust signed by Irvine on March 28th,
1874, unless impeached, is evidence which settles this question
conclusively in favor of the appellee. The appellant, however,
contends, as appears from his answer and testimony, that his
promise to hold one-fourth of the mine in trust for the complainant was a mere gratuity; that Sinton never paid any
money or rendered any services in obtaining title to the mine;
that the declaration of trust was never delivered, and that it
was to take effect and bind him in case he never returned from
proposed journey. The burden is on the appellant to make
this appear.
It is shown by the record that in December, 1869, or January, 1870, the appellant purchased at a tax sale the title to
the Morgan mine, that he received a deed therefor dated June
29th, 1870, from the sheriff, and was put in possession of the
property by a writ of assistance. Prior to the purchase at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tax sale James G. Fair and A. A. Selover had been in possession
of the mine ; they claimed that Irvine had purchased the mine
at the tax sale for them. Irvine demanded a large sun for his
services, and after some delay gave them notice that if they did
not accede to his demand he would hold the title for himself.
Fair and Selover never paid the sum demanded by appellant, or
any part of it, and appear to have abandoned all claim to the
property. About this time, Henry D. Bacon and his associates,
seven in number, were claiming title to the mine. On April
14th, 1873, they compromised their controversy with the appellant by an agreement that he should apply for a patent for the
property in his own name, and, having obtained it, should sell
the property and divide its proceeds, retaining one-half himself
and turning over the other half to Bacon and his associates.
The appellant accordingly applied for and obtained a patent in
his own name for the property. When the Morgan Mining
Company was formed, and the mine was conveyed to it, Bacon
and his associates got half the stock in consideration of their
interest in the mine held in trust for them by the appellant,
who received the other half of the stock.
Without going into a discussion of the evidence, we state our
opinion to be, after a careful examination of the record, that it
is established by the testimony that Sinton, who was an experienced dealer in real property, contributed money and aided
the appellant by his advice and co-operation in obtaining the
tax title to the Morgan mine, and afterwards in getting the
patent therefor from the United States, and in compromising
the controversy between the appellant and Bacon and his associates in regard to the ownership of the mine; and that the
money and services were contributed by Sinton on the agreement and understanding that he and the appellant were to
share equally in the results of the enterprise. The fact that
Sinton furnished the appellant money on account of the mine
is found by the master to whom the case was referred, and no
exception was taken to that part of his report. It is established
that the appellant, after the compromise with Bacon and
others, agreed to hold the title to the undivided half of the
mine in trust for himself and Sinton, share and share alike,

IRVINE v. DUNhAM.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to the payment of the proportion of such undivided
half in the costs and expenses incurred in securing title to
and managing the property. The declaration signed by the
appellant on March 28th, 1874, was simply an admission in
writing by him of the contract between him and the appellee
in relation to their interest in the Morgan mine.
The contention of the appellant that the declaration of trust
was a mere gratuity is not sustained by the proof. On the contrary, independently of the declaration, the testimony in the
record establishes the trust and its terms, as set up in the bill
of complaint, and shows that the declaration of trust was not
voluntary, but was based on a valuable consideration.
The appellant contends that the declaration of trust was put
in the hands of Wilson as an escrow, to be delivered to Sinton
only in case the appellant died on his proposed journey, and to
be redelivered to the appellant in case he returned to California,
and that as he did return, the declaration of trust became
ineffectual to bind him. This contention amounts to this, that
by accepting the declaration of trust upon the terms alleged by
the appellant, Sinton agreed that if the appellant returned from
his trip to the Eastern States, le would give up all claim to his
share of the property. If such had been the agreement of the
parties, they would naturally have embodied it in the written
instrument. It contains no such stipulation. It is an unqualified and unconditional admission by the appellant that he held
the property in trust for Sinton and himself, and that when it
was sold or disposed of, he would divide its net proceeds
equally between Sinton and himself. We find no evidence in
the record sufficient to sustain the improbable story that Sinton
agreed, in case appellant should return in safety from his trip
to the Atlantic States, that he would give up his interest in this
valuable property, to secure which he had contributed money,
and services extending over a period of several years. In other
words, we do not find that the declaration of trust was subject
to any such condition.
The next contention of the appellant is that the decree
should be reversed, because there has been no sale or disposal
of his property, and that by the terms of the trust Sinton

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

bad only a right to the net proceeds after its sale or disposal.
But the record shows that the property had been disposed of
by conveyance to the Morgan Mining Company. The deed of
the appellant to the company effectually divested him of all
title to the property. It became the property of the corporation, in which he retained no interest or estate. Mr. Justice
Bradley, in Aforgan v. Thie Railroad Company, 1 Woods, 15.
The conveyance was, therefore, a disposal of the property, and
whether the consideration was cash or shares of the capital
stock of the company, was immaterial. The appellant having
parted with the title to the property, was bound to account for
its, proceeds to the beneficiary of the trust according to the
terms of the trust.
The appellant next contends that he is entitled, under the
terms of the trust, to hold on to the stock, which he received
as a consideration for the conveyance of the trust property,
until there has been an accounting and the expenses and counsel
fees have been paid. But by his answer he denies the trust,
he claims to hold the stock for himself alone, he wants no
accounting and does not offer to account, or to hand over any
net proceeds of the property after an accounting. In other
words, he seeks to hold on to the trust property until it suits
him to execute a trust, the existence of which he denies.
Where there is a failure of suitable trustees to perform a
trust, either from accident or from the refusal of the old trustees to act, or from their original or supervenient incapacity to
act, or from any other cause, courts of equity will appoint new
trustees. L'llison v. Ellison, 6 Ves. 656, 663; Lake v. De Zambert, 4 Ves. 592; Hlibbardv. Lamb, Ambler, 309; 2 Mad. Pr.
Ch. 133; Com. Dig. Chancery, 4 W. T. No trustee can be
nore unsuitable than one who not only refuses to act, but
denies the trust. When, therefore, appellant denied that he
held in trust the stock claimed by the appellee, the latter,
having established the trust, was entitled to have, if he demanded it, a new trustee appointed, or if the appointment of a
new trustee were not necessary for the preservation of his
rights, to have an account taken by the court of the expenses

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INS. CO.
Syllabus.

and assessments with which his share of the trust property
was chargeable, and upon their payment to have a transfer to
himself of his share of the stock. The decree of the Circuit
Court has given him these rights. There has been an accounting, and the sum with which the appellee's interest in the stock
is chargeable has been ascertained, and when the sum so found
is paid by appellee, and not till then, the decree of the court
requires a transfer to him of his share of the stock. The decree
of the court simply executes and winds up a trust, the existence
of which it finds, but which the trustee denies and refuses to
execute. Both parties got their rights under the decree. It
must, therefore, be

Afli-rmed.

MOULOR v. AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TuE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued March 11th, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Conract-Insurance-Exception-False
Representatios-Practice-Trial.
Going to the jury upon one of several defences does not preclude the defendant, at a subsequent trial, from insisting upon other defences, involving
the merits, which have not been withdrawn of record or abandoned in pursuance of an agreement with the opposite side.
A judgment will not be reversed upon a general exception to the refusal of the
court to grant a series of instructions, presented as one request, because
there happen to be in the series some which ought to have been given.
The principle reaffirmed, that when a policy of insurance contains contradictory provisions, or has been so framed as to leave room for construction,
rendering it doubtful whether the parties intended the exact truth of the
applicant's statements to be a condition precedent to any binding contract,
the court should lean against that construction which imposes upon the
assured the obligations of a warranty.
An applicant for life insurance was required to state, categorically, whether he
had ever been afflicted with certain specified diseases. lie answered that
le had not. Upon an examination of the several clauses of the application,
in connection with the policy, it was held to be reasonably clear that the
company required, as a condition precedent to a valid contract, nothing

