OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

IIENNEQUIN & Another v. CLEWS & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE cITY

OF

NEW YORK.

Argued March 13th, 18s4.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Bankruptcy.
One hypothecating, to secure a debt due from himself, securities which had
been pledged to him to secure the obligation of another, and failing to re-

turn them when such obligation is discharged, does not thereby create a
debt by fraud, or in a fiduciary capacity, which is exempted by § 5117 Rev.
Stat. from the operation of a discharge in bankruptcy.

In October, 1871, henry Clews & Co. opened a line of
credit on their London house of Clews, Ilabicht & Co., for
£6,000 in favor of Ilennequin & Co., a firm doing business in
New York and Paris, authorizing the latter to draw from time to
time bills of exchange on the London house at ninety days from
date, with the privilege of renewal, it being agreed that Hennequin & Co. should remit to Clews, Ilabicht & Co., a few days
before the maturity of each bill, the necessary funds to meet and
pay the same, so that Clews, llabicht & Co. should not have to
advance any money to pay it. In consideration of such accommodation acceptances, Ilennequin & Co. deposited with Clews
& Co. certain collateral securities, for the purpose of securing
them, in case Hlennequin & Co. failed to remit the requisite
funds to pay the said bills of exchange, amongst which collaterals were twenty-nine Toledo railroad mortgage bonds, for
$1,000 each. Clews & Co. used the said bonds by depositing
them with third parties as collateral security to raise money
for their own purposes, although not called upon to make any
advances to pay the bills of Hennequin & Co., all of which
were protected and paid according to agreement. After the
bills were all retired, Ilennequin & Co. demanded a return
of the collaterals; but Clews & Co. having failed in business, did not return them. Thereupon, to recover the bonds,
or their value, and damages, this suit was brought in the
Superior Court of New York City by ilennequin & Co.
against Clews & Co. and the parties with whom they had deposited the bonds. The suit was dismissed as to the latter

IIENNEQUIN v. CLEWS.
Statement of Facts.
parties, and Clews & Co., amongst other things, pleaded that

on the 18th of November, 1874, they were adjudged bankrupts
under the laws of the United States, and that a trustee was
appointed, who succeeded to all their interest in said securities;
and by a supplemental answer, filed afterward, they pleaded
their discharge in bankruptcy. The following is a copy of
the substantial part of this answer, namely:
"The supplemental answer as amended of the defendants
Henry Clews and Theodore S. Fowler to the complaint in this
action, served by leave of the court first had and obtained, shows
to the court that subsequent to the service of the original answer
herein, in pursuance of the bankruptcy proceedings mentioned in
said answer and the order of the court of bankruptcy, the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, sitting as a court of bankruptcy, did make an order and
grant to said defendants certificates of discharge under seal of
said court on the 24th day of December, 1875, discharging the
above-named defendants and each of them from all debts and claims
which by the Revised Statutes, title Bankruptcy, are made provable against the estate of said defendants which existed on the
18th day of November, 1874, excepting such debts, if any, as are
by said law excepted from the operation of a discharge in bankruptcy.

.

.

.

And the defendants furtbcr allege

that the

claim and indebtedness set forth in the plaintiffs' complaint
herein, is one that was discharged by the operation of said bankruptcy discharge, and was provable in said bankruptcy proceedings, and was not one which was exempt from the operation of
the bankruptcy statutes."

Copies of the certificates of discharge were annexed to the
answer.

The parties thereupon went to trial, and the facts disclosed
by the evidence were substantially in accordance with the
above statement. The certificates of discharge of the defendants were given in evidence under objections; and the plaintiff

asked to go to the jury on the question, as to whether the debt
was created by fraud, and also on the question whether it was

a .debt created by the defendants while acting in a fiduciary

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

character; both of which requests were refused, and the court
directed the jury to render a verdict for the defendants; to all
which rulings and directions plaintiffs duly excepted. Judgment being entered for the defendant, the plaintiffs appealed
to the Court of Appeals of New York, which affirmed the judgment, and remitted the record to the Superior Court. The
plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. C. Bainbridge Smith for plaintiff in error.
Xr. William A. Abbott for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
We have to decide the question, whether a discharge in
bankruptcy under the act of 1867 operates to discharge the
bankrupt from a debt or obligation which arises from his appropriating to his own use collateral securities deposited with
him as security for the payment of money or the performance
of a duty, and his failure or refusal to return the same after
the money has been paid or the duty performed? or, whether
a debt or obligation thus incurred is within the meaning of the
33d section of said act § 5117 Rev. Stat., which declares that
"no debt created by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in
any fiduciary character, shall be discharged under this act?"
The New York courts decided that the effect of the discharge
in bankruptcy was to discharge the debt, holding that the debt
was not created by fraud, nor by embezzlement, nor whilst the'
bankrupt was acting in a fiduciary character.
The question first came up for discussion in the case upon an
order for arresting the defendants, on a charge that the debt
was fraudulently contracted. After obtaining their discharge
in bankruptcy, the defendants moved to vacate the order of
arrest, which motion the Superior Court denied; but the Court
of Appeals reversed this judgment, and granted the motion.
The opinion of the court on this occasion is reported in 77 N.
Y. 427, and was referred to as the ground of judgment when
the case finally came up on its merits.

HENNEQUIN v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

The question, so far as relates to the principle involved, is
not a now one. It came up for consideration under the bankrupt act of 1841, which withheld the benefits of the act from
all debts "created by the bankrupt in consequence of a defalcation as a public officer, or as executor, administrator, guardian,
or trustee, or while acting in any other fiduciary capacity ;" 5
Stat. 441, § 1; and which further declared (amongst other
things) that no person should be entitled to a discharge who
should "apply trust funds to his own use." lb. § 4. In the
case of C/ap-man v. Forsyth, 2 How. 202, these clauses were
brought before this court for examination. The case was an
action of assumpsit for the proceeds of 150 bales of cotton
shipped to and sold by the defendants as brokers or factors of
the plaintiff. One of the defendants pleaded a discharge in
bankruptcy, and the judges of the Circuit Court were divided
in opinion on the question whether a commission merchant or
factor, who sells for others, is indebted in a fiduciary capacity
within the act, if he withholds the money received for property
sold by him, and if the property is sold, and the money received
on the owner's account. The opinion of this court was delivered by Mr. Justice McLean, and the above question was answered in the following terms: "If the act embrace such a debt,
it will be difficult to limit its application. It must include all
debts arising from agencies; and, indeed, all cases where the
law implies an obligation from the trust reposed in the debtor.
Such a construction would have left but few debts on which
the law could operate. In almost all the commercial transactions of the country, confidence is reposed in the punctuality
and integrity of the debtor, and a violation of these is. in a
commercial sense, a disregard of a trust. But this is not the
relation spoken of in the first section of the act. The cases
enumerated, Ithe defalcation of a public officer,' 'executor,'
' administrator,' 'guardian,' or 'trustee,' are not cases of implied, but special trusts, and the 'other fiduciary capacity' mentioned, must mean the same class of trusts. The act speaks of
technical trusts, and not those which the law implies from the
contract. A factor is not, therefore, within the act. This
view is strengthened, and, indeed, made conclusive by the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

vision of the fourth section, which declares that no 'merchant,
banker, factor, broker, underwriter, or marine insurer,' shall be
entitled to a discharge, 'who has not kept proper books of
accounts.' In answer to the second question, then, we say,
that a factor, who owes his principal money received on the
sale of his goods, is not a fiduciary debtor within the meaning
of the act."
This decision was, of course, authoritative; it was not only
followed, but approved by the highest courts of several of the
States. In layma v. Pond, 7 Metc. (Mass.) 328, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, speaking through Chief Justice
Shaw, after referring to the decision in Chapman v. Forsyth,
said: "We have no doubt that this is the true construction of
the law." In Austill v. Crawford, 7 Ala. 335, and in Commercial Bank v. Buclner, 2 La. Ann. 1023, the same views
were expressed, though the contrary was held in -latteson v.
Iellogy, 15 Ill. 547, and in ]Yiagg v. Ely, 1 Edmonds, N. Y.
Select Ca. 206.
Under the act of 1867 a series of diverse rulings by different
courts arose on the subject; one class treating agents, factors,
commission merchants, &c., as acting in a fiduciary character
under the act; on the view that the act was conceived in broader
and more general terms than the act of 1841; the other class
taking the view that the act of 1867 used the phrase, "acting
in any fiduciary character," in the sense which it had received
by construction in the act of 1841. The cases on both sides of
the question are collected in Bump's Law of Bankruptcy, under
see. 33 of the original Bankrupt Act of 1867, section 5117 of
the Revised Statutes, pp. 742-745, 10th edition. Those taking
the first view are In re Seymnour, 1 Benedict, 348; In re Kimball, 2 Benedict, 554; S.C., 6 Blatch. 292; Wldtlakcr v. COhapman, 3 Lansing, 155; Lemcke v. Booth, 47 Missouri, 385; Gray
v. Farran,2 Cincin. Sup. Ct. 426; Treadwell v. lbolloway, 12
Bank. Reg. 61 ; Jeader v. Sharp, 54 Geo. 125 ; S.C., 14 Bank.
IReg. 492; Benning v.Bleakley, 27 La. Ann. 257. Those taking
the other view are Woolsey v. Cade, 15 Bank. Reg. 238 ; Owsley
v. Cobin, do. 489; Cronan v. Cotting, 104 Mass. 245. We have
examined these cases, and others bearing on the subject, but do

IIENNEQUIN v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

not deem it necessary to refer to them more particularly, inasmuch as the question has recently been fully considered by this
court, and the decision in C/lcipman v. _Forsyth has been followed.
We refer to the case of Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704, reversing the decision of the Court of Appeals of Virginia in Jones
v. Clark, 25 Gratt. 642. This case involved the meaning and
application of the word "fraud," in the clause under consideration,-" no debt created by frcaud or embezzlement of the
bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while
acting in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged, &c."
An executor sold certain bonds which he had received on the
sale of the property belonging to the estate, the proceeds of
which the will directed him to distribute in a certain way.
The sale of the bonds was held by the State court to have been
a misappropriation of them, amounting to a devastavit, in
which Neal, the purchaser, was held to be a participant and
liable to account for the value of the bonds purchased; not because he was guilty of any actual fraud, but because, in view
of the circumstances attending his purchase, he had committed
constructive fraud. Neal had in the meantime obtained his
discharge in bankruptcy, which lie pleaded in bar to a recovery
against him; but the State court held that "fraud," in the 33d
section of the bankrupt act (of 1867), included both constructive
and actual fraud, and overruled his plea. We reversed the
judgment of the State court on this point, and decided that
Neal was entitled, under the circumstances of the case, to the
benefit of his discharge in bankruptcy. Adopting and applying the reasoning of the court in C/ialmnan v. Forsyth, we said,
"that in the section of the law of 1867 which sets forth the
classes of debts which are exempted from the operation of a
discharge in bankruptcy, debts created by 'fraud' are associated directly with debts created by ' embezzlement.'
Such
association justifies, if it does not imperatively require, the
conclusion that the 'fraud' referred to in that section means
positive fraud, or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or
intentional wrong, as does embezzlement; and not implied
fraud, or fraud in law, which may exist without the imputation
of bad faith or immorality."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The question came before us again in 1Volf v. Stix, 99 U. S.
1, in which a sale of goods to Wolf by an insolvent firm was set
aside as fraudulent against creditors, and Wolf and his sureties
were then sued on the bond given by him for a return of the
goods when attached at the commencement of the proceedings.
Wolf having in the meantime become bankrupt, and obtained
his discharge, pleaded the same in bar of the action. We held
the plea to be a good one to the action on the bond.
The present case is not precisely like either that of Cliapntanv.
Forsylh, or JVeal v. Clark; but it is very difficult to distinguish
it, in principle, from the cases of commission merchants and
factors failing to account for the proceeds of property committed to them for sale. There is no more-there is not so
much-of the character of trustee, in one who holds collateral
securities for a debt, as in one who receives money from the
sale of his principal's property-money which belongs to his
principal alone, and not to him, and which it is his duty to
turn over to his principal without delay. The creditor who
holds a collateral, holds it for his own benefit under contract.
He is in no sense a trustee. His contract binds him to return
it when its purpose as security is fulfilled ; but if he fails to
do so, it is only a breach of contract, and not a breach of trust.
A mortgagee in possession is bound by contract, implied if not
expressed, to deliver up possession of the mortgaged premises
when his debt is satisfied; but he is not regarded as guilty of
breach of trust if he neglects or refuses to do so, but only of a
breach of contract.
The English authorities are more in accord with the decisions in this country which take a different view from our own
on this question. The Debtor's Act of 1869, 32 & 33 Vict.,
ch. 62, abolished imprisonment for debt, except in the case of
statutory penalties, and when arising from the default of a
trustee or person acting in a fiduciary capacity, who has been
ordered by a court of equity to pay money in his possession or
under his control; and except defaults of attorneys and solicitors, and some other special delinquents. The Bankrupt Act
of the same date, 32 & 33 Vict., ch. 71, declares that the order
of discharge of a bankrupt shall not release him'from any debt

HENNEQUIN v. CLEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

or liability incurred or forborne by means of any fraud or
breach of trust. § 49. Under these statutes, where an agent
failed to pay over moneys collected for his principal, Sir George
Jessel said, "no doubt this debt was incurred by fraud."
Pashderv. Viwent, 8 Chan., Div. 825. The same doctrine was
held in lfarris v. Ingraim, 13 Chan. Div., 838, where a son was
in the management of his father's farm, and sold part of the
stock and received the proceeds. After his father's death, being
ordered to pay over the money, and failing to do so, he was
held to be a person acting in a fiduciary capacity. In Middleton v. Chiolbester, 19 Weekly Reporter, 369, Lord Ilatherly said
that "the exceptions [in the Debtor's Act] are all referable, not
to debts payable snpmlioiter,but to debts contracted in a manner
in some degree subject to observation as being worthy of being
treated with punishment. . . . In every case we find
some shade of misconduct; something of the character of delinquency, though varying in description."
For other English cases arising under the acts referred to,
see Ex parte lVood, re Chapman, 21 W. R. 71 ; Re _parte
Ifooson, do. 21 W. R. 152; S. C. L. R., 8 Ch. 231; Cobhanb v. Dalton, L. R. 10, Ch. 655 ; in re Deere, Atty. do. 658 ;
Ex _parte Halford in re Jaceobs, L. R. 19, Eq. 436 ; Phosphate Co.
v. i-artmount, 25 W. R. 743; Earl of iewee v. Barnett, 6 Ch.
Div. 252; Barrett v. larmmond, 10 Ch. Div. 285; Ex pare
h1emming in re Clatterton, 13 Ch. Div. 163; Fisher's Dig.
Supp. by Chitty, tit. Debtor's Act, Col. 1287.
It is evident that the English courts regard many transactions as frauds or breaches of trust under their statutes, which
we do not hold to be such under our bankrupt acts. Perhaps
the liberal construction made in favor of the certificate of discharge in this country is due to the peculiar modes and habits
of business prevailing amongst our people. It is, no doubt,
true, as said in C(hapman v. Forsyth. that a construction of the
excepting clauses which would make them include debts arising
from agencies and the like, would leave but few debts on which
the law could operate. At all events, we think that the previous decisions of this court, and of the State courts in the same
direction, accord with the true spirit and meaning of the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Congress, and with the necessities of our business conditions
and arrangements.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York is
Affirmcd.

WILLIAMS & Another v. MORGAN & Another, Trustees.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued October 30th, 31st, 1883.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Appeal-Jurisdiction---Parlies.
A decree in a suit in a circuit court for the foreclosure of a railroad, fixing
the compensation to be paid to the trustees under the mortgage from the
fund realized from the sale, is a final decree as to that matter, and this court
has jurisdiction on appeal.
A holder of railroad bonds secured by a mortgage under foreclosure, has an
interest in the amount of the trustee's compensation which entitles him to
intervene, and to contest it, and to appeal from an adverse decision.
When purchasers at a sale of a railroad under foreclosure purehase under an
agreement, recognized by the court and referred to in the decree, that a
new mortgage shall be issued after the sale, a part of which is to be applied
to the payment of the foreclosure debt and a part to the payment of expenses, which expenses include the compensation of the trustees under the
mortgage foreclosed, the purchasing committee named in that agreement
have an interest in fixing that compensation which entitles them to intervene, and to be heard, and to appeal from an adverse decision.
On the facts in this case the allowances made below are held to be excessive.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mfr. J. Ilubley Ashdon (f-r. James Tltomson was with him) for

appellants.
-Mr.John A. Cam)bell, YN-r. John,E. Parsons,and iIi. George

De Forest Lord for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

