OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

government have been largely increased, and this circumstance,
perhaps, suggests the reason why the legislative department
has not fixed any day for the final execution of the act of 1836.
Be the reason what it may, we are of opinion that the Secretary of the Treasury has no authority under existing legislation and without further direction from Congress, to use the
surplus revenue in the treasury, from whatever source derived,
or whenever, since January 1st, 1839, it may have accrued, for
the purpose of making the fourth instalment of deposit required
by the act of 1836.
The petition for a mandamus must, consequently, be denied.
It is so ordered.

STEVENS v. GRIFFITH.
IN

ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

Submitted February 4th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Rebellion.
A judgment of a Confederate court during the rebellion confiscating a claim
due to a loyal citizen residing in a loyal State, and payment of the claim to
a Confederate agent in accordance with the judgment, are no bar to a recovery of the claim. Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176, and 102 U. S. 248,
cited and its principal points restated and affirmed.

This was an action in a State court in Tennessee to recover
a legacy bequeathed the plaintiff by a will proved in Monroe
County, Tennessee, in 1859. The defence set up a judgment
of a Confederate court, during the rebellion, confiscating the
legacy and payment of the judgment. The defence was overruled in the court below where the original trial was had, and
sustained in the Supreme Court of Tennessee on appeal. The
plaintiff below then sued out this writ of error.
)'Jr.James X Durham for plaintiff in error.

No brief filed for defendant in error.

STEVENS v. GRIFFITH.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
In October, 1858, Jesse Rhea died in Tennessee, leaving a
will containing various legacies to parties residing in that State,
and in Illinois and California. The will was admitted to
probate in 1859, and the defendant Griffith, one of the executors
named therein, qualified and entered upon the discharge of his
duties. In the course of the two years following, the effects
and property of the estate were converted into money, its debts
settled, and the portions paid to which the legatees in Tennessee
were entitled. The executor was desirous of paying the balance
to the legatees in Illinois and California; but owing to the
civil war, he could not communicate with them nor remit the
money. In 1863, whilst this balance was still in his possession,
he was notified, under proceedings of a court at Knoxville,
Tennessee, established by the Confederate government, to pay
the amount to a Confederate agent. On his refusal, suit was
brought against him in that court, and judgment recovered for
the amount, under a law of the Confederate Congress, passed
to sequestrate and confiscate the property of residents of ihe
loyal States. Upon this judgment, he paid over the money.
In 1867, legatees in Illinois commenced two suits in equity
against him and the sureties on his bond to compel the payment
of their share of the estate. These suits were consolidated, and
he set up in bar the judgment of the Confederate court, and
averred that the State of Tennessee was then in the hands of
the rebel authorities, both civil and military; that he was
threatened by them with punishnent if he did not comply with
the judgment; that he believed it would be dangerous to refuse
compliance; that the officers had the power to seize his property, and to arrest and imprison him; and that under his fears
he paid the money.
The question, whether the payment, under these circmnstances, constitutes a bar to the relief prayed is closed by previous adjudications of this court. The effect of confiscation
proceedings of the insurrectionary government to protect a
party who during the war paid under them to Confederate
agents moneys owing to citizens of loyal States, was much considered in lTVliams v. -Br?( , 96 U. S. 176. That was an
A/R. JUSTICE FIELD

VOL. cxi-4

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

action for goods sold by the plaintiffs, residents of Pennsylvania,
in March, 1861, to a resident of Virginia, and he having died
was brought against the administrator of his estate. The defendants set up in bar the organization of the Confederate government; the existence of war between it and the United
States ; its enactment of a law providing for the sequestration of
the effects, credits, and property of residents in the loyal States,
termed alien enemies, and making it a misdemeanor for a person
having or controlling any such property to refuse to give information of it to the receiver of the Confederate States, and
place the same, so far as practicable, in his hands; that this law
being in force, the intestate, in January, 1862, paid the amount
claimed to such receiver; and also that the debt due was
sequestrated by a decree of a Confederate district court in Virginia, upon the petition of the receiver, who afterwards
collected it with interest. The courts in Virginia sustained the
defence, but this court reversed their decision, and subsequently
directed judgment for the plaintiffs. 102 U. S. 248. In the
extended consideration given to the questions presented, we
held tiat the Confederate government, formed in the face of
the prohibition of the Constitution against any treaty, alliance,
or confederation of one State with another, could not be regarded as having any legal existence; that whatever efficacy
the enactment pleaded possessed in Virginia arose from the
sanction given it by that State. If enforced as a law there it
would be considered, as a statute, not of the Confederacy, but
of the State, and treated accordingly. Any enactment, to
which a- State gives the force of law, whether it has gone
through the usual stages of legislative proceedings, or been
adopted in other modes of expressing the will of the State, is a
statute of the State within the meaning of the acts of Congress
touching our appellate jurisdiction. As a statute of Virginia,
it was repugnant to the Constitution; and the decision of the
courts of that State, sustaining its validity, gave us jurisdiction
to review their judgment. It not only impaired the obligation
of the contract of the deceased with the plaintiffs, but it undertook to relieve him from all liability to them. It also discriminated against them as citizens of a loyal State, and refused to

STEVENS v. GRIFFITH.
Opinion of the Court.

them the same privileges accorded to citizens of Virginia,
contrary to the clause of the Constitution declaring that "the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States."
So, in this case, the Confederate enactment, under which the
confiscation of the money was had, can be treated only as a
statute of Tennessee, by whose sanction it was enforced as a
law of that State. As such it was repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States. It authorized the seizure
and confiscation of the property of loyal citizens upon no other
ground than their loyalty, and for the purpose of raising funds
to support an armed rebellion against the authority of the
United States. No opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is in the record, but its decision sustaining the defence was
necessarily in favor of the validity of the enactment. Our
jurisdiction, therefore, attaches to review its judgment.
There can be no question of the right of the plaintiff in error
to recover her share of the estate which belonged to her deceased mother, one of the legatees under the will, against any
defence founded upon the proceedings pleaded. Viewed from
the standpoint of the Constitution, the Confederate govern.
ment was nothing more than the military representative of the
insurrection against the authority of the United States. The
belligerent rights conceded to it in the interest of humanity, to
prevent the cruelties which would have followed mutual reprisals and retaliations, were, from their nature, such only as existed during the war. Their concession led to arrangements
between the contending parties to mitigate the calamities of
the contest. It placed those engaged in actual hostilities on
the footing of persons in legitimate warfare; but it gave no
sanction to hostile legislation, and in no respect impaired the
rights of loyal citizens of a loyal State. Their right and their
title to property which they possessed in the insurrectionary
States before the war were not thereby divested or rendered
liable to forfeiture. Their visible and tangible property may
have been destroyed by violence or seized by insurgents and
carried away; and in such cases the occupants or parties in
possession may perhaps be relieved from liability, as having

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

been subjected to a force too powerful to be resisted. "But,"
as said in Williams v. Brufy, "debts not being tangible things
subject to physical seizure and removal, the debtors cannot
claim release from liability to their creditors by reason of the
coerced payment of equivalent sums to an unlawful combination. The debts can only be satisfied when paid to the creditors to whom they are due, or to others by direction of lawful
authority." And, as we there observed, ' It would be a strange
thing if the nation, after succeeding in suppressing the rebellion
and re-establishing its authority over the insurrectionary district, should, by any of its tribunals, recognize as valid the
demand of the rebellious organization to confiscate a debt due
to a loyal citizen as a penalty for his loyalty. Such a thing
would be unprecedented in the history of unsuccessful rebellions, and would rest upon no just principle."
In the consideration of transactions between citizens of the
insurrectionary districts, no disposition has been manifested by
this court, and none exists, to interfere with the 'regular administration of the law, or with the ordinary proceedings of society
in their varied forms, civil or political, except when they tended
to impair the just authority of the general government, or the
rights of loyal citizens. Transactions which thus affect the
government or the individual can never be upheld in any tribunal which recognizes the Constitution of the United States as
the supreme law of the land.
INeither the unlawful proceedings of the Confederate government nor the judgment of its unauthorized tribunal exempts
the executor from liability. It may, indeed, as he asserts, be a
hardship upon him to compel him to pay the money again
which he has once paid to others. This hardship, however,
comes not from the regular administration of the law under
the Constitution, but from the violence of the insurrectionary
movement in which he participated. As Chief Justice Chase
said: "Those who engage in rebellion must consider the consequences. If they succeed, rebellion becomes revolution, and
the new government will justify its founders. If they fail, all
their hostile acts to the rightful government are violations of
law, and originate no rights which can be recognized by the

LITHOGRAPHIC CO. v. SARONY.
Statement of Facts

courts of the nation whose authority and existence have been
alike assailed." Slotbridge v. il/acon, Chase's Decisions, 136.
The executor cannot escape the consequences of the insurrection in the community of which he was a member, whatever
may have been his individual feelings and wishes as to its
action. Besides, also, if questions of hardship are to be considered, the plaintiff might put in her claim there.
Tle judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed,and the
cause remanded, with direetions to afirm the decree of the
Chancery Court of lonroe County, so far as concerns the
claim of the plainff Eizca Stevens, who alone has brought
the ease here; and it is so ordered.

BURROW-GILES LITHOGRAPHIC COMPANY v. SA-

RONY.
IN

ERROR TO TIlE CIRCUIT
SOUTHERN

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT

FOR THE

OF NEW YORK.

Submitted December 13th, 1883.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Copyright.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress to confer upon the author,
inventor, designer, or proprietor of a photograph the rights conferred by
Rev. Stat. 4952, so far as the photograph is a representation of original
intellectual conceptions.
The object of the requirement in the act of June 18th, 1874, 18 Stat. 78, that
notice of a copyright in a photograph shall be given by inscribing upon
some visible portion of it the words Copyright, the date, and the name
of the proprietor, is to give notice of the copyright to the public ; and a
notice which gives his surname and the initial letter of his given name is
sufficient inscription of the name.
Whether a photograph is a mere mechanical reproduction or an original work
of art is a question to be determined by proof of the facts of originality, of
intellectual production, and of thought and conception on the part of the
author ; and when the copyright is disputed, it is important to establish
those facts.

This was a suit for an infringement of a copyright in a
photograph of one Oscar Wilde. The defence denied the constitutional right of Congress to confer rights of authorship on

