OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

LOVELL & Another v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDI)LE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted March 14th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Contract-Damages-Insurance.
A policy of life insurance containing a provision that a default in payment of
premiums shall not work a forfeiture, but that the sum insured shall then
be reduced and commuted to the annual premiums paid, confers the right on
the assured to convert the policy at any time, by notice to the insurer, into a
paid-up policy for the amount of premiums paid.
The neglect to pay a premium on a policy of life insurance will not work a forfeiture of the policy if the neglect was caused by a representation made in
good faith but without authority by an agent of the insurer that it would
be converted by his principal into a paid-up policy on the basis of the
premiums already paid in.
On the termination of its business by a life insurance company, and the transfer
of its assets and policies to another company, each policy holder may, if lie
desires, terminate his policy and maintain an action to recover from the
assets such sum as he may be equitably entitled to.
In such case the measure of damages will be the amount of premiums paid
less the value of the insurance of which he enjoyed the benefit.
When one party to an executory contract prevents the performance of it, or
puts it out of his own power to perform it, the other party may regard it as
terminated, and demand whatever damages le has sustained thereby.
United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 339, cited and affirmed.

This case was commenced by a bill in chancery filed by the
appellants, Lovell and wife, citizens of Tennessee, against the
St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company and the St. Louis
Life Insurance Company, for relief in relation to a certain
policy of insurance issued by the former company through an
agent at Nashville, Tennessee, to Lovell on his own life for the
sum of $5,000, for the benefit of his wife, and to be paid to her
on his death. The policy was dated the 24th of April, 1868,
and stipulated for the payment of an annual preinium of
$162.14, payable (in the words of the instrument) as follows:
"An annual premium note of $53, and a semi-annual cash
premium of $54.57 on the 24th days of April and October, the

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

265

Statement of Facts.

first one of said notes, and the first semi-annual cash premium,
commencing with the date of this policy." There was a condition in the policy that if, after the payment of the first three
annual premiums, a default should be made in the payment of
the annual premiums thereafter to become due, then (in the
words of the condition) "such default shall not work a forfeiture
of this policy, but the sum of $5,000, the amount insured, shall
be then commuted or-reduced to the sum of the annual premiums
paid." After setting out the policy the bill stated the following facts. The premiums called for by the policy were all
paid down to and including the 24th of April, 1873; a new
premium note being given at the end of each year, and any
dividends due to the insured being credited thereon, the company being a mutual one. At, or shortly after, the last payment (which was made to one Foote, agent of the company at
Louisville, Kentucky, the agency at Nashville having been discontinued), Lovell made known to Foote his desire to receive a
paid-up policy for what he was entitled to, and a return of his
premium note; he and the agent agreeing, as bad also been
represented by the agent at Nashville, on the issuing of the
policy, that all the money he had paid by way of premiums
(amounting to $822 less the amount of his outstanding note)
would be credited to him, and that lie could have a paid-up
policy for such amount as that money under the regulations of
the company would entitle him to if he had paid it all at once
for a paid-up policy. With this view and understanding he
surrendered his policy to the agent, to be transmitted to the
home office at St. Louis and exchanged for a paid up policy
in its stead. Lovell being engaged in steamboating on the
Mississippi, gave the matter no further thought, supposing that
it would be all right. But after some time, he was surprised at
receiving notice to pay the interest on his note, and on going
to his home he found that instead of a paid-up policy, the
original policy had been returned with an indorsement on the
margin in the words and figures following:
"In default of payment of renewal premium due 24th October,
this policy is commuted and reduced to eight hundred and

1873,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

twenty-two dollars on condition that the interest on outstanding
premium notes is paid annually in advance.
"M. A. CAMPB ELL, Assignee."
The complainant, Lovell, went to the agent at Louisville and
protested against the course of the company, and insisted that
be was to have received a paid-up policy, and a return of his
note; but the agent told him that since the agreement made
with him for a paid-up policy the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company had sold out to the Mound City Life
Insurance Company (whose name was afterwards changed to
the St. Louis Life Insurance Company), and that such a thing
as issuing to him a paid-up policy, or even restoring or reinstating his policy, was wholly outside of the contract with the
Mound City Company, and that the policy was now forfeited.
The bill charged that after the original policy was surrendered for exchange as aforesaid, without the knowledge or
consent of complainant, the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance
Company sold and transferred its entire assets, name, good
will, &c., to the Mound City Life Insurance Company, before
any interest had accrued on his premium note. The complainant insisted that he had been guilty of no default that ought to
work a forfeiture of his policy; and that the money paid by
him on his policy should be refunded to him with interest, and
that his outstanding note should be delivered up to be cancelled.
The bill further stated that there was in the hands of William
Morrow, treasurer of the State of Tennessee, $20,000 of State
bonds, held as the property of the insurance company, under
the laws of Tennessee, as indemnity against loss to citizens of
Tennessee on life policies such as that of complainant; he
therefore prayed for an attachment and an injunction to hold
said fund subject to the orders of the court, until the claim of
the complainant should be satisfied. The bill concluded with a
prayer for general relief.
An attachment and injunction were issued as prayed, and the
defendants appeared and answered the bill.
The answer did not question the material averments of the
bill, and admitted that the affairs of the St. Louis Mutual Life

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

267

Statement of Facts.

Insurance Company having become greatly embarrassed, on the
7th of October, 1873, the superintendent of the Insurance Department of the State of Missouri filed in the Circuit Court of
St. Louis County a petition setting forth that the company was
insolvent and praying for an injunction against its carrying on
the business further, and that such an injunction was issued;
and that, in due course, the court pronounced the company insolvent and restrained it from reinsuring its risks without the
order and consent of the court. What further took place in
reference to the affairs of the company is shown by the following extracts from the joint answer of the two companies; that
is to say:
"In the progress of said matter said Frank P. Blair, superintendent as aforesaid, on December 13th, 1873, filed his motion
in said cause, praying said court to order said company to reinsure all the risks held by it in the Mound City Life Insurance
Company upon the terms set forth in said motion, and allow him
to dismiss his suit as aforesaid. Said terms were that said St.
Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company should transfer to said
Mound City Life Insurance Company all of its assets, real, personal, or mixed, wheresoever situated, and that in consideration
of said transfer said Mound City Life Insurance Company, whose
name was afterward changed to the St. Louis Life Insurance
Company, should reinsure all risks of said St. Louis Mutual Life
Insurance Company, and assume all its liabilities, and should for
these purposes increase its capital stock to the sum of $1,000,000,
such increase to be secured and paid according to the laws of the
State of Missouri, and to the satisfaction of said superintendent.
Said motion was duly considered by said court, and was ultimately
granted.
"No policy holder of said St. Louis 'Mutual Life Insurance
Company, and no stockholder therein, appeared in opposition
thereto, or made any objections, and said arrangement was
accordingly fully consummated and carried out according to the
terms of said motion.
"And said St. Louis Life Insurance Company in good faith
undertook, andis now undertaking, so to carry out said arrangement, and to perform all the terms and conditions, covenants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

promises, and agreements thereof. All the stockholders of the
said St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company have, in good
faith, accepted the said transfer and reinsurance under the order
of said court, and a very large majority of its policy holders, to
wit, more than 8,000, have surrendered their policies in it, and
accepted policies in lieu from the St. Louis Life Insurance
Company, which is, moreover, by the terms of its contract with
the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company, so approved as
aforesaid, directly liable on any and all policies issued by said
last mentioned company to the same extent as itself would have
been.

.

.

.

"Said contract was made and said transfer and assumption of
liabilities executed, and said increase of capital stock made on or
before January 17th, 1874."

Lovell, being sworn as a witness in the cause, fully verified
all the allegations of the bill, and there was no conflicting
evidence. Ile showed that when he surrendered his policy to
be exchanged for a paid-up policy, in April, 1873, it was with
the distinct understanding, both of himself and the agent of
the company, that he was entitled to, and would receive, a paidup policy for an amount which the aggregate sum of premiums
paid, less the premium note, would purchase if paid as a single
premium, and would also receive his premium note; and that
the company kept his policy from the time of its surrender in
April until after October, and after the company had become
insolvent and bad been put under injunction, without giving
him any notice that he would not receive what he supposed
himself entitled to.
The cause came on to be heard before the circuit judge and district judge, holding the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Mliddle District of Tennessee, and the judges differing in
opinion upon the questions arising in the case, in accordance
with the opinion of the circuit judge, the bill of complaint was
dismissed; and the following questions were certified for the
opinion of this court, to wit:
"1st. Whether during the lifetime of complainant, James W.

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

269

Opinion of the Court.
Lovell, any suit is maintainable upon the policy of life insurance
set forth in the record in this case.
"2d. Whether the insolvency of the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company and its contract of reinsurance of December,
1873, with the Mound City Life Insurance Company, accompanied
by the transfer of the assets of the former to the latter company,
as set forth in the record of this case, operated to confer upon
complainants, or either of them, any right of action or suit against
the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company, or against the St.
Louis Life Insurance Company.
"3d. Whether, if so, complainants can maintain this suit upon
this record apart from the other policy holders of said St. Louis
Mutual Life Insurance Company, whose policies were in force at
the time of said reinsurance transaction, and who, equally with
complainants, dissented therefrom."

.Mr1. Andr'ew JYc Claim for appellants.
J11.. -R. ZiI-eP.

Nmith for appellees.

MR. JUST.CE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the foregoing language he continued:

The first and main question is, whether, under all the circumstances, including the insolvency of the company and the
transfer of its business to another company, the complainants
are entitled to any relief. What they ask is a return of the
money actually paid on the policy, with interest, and a surrender of the prenimn note; but, if not entitled to this relief,
are they entitled, under the general prayer, to relief in any
form?
We are satisfied that when Lovell surrendered his policy in
April, 1873, for the purpose of having it exchanged for a paidup policy, he exercised a right which the condition of the
policy gave him. It is true the precise terms of the condition
are, that the policy shall be commuted in case default is made
in the payment of any premium; but as the making of a
default is entirely optional with the insured, it follows that the
conversion of the policy from an annual-premium policy to a
paid-up policy, is at the option of the insured, at any time after

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the payment of the first three annual premiums. Though in
no default, he may elect to pay no more premiums, and may
give notice to the company to that effect; for it is the exercise
of his option against his own interest; since it would be his
interest to hold the policy for its whole amount until the
maturity of the next premium, and then to make default. But
the greater always includes the less. The right to have the
policy commuted and reduced to a paid-up policy, by making
a default in the payment of a premium, in legal effect includes
the right to have it so commuted and reduced by electing at
any time to make such default and giving due notice to the
company of such election.
At all events, neither the agent of the company, nor the
company itself, made any objection to the surrender of the
policy at the time when it was actually surrendered for the
purpose of exchange.
But it is clear that both Lovell and the agent of the company
labored under a mutual mistake as to the amount of the paidup policy to which Lovell was entitled. They supposed that
he was entitled to a paid-up policy for such amount as the sum
of the premiums paid (less the premium note) would purchase,
if paid as a single premium; whereas the actual stipulation, or
condition, was that the sum insured should be commuted or reduced to the amount of the premiums themselves, not the
amount of insurance that they would purchase.
Now whilst it is true that the mutual mistake of Lovell and
the company's agent could not change the written stipulation,
nor bind the company to give Lovell a paid-up policy for a
greater amount than the sum of the premiums paid, yet as the
mistake was in fact made, and as Lovell surrendered his policy
under the influence of that mistake, and, as he testifies, with
the distinct understanding that he was to receive a new policy
corresponding to such mistaken view, and also to receive his
premium note for cancellation, it was the duty of the company,
either to have returned him his policy unchanged, or at least
to have given him notice of the mistake, so that he might have
had an opportunity of determining whether he would still have
his policy commuted or not. Good faith required this much

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

271

Opinion of the Court.

from the company. For, it must be presumed that their agent,
in transmitting the policy to the home office for the purpose
of being commuted and exchanged, communicated what had
passed between him and Lovell on the subject; and, at all
events, the communications made by Lovell to the agent were
notice to the company.
But nothing of the kind was done. The company neither
returned the policy, nor gave Lovell any notice that it would
not be commuted for the amount which he supposed and
expected it would be; and, of course, he was led to suppose that
everything was right, and that he would receive his paid-up
policy and note in due time. On the contrary, the company
kept the original policy for more than six months-from April
until October-until after they had gone or were forced into a
process of liquidation, and then some person, designating himself as assignee, made the indorsement on the policy which has
been referred to, declaring that, in default of payment of renewal premium due 24th October, 1873, the policy was commuted and reduced to $822, on condition that the interest on
outstanding premium notes should be paid annually in advance;
and because the interest was not paid on the premium note in
April, 1874, the parties having possession of the note, and who
had assumed the obligations of the company, declared the
policy altogether forfeited, and the complainant entitled to
nothing whatever.
It seems to us that the mere statement of the case is enough
to show the want of equity in the transaction on the part of the
companies, and the right of the complainants to some relief at
the hands of the court.
The sum of the matter is this: the complainant surrendered
his policy, as he had a right to do, for the purpose of having it
commuted to a paid-up policy; but he did so with the understanding between him and the agent of the company that the
paid-up policy was to be for such amount as the premiums paid
would purchase, and that his premium note should be returned
to him. So far as the amount of the paid-up policy was concerned, the complainant and the agent acted under a mutual
mistake; but the company kept the policy for six months

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

without giving the complainant any notice of the mistake, and
then, by indorsement on the policy, attempted to reduce it to
a different amount, subject to the payment of interest on the
premium note, and kept the note instead of delivering it up for
cancellation. In the mean time the company conveyed all its
assets to another company, and transferred to such other company all its business, and all interest in its outstanding policies, and completely and utterly put it out of its own power to
fulfil any of its obligations, and virtually went out of existence.
Under these circumstances we hold, first, that the complainant Lovell, was in no default, and that he did not forfeit his
rights under his policy; secondly, that he was under no obligation to continue his insurance, either under his original policy,
or under a paid-up policy, with the new company to which the
St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company transferred its business; thirdly, that since the latter company totally abandoned
the performance of the contract made with the complainant,
and transferred all its assets and business to another company,
and since the contract is executory and continuous in its nature,
the complainant had a right to consider the contract as at an
end, and to demand what was justly due to him by reason of
its abandonment by the company.
Our first conclusion, that the complainant was not in default,
and therefore that he forfeited no rights under his policy, is
based on the fact that when he elected to have his original
policy commuted to a paid-up policy, and surrendered it to the
company for that purpose without objection on its part, he had
no further duty to perform, and no further premium or interest
to pay; and, therefore, he could not make any default. He
became entitled to a paid-up policy of some amount or other.
If a difference arose between him and the company as to what
the amount was, he would have been entitled to change his
mind, and take back his original policy. The company being
presumably informed, through its agent, of the amount which
the complainant considered himself entitled to, should have
given him notice, if they did not agree to that amount. They
gave him no notice, but assumed to reduce his policy to
an amount different from that which he deemed his due, and

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

273

Opinion of the Court.

retained his note, which he expected to be delivered up to be
cancelled; and no notice of this procedure was communicated
to the complainant until after the company had been declared
insolvent, and had placed all of its assets and busincS3 out of
its hands. We think it clear that the complainant was in no
default whatever.
Our second conclusion, that the complainant was under no
obligation to continue his insurance in the new company, we
think is equally clear. Ie bad nothing to do with that company; it was a stranger to him. It is true that it received all
the old company's assets, and assumed all its obligations on
policies and otherwise; and the complainant was relegated to
the new company for the obtainment of his rights, whatever
they were. Dut that was a transaction between the companies
themselves, with which he had nothing to do; and under such
a total change of relations and parties, it would be most unreasonable that be should be compelled, against his will, or
with the alternative of abandoning all his rights, to continue
all his life to fulfil an executory contract by the payment of
premiums to a company to which he was a total stranger, and in.
which, perhaps, he reposed no confidence whatever, or to take
a paid-up policy in such company.
Still the complainant might be without other remedy than
that of accepting insurance in the new company, or of prosecuting the old and virtually defunct company, if it were not for
the fund deposited with the treasurer of Tennessee as indemnity to the citizens of that State holding policies in the company. The assignment of all its assets by the old company to
the new one upon the consideration of its obligations being
assumed by the new company, is somewhat analogous to an
assignment of property by a debtor for the benefit of his creditors, in which only those creditors who are preferred, or those
who choose to come in and participate in the fund assigned,
receive any benefit, whilst those who refuse to come in take
no benefit, preferring to retain their claim against the debtor.
So here, if the complainant does not choose to continue his
insurance with the new company, he would have no remedy
except against the old company (which is totally unable to
VOL. cxI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

respond) were it not for the fund which has been attached in
the hands of the State treasurer of Tennessee. To this fund
the complainant, being a citizen of Tennessee, had a right to
resort. The object of the laws of Tennessee in requiring the
fund to be placed on deposit with the treasurer was to protect
and indemnify its own citizens in their dealings with the company. The assignment to the new company in Missouri could
not deprive them of the right to this indemnity.
Our third conclusion is, that as the old company totally
abandoned the performance of its contract with the complainant by transferring all its assets and obligations to the new
company, and as the contract is executory in its nature, the
complainant had a right to consider it as determined by the act
of the company, and to demand what was justly due to him in
that exigency. Of this we think there can be no doubt.
Where one party to an executory contract prevents the performance of it, or puts it out of his own power to perform it,
the other party may regard it as terminated and demand whatever damage he has sustained thereby. We had occasion to
examine this subject in the recent case of United States v. Be/ian,
110 U. S. 339, to which we refer. It is unnecessary to discuss
it further here.
The question remains as to what is justly due to the complainant in this case, by reason of the contract being terminated by
the act of the company. Ile demands a return of all the
premiums paid by him, with interest, less the amount of his
premium note; and that said note shall be delivered up to be
cancelled. But we do not think that he is entitled to a return
of the full amount of his premiums paid. Ile had the benefit
of insurance upon his life for five years, and the value of that
insurance should be deducted from the aggregate amount of
his payments. In other words, the amount to which the complainant is entitled is, what is called and known in the life insurance business as the value of his policy at the time it was surrendered, with interest, less the amount of his premium note,
which should be surrendered and cancelled. The balance due
him will be small, but it will be something; and whatever it is,
he is entitled to it, as well as to a surrender of his premium

LOVELL v. ST. LOUIS MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO.

275

Opinion of the Court.

note; and his bill ought not to have been dismissed. The amount
due the complainant can easily be ascertained by the court
by calling in the aid of an expert, without the trouble and expense of a reference to a master. The equitable value of a policy, according to the age of the insured life at the time it was
issued, and the number of years it has run, is shown by the
ordinary tables used by every life insurance company, and there
can be no difficulty in ascertaining the amount in this case.
The point of time for calculating the value will be immediately
after the payment of the premium due on the 24th of April,
1873, five years having fully expired, and the first payment
being made on the sixth year.
The question has been raised whether the complainant can
maintain this suit alone, without bringing in all the other policy holders. We see no reason why not. It does not appear
that there are any other policy holders who have not accepted
the terms of the arrangement between the two companies, and
continued their policies in the new company. Nor does it appear but that the fund now in court is abundantly sufficient to
meet all demands upon it in favor of those for whose indemnity
it was deposited in the treasurer's office, without any abatement, or the necessity of a pro rata distribution.
Of course, the St. Louis Life Insurance Company is a proper
party to this suit, by reason of its claiming the fund attached
therein, as part of the assets of the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company assigned to it.
In conclusion, our opinion is, that the following answers
should be returned to the questions certified by the judges of
the Circuit Court, that is to say:
To the first: That during the lifetime of the complainant,
James W. Lovell, a suit is maintainable upon the policy of life
insurance set forth in the record, under the circumstances and
for the cause stated in this opinion.
To the second: That the insolvency of the St. Louis Mutual
Life Insurance Company, and its contract of reinsurance with
the Mound City Life Insurance Company, accompanied by the
transfer of all its assets to the latter company, as set forth in
the record, did operate to confer upon the complainants a

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

right of action against the said companies as stated in this
opinion.
To the third: That this suit may be maintained upon the
record presented therein, apart from the other policy holders of
the St. Louis Mutual Life Insurance Company.
It follows that
Tle decree of the ircuit Court must be reversed, and te
cause remandedforfurtherproceedingsin accordance with
this opinion ; and it is so ordered.

RECTOR v. GIBBON & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued March 19th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Hot Springs Jeservation-PublicLands-Estoppel.
The powers conferred upon the commissioners appointed under the "Act in
relation to the Hot Springs Reservation in the State of Arkansas" passed
March 3d, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, were analogous to those conferred upon the
Receiver and Register of the Land Office in cases of conflicting claims to
pre-emption.
The aim of Congress in statutes relieving parties from the consequences of defects in title has been to protect bona fide settlers, and not intruders upon
the original settlers, seeking by violence, or fraud, or breach of contract to
appropriate the benefit of their labor. The legislation in this respect and
the decisions of this court upon it reviewed.
The provision in ยง 5 of the act of March 3d, 1877, that the commissioners shall
"finally determine the right of each claimant or occupant," relates to the
legal title which under the act is to pass from the United States ; but it
does not preclude a court of equity, after issue of a patent in accordance
with the determination of the commissioners, from inquiring whether the
legal title from the United States is not equitably subject to a trust in favor
of other parties. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, cited and followed.
After the passage of the act of June 11th, 1870, 16 Stat. 149, referring the title
in the Hot Springs Reservation to the Court of Claims, but before the adjudications under it, A, who had been in possession of a tract in the reser.
vation for nearly forty years, leased it to B, with a covenant from B to surrender at the expiration of the term. In the proceedings under that act A's
title was adjudged invalid. Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S. 698. Under the

