OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

of the mop-head was attributable to the feature patented. So
the whole case ended, the rule was not followed, and the decree is therefore
Afflnmed.

BLACK, Administrator v. THORNE & Another.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

THE SOUTHERN

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

DISTRICT OF NEW

STATES

FOR

YORK.

Argued January 24th, 1884.-Dcidcd March 24th, 1884.

Damages-Patent.
Damages must be nominal in an action where the infringement of a patent
was established, and it appeared that other methods in common use produced the same results with equal faoility and cost, and there was no proof
of the exaction of a license fee for the use of the invention, and its general
payment.

This was a suit on the equity side of the court for the infringement of two patents, issued to the plaintiffs' intestate,
one for an alleged "new and useful improvement for burning
tan bark, bagasse, sawdust, and other kinds of fuel, in a wet
state, for the purpose of creating heat to generate steam, or to
be employed in heating or drying operations;" and the other
for a "new and useful improvement in furnaces, in using as
fuel bagasse and other carbonaceous substances, too wet to be
conveniently burned in the usual way," with a prayer that the
defendants may be decreed to account for and pay to the
plaintiffs the gains and profits derived from making and using
furnaces containing the inventions and improvements of the
deceased; and be enjoined from further infringement.
The defendants contested the validity of the patents, but the
court sustained them, and held that the defendants had infringed them by the use of furnaces containing the improvements patented in burning wet tan to generate heat employed
in the tanning of hides. It therefore decreed that the plaintiffs
recover the profits and gains which the defendants had made
from this use of the improvements, and ordered a reference to

BLACK v. THORNE.
Opinion of the Court.

a master, to take testimony on the subject and state an account
of them. It also granted the injunction prayed, restraining
further infringement.
The master took testimony on the subject, and reported that
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover from the defendants, as
profits made by them from the infringement, the cost or value
of the wood, which, but for the use of the patented inventions,
they would have burned in generating heat for their tanneries,
which amounted to over $44,000. Upon exceptions, this report was set aside, the court holding that the rule adopted to
ascertain the profits made was erroneous. Black v. Tlorne, 12
Elatchford, 20. The case was thereupon again sent to the
master, and further testimony was produced, upon which he
reported that there was no proof before him showing what
profits, if any, had been made by the defendants from the use
of the plaintiffs' improvements. This report was confirmed,
and a decree entered pursuant to it, that no profits were to be
recovered of the defendants. From this decree the case was
brought here by appeal.
lXr. Ciarlcs I.

Black for appellant.

Xr. D. B. Eaton for appellees.
AIR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the foregoing language he continued:
The question presented for our determination relates to the
correctness of these reports, the plaintiffs contending for the
first one, the defendants for the second.
The rule adopted by the master in his first report, to ascertain the profits made by the defendants from the use of the
improvements, was clearly wrong. The claims of the patents
were confined to the use of the improvements to produce heat
by the burning of wet fuel. The object sought was the production of heat. The question, therefore, was what advantage
in its production did the use of the improvements in burning
wet tan have over other known methods in common use of
producing the same result, that is, the same heat. So far as
the improvements by burning wet tan gave advantages ih pro-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

ducing heat over other methods, there was a profit or gain to
the defendants. We can suppose that such advantage might
arise from the rapidity with which the heat was produced, or
from the diminished cost of its production, or in various other
ways. The difference between the cost of generating heat by
the use of the improvements and wet tan, and the cost of producing it by the use of wood as a fuel, could not be the measure of profit, unless, with those improvements or with other
methods, wood was the only means besides wet tan of producing the same heat, and that was not shown. Other substances may have answered equally well as fuel.
On the second hearing before the master it was shown, and
he so found and reported, that there were methods and furnaces, other than those of the plaintiffs, and other than those
burning dry fuel alone, which would produce the same results
in generating heat, for the purposes for which the defendants
used the heat, and which methods and furnaces they had a
right to use, and that the saving to them, or profits made by
them, by the use of the plaintiffs' inventions, over the other
furnaces, was not proved. Such being the case, the report
could not have been otherwise than as it was.
It does not always follow, that because a party may have
made an improvement in a machine and obtained a patent for
it, another using the improvement and infringing upon the
patentee's rights will be muleted in more than nominal damages for the infringement. If other methods in common use
produce the same results, with equal facility and cost, the use
of the patented invention cannot add to the gains of the infringer, or impair the just rewards of the inventor. The inventor may indeed prohibit the use, or exact a license fee for
it, and if such license fee has been generally paid, its amount
may be taken as the criterion of damage to him when his rights
are infringed. In the absence of such criterion, the damages
must necessarily be nominal.

Decree jlirmed.

