BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
Statement of Facts.

BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Argued April 8th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Internal Improvements-Municipal Bonds.
Bonds issued by the county commissioners of a county in Nebraska, on behalf of a precinct in that county, to aid a company in improving the waterpower of a river for the purpose of propelling public grist-mills, arc issued
to aid in constructing a " work of internal improvement," within the meaning of the act of Nebraska, of February 15th, 1869, as amended by the act
of March 3d, 1870, Laws of 1869, p. 92; and Laws of 1870, p. 15; and
Gen. Stat. of 1873, ch. 35, p. 448.
Although, in such a bond and its coupons, the precinct is the promisor, a suit
to recover on such coupons is properly brought against the county.
Where such bonds purport, on their face, to be issued by the board of county
commissioners, on behalf of the precinct, and are signed by the chairman
of the board, and attested by its clerk, who is also the clerk of the county,
and are sealed with the seal of the county, and the coupons are signed
by such clerk, and the bonds refer to the coupons as annexed, the bonds
and coupons are issued by the county commissioners.

This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nebraska, by the plaintiff in
error against the county of Cuming, a body corporate of the
State of Nebraska, to recover the money due on coupons cut
from certain bonds. The case was tried on a petition and a
demurrer thereto, the latter alleging, as cause of demurrer, that
the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
By an act of the legislature of Nebraska, which was passed
and took effect February 15th, 1869, entitled "An Act to
enable counties, cities and precincts to borrow money on their
bonds, or to issue bonds to aid in the construction or completion of works of internal improvement in this State, and to
legalize bonds already issued for such purpose," as amended
by an act passed March 3d, 1870, Laws of 1869, p. 92; and
Laws of 1870, p. 15 ; and Gen. Stat. of 1873, chap. 35, p. 448,
it was provided as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

"Section 1. That any county or city in the State of Nebraska
is hereby authorized to issue bonds to aid in the construction of
any railroad, or other work of internal improvement, to an amount
to be determined by the county commissioners of such county or
the city council of such city, not exceeding ten per cent. of the
assessed valuation of all taxable property in said county or city :
Provided, the county commissioners, or city council, shall first
submit the question of the issuing of such bonds to a vote of the
legal voters of said county or city, in the manner provided by
chapter nine of the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska,
for submitting to the people of a county the question of borrowing money."

Section 2 enacted that the proposition of the question must
be accompanied by a provision to levy a tax annually for the
payment of the interest on the bonds as it should become due,
and that an additional amount should be levied and collected
to pay the principal of the bonds when it should become due;
section 3, that the proposition should state the rate of interest

the bonds should draw, and when the principal and interest
should be made payable; section 4, that if a majority of the
votes cast should be in favor of the proposition submitted, the
county commissioners or the city council should enter the
proposition and result of record, and publish notice of its adoption, and thereupon issue the bonds, which should continue a
subsisting debt against the county or city, until they should be
paid; and section 5, that the proper officers of the county or

city should cause to be annually levied, collected and paid to
the holders of the bonds a special tax on all taxable property
in the county or city, sufficient to pay the annual interest, as it
should become due, and, when the principal should become due,
such officers should in like manner collect an additional amount
to pay the same as it should become due. Section 7 was in
these words:
" Any precinct in any organized county of this State shall have
the privilege of voting to aid works of internal improvement, and
be entitled to all the privileges conferred upon counties and cities
by the provisions of this act ; and in such cases the precinct

BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
Statement of Facts.
election shall be governed in the same manner as is provided in
this act, so far as the same is applicable, and the county commissioners shall issue special bonds for such precinct, and the tax
to pay the same shall be levied upon the property within the
bounds of such precinct. Such precinct bond shall be the same
as other bonds, but shall contain a statement stating the special
nature of such bonds."
The petition counted on 188 coupons for $25 each, cut from
bonds of the following tenor:
$500.
United States of America.
Dated July 1st, 1875.
OF CUMING, State of Nebraska:
"COUNTY
(West Point Precinct Bond.)
"Know all men by these presents, that the West Point Precinct, in the county of Cuming and State of Nebraska, acknowledges itself indebted to the bearer hereof in the sum of five
hundred dollars for value received, which said sum the said West
Point Precinct promise and agree to pay to the bearer hereof at
the National Park Bank, in the city of New York, on the first
day of July, anno Domini 1895, and also interest thereon at the
rate of ten per cent. per annum semi-annually, on the first days of
January and July in each and every year ensuing the date hereof,
on presentation of the annexed coupons or interest warrants, as
they severally fall due, at the National Park Bank, in the city of
New York, in lawful money of the United States.
"This bond is one of a series of sixty bonds of five hundred
dollars each, amounting in the aggregate to thirty thousand dollars, issued by the West Point Precinct, of Cuming County, and
State of Nebraska, as authorized by a vote of its legal voters, and
in accordance with chapter 35 Revised General Statutes, approved.
February 15th, 1869, and (an) act setting aside the revenue
arising from the taxation of works of internal improvements to
pay the bonds issued to construct or complete the same.
"These bonds are issued to aid the West Point Manufacturing
Company inimproving the water-power of the Elkhorn River for
the purpose of propelling public grist-mills, and other works of
internal improvement of a public nature, in said West Point Precinct. To secure the payment of the principal and interest of
"No. 43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

said bonds, the annual revenue and all the taxable property of
said West Point Precinct is pledged.
"In testimony whereof, the board of county commissioners of
Cuming County, State of Nebraska, have caused this bond to be
signed on behalf of West Point Precinct, in the county of Cuming, and State of Nebraska, by its chairman, attested by its clerk,
who has affixed thereto the seal of the said county, at the clerk's
office in West Point, in the said county, this first day of July,
A. D. 1875.
"TIOIAS ROEH, Clerk.

C. L. SIcKE,

Chairman.

"(Cuming County seal, Nebraska.) "
Each coupon was in the following form:
" $25.00

$25.00.

"The West Point Precinct, Cuming County, State of Nebraska,
will pay the bearer twenty-five dollars, at the National Park Bank,
in the city of New York, on the first day of July, 1877, on bond
No. 43.
"No. 43.

THOMAs ROET, Clerk."

The coupons fell due as follows: 16 on July 1st, 1877, 43 on
January 1st, 1878, 43 on July 1st, 1878, 43 on January 1st,
1879, and 43 on July 1st, 1879. The petition alleges that on
the 1st of September, 1875, the defendant made, executed and
delivered the coupons, each of them being signed by the clerk
of the county, for semi-annual interest on the bond; and that
the bonds are special bonds of the county, issued by its board
of county commissioners, in behalf of West Point Precinct, a
voting district within and a part of the county, in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 35, General Statutes of Nebraska.
It sets out a copy of one of the bonds and copies of five of the
coupons. It avers that on the 1st of January, 1876, the plaintiff became the purchaser of all the coupons, in good faith and
for a valuable consideration, before they became due and payable; that the only works of internal improvement of a public
nature, for which the bonds were so issued to said company,
"were the improvement of the water-power of the said Elkhorn
River, for the purpose of propelling public grist-mills" in said
precinct in said county; that the improving of said water-

BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

power for said purpose "would and did render the water-power
of said river available and useful for propelling other works of
internal improvement of a public nature, which were or thereafter might be constructed and located upon the said river in
said precinct;" that, at the time of the sale and delivery of the
bonds to the plaintiff, he had "no notice or knowledge of any
other works of internal improvement of a public nature in aid
of which the said bonds were so issued, except the said works
specially mentioned and described in said bonds, viz., the improvement of the water-power of the Elkhorn River for the
purpose of propelling public grist-mills" in said precinct ; that
the bonds and their attached coupons were "issued and negotiated by the defendant under and by virtue of a majority vote
of the qualified voters of West Point Precinct, a local subdivision of said Cuming County, and in pursuance" of said act
of February 15th, 1869 ; and that "the improvement of the
water-power of the Elkhorn River, to aid which said bonds
were issued and negotiated, consisted in constructing a canal
for water-power purposes in said West Point Precinct."
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, to which ruling
the plaintiff excepted, and, as he refused to amend the petition,
the court dismissed the action and entered a judgment for the
defendant, for costs, and the plaintiff excepted to the judgment.
To review the judgment the plaintiff sued out a writ of error.
Mr. IFWalter . larned for plaintiff in error.
7k/jr. Urialb Bruner and 32'. R. F Stevenson for defendant
inerror.
AIR. JUSTICE BLATCIIFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
lie stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is urged against the right of the plaintiff to recover, that
in the bonds and coupons the West Point Precinct promises to
pay, and so the obligations are not those of the defendant and
it cannot be sued on them. This question was decided by this
court in Davenport v. County of Dodge, 105 U. S. 237, in regard to precinct bonds issued under the same statute, and it
was held that a suit against the county on coupons cut from

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

special bonds issued by the county commissioners for the precinct was a proper suit.
It is also contended that the statute (see. 7) required that
precinct bonds should be issued as special county bonds for the
precinct, by the county commissioners, and did not authorize
the chairman of the board and its clerk to issue the bonds;
that the county commissioners could not delegate their authority to sign and issue the bonds to any one else, or to one of
their number; and that precinct bonds signed by one of the
county commissioners, as chairman, and attested by the clerk
of the board, and coupons signed by some one as clerk, have no
validity. We see no force in these objections. The bonds bear
the seal of the county and purport to be issued by the board of
county commissioners, on behalf of the precinct. The bond
states that the board, in testimony of the statements in the
bond, has caused the bond to be signed on behalf of the precinct,
by the chairman of the board, and to be attested by the clerk
of the board (who appears, by the petition, to have been the
clerk of the county), and that such clerk has affixed thereto the
seal of the county. This was a sufficient compliance with the
statute. The commissioners, by statute, constituted " a board."
That was their official designation, when meeting to perform
any duties with which they were charged. Gen. Stat. of 1873,
chap. 13, sees. 7, 1.4, pp. 233, 234. The attestation of the bonds
by the signatures of the chairman and the clerk of the board,
and the county seal, was proper. It was not necessary that
all the commissioners should sign the bonds. What was done
was not an issuing of the bonds by the chairman and clerk. The
coupons, in the form in which they were issued, annexed to the
bond, were adopted as coupons, by the statement in the body
of the bond, and the question as to any one of them, when
detached, is only one of genuineness and identity. The bonds
are special bonds for the precinct, and contain a sufficient statement showing their special nature, that is, that they are special
bonds for the precinct.
It is also objected that the bonds state that they are issued
under the act of 1869, to aid the company in improving the
water-power of the river for the purpose of propelling public

BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

grist-mills "and other works of internal improvement of a
public nature" in the precinct ; and that the latter part of the
statement is indefinite, and the other works to be aided or inproved, or propelled, should be described or identified, so that
it may be seen they were works of internal improvement,
within the statute, and also because the proposition voted on
must, in order to be a lawful one, have stated what the specific
"other works" were. It is a sufficient answer to this objection
to say, that the petition states, and the demurrer admits, that
the only work of internal improvement of a public nature for
which the bonds were issued to the company, was the improvement of the water-power of the Elkhorn River for
the purpose of propelling public grist-mills in the precinct;
that the improving of such water-power for that purpose
rendered it available and useful for propelling other works of
internal improvement of a public nature, which were or thereafter might be constructed and located on that river in that
precinct; that the improvement of the water-power of that
river, to aid which the bonds were issued and negotiated, consisted in constructing a canal for water-power purposes in the
precinct; and that the bonds and their attached coupons were
issued and negotiated under and by virtue of a majority vote
of the qualified voters of the precinct, and in pursuance of the
act. Thus, there is a distinct statement as well as an admission,
that no work of internal improvement was covered by the vote
or the issue of the bonds, other than the one of improving such
water-power for the purpose of propelling public grist-mills in
the precinct. The statement in the bonds in regard to propelling other works of internal improvement of a public nature
in the precinct, is explained by the allegation in the petition
that the improving of the water-power for the purpose stated
rendered it available to propel other works of internal improvement of a public nature, then existing, or which might be constructed on the river within the bounds of the precinct. But
this was an incidental result, and aside from the only work in
aid of which, or purpose for which, the bonds were issued, as
existing, or as notified to, or known by, the plaintiff, at the
time of the sale and delivery of the bonds to him.
VOL. cx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It is also objected that improving the water-power of the
river, by constructing a canal for water-power purposes, is
merely digging a mill race, and that the doing so, for the purpose of propelling a public grist-mill in the precinct, is not constructing a work of internal improvement, within the statute.
We are not referred to any decision of the highest court of
Nebraska, made before the plaintiff became, on January 1st,
1876, the bona fide owner of these coupons, or even since,
holding in accordance with the contention of the defendant.
In Osborne v. County qf Adams, 106 U. S. 181, this court
decided, in November, 1882, that, under the same statute that
is in question here, bonds issued to aid in the construction of a
steam grist-mill were not issued to aid in the construction of a
work of internal improvement. There was a suggestion in the
opinion in that case, that the statute did not cover the construction of any kind of grist-mill as a work of internal improvement. During the same term a petition for rehearing
was filed, and the attention of the court was called to the case
of Traver v. Merrilck County, 14 Neb. 327, in which the
Supreme Court of Nebraska had held, at its January Term,
1883, that county bonds issued by county commissioners, under
the act of 1869, as a loan to an individual to aid in building a
public grist-mill and water-power in the county, were valid.
But this court adhered to its view that the act did not cover
the construction of a steam grist-mill, and denied the rehearing. Osborne v. Adams County, 109 U. S. 1.
In Union Paeific Railroad v. Commissioners, 4 Neb. 450, it
was held, in 1876, that a public wagon bridge, over the Platte
River, as an extension of a public highway, was a work of internal improvement, under the act of 1869, being a work from
the construction of which benefits were to be derived by the
public. But the court said that no authority existed to aid a
merely private enterprise. See, also, United States v. Dodge
County, 110 U. S. 156.
In Tlie State v. Thorne, 9 Neb. 458, 460, in 1880, it was
suggested that works of internal improvement, under the act,
might include railroads, turnpikes, canals, and numerous other
enterprises, not objects of private concern purely

BLAIR v. CUMING COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

In Dawson County v. -ITUVamar,10 Neb. 276, in 1880, it
was held that the building of a county court house was not a
work of internal improvement, under the act, and it was said
that "works of internal improvement" meant "only those
works within the State in which the whole body of the people
are supposed to be more or less interested, and by which they
may be benefited."
In Traver v. Aferrick Countly, before cited, the court considered the act of 1869 and the question whether a water gristmill was a work of internal improvement, within the meaning
of that act. It cited the provisions of an act "relating to mills
and mill dams," which passed and took effect February 26th,
1873, Gen. Stat. of 1873, chap. 44, p. 472, and especially sections 1, 2 and 24 to 29 of that act, as authorizing a person
who, in good faith, had expended a considerable sum of money
towards the erection of a grist-mill on a stream, to obtain an
injunction against the making by another person of a dam
across the same stream on his own land, the effect of which
would be to destroy the water-power of the former; and it
stated that, under the cases of NVosser v. Seeley, 10 Neb. 460,
and Seeley v. -Bridges,13 Id. 547, that was the settled law of
the State. The act of 1873 provides that all mills for grinding
grain, and which shall grind for toll, shall be deemed public
mills; that the owner or occupier of every public mill shall
grind the grain brought to his mill as well as the nature and
condition of his mill will permit, and in due time as the same
shall be brought; and that he shall post in the mill his rates of
toll, and the county commissioners of the county shall establish
and regulate the amount of toll to be charged. The court held,
in Traver v. Jlferricc County, that the legislature had authority to provide that streams capable of being applied to mill
purposes should be so utilized for the benefit of the public; that
the right to erect a mill and dam, on paying damages for the
injury caused, was granted for the better use of the waterpower, on considerations of public policy and the general good,
with a view to keeping up mills for use; and that, under the
act of 1873, water grist-mills were mills for the use of the
public. It also held that, under the act of 1869, works of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Opinion of the Court.

ternal improvement were not restricted to railroads and works
of like character, such as canals, turnpikes and bridges; that, if
an internal improvement was for public use, subject to the control and regulation of the legislature, it was within the act;
and that, as the mill in that case was one to be propelled by
water, and was for the use of all who might desire to patronize
it, at such rates of toll as might be prescribed by the county
commissioners of the county, it was a work of internal improvement, within the act.
We concur in these views, and regard them as a sound exposition of the legislation of Nebraska. In Traver v. Jlerriele
County the thing aided was the building a public grist-mill and
water-power. As we understand the present case, the thing
aided is the improving the water-power of a river, by constructing a canal for water-power purposes to propel public gristmills. This is within the act of 1869. A water grist-mill
cannot be run so as to be a public grist-mill, unless it is furnished with water-power, and, if an existing river needs to be
improved to furnish such power, the improvement of it is a
public work of internal improvement.
In 1lownslup of Burlington v. Beasley, 94 U. S. 310, this
court held that a steam custom grist-mill, not on a water-course
or operated by water-power, was a " work of internal improvement," within an act of Kansas authorizing municipal bonds
in aid of "the construction of railroads or water-power,
or for other works of internal improvement." The decision was
based, in part, on the ground, that there was another act which
declared that "all water, steam or other mills, whose owners
or occupiers grind or offer to grind grain for toll or pay, are
hereby declared public mills," and provided for the order in
which customers should be served, and prescribed the duties of
the miller, and that the rates of toll should be posted; and, as
it would also be competent for the legislature to regulate the
toll, it was held that aid to the mill was aid of a public work
of internal improvement.
Enterprises of a class within which that in the present case
falls are so far of a public nature that private property may be
appropriated to carry them into effect. Boston & Roxbury

STEWART v. HOYT'S EXECUTORS.
Syllabus.

Mill Corp. v. Newman, 12 Pick. 467; Commonwealth v. Essex
Company, 13 Gray, 239, 249; Lowell v. Boston, III Mass. 454,
464; Scudder v. Trenton Delaware Falls Co., 1 Saxton Ch.
694; Beekma9n v. Saratoga &t Schenectady Railroad Co., 3
And when the legislature has given to gristPaige, 45.
mills and the water-power connected with them such a public
character as in the present case, the improvement of the waterpower must be regarded as a public work of internal improvement, which may be aided in its construction by the issue of
bonds, under the act in question.
These conclusions require that

he judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and
the case be remanded to that court, with direction to overrule the dew urrer to the petition, and to take such further
proceedings in the cause as may be required by law and as

shall not be inconsistent with this opinion.

STEWART & Another v. HOYT'S EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM TITE cIRCUrr COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued April 9th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Contract-Lease-Railroad.
By a lease from one railroad corporation of its railroad to another railroad
corporation, subject to a previous mortgage, the lessee covenanted to pay
as rent a certain proportion of the gross earnings, and to state accounts semiannually, and further covenanted, if the rent for any six months should be
insufficient to pay the interest due at the end of the six months on the mortgage bonds, then to advance a sufficient sum to take up, and to take up
the balance of the coupons for such interest; and it was agreed that for all
suns so advanced the lessee should have a lien before all other liens except
the mortgage. Eighteen months later, after the lessee had accordingly
paid and taken up some coupons, and had declined to take up others, on
account of the refusal of the lessor to accept in payment of rent coupons so
taken up, the two corporations executed a supplemental agreement, by
which, in lieu of the rent reserved in the lease, and of all advances of
money to take up coupons, the lessee covenanted to pay, and the lessor to
accept, as rent, a larger proportion of the gross earnings, "all accounts

