QUINN v. CHAPMAN.
Opinion of the Court,

If, however, any witness had so sworn who was present when
the receipt was signed and the notes were delivered, it was a
question for the jury whether his statement or the writing produced was the most credible, and this question the judge took
from them by his peremptory instruction, three times repeated,
that there was no right in Bullock's Sons to pledge the notes
as collateral for their own debt, and to do so was to break faith
with Scheppers Brothers.
For this error, important in the narrow point in issue,
It/'ejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
remandedfor a new trial.

QUINN v. CHAPMAN.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 28th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Public Lands.
The facts in this case show no reason why the equitable claim of the plaintiff
in error to a tract of public land patented to the defendant should prevail
over the legal title.
A rule formerly prevailing in the Land Office forbidding the filing of a declaratory statement based upon an alleged right of pre-emption, having its
origin subsequent to the commencement of a contest between other parties
for the same land, is not ground for rejecting the claim if it is otherwise equitable.

3lTr. Barclay Jlenley for plaintiff in error.
Ir.

George A. 2ourse for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of California.
The foundation of the writ is, that that court, in a controversy which involved the ownership of land, decided, adversely
to plaintiff in error, a right or claim set up by him under the
laws of the United States concerning the sale and pre-emption
of public lands.
The facts on which this question arises are not much con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

troverted in the record, nor are they very complicated; and
they are these:
George Hollingsworth made a settlement on the land in
question in 1853, and built a house thereon, and died in possession, and was buried there in 1854. His wife and children,
all of whom were minors, were then in Missouri, where she
died, two years later. At that time the land in question was
claimed is part of a Mexican grant to Joseph De Haro. The
final survey of the confirmed grant of DeHaro was made and
filed in the local land office, March 19th, 1868, by which it was
ascertained that the land in question was not a part of that
grant, and, under the decisions of this court, in the cases of
New/all v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, and Van ]eynegan v. Bolton,
95 U. S. 33, it then became subject to entry and pre-emption
for the first time.
Chapman, defendant in error, having been appointed administrator of Hollingsworth, for the purpose of perfecting the
title of Hollingsworth's heirs to the land, filed in their name
the declaratory statement, which the law requires for preemption, on the 8th day of April, just twenty days after the
filing of the maps of the survey in the local office, and the
next day after his appointment as administrator.
lie prosecuted this claim vigorously, his right being contested
before the land department by a man named Bepler, who
claimed a superior right as pre-emptor, and by the State of
California, which claimed it as a part of the school-section
grant by act of Congress. le was successful, and by order of
the Secretary of the Interior, to whom this case had been appealed, a patent for the land was issued, May 20th, 1872, to the
heirs of Iollingsworth. By a conveyance from part of these
heirs Chapman became owner of one undivided half of this
property, on which he recovered judgment against Quinn in
the present action of ejectment.
In that suit Quinn, by way of defence and cross-complaint,
set up that he had a superior equity to the land, and prayed
a conveyance from Chapman of the legal title. Several matters are set forth as grounds of this equity which are not proved,
such as frauds practised by Chapman on the land department,

QUINN v. CHAPMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and that Hollingsworth made his settlement and improvement
for his brother, and not for himself.
But the point on which his case turns is his own settlement
and efforts to secure a pre-emption right to the same land. It
appears that he was a foreigner, and a few days after he had
filed his declaration of intention to become a citizen he went
upon the land in question, on February 5th, 1869, which is about
ten months after Chapman's declaratory statement was filed,
and built a house and made other improvements, and within
three months thereafter tendered to the register of the land
office his declaratory statement to pre-empt the land. This
officer refused to receive it, because the contest for the land
between Chapman, Bepler, and the State of California, for the
right to it, was then far advanced before the register and
receiver. On appeal by him to the Commissioner, and thence
to the Secretary of the Interior, this action of the register was
confirmed.
The only reason given by the department for refusing to
permit Quinn to file his declaratory statement was the existence
of a rule of its own establishment forbidding the filing of a
declaratory statement, based upon an alleged right, having its
origin subsequent to the commencement of a contest between
other parties for the same land; and the Supreme and inferior
courts of California seeni to have held that this was a sufficient
answer in this case to the claim of plaintiff in error.
We are not prepared to say, however, that if Quinn had.a
right to make a pre-emption of this land, otherwise valid, the
existence of this rule, or its enforcement against him, would
defeat that right. The rule, we are told by counsel, has been
rescinded, and is of no further consequence except as to its
effect upon the present case; and if Quinn had been able to
show a superior equity to that which arises out of the patent
in this case, we should not feel inclined to reject it because of
the rule referred to.
But he has had a hearing before the court in regard to that
equity, in which he has been permitted to prove, or, at least, to
offer all the evidence he has of such equity, and taking everything he has proved, or offered to prove, we are not able to see

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

any equity in him superior to that of the heirs of Hollingsworth. Unless he has shown this, the legal title must prevail.
The claimants under the patent are prior to him in every
point. Hlollingsworth settled on the land, built a house on it,
lived on it, and was buried on it, while Quinn was yet a
foreigner, and incapable of maling a valid claim. It is true
that the land not being then open to pre-emption, Hollingsworth gained no legal right to it, but he had a right to believe
that if, when the Do Haro claim was surveyed, it was found the
land on which he lived was open to pre-emption, he would have
the prior right if he came in time. He died in that belief, and
the lawful representative of his minor children, at the earliest
moment after the land became subject to pre-emption, asserted
their right, paid the price of the land, and after an expensive
contest with others, received the title from the United States.
We do not think their equity in the matter can be disputed.
What is Mr. Quinn's equity? He has never paid a dollar for
the land, has received no title nor any recognition of his claim
from the government or any one else.
Perceiving that no one was in the actual occupancy of the
land, but knowing that the claim of the heirs had been recognized at the land office months before, he hastily prepared
himself by declaration of intention to become a citizen, went
boldly upon land on which Hollingsworth lived and died,
and because there was no one there to defend the possession,
built his cabin and asserted a right superior to the heirs of Hollingsworth. In this also he was a year later than Chapman,
representing the heirs of Hollingsworth. His claim has been
denied by the land office from the beginning; he has paid
nothing, received no recognition, acquired no vested right.
We see no equity in him equal to that of the heirs of Hollingsworth. There is no justice in taking the title which they
had fairly acquired and vesting it in him; and the judgment
of the Supreme Court of California is accordingly

