WALSH v. MAYER.
Syllabus.

erred in rendering its judgment dismissing the appellant's petition, and thus disallowing his entire claim. But we are also
of opinion that he is not entitled to recover for so much of it
as accrued more than six years before the bringing of his suit.
There was nothing in the nature of the business, nor in the
mode in which it was conducted, nor in the accounts it required,
that prevented a suit from being brought, for the amount of
commissions withheld, in each instance as it occurred and was
ascertained. The recovery must therefore be limited to the
amount accruing during the six years next preceding November 21st, 1878, which, according to the findings of the Court of
Claims, is $28,616, and for that amount judgment should have
been rendered by the court in favor of the appellant.
ie judgment of the Court of Claim8 i8reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to render judgment in
favor of the appellant in accordancewith this opinion.

WALSHI v. MAYER & Others.
MAYER & Others v. WALSH.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued January 31st, February 1st, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Conflict of Law-Statute of Limitations-Usury.
A negotiable promissory note made in New Orleans secured by mortgage of
real estate in Mississippi, the maker being a citizen of Arkansas, and the
promisee being a citizen of Louisiana, and no place of payment being
named in the note, is subject to the limitation of actions prescribed by the
statute of Mississippi, as the law of the forum, When suit is brought upon it
in Mississippi.
In Mississippi a letter from the holder of a promissory note, the right of action on which is barred by the statute of limitations, asking for insurance
on buildings on property mortgaged to secure payment of the note, and saying, "'The amount you owe me on the $7,500 note is too large to be left in
such an unprotected situation : I cannot consent to it "-and a written
reply from the maker, saying, "We think you will run no risk in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
time, as the property would be worth more than the amount due you if the
building were to burn down," is an acknowledgment of the debt within the
requirements of the Mississippi statute of limitations.
When a promissory note barred by the statute of limitations is signed in their
individual names by several persons forming a copartnership, and the acknowledgment in writing to take it out of the operation of the statute is
signed in the partnership name, it is a sufficient acknowledgment if the
note was an obligation contracted for partnership purposes, and if it can
be legitimately inferred from the facts that the firm was the agent of all
the makers for the purpose of the acknowledgment.
A statute prescribing a legal rate of interest, and forbidding the taking of a
higher rate "under pain of forfeiture of the entire interest so contracted,"
and that "if any person hereafter shall pay on any contract a higher rate
of interest than the above, as discount or otherwise, the same may be sued
for and recovered within twelve months from the time of such payment,"
confers no authority to apply usurious interest actually paid to the discharge of the principal debt. A suit for recovery within twelve months
after payment is the exclusive remedy.
A plaintiff demanding judgment on a note for $7,500, recovered only $702
judgment being against him as to the remainder of the claim on matter of
law. He appealed. The defendant took a cross-appeal. On motion to
dismiss the cross-appeal for want of jurisdiction: Held, That it was incident to the plaintiff's appeal ; and that appeal being sustained in part and
overruled in part the whole cause was remanded.

On the 2d day of January, 1866, the defendants, J. D. Mayer
& Co., purchased from William Barnes, who then resided in
the city of New Orleans, and the said defendants then being
residents of the State of Arkansas, the hotel property situate
in Mississippi City, in this State (Mississippi), known as the
Barnes Hotel, and to secure the payment of the last instahnent
of the purchase money, executed their promissory note for
$7,500, payable two years after date, with six per cent. interest thereon until due and ten per cent. thereafter until paid,
which note was made payable to themselves, and indorsed and
delivered to said Barnes, who held and owned the same until
about the last of June, 1874, when he sold and delivered the
same for value to the complainant, Walsh.
To secure the payment of this note, and one for the same
amount which fell due a year previous, and which has been
paid and satisfied, the said defendants executed a mortgage
upon the property so purchased and described therein, which
was executed and recorded on the 20th February, 1866.

WALSH v. MAYER.
Statement of Facts.

At the time when said contract was made it was agreed and
understood between the parties that the deferred payments
were intended by said Barnes as an investment, and that so
long as the interest was paid after this note became due,
the payment of the principal sum would not be demanded,
and in pursuance of said agreement and understanding the
said defendants paid up the interest, which was indorsed
upon the note as paid, to September, 1873. Some time after
the maturity of the note, Barnes, as a condition for further
indulgence, demanded of the said defendants that they should
execute their notes falling due at a further period for the interest up to their maturity, equal to fifteen per cent. per annum,
upon the note for $7,500, and also for the amount of money
advanced by Barnes to pay the premiums upon the insurance
policies, with fifteen per cent. interest added. These notes
were drawn in New Orleans, made payable to order, and indorsed and delivered to Barnes. The last of these notes was
dated May 12th, 1874, and made due and payable on the 14th
day of September thereafter. These transactions all took
place prior to the transfer of the note by Barnes to complainant, but were known to complainant at the time of his purchase.
At the time of the purchase of the note, complainant wrote
to the defendants, notifying them that he was the holder and
owner of the note, and calling their attention to the continuance of the insurance upon the property; to this letter the
said defendants replied on the 6th of July, acknowledging its
receipt, but nothing more.
On December 1st, complainant mailed a letter to defendants,
informing them that he needed money; that the interest had
been paid to the 1st of September before, and again urging
funds to provide insurance on the property; defendants replied
to this letter on the 8th December, stating that they were willing to pay three months' interest, but had been served with a
writ of garnishment in the suit of the First National Bank of
New Orleans, in a suit by attachment brought by the bank on
said Barnes in the Circuit Court of Harrison County, and therefore declined to make further payment, or for further insurVOL. CXI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

ance, stating that they desired to have the insurance changed,
and to take it at a future time.
On March 2d, 1876, complainant wrote a letter to defendants, calling their attention to the want of insurance, in which
he used the following language: "I think it would not be wise
for you, or safe for me, to leave things in that way; the
amount you owe me on the $7,500 note is too large to be left in
such an unprotected condition, and I cannot consent to it."
On the 9th of March, 1876, the defendants made and sent
to the complainant the following reply to the foregoing letter:
"Yours at hand, we do not want to insure any until about
July, when we expect to insure for about $15,000. We think
you will run no risk in that time, as the property would be
worth the amount due you if the building was to burn clown.
"(Signed)
J. D. MAYEr & Co."
The suit of the Bank v. defendants was commenced in November, 1874, but owing to the death of Barnes, was continued
until the 24th of October, 1876, when the defendants filed
their answer to the garnishment, in which they acknowledge
the execution of the note, but claim that they have paid excess
of interest and usurious interest thereon, which should be deducted from the note, and which when done would only leave
a balance of $2,509.76, and which was owing to said William
Barnes, but claimed the benefit of the statute of limitations,
and which they set up as an entire defence to the said note,
and upon which the suit was dismissed as to them.
After this, by an arrangement between them and the bank,
they gave their note to the bank for the said sum of $2,509.76,
at four years, with 6 per cent. interest, but this was done with
the condition that if the complainant recovered on said note
for $7,500 the bank was not to collect the note so executed
to it.

The bill set up these facts and prayed for an account, and
that the defendants might be decreed to pay the sum found due,
and enjoined from pleading the statute of limitations and that
the mortgage might be enforced.
The answer, among other defences, set up usury and the

WALSH v. MAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

statute of limitations, and denied that the correspondence
took the notes out of the statute.
The court decreed the enforcement of the lien to the extent
of $702.69, the amount remaining due on the note after deducting the usurious interest under the statutes of Louisiana. From
this decree the plaintiff appealed, and the defendants took a
cross-appeal.
Xr. W. I[alleft Phillipsfor Walsh.
.Mr. C. IF Il:Jornor for Mayer and others.
MR. JUs'ncE MAtHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he continued.
Two questions arose on the facts; first, whether the bar of
the statute of limitations was prevented by a sufficient acknowledgment or promise by the defendants as makers of the
note; and second, whether the usurious interest paid by them
could be applied in reduction of the principal debt.
The Circuit Court rightly held that the statute of limitations
of Mississippi, being the law of the forum, was the one applicable to the case. Section 2161 of the Revised Code of Mississippi, 1871, provides that actions on promissory notes must be
brought within six years after cause of action accrued; and
section 2165 declares that in actions founded on contract no
acknowledgment or promise shall be evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take any case out of the provisions
of the limitation act, or to deprive any party of the benefit
thereof, unless such acknowledgment or promise be made or
contained by or in some writing signed by the party chargeable thereby. We agree with the Circuit Court in the conclusion that the two letters of March 2d and March 9th, 1876,
contain such a definite recognition and acknowledgment of the
debt due on the note in suit as meets the requirement of the
statute. The letter of March 9th, it is true, is signed by J. D.
Mayer & Co., in their partnership name, while the note is made
b the individual members; but it is a legitimate inference,
from the facts found, that the firm was the common agent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883..
Opinion of the Court.

all its members for the purpose, as the business of managing
the property was transacted by the firm. It was indeed for
the purpose of owning and conducting the hotel that the partnership was formed, and the note, though in form that "of the
individual partners, was regarded as a partnership obligation.
Upon the question of the application of the illegal interest
paid in reduction of the principal, the Circuit Court held that
the contract, as to interest, was governed by the law of
Louisiana; that by the terms of that law, Rev. Stat. 269, "the
amount of conventional interest shall in no case exceed eight
per cent. under pain of forfeiture of the entire .interest so contracted," and that, "if any person hereafter shall pay on any
contract a higher rate of interest than the above, as discount
or otherwise, the same may be sued for and recovered within
twelve months from the time of such payment." By the MN[ississippi Code, 1871, ยง 229, the legal rate of interest is fixed, in
the absence of contract, at six per cent. per annum; "but
contracts may be made in writing for the payment of a rate of
interest as great as ten per cent. per annum. And if a greater
rate of interest than ten per cent. shall be stipulated for in any
case, such excess shall be forfeited on the plea of the party to
be charged therewith."
The Circuit Court held that the whole interest paid being
avoided by the Louisiana statute, a court of equity would impute its payment to the principal debt, and rendered a decree
accordingly, deducting the whole amount of interest paid from
the face of the note. In the view we take, it does not become
necessary to decide whether the contract ought to be governed
by the law of Louisiana or that of Mississippi; for we are of
opinion that the decree, in this particular, is erroneous according to either.
It is not claimed that there is any express provision in the
Louisiana statute that requires such an application of payments
made on account of unlawful interest. It is rested altogether
upon the provision that forfeits the whole interest paid, and
authorizes the debtor to recover it back within the time limited.
But the same provision is contained in see. 5198 Rev. Stats. of
the United States, in reference to national banks; under which

WALSH v. MAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

it has been held that usurious interest actually paid cannot be
applied to the discharge of the principal. Driebaeh v. Aational
Bank, 104 U. S. 52; Barnet v. National Bank, 98 U. S. 555.
In Cook v. Lillo, 103 U. S. 792, the Louisiana statute was considered, and, upon the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
State, it was decided that the usurious interest cannot be reclaimed, nor be imputed to the principal, unless a suit for its
recovery is begun or plea of usury set up to the claim within
twelve months after the payment is made. Cox v. hlchtyre,
6 La. Ann. 470 ; Veaver v. Maillot, 15 La. Ann. 395.
It is said, however, that the law of Louisiana applies and
governs, so far as it allows the forfeited interest to be applied
in reduction of the principal, in an action on the note, but that
the limitation of time, within which by that law the right
must be exercised, being part of the remedy merely, is governed
by the law of Mvfississippi, being the law of the forum, which
contains no such limitation.
But the right claimed under the law of 'Louisiana must be
taken as it is given, and is not divisible. The provisions requiring it to be asserted in a particular mode and within a fixed
time, are conditions and qualifications attached to the right
itself, and do not form part of the law of the remedy. If it is
not asserted within the permitted period, it ceases to exist and
cannot be claimed or enforced in any form. It was accordingly
held in Pitt8burg, &e., Railroad (oonpany v. ITine's Adin'x, 25
Ohio St. 629, under an act which required compensation to be
made for causing death by wrongful act, neglect, or default,
and gave a right of action, provided such action should be commenced within two years after the death of such deceased
person, that this proviso was a condition qualifying the right
of action, and not a mere limitation on the remedy. Bonte v.
_"aylor, 24 Ohio St. 628; Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U. S. 124.
We are therefore of opinion that the Circuit Court erred
in not rendering a decree in favor of the complainants below
for the amount of the note, with lawful interest from the date
up to which interest had been paid.
We have disposed of the case upon both appeals. The
motion to dismiss the cross-appeal of the defendants below, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the amount in controversy is less than $5,000, is overruled. The cross-appeal, it is
true, is from a decree awarding against the defendants below
less than that amount, and it could not, therefore, be maintained
by itself; but the appeal of the plaintiffs below, to which it is
incident, opened the whole controversy here, so far as they
were concerned, and that of the defendants must be allowed to
have the like effect as to them, so that upon both appeals the
case was brought up as it stood for hearing in the court below,
the claims of the respective parties involving the question of
liability as to the whole amount.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded with directions
to render a decreefor the comnplainants below in co.nforrnity
with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. ULRICI.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued March 5th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Internal Revenue.
The sureties on a distiller's bond for payment of taxes are discharged by seizure
of the spirits for fraudulent acts of the distiller, and sale of them by the
marshal, and payment of the taxes by the marshal out of the proceeds of
the sale.

This was an action at law, brought by the United States
against Rudolph W. Ulrici, principal, and Gerhard Bensberg
and Charles Hoppe, his sureties on a distiller's warehouse bond,
which was payable to the United States in the penalty of
The condition of the
$47,000, and was dated May 5th, 1875.
bond was that the principal should pay, or cause to be paid,
the amount of taxes due and owing on certain described distilled spirits entered for deposit during the month of April,
1875, in distillery warehouse No. 4, in the city of St. Louis,
before the removal of the spirits from the warehouse and
within one year from the date of the bond. The breach

