OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

were made right concerning the alleged irregularityr of the exchange of the register for a coasting license and enrolment.
But even while withholding these latter papers he was clearly
entitled to his register, which was refused on demand.
But it is also apparent that the enrolment came into Badger's
possession by means equivalent to a forcible seizure against the
will of plaintiff.
The chief clerk of Badger hunted up Gutierez, and under
pretence of inspecting these papers obtained possession of them
under instruction from Badger, and refused to return them on
demand, as did Badger also.

Though the Secretary of the Treasury justified these proceedings, and acting under his advice Badger refused to deliver
up any of the ship's papers for a considerable time, and they

were finally sent to Washington, we do not see that this made
his course in seizing and detaining the papers any the less a
tort, for which the Secretary could not relieve him from responsibility.
We see no error in the record, and
TAcejudyment of the Circuit Court is cffrmned.

FACTORS' & TRADERS' INSURANCE COM[PANY v.
M[URPHY & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Submitted April 18th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Bankruptcy-fortgage--Sale.
This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisana, in a suit by one citizen of that State against another for the foreclosure of a mortgage on real estate therein, when the only controversy in
the case is as to the effect to be given to a sale of the property under an
order of the District Court of the United States in bankruptcy, to sell the
bankrupt's mortgaged property free from incumbrances.
When a mortgagee of real estate becomes owner of the equity of redemption, a
court of equity will not regard the mortgage as merged by unity of possession, if it was the evident intent that the two titles should be kept distinct,

FACTORS', &c., INS. CO. v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.
or if the purchaser has such an interest in keeping them distinct that this
intent can be inferred.
A sale of real estate of a bankrupt by order of court free from the lien of a
mortgage creditor is invalid, as to the creditor and as to the purpose of discharging his lien, unless he is made a party to the proceedings. Ray v.
Norseworthy, 23 Wall. 128 affirmed.
In such case it is not sufficient to notify the person who holds the evidences of
his debt, and claims to be his agent, if the record represents that person as
acting for another party, and makes no mention of the mortgage creditor.
The real estate of a bankrupt was sold by order of court free of incumbrances
and purchased by A. One of the mortgages on the estate was given to
secure four notes of which at the time of the sale A held two, and B held
two. A and other mortgage creditors were made parties to the proceedings,
but B was not made party. C held B's notes and claimed to represent him
in the proceedings, but the record only showed C as acting for D. B
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage as to his two notes, claiming that as
to A's notes the lien was cut off by the purchase of the equity, and as to the
rest of mortgage liens as well as to A's they were discharged by the sale.
Held (1) that B had the right to a decree of foreclosure. (2) That this decree
should be made for the benefit of all the mortgage creditors in the order of
their priority, including A. (3) That the expenses of A for taxes, prior
liens, improvements, &c., growing out of the former sale should be first paid
out of the proceeds of the new sale. (4) That A should account for rents
and profits if there were any.

This suit was originally brought by the widow Mary Murphy,
in the Fifth District Court of the Parish of Orleans, to fore.
close a mortgage upon real estate in Louisiana, which had been
the property of a bankrupt, and had been sold by order of the
District Court of the District of Louisiana free from incumbrances, and purchased by a holder of notes secured by the
same mortgage. The facts which raise the federal question are
stated in the opinion of the court. The Supreme Court of the
State, to which the case came on appeal, decreed a sale of the
mortgaged property to satisfy Mrs. Murphy's debt and interest. This writ of error was sued out to review that judgment.
,kAr.

R. L. Gibson and iir.

G. 1. 11a11 for plaintiff in error.

Afr. James David Coleman and 2L.
defendant in error, Murphy.

C/carles W. HIornor for

MR. JUSTmCE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant in error sued in the proper court of the State
to foreclose a mortgage given by Paul Cook and Justus Vairin,
Jr., to secure the payment of four notes of $10,000 each, given
by them in their partnership name of Paul Cook & Co., of
which she was then the holder and owner of two, all the notes
being of the same date. She alleged that Cook and Vairin
had been declared bankrupts, and that by certain proceedings
in the bankruptcy court, and under its order, the mortgaged
property had been sold free from incumbrance, and bought in by
several persons who had liens on it, by whose order it was conveyed to the Factors' and Traders' Insurance Co., which held
the other two notes secured by the mortgage. She further
alleged that the effect of this sale was to extinguish the mortgage as to the notes held by that company, and all other liens
but hers, and to make that company liable to her for the amount
of these notes with a first lien on the property mortgaged.
That the sale under the order in bankruptcy was not binding
on her, because she was not made a party to the proceeding
and had no notice of it, while it was binding on all the other
lien holders whose liens were thereby discharged, leaving hers
a paramount lien on the property.
The insurance company and the other parties interested
answered and insisted that Mrs. Murphy was bound by the
bankruptcy sale because she was represented by T. A. Archer,
who, as her agent, and having possession of her notes, took
part in all the proceedings, and in that character was one of
the purchasers, and joined in directing the conveyance to be
made to the insurance company. They admit her interest in
the property in proportion to the extent of her notes, but set
up certain expenses and charges on it paid by them for taxes,
necessary improvements, and prior liens to the amount of
$11,454.83 as a superior claim to her notes.
The testimony of Mr. Archer shows that he understood himself as acting for Mrs. Murphy, having as her agent possession
of the two notes now in suit. That in that character and no
other he took part in all the proceedings for the sale and purchase of the mortgaged property, and that during that time he
had frequent conversations with her and explained to her what

FACTORS', &c., INS. CO. v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

was going on, to which she made no dissent. But he does not
say that she at any time in express terms authorized him
to represent her in the sale or in the proceedings connected
with it. The record of those proceedings, on the contrary,
affirms that Mr. Archer acted for Marshall J. Smith & Co., of
which company he was a member, and no mention of Mrs.
Murphy is found in the record of that case, though both
Archer and Smith have sworn they had no real interest in the
matter, and only appeared as representing Mrs. Murphy's notes
then in their possession and with her assent.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, on appeal, held that Mrs.
Murphy was not a party to the proceeding in bankruptcy, and
was in no sense bound by the sale of the mortgaged property,
but that the sale had the effect of extinguishing and satisfying
all the liens on the property but hers, and left her notes the
only lien on it. While it held that the insurance company was
not bound for the debt in yersonarm, it decreed that unless the
company paid her debt, with interest, costs, and five per cent.
attorney's fees, the property should be sold to raise the money,
and denied the company's claim for taxes and other necessary
outlays for the benefit of the property.
Counsel for defendant in error deny the jurisdiction of this
court and move to dismiss the writ. But it is apparent that
the only controversy in the case relates to the effect to be
given to the sale under the order of the District Court of the
United States, to sell the mortgaged property free from incumbrance. Both parties assert rights under this order and
sale. Plaintiffs in error assert that the sale as made was
valid, and, being sold free from incumbrances, extinguished
Mrs. Murphy's lien as well as others. Defendant asserts that
it had the effect of discharging all other liens but hers, and thus
gave her the exclusive, paramount lien on all the property so
sold. Both the parties, therefore, rely upon rights under federal authority, and as the right of plaintiff in error was denied
by the court the writ of error lies.
As regards the merits, it is impossible to shut one's eyes to
the injustice of the decree. The plaintiffs in error, who were
led to suppose that they were acting in concert with Mrs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Murphy, or at least with the holders of her notes by her consent, join in purchasing the property for the benefit of all the
lien holders, and receive the title in trust for their common
benefit. It is immediately necessary, to save it from loss, to
pay taxes and other prior liens and to make improvements
necessary to its preservation to the extent of over $11,000, for
which they advance the money. Mrs. Murphy, who was
aware of all these proceedings, and that the holder of her notes
co-operated in them by virtue of those notes, now, when, by
reason of depreciation in the value of the property, it is insufficient to pay her debt alone, asks that the others shall be sacrificed, that it shall all go to satisfy her debt, and even the
money advanced to save the property from sale for taxes and
from falling to decay, which is paid by others and enures now
to her benefit, shall fall upon them as a dead loss. If this be
the necessary legal result of that proceeding in bankruptcy the
decree of the State court must be affirmed, but it will certainly
be a result at variance with the policy of a statute whose main
purpose was to secure an equal distribution of an insolvent
debtor's property among all his creditors.
The first question to be decided is whether Mrs. Murphy
was a party to the bankruptcy proceeding, so as to bind her to
the order that the sale was free from incumbrance, by which,
while her lien with all others was discharged, she had a right
to her proportion of the price bid for it.
We are of opinion, with the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
that the record in this case does not show such service of process or other notice as makes Mrs. Murphy such a party to the
bankruptcy proceeding as binds her to the sale and discharges
her lien. The case of Ray v. Xorsewortiy, 23 Wall. 128, is
conclusive on that subject, and is, we think, sound in principle.
The effect of this proposition is, that after the sale was made she
was at liberty to accept such a part of the sum for which the
property sold as her two notes would entitle her to in their relation to all other liens on it, by which she would have ratified
the sale; or to proceed in her own way to subject the property
to payment of her debt, which she has done by the foreclosure
suit now on review.

FACTORS', &c., INS. CO. v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

But in this suit she has not elected to proceed in disregard of that sale, whereby, when the property would be sold
under her decree of foreclosure, the proceeds of it must be
brought into court and distributed among the lien holders according to their priorities; but she seeks to affirm that sale as
free from all incumbrances, except her own, thereby assuming
the benefit of a decree to which she was not a party while
denying its obligation on herself, without which the decree
would not have been made.
The adoption of this view by the Supreme Court of Louisiana is based by that court upon the doctrine of confusion
found in the civil code of that State.
Without examining into the decisions of the State courts
on that subject, it is sufficient to say that in construing the
effect of this sale under the order of the District Court of
the United States, it must be decided by those general
principles which govern bankruptcy proceedings under that
statute, rather than the code of the State in regard to voluntary sales of mortgaged property between individuals.
In this view of the subject, it is not possible, consistently
with any equitable view of the case, to hold that this sale discharged part of the liens against the property and increased
thereby the value of other liens at the expense of the purchasers. That the parties who honestly bid off the property
and consented to hold it discharged of the claim of the assignee, but for the benefit of all the lien holders, thereby cut
themselves off from any benefit of these liens to make good a
lien which had no priority over theirs. If this were done by
mistake in supposing all the lien holders were represented or
were consenting, the mistake should be rectified by restoring
the parties to their rights as if no sale had been made. If
Mrs. Murphy chooses to assert her lien and demand a new sale
of the land, let her have it, but it must be subject to the rights
of all parties as they stood before the other sale, which, by
reason of her absence and her objections, is ineffectual to bar
incumbrances, as it was intended to do.
So far as the doctrine of confusion of the Louisiana Code
may be said to be the equivalent of the doctrine of merger, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the common law and in equity, in the latter it has been uniformly
held that where an incumbrancer, by mortgage or otherwise,
becomes the owner of the legal title or of the equity of redemption, the merger will not be held to take place if it be apparent
that it was not the intention of the owner, or if, in the absence of any intention, said merger was against his manifest
interest.
Applying this just principle to the case before us, it is quite
apparent that no merger can be sustained.
It is clearly proved that the property was purchased, as they
supposed, at the time by all the lien holders, Mr. Archer acting for Mrs. Murphy, at a sum far below the amount due on
the liens, and that no money was paid except the costs of sale,
or intended to be paid, but that the property should be held, as
it was before the sale, for the benefit of all these lien holders,
in the proportion of their interest. This was carried into effect,
not by a new sale to the insurance company, as is asserted, but
by a conveyance under that sale, at the request of these lien
holders, to that company, as trustee, for them all.
It was not, therefore, intended to extinguish their liens by
this proceeding, but to keep them alive until the property should
finally be sold and the money divided. So it is equally clear
that it was not for the interest of these lien holders, who were
actually purchasing, to extinguish their liens and thereby make
Mrs. Murphy's notes a first lien, and enable her to get all her
money at their expense.
The rule on this subject is thus stated by Jones on Mortgages, see. 848 : "It is a general rule that when the legal title
becomes united with the equitable, so that the owner has the
whole title, the mortgage is merged by the unity of possession.
But if the owner has an interest in keeping these titles distinct,
or if there be an intervening right between the mortgage and
the equity, there is no merger."
And in the case of Forbes v.
fofftt, 18 Vesey, 384, Sir William Grant says: "The question
is upon the intention, actual or presumed, of the person in
whom the interests are united." Other authorities cited by
Mr. Jones sustain the principle. Clark v. Clark, 56 IN. II.
105, is directly in point. Loud v. Lane, 8 Metcalf, Mass. 517;

FACTORS, &c., INS. CO. v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

Camlpbell v. Carter, 14 11. 286; Armstrong v. XeAlpin, 18
Ohio St. 184.
It is to be observed, in the present case, that, as the mortgage, which secured the two notes owned by the insurance
company, was the same which secured Mrs. Murphy's notes,
as between which there was no priority, it would hardly be
held on the order of the court to sell the property free from all
incumbrances, that the purchase by the insurance company
merged part of the mortgage, while part was kept alive. This
is expressly decided in Winker v. Flood, 103 Mass. 474.
The result of these views is, that while Mrs. Murphy is
not precluded by the judicial sale, under the order of the
bankruptcy court, from foreclosing the mortgage for her notes,
neither are the parties who took part in that proceeding barred
of the right to set up their liens, as they existed before that
sale, and share in the proceeds of the new sale accordingly;
and, so far as the expenditures of the insurance company, in
payment of taxes and prior liens and in improvements necessary to the prevention of loss and deterioration in the property, were required for the benefit of all the lien holders, it is
to be first paid out of the proceeds of the sale, and plaintiff in error should account for rents and profits, if there were
any.
ihe decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is reversed,
with directions to enter a decree in conformity to this
opinion; and it i8 so ordered.

