OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

BADGER, Collector, v. GUTIEREZ'S Administratrix.
IN ERROR TO TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April ith, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Collector of Customs- Vessels.
The papers of a vessel not under seizure in the hands of a collector of customs,
but not deposited with him for purpose of entry or clearance, may not be
detained by him without subjecting him to an action for the resulting
damage.
When a vessel or its owner becomes subject to a statutory penalty for taking
out improper papers, that does not justify a collector of customs in withholding from the vessel the papers to which it is lawfully entitled.

The facts constituting the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Mr,.Solicilor-Generalfor appellant.

2M . J Ward Gurley, Jr., for appellee.
the court.
This is an action by defendant in error against Badger, plaintiff in error, who was collector of the port of New Orleans, for
MR. JIUSTICE MIL nx delivered the opinion of

the wrongful seizure and detention of the license, enrolment,
shipping articles, and other papers of the schooner Theresa G,
of which he was owner. The plaintiff on the trial recovered a
verdict for the sum of $3,000 damages, and on his remitting
$1,000 of the verdict, a judgment was rendered for the remainder with costs.

A bill of exceptions sets forth the facts in the case as follows:
"Be it remembered that on the trial of this cause before a jury
there was evidence introduced tending to show that the schooner
Theresa G, whereof Frank Gutierez was master, sailed from Havana on 9th September, 1879, bound for the port of Shieldsborough ; that on or about the 29th September, 1879, said vessel
arrived in Grand Caillon Bayou, an inlet of the Gulf of Mexico,
lying within the customs collection district of tho Teche, that the

BADGER v. GUTIEREZ.
Opinion of the Court.
arrival of said vessel was not reported to collector of the district
of the Teche, but that on the 28th October, 1870, while said vessel
was lying in said bayou and in said district of the Techc, Gutierez
reported the arrival of the vessel to collector's office at Shieldsborough, which was the port of her registration, and in the absence of the collector of that port, a deputy collector received
from Guticrez the foreign register of said vessel, and issued to
him a coasting license and enrolment.
" That on the 31st October the collector at Shicldsborough
wrote to General Badger, collector port New Orleans, stating that
said papers had been issued improperly in his absence, and requesting him, Badger, to get them from Guticrez ; that on the 1st
November, 1878, J. M. Tomlinson, chief clerk of Badger, collector, acting under instructions from Badger, found Guticrez for
the purpose of inspection, obtained the papers issued at Shieldsborough from Gutierez ; that from this date Badger, acting under
the advice or instruction of the Secretary of the Treasury, refused
to deliver the ship's papers to Gutierez, though demanded from
him on the same day or subsequently.
"That on the 4th November, 1879, on information given by
Badger, collector, the Theresa G was libelled for violation of see.
2774, R. S., on part of master, and seized by marshal on 16th
November; that on the 18th November, 1879, Gutierez filed his
claim and bonded the vessel, and she was delivered up to him.
"That on the 18th November, 1879, Gutierez demanded from
Badger the papers taken by Tomlinson, which Badger refused to
deliver; that thereupon Badger reported the facts to the Secretary of the Treasury, who directed Badger to retain the papers
issued at Shieldsborough, and subsequently directed Badger to
send papers to Washington, D. C., which was done.
" That on 18th November, 1879, Badger stated to Gutierez
that the Theresa G might be brought from Caillon Bayou to New
Orleans by SW. Pass, Mississippi River, and lie, Badger, thereupon sent to boarding officers written instruction to let vessel
pass to New Orleans, but that Gutierez declined to bring his
vessel on such permission; that this permission was declined by
Gutierez on the ground that he must have in his possession documentary permission before he could safely navigate his vessel;
that on January 9th, 1880, written permission was given by Badger, collector, to master of the Theresa G to bring said vessel

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
from Caillon Bayou to Lookout Station, in the collection district
of New Orleans ; that said vessel was thereupon brought to Lookout Station, and that on the 24th day of January, 1880, collector
Badger granted clearance papers to said vessel.
" Be it remembered further, that at the conclusion of said trial
the court charged the jury as follows: That the papers of the
vessel were essential to her prosecuting navigation, and that it
was not competent for the collector of the Teche district to have
given to the Theresa G clearance papers under which she could
have proceeded without the production of the ship's papers detained by Badger; that the defendant had the right to seize the
ship, and for such seizure a judgment in another cause had established that there was probable cause, but that if the jury found
from the evidence that the defendant detained the papers of the
ship at a time when the ship was not under seizure, and which
was not deposited with him for the purpose of the vessel's making
an entry or clearance, that for such detention the plaintiff could
recover damages ; that this recovery could be had even if the
papers had been improperly issued by the collector at Shieldsborough ; that detention of the ship's papers, without giving her
others, left her powerless to pursue any navigation of a vessel.
To this instruction, and to each clause of the same, the attorney
for the defendant, then and there and in the presence of the jury
and before they withdrew to deliberate upon the case, excepted."
This instruction presents the main question to be decided.
Other prayers for instructions were asked by defendant which
were either modified or refused. All of these were based upon
the idea that because the master of the schooner had arrived at
Grand Caillon Bayou and failed to report his arrival to the collector of the Teehe district in due time, she, therefore, became
liable to seizure, and the defendant could take her enrolment
and license, however obtained, and detain them and also her
register, as long as it suited him, or that for some other irregularity in issuing them he could do the same thing.
It is to be understood that every vessel of the United States,
which is afloat, is bound to have with her from the officers of
her home port, either a register or an enrohnent. The former
is used when she is engaged in a foreign voyage or trade, and

BADGER v. GUTIEREZ.
Opinion of the Court.

the latter when she is engaged in domestic commerce, usually
called the coasting trade. If found afloat, whether by steam
or sail, without one or the other of these, and without the
right one with reference to the trade she is engaged in, or the
place where she is found, she is entitled to no protection under
the laws of the United States, and is liable to seizure for such
violation of the law, and in a foreign jurisdiction or on the
high seas, can claim no rights as an American vessel.
To seize and detain these papers, therefore, is to expose her
to numerous evils, and, in fact, to prevent her use by her
owners, and, as the mildest evil, to tie her up so long as the
detention of her papers lasts. It is to be observed, that when
he procured the enrolment and license at Shieldsborough, the
owner gave up his register, so that when the license and enrolment were taken from him, his vessel was left without any legal
evidence whatever of her right to pursue either domestic or
foreign trade. It is also to be mentioned, that it is the right
of the owner to exchange a register for an enrolment, and
where this is done, the register is necessarily delivered to the
officer who issues the enrolment.
If this enrolment. was for any reason improperly issued,
there must be methods by which the act may be set aside or
cancelled, or a penalty enforced for its improper use. In such
case, the owner would undoubtedly be entitled to a proper
issue of another enrolment, or to a return of his register.
In no event, that we can conceive of, had the defendant a
right to keep from him both his register and enrolmelt, and
leave his vessel destitute of these indispensable evidences of
her national character and right to pursue her vocation.
Nor do we think that the offence he committed of remaining
in Caillon Bayou justified this detention of his ship's papers.
For that offence the law prescribed a penalty, which the
owner was made to pay. This prosecution for that violation of the law stood on its own ground and had its own
penalty, which did not include a forfeiture or seizure of the
papers of the vessel.
If plaintiff had voluntarily given up his enrolment there
might have been some excuse for withholding it until matters
VOL. cx-47

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

were made right concerning the alleged irregularityr of the exchange of the register for a coasting license and enrolment.
But even while withholding these latter papers he was clearly
entitled to his register, which was refused on demand.
But it is also apparent that the enrolment came into Badger's
possession by means equivalent to a forcible seizure against the
will of plaintiff.
The chief clerk of Badger hunted up Gutierez, and under
pretence of inspecting these papers obtained possession of them
under instruction from Badger, and refused to return them on
demand, as did Badger also.

Though the Secretary of the Treasury justified these proceedings, and acting under his advice Badger refused to deliver
up any of the ship's papers for a considerable time, and they

were finally sent to Washington, we do not see that this made
his course in seizing and detaining the papers any the less a
tort, for which the Secretary could not relieve him from responsibility.
We see no error in the record, and
TAcejudyment of the Circuit Court is cffrmned.

FACTORS' & TRADERS' INSURANCE COM[PANY v.
M[URPHY & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Submitted April 18th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Bankruptcy-fortgage--Sale.
This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisana, in a suit by one citizen of that State against another for the foreclosure of a mortgage on real estate therein, when the only controversy in
the case is as to the effect to be given to a sale of the property under an
order of the District Court of the United States in bankruptcy, to sell the
bankrupt's mortgaged property free from incumbrances.
When a mortgagee of real estate becomes owner of the equity of redemption, a
court of equity will not regard the mortgage as merged by unity of possession, if it was the evident intent that the two titles should be kept distinct,

