OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

The questions raised on the admission of evidence to prove
the existence and discovery of a lode by defendants, were, we
think, well decided and need no further comment.
The decree of the Sipreme Court of Utah is affirmed.

EILERS v. BOATMAN & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TIE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted April 3d, 1884.-Decidcd April 14th, 1884.

Practice.
The Supreme Court of a Territory states as conclusion of law matter which
should be stated as finding of fact. This court treats it as a finding of fact,
under the act of April 7th, 1874, 18 Stat. 27

Action for the settlement of adverse claims to mineral lands
under ยง 2326 Rev. Stat.
Xr. C. If Gilchrist for appellant.
.31r. C. TV Bennett for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This, like Cliambers v. Jlarrigton,ante, 350, is an appeal
from the decree of the Supreme Court of Utah in a contest
for a mine carried on under ยง 2326 of the Revised Statutes.
The appellant does not deny the priority of location, or the
continuous work on the Nabob-the claim of the appelleebut insists that the notice and description of the claim of the
defendants were not sufficient to apprise other prospectors of
its precise location.
This, in the first place, is matter of fact, and was found by
the court below against appellant, for we think that the following language, though called by the judge a conclusion of
law, is really a finding of facts, namely:
"1. That the notice of the location of the Nabob mining
claim contained a sufficient description by reference to natural

EILERS v. BOATMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

objects and permanent and well-known monuments to identify
the same.
"2. That said Nabob claim was so marked on the ground
that its boundaries could be readily placed."
If, however, we revert to the specific findings of fact so
named in the record, we think the second and fourth findings,
which give a more minute description of the courses, distances,
natural objects, and stakes, justify the two conclusions above
recited.
A point is made by appellant that the Flagstaff Mining
Company was in possession of the lode at the time the Nabob
claim was located.
We do not see how this would improve the subsequent location of appellant.
But it is sufficient to say that no such finding is made by
the court in regard to the Flagstaff claim.
By chapter 80 of the acts of Congress, approved April 7,
1874, 18 Stat. 27, this court is required to accept the findings
of fact made by the Supreme Courts of the Territories as true
on appeal to this court. See Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S.610;
Jfecld v. -ougidon, 105 U. S.235.
In this case the Supreme Court in its judgment affirms the
findings of the District Court. As we think the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Utah was right on the facts so found,
there is nothing left but to
-lfirm the judqment, and it i8 8o ordered.

