OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

EDRINGTON v. JEFFERSON & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued April 24th, 25th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Removal of Causes.
When all the defendants in a cause in a State Court have appeared and answered, without filing counter claims or raising new issues, the cause is ready
for trial and can be tried within the meaning of ยง 3 of the Act of March
3, 1875, 18 Stat. 471.
When a cause is at issue and ready for trial in a State Court, and the limitation
provisions of the Removal Act or March 3, 1875, take effect, the right of removal is not revived by subsequent amendments of the pleadings, by leave of
court, which make new issues, nor by the appearance of new parties whose
interests are represented by a party previously in the record.
When a cause is improperly removed from a State Court and a motion to remand it is overruled, that judgment is error which may be corrected here.

The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Ji-'. A. IT
appellant.

Garland (Kr. U. X.L Pose was with him) for

_r.D. E. Xyers (Kr. Il'lliam ..Sneed was with him)
for appellees.
JUSTICE WATTE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of this case, it is only necessary to consider the following facts:
James H. Edrington and J. T. Jefferson were partners in
business at Memphis, Tennessee. Upon the dissolution of the
firm, on or about the 19th of March, 1874, Edrington and his
wife, who is the appellant in this case, conveyed certain lands
inArkansas, known as the Whitmore and Fain plantations, to
John W. Jefferson, a brother of J. T. Jefferson, in trust to
secure the payment of fourteen notes, amounting in the aggregate to $28,754.21, executed by James 1I. Edrington to the
trustee for the benefit of some of the creditors of the firm
whose names were set out in a schedule attached. By the

MR. CHIEF

EDRINGTON v. JEFFERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

terms of the trust, the trustee was empowered to advertise and
sell the property, if default should be made in the payment of
the notes. James I. Edrington died on the 12th of August,
1874, having made a will, by which he devised his property to
his widow, for certain purposes, and appointed her the executrix. The will was admitted to probate, and letters testamentary granted to Mrs. Edrington on the 31st of August.
On the 2d(1 of December, 1874, John W. Jefferson, the trustee, advertised the trust property for sale on the 21st of January, 1875, for default in the payment of the notes. On the
11th of December, Mrs. Edrington, in her own right and as
executrix, began this suit in the Circuit Court of Mississippi
County, Arkansas, against John W. Jefferson, the trustee,
John Matthews, George W. L. Crook, and Emily R. Hazard
and John IHazard, administrators of James T. Hazard, deceased, to enjoin the sale and obtain a settlement of the partnership accounts, the allegations being, among others, that the
deed of trust was procured by the fraud of J. T. Jefferson,
when James i1. Edrington was sick and incapable of transacting business, and that in equity J. T. Jefferson should pay the
debts secured thereby. Natthews, and the representatives of
James H. Hazard, were made parties as the holders of prior
incumbrances on the trust property. Among other allegations
in the bill was one to the effect that the trustee advertised the
sale at the instigation of J. T. Jefferson, rather than of the
creditors who were the beneficiaries under the trust. On the
filing of the bill, a preliminary injunction was granted and
served on the trustee.
No summons was issued or served on any of the defendants,
but on the 1st of March, 1875, John W. Jefferson and J. T.
Jefferson both appeared and filed separate answers to the complaint, in which they met all the charges in the bill, and,
among other things, alleged that the prior incumbrances bad
been paid. Each answer concluded with a prayer in the usual
form, that the respondent be dismissed with his costs. On the
3d of March the defendant John M1'atthews was appointed receiver of the property. At the same time the bill was dismissed as to Crook; and the Washington Fire and Marine In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

surance Company, the Planters' Insurance Company, J. C.
Ward & Co., Appleton, Noyes & Co., and the North American Tie Company, creditors of Edrington & Jefferson and
beneficiaries under the trust, were, on motion, admitted as defendants in the suit, and given twenty days to file their
answers and cross-bills. On the 4th of March, 1875, the cause
was continued by consent of parties until the next term. At
the September term, 1875, F. Banksmith & Co. and Taylor
Brothers, other creditors and beneficiaries, were admitted as
defendants, and they, with the other creditors who had been
admitted before, were allowed ninety days to answer and file
cross-bills. Several orders connected with the administration
of the cause were passed at this term on motion of the different parties. It does not appear from the record that the original complaint was ever amended so as to name the intervening creditors as defendants, or to make any charges against
them, other than such as were contained in the complaint
when the answers of the original defendants, the Jeffersons,
were filed. On the 26th of February, 1876, in vacation, the
Washington Fire and Marine Insurance Company, and the
other creditors who had been formally admitted as defendants,
with some other creditors, also beneficiaries under the trust,
filed an answer to the original complaint and a cross-bill. To
the cross-bill, all the defendants in the original bill, except
Crook, were made defendants, and also the infant children of
James II. Edrington, and all the creditors of Edrington & Jefferson, beneficiaries under the trust, who were not complainants. The prayer was that the claims of the alleged prior incumbrancers might be discharged or made subordinate to the
trust; that the amount due the several creditors might be ascertained; and that the property might be sold to pay what
was found due.
Answers were filed to the cross-bill by some of the persons
named as defendants, and at the May term of the court, after
several orders of administration, the cause was continued.
After this continuance, and in vacation, other answers were
filed to the cross-bill. Testimony was taken and filed at the
November term. On the 15th of November, 1876, the con-

EDRINGTON v. JEFFERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

plainants in the cross-bill dismissed their bill as to all the
defendants therein named, except Mrs. Edrington, her children,
and the several alleged prior incumbrancers, and thereupon, on
the 16th of November, John W. Jefferson, J. T. Jefferson, and
the several creditors who had answered the original complaint,
filed their petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas. In their petition they set forth the citizenship of the parties as in different States, and "that said suit cannot and could
not be tried at the present term of this court, as the same is
not ready for trial or in a condition to be tried." It is also
stated that "in said suit there is a controversy wholly between
petitioners, and the said Nancy A. Edrington, individually and
as said executrix, John Matthews, and the children and heirs
of James I-. Edrington, deceased, which can be fully determined as between them without the presence of the other
parties."
The cause was docketed in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Arkansas on the 9th of March, 1877, and on the
13th of March, Mrs. Edrington moved to remand the case on
the ground, among others, that the petition for removal was
not filed on or before the first term at which the cause could
have been tried. On the 10th of October, 1877, additional
grounds for remanding were presented, but, on the 11th of
October, the motion was denied.
At the October term, 1879, a decree was entered dismissing
the original bill of Mrs. Edrington and finding that all the
incumbrances upon the property prior to the trust deed had
been fully paid and discharged. The decree then found the
amount due on the trust notes, for principal and interest, and
ordered a sale of the trust property, free of all alleged prior incumbrances, to pay what was due. Under this decree a sale
was made and confirmed by the court at the March term,
1880.
From the decree of the October term, 1879, Mrs. Edrington
took this appeal, and, among other things, assigns for error
the refusal of the court to remand the cause upon her motion.
We are of opinion that the petition for removal was filed too

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

late, and that the motion to remand should have been granted.
As Mrs. Edrington was kept in the District Court, and forced
to a hearing there, she has the right, having saved her point
on the record, to have that error corrected here after final
decree below. Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 475; Railroad Com_pany v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 16.
By the laws of Arkansas there were two terms of the State
Circuit Court during the year 1875, one beginning on the first
Monday in March, and the other on the first Monday in September. There were also two terms in 1876, one in May and
the other in November. All the contesting defendants to the
original complaint filed answers and ended the pleadings, so
far as they were concerned, on the 1st of March, 1875. As
these answers contained no counter claim or set off, the issues
were complete between the original parties at that time,
and the plaintiff or the defendants could either of them demand a trial at the next term, which was in November, 1875.
When these answers were filed, John W. Jefferson, the trustee,
represented all the creditors who were beneficiaries under the
trust. His pleading was in law their pleading, and bound
them as well as him. Some of the creditors were admitted as
defendants, not because they were necessary parties to the suit,
but that they might be present to protect their own interests,
if necessary. To let them in no amendment of the complaint
was needed, because the original allegations against their
trustee were in reality allegations against them. They were
given twenty days' time to answer for themselves and to file
a cross-bill. They failed to avail themselves of this rule,
and consequently were in default at the next term. The case,
therefore, stood for trial at the next term, with issues joined
between the plaintiff and the representative of the creditors on
the record. As far as the trustee was concerned, that was the
last term at which he could ask for a removal, whether the
pleadings were amended and new issues raised or not. The
case stood for trial on its merits, with pleadings completed.
Some of the creditors who were beneficiaries had already appeared. Others were admitted at that termn. They made no
complaint of the conduct of their representative upon the

GREENWOOD v. RANDALL.
Opinion of the Court

record. Nis pleadings were their pleadings, and the issues
which he had presented for trial were their issues. The
trustee did not see fit to take steps at that time for a removal;
neither did they. When the term ended, the term at which
the cause, as a cause, could be first tried had passed by, and all
right of removal under the act of March 3d, 1875, then in
force, was gone.
It is true that the creditors got leave to file pleadings within
ninety days, and that their answers and cross-bills were in
before that time expired, but this operated only as an amendment of the original pleadings and created no new right of removal. As was said in Babbitt v. Clark, 103 U. S. 612, "the
act of Congress does not provide for the removal of a cause at
the first term at which a trial can be had on the issues as
finally made up by leave of court or otherwise, but at the first
term at which the cause, as a cause, could be tried."
Without considering any of the other questions presented by
the record,
We reverse the decree, and remand the cause to the District
Court, with instructions to send the case back to the State
courtfrom which it was improperly removed.

GREENWOOD & Others v. RANDALL.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued April 9th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Practice.
If a record fails to present in proper form the questions argued by counsel, the
judgment wilt be affirmed.

.Mr. E. I. Tfoole for plaintiff in error, submitted on his brief.
Alr. Samuel S/hellabargerfor defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This judgment is affirmed. The record fails entirely to
present in proper form any of the questions which have been
argued for the plaintiff in error.
_Aflirned.
MAR. CHIEF JusTICE WAITE

