COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 293
Statement of Facts.

on that identical question, Rector can in this suit correct the
errors of the tribunal in its decision. I think he cannot. If he
can, it is difficult to see why all the decisions of the tribunal
are not open to revision by the courts.
I am authorized to say that Justices JIARLAN, WOODS, and
B3LATCHFORD concur with me in this opinion.

COCITRANE & Others v. ]3ADTSCHE ANILIN & SODA
FABRIK.
APPEAL FROM TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 26th, 27th, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Patent.
If the claim of reissued letters patent No. 4321, Division B, granted to Charles
Graebe and Charles Liebermann, April 4th, 1871, for an " improvement in
dyes or coloring matter from anthracine " (the original patent, No. 95,465,
having been granted to them October 5th, 1869), namely : " Artificial
alizarine, produced from anthracine or its derivatives by either of the
methods herein described, or by any other method which will produce a
like result," is construed so broadly as to cover a dye-stuff, imported from
Europe, made by a process not shown to be the same as that described in
No. 4321, and containing large proportions of coloring matters not shown
to be found to any practically useful extent in the alizarine of the process
of No. 4321, sueh as isopurpurine or anthrapurpurine, it is wider in its
scope than the original actual invention of the patentees, and wider than
anything indicated in the specification of the original patent. If the claim
is to be construed so as to cover only the product which the process described in it will produce, it does not cover a different product, which cannot be practically produced by that process.

This was a suit in equity for the alleged infringement of a
patent for improvement in dyes from anthracine. The nature
of the invention, the extent of the claims, and the facts which
went to show the infringement or to affect the validity of the
patent are fully brought out in the opinion of the court, from
the large mass of testimony in the record. Judgment below
sustaining the validity of the patent, from which the alleged
infringers appealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

_1I1. Ed(ward X. Dickerson for appellants.
fr. Benjami, F. Tlursion for appellee.
JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by Badische Anilin and Soda Fabrik, a corporation organized under
the laws of the Grand Duchy of Baden, in the Empire of Germany, against the a)pellants, for the infringement of reissued
letters patent No. 4,321, granted to Charles Graebe, of Frankfort-on-the-Main, and Charles Liebermann, of Berlin, Prussia,
April 4th, 1871, for an "improvement in dyes or coloring
matter from anthracine." The original patent, No. 95,465, was
granted to the same persons, October 5th, 1869, for an "improved process of preparing alizarine." It was reissued on two
separate amended specifications, Division A and Division B.
No. 4,321 is Division B.
The following is the text of the specifications of No. 4,321
and No. 95,465. Reading in it what is outside of brackets, and
what is inside of the brackets, omitting what is in italics, gives
the specification of No. 4,321. Reading what is outside of
brackets, including what is in italics, omitting what is inside of
brackets, gives the specification of the original patent:
MR.

"Be it known, that we, Charles Gracbe, of Frankfort-on-theMain, and Charles Liebermann, of Berlin, in the Kingdom of
Prussia, have invented a [new and useful improvement in the
manufacture of alizarine ;] process for preparing alizarige frorn
an thracine; and we do hereby declare the following to be a full,
clear and exact description thereof, which will enable those skilled
in the art to make and use the same. We first change the anthracine into anthrakinon (oxanthraeine), a substance known to [the]
chemists by the investigations of Anderson. For this purpose
we take one part, by weight, of anthracine, two and half parts,
by weight, of bichromate of [potash,] potassa, and ten or fifteen
parts, by weight, of concentrated acetic acid, and we heat these
substances together in a vessel, either of glass or clay, to about
100' centigrade to 120 0 centigrade, till nearly all of the bichro-

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 295
Opinion of the Court.
mate of [potash] potassa is dissolved and the liquid has acquired
a deep green color. We then recover the acetic acid not consumed in the reaction by distillation, and treat the residuum
with water to remove the chromic acetate. From the insoluble
mass we obtain the anthrakinon in a pure state by distilling the
whole from a retort of glass or iron. In the place of the acetic
acid, sulphuric acid, diluted with one or two parts of water, may
be employed. Instead of the method just described, we also employ the following one : We heat the anthracine in a vessel of
glass or of clay, with ten parts of concentrated acetic acid, to
about 1000 centigrade, or a little higher, and we add nitric acid
of about 1.3 specific gravity, in small portions, till the violent reaction ceases. After distillation of the acetic acid we purify the
residuum, as before. We then convert the anthrakinon, prepared
by one of the methods described, into bibromanthrakinon. For
this purpose we take three parts of anthrakinon, five parts of
bromine, and we heat these substances for ten or twelve hours, or
until nearly the whole of the bromine has disappeared, to a temperature, by preference, of about 1000 centigrade, in a suitable
close vessel, either of glass or enameled or glazed iron, which is
capable of sustaining the pressure [which is] generated by the reaction. The apparatus is then allowed to cool. It is opened in
order to permit the escape of [bromic] hydrobromic acid, which
can be recovered by absorption either in water or in an alkaline
solution. We purify the bibromanthrakinon remaining in the
vessel, as a solid substance, by crystallization from benzole. Instead of the method above described for preparing bibromanthrakinon, we also employ the following : We convert first the anthracine, into a bromine derivative, into the tetrabromanthracine,
known to chemists by the investigations of Anderson. We take
one part of this tetrabromanthracine, and we heat it in a retort of
glass or clay with about five parts of nitric acid of about 1.3
specific gravity to 1000 centigrade, as long as vapors of bromine
are evolved. We distil off the greater portion of the nitric acid,
wash the residuum with water, and purify it by crystallization
from benzole. We thus receive the bibromanthrakinon as before,
in theform of a yellow, solid mass. We then convert the bibromanthrakinon into alizarine. For this purpose we take one part
of bibromanthrakinon, two to three parts of caustic potash or
soda, and so much water as is necessary to dissolve the alkali, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

we heat the whole in an open vessel of glass, glazed or enameled
iron, or silver, to about 1800 to 260' centigrade for one hour, or
[till] until the mass has acquired a deep blue color. We then
dissolve it in water an4i filter the violet solution, from which we
precipitate the alizarine by an inorganic or organic acid. We
collect the yellow flocks of alizarine thus obtained on a filter and
wash them with water. By these methods we receive the alizarine in a form in which it can be employed in the same manner
as the different preparations from madder. In the place of bromine, chlorine [also] may also be employed, but not so conveniently, as the reactions above described are more difficult to accomplish with chlorine than with bromine. Having thus described
the nature of our invention and the manner of pe formning and
carrying out the same, we would have it understoodthat we do not
confine ourselves to the exact details hereinbejore given."

The claim of No. 4,321 is as follows: "Artificial alizarine,
produced from anthracine or its derivatives by either of the
methods herein described, or by any other method which will
produce a like result." The claim of the original patent was in
these words: "The within described process for the production
of alizarine, by first preparing bibromanthrakinon or bichioranthrakinon, and then converting these substances into alizarine, substantially as above set forth."
The bill of complaint alleges that No. 4,321 was issued "for
a distinct and separate part of the same invention, on a corrected specification," on the surrender of No. 95,465; and No.
4,321 states, on its face, that, on such surrender, new letters
were ordered to issue "on two separate amended specifications." But Division A, No. 4,320, is not in the record before
us. The bill alleges the infringement to have been committed
by making, selling, or using the invention or dyes containing it.
The answer denies the manufacture of alizarine, but avers that
the defendants have sold in the United States alizarine lawfully
made in Germany, and imported as an article of commerce,
which was not made by the process described in No. 4,321, or
any process substantially the same, but was made according to
processes which were invented subsequently to the date of No.
95,465, and are the subject of different and independent letters

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 297
Opinion of the Court.

patent. The answer also avers "that alizarine is a natural
product, having a well-known definite constitution; that it is
not a composition of matter, within the meaning of the statute,
but has been well known in the arts, from time immemorial, for
the purpose of dyeing, and has generally been extracted from
'madder root,' and from other analogous products, by various
processes suitable for that purpose; that, therefore, there can
be no valid patent granted for alizarine; and that No. 4,321 is
void." The answer refers to "Watts' Chemical Dictionary,
published before 1869, under the title Alizcarine, to show that
alizarine was well known long before the said patent;" and
also sets up that the patent had expired because prior patents
granted to the patentees in foreign countries, for the same invention, had expired.
Proofs were taken, and, on final hearing, the Circuit Court
decreed that No. 4,321 was valid, and had been infringed, and
ordered a reference as to profits and damages, and a perpetual
injunction against the making, using, or selling of the article designated in No. 4,321 "artificial alizarine," or dyes containing
the invention described in and secured by No. 4,321. Afterwards, there was a final decree against the defendants for
$13,326.65 and costs, of which $12,871.86 was for profits made
by the defendants, "by the sale of artificial alizarine, in
infringement" of No. 4,321. From this decree the defendants
have appealed.
This reissued patent No. 4,321 has been adjudicated in the
Circuit Courts in several cases. It was before the Circuit Court
in Massachusetts, in February, 1878, and the decision of Judge
Shepley is in Badsche Anilin and Soda Eabrik v. 11amilton
Jfaln faetaring Conpany, 3 Banning & Arden, 235, and 13 Off.
Gaz. 273. It was also before the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York, in September, 1878, and the decision of
Judge Wheeler is in Badsche Anilin and Soda Fabrik v.
[liggin, 15 Blatchford, 290, and 3 Banning & Arden, 462, and
14 Off. Gaz. 414. The decision of Judge Wheeler in the present
case, in April, 1879, is in 16 Blatchford, 155, and in 4 Banning &
Arden, 215. The patent was also before the Circuit Court in
Massachusetts, in September, 1879, and the decision of Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Lowell is in Badiscke Anilin and Soda Fabrik v. Cumins,
4 Banning & Arden, 489. In all of these cases the validity of
No. 4,321 was sustained.
In the case before Judge Shepley, it was held that No. 4,321
was a valid patent for a manufacture and composition of matter, an artificial dye-stuff, called artificial alizarine, being a
new product, produced by a new process, not a chemically pure
alizarine, but having combined with the alizarine in it anthrapurpurine, isopurpurine and other bodies, not known to have
existed before they were produced by Graebe and Liebermann,
the presence of some of which bodies appeared to much enhance,
the value of the dye-stuff. It was decided that the defendants
had used that article.
In the case against Iliggin, it was held that the product of
the process described in No. 4,321 contains isopurpurine,
anthrapurpurine, monoxanthraquinone and other ingredients
which were not only not ingredients in pure alizarine or madder alizarine, but did not exist in any dye-stuff with chemically
pure alizarine, C,141180, before that of Graebe and Liebermann, and are useful coloring agents, so that the product invented is a new composition of matter. It was decided that the
defendants had used or sold dye-stuffs substantially the same,
though claimed to be the product of a different process.
In the present case, it was insisted in the Circuit Court
by the defendants, that the patented product was the
same thing as the natural dye-stuff, alizarine, found in the
root of the madder plant and chemically known by the formula
C 1 4HO, and not patentable. But it was decided that
the article which Graebe and Liebermann bad made synthetically from anthracine, though having the same chemical
formula as madder alizarine, was essentially different, in capabilities and properties, from chemically pure alizarine, madder alizarine, or any coloring matter before known; that the
article dealt in by the defendants was produced by the process
of United States letters patent No. 154,536, granted July 28th,
1874, to Heinrich Caro, Charles Graebe and Charles Liebermann; that the use of sulphuric acid, in the process of the latter patent, performs the same office, in the same way, as the

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 299
Opinion of the Court.

bromine in the process of No. 4,321; and that the products of
the two processes are identical.
In the case before Judge Lowell, he held that what Graebe
and Liebermann sought to discover, and supposed they had
discovered, was the alizarine which is the dye-stuff of madder;
that which is called "artificial alizarine" contains important
dyeing substances not found in madder, namely, anthrapurpurine
and isopurpurine (accordingly as these may be two substances
or one and the same substance) and flavopurpurine, which substances produce valuable effects not produced by any extracts
from madder; that, although the defendant insisted that those
new purpurines were not found in the artificial alizarine made
by the bromine process of No. 4,321, and were found only in
artificial alizarine made by methods invented since Graebe and
Liebermann invented that process, and the evidence on that
point was in much conflict, yet it was shown that pure alizarine,
pure isopurpurine and pure flavopurpurine were all contained
in the patented article; that the artificial alizarine of No. 4,321
is different in some important respects from any article known
before; that the new article of manufacture claimed in No. 4,321
was new in fact; and that the infringement was made out.
In Watts' Dictionary of Chemistry, volume 1, page 113, published in 1866, Alizarin is stated to be a red coloring matter
obtained from madder, first prepared by Robiquet and Colin.
This was in 1826. The correct formula of alizarine, C14 11 04,
was first arrived at by Strecker, in 1866. It means that there
are 14 atoms of carbon, 8 atoms of hydrogen, and 4 atoms of
oxygen, in each molecule. At this stage Graebe and Liebermann took up the subject, and treated madder alizarine with
the view of determining what was its mother substance. They
tell the story themselves, in a paper in the record, entitled
"Artificial Alizarine," which is a translation from the original,
prepared in German by them, contained in the Official Report
of the Vienna Exhibition of 1873, and also published separately
in 1876. They heated madder alizarine with zinc dust, and
made the alizarine give up its 4 atoms of oxygen, and take up
2 atoms more of hydrogen. They thus obtained a hydrocarbon, identical with that found in coal-tar, called anthracine,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and having the formula C 1411 10. They then conceived the idea
of converting anthracine into alizarine. Anthracine was difficult to obtain, and the experiment was conducted on a small
scale. But it resulted in the process described in No. 4,321, of
converting anthracine into anthrakinon, the formula of which
was C1 l0,,
and then heating the anthrakinon with bromine
and obtaining bibromanthrakinon, and heating that with
caustic potash or soda and obtaining alizarine. Graebe and
Liebermann thus solved the problem of the synthesis of alizarine. It was a matter of great scientific interest, and gave
them much reputation. The paper states that the first method
described in No. 4,321 for preparing the bibromanthrakinon
was so laborious that they devised the other method described,
of first converting anthracine into tetrabromanthracine, and
then treating that with nitric acid to obtain bibromanthrakinon. "This method," they state, "made it possible to obtain the alizarine more readily, and aroused hopes of its technical execution," although it involved two more reactions than
the first method.
In regard to the alizarine thus obtained, the same paper says:
"The artificial alizarine, besides having the same composition,
had also the same properties as vegetable alizarine. In hydrated alkalies it is soluble, with a blue violet to purple color.
The solutions of the alkali salts give, with lime, baryta, lead,
iron, alumina and tin salts, lakes corresponding to the madder
lakes. Cloth printed with mordants dye exactly alike with
both coloring matters. From these salt-like compounds yellow
flocculent alizarine is set free by the addition of a mineral acid.
The artificial coloring matter shows the same solubilities, and
the solutions of the alkaline salts the same absorption spectra,
which are known of the natural coloring matter. The free
coloring matter sublimes in beautiful yellow to red needles,
which cluster together like feathers. On oxidizing with nitric
acid, phthalic acid and oxalic acid are formed. Heated with
zinc dust, the artificial alizarine is again converted into anthracine."
The paper then proceeds: "The above methods, which now,
from a technical point of view, have only a historic interest,

COCITRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 301
Opinion of the Court.

and are therefore described without further detail, make up
the subject of the patents taken out in England on the 18th of
December, 1868, and then also in France, Prussia, most German States, Austria, Russia and America." The provisional
specification deposited in the English Patent Office, December
1.8th, 1868, which was the date of the patent, gives a short
description of the process and says: "The alizarine prepared
in this artificial way is perfectly pure, and can be employed in
all the applications for which the different preparations of
The full specification, filed June 17th,
madder are used."
1869, is substantially identical with the specification of No.
95,465, and claims "the artificial production of alizarine, by
first preparing bibromanthrakinon or bichloranthraldnon, and
then converting these substances into alizarine, as herein de.
scribed."
In further pursuing the history of the matter the same paper
proceeds: "The discoverers of the synthesis of alizarine soon
found it necessary to enter into connection with some large dye
factory. This was necessary in order that the raw material
could be more easily obtained, and that the experiments could
be made on a large scale and further developed. This could
be done best with an establishment already in existence, where
the doubtful question, whether this might be the basis of an industry, with hopes of success, could be solved. One of the chief
difficulties experienced was the fact that the raw material was
not only unknown in commerce, but also in the tar industry,
and it was difficult to say whether it could ever be obtained in
sufficient quantity. It was also doubtful whether the artificial
alizarine could compete with the natural. Furthermore, there
was much difficulty in transferring the above methods to a
large scale. Graebe and Liebermann, therefore, entered into
connection with the Baden Anilin and Soda Works, in Ludwigshafen, on the Rhine, the largest works of the kind in
Germany, even on the Continent. [Originally, the experiments
were limited to the purification of the anthracine and the manufacture of anthrakinon by the second mentioned bromine
method, because this, notwithstanding its difficulties, showed
some hopes of success.] " The passage above in brackets by

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

another translation, reads thus: "The first trials principally
embraced the purification of anthracine, the manufacture of
anthrakinon, and the practical application of the second above
mentioned bromine method, as the same, notwithstanding the
great difficulties, still gave assurance that it could be used
practically."
The paper then goes on: " The latter" (meaning the second
mentioned bromine method) "was dropped as soon as the observation was made that the alizarine could be made more
simply by means of anthrakinon sulpho-acids. Graebe and
Liebermann had originally attempted to obtain anthrakinon
sulpho-acids, by acting on anthrakinon with sulphuric acid.
But they made the mistake of using too low heats. The temperatures they employed were not high enough, being not
greater than those generally employed in the preparation of
sulpho-acids. They had also been misled by the observation
that anthrakinon could be sublimed unchanged from stronglyheated sulphuric acid. Therefore they hoped little from sulphoacids, and gave all their attention to improving the above
methods. This mistake was avoided, and the modification of
the synthesis of alizarine which forms the basis of the industry
of to-day, was discovered first by Heinrich Caro, who, as an
officer at the Baden Anilin and Soda Works, made it his task
to give, in combination with Graebe and Liebermann, life to the
alizarine industry. Caro first noticed that anthrakinon, if
heated with sulphuric acid to above 200', would give sulphoacids, which, on fusing with hydrate of potash, formed alizarine, the same as the bromine compound. Perkin noticed the
same fact shortly after or at about the same time. This method
was further developed by Caro and the original discoverers, and
the English patent was taken on June 25th, 1869 (Caro,
Gracbe and Liebermann, English patent, 1869, No. 1,936). The
patent of Perkin is dated June 26th (Perkin, English patent,
1869, No. 1,948). Two methods were discovered, analogous to
the two bromine methods. In the first and most important,
the anthracine is oxidized to anthrakinon; this is converted
into sulpho-acids by heating with sulphuric acid to 200' to
2600; and these, by the beautiful method of Kekul6, Wurtz,

COCIIRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 303
Opinion of the Court.

and Dusart, by fusing with caustic potash or soda, are converted into alizarine. The first process is, therefore, identical
with the first bromine method given above. In the second
method, the sulphuric acid acts on the anthrakinon in such a
manner that, besides the anthrakinon monosulpho-acid, as
principal product, a small amount of anthrakinon bisulphoacid is also formed.
This was subsequently determined
analytically by Graebe and Liebermann. In the patent only
the anthrakinon sulpho-acids are mentioned. From analogy,
Perkin, in his paper (Jour. Chein. Soc. (2) viii., 133, and Ann.
Chem. Pharm. elviii.; 335), considered the bisulpho-acid only.
It is also formed in larger quantity by the excess of acid he
employs in his method, than it is by the method of Caro,
Graebe, and Liebermann."
The reactions in the second method are then given by formulas, in reference to anthrakinon monosulpho-acid and anthrakinon bisulpho-acid, and it is then said: "On fusing the two
sulpho-acids, they give alizarine, exactly like the monobromand bibrom-anthrakinon.
The anthrakinon bisulpho-acid
behaves, for the greater part, if not altogether, fike the monosulpho-acid, and furnishes, instead of the corresponding bioxyantlrakinon" (which is the alizarine of the process of No.
4,321), "essentially trioxyanthrakinon, the isopurpurin." They
then give the two sets of chemical equations, one producing
alizarine and the other producing isopurpurin. Further on, in
the same paper, they say: "As far as has been observed, it
seems that only the anthrakinon monosulpho-acid will produce
alizarine, while the anthrakinon bisulpho-acid produces isopurpurin."
In an article by Graebe in the New Handbook of Chemistry,
published in 1871, he had said: "Alizarine, lizaric acid, madder
red, matiere colorante rouge, first prepared from madder by

Robiquet and Colin, 1826; artificially by Graebe and Liebermann, 1868, from anthracine; formula, C14 1-10 4 ; is derived
from anthracine, and is to be considered as bioxyanthrakinon,
CjJT(0 2)(OI)."
In another publication by Graebe and Liebermann, in 1868,
they had said: "By treating alizarine with zinc dust, a hydro-

OCTOBER TERM, i83.
Opinion of the Court.

carbon was produced, having the composition C 14 1110, and coinciding exactly in its properties with anthracine.
According to our experiments, alizarine, which is hence a derivative of anthracine,, must have the formula C 14 118 04."
In another publication by them, in 1869, they had said:
"We have produced from anthracine artificial alizarine. The
properties of the product obtained by us, as well as the colors
which we have produced with the same on mordanted cotton,
exhibit perfectly the identity of the artificial alizarine with
that obtained from madder root. . . . The methods which
have led to the above results, and which we shall describe later,
confirm the accuracy of the rational formula for alizarine,
recently advanced by us." Again, in a further publication in
1869, they had said: "In our first notice we have already
hinted that we have detected no difference between the natural
and artificial alizarine, and that the very characteristic colors
which both possess, when fixed on cotton mordanted with
alumina and iron, are perfectly identical. We believe, therefore, that it is with one and the same chemical individual we
have to deal, and not with isomerous compounds, of which an
extraordinarily great number is conceivable, and of which an
example already exists, as we have hinted, in chrysophanic acid.
In conclusion, we will call attention to the fact that our production of alizarine is the first example of the artificial formation of a coloring matter occurring in plants."
The various papers thus referred to are, it is understood, put
in evidence, by stipulation, with like effect as if the authors of
them had testified to the facts stated in them.
In Prussia, a patent for five years was granted to Graebe and
Liebermann, March 23d, 1869, for their bromine process, on condition that it should be put into practical operation in 12
months within the kingdom. On the 7th of July, 1870, after
several notices to them, the patent was declared extinct,
because proof bad not been produced of the carrying out of
the patented methods. In view of what Graebe and Liebermann themselves state, in the publication before cited, it is
manifest that the Prussian patent was revoked because the process described was not a practical one. There was nothing

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 305
Opinion of the Court.

practical until the sulpho-acid discoveries were made. In regard to this the paper first cited says: " The patent of Caro,
Graebe and Liebermann is dated one day earlier than that of
Perkin. If any value at all is to be placed in the date, then
Caro must certainly be mentioned first, since the application
for a patent by the German chemist was delayed by an
error. The signing took place at the patent agent's in Berlin. In reference to the above two English patents, Perkin
and the Laden Anilin and Soda Works, proprietors of Caro
and Graebe and Liebermann's patent, made an agreement in
consequence of which the patents became common property.
By the publication of these patents, the sulpho-acid methods
of preparing alizarine became known, and a series of works
were erected in States which gave no, or insufficient, protection to the patentees."
This shows that the only methods
practised commercially were the sulpho-acid methods. The
English patent for the bromine methods expired December
18th, 1871, for the want of payment of a further fee.
The statement of Graebe and Liebermann is, that Caro discovered that, by using anthrakinon with sulphuric acid, he
could obtain sulpho-acids, and then, with hydrate of potash,
procure alizarine, " the same as the bromine compound," that
is, the alizarine of the process of No. 4,321; but that the
bisulpho-acid process, developed by Perkin, produces not the
alizarine of the process of No. 4,321, which is bioxyanthrakinon, but trioxyanthrakinon or isopurpurine. The article sold
by the defendants is this last substance, made by the bisulphoacid process carried on abroad at the present day, and containing large proportions of coloring matters not shown to be
found to any practically useful extent in the alizarine of the
process of No. 4,321, such as isopurpurine or anthrapurpurine,
one or both-two articles, if they are different, or one, if they
are the same, as seems to be shown. No. 4,321 furnishes no
test by which to identify the product it covers, except that
such product is to be the result of the process it describes. The
process by which the defendants' article is made is not shown
to be the same process as that described in No. 4,321. Graebe
and Liebermann, as appears from their own statement, experiVOL. cxi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

mented with sulphuric acid and failed. It was not obvious
that sulphuric acid would accomplish any result, nor was it
obvious how to employ it. Their experiments with it led them
to hope little from it, and to withdraw their attention from it
and devote themselves to improving the bromine and chlorine
methods. They state that Caro avoided their mistakes, and
*was the first to discover the modification which led to success,
and that Perkin was an independent discoverer of it about the
same time. It is, therefore, impossible to say that the sulphuric
acid process was a known equivalent process at the time. It
is easy now, after the event, for scientific men to say, with the
knowledge of to-day, that the thing was obvious. But the
crucial facts contradict the assumption.
It does not satisfactorily appear that the process of No. 4,321
will produce the defendants' article to any useful extent, if at
all. The process of No. 4,321 never was, and is not now,
practically carried on anywhere. The article of No. 4,321 was
called " artificial alizarine," and the article now in the market
is called by the same name, but the identity, in the sense of the
patent law, between them and between the processes for producing them, is not shown.
The English patent to Caro and Graebe and Liebermann
having been granted June 25th, 1869, and the full specification
filed January 13th, 1870, an application for a patent in the
United States for producing artificial alizarine by the sulphoacid processes, was filed by them January 26th, 1870. It was
granted as No. 154,536, July 28th, 1874. The full specification
of the English patent and that of No. 154,536 are identical.
The specifications state that the invention relates to improvements on the invention described in the English patent to
Graebe and Liebermann, of December 18th, 1868, and in No.
95,465, "in which the preparation of artificial alizarine is based
upon the action of caustic alkalies upon bibromanthrakinon or
bichloranthrakinon."
They then proceed: "We have now
discovered that a similar result may be obtained by substituting
sulphuric acid for bromine or chlorine in the above process.
We thus obtain the sulpho-acids of anthrakinon, which, by
being dissolved in and heated with an excess of caustic alkali,

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 307
Opinion of the Court.

are converted into alizarine. This invention relates to improvements in the production of coloring matters, and more especially
to improvements in the method of producing what is known
as artificial alizarine, from anthracine, a method of producing
which was described in" the English patent of December 18th,
1868, and in No. 95,465, "and consisted in the production of
artificial alizarine by converting anthracine into either bibromanthrakinon or bichloranthrakinon, and then acting upon the
same by means of an alkali, and precipitating the alizarine contained in the alkaline solution by means of an acid. In the
complete specification of the aforesaid letters patent granted to
Charles Liebermann and Charles Graebe, two different series of
processes are described for obtaining the brominated or chlorinated derivatives of anthrakinon. In the first of these processes,
the anthracine is submitted to the action of oxidizing agents,
as is well understood, and the oxidized anthracine or anthrakinon is then treated with bromine or chlorine. In the second
of these processes, the anthracine is first treated with bromine
or chlorine, and subsequently submitted to an oxidizing process,
in order that the desired compounds, videlicet, bibromanthrakinon or bichloranthrakinon, may be obtained. In an analogous manner, we now employ sulphuric acid as a substitute for
the bromine or chlorine employed in the processes above referred
to, and we thus obtain the sulphuric acid derivatives of anthrakinon, which we call the sulpho-acids of anthrakinon." The
specifications then go on to describe the two new processes.
The first is, to alter the anthrakinon by heating it with sulphuric acid. The product is then put in solution and treated
with carbonate of lime, and then with carbonate of potash or
of soda, and potash or soda salts of the sulpho-acids of anthrakinon are produced. These are treated with caustic soda or
potash, under heat, and the artificial alizarine is precipitated by
an acid. In the second process, anthracine is heated with sulphuric acid, the product is put in solution, and treated with
peroxide of mianganese, under heat. Caustic lime is then added
in excess, till there is an alkaline reaction, the mixture is then
filtered and carbonate of potash or soda is added to it, and the
potash or soda salts of the sulpho-acids of anthrakinon are pro-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

duced. These are treated with caustic potash or soda, under
heat, the product is put in solution, and the artifical alizarine
is precipated by an acid. It is stated, in regard to this substance, made by either of these two processes, that it "may be
employed for the purposes of dyeing and printing, either in the
same way as preparations of madder are now used or otherwise." In each of the two specifications there are two claims,
in these words:
"1. The manufacture of coloring matters by submitting anthrakinon to the action of sulphuric acid, so as to obtain soluble conxpounds, which we have called sulpho-acids of anthrakinon, treating
the products of such operation with an alkali, and precipitating
the coloring matters therefrom by means of an acid, as herein
described. 2. The manufacture of coloring matters by submitting anthracine to the action of sulphuric acid, oxidizing the product thereby obtained, heating such oxidized product with an
alkali, and subsequently precipitating the coloring matters therefrom by means of an acid, as herein described."
After the granting of the English patent for the sulpho-acid
process, on June 25th, 1869, to Graebe and Liebermann, and
their application for the United States patent on January 26th,
1870, it became apparent that the sulpho-acid processes and
products were to be commercially valuable. Then, during the
interval of the four years and a half delay in the issuing of
No. 154,536, No. 95,465 was surrendered and reissued in two
parts, April 4th, 1871, one for the process and the other for
the product, the claim in the latter, No. 4,321, being so worded
as to cover "artificial alizarine, produced from anthracine or
its derivatives, by either of the methods herein described, or by
any other method which will produce a like result." Afterwards, Graebe and Liebermann assigned the two reissued
patents of April 4th, 1871, to the plaintiff, on March 1st, 1872.
It is very plain that the specification of the original patent,
No. 95,465, states the invention to be a process for preparing
alizarine, not as a new substance prepared for the first time, but
as the substance already known as alizarine, to be prepared, however, by the new process, which process is to be the subject of

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 309
Opinion of the Court.

the patent, and is the process of preparing the known product
alizarine, from anthracine. The specification states that "the
alizarine" is precipitated, that "the yellow flocks of alizarine"
are obtained, and that "the alizarine" is in such a form that it
can be employed in the same manner as the different preparations from madder; and the claim is for the "process for the
production of alizarine." The provisional specification deposited in England, December 18th, 1868, states that "yellow
flocks of alizarine are precipitated," and that "the alizarine
prepared in this artificial way is perfectly pure;" and the full
specification, filed in England, June 17th, 1869, claims "the
artificial production of alizarine." No other conclusion can be
reached than that Graebe and Liebermann, in the specification
of No. 95,465, intended by " alizarine" the chemical substance
known by the formula C14 1T8 04, and thought that was what
their process produced. There is no suggestion of anthrapurpurine or isopurpurine, or of any process for producing them.
Their published statements show that it was the synthesis of
the alizarine of madder which they were maling, the specification of No. 95,465 shows that and nothing else, and it is not
contended that the alizarine of madder contains anthrapurpurine or isopurpurine. It is very clear, from the testimony,
that it is to anthrapurpurine or isopurpurine that the artificial
alizarine sold by the defendants owes its efficiency as a dye-stuff,
and its practical success in the market, and that such product
is produced by the bisulpho-acid process of Perkin; and it is
not satisfactorily shown that the monosulpho-acid process of
Caro or the bromine process of No. 4,321 will either of them
practically produce that product.
Inasmuch as the defendants' article is produced from anthracine or its derivatives by some method, and is a dye-stuff called
artificial alizarine, it is contended that the sale of. it infringes
No. 4,321. The articles in market, called artificial alizarine, at
the present day, are substances all of which are made from
anthracine, but they vary all the way from nearly pure
alizarine, made by the monosulpho-acid process, through the
products of the bisulpho-acid process, which contain combinations of alizarine and anthrapurpurine, up to an article of pure

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

purpurine, free from alizarine. All of these are used as dyestuffs, according to the shade of color and other qualities desired. The specific article put in evidence in this case as an
infringement contains about 60 per cent. of anthrapurpurine.
It is claimed by the plaintiff to be the artificial alizarine described in No. 4,321, and to be physically, chemically, and in
coloring properties similar to that. But what that is is Vot
defined in No. 4,321, except that it is the product of the process
described in No. 4,321. Therefore, unless it is shown that the
process of No. 4,321 was followed to produce the defendants'
article, or unless it is shown that that article could not be produced by any other process, the defendants' article cannot be
identified as the product of the process of No. 4,321. Nothing
of the kind is shown. On the other hand, the defendants'
article is made abroad and by a process different from that of
No. 4,321. It, therefore, cannot be the product of that process. If the words of the claim "by any other method which
will produce a like result " mean any other method which will
produce the only product mentioned in the description, namely,
alizarine, as then understood, having the formula C14 I 04, the
defendants' article is not that product, for it contains other
dyeing ingredients which the alizarine of the patent does not
contain. If the words of the claim are to be construed to
cover all artificial alizarine, whatever its ingredients, produced
from anthracine or jts derivatives by methods invented since
Graebe and Liebermann invented the bromine process, we
then have a patent for a product or composition of matter,
which gives no information as to how it is to be identified. Every patent for a product or composition of matter
must identify it so that it can be recognized aside from the
description of the process for making it, or else nothing can
be held to infringe the patent which is not made by that
process.
The Circuit Court found as a fact that the defendants' article was produced by the process described in No. 154,536.
But it regarded that process as the same process chemically as
the process of No. 4,321, on the view that the bromine used in
the latter was merely a vehicle, and in the former sulphuric acid

COCHRANE v. BADISCHE ANILIN & SODA FABRIK. 311
Opinion of the Court.

was substituted as a vehicle, and, though superior, performed
the same office in the same way; and so, as it regarded the
two processes as the same, it held the two products to be the
same. We consider it, however, to be established that the defendants' article is not made by the process of No. 4,321, but is
made by the bisulpho-acid process of Perkin, which yields
anthrapurpurine, and which, while it may involve the process
of No. 154,536, goes beyond it. The bisulpho-acid process puts
in two atoms of anhydrous sulphuric acid instead of one, and
additional oxygen is carried in, and anthrapurpurine is produced, the formula of which is C14H 80 5. Aside from this, it
is shown that the dyeing qualities of the defendants' article
depend on the anthrapurpurine or isopurpurine it contains, and
not on the alizarine. As the only alizarine mentioned in No.
95,465, or in No. 4,321, is alizarine the formula of which is
C141T8O4, the alizarine of madder, the process described in
those patents, to be a sufficient support for a valid patent, as
being properly described, must be a process which will produce
that article and no other; and No. 4,321, to be valid as a
patent for a product, must be a patent which will produce, by
the process it describes, that article and no other. Unless that
process will practically produce the defendants' article, No.
4,321 is not infringed; and it is not established, by the evidence,
that it will.
There is another view of the case. According to the description in No. 95,465, and in No. 4,321, and the evidence, the
article produced by the process described was the alizarine of
madder, having the chemical formula C 4X10 4. It was an
old article. While a new process for producing it was patentable, the product itself could not be patented, even though it
was a product made artificially for the first time, in contradistinction to being eliminated from the madder root. Calling it
artificial alizarine did not make it a new composition of matter, and patentable as such, by reason of its having been prepared artificially for the first time from anthracine, if it was
set forth as alizarine, a well known substance. The JWood
Paper Patent, 23 Iow. 566, 593. There was, therefore, no
foundation for reissue No. 4,321, for the product, because, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the description given, no patent for the product could have
been taken out originally.
Still further, the claim of No. 4,321 is not a claim merely for
the product of the process described in it, but is a claim for
anything which may be called artificial alizarine, produced
from anthracine or its derivatives, by either of the methods
described, or by any other method, equivalent or not, which
will produce anything called artificial alizarine. The scope of
such a claim is seen in this suit. An article is sought to be
covered by the reissue, which it is demonstrated Graebe and
Liebermann never made by their bromine process, which they
knew that process would not produce, which they recognized
as produced first by some one else by a different process, and
which has become the subject of a large industry abroad and
an extensive use in this country, through discoveries made, as
they acknowledge, since their bromine process was invented.
After those discoveries were made, after it was seen that the
bisulpho-acid process would produce desirable dye-stuffs, and
could be worked practically and profitably to that end, it was
sought to control the market for -the product in the United
States, by obtaining this reissue No. 4,321.
We have not deemed it necessary to consider more particularly the question whether the reissued patent, No. 4,321, is or
is not for a different invention from that described in the original patent. It certainly is, unless the product claimed in the
reissue is precisely that product, and no other, which the process
described in the original patent produces. There can be no
better evidence, as against the appellee, of what that product
is, than the declarations of the original patent itself, and of the
patentees elsewhere, as already shown. Nor have we deemed
it necessary to inquire or determine whether, even if the product claimed in the reissue were the same as that which the
process described in the original patent produces, it could have
been made the subject of a reissued patent at the time when,
and under the circumstances in which, this reissue was made.
It is so clear that the defendants are not shown to have infringed, that we have not deemed it necessary to consider other
questions any further.

ARMOUR v. HAHN.
Statement of Facts.

It results, from these considerations, that, if the claim of INo.
4,321 is to be construed so broadly as to cover the defendants'
article, it is wider in its scope than the original actual invention of Graebe and Liebermann, and wider than anything indicated in the specification of the original patent; and that, if it
is to be construed so as to cover only the product which the
process described in it will produce, it is not shown that the
defendants' article is that product or can be practically produced by that process. In either view,
Dihe decree o$ the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case

be reemanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the bill
of complaint.

ARMOUR v. IHAIIN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Argued April 3d, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

.Masterand Servant.
The obligation of a master to provide reasonably safe places and structures for
his servants to work upon does not oblige him to -keep a building, which
they are employed in erecting, in a safe condition at every moment of their
work, so far as its safety depends on the due performance of that work by
them and their fellow servants.
Carpenters, under charge of a foreman, and bricklayers, all employed by the
owner through his superintendent, were engaged in the erection of a building, with a cornice supported by sticks of timber passing through the wall
(which was thirteen inches thick) and projecting sixteen inches, and to be
bricked up at the sides and ultimately over the top of the timbers. When
the wall had been bricked up on a level with, but not yet over, the timbers,
the foreman of the carpenters directed two of them to take a joist for the
edge of the cornice, and to push it out to the ends of the projecting timbers. In so arranging the joist, a carpenter stepped on the projecting part
of one of the timbers, which tipped over, whereby he fell and was hurt.
Ield, That the owner of the building was not liable to him for the injury.

This is an action brought by Hahn against Armour and
others (of whom Armour alone' was served with process), to
recover damages for injuries suffered by the plaintiff while

