TURNER & SEYMOUR CO. v. DOVER STAMP'G CO. 319
Opinion of the Court.

within the strictest limits of the rule of law upon the subject,
fellow servants, one of whom cannot maintain an action for
injuries caused by the negligence of another against their common master. 1hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; Randall
v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity
Judgment revered.
with this opinion.

TURNER & SEYMOUR MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. DOVER STAMPING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIIE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT

OF CONNECTICUT.

Submitted March 31st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Patent.
When an inventor takes out a patent founded on a claim which does not include his whole invention, and rests for twelve years, and then surrenders
his patent and takes a reissue with a broader claim, under circumstances
which warrant the conclusion that the act is caused by successful competition of a rival, he will be held to have dedicated to the public so much of
his invention as was not included in the original claim. Miller v. Brass
Company, 104 U. S. 850, cited and followed.

This was a bill in equity brought by the appellees to enjoin
the appellants from infringing their rights as assignees of a
patent for an improvement in egg-beaters. The decree below
granted the injunction and determined the amount of profits.
From this decree the defendant below appealed. The invention and claims are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John,S. Beach and lr. John -

Beach for appellant.

2Wr. E Jerwin and Mr. T'. TV Clarke for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MArrHEws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellees as assignees of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Timothy Earle, for an injunction and an account, against the
appellants, as infringers of reissued letters patent No. 6,542, for
an improvement in egg-beaters, dated July 13th, 1875, for
which the application was filed June 8th, 1875, the original No.
39,134, dated July 7th, 1863.
The bill was filed July 14th, 187, an interlocutory decree
declaring the infringement and granting a perpetual injunction
was pronounced July 9th, 1879, and a final decree in favor of
the complainants confirming the master's report of the amount
of profits made by the defendants was entered April 26th, 1881.
From this decree the present appeal is prosecuted.
The following is a copy of the reissued letters patent, in
which the parts in italics are not in the original, and the parts
enclosed in ] are in the original, and excluded from the
reissue:
"To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Timothy Earle, of Lincoln (formerly
Smitlkfeld), in the County of Providence and State of Rhode
Island, have invented [a] certain new and useful improvements
in egg-beaters ; and I do hereby declare that the following
specification, taken in connection with the drawing, making a
part of the same, is a full, clear, and exact description thereof.
"Figure 1 is a view of the beater. Fig. 2 is another view of
the same, with the rack which works it shown. Fig. 3 is a top
view of the same.
"Various devices have been employed for the purpose of beating eggs more expeditiously than by the familiar hand process.
One of these devices consists of two wire frames, one within the
other, and made to revolve in opposite directions ; another consists of a propeller-blade inside of a wire frame, the frame and
blades being made to revolve in opposite directions; and still
another consists of a propeller-blade, which is made to rotate, while
a pair of beaters have at the same time a reciprocating motion.
"All these machines, and all others with which I am acquainted,
possess the common fault that the beaters, whether of wire or of
the form of propeller-blades, do not cut the yolk and white of the
egg, but literally beat them.
"Now, as the albumen of an egg consists of a peculiar thick,

TURNER & SEYMOUR CO. v. DOVER STAMP'G CO. 321
Opinion of the Court.
glairy substance, it can be worked more effectually with a cutting
instrument than with one which has a blunt edge. In fact, so
well is this understood that housewives [universally] commonly
make use of the blade of a knife for the purpose.
"My invention is designed to obviate the difficulty referred to
and consists in the use of a revolving frame, A, formed of"thin
Strips of metal of the form shown, and mounted upon a spindle,
B, around which it can freely rotate ; and also of an outer fixed
frame, C, of the same general form as the inner one, but large
The outer
enough to permit the inner frame to rotate within it.
frae
is attached to the spindle B, and with it furnishes a support
or frame for the operative parts of the machine [for it.] The
inner frame is further provided with a series of cutters or blades
[a a a a] a a, etc., arranged in any manner suitable for cutting
through the fluid in many different [planes] places. These cutters
or blades are simply pieces of sheet-tin or other suitable metal
of the width of the inner frame, and are attached to the same by
their ends, as is shown, and they are all so placed that their edges
shall cut the material to be agitated when the frame A is rotated.
Tle blades which form the outer fixed fraame C are also placed in
a similar position, and when the machine is in operation, cut
through the current of" material which is carriedpast them by the
revolving frame, and thus aid in the operation in a similar manner. Upon the top of the frame A is attached a tooth wheel, D,
through which, by means of the rack, E, Fig. 3, worked by the
band, a rotary motion is given' to the inner Jarame A in alternate
directions. The frame C, at its upper end, is so formed and
arranged in relation to the pinion _D as to leave the proper space
between. them, upon either side, to receive the rack, L, and serve as
a guide or bearing to heep the rack in gear with the pinion ; and
II is a circularflange attached to the lower side of the pinion to
prevent the rack from falling down.
" MXy invention also relates to the method of holding the machine
in position while it is used. In the previous machines Jor this
purpose the machine has been generally attached to or supported
upon and in connection with the vessel which contained the materials to be operated upon, thus requiring a specific kind of vessel
.for the purpose, which, in efect, formed part of the machine; or
the.frame of the machine wasflxed to some stationary object, with
the revolving beater or beatersprojecting downward below the maVOL. cxi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
chine into the vessel which contained the matters to be treated, the
vessel being held below the machine, and entirely detached from
it. But by my improvement the machine becomes a separatedetached implement, which can be used in any vessel, and without
any mechanical fastening of the machine to the vessel or to any
other object. T7his part of my invention, therefore, consists in
providing the bottom of the fixed frame C of the machine with a
foot, 1, or other suitable support, to rest-upon the bottom of the
vessel to support the lower part of the machine and raise the revolving-beaterframe A above the fixed frame C sufficiently to permit it to revolve freely; and also providing the top of the machine with a handle, G, by which the machine can be held upright
upon the bottom of the vessel by one hand, while the beater-frame
is operated by the other, as is described.
"When the machine is to be used it is placed with its foot F
resting upon the bottom of the vessel containing the broken eggs.
The left hand bears upon the handle G and holds the machine in
position. The rack E, held by the handle in the right hand, is
engaged with the pinion D, and the proper motion imparted to the
frame A.
"It is obvious that a continuous rotary motion may be easily
imparted to the frame A by means of a crank and suitable gearing, and the beneficial effect of the blades or cutters [a a a] A, a,
etc., would be obtained as well ; but I prefer the method described
of communicating motion to frame A, for the reason that the machine is more easily cleaned and is more convenient for domestic
use.
"[What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by letters
patent is the use of a series of cutting edges a a a a when attached
to a frame A, which is capable of being rotated substantially as
described for the purpose specified.]
" What I claim is:
"1. The revolving beater-frameformed of thin plain blades or
cutters, arranged to cut edgewise through the material by their
rotation, substantially as described.
"2. The combination of the fixed frame, which contains and
supports the operative machinery, provided with afoot or support
at the bottom, the handle at the top, and sitable mechanism for
rotating the beater, substantially as described."

TURNER & SEYMOUR CO. v. DOVER STAMP'G CO. 323
Opinion of the Court.

The following is a copy of Fig. 2 annexed to specifications
and sufficiently illustrates them:

The cutting portion of the appellant's beater consists of an
outer frame and inner frame, each of which is made to revolve
around a central spindle by means of a cog-wheel and pinion.
Each frame is composed of two curved pieces of tin joined together, or of one piece joined at its two ends so as to make
nearly a circle; these pieces are thin, plain, flat pieces of tin,
and are so arranged as to cut edgewise through the material by
their rotation. In neither the inner nor the outer frame are
there any additional blades or cutters like the blades a, a,
a, a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It is represented in the following drawing:

The controversy in the Circuit Court seemed to be mainly on
the question of infringement; and that turned on the construction to be given to the first claim of the reissued patent, no
point being made as to the second claim. It was insisted by
the defendants below that their device was not an infringement of the claim as contained in the original patent, and that
a fair construction of the first claim in the reissued patent
would limit it substantially to the same thing. In deciding the
point, the learned judge, holding the Circuit Court, said:
"The question of infringement of the first claim of the reissued patent depends upon the construction of the claim. If
it should be properly limited so as to be confined to the frame
with the cutters or blades, which are described in the specification and in the drawings, to wit : a frame with the cutters, a,
a, a, a, then there is no infringement ; but if the claim is to be
construed so as to include a beater frame formed of thin, plain
blades, then the invention which is recited in the first claim is
found in the defendants' egg-beater.
"The devices which were in use prior to the invention of the
plaintiffs' assignor were composed of round wire, which, by
their rotation, broke rather than cut the material. The part of

TURNER & SEYMOUR CO. v. DOVER STAMP'G CO. 325
Opinion of the Court.

the invention which is the subject of the first claim consisted
in such an introduction of the knife-blade of the housewife and
the mechanism for operating the blade into an egg-beater, that
the egg could be rapidly cut, and the egg matter could be
aerated, and be beaten into froth. The original, and also the
reissued specification, dwelt upon the particular form of the
cutters of the inner frame, and the original claim limited the
invention to the cutters a, a, &c., but the scope of the invention
was larger, and the principle was embodied in any revolving
frame composed of thin and plain, as distinguished from corrugated, cutting surfaces, so arranged as when rotated to cut
edgewise through the material, provided the frame was constructed and arranged substantially in the manner described in
the specification. It is not claimed that the reissue is void,
upon the ground that it is for a different invention from that
shown or indicated in the original specification, but such a construction is attempted to be given to the reissued claim, as
would limit it to the precise language of the surrendered patent.
The patent was surrendered because the grant was not co-extensive with the invention, and it would be an unnatural construction of the reissued patent, which should cramp the claim
within the limitations which had been discarded. In my
opinion, the natural meaning of the words which were used is
to be permitted, and giving to the claim such a freedom of construction, the defendants' device is an infringement."
We are quite satisfied that the difference between the
original claim and the first claim of the reissued patent, is substantial and not verbal. The former is necessarily limited to
the particular device described as a frame, with a series of
cutting edges attached, in the mode designated, and capable of
rotation. The latter embraces every revolving beater-frame,
formed of thin, plain blades or cutters, arranged to cut edgewise through the material by their rotation. It is immaterial
whether or not the latter might have been covered by the
language of the specification, as included in the invention. We
are dealing with the claims, and nothing else. And it cannot
be successfully contended that the original claim implicitly
contained all that is expressed in the claim of the reissued

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

patent. The original claim has been made broader by the reissue, so as to embrace the device used by the appellants, which
was not previously an infringement.
And that raises the question, whether, under the circumstances disclosed by this record, the reissue is valid.
To avoid this question, it is, indeed, contended now by the
appellees, that the two claims under examination are identical;
that their apparent differences are merely literal; that their
meaning is the same; and this conclusion is thought to be
reached, not by restraining the reissue to the language of the
original, but by a process of construction, by the use of supposed implications, to expand the words of the original so as to
covereverything embraced in the reissue; the only alternative,
indeed, that could be adopted, to escape the inconsistency of
maintaining that claims, which were diverse upon the question
of infringement, were identical upon the question of the
validity of the patent.
But, as already intimated, this position is not tenable. There
is nothing in the language or recitals of the original patent,
nor are there any just and reasonable inferences of which they
are susceptible, which justify a construction of the claim that
would embrace any device other than that described in the specifications and represented in the drawings; much less to include
every mechanical arrangement which embodies a cutting edge
with a revolving frame, to cut instead of break the egg material upon which it is meant to operate.
The question then recurs, what are the circumstances which
affect the validity of the reissue, and how do they affect it ?
They are few, but decisive. The original patent was issued
July 7th, 1863. Eleven years after, in 1874, the competition
of the appellants' device became apparent and was felt. In
1875, application was made for the reissue; the original patent
was surrendered and the reissued patent granted, July 13th,
1875. Here is a delay of nearly twelve years, without the offer
of an explanation or excuse, without even the suggestion of inadvertence or mistake in the original application. The only
inference that can be drawn is, that the discovery and experience of successful competition in 1874 suggested first and led

IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
Statement of Facts.

to the discovery, that the original claim did not cover everything that might have been embraced, and was not broad
enough to maintain the monopoly desired but not secured.
This brings the case directly within the principle of Miller v.
Brass Cognany, 104 U. S. 350, and the numerous others which
have followed it, including that of Clements v. Odorless Apparatus Company, 109 U. S. 641, all of which have been decided since the interlocutory decree in this case was pronounced.
For these reasons,
The decree of the Cireuit Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill, and it is so
ordered.

IRVINE v. DUNHAM.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued March 31st, April 1st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884,

Trust.
On the facts in this case the court finds that the deed in controversy was not
a mere gratuity and left in escrow; but that it was delivered, and imposed
upon the appellant a trust in favor of the grantor of the appellee to which
the appellee has succeeded.
When a trustee denies the trust and refuses to perform it a court of equity
will appoint a new trustee in his place, and the old trustee will not be entitled
to retain the property under cover of having an account as trustee, before
paying over the net proceeds.

The bill of complaint in this case was filed by Dunham, the
appellee, against Irvine, the appellant. It averred that on
March 28th, 1874, Irvine and one Richard II. Sinton were the
joint and equal owners of one undivided half of the Morgan
Mine in Calaveras County, in the State of California; that the
legal title to such undivided half was vested in Irvine, but was
held by him in trust for himself and Sinton equally, share and
share alike; that the undivided half of the mine had been ac-

