FRIEND v. WISE.
Opinion of the Court.

have the cause docketed within the time required by law, is
not a final judgment or a final decision within the meaning of
those terms as used in sections 702 and 1911 of the Revised
Statutes regulating writs of error and appeals to this court
from the Supreme Court of the Territory. Section 702 provides for the review of final judgments and decrees by writ of
error or appeal, and section 1911 regulates the mode and manner of taking the writ or procuring the allowance of the appeal.
The use of the term "final decisions" in section 1911 does not
enlarge the scope of the jurisdiction of this court. It is only a
substitute for the words "final judgments and decrees" in section 702, and means the same thing.
The dismissal of the writ was a refusal to hear and decide
the cause. The remedy in such a case, if any, is by mandamus
to compel the court to entertain the case and proceed to its
determination, not by writ of error to review what has been
done. Ex parte -Bradstreet,7 Pet. 647; Ex _parte Newmnan,
14 Wall. 165.
Dismlssed.

FRIEND & Another v. WISE.
IN ERRIOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT

STATES FOI

THE

OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Jusrisdiction.
In ejeetment in which several defendants are joined who hold separate tracts
adversely to the plaintiff, this court will not dismiss the writ of error because
each separate tract is not of the jurisdictional value, if their combined
values are sufficient to give jurisdiction,

Motion to dismiss, with which a motion to affirm was united.
Mr. Ienry Beard and XT,. Otarles I. Armes for defendant
in error in support of the motion.
Mr. William J. Jo/nson for plaintiffs in error, opposing.
MR. CHlEr

JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

These motions are denied. The value of the two sections of
land which are in dispute is conceded to be more than $5,000.
The complaint alleges a joint entry and ouster, and the answer
does not set up separate claims to distinct parcels of the land
by the several defendants. The judgment for the recovery of
the possession is against all the defendants jointly. In this
respect the case is entirely different from those of Tapper v.
Wise and _Lynch v. Bailey, 110 U. S. 398. We have jurisdiction therefore.
The questions arising on the merits are, some of them, of a
character that ought not to be disposed of on a motion to
affirm.

KILLIAN v. EBBINGHAUS.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

-fandate-Pracice.
An appeal was taken from the court below by appellant under an incorrect
description, not corresponding with the title in the court below. Under
this incorrect title proceedings were conducted to final judgment here
and a mandate issued. That mandate is now recalled and a new one issued
conforming the title and description to those in the court below.

This was a motion to correct an error in the mandate issued
on the judgment reported in Killian v. Ebbing/aus, 110 U. S.
568.
XTr'. Gcrnet and

[r. Robinson for the motion.

ilir. Cupy and iJXr. Dye opposing.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought against the trustees of the German
Evangelical Concordia Church, then in possession of the premises in dispute. They answered by that name, setting up their
title to the property and their claim to the possession. The
record shows a notice by Ebbinghaus, the appellee and comMR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE

