EX PARTE VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE VIRGINIA.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 3d, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Statutes-Sureplus Revenue.
The Secretary of the Treasury
United States, accrued since
States the fourth instalment
of the act of June 23d, 1836,

is not authorized to use the revenues of the
January 1st, 1839, in order to deposit with the
of surplus revenue according to the provisions
5 Stat. 55.

This was a petition on the part of the State of Virginia for a
writ of mandamus upon the Secretary of the Treasury to compel him to pay to the State from the present surplus revenues
of the treasury the fourth instalment of surplus revenue
directed by the act of June 23d, 1836, 5 Stat. 55, to be deposited
with the States.
fr. T. Willoughby and Mr. F.. E Alexander for the petitioner.
IARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application for a writ of mandamus directed Io
the Secretary of the Treasury, commanding him to deliver to
the proper officer of the Commonwealth of Virginia the sum
of $732,809.33-that being, it is claimed, the amount of the
fourth instalment of the public money of the United States required by the act of Congress, approved June 23, 1836, to be
deposited with that State upon the terms and conditions therein
prescribed.
The thirteenth and fourteenth sections of that act-the only
parts thereof material to the present inquiry-are as follows:
MR. JUSTICE

"SEc. 13.

Andbe itfurther enacted,That the money which shall

be in the treasury of the United States on the first day of January, eighteen hundred and thirty-seven, reserving the sum of five
millions of dollars, shall be deposited with such of the several
States, in proportion to their respective representation in the
Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, as
shall, by law, authorize their treasurers, or other competent au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
thorities, to receive the same on the terms hereinafter specified
and the Secretary of the Treasury shall deliver the same to such
treasurers or other competent authorities, on receiving certificates
of deposit therefor, signed by such competent authorities, in such
form as may be prescribed by the Secretary aforesaid ; which
certificates shall express the usual and legal obligations, and
pledge the faith of the State for the safe-keeping and repayment
thereof, and shall pledge the faith of the States receiving the
same to pay the said moneys, and every part thereof, from time
to time, whenever the same shall be required by the Secretary of
the Treasury, for the purpose of defraying any wants of the
public treasury, beyond the amount of the five millions aforesaid :
Provided, That if any State declines to receive its proportion of
the surplus aforesaid, on the terms before named, the same shall
be deposited with the other States agreeing to accept the same on
deposit, in the proportion aforesaid : And providedfurther, That
when said money, or any part thereof, shall be wanted by the said
Secretary to meet appropriations by law, the same shall be called
for, in ratable proportions, within one year, as nearly as conveniently may be, from the different States with which the same
is deposited, and shall not be called for in sums exceeding ten
thousand dollars from any one State, in any one month, without
previous notice of thirty days for every additional sum of twenty
thousand dollars which may at any time be required.
" Snc. 14. And be it further enacted, That the said deposits
shall be made with said States in the following proportions, and
at the following times, to wit : one-quarter part on the first day
of January, eighteen hundred and thirty-seven, or as soon thereafter as may be ; one-quarter part on the first day of April, onequarter part on the first day of July, and one-quarter part on the
first day of October, all in the same year." 5 Stat. 55.

On the 20th of December, 1836, Virginia, by legislative enactment, signified her acceptance of the terms and conditions
of this act, of which due notice was given to the Secretary of
the Treasury and to Congress.
On the 1st day of January, 1837, as appears from a letter of
the Secretary of the Treasury to the Speaker of the I-ouse of
Representatives, under date of January 3d, 1837, the balance

EX PARTE VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

in the treasury-in excess of 85,000,000-subject to be deposited with the States, was $37,468,859.97, of which Virginia
would have been entitled, under the act of June 23, 1836, to
the sum of $2,931,237.34, payable in four instahnents. Ex.
Doe. 2d Sess. 24th Congress, vol. 2, Doe. No. 62. The first
three instalments were deposited with the States, at the respective dates fixed in the act of Congress, but no part of the fourth
has ever been delivered. The reason why the last instalment
was not deposited on the 1st of October, 1837, is shown by the
message of President Van Buren to Congress, at its extra session in September of that year. le said: "There are now
in the Treasury $9,367,214, directed by the act of the 23d of
June, 1836, to be deposited with the States in October next.
This sum, if so deposited, will be subject, under the law, to be
recalled, if needed, to defray existing appropriations; and, as
it is now evident that the whole, or the principal part of it,
will be wanted for that purpose, it appears most proper that
the deposits should be withheld." 5 Cong. Globe and Appendix, 8, 1st Sess. 25th Congress.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his report to Congress, at
the same session, after alluding to the then disturbed condition
of the finances, and to the fourth instalment payable in October, 1837, suggested that, in view of the condition of the finances, "and the importance of meeting with efficiency and good
faith all the obligations of the government to the public creditors, it would be most judicious to apply the whole instalment, as fast as it is wanted and can be collected, to the prompt
discharge of these obligations; and that the last deposit with
the States, not being a debt, but a mere temporary disposal of
a surplus, should be postposed until Congress, in some different
state of the finances, when such an available surplus may exist,
shall see a manifest propriety and ability in completing the
deposits, and shall give directions to that effect." Ex. Doe.
and Reports of Committees, 1st Sess. 25th Congress, Doe. No. 2.
By an act of Congress, approved October 2d, 1837, it was
provided "that the transfer of the fourth instalment of deposit
directed to be made with the States under the thirteenth section of the act of June 23d, 1836, be and the same is hereby

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

postponed until the 1st day of January, 1839: Provided, That
the three first instalments under the said act shall remain on
deposit with the States until otherwise directed by Congress."
5 Stat. 201.
But, on the 1st day of January, 1839, there was not, as the
petition admits, in the treasury, a sufficient amount to meet that
instahnent after paying existing appropriations for the current
expenses of the government. And by the third section of an
act approved August 13th, 1841, the entire act of June 23d,
1836, excepting its thirteenth and fourteenth sections, was repealed. 5 Stat. 440.
The petition concedes that at no time since January 1st, 1841,
until within the past few years, has there been in the treasury,
a surplus of money large enough, after defraying existing
charges imposed by Congress, to make the fourth instalment
of deposit.
It is, however, alleged that there is now in the treasury of
the United States a sufficient sum of money, after defraying
all the existing charges imposed by Congress upon the treasury, and not needed or wanted by the Secretary to meet appropriations by law, or to meet the interest accruing upon the
public debt or to meet all the expenditures of the government,
estimated or ascertained by him for the present fiscal year, to
make the deposits of the fourth instalment with all of the
States with which said deposits were directed to be made.
The present Secretary of the Treasurv, bving refused, upon
the demand of Virginia, by its duly authorized agent, to use
any part of the public moneys for the purpose of meeting that
instalment, the present application has been made for a mandamus compelling him to deposit with that State an amount
equal to one-fourth of the said sum of $2,931,237.32.
No case is made for a mandamus. If it was the duty of the
Secretary of the Treasury, in execution of the act of 1836, to
make the fourth instalment of deposit on the day fixed in that
act, whatever may have been, on that day, the wants of the
public treasury, his failure to do so was legalized by the act of
October 2d, 1837, postponing that deposit until January 1st,
1839. Of the latter act the State could not complain, because

EX PARTE VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

that of January 23d, 1836, created no debt or legal obligation
upon the part of the government, but only made the States the
depositaries, temporarily, of a portion of the public revenue
not needed, as was then supposed, for the purposes of the
United States.
What was the duty of the Secretary, on January 1st, 1839,
to which time, by the act of 1837, the deposit of the fourth instalment was postponed ? It is conceded that there was not in
the treasury, on January 1st, 1839, a sufficient amount, available and applicable to public purposes, after paying necessary
appropriations for the expenses of the government, to meet
that instalment, lie could not, therefore, do what he might
then lawfully have done, bad the treasury, on January 1st,
1839, been in the condition contemplated by Congress when the
act of 1837 was passed. The last direction given by the legislative department upon the subject of this instalment, is found
in the latter act. No authority has been conferred upon the
Secretary, by subsequent legislation, to use any surplus revenue
accruing after January 1st, 1839, for the purpose of meeting
the fourth instahnent of deposit. Congress, by the original
act, as we have seen, charged the payment of the several instahnents upon the revenue above $5,000,000 which might be
in the treasury on January 1st, 1837. That charge was transferred to and imposed upon the surplus revenue in the treasury
on January 1st, 1839. But no such charge has been imposed
upon the revenue accruing subsequently to the latter date.
Congress has permitted the thirteenth and fourteenth sections of the act of 1836, as modified by the act of October 2d,
1837, to stand, for the purpose, as we infer, of showing not
only the terms upon which the States received the three first
instalments of deposit, but that those instalments are held
by the States, subject to be recalled in the discretion of the
United States.
But the legislative department of the government seems purposely to have refrained from making the fourth instalment of
deposit a charge directly upon any revenues accruing since
January 1st, 1839. Since the last direction given by Congress
upon the subject, the financial necessities and obligations of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

government have been largely increased, and this circumstance,
perhaps, suggests the reason why the legislative department
has not fixed any day for the final execution of the act of 1836.
Be the reason what it may, we are of opinion that the Secretary of the Treasury has no authority under existing legislation and without further direction from Congress, to use the
surplus revenue in the treasury, from whatever source derived,
or whenever, since January 1st, 1839, it may have accrued, for
the purpose of making the fourth instalment of deposit required
by the act of 1836.
The petition for a mandamus must, consequently, be denied.
It is so ordered.

STEVENS v. GRIFFITH.
IN

ERROR

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

Submitted February 4th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Rebellion.
A judgment of a Confederate court during the rebellion confiscating a claim
due to a loyal citizen residing in a loyal State, and payment of the claim to
a Confederate agent in accordance with the judgment, are no bar to a recovery of the claim. Williams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176, and 102 U. S. 248,
cited and its principal points restated and affirmed.

This was an action in a State court in Tennessee to recover
a legacy bequeathed the plaintiff by a will proved in Monroe
County, Tennessee, in 1859. The defence set up a judgment
of a Confederate court, during the rebellion, confiscating the
legacy and payment of the judgment. The defence was overruled in the court below where the original trial was had, and
sustained in the Supreme Court of Tennessee on appeal. The
plaintiff below then sued out this writ of error.
)'Jr.James X Durham for plaintiff in error.

No brief filed for defendant in error.

