OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

part of the defendant, which may have been the legal cause of
the injury to the plaintiff, according to the rule established in

Railroad Comnpany v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657, and Randall v. B.
& 0. Railroad Conq2any, 109 U. S. 478, should have been submitted to the jury; and for the error of the Circuit Court in
directing a verdict for the defendant,
IlViejudgment is reversed and a new trial awarded.

TEAL v. WALKER.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued March 25th, 26th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Xlortgage-Pleading.
When a demurrer to a complaint for failure to state a cause of action is overruled, the defendant, by answering, does not lose his right to have the judgment on the verdict reviewed for error in overruling the demurrer.
A conveyance to a trustee, absolute on its face, but with an instrument of dofeasance showing that it is to secure payment of a debt due to a third
party, is a mortgage, and is subject to the rule that a mortgagee is not
entitled to the rents and profits until he acquires actual possession.
The rule that the mortgagee is not entitled to the rents and profits before
actual possession, applies even when the mortgagor covenants in the mortgage
to surrender the mortgaged property on default in payment of the debt, and
nevertheless refuses to deliver it after default, and drives the trustee to his
action to enforce the trust.
The statute of Oregon which provides that "a mortgage of real property shall
not be deemed a conveyance so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to
recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale according to law," establishes absolutely the rule that a mortgagee is not entitled
to the rents and profits before foreclosure.

This was an action at law brought by Walker, the defendant
in error, against Teal, the plaintiff in error. The record disclosed the following facts: On August 19th, 1874, Bernard
Goldsmith borrowed of James D. Walker the sum of $100,000,
and gave to the latter his note, dated Portland, Oregon,.

TEAL v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

August 19th, 1874, for the payment to Walker or his order, two
years after date, of the sum borrowed, with interest payable
monthly at the rate of one per cent. per month from date until
paid. Goldsmith, at the time the note was executed, was the
owner in fee of certain lands in: the State of Oregon and in the
Territory of Washington, and he and Joseph Teal were the
joint owners and tenants in common of certain other lands in
Oregon. On August 19th, 1874, Goldsmith conveyed to one
Henry Hewett, by four several deeds, absolute on their face,
the lands in Oregon and in Washington Territory of which he
was the sole owner, and on the same day he and Teal executed
and delivered, to the same grantee, three several deeds, absolute on their face, for the lands which they jointly owned as
tenants in common, one being for lands in Linn County,
another for contiguous lands in Polk and Benton Counties,
and the third for lands in Clackamas County, all in the
State of Oregon. These deeds were intended as a security
for the above-mentioned note, as appeared by a defeasance
in writing, executed on the same day as the note by Goldsmitb, Teal, Hewett and Walker. This instrument, after
reciting the execution of the note above mentioned, declared
that Hewett held the legal title to the lands conveyed to him
as aforesaid, in trust and for the uses therein described. It
then declared as follows: "Subject to the legal title of Hewett,
Teal, and Goldsmith, or Goldsmith alone shall (1) retain possession of the lands, and take and have, without account, the
issues and profits thereof-they paying all taxes and public
charges imposed thereon-until said note should become due
and remain unpaid thirty days; (2) that if such default is made
in the payment of said note, Goldsmith and Teal ' will and
shall, on demand, peacefully surrender to Hewett' the possession
of said property, who 'may and shall proceed and take possession I of the same, ' and on thirty days' notice in writing to
Teal and Goldsmith . . . requiring them to pay said debt,
. . . and on their failure so to pay, shall sell the same at
public auction on not more than thirty days' notice,' or sufficient thereof to pay the debt and charges."
The instrument further declared "that if the above recited

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

promissory note, and the interest thereon, and all the taxes,
charges, and assessments on said land be duly paid by said
Goldsmith, or for him, then the deeds aforesaid shall be void,
and said Hewett, or his representatives or successors in trust,
shall reconvey all said lands and every part thereof to said Teal
and Goldsmith, or said Goldsmith, or their representatives
entitled thereto."
On October 18th, 1876, there was due and unpaid upon the
note made by and delivered by Goldsmith to Walker the sum
of $96,750. To secure an extension of time of one year from
that date for the payment of the note, Goldsmith and Teal
agreed to give further security for its payment.
Thereupon Goldsmith conveyed by a deed, absolute on its
face, to Hewett certain lots in the city of Portland, of which
he was the owner, and Goldsmith and Teal by a like deed conveyed to Hewett certain other lots in Portland and certain
lands in Linn County, Oregon, of which they were joint owners
and tenants in common. On the same day, October 18th,
1876, Walker, Ilewett, Goldsmith, and Teal executed another
defeasance, in which, after reciting the conveyances by Goldsmith, and Goldsmith and Teal, above mentioned, declared that
Hewett held the legal title to lands so conveyed in trust, and
to the same uses and purposes for which he held the lands
mentioned in the defeasance of August 19th, 1874. By this
instrument Goldsmith and Teal undertook and agreed that
Goldsmith should pay promptly one4welfth of ten per cent.
per annum of the interest of the note every month, and should
pay the principal and the residue of the interest at the end of
the year. It was further stipulated between the parties that if
default was made in the payment of the monthly instalments
of interest, the principal should immediately become due, and
all the property, both that conveyed August 19th, 1874, and
that conveyed October 18th, 1876, should be sold for the payment thereof, as by law and the agreement of August 19th,
1874, was provided. The instrument of October 18th, 1876,
further provided as follows: "The agreement of August 19th,
1874, is not annulled, vacated, or set aside by the execution of
this agreement, excepting in so far as the same may conflict

TEAL v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

with this agreement; in all other respects the two instruments
are to be taken and construed together."
Interest was paid on the note made by Goldsmith to the
plaintiff up to January 21st, 1877, but none after that date.
In April, 1877, Goldsmith conveyed to Teal all his estate in
the lands which he had conveyed in trust to Hewett by the
deeds of August 19th, 1874, and October 18th, 1878, and put
Teal in possession thereof.
On July 6th, 1877, the interest on the note being in arrear
since January 21st preceding, 1Hewett demanded of Teal the
possession of all the property conveyed by said deeds. le refused to yield possession, and held the lots in the city of Portland until November 30th, 1878, and the farm lands until
some time in the same month and year.
Walker, by reason of Hewett's refusal to surrender possession
of the property conveyed in trust to Hewett, was compelled to
and did bring suit to enforce the sale of the property. All the
property was sold, either in accordance with the terms of the
defeasances above mentioned or by order of court, and the proceeds of the sale fell far short of paying the note, leaving
a balance due thereon of more than $50,000, which Goldsmith
had no means to pay.
This action was brought by Walker, the payee of the note,
against Teal, to recover the damages which he claimed he had
sustained by the refusal of Teal to surrender possession of the
property of which Goldsmith hind been the owner, or which lie
had owned jointly with Teal, and which had been conveyed to
Hewett in trust as aforesaid.
The complaint recited the
facts above stated, and averred that by reason of the refusal of
Teal to surrender possession of the property to Hewett, Walker
had been damaged in the sum of $16,000, for which sum the
complainants demanded judgment.
Teal filed a demurrer to the complaint, on the ground that
it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The demurrer was overruled, with leave to Teal to answer.
1he answered, and among other things, denied that Walker had
been damaged, by the refusal of Teal to deliver possession of
the property, in the sum of $16,000 or any other sum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The case, having been put at issue by the filing of a replication, was tried by a jury, which returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for $5,345.88, on which the court rendered judgment.
To reverse that judgment Teal prosecuted this writ of error.
. r. Johin ff.i

itclell for plaintiff in error.

Mr. A. If Garlandfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The writ of error is not taken to reverse the judgment of the
court upon the demurrer to the complaint, for that was not a
final judgment, but to reverse the judgment rendered upon the
verdict of the jury. The error, if it be an error, of overruling
the demurrer could have been reviewed on motion in arrest of
judgment, and is open to review upon this writ of error.
When the declaration fails to state a cause of action, and
clearly shows that upon the case as stated the plaintiff cannot
recover, and the demurrer of the defendant thereto is overruled, he may answer upon leave and go to trial, without losing
the right to have the judgment upon the verdict reviewed for
the error in overruling the demurrer. The error is not waived
by answer, nor is it cured by verdict. The question, therefore,
whether the complaint in this case states facts sufficient to constitute a case of action, is open for consideration.
The plaintiff in error insists that Goldsmith, having conveyed
to him all his estate in the lands described in the deed to
Hewett, the latter cannot recover of him damages, that is to
say, the rents and profits, because he refused to deliver to him
the premises. We are of opinion that this contention is well
founded, and that neither Goldsmith nor the plaintiff in error
was liable to account to Hewett or Walker for the rents and
profits of the premises.
A deed absolute upon its face, but intended as a security for
the payment of money, is a mortgage, even at law, if accompanied by a separate contemporaneous agreement in writing to
reconvey upon the payment of the debt. IYugent v. Riley, 1
Met. 117; Wilson v. Shoenberger, 31 Penn. St. 295; Dow v.

TEAL v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

CMamberlain, 5 McLean, 281; Bayley v. BaRley, 5 Gray, 505;
Lane v. Sliears, 1 Wend. 433; I'riedley v. t1amilton, 17 S. &
iR. 70; Skaw v. Erskine, 43 Me. 371.
It is clear, upon these authorities, that the three deeds executed by Goldsmith and Teal jointly, and the several deeds
executed by Goldsmith alone, to Hewett on August 19th, 1874,
and the defeasance executed on that day by Hewett and Walker,
are to be construed together, and so construed they constitute
a mortgage given to secure a debt. The lands owned by Goldsmith were conveyed by several deeds, evidently for convenience in registration, as the lands lay in several counties of
Oregon and some of them in the Territory of Washington.
The lands owned by Goldsmith and Teal jointly, also lay in
several counties, and were conveyed by separate deeds for the
same reason. The execution of all the deeds, and the execution of the defeasance which applied to all the deeds, occurred
on the same day, and was clearly one transaction, the object of
which rfas to secure the note for $100,000 made and delivered by
Goldsmith to Walker. The same remarks apply to the second
set of deeds executed by Goldsmith, and Goldsmith and Teal, on
October 18th, 1876, and the defeasance executed by Ilewett and
Walker on the same day. In fact, all the deeds and the two
defeasanees might, without violence, be regarded in equity as
two mortgages executed at different times with one and the
same defeasanee; for the defeasance last executed provides that
it shall not have the effect to annul, vacate, or set aside the first
except in so far as the two conflict; in all other respects the
two were to be taken and construed together. We are, therefore, to apply the same rules to the questions arising in this case
as if we had to deal with mortgages executed in the ordinary
form.
The decision of the question raised by the demurrer to the
complaint is not affected by the stipulation contained in the defeasance of August 19th, 1874, that Goldsmith and Teal should,
on default made in the payment of the principal of Goldsmith's
note, and on the demand of Hewett, surrender the mortgaged
premises to him. If this was a valid and binding undertaking,
it did not change the rights of the parties. Without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

such stipulation, Ilewett, unless it was otherwise provided by
statute, was entitled, at least on default in the payment of the
note of Goldsmith, to the possession of the mortgaged preniises. Jieech v. flall, 1 Doug. 21; Rockwell v. Bradley, 2
Conn. 1; Smith v. Jolns, 3 Gray, 517; Jackson v. Dubois, 4
Johns. 216; Furbus/ v. Goodwin, 29 N. H. 321; leward v.
Iboughton, 64 Me. 445 ; Den ex dem. Hart v. Stockton, 7 Halst.
322; _ElYy v. M'Gaire, 2 Ohio, 223. Vol. 1 and 2, 2d Ed. 372.
The rights of the parties are, therefore, the same as if the defeasance contained no contract for the delivery of the possession.
We believe that the rule is without exception that the mortgagee is not entitled to demand of the owner of the equity of
redemption the rents and profits of the mortgaged premises
until he takes actual possession. In the case of Jfoss v. Gallimore, 1 Doug. 279, Lord Mansfield held that a mortgagee,
after giving notice of his mortgage to a tenant in possession
holding under a lease older than the mortgage, is entitled to
the rent in arrear at the time of the notice, as well as to that
which accrues afterwards. This ruling has been justified on
the ground that the mortgagor, having conveyed his estate to
the mortgagee, the tenants of the former became the tenants of
the latter, which enabled him, by giving notice to them of his
mortgage, to place himself to every intent in the same situation
towards them as the mortgagor previously occupied. Jawson
v. Eike, 7 Ad. & El. 451; Burrowes v. Gradin, 1 Dowl. &
Lowndes, 213.
Where, however, the lease is subsequent to the mortgage, the
rule is well settled in this country, that, as no reversion vests
in the mortgagee, and no privity of estate or contract is created
between him and the lessee, he cannot proceed, either by distress or action, for the recovery of the rent. Mayo v. S/Miattuc/,
14 Pick. 533; Wats v. GQffn, 11 Johns. 495 ; JcKirc/er v.
Hawley, 16 Id. 289; Sanderson v. Price, 1 Zabr. 637; Price
v. Smitl/, I Green's Ch. (N. J.) 516.
The case of ilfoss v. Gallimore has never been held to apply
to a mortgagor or the vendee of his equity of redemption.
Lord Mansfield himself, in the case of Chinnery v. Blackman,

TEAL v.WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

3 Doug. 391, held that until the mortgagee takes possession the
mortgagor is owner to all the world, and is entitled to all the
profits made.
The rule on this subject is thus stated in Bacon's Abridgement, Title Mortgage C: "Although the mortgagee may
assume possession by ejectment at his pleasure, and, according
to the case of J/ross v. Gallimore, Doug. 279, may give notice
to the tenants to pay him the rent due at the time of the
notice, yet, if he suffers the mortgagor to remain in possession
or in receipt of the rents, it is a privilege belonging to his
estate that he cannot be called upon to account for the rents
and profits to the mortgagee, even although the security be insufficient."
So, in Higgins v. York Buildings Coma)ny, 2 Atk. 107, it
was said by Lord Ilardwicke: "In case of a mortgagee, where
a mortgagor is left in possession, upon a bill brought by the
mortgagee for an account in this court, lie never can have a
decree for an account of rents and profits from the mortgagor
for any of the years back during the possession of the mortgagor," and the same judge said in the case of ilfead v. Lord
Orrery, 3 Atk. 244:: "As to the mortgagor, I do not know of
any instance where he keeps in possession that he is liable to
account for the rents and profits to the mortgagee, for the
mortgagee ought to take the legal remedies to get into possession."
In Wilson, ex parle, 2 Ves. & B. 252, Lord Eldon said:
"Admitting the decision in f-oss v. Gallimore to be sound
law, I have been often surprised by the statement that a mortgagor was receiving the rents for the mortgagee. .
In the
instance of a bill filed to put a term out of the way, which may
be represented as in the nature of an equitable ejectment, the
court will, in some cases, give an account of the past rents.
There is not an instance that a mortgagee has per direclum
called upon the mortgagor to account for the rents. The consequence is, that the mortgagor does not receive the rents for
the mortgagee." See, also, Coleman v. Duke qf S1. Albans, 3
Ves. Jr. 25; Gresley v. Adderly, 1 Swanst. 573.
The American cases sustain the rule that so long as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgagor is allowed to remain in possession, lie is entitled to
receive and apply to his own use the income and profits of the
mortgaged estate; and, although the mortgagee may have the
right to take possession upon condition broken, if lie does not
exercise the right, lie cannot claim the rents; if he wishes to
receive the rents, he must take means to obtain the possession.
lVilder v. _laougion, 1 Pick. 87; Boston Bank v. PTeed, 8
Pick. 459; Noyes v. Rich, 52 Ale. 115.
In hfughe8 v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 500, it was held that a
mortgagor was not accountable to the mortgagee for the rents
and profits received by him during his possession, even after
default, and even though the land, when sold, should be insufficient to pay the debt, and that the purchaser of the equity
redemption was not accountable for any part of the debt beyond the amount for which the land was sold.
In the case of Gibnan v. linois & ifissipssjpi Telegrap
Coinpany, 91 U. S. 603, it was declared by this court that
where a railroad company executed a mortgage to trustees on
its property and franchises, "together with the tolls, rents,
and profits to be had, gained, or levied thereupon," to secure
the payment of bonds issued by it, the trustees, in behalf of
the creditors, were not entitled to the tolls and profits of the
road, even after condition broken, and the filing of a bill to
foreclose the mortgage, they not having taken possession or
had a receiver appointed. The court said, in delivering judgment in this case: "A mortgagor of real estate is not liable
for rent while in possession. Ie contracts to pay interest not
rent." So in Ifountze v. Omaha holel Conpany, 107 U. S.
378, it was said by the court, speaking of the rights of a mortgagee: "But in the case of a mortgage, the land is in the
nature of a pledge: it is only the land itself, the specific thing,
which is pledged. The rents and profits are not pledged; they
belong to the tenant in possession, whether the mortgagor or
third person claims under him.
The plaintiff in this case
was not entitled to the possession, nor the rents and profits."
See also flutehin8 v. King, 1 Wall. 53, 57-58.
Chancellor Kent states the modern doctrine in the following
language: "The mortgagor has a right to lease, sell and in

TEAL v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

every respect to deal with the mortgaged premises as owner so
long as he is permitted to remain in possession, and so long as
it is understood and held that every person taking under him,
takes subject to all the rights of the mortgagee, unimpaired and
unaffected. Nor is lie liable for rents, and the mortgagee must
recover the possession by regular entry by suit before he can
treat the mortgagor, or the person holding under him, as a
trespasser." 4 Kent Coin. 157. See also Aimerican Bridge
Condpany v. l] eidelbach, 94 U. S. 798; Clairke v. CurNi8, 1
Grattan, 289; Bank of Ogdensburg v. Arnold, 5 Paige Ch.
38; Ilunter v. flays, 7 Biss. 362; Seuter v. La Crosse ]lailway,
Woolworth C. C. 80, 85; Tfoster v. _od5e8, 10 'Bank. Reg. 523.
The authorities cited show that, as the defendant in error took
no effectual steps to gain possession of the mortgaged premises,
he is not entitled to the rents and profits while they were occupied by the owner of the equity of redemption.
The case against the right of the defendant in error to recover in this case the rents and profits received by the owner
of the equity of redemption is strengthened by section 323,
chapter 4, title 1, General Laws of Oregon, 1843-1872, which
declares that "a mortgage of real property shall not be deemed
a conveyance so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to rocover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and
sale according to law."
This provision of the statute cuts up by the roots the doctrine
of JfXoss v. Gallimore, vbi 8pra,and gives effect to the view of
the American courts of equity that a mortgage is a mere
security for a debt, and establishes absolutely the rule that the
mortgagee is not entitled to the rents and profits until he gets
possession under a decree of foreclosure. For if a mortgage is
not a conveyance, and the mortgagee is not entitled to possession, his claim to the rents is without support. This is recognized by the Supreme Court of Oregon as the effect of a
mortgage inthat State. In Besser v. Ilawthorn, 3 Oregon, 129
at 133, it was declared: " Our system has so changed this class
of contracts that the mortgagor retains the right of possession
and the legal title." See, also, Anderson v. Baxter, 4 Oregon,
105; Roberts v. Suterlin, Id. 219.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of the defendant in error cannot be aided by the
stipulation in the defeasance of August 19th; 1874, exacted by
the mortgagee, that Goldsmith and Teal would, upon default
in the payment of the note secured by the mortgage, deliver to
Iewett, the trustee, the possession of the mortgaged premises.
That contract was contrary to the public policy of the State of
Oregon, as expressed in the statute just cited, and was not binding on the mortgagor or his vendee, and, although not
expressly prohibited by law, yet, like all contracts opposed to
the public policy of the State, it cannot be enforced. Riailroad
Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Bank of ]Kentucky v.
Adams Express Company, 93 T. S. 174; ilarshall v. Jal/imore & Ohio Riailroad Company, 16 How. 314; iILfeguire v.
Corwine, 101 U. S. 108.
In any view of the case, we are of opinion that the defendant
in error was not entitled to receive the rents sued for in this
action. As this conclusion takes away the foundation of the
suit, it is unnecessary to notice other assignments of error.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

B6RS v. PRESTON.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW

FOR THE

YORK.

Argued January 4th, 1884.-Decided April 7th, 1884.

Consul-Constitutional Law

Evidence.

In cases coming from the Circuit Courts, this court will determine from its
own inspection of the record, whether they are of the class cxcludcd by
statute from the cognizance of those courts; this, although the question of
jurisdiction is not raised by the parties.
The constitutional grant of original jurisdiction to this court of all cases affectIng consuls, does not prevent Congress from conferring original jurisdiction,
in such cases, also, upon the subordinate courts of the Union.
Th2 jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States of suits by citizens

