OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

the proceeds of that sale, and that she was entitled to have the
conveyance to her from Mrs. Maxwell treated as security for
that money. Such being the case, the creditors have no claim
upon the bonds and notes superior in equity to that of the
Maxwell estate, nor upon the Lincoln Avenue property superior
to that of the wife.
Decree afirmed.

GARRETSON v. CLARK & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 15th, 1881.-Decided March 24th, 1884.

Patent.
When a patent is for an improvement of an existing machine or contrivance,
the patentee in a suit for damages for infringement must either show by
reliable, tangible proof that the value of the machine or contrivance as a
whole is due to the use of his patented invention, or he must separate and
apportion, by proof of the same character, the part of the defendant's profits
which are derivable from the use of it, in order to establish a claim for more
than nominal damages.

This was a suit in equity for infringement of a patent for an
improved mop-head. The sole question raised was whether the
evidence of damages warranted a judgment for more than
nominal damages.
_Jfr. James A. Allen for appellant.
ir.

Villiam F. Coggswell for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the court below sustained the plaintiff's patents,
adjudged that the defendants were infringers, and directed a
reference to a master, to ascertain and report the profits and
gains made by the defendants. The master reported that no
proof was presented to him that they had made any profit, or
MR. JUSTICi

FIELD

GARRETSON v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiffs had suffered any damages. The court sustained the report, and the decree allowed the plaintiffs only
nominal damages. From this decree the appeal is taken. Garrelson v. Clark, 15 Blatchford, 70.
The patent was for an improvement in the construction of
mop-heads, which may be described with sufficient accuracy
as an improvement in the method of moving and securing in
place the movable jaw or clamp of a mop-head. With the exception of this mode of clamping, mop-heads like the plaintiff's
had been in use time out of mind. Before the master, the
plaintiff proved the cost of his mop-heads, and the price at
which they were sold, and claimed the right to recover the
difference as his damages. This rule was rejected; and, no
other evidence of damages being offered, the master reported
as stated.
When a patent is for an improvement, and not for an entirely
new machine or contrivance, the patentee must show in what
particulars his improvement has added to the usefulness of the
machine or contrivance. le must separate its results distinctly
from those of the other parts, so that the benefits derived from
it may be distinctly seen and appreciated. The rule on this
head is aptly stated by Mr. Justice B3latchford in the court below: "The patentee," he says, "must in every case give evidence
tending to separate or apportion the defendant's profits and the
patentee's damages between the patented feature and the unpatented features, and such evidence must be reliable and
tangible, and not conjectural or speculative; or he must show,
by equally reliable and satisfactory evidence, that the profits
and damages are to be calculated on the whole machine, for
the reason that the entire value of the whole machine, as a
marketable article, is properly and legally attributable to the
patented feature."
The plaintiff complied with neither part of this rule. Ile
produced no evidence to apportion the profits or damages between the improvement constituting the patented feature and
the other features of the mop. His evidence went only to-show
the cost of the whole mop, and the price at which it was sold.
And of course it could not be pretended that the entire value

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

of the mop-head was attributable to the feature patented. So
the whole case ended, the rule was not followed, and the decree is therefore
Afflnmed.

BLACK, Administrator v. THORNE & Another.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

THE SOUTHERN

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

DISTRICT OF NEW

STATES

FOR

YORK.

Argued January 24th, 1884.-Dcidcd March 24th, 1884.

Damages-Patent.
Damages must be nominal in an action where the infringement of a patent
was established, and it appeared that other methods in common use produced the same results with equal faoility and cost, and there was no proof
of the exaction of a license fee for the use of the invention, and its general
payment.

This was a suit on the equity side of the court for the infringement of two patents, issued to the plaintiffs' intestate,
one for an alleged "new and useful improvement for burning
tan bark, bagasse, sawdust, and other kinds of fuel, in a wet
state, for the purpose of creating heat to generate steam, or to
be employed in heating or drying operations;" and the other
for a "new and useful improvement in furnaces, in using as
fuel bagasse and other carbonaceous substances, too wet to be
conveniently burned in the usual way," with a prayer that the
defendants may be decreed to account for and pay to the
plaintiffs the gains and profits derived from making and using
furnaces containing the inventions and improvements of the
deceased; and be enjoined from further infringement.
The defendants contested the validity of the patents, but the
court sustained them, and held that the defendants had infringed them by the use of furnaces containing the improvements patented in burning wet tan to generate heat employed
in the tanning of hides. It therefore decreed that the plaintiffs
recover the profits and gains which the defendants had made
from this use of the improvements, and ordered a reference to

