ANDERSON v. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSE CO.

479

Statement of Facts.

department we are at loss to determine. The certificate of the
proper auditor is attached and his certificate attested by the
Secretary of the Treasury under the seal of the department.
The form of the certificates and the mode of affixing the seal
correspond exactly with what appears in Smith v. United
States, 5 Pet. 292, where it was held, more than half a century
ago, that the seal affixed in this way was sufficient for the purposes of evidence under a statute, of which see. 886 is a reenactment. The transcript is certified by the auditor, and
authenticated under the seal of the Treasury Department
affixed by the Secretary, its lawful custodian.
Tle judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, with instructions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

ANDERSON, Receiver, v. PHILADELPHIA WAREhtOUSE COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 3d, 4th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

National Banks.
A pledgee of shares of stock in a national bank who in good faith and with no
fraudulent intent takes the security for his benefit in the name of an irresponsible trustee for the avowed purpose of avoiding individual liability as
a shareholder, and who exercises none of the powers or rights of a stockholder, incurs no liability as such to creditors of the bank in case of its
failure.

This suit was brought by the receiver of the First National
Bank of Allentown, an insolvent national bank, to recover an assessmnent made by the Comptroller of the Currency on the shareholders to pay debts, and the only question presented for determination is whether, upon the facts the Philadelphia Warehouse
Company was in law a shareholder of the bank at the time of
its failure, and as such liable to creditors. The facts, as shown
by the undisputed testimony, or found by the jury, are these:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

From the 17th of April, 1864, until December 27th, 1871,
William Kern was the registered holder of 490 shares of the
stock of the bank. Kern was one of the partners in the banking and business firm of W. I. Blumer & Co., composed of
himself, William Hf. Blumer, and Jesse Line. Blumer was the
president of the bank, and the other two partners in the firm
directors. A son of the president was cashier and also a director.
In the latter part of the year 1871 Blumer & Co., through
William II. Blumer, arranged with the Philadelphia Warehouse Company in Philadelphia for a loan or banker's credit,
to be secured by a deposit of collaterals. The account was
opened and the first drafts paid upon a deposit of gas stocks as
security. On the 27th of December, 1871, Kern transferred
450 of the shares of the stock standing in his name on the
books of the bank, and had a new certificate issued in the
name of T. Charlton Henry, president. This certificate was
receipted to the bank by Blumer, its president, and by him
either taken or sent to the Warehouse Company as further
security for the credit extended to Blumer & Co. The certificate came into the hands of Henry, the president of the
company, on the 2Sth of December, and soon after another
draft of Blumer & Co. for $10,000 was paid. On or before
the second of January the fact of the transfer of the stock to
the name of Henry, president, was brought to the attention of
some of the directors and members of the executive committee
of the Warehouse Company. At once it was deemed inadvisable to have the stock stand in the name of the president,
and the certificate was, on the 3d of January, transferred,
under the seal of the company and the signatures of its president and secretary, to Dennis McCloskey, an irresponsible person, and a porter in its employ. The certificate with the transfer upon it was sent the same day by the secretary of the
company to Blumer & Co., with a request that the stock might
be transferred and a new certificate issued in the name of
M Closkey and returned. To this request Blumer replied as
follows:

ANDERSON v. PIHILADELPIIA WAREHOUSE CO.

481

Statement of Facts.
"Wm. H. Blumer, President.
J. A. Blumer, Cashier.
"The First National Bank of Allentown.
" ALLrNTOWN, PENN'A, Jam'y 4th, 1872.
"T. CHARLTON HENiRY, ESQ., President.
"'To-day I received one remittance from your L. S. Maderia, to
wit, certificate of stock for four hundred and fifty shares of the
capital stock of the First National Bank of Allentown, with a
request to assign the same and make a new certificate to Dennis
McCloskey. I do not understand the nature of this transaction,
and would respectfully ask you to give me explanation why the
stock is to be transferred to a third party ; and if it would be
better to place other securities with you, such as gas stock, in
cases where you pledge them with outsiders.
"If my remarks seem improper, pardon me, for I only ask
questions to gain wisdom.
Very respectfully,
"1Wm. H. BLUME ,
"for W.

I.

BLUMER & Co."

To this letter the company sent the following answer:

"\Wm . IU.BLUMEiz, EsQ., Pres't.

"January 6th, 1872.

"Dear Sir : I am in receipt in your favor of the 4th inst., and
in reply would say that I am not surprised at your inquiry, since
you were requested to have the certificate made out in my name.
We have no need to borrow any money, nor do we expect or intend to put this stock out of our hands, but the failure of one or
two national banks lately led our directors to consider the clause
in the national bank act which renders all stockholders liable, in
case of failure, to pay up to the receiver the full amount of the
stock in their name ; and on this account we determine to have
the certificates of national bank stock put in the name of Dennis
McCloskey, who is the boy in our office, taking his power of attorney to transfer the same. Hoping this explanation will prove
satisfactory,
I am yours respectfully,
"T. C. HENRY, Pres't."

Upon the receipt of this letter the stock was transferred in
due form, January 10th, to McCloskey on the books of the
bank, and a new certificate issued in his name. The certificate
was receipted for MeCloskey by W. H. Blumer and forwarded
VOL. cxi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts

to the Warehouse Company as an inclosure in the following
letter:
" Office of the Allentown Gas Company.
J. M. Line, Treasurer.
"W. H. Blumer, President.
"ALLENTOWN, PA., January 10th, 1872.
"T. C. HENIY, ESQ.
"Dear Sir : Inclosed I hand you certificate of 450 shares First
National Bank of Allentown. It is never out of the way if you
are cautious, but in this case I presume there would have been no
danger. I would not sell the gas stock for $50,000.
W. H. BLUmER."
" Truly,
McCloskey never had possession of the certificate, and, at the
request of the Warehouse Company, executed in blank, as of
the date of January 3d, an irrevocable power of attorney for
the sale and transfer of the stock. He died in 1875. After his
death the stock was transferred on the books of the bank, at
the request of the company, to Francis Ferris, another employ6 and also an irresponsible person. This certificate was
delivered to the company, and Ferris indorsed thereon an irrevocable power of attorney for its transfer. The stock stood in
his name at the time of the failure of the bank in 1878, the
company holding the certificate.
Dividends were paid regularly on this stock to Kern or
B turner & Co. from the time of the original transfer up to and
including December, 1876. The Warehouse Company never
received any dividends and never acted as a shareholder.
Blumer & Co. failed in 1877, largely indebted to the Warehouse Company, which still held as security the stock standing
in the name of Ferris. The failure of Blumer & Co. crippled
the bank so that it never afterwards paid a dividend, and on
the 15th of April, 1878, it was put into insolvency by the
Comptroller of the Currency and a receiver appointed. On
the 10th of May following the Comptroller assessed the shareholders twenty per cent. of the par value of their shares to pay
the debts, and this suit was brought to collect that assessment
on the 450 shares in question. The jury, under instructions
applicable to the foregoing state of facts, rendered a verdict

ANDERSON v. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSE CO. 483
Opinion of the Court.

for the defendant, and to reverse a judgment on that verdict
this writ of error was taken.
iifr. P. K. Erdman, for plaintiff in error.
_JXr. R. C. )Umhurtrie, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is well settled that one who allows himself to appear on
the books of a national bank as an owner of its stock is liable
to creditors as a shareholder, whether he be the absolute
owner or a pledgee only, and that, if a registered owner, acting
in bad faith, transfers his stock in a failing bank to an irresponsible person, for the purpose of escaping liability, or if his
transfer is colorable only, the transaction is void as to creditors.
Valional Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628; Bowden v. Johnson, 107
U. S. 251. It is, also, undoubtedly true, that the beneficial
owner of stock registered in the name of an irresponsible person may, under some circumstances, be liable to creditors as
the real shareholder, but it has never, to our knowledge, been
held that a mere pledgee of stock is chargeable where he is not
registered as owner.
There is in this case no evidence of actual fraud or bad faith.
The Warehouse Company never was the owner of the stock in
question, and never held itself out as such. The transfer of
Kern and Blumer & Co., was only by way of pledge, and the
company was bound to return the stock whenever the debt, for
which it was held, should be paid. From the verdict of the
jury, under the instructions of the court, it must also be accepted as a fact, that the company never consented to a transfer
of the stock to its name on the books, or to that of its president,
and it is undisputed that for seven years before the failure of
the bank, and at least five years before its embarrassments were
known to the company or the public, the stock had been standing, with the assent of Kern, Blamer & Co. and the officers of
the bank, in the name of McCloskey or Ferris. During all that
time, neither the registered holders nor the Warehouse Company claimed dividends or in any way acted as shareholders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

On the contrary, either Kern or Blmner & Co. took the dividends as they were paid, and to all intents and purposes controlled the stock. There was no concealment on the part of
the Warehouse Company, and no effort to deceive. It had
possession of the certificates which represented the stock, with
full power to control them for all the purposes of its security,
but there was never a time, from the date of the original transfer by Kern on the books, until the failure of the bank, that it
was or pretended to be anything else than a mere pledgee.
Those who examined the list of shareholders would have found
the name of MeCloskey or of Ferris as the registered holder of
four hundred and fifty shares. There was nothing on the
books of the bank to connect them, or either of them, with the
Warehouse Company, and, therefore, no credit could have been
given on account of the apparent liability of the company as a
shareholder. If inquiries had been made and all the facts
ascertained, it would have been found that either Kern or
nBlumer
& Co. were always the real owners of the stock, and
that it had been placed in the name of the persons who appeared on the registry, not to shield any owner from liability,
but to protect the title of the company as pledgee. Blumer &
Co. and the bank were fully advised who MeCloskey was, and
of his probable responsibility, when they allowed the transfer
to be made to him, and they undoubtedly knew who Ferris was
when the stock was put in his name after McCloskey's death.
The avowed purpose of both transfers was to give the company
the control of the stock for the purposes of its security, without
making it liable as a registered shareholder. To our minds
there was neither fraud nor illegality in this. The company
perfected its security as pledgee, without making itself liable
as an apparent owner. Kern or Blumer & Co. still remained
the owners of the stock, though registered in the name of
others, and pledged as collateral security for their debt. They
consented to the transfer, not to escape liability as shareholders,
but to save the company from a liability it was unwilling to
assume, and at the same time to perfect the security it required
for the credit to be given. As between Blumer & Co. and the
Warehouse Company, Blumer & Co. or Kern were the owners

ANDERSON v. PHILADELPHIA WAREHOUSE CO. 485
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Matthews, JJ.

of the stock and the company the pledgee. As between the
company and the bank, or its creditors, the company was a
pledgee of the stock and liable only as such. The creditors
were put in no worse position by the transfers that were made
than they would have been if the stock had remained in the
name of Kern or IBlumer & Co. who were always the real
owners.
To our minds the fact that the stock stood registered in the
name of Henry, President, from December 27th to January 10th,
is, under the circumstances of this case, of no importance. The
Warehouse Company promptly declined to allow itself to stand
as a registered shareholder, because it was unwilling to incur the
liability such a registry would impose. It asked that the transfer might be made to McCloskey. To this the owners of the
stock and the bank assented, and from that time the case stood
precisely as it would if the transfer bad originally been made
to MeCloskey instead of Henry, President, or if Ihenry had retransferred to Kern or Blumer & Co., and they had at the
request of the company made another transfer to MeCloskey.
The security of the Warehouse Company was perfected without
imposing on the comp~ny a shareholder's liability. All this
was done in good faith, when the bank was in good credit and
paying large dividends, and years before its failure or even its
embarrassment. So far as the company was concerned, the
transfer was not made to escape an impending calamity, but to
avoid incurring a liability it was unwilling to assume, and which
it was at perfect liberty to shun.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
and it is consequently
Af~frmcd.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom. MR. JUSTICE MATHEWs
concurred, dissenting.
I do not concur in this judgment.
I think if in any case between private persons, one of them
had placed property in the hands of minors, servants, or other
irresponsible persons, for the purpose of escaping the responsibility attaching to the ownership of such property, while

OCTOBER TE'RA,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

securing all the advantages of such ownership, it would be held
to be a transaction which could not be supported on any legal
or equitable principle.
It does not remove this case from the control of that principle,
that the parties to be injured are the unknown creditors of the
bank, who are, by this means, deprived of the right which they
have to resort to a responsible shareholder for the contribution
which the law gives for their benefit.
If not an actual fraud, it is a fraud upon the banking law,
and was so intended to be by both the original holders of the
bank shares, and the officers of the Warehouse Company, by
which the latter could control the shares without the responsibility which the law attaches to the owner.
It is an easy devise to make the right which the law gives
to creditors of a failing bank ineffectual, and to evade it in all
cases.
JUSTICE MATTHEWS agrees with me in this dissent.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. KIRK.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.
Submitted April 3d, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Amendment-Error-Practice.
Under authority conferred upon the court by ยง 1005 Rev. Stat., a writ of error
bearing a wrong tcste, signatures of justice and of clerk, and seal of court,
may be amended as to teste and signature of justice by order of court, and
as to seal and signature of clerk by directing them to be affixed.

Motion to dismiss, with which was united motion to affirm.
_Mr. A. I1 Garlandand ir.

IF. Iallett Pillipsfor motion.

AU. John F. Dillon, Mr. John C. Brown, _Xr. Wager
Swayne, and .ATr. K D. Davidge opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error moves to dismiss this case for want
of a sufficient writ of error, and with this motion is united one

