ARMOUR v. HAHN.
Statement of Facts.

It results, from these considerations, that, if the claim of INo.
4,321 is to be construed so broadly as to cover the defendants'
article, it is wider in its scope than the original actual invention of Graebe and Liebermann, and wider than anything indicated in the specification of the original patent; and that, if it
is to be construed so as to cover only the product which the
process described in it will produce, it is not shown that the
defendants' article is that product or can be practically produced by that process. In either view,
Dihe decree o$ the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case

be reemanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the bill
of complaint.

ARMOUR v. IHAIIN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Argued April 3d, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

.Masterand Servant.
The obligation of a master to provide reasonably safe places and structures for
his servants to work upon does not oblige him to -keep a building, which
they are employed in erecting, in a safe condition at every moment of their
work, so far as its safety depends on the due performance of that work by
them and their fellow servants.
Carpenters, under charge of a foreman, and bricklayers, all employed by the
owner through his superintendent, were engaged in the erection of a building, with a cornice supported by sticks of timber passing through the wall
(which was thirteen inches thick) and projecting sixteen inches, and to be
bricked up at the sides and ultimately over the top of the timbers. When
the wall had been bricked up on a level with, but not yet over, the timbers,
the foreman of the carpenters directed two of them to take a joist for the
edge of the cornice, and to push it out to the ends of the projecting timbers. In so arranging the joist, a carpenter stepped on the projecting part
of one of the timbers, which tipped over, whereby he fell and was hurt.
Ield, That the owner of the building was not liable to him for the injury.

This is an action brought by Hahn against Armour and
others (of whom Armour alone' was served with process), to
recover damages for injuries suffered by the plaintiff while

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

employed as a carpenter in the erection of a building for the
defendants.
The petition alleged that the plaintiff was and long had been
in the defendant's employ as a carpenter, and while at work,
together with others, in building an addition to a large packinghouse owned and occupied by the defendants, was directed by
them and their agents to take a joist and place it on the outer
ends of sticks of timber inserted in and projecting from the wall
of the new building; that while arranging and adjusting the
joist, in accordance with the instructions of the defendants and
their agents, it became necessary for him to step out upon one
of the projecting timbers; that, immediately upon placing one
foot upon the projecting timber, and while stooping over to
arrange the joist, and without any notice, warning, or reason
to believe that the projecting timber was insecure or unsafe,
and without any fault or neglect on his part, the timber gave
way, precipitating him from the top of the wall thirty-four feet
to the platform beneath; that the defendants, well knowing
the danger, negligently and wrongfully directed him to go out
upon the projecting timber to arrange the joist, without advising him of the danger; and that by reason of the negligence
of the defendants, in not having secured the projecting timber
to the wall, and in not notifying him of its dangerous condition, he suffered great bodily injuries.
The testimony introduced for the plaintiff at the trial was in
substance as follows: The plaintiff was engaged with twelve
or thirteen other carpenters, all paid by the day, in the erection
of the new building. Bricklayers and other laborers were also
at work upon it. The plaintiff was employed and paid by one
Alcutt, the superintendent of the packing-house. One Fitzgerald was foreman of the carpenters, but not of the other
workmen. The plaintiff, who had been working on one end
of the roof, went to the other end, and was there set to work
by the foreman upon the cornice. The cornice was made by
inserting in the brick wall (which was thirteen inches thick) at
intervals of eight or nine feet and at right angles with it, sticks
of timber projecting about sixteen inches from the wall; and
by placing on the outer ends of those timbers, and parallel to

ARMOUR v. HAHN.
Statement of Facts.

the wall, joists sixteen or eighteen feet long and two and a half
inches wide. The plaintiff and another of the carpenters were
directed by their foreman to take a joist and put it out in its
proper place on the projecting timbers. They took it and laid
it upon those timbers. The foreman told them to push the
joist out to the end of the timbers, but did not tell them to go
out. Each man pushed out his end of the joist. The plaintiff,
in order to reach over and place the joist, sat down with both
feet on one of the projecting timbers, one foot on the part
of it inside the wall, and the other foot on the part outside,
when the timber tipped over, and caused the plaintiff to fall
some thirty-four feet to the platform below, and to suffer the
injuries sued for. The wall had just been bricked up on each
side of this timber to a level with its upper surface, but no
bricks had been laid over it. The foreman stood eight or ten
feet further in; there was a space for the bricklayers to build
up the wall, and they were working upon it. The plaintiff
testified that he helped to put some of the sticks of timber in
the old wall, and spiked them to the girders; that he did not
know who put this stick of timber in the new wall; that it
appeared to be secure; that if it had been fastened he could
have stepped out upon it without danger; that if he had kept
both feet inside the wall, he could have pushed the joist out,
but could not have seen whether it was in the proper place;
that lie could see that the timber was not spiked, but could not
see whether it was fastened; that it could not be spiked then;
and that "the usual way of doing it was putting this timber
in, and leaving it that way temporarily, and afterwards building the wall up over it." There was also evidence of the extent
of the plaintiff's injuries.
At the close of the evidence for the plaintiff, a demurrer to
that evidence, upon the ground that it proved no cause of
action, was filed by the defendant, in accordance with the following provision of the statutes of Kansas:
"The party on whom rests the burthen of the issues must first
produce his evidence ; after he has closed his evidence, the adverse party may interpose and file a demurrer thereto, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ground that no cause of action or defence is proved.

If the court

shall sustain the demurrer, such judgment shall be rendered for

the party demurring, as the state of the pleadings, or the proof,
shall demand; if the demurrer be overruled, the adverse party
will then produce his evidence." Laws of Kansas of 1872, ch.
162, ยง 1, cl. 3.

The demurrer was argued and submitted to the court, and
overruled. The defendant excepted to the ruling. No further
evidence was introduced by either party at the trial. The case
was submitted, under instructions excepted to by the defendant, and which it is unnecessary to state, to the jury, who returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of $7,500. Judgment was rendered on the verdict, and the defendant sued out
this writ of error.
.r. T Brumbace (with whom was Xr. Wallace Pratt)for
plaintiff in error.
_Mr. Tlwmas P. Fenlon (with whom was Xr. Byron S]ierry)
for defendant in error.-I. A demurrer to evidence, in
Kansas, is equivalent to an instruction that there is no evidence
on which plaintiff can recover. This court has repeatedly said
it should not be given if there is any evidence to support an
action. Bank of Ifashington v. Triplett, 1 Pet. 25; Parks v.
Ross, 11 How. 362; Spring Company v. Edgar, 99 U. S. 645;
Pence v. -Langdon,99 U. S. 578; Moulor v. Insurance Co.,
101 U. S. 708.-I. A master when employing a servant is
bound to provide him with a safe working place and machinery.
Cooqnbs v. New Bedford Card Co., 102 Mass. 572; Cayzer v.
Taylor, 10 Gray, 274; Seaver v. Boston & .Maine Railroad
Co., 14 Gray, 466; Snow v. Ifousatonic Railroad Co., 8 Allen,
44:1; Gilman v. E1 astern Railroad Corporation, 10 Allen, 233.
-III. If the negligence of the master combines with the negligence of a fellow servant, and the two contribute to the injury,
the servant injured may recover damages of the master.
Crutc~fleld v. Richunond & Danville Railroad Co., 76 N. C.
320; Bootht v. Boston & Albany Railroad Co., 73 N. Y. 38;
Boyce v. Fitzpatrick, 80 Ind. 526; Grand Trunk Railway of

ARMOUR v. HAHN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Canada v. Cummings, 106 11. S. 700.-IV. It is the duty of
an employer, inviting employ6s to use his structure and machinery, to use proper care and diligence to make them fit for
use. Railroad Company v. Ifort, 17 Wall. 553; Sullivan v.
India Jfanufacturing Co., 113 Mass. 396 ; O'Connorv. Adams,
120 Mass. 427; Hobbitt v. Railway Co., 4 Exch. 253; ilfellors
v. Shaw, 1 3. & S. 437; -Lawlerv. Androscoggin Railroad,62
Me. 463; Flifeld v. Northern Railroad,42 N. H. 225; Ilard
v. Vermont & Canada Railroad,32 Vt. 473; Snow v. -housatonic Railroad,8 Allen, 441; Northcoate v. Bachelider, 111
Mass. 322; -add v. New Bedford Railroad, 119 Mass. 412;
Sword v. Edgar, 59 N. Y. 28; Blank v. N. Y. 0. Railroad
Co., 60 N. Y. 607; Patterson v. Pitsbarg & Cornellsville
Railroad, 76 Penn. St. 389; 3ad River, &c., Railroad v.
Barber, 5 Ohio St. 541; Chicago & N. JIF I. Co. v. Jackson,
55 Ill. 492; Chicago B. & Q. R. Co. v. Gregory, 58 Ill. 272;
Chicago & X. V. R. Co. v. Ward, 61 Ill. 131 ; Toledo, Peoria
& Warsaw Railroad v. Conroy, 61 Ill. 162; CUicago & Alton
Railroad v. Sullivan, 63 Ill. 293; Toledo Wabash & Western
Railroad v. Frederieks, 71 Ill. 294; Indianapolis, &c., Railroad v. Flanigan, 77 Ill. 365; Colambus & 1ndanapolis
Railroadv. Ar)old, 31 Ind. 175; ill uldowney v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 36 Iowa, 463; Brabbits v. Ckleago & N. T.
R. Co., 38 Wis. 289; Wedgwood v. Chicago &- . IF. R. Co.,
41 Wis. 478; LeClair v. St. Paul & Paflc Railroad,20 Minn.
9 ; Gibson v. Pacific Railroad,46 Mo. 163; ICeegan v. Kiavanaughi, 62 Mo. 230; Wh'lialen v. Centenary Church, 62 Mo. 326;
Mobile & Ohio Railroad v. Thomas, 42 Ala. 672; leGlynn
v. Brodie, 31. Cal. 376 ; _Malone v. tlanley,46 Cal. 409. When
a master employs a servant in a work of a dangerous character
he is bound to take all reasonable precaution for the safety of
the workman. It is not enough for him to employ competent
workmen to construct his apparatus. If an expert he must
inspect the work; and if not he must employ a competent
person to do it. Toledo Railroadv. Moore, 77 111. 217. Agents
who are charged with the duty of supplying safe machinery
are not, in the true sense of the rule relied on, to be regarded
as fellow servants of those engaged in operating. They are

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

charged with the master's duty to the servant.
burg Railroad Co., 110 Mass. 240.

Ford v. Fich-

MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
This court is of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in not
rendering judgment for the defendant on his demurrer to the
plaintiff's evidence.
There was no evidence tending to prove any negligence on
the part of the firm of which the defendant was a member, or
of their superintendent, or of the foreman of the gang of carpenters. The obligation of a master to provide reasonably safe
places and structures for his servants to work upon does not
impose upon him the duty, as towards them, of keeping a building, which they are employed in erecting, in a safe condition
at every moment of their work, so far as its safety depends
upon the due performance of that work by them and their
fellows. The plaintiff was not a minor, employed in work
which was strange to him, but was a man of full age, engaged
in ordinary work of his trade as a carpenter. The evidence
tended to show that he and one of his comrades were directed
by their foreman to push the joist out on the projecting sticks
of timber, not that he told them to go out themselves. The
projecting timber upon which the plaintiff placed his foot was
inserted in a wall which was in the course of being built, and
which at the time had been bricked up only so far as to be on
a level with the upper surface of the timber. The usual course,
as the plaintiff himself testified, was to put the timber in, and
leave it in that way temporarily, and afterwards build the wall
up over it. It is not pretended that the stick of timber was
in itself unsound or unsuitable for its purpose. If it was at the
time insecure, it was either by reason of the risks ordinarily
incident to the state of things in the unfinished condition of
the building; or else by reason of some negligence of one of
the carpenters or bricklayers, all of whom were employed and
paid by the same master, and were working in the course of
their employment at the same place and time, with an immediate common object, the erection of the building, and therefore,

TURNER & SEYMOUR CO. v. DOVER STAMP'G CO. 319
Opinion of the Court.

within the strictest limits of the rule of law upon the subject,
fellow servants, one of whom cannot maintain an action for
injuries caused by the negligence of another against their common master. 1hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; Randall
v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversed,
and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity
Judgment revered.
with this opinion.

TURNER & SEYMOUR MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. DOVER STAMPING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TIIE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT

OF CONNECTICUT.

Submitted March 31st, 1884.-Decided April 14th, 1884.

Patent.
When an inventor takes out a patent founded on a claim which does not include his whole invention, and rests for twelve years, and then surrenders
his patent and takes a reissue with a broader claim, under circumstances
which warrant the conclusion that the act is caused by successful competition of a rival, he will be held to have dedicated to the public so much of
his invention as was not included in the original claim. Miller v. Brass
Company, 104 U. S. 850, cited and followed.

This was a bill in equity brought by the appellees to enjoin
the appellants from infringing their rights as assignees of a
patent for an improvement in egg-beaters. The decree below
granted the injunction and determined the amount of profits.
From this decree the defendant below appealed. The invention and claims are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John,S. Beach and lr. John -

Beach for appellant.

2Wr. E Jerwin and Mr. T'. TV Clarke for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MArrHEws delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity filed by the appellees as assignees of

