OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

CHOUTEAU & Another v. GIBSON.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted March 10th, 1884.-Decided March 31st, 1884.

Jurisdiction.
In order to give this court jurisdiction in error of a State court it must appear
affirmatively on the face of the record, not only that the federal question
was raised and presented to the highest court of the State for decision, but
that it was decided, or that its decision was necessary to the judgment or
decree rendered in the case.

This was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Johi IV Noble and MIr. C. Gibson for appellee in support of the motion.
Xitr. T/omcas

. Gantt for Julia Maffitt, appellant, opposing.

Mr. S. T. Glover and Mrl. J R. Sliepley for Charles P.
Chouteau, appellant, opposing.
delivered the opinion of the court.
From the beginning it has been held that to give us jurisdiction in this class of cases it must appear affirmatively on the
face of the record, not only that a federal question was raised
and presented to the highest court of the State for decision, but
that it was decided, or that its decision was necessary to the
judgment or decree rendered in the case.
iTu'doc/kv. Jffemnp/8is,
20 Wall. 590, 636.
The present record shows that Chouteau and Maffit began
this suit against Gibson in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County,
Missouri, to obtain a conveyance of certain lands, which they
claimed that he held in trust for them. Among other defenees,
Gibson set up a judgment in his favor in a suit brought by him
against Choutcau and MKaffit to recover the possession of the
lands, in which, as he alleged, the identical matters presented
in this case were directly passed upon and adjudicated between the parties. It is conceded that the State Supreme
Court in deciding the case sustained this defence, and rendered
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

CIIOUTEAU v. GIBSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the decree now here for review in favor of Gibson on that
ground alone, without considering any of the other questions
involved. Olouleau v. Gibon, 76 Missouri, 38.
Such being the case, it is clear we have no jurisdiction. The
legal effect of the judgment set up in bar is a question of
general law as to which the decision of the State court is not
reviewable here. The federal questions, if any there were in
the case, lay behind this defence, and could not be reached
until it was out of the way. The question presented by the
defence was not 'whether a federal right had been properly denied by a former judgment, but whether the right had been
once judicially determined so as to become res judicatabetween
the parties. Whether an equitable title could be set up in bar
of the action at law brought by Gibson, the holder of the legal
title, to recover possession, is a question of State law upon
which the judgment of the State court is conclusive. The same
is true of the question whether the pleadings in the former
action were such as to present the equitable defence in proper.
form for final adjudication. The court below has decided that
the pleadings were sufficient; that the equitable defence could
be made, and that the judgment in that action in favor of
Gibson was, in its legal effect, a judgment that Chouteau and
Maffit had no title to the land in controversy. Consequently
that judgment was a bar to this action, and precluded the
court below as well as this court from reopening the original
litigation and considering again the questions that were put at
rest between the parties by the decision in their former suit.
It is apparent, therefore, that no federal question which there
may have been in the case was decided by the State court, and
that the decision of such a question was not necessary to the
final decree rendered. Without determining whether, if the
former judgment had not been a bar to the action, thmere were
questions in the case that might have given us jurisdiction, we
Bi8nuswed.
grant the motion to dismiss.

