CASES

ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
BALDWIN v. OTOE COUNTY.
IN

ERROR

TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOI

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted January 4th, 1884-Decided March 17th, 1884.

J-Trisdiction-LegislativeA uthority-lunicipalBonds-Municipal Corporat

tions-Nebraskac-Pactice-Sta
utes.

Bonds to the amount of $40,000 were issued by the county of Otoe, in the State,
(then Territory) of Nebraska, to the Council Bluffs and St. Joseph Railroad
Company, as a donation to that company to aid in the construction of a
railroad in Fremont County, Iowa, to secure to said Otoe County an eastern
railroad connection. Notwithstanding any defects or irregularities in the
voting upon or issuing said bonds, they were validated by § 8 of the act of
the legislature of the State of Nebraska, passed February 15th, 1869
(Laws of 1869, p. 92), entitled "An Act to enable counties, cities, and precints to borrow money on their bonds, or to issue bonds to aid in the construction or completion of works of internal improvement in this State, and
to legalize bonds already issued for such purpose," taken in connection with
another act of said legislature of the same date (Laws of 1869, p. 200).
The decision of this court in Railroad Company v. County of Oloe, 16 Wall.
667, cited and applied.
The legislature of a State, unless restrained by its organic law, has the right
to authorize a municipal corporation to issue bonds in aid of a railroad, and
to levy a tax to pay the bonds and the interest on them, with or without a
popular vote, and to cure, by a retrospective act, irregularities in the exercise of the power conferred.
VOL. CXI-1

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.
The first of said acts of February 15th, 1869, was rmt in violation of section
19 of article 2 of the Constitution of Nebraska, of 1867, which provided that
"1no bill shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title."
Where an action of law is tried by a Circuit Court, without a jury, and the
facts on which, on a writ of error, the plaintiff in error seeks to raise a
question of law, are not admitted in the pleadings, or specially found by
the court, and there is a general finding for the defendant in error on the
cause of action which involves such question of law, and there is no exception by the plaintiff in error to any ruling of the court in regard to such
question, this court can make no adjudication in regard to it.

On the 1st of April, 1882, John T. Baldwin brought a suit
at law, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of INebraska, against the county of Otoe, in the State of
Nebraska, to recover the amount due on sundry coupons cut
from bonds issued by that county, the coupons being payable,
some January 1st, and others July 1st, in each year, from and
including 1870 to and including 1881, and January 1st, 1882.
On the 11th of August, 1882, Baldwin brought another suit at
law, in the same court, against the same defendant, to recover
the amount due on sundry other coupons, cut from bonds issued
by that county, the coupons being payable, some January Ist,
andlothers July 1st, in each year, from and including 1878 to
and including 1882. The bonds were issued by the county, while
Nebraska was a Territory, to the Council Bluffs and St. Joseph
Railroad Company, the principal being payable January 1st,
1887, with interest from January 1st, 1867, at the rate of 10
per cent. pier annum, payable on July 1st and January 1st, in
each year. The amount of the principal of the bonds was
$40,000, they bore date November 12th, 1866, and were signed
by the chairman of the board of county commissioners, and
the treasurer, and attested by the county clerk, and bore
the seal of the county, and were payable to the company or its
assigns, and each bond was assigned by it, by an assignment
under its seal, to the bearer, indorsed on the bond, and dated
November 18th, 1869. Each bond contained the following
statement:
"This bond is one of a series of one hundred and sixty, of the
like tenor and date, one hundred of which are for one hundred

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Statement of Facts.
dollars, and sixty of which are each for five hundred dollars, in the
aggregate amounting to the sum of forty thousand dollars, executed and issued, or to be issued from time to time, as the wants
of said county shall require, to pay to the Council Bluffs and St.
Joseph Railroad Company, as an appropriation made by said
county to said railroad company, to aid in the construction of
the railroad of said company, to be located in Fremont County,
Iowa, through a point most convenient to Nebraska City. This
debt is authorized by a vote of the legal voters of said county of
Otoe, taken at an election held under and by virtue of an order of
the county commissioners of said county, on the 17th day of
March, 1866, in pursuance with the several acts of the legislature
of the Territory of Nebraska, in such cases made and provided,
and a resolution of the board of county commissioners of said
county granting such aid."

Nebraska City is in the county of Otoe, on the west bank
of the Missouri River. Fremont County, in Iowa, adjoins
Otoe County on the east, being separated from it only by the
Missouri River. Council Bluffs is in Iowa, on the east bank of
the Missouri River, above Fremont County, and 40 to .50
miles above Nebraska City. St. Joseph is in Missouri, on the
east bank of the Missouri River, below the other places
named.
On the 6th of January, 1860, the legislative assembly of
the Territory of Nebraska passed an act (Laws of 1859-60,.
6th Session, p. 112) entitled "An Act to authorize Otoe County
to subscribe and take stock in any railroad located or to be
located in Fremont County in the State of Iowa." This act
contained the follo ving provisions:
"That the Board of County Commissioners for Otoe County
may at any time, by an order of said board, cause an election to be
held for the purpose of ascertaining the will of the people of
Otoe County, as to the propriety of said county subscribing stock
for any amount not exceeding seventy-five thousand dollars, to
any railroad company for the purpose of constrneting any railroad
now, or hereafter, to be located in Fremont County and State of
Iowa. § 2. If a majority of the legal voters of said county shall
vote in favor of such proposition, then the board of county

OCTOBER !TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.
commissioners of Otoe County shall issue the bonds of said county
for whatever amount of stock it may have been decided upon by
such vote, to any such railroad company, which bonds shall not
bear any greater interest than ten per cent. per annum."
On the l1th of January, 1861, the legislative assembly of
the Territory passed an act (Laws of 1860-61, 7th Session, p.
146) entitled "An Act to define the powers and duties of county
commissioners and county clerk."
This act created in each
county a board of county commissioners, consisting of three
persons. It also provided as follows:
"§ 24. The said commissioners shall have power to submit to
the people of the county, at any regular or special election, the
question whether the county will borrow money to aid in the
construction of public buildings, the question whether the county
will aid or construct any road or bridge, or to submit to the
people of the county any question involving an extraordinary
outlay of money by the county ; and said commissioners may aid
any enterprise designed for the benefit of the county as aforesaid,
whenever a majority of the people thereof shall be in favor of the
proposition as provided in this section. § 25. When county warrants are at a depreciated value, the said commissioners may, in
like manner, submit the question whether a tax of a higher rate
than that provided by law shall be levied, and in all eases when
an additional tax is laid in pursuance of a vote of the people of
the county, for the special purpose of repaying borrowed money,
or of constructing or ordaining to construct any road or bridge,
or for aiding in any enterprise contemplated by the 21st section
of this act, such special tax shall be paid "in money and in no
other manner. § 26. The mode of submitting the questions to the
people, contemplated by the last two sections, shall be the following: The whole question including the sum desired to be raised,
or the amount of tax desired to be levied, or the rate per annum,
and the whole regulation, including the time of its taking effect,
or having operation, if it be of a nature to be set forth, and the
penalty of its violation, if there be one, is to be published at least
for four weeks in some newspaper published in the county. If
there be no such newspaper the publication is to be made by
being posted up in at least one of the most public places in each

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Statement of Facts.
election precinct in the county, and in all cases the notices shall
name the time when such question shall be voted upon, and the
form in which the question shall be taken, and a copy of the
question submitted shall be posted up at each place~of voting
during the day of election. § 27. When the question submitted
involves the borrowing or expenditure of money, the proposition
of the question must be accompanied by a provision to lay a tax
for the payment thereof, in addition to the usual taxes under
section sixteen of this act ; and no vote adopting the question
proposed shall be valid, unless it likewise adopt the amount of
tax to be levied to meet the liability incurred. § 28. The rate of
tax levied in pursuance of the last four sections of this act, shall,
in no case, exceed more than three mills on the dollar, of the
county valuation, in one year. When the object is to borrow
money to aid in the erection of public buildings, as provided, the
rate shall be such as to pay the debt in ten years. When the object is to construct, or aid in constructing, any road or bridge, the
annual rate shall not exceed one mill on a dollar of the valuation ;
and any special tax or taxes levied in pursuance of this act, becoming delinquent, shall draw the same rate of interest as ordinary taxes levied in pursuance of the revenue laws of this Territory.
§ 29. The said commissioners being satisfied that the above requirements have been substantially complied with, and that a
majority of the votes cast are in favor of the proposition submitted, shall cause the same to be entered at large upon the book
containing the record of their proceedings ; and they shall then
have power to levy and collect the special tax in the same manner
that the other county taxes are collected. Propositions thus acted
upon cannot be rescinded by the board of county commissioners.
§ 30. Money raised by the county commissioners in pursuance of
the last six sections of this act, is specially appropriated and constituted a fund distinct from all others in the hands of the county
treasurer, until the obligation assumed is discharged."

The records of the commissioners of Otoe County, and the
records of that county, showed the following facts: The county
clerk called a meeting of the commissioners of Otoe County,
to be held February 24th, 1866, "to take into consideration
the question of submitting to the people of said county the

issuance of the bonds of said county, not exceeding $200,000

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

in amount, to be used in securing to said county an eastern
railroad connection." The meeting was held on that day, two
conimnissioners being present, and it was ordered that an election be held on the 17th of March, 1866, in and throughout the
county of Otoe, "for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
commissioners of Otoo County shall issue bonds, not to exceed
$200,000, for the purpose of securing an eastern railroad connection for Nebraska City, N. T." The election was held on
the day named, and the vote was 1,362 for, and 201 against,
"the issuing of $200,000 for the purpose of securing an eastern
railroad connection for Nebraska City." On the 9th of November, 1866, the commissioners, three being present, made the
following order:
" Ordered, that ($40,000) forty thousand dollars be donated to
the Council Bluffs and St. Joseph Railroad Company, provided
that said railroad company locate their road within one and a half
miles of the Ferry Landing at Nebraska City, N. T., and secure to
Nebraska City and to Otoe County an eastern railroad connection
on or before the 1st day of September, 1876, by the way of St.
Joseph, Mo. The above order was made in conformity of a vote
of legal voters of Otoc County, taken at an election duly held
under and by virtue of an order of the county commissioners of
said county, on the 17th day of March, 1866, in pursuance of the
several acts of the legislature of the Territory of Nebraska, in
such cases made and provided."
The bonds were issued and were received by the railroad company, $7,000 on the 24th of November, 1866, $20,000 on the
23d of February, 1867, and $13,000 on the 13th of November,
1867. Nebraska became a State on the 1st of March, 1867.
14 Stat. 820.
On the 15th of February, 1869, the legislature of the State
passed an act, Laws of 1869, p. 92, entitled " An Act to enable
counties, cities, and precincts to borrow money on their bonds,
or to issue bonds to aid in the construction or completion of
works of internal improvement in this State, and to legalize
bonds already issued for such purpose." The first seven sections of this act authorized counties, cities, and precincts in the

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Statement of Facts.

State to issue bonds to aid in the construction of railroads and
other works of internal improvement, and prescribed regulations in respect to the same, embracing the taking of a prior
vote of the legal voters of the county, city, or precinct, and the
laying of taxes to pay the principal and interest of the bonds.
Section 8 was as follows:
"§ S. All bonds heretofore voted and issued by any county or
city in this State to aid in the construction of any railroad or
other work of internal improvement, are hereby declared to be
legal and valid, and a lien upon all the taxable property in such
county or city, notwithstanding any defect or irregularity in the
submission of the question to a vote of the people, or in taking
the vote, or in the execution of such bonds, and notwithstanding
the same may not have been voted upon, executed, or issued in
conformity with law, and such bonds shall have the same legal
validity and binding force as if they had been legally authorized,
voted upon, and executed; Provided, That nothing in this section,

nor in this act, shall be so construed as to legalize or in any way
sanction any vote of the people of Nemaha County heretofore had,
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of any railroad, nor
anything done by the county commissioners of said county au-

thorizing said vote, or anything done by them in consequence of
such vote."
On the same day the legislature of the State passed another
act, Laws of 1869, p. 260, entitled "An Act to authorize the
county commissioners of Otoe County to issue the bonds of said
county to the amount of $150,000 to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad, or any other railroad running east from
Nebraska City." This act provided as follows:
"Whereas the qualified voters of the county of Otoe and State
of Nebraska have heretofore, at an election held for that purpose,
authorized the county commissioners of said county to issue the
bonds of said county, in payment of stock, to any railroad in Fremont County, Iowa, that would secure to Nebraska City an eastern railroad connection, to the amount of two hundred thousand
dollars, and whereas but forty thousand dollars have been issued:
Section 1. Therefore, be it enacted by the Legislature of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

of Nebraska, That said commissioners be, and they are hereby,
authorized to issue one hundred and fifty thousand dollars of the
bonds aforesaid to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company, or any other railroad company that will secure to Nebraska City a direct eastern railroad connection, as a donation to
said railroad company, on such terms and conditions as may be
imposed by said county commissioners. Sec. 2. Said bonds, when
so issued, are hereby declared to be binding obligations on said
county, and to be governed by the terms and conditions of an act
entitled ' An Act to enable counties, cities, and precincts to borrow
money or to issue bonds to aid in the construction or completion
of works of internal improvement in this State, and to legalize
bonds already issued for such purpose,' approved February, A.D.
1869."

After an answer and a reply in each suit the two suits were
consolidated. The petitions by which the suits were commenced alleged, in respect to each of the bonds from which
the coupons sued on were cut, that it was issued and delivered
to the company, and assigned by it in blank, and was sold and
delivered by it for value, and has in due course of business
come to the plaintiff, "who has become and is the true and
lawful owner and holder thereof, together with the coupons
thereto annexed, and without any knowledge of any facts, if
any there be, affecting its validity ;" that, by the second act
of February 15th, 1869, above cited (which the petitions call
an act of the legislature of the Territory), the Territory recognized the due issue of the bonds; and that said county paid all
of the coupons attached to said bonds when the same were issued, except those which matured on and after January 1st, 1870.
The answers denied all the allegations of the petitions except
those expressly admitted. They denied that the county issued
or delivered the bonds. They admitted that the board of
county commissioners issued and delivered the bonds and coupons to the company, but aver that they did so without legal
authority; that neither the question of issuing the bonds nor
the proposition to lay or levy a tax for the payment of the
bonds or coupons was ever submitted to or voted or passed
upon by the voters or people of the county; that the bonds

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Statement of Facts.

were a donation by the commissioners to the company, for
which the county received no consideration; that the company
was an Iowa corporation, having its road wholly in that State;
that it obtained the bonds upon an agreement with the commissioners, with which it did not comply, as to where it would
build its road and establish a depot; that the plaintiff had
notice of all said facts when he received the bonds and coupons, and paid no consideration for them; that the Territory
of Nebraska did not, by said second act of February 15th,
1869, recognize the due issue of the bonds; and that said act
was unconstitutional and void, and was not retrospective or
retroactive, and did not pretend to authorize or legalize any
bond or bonds made or issued before that act was passed.
The answer in the second suit alleged as an additional defence,
that the question of issuing the bonds, and the sum to be raised,
and the amount of tax, and its rate, was not published before
Mareh 17th, 1866, or at any time, in any newspaper published
in the county, nor posted up in any election precinct, nor was
any question of issuing any bonds to said company ever so
published or posted up, and no copy of any question to be submitted and voted on by the people of the county at said election was posted up at any place of voting in the county during
the 17th of March, 1866. The replies denied the matters set
up in the answers.
A trial by jury having been duly waived in the consolidated
action, it was tried before the circuit judge and the district
judge. There was no special finding of facts. The judgment,
entered May 19th, 1883, stated that "the court finds for the
defendant upon all the causes of action pleaded by the plaintiff, upon coupons which were more than five years past due
when these actions were brought, and, upon all other causes
of action pleaded by the plaintiff in the said two several
actions, the court finds for the plaintiff, and assesses his damages at " $19,537.65. The judgment was for the plaintiff for
that amount, with costs. In the first suit, the answer set up
as a defence to the causes of action on the coupons which were
more than five years past due when the suit was brought, the
Nebraska statute of limitations.

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

There was, in the record, a bill of exceptions, which stated
that' it contains all the evidence offered or given by either
party in the trial of the case, but it contained no exception to
anything by either party, nor did the record contain any exception to any ruling of the court. The bonds and coupons
and the records of the county commissioners were made a part
of the bill of exceptions. The rest of the bill consisted of oral
testimony.
There was, however, in the record, a certificate signed by
the circuit judge and the district judge, and filed the same day
the judgment was entered, stating that, in the course of the
trial, the following questions arose for determination, that is
to say:
" First. Whether the commissioners of the defendant had the
power to issue bonds under either of the statutes, copies of which
are hereto attached, marked 'A' and 'B,' without first giving
four weeks' notice of the election, as provided by section 26 of
act marked 'B,' so that the same would be good and valid in the
hands of a bonafide holder ? Second. If the power to issue bonds
existed under either of said statutes, was it a defence available to
the county against a bona fide holder of the bonds in suit, that
the election, in pursuance of which they were issued, was for the
purpose of determining whether the county should issue its bonds
to the amount of $200,000, for the purpose of securing an eastern
connection for Nebraska City, when only $40,000 was issued under said vote ? Third. The order for the election not providing
for the submission of a provision to levy a tax, as required by
section 27 of the act marked ' B,' should it be presumed that the

proposition to issue the bonds submitted and voted on at an election was not accompanied by a provision to lay the tax as required
in said act, and, if such presumption is to be indulged, was the
presumed fact a defence available to the county against a bona
fide holder of the bonds ? Fourth. Was it a defence available to
the county against a bonafide holder, that the bonds in suit, after
being issued in pursuance of a vote held under one or both of said
acts, were donated to the railroad company, provided it were
located within one and one-half miles of Nebraska City? Fifth.
If originally illegal and void, were the bonds validated by the

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

acts, copies of which are hereto attached, marked 'C' and ' D ?'"
The act marked "A"

isthe Territorial act of January 6th, 186o

the act marked "B" is the Territorial act of January 11th,
1861 ; and the acts marked "C" and "D" are the two State
acts of February 15th, 1869. The certificate further states that,
"the circuit judge being of the opinion that, all of said questions notwithstanding, judgment should be for the plaintiff, and
the district judge being of the contrary opinion, it is ordered that
judgment be entered for the plaintiff, and the said questions be
certified to the Supreme Court for its consideration and answer,
at the request of counsel."

Each party sued out a writ of error to review the judgment.
-Mr.J. X. TVoolwortlt for Baldwin.
Xr. 0. P. ilfason, IMr. I

X. Sliambaugl, and _Xr. J. C.

Watson for Otoe County.
Mr.JUSTICE BLATCIIFORD delivered the opinion of the court.'
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he con:
tinued
The condition of the record is such, in the absence of an exception by either party to any ruling of the court in the
progress of the trial, and of a special finding of the court upon
facts, that there is nothing open for our consideration outside
of the questions embraced in the.certificate of the judges. We
accept the certificate as sufficient to warrant an answer to the
fifth question, although it does not state, in the terms of § 652
or § 693 of the Revised Statutes, that the judges disagreed upon
the points stated in the five questions, or that their opinions
were opposed upon such questibns, but only that they disagreed
as to whether the judgment should be for the plaintiff or the
defendant, notwithstanding all of said questions. Having
arrived at the conclusion that the fifth question must be
answered in the affirmative, and such result disposing of the
writ of error taken by the defendant, we do not deem it necessary to answer the other four questions. The fifth question
assumes that the bonds were originally illegal and void, and
we so assume, without so deciding, in answering that question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The question is not an open one, on this record, as to
whether the plaintiff is a bona fide owner of the bonds and
coupons for value, without knowledge or notice of any facts
affecting their validity, as alleged in the petitions and replies
and denied in the answers. That issue is found for the plaintiff by the general finding in his favor as to all the causes of
action except those on coupons which fell due before July 1st,
1877. This general finding has the same effect as the verdict
of a jury, and we cannot review it.
It is contended for the defendant that the failure to give the
four weeks' notice of the election, as provided by § 26 of the
act marked "B," and the failure to include in the vote the
question of taxation, as provided by § 27, constituted such a
want of power to issue the bonds that the legislature could not
validate their issue.
The Territorial act of January 11th, 1861, the proceedings
for the election and its result, and the State act marked " D,"
were before this court in Rcilroad Company v. County of Otoe,
16 Wall. 667, at December Term, 1872. After that act was
passed, and in September, 1869, the commissioners of Otoo
County issued to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad
Company, named in that act, as a donation, the $150,000 of
bonds mentioned in it, there having been no vote of the people,
other than the one above mentioned, authorizing the issue of
the bonds. The bonds and their coupons were transferred for
value, and before the maturity of any of the coupons, by that
company, to the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company, and it sued the county, on some of the coupons, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska. Upon the trial of that suit, two questions were certified
to this court: 1. Whether the act marked "D," authorizing
the county to issue bonds in aid of a railroad outside of the State,
conflicted with the Constitution of the State. 2. Whether the
county commissioners, under that act, could lawfully issue the
bonds without the proposition to vote the bonds for the purpose
indicated, and also a tax to pay the same, being or having been
submitted to a vote of the people of the county, as provided by
the Territorial act of January 11th, 1861. This court held,

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

1. That the act of February 15th, 1869, authorizing the county
of Otoe to issue bonds in aid of a railroad outside of the State,
did not conflict with the Constitution of the State. 2. That it
was a valid exercise of legislative authority, to authorize a
county to incur indebtedness and impose taxation in aid of
railroad companies. 3. That the legislature could constitutionally authorize a donation of the county bonds to the railroad
company. 4. That it could authorize aid to a railroad beyond
the limits of the county and outside of the State. 5. That,
under said act of February 15th, 1869, the county commissioners could lawfully issue the $150,000 of bonds, without a vote
of the people, as provided by the Territorial act of January
11th, 1861, on the proposition to issue them and on the question
of taxation to pay them. This court said, by Mr. Justice
Strong: "If the legislature had power to authorize the county
officers to extend aid on behalf of the county or State to a rail
road company, as we have seen it had, very plainly it could
prescribe the mode in which such aid might be extended as
well as the terms and conditions of the extension, and it needed
no assistance from the popular vote of the municipality. Such
a vote could not have enlarged legislative power. But the act
of 1869 was an unconditional bestowal of authority upon the
county commissioners to issue the bonds to the railroad company. It required no precedent action of the voters of the
county. It assumed that their assent had been obtained.
That prior to 1869 the sanction of approval by a local popular
vote had been required for munieipal aid to railroad companies
or improvement companies, is quite immaterial. The requisition
was but the act of an annual legislature, which any subsequent
legislature could abrogate or annul."
It cannot be doubted that the two acts of February 15th,
1869, taken together, intended to legalize the $40,000 of bonds
issued to the Council Bluffs and St. Joseph Railroad Company.
These bonds fall within the description of section 8 of the act
marked "C," as bonds theretofore "voted and issued" by the
county of Otoe to aid in the construction of a railroad. The
vote was a vote of the county to issue $200,000 of bonds "for
the purpose of securing an eastern railroad connection for

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Nebraska City;" and the $40,000 of bonds were issued as a
donation to said company, to aid it in building a railroad so
near to Nebraska City as to secure to that city and to the county
of Otoe an eastern railroad connection by the way of St. Joseph.
The defects and irregularities alleged in respect to the bonds
were defects and irregularities in submitting to a vote of the
people of the county the question of issuing the bonds, in regard
to the publishing of notice, and in regard to including in the
vote the question of taxation. It was alleged that the bonds were
not voted upon or issued in conformity with law. The statute
enacted that, notwithstanding such defects or irregularities, the
bonds should be legal and valid, and should have the same legal
validity and binding force as if they had been legally authorized,
voted upon and executed. The act of the same date, marked
" D," refers to and identifies sufficiently the election held, and
the authority given by the vote to the county commissioners to
issue the bonds of the county to the amount of $200,000, "to
any railroad in Fremont County, Iowa, that would secure to
Nebraska City an eastern railroad connection." It recites the
authority as one to issue the bonds "in payment of stock."
But the question is one merely of identity, and it is not pretended there was any election in Otoc County to the purport
set forth, including the words "in payment of stock," while
there was just such an election leaving out those words.
The identity is further shown by the words in the act, "and
whereas but forty thousand dollars have been issued," and by
the authority given to issue $150,000' of the bonds aforesaid,"
that is, of the $200,000 of bonds so voted, as a donation to any
railroad company that would "secure to Nebraska City a direct
eastern railroad connection." It is not pretended that any
$40,000 of bonds were issued except those named in the bonds
sued on in this suit. Taking the two acts together, the legislature recognized the fact that the voters of Otoe County had
voted to issue $200,000 of bonds to secure an eastern railroad
connection for Nebraska City in that county; that $40,000 had
been issued; and that the defects and irregularities before
named were alleged to have occurred in respect to the voting
upon and issuing the $40,000 of the bonds; and it enacted that

OTOE COUNTY v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

those bonds should be legal and valid, and that $150,000 more
of the $200,000 should be issued for the same purpose.
The decision by this court in regard to the $150,000 of bonds
leaves but little more to say in regard to the $40,000. As the
legislature had power to authorize the issue of bonds without
any precedent action of the voters of the county, it could
validate the issue of bonds by curing and legalizing defects in
respect to the voting. The bonds were assigned by the railroad
company, and came to the plaintiff after the acts of 1869 were
passed, and he became a bona d7e holder of them on the faith
of those acts. The doctrine is well settled in this court, that
the legislature of a State, unless restrained by its organic law,
has the right to authorize a municipal corporation to issue bonds
in aid of a railroad, and to levy a tax to pay the bonds and the
interest on them, with or without a popular vote, and to cure,
by a retrospective act, irregularities in the exercise of the power
conferred. To mpson v. Lee County, 3 Wall. 327; Cagnpbellv.
Oity qf Kenoska, 5 Id. 194.
Much stress is laid by the defendant on the decision of the
Supreme Court of Nebraska in Ifarninv. Meadville,6 Neb.227,
in 1877. That was a suit brought in February, 1871, by an owner
of property in Otoe County, to enjoin the county treasurer
from collecting a tax levied on his property to pay the interest
on these $40,000 of bonds and to have the bonds declared void.
A judgment to that effect was rendered and was affirmed by
the Supreme Court. The question adjudged in the case was
the power conferred on the county commissioners, by the acts
of 1860 and 1861, to issue the bonds. It was held that the
only authority, if any, given by the vote of the people, was to
subscribe for stock in a railroad company. The act marked
" C" was not considered. It was held that it was not the purpose of the act marked "D" to legalize the $40,000 of bonds,
but only to authorize the issue of the $1.50,000 of bonds; and
that the only subject or object expressed in its title was the
issuing of bonds.
The adjudication in Jfamlin v. ilfeadville is not set up as a
judgment binding on the plaintiff. Nor can it be. ie was no
party to it, nor was any holder of the bonds.

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

It is objected that the act marked "C" is void because
section 19 of article 2 of the Constitution of Nebraska of 1867,
provided that "no bill shall contain mo.e than one subject,
which shall be clearly expressed in its title," and because the
act does not comply with those provisions. It is plain, we
think, that the bill does not contain more than one subject.
That subject is municipal bonds issued or to be issued to aid in
making works of internal improvement. There is but one purpose, object, or subject, and that is the aiding of such works by
bonds and the status of such bonds. The subject of the act, to
authorize future bonds and legalize existing bonds, for such
purpose, is clearly expressed in its title.
But it is objected that the title of the act is limited to bonds
issued or to be issued to aid works in Nebraska, while the body
of the act extends to works anywhere; and that so the subject
of the act is not expressed in its title. The first section of the
act relates to the future issues of bonds by "any county
or city in the State," the seventh section relates to like issues
by "any precinct in any organized county of this State," and
the eighth section relates to "bonds heretofore voted and
issued by any county or city in this State." The railroads and
works of internal improvement referred to in the body of the
act are not limited to those situated in the State. It would, we
think, be a strained construction, to hold that the title of the
act is to be so interpreted as to be limited to works situated in
the State, when such limitation does not exist in the body of
the act, and when the words "in this State," in the title, may
fairly be regarded as applicable to the prior words "counties,
cities, and precincts," to which words they are applied in the body
of the act. This principle of construction is sanctioned by the
views expressed in Jlfontclair v. Jiamsdl, 107 IT. S.147, and in
Ciy of Jonesboro' v. Cairo & St. Louis -Railroad Company,
110 U. S.192. See also Cooley's Constitutional Limitations,
141, et seq. We have not been referred to any decision of the
Supreme Court of Nebraska which we regard as in conflict
with these views.
The question sought to be raised by the writ of error of the
plaintiff is, that the statute of limitations had not run against

LAMMON v. FEUSIER.
Statement of Facts.

the coupons which were more than five years past due when
the first suit was commenced, because, under section 17 of the
Code of Civil Procedure of Nebraska, the disability of a
married woman, from whom the plaintiff purchased the bonds,
intervened for a sufficient time, between their date and such
purchase by him, to prevent what would otherwise be the bar
of the statute. Without considering that question, it is sufficient to say, that the facts on which it could be raised are not
admitted in the pleadings or specially found by the court, and
that the general finding for the defendant on the causes of
action on coupons which were more than five years past due
when the actions were brought, and the absence of any exception by the plaintiff to any ruling of the court in regard to the
question, preclude any adjudication here upon it.
Tle fifth question certeied is answered in the afflrmative, and
tmejudgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

LAMMON & Others v. FEUSIER & Others.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

TIHE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Submitted January 10th, 1884.-Decided March 17th, 1884.

Bond-Officer of the Court-Surety.
The taking, by a marshal of the United States, upon a writ of attachment on
mesne process against one person, of the goods of another, is a breach of
the condition of his official bond, for which his sureties are liable.

The original action was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nevada, by Henry Feusier, a
citizen of California, against George I. Lammon and three
other persons, citizens of Nevada, upon a bond given by
Lammon, the marshal of the United States for that district, as
principal, and by the other defendants as his sureties, and conditioned that Lainmon, "by himself and by his deputies, shall
faithfully perform all the duties of the said office of marshal."
VOL. CXI-2

