OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

denial of the equal protection of the laws to grant to one man,
or set of men, the privilege of following an Ordinary calling in
a large community, and to deny it to all others, it is difficult
to understand what would come within the constitutional prohibition.
Monopolies are the bane of our body politic at the present
day. In the eager pursuit of gain they are sought in every
direction. They exhibit themselves in corners in the stock
market and produce market, and in many other ways. If by
legislative enactment they can be carried into the common
avocations and callings of life, so as to cut off the right of the
citizen to choose his avocation, the right to earn. his bread by
the trade which he has learned; and if there is no constitutional means of putting a check to such enormity, I can only
say that it is time the Constitution was still further amended.
In my judgment, the present Constitution is amply sufficient
for the protection of the people if it is fairly interpreted and
faithfully enforced.

EX PARTE: R1ITZ, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 4th, 5th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.
Certiorari-Diplomatic
privilege.
A writ of certiorari when applied for by a defendant is not a writ of right but
discretionary with the court.
On an application by a person indicted for an offence committed while president of a national bank against the provisions of ยง 5209 for certiorari to
bring up the indictment on the ground that when the alleged offence was
committed he was a political agent of a foreign government, the application was refused when it appeared that his own government had requested
his resignation prior to the finding of the indictment, although it was not
actually given till subsequent thereto, and that the political department of
the Government of the United States had refused him the privilege of free
entry of goods usually accorded to a diplomatic representative.

This was an application by Mr. John litz for a writ of certiorari commanding the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

EX PARTE

ITZ.

Opinion of the Court.

lumbia to certify to this court an indictment and the proceedings thereunder against hm in that court, on the ground that
when the indictment was filed, and when the offences therein
charged where committed, he was the diplomatic representative of the Swiss Confederation, duly accredited to and received
and recognized by the United States, under the title of Political Agent. The indictment was filed on the 17th of June, 1881.
From the return which was made to the rule to show cause
it appeared that the indictment was for an offence against the
provisions of ยง 5209 of the Revised Statutes alleged to have
been committed by Mr. Hitz while and as president of the
German-American National Bank of Washington. It also appeared that he was for many years the Consul General of the
Swiss Confederation within the United States, and that on the
28th of February, 1868, he was accredited to the United States
by the same govermnent as Political Agent. On the 30th of
May, 1881, he was requested by the Swiss Confederation to
resign both these offices, and this he did on the 15th of June.
On the 20th of June his resignations were accepted.
_Hr. 0. D. Barrett and ihfr. -Benjamin F. Butler for petitioner.
lr. IR. Ross Perry and

fr. A. S. IYorthington opposing.

MIR. CIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
ie stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
'Precisely what the relations of Mr. Hitz to the United States
were as Political Agent of the Swiss Confederation we have
not been advised, and on application to the Department of
State, made on the suggestion of the court by the counsel in
this proceeding, we are informed that the records of the department show nothing upon this subject except a letter from
him under date of March 30th, 1868, enclosing his letter of
credence, and soliciting an interview with the Secretary of
State for its formal presentation; the answer of Secretary
Seward according such an interview, and fixing the 2d of
April as the time; and a letter from Secretary Fish to Mr.
liitz, under date of June 28th, 1870, informing him that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

(the Secretary) did not find in his relations to the United States
any ground for continuing the privilege to him of a free entry
of goods imported for his use.
Under these circumstances, as the writ of certiorari, when
applied for by a defendant, is not a writ of right, but discretionary with the court (Bac. Ab. Certiorari A), we deny this
application, leaving the parties to such remedies as they may
be entitled to elsewhere, or under any other form of proceeding.
Petition dismissed.

CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO & Another
v. SCOTT.
IN ERROR TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 18th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Jurisdiction.
The decision of the State Courts of California upon the question whether an
alcalde in San Francisco after the conquest and before the incorporation of
San Francisco, and before the adoption of a State Constitution by California, could make a valid grant of pueblo lands presents no federal question, and is not reviewable here.

The facts are stated by the court in its opinion.
.Mr. William Craig, iMr. I-arry -I 1'kornton, and XMr. J. II.
Meredith for plaintiffs in error.

iMr. Sidney V. Smith Jr. for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

There is no federal question in this case. The right of San
Francisco under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo to the lands
in dispute as pueblo lands is not denied. Precisely what that
right was may not be easy to state. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said, in Townsend v. Greely, 5 Wall. 336, " It
was not an indefeasible estate; ownership of the lands in the
pueblos could not in strictness be affirmed. It amounted in

