OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

COVELL v. IIEYMAN.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued March 17th, 1884.-Decided March 31st, 1884.

Conflict of Law.
The possession by a marshal of a court of the United States of property by
virtue of a levy under a writ of execution issued upon a judgment recovered
in a Circuit Court of the United States is a complete defence to an action
in a State court of replevin of the property seized, without regard to its
rightful ownership. Freeman v. _howe, 24 How. 450, affirmed and applied
to the facts in this case. Krippendo?-f v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, affirmed.
Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, distinguished.
The principle that whenever property has been seized by an officer of the court
by virtue of its process, the property is to be considered as in the custody of
the court and under its control for the time being, applies both to a taking
under a writ of attachment on mesne process and to 'a taking under a
writ of execution.

The defendant in error was the plaintiff in the State court,
and brought her action of replevin for the recovery of specific
personal property, to which she claimed title, and which she alleged was wrongfully detained from her by the plaintiff in error.
The defendant below was deputy marshal of the United States,
and, as such, had possession of the property replevied by virtue
of an execution issued upon a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Michigan against
Adolph Heyman, having taken the same, by virtue of a levy
under said execution, as the property of the judgment debtor.
Judgment was rendered in the Supreme Court of the State for
the plaintiff below, upon a finding in favor of her title to the
property, reversing a judgment for the defendant below in the
Circuit Court for the county of Kent. To reverse that judgment this writ of error was prosecuted.
X2r. Roger TV Bufteifeld for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Iyman D. Xorris for defendant in error submitted on
his brief.

COVELL v. HEYMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

MIZ. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
The sole question presented for our decision is whether it was
error in the State court to permit a recovery of the possession
of property, thus held, against a marshal of the United States
or his deputy, in behalf of the rightful owner; and whether,
on the other hand, it should not have adjudged in favor of the
defendant below, that his possession of the property by virtue
of the levy under the writ was, in itself, a complete defence to
the action of replevin, without regard to the rightful ownership.
The case of Ereeman v. lowe, 24 How. 450, was precisely
like the present in its circumstances, except that there the process under which the marshal had seized and held the property
replevied, was an attachment according to the State practice
in Massachusetts, being mesne process, directed, however, not
against property specifically described, but commanding a levy,
as in cases of ft. fa., upon the property of the defendant.
Whether that difference is material is, perhaps, the only question to be considered, for the doctrine of that decision is too
firmly established in this court to be longer open to question.
The proper answer to it will be found by an examination of
the principles on which the judgment in that case proceeded,
and of those cases which preceded, and of others, which have
followed it.
In the opinion in that case, Mr. Justice Nelson refers to the
case of Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, as a conclusive and
sufficient authority on the point. le said: "TT h e main point
there decided was, that the property seized by the sheriff,
under the process of attachment from the State court, and
while in the custody of the officer, could not be seized or taken
from him by a process from the District Court of the United
States, and that the attempt to seize it by the marshal, by a
notice or otherwise, was a nullity, and gave the court no jurisdiction over it, inasmuch as to give jurisdiction to the District
Court in a proceeding in rem, there must be a valid seizure and
an actual control of the ree under the process." And referring
to the grounds of the dissent in that case, he continues: "The
majority of the court was of opinion that according to the
VOL. CXI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

course of decision in the case of conflicting authorities under a
State and federal process, and in order to avoid unseemly collision between them, the question as to which authority should
for the time prevail, did not depend upon the rights of the respective parties to the property seized, whether the one was
paramount to the other, but upon the question which jurisdiction had first attached by the seizure and custody of the
property under its process."
The opinion then proceeds to show that no distinction can
be made, affecting the question, between process in rein, and
an attachment issued by a common-law court, although the
latter is not the foundation of the jurisdiction, and the property
seized is not the subject matter of the suit, which is simply for
the recovery of a debt, without a lien or charge upon the
property, except that resulting from its seizure, as security for
the judgment. The objection that the process was directed
against the property of the defendant and conferred no
authority upon the marshal to take the property of the plaintiffs in the replevin suit, is then answered, the court saying"for the property having been seized under the process of attachment, and in the custody of the marshal, and the right to
bold it being a question belonging to the Federal court, under
whose process it was seized, to determine, there was no authority,
as we have seen, under the process of the State court to interfere with it."
The opinion of the court then points out the error of Chancellor Kent, in his statement, 1 Kent, 410, that, "if a marshal
of the United States, under an execution in favor of the United
States against A, should seize the person or property of B,
then the State courts have jurisdiction to protect the person
and the property so illegally invaded." Commenting on this
statement, it is said, that the effect of the principle, if admitted, would be to draw into the State courts, "not only all
questions of the liability of property seized upon mesno and
final process issued under the authority of the Federal courts,
including the admiralty, for this court can be no exception, for
the purposes for which it was seized, but also the arrests upon
mesne and imprisonment upon final process of the person in

COVELL v. HEYMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

both civil and criminal cases, for in every case the question of
jurisdiction could be made;" and the court adds: "We need
scarcely remark, that no government could maintain the administration or execution of its laws, civil or criminal, if the jurisdiction of its judicial tribunals were subject to the determination
of another."
To meet the objection, that the party whose property had
been wrongfully taken and withheld would be left without
remedy, unless by virtue of citizenship he could sue in a Federal
court, the opinion then explains the remedy in such cases, by
an ancillary proceeding in the court whose process has been
made the instrument of the wrong; a remedy the principle
and procedure of which we had occasion recently in the case
of riEppendorfv. Iyde, 110 U. S. 276, to restate and reaffirm.
The point of the decision in JF'reeman v. Ilowe, ap ra, is that,
when property is taken and held under process, mesne or final,
of a court of the United States, it is in the custody of the law,
and within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court from which the
process has issued, for the purposes of the writ; that the possession of the officer cannot be disturbed by process from any State
court, because to disturb that possession would be to invade the
jurisdiction of the court by whose command it is held, and to violate the law which that jurisdiction is appointed to administer;
that any person, not a party to the suit or judgment, whose
property has been wrongfully, but under color of process,
taken and withheld, may prosecute, by ancillary proceedings,
in the court whence the process issued, his remedy for restitution of the property or its proceeds, while remaining in the
control of that court; but that all other remedies to which he
may be entitled, against officers or parties, not involving the
withdrawal of the property or its proceeds, from the custody
of the officer and the jurisdiction of the court, he may pursue
in any tribunal, State or federal, having jurisdiction over the
parties and the subject matter. And vice versa, the same principle protects the possession of property while thus held, by
process issuing from State courts, against any disturbance under
process of the courts of the United States; excepting, of course,
those cases wherein the latter exercise jurisdiction for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of enforcing the supremacy of the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
The doctrine of Freeman v. Howe, supra, was further defined
by the decision in Buck v. Colbaik, 3 Wall. 334, which checked
and corrected an attempted misapplication of its principle,
which, if permitted, would cover actions against the officer for
trespasses, not involving any interference with the property
itself while in his possession. It was there satisfactorily shown
that the officer was protected against such an action, only in
that class of cases where he could justify under process or
order of a court directing expressly the very act alleged to be
wrongful; and not in that other class, where the writ or order,
such as a writ of attachment or other inesne process, and the
final process of execution upon a judgment, commands the
seizure of property described not specifically, but only generally, as the property of the party named in the writ. In the
latter, the officer acts at his peril, and is responsible in damages
to the party injured for the consequences of any error or mistake in the exercise of his discretion in the attempt to enforce
the writ. In the former, as he has no discretion, it is the court
itself which acts, and the officer is protected in his obedience
to its command. Of this class, the case of Connor v. -Long,
104 U. S. 228, was an example; that of Bucke v. Colbalb, siqva,
fell within the latter. And in distinguishing that case from
Freencmn v. Ifowe, s8upra, Mr. Justice Miller stated the principle of the latter decision-" a principle," he said, " which is
essential to the dignity and just authority of every court, and
to the comity which should regulate the relations between all
courts of concurrent jurisdiction ;" " that principle is," lie continned, "that whenever property has been seized by an officer
of the court, by virtue of its process, the property is to be considered as in the custody of the court, and under its control for
the time being; and that no other court has a right to interfere with that possession, unless it be some court which may
have a direct supervisory control over the court whose process
has first taken possession, or some superior jurisdiction in the
premises."
Here it will be perceived that no distinction is made between

COVELL v. HEYMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

writs of attachment and executions upon judgments, and that
the principle embraces both, as indeed both are mentioned as
belonging to the same class elsewhere in the opinion.
And there is nothing in the nature, office, or command of
the two descriptions of process, by which, so far as the question
here involved is concerned, they can be distinguished. One is
mesne process and the other final ; but in the courts of the
United States the attachment cannot be used, as in the practice
of other jurisdictions, as means of compelling the appearance
of the defendant, or of founding jurisdiction as a proceeding
in rem. Both alike command the seizure of the property of
the defendant without a specific description, and in obeying
the precept., the officer exercises precisely the same discretion,
and with the same consequences, if he commits a wrong under
color of it. The court has the same control over both forms of
its process, and has custody of the property seized by virtue of
them in the same sense. The circumstance that, as to property
held under an attachment, the final judgment may direct its
sale, while the execution is issued upon prmcipe of the party,
and is executed without further order, cannot alter the relation
of the court, either to the officer or the property. It has jurisdiction over the latter to meet and satisfy the exigency of
either writ, and that jurisdiction can be maintained only by
retaining the possession acquired by the officer in executing it.
A third person, a stranger to the suit and claiming as owner,
may prosecute his right to restitution in either case, in the
same methods as pointed out in JA~ippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U.
S. 276, or he may pursue his remedy for damages against the
olficer, either personally for the trespass, as in Back v. Colbath,
s',tpa, or for the breach of his official duty, upon his bond and
against his sureties, as in the case of lammon et al. v. F1eusier
et al., ante, page 17.
The very point was involved in the decision in lIfgan v.
_Laes, 10 Pet. 400, where it was expressly held that pioperty
held by a sheriff under an execution from a State court could
not be taken in execution by a marshal of the United States by
virtue of final process upon a judgment in a Federal court. Mr.
Justice McLean, delivering the opinion of the court, said:

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

"Had the property remained in the possession of the sheriff
under the first levy, it is clear the marshal could not have
taken it in execution, for the property could not be subject to
two jurisdictions at the same time. The first levy, whether it
were made under the Federal or State authority, withdraws the
property from the reach of the process of the other." "A
most injurious conflict of jurisdiction would be likely often to
arise between the Federal and State courts, if the final process
of the one could be levied on property which had been taken
by the process of the other. The marshal or the sheriff, as the
case may be, by a levy, acquires a special property in the goods,
and may maintain an action for them. But if the same goods
may be taken in execution at the same time by the marshal
and the sheriff, does this special property vest in the one, or
the other, or both of them ? No such case can exist; property
once levied on remains in the custody of the law, and it is not
liable to be taken by another execution in the hands of a different officer; and especially by an officer acting under a different
jurisdiction."
That which cannot be done by final process, is equally out of
the reach of original or mesne process.
The forbearance which courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction, administered under a single system, exercise towards each other,
whereby conflicts are avoided, by avoiding interference with
the process of each other, is a principle of comity, with perhaps
no higher sanction than the utility which comes from concord;
but between State courts and those of the United States, it is
something more. It is a principle of right and of law, and
therefore, of necessity. It leaves nothing to discretion or mere
convenience. These courts do not belong to the same system,
so far as their jurisdiction is concurrent; and although they
co-exist in the same space, they are independent, and have no
common superior. They exercise jurisdiction, it is true, within
the same territory, but not in the same plane ; and when one
takes into its jurisdiction a specific thing, that rs" is as much
withdrawn from the judicial power of the other, as if it had been
carried physically into a different territorial sovereignty. To
attempt to seize it by a foreign process is futile and void. The

COVELL v. HEYMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

regulation of process, and the decision of questions relating to
it., are part of the jurisdiction of the court from which it issues.
" The jurisdiction of a court," said Chief Justice Marshall, "is
not exhausted by the rendition of its judgment, but continues
until that judgment shall be satisfied. Many questions arise
on the process, subsequent to the judgment, in which jurisdiction is to be exercised."
IVaymncob v. Scuthard, 10 Wheat. 1.
The principle which defines the boundaries of jurisdiction
between the judicial tribunals of the States and of the United
States, the application of which effectually prevents their confusion, was set forth and vindicated in the judgment of this
court in tblenan v. -Boothi, 21 How. 506. It was there said
by Chief Justice Taney, p. 516, that "the sphere of action
appropriated to the United States is as far beyond the reach of
the judicial process issued by a State judge or a State court as
if the line of division was traced by landmarks and monuments
visible to the eye." And speaking of the procedure in cases of
habeas corpus, issued under State authority, and admitting the
duty of the officer of the United States, holding the prisoner
under its process, to return the fact and show his warrant, the
Chief Justice continues: " But after the return is made and the
State judge or court judicially apprized that the party is in
custody under the authority of the United States, they can
proceed no further. They then know that the prisoner is
within the dominion and jurisdiction of another government,
and that neither the writ of abeas corpus nor any other
process issued under State authority can pass over the line of
division between the two sovereignties. He is then within the
dominion and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. If
he has committed an offence against their laws, their tribunals
alone can punish him. If he is wrongfully imprisoned, their
judicial tribunals can release him and afford hin redress." . . .
"No judicial process, whatever form it may assume, can have
any lawful authority outside of the limits of the jurisdiction
of the court or judge by whom it is issued; and any attempt
to enforce it beyond these boundaries is nothing less than lawless violence." And in Tarble's,Cas, 13 Wll. 397, commenting
on this language of Chief Justice Taney in Ableman v. Booth,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

supra, Mr. Justice Field points out, that it was not intended
merely to meet cases where the authority of the United States
was undisputed, but cases where its validity was questioned, and
it appeared that the prisoner was held under claim and color
of such authority, in good faith, and not by way of mere pretence and imposition. And the exclusive authority of the court
issuing the writ extends, not only to the decisions of all questions affecting its jurisdiction, and the form and force of the
writ itself, and the validity of the proceeding in issuing and
executing it, but also of all questions affecting the identity of
the person or property seized and held under color of its
authority, and the right to exempt them from its operation. It
does not avail therefore to say, that, as the writ commands the
officer to take the property of the defendant, he cannot under
that claim to take and hold the property of another; because
the property which he does actually take, he takes and holds
as the property of the defendant, claiming it to be such, and
therefore he has it in his possession under color of process and
claim of right.
In Lamnon el al. v. ]eusier et al. already cited, it was said
by Mr. Justice Gray, in reference to the case of a common-law
attachment, that "the taking of the attachable property of the
person named in the writ is rightful, the taking of the property
of another person is wrongful; but each, being done by the
marshal in executing the writ in his hands, is an attempt to
perform his official duty and is an official act." The same is
true of a similar levy under an execution, as we have shown
that there is no difference, relevant to the point, between the
two writs.
Property thus levied on by attachment, or taken in execution,
is brought by the writ within the scope of the jurisdiction of
the court whose process it is, and as long as it remains in the
possession of the officer it is in the custody of the law. It is
the bare fact of that possession under claim and color of that
authority, without respect to the ultimate right, to be asserted
otherwise and elsewhere, as already sufficiently explained, that
furnishes to the officer complete immunity from the process of
every other jurisdiction that attempts to dispossess him. That

ROSENTHAL v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

was the defence made and relied on by the plaintiff in error in
the present case, and to which the Supreme Court of Michigan
refused to give its due and conclusive effect. For that error
its judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded with directions to affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court for the
County of Kent, in favor of the plaintiff in error; and
Pt is so ordered.

ROSENTHAL v. WALKER, Assignee.
IN ERROR TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued March 21st, 1884.-Decided March 31st, 1884.

Bankruptey-Statirte of Limitations-Evidence.
Where an action by an assignee in bankruptcy is intended to obtain redress
against a fraud concealed by the party, or which from its nature remains
secret, tile bar of the statute of limitations, Rev. Stat. ยง 5057, does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered. Bailey v. Gover, 21 Wall. 342,
cited and affirmed. Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 135, and National Bank
v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 567, distinguished.
It is competent, as tending to prove a fraudulent transfer of property in contemplation of bankruptcy, to show a prior valid sale from the bankrupt to
the same party, if it can be connected with evidence tending to show
a secret agreement by which the bankrupt acquired an interest in the
goods sold.
Evidence that a lctter properly directed was put in the post office is admissible
to show presumptively that the letter reached its destination ; and if the
party to whom the letter was addressed denies its receipt, it is for the jury
to determine the weight of the presumption.
Proof that a bankrupt when being examined respecting his property refuses to
answer questions on the ground that the answers might criminate him,
as an indictment was pending against him for a criminal offence, under the
bankrupt laws, does not so put the assignee on inquiry as to fraudulent transfers of the bankrupt's property as to deprive him of the benefit of tle
rule respecting the statute of limitations laid down in Bailey v. Glover, 21
Wall. 342, and affirmed in this case.

This was an action brought by the assignee of a bankrupt to
recover the value of property alleged to have been fraudulently
transferred by the bankrupt in violation of the provisions of
the bankrupt act. The defendant below resisted the recovery

