BAINES v. CLARKE.
Syllabus.

defendant below brought the case here by writ of error to
review that order. The defendant in error moved to dismiss
the writ of error and to affirm the judgment.
X~r. nocl Totten for defendent in error in support of the
motion.
No brief filed in opposition.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The order remanding this case is affirmed. The act of March
3d, 1875, c. 137, see. 5, 18 Stat. 470, makes it the duty of the
Circuit Court to remand a suit which has been removed from
a State court when it satisfactorily appears that the "suit does
not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court." The
exemplification of the record of the naturalization of Moses
Burton, which was offered in evidence, did not require, to coinplete its authentication, the certificate of the clerk under the
seal of his office that the judge of the court was duly commissioned and qualified. The certificates may be to some extent
defective in form, but we think the record as a whole could
properly be considered by the judge on the question of remanding the cause.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

Aflrm ed.

BAINES, Administrator v. CLARKE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued April 25th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Contract-Interest.
A conveyed to B a large quantity of land for $5 an acre, to be paid in instalments with legal interest on deferred payments from June 3d, 1873. Suits
were pending as to some of the lands, and it was agreed that if recovery
phould be had against A as in any of the suits, the land so recovered should
not form part of the land sold, and the last instalment of $50,000 was agreed
to be reserved until decision of the suits and ascertainment of quantity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

IHeld, (1) That A was entitled to interest according to the agreement on deferred payments as to all lands of which he was in possession whether in
suit or not ; (2) that as to all lands held adversely he was entitled to interest
from the entry of judgment in his favor in the ejeetmeot suits; (3) as to
lands within the bounds of the description, the title to which was acquired
by him after its date, to interest only from the date of the acquisition of
the title ; (4) and as to the last instalment of the deferred payments, to
interest from June 3d, 1873.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
1W>. Caleb Boggess and 1Wr. S. A. Afiller for appellant.
_fr. William ]P

fnkney
Whyte for appellees.

IVIn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the 2d of February, 1874, John D. Lewis conveyed
to George W. Norris and Henry Clarke three certain tracts of
land embraced within the exterior boundaries of a sur~ey of
40,000 acres granted by the Commonwealth of Virginia to Jacob
Skyles on the 11th of July, 1798. The instrument by which
the conveyance was made was signed by both parties, and
contained not only a grant of the land, but an agreement on
the part of the grantees for the payment of the purchasemoney. That agreement was as follows:
"The consideration of this deed is five dollars per acre as
aforesaid, to be paid as follows: $50,000 in cash, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged; $25,000 to be paid on the
1st day of October, 1874; $25,000 on the 1st day of April,
1875 ; $50,000 on the 1st day of January, 1876; and $50,000,
or whatever may be the balance due, on the 1st day of January, 1877, with legal interest on all the deferred payments
from the 3d day of June, 1873, said interest to be paid semiannually, commencing on the 1st day of July, 1874. And it is
further understood and agreed by the parties to this deed that
an accurate survey of the lands hereby granted shall be made
under the direction and superintendence of S. A. Miller, of
Charleston, to ascertain the true quantity of lands intended to
be granted, such survey to be made by running the exterior
lines embracing the said three lots made by Surveyor and

BA NES v. CLARKE.
Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner Thomas S. A. Matthews previous to the sale,
and now of record in the proceedings aforementioned, and as
described and set forth in this deed, and in the deed from
James M. Laidly, survey commissioner of himself and said
Matthews, under the decrees and orders in said proceedings for
the sale of Jacob Skyles's survey of 40,000. And, as it is further
known that there are sundry suits pending in the Circuit Court
of Kanawha County between the said John D. Lewis, as defendant, and Hale and McMullin, George Belcher, W. A.
M Mullin, J. L. MeMullin, and George W. Morrison, as plaintiffs, all of which are now submitted to arbitration by an order
of said Circuit Court; it is further agreed that any recovery of
any land within the boundaries aforesaid shall be and constitute no part of the lands herein sold and granted, but be deducted therefrom at the said rate of five dollars per acre, the
said John D. Lewis agreeing to use all diligence in the prosecution of said suits, so as to obtain a speedy trial;
it is further understood and agreed that the last payment, or
balance of $50,000, due Ist January, 1877, and interest, is reserved until the decision of said suits and the ascertainment of
quantity; and the said John D. Lewis hereby reserves a claim
upon the land hereby granted for the payment of the purchasemoney, and the interest thereon of all the deferred instalments
as hereinbefore provided."
The cash instalment of $50,000 was paid, as was also the instalnent of $25,000 due on the 1st of October, 1874. Default
having been made in the payment of the amount falling due
on the 1st of April, 1875, and the interest maturing July
1st, 1875, Lewis filed this bill in the Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia, on the 17th of August, 1875,
to enforce his vendor's lien.
The survey made pursuant to the agreement showed that
there were within the exterior boundaries of the tracts conveyed 39,000 acres, but it is not claimed that payment is to
be made for more than 36,244 acres, the title having failed to
all the rest.
The suits pending at the time the sale was made involved the
title to 19,716 acres, but of this amount only 165 acres were in

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

the actual possession of any one adversely to Lewis. On the
24th of November, 1874, the reference which had been made
of the suits to arbitration, mentioned in the agreement, was
set aside by order of the court, on account of the failure of the
arbitrators to act. At the June term, 1875, of the court a special jury was summoned for the trial of the causes on the 22d
of the month, but, before that day arrived, the court adjourned
for the term. In January, 1876, one of the suits was tried, but
the jury failing to agree, the suits were all continued. On
the 30th Mlay, 1876, another agreement for submission to arbitration was entered into, and on the 24th August, 1876, an
award was filed, but for some reason it was not confirmed by
the court until December, 1877, when judgments were entered
in accordance with its requirements. On the 23d of January,
1880, the several plaintiffs in the ejectment suits applied to the
Court of Appeals of West Virginia for the allowance of writs
of error to review these judgments, but the applications were
all refused on that day.
There is in the record evidence of the recovery of a judgment, in the District Court of the United States for the District of West Virginia, by Coles P. Huntington, on the 13th
of October, 1875, against John Lewis Taylo'r, for the recovery
of the possession of four hundred acres of land. The judgment
was recovered by default, and it does not appear when the suit
was begun, or by what right Taylor was in possession. At
the next term of the court, Clarke & Norris appeared and
asked that the verdict and judgment be set aside, and a new
trial ordered. They alleged that the judgment might affect
their rights, and that they had no notice of the suit. This motion was taken under advisement by the court, but there is no
evidence showing what disposition has been made of it. The
court below deducted this recovery from the land to be paid
for, and rendered a decree upon the following basis:
35,575 acres.
Land to be paid for ..................
In litigation at the time of the sale ...... 19,716 acres.
As to the lands not in dispute, the decree was for the
contract price per acre, with interest from June 3d, 1873, to

BAINES v. CLARKE.
Opinion of the Court.

March 2d, 1881, deducting payments as they had been made.
As to the lands in dispute, it was for the agreed price, and interest from January 23d, 1880, the date of the refusal of the
Court of Appeals to allow the writs of error, until March 2d,
1881.
The difference between the 36,244 acres claimed by the appellant, and 35,775 allowed by the court, or 469 acres, arises
from the failure of the court to correct a former allowance of
200 acres for one of the parcels to which the title had failed,
when by actual survey since that time it has been found to
contain only 131 acres-a difference of 69 acres-and the deduction of the Huntington recovery of 400 acres from the
amount to be paid for.
The questions presented here are:
1. As to the error of 69 acres;
2. As to the deduction of 400 acres recovered by Huntington ; and
3. As to the time from which interest shall be charged on
the price of the lands in dispute when the sale was made.
As to the 69 acres, we think the claim of the appellant, the
representative of Lewis, is right. The report of the master
shows the facts, and it is evident that in the original interlocutory decree the amount was fixed by the deduction of an
estimated quantity contained in one of the disputed tracts,
and not by an actual survey. The survey having since been
made and the true quantity ascertained, the decree ought to
be made to conform to the actual facts.
As to the Huntington recovery of 400 acres, the testimony
is so meagre and indefinite that we are not inclined to disturb
the decree below. There has been a judgment for the recovery of the possession, and it was obtained at a time when
Lewis was in litigation about his titles. No notice of the suit
was ever served on Clarke & Norris. It does not appear that
Taylor was in possession through them, and, under the circumnstances of the case, Lewis was as much bound to defend as
they were.
As to the interest, we think the court was in error. The
master has found, and about this there is no dispute, that Lewis

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

was in actual possession of 34,267 acres. By this we suppose
is meant that to this extent the tract was not actually held adversely to Lewis by any one. Clearly, therefore, Clarke &
Norris could enter at any time. The principal pending litigation was against Lewis to get him out of possession, not by him
to get into possession. Of the remaining 1,977 acres, Lewis
had no title to 1,412 acres, and he was actually out of possession of 165. The Huntington 400 acres made up the rest. As
to the price of the acres to which Lewis had title, and of which
he was in possession, actual or constructive, we think he is entitled to interest on all deferred payments from June 3d, 1873.
As to all acres to be paid for which were held adversely, interest should be charged from the time of the judgments in the
ejectment suits upon the award of the arbitrators, which was
December 20th, 1877. As to the lands to which title was acquired after the conveyance, interest should only be calculated
from the date of the acquisition of title. No interest should be
calculated on the cash payment of $50,000 at the time of the
conveyance. This seems to us to be in accordance with the
true construction of the contract of purchase as it was reduced
to writing by the parties. We can take notice of no understandings prior to the writing as to what the contract was to
be. The conveyance was of all the lands inside the exterior
lines of the tracts to which Lewis had title, and for these five
dollars per acre was to be paid, with interest from June 3d,
1873, on the deferred payments. This language is plain and
unambiguous. The fact of adverse claims to portions of the
property was understood by all, and this condition of things
was specially provided for in the agreement of purchase. The
payments were to be at the rate of five dollars per acre for all
the land the title to which was eventually secured. Lewis was
to use due diligence in the prosecution of the suits so as to obtain a speedy trial. We find nothing in the record to show
that he was at fault in this particular. As the original arbitrators failed to perform their duties, that submission was set
aside. A trial to a jury was then had without any practical
result, when a new submission was agreed on, and an award
promptly obtained. There was some delay in securing final

BAINES v. CLARKE.
Opinion of the Court.

judgments upon this award, but we see no evidence of such
neglect' on the part of Lewis in this particular as amounts to a
breach of his contract. le certainly could not control the conduct of his adversaries in their applications for the allowance
of writs of error, and, therefore, is not chargeable with damages for the delay in that particular. lIe secured his judgments, and the Court of Appeals has refused to disturb them.
We come now to consider the effect of the last clause in the
agreement, which is in these words: " It is further understood
and agreed that the last payment or balance of $50,000, due
January 1st, 1877, and interest, is reserved until the decision of
said suits, and the ascertainment of quantity." This shows
that the parties were of opinion that the lands when surveyed,
and all the suits decided, would not fall more than 10,000 acres
short of the estimated quantity. It also shows that it was anticipated the suits might not all be decided until after January
1st, 1877, the date of the maturity of the last instalment, because the payment of that instalment, whatever should be its
amount, was postponed until the quantity was ascertained and
the suits decided. The only provision as to delay in securing
title was that the suits should be prosecuted with diligence, and
that the last instalment was not to be demanded until the
events had happened which were to settle finally its amount.
When paid, however, the last instalment was to carry interest
from the 3d of June, 1873, like all the rest. If it had appeared
that Lewis delayed unreasonably the prosecution of the suits,
or the ascertainment of the quantity, we might have stopped
the interest as compensation for his neglect in such particulars;
but the only delay in the prosecution of the suits which could
by any possibility be made the cause of complaint was that
between the filing of the awards and the judgments thereon.
On full consideration, however, we are of opinion that Lewis
ought not be made responsible for this. By a failure to serve
the necessary notices, the judgments were delayed one term of
the court. This appears to have been by accident rather than
design, and it was long after Clarke & Norris were in default
for a failure to perform their agreement.
In our opinion the decree should have been in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

appellant in accordance with the statement of account made by
the master numbered 22, save only that no interest should be
charged on $50,000 of the purchase-money represented by
what was accepted as the cash payment. By the express terms
of the agreement interest was only to be paid on the deferred
instalments.
Tle decree is reversed as to the amount found due, and qffinrmed in all other respects, and the cause is remanded, with
instructions to inodify the decree as originally entered by
inserting the amount ascertainedto be due on the priniple
of accounting as indicated in this opinion, andforfurther
proceedings according to law.

IARRINGTON & Another v. HOLLER.
IN

ERROR TO TIE SUPREME

COURT OF WASHINGTON

TERRITORY.

Submitted April 21st, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Practice.
A decision of the Supreme Court of a Territory dismissing a writ of error to a
District Court because of failure to docket the cause in time is not a final
judgment or decision within the meaning of the statutes regulating writs
of error and appeals to this court. Mandamus is the proper remedy in such
case.

This came up on motion to dismiss the writ of error.
Mr. JoAn 1. Mitchell for defendant in error moving.
Mr. S. S. Burdett for plaintiff in error opposing.
JUsTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is granted on the authority of Insurance Company
v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258, and Railroad Company v. lMiswall,
23 Wall. 507. An order of the Supreme Court of Washington
Territory dismissing a writ of error to a District Court, because
of the failure of the plaintiff in error to file the transcript and

Mu. CHIEF

