OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

One other assignment of error remains to be considered. It
relates to the admissions of the statements made by two witnesses of what passed between each other on the occasion of
their seeing and conversing with the deceased, within an hour
or two before he shot himself. They detailed what passed between them and the deceased, describing the latter's appearance
and condition as indicating, in their judgment, that he was not
in his right mind. As he left the presence of these witnesses,
one of them remarked to the other that " Pitkin is not himself; George looks kind of crazy." The other, in response,
expressed substantially, though in different language, his concurrence in that opinion. To the admission of this brief
conversation between the witnesses on the occasion referred to,
the defendant objected, but the objection was overruled, and
an exception taken. We do not think there was in this any
error to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the company.
The witnesses when under oath expressed the same opinion as to
the condition of the deceased. What passed between them at
the time to which their testimony referred was a part of what
occurred on the occasion when they saw the deceased, and may
well have been repeated to the jury, as showing that their
opinion as to the mental condition of the deceased was not then
presently formed, but was one formed at the very moment they
saw him, within a very few hours before his death.
Upon the whole case we perceive no error in the proceedings
of which plaintiff in error may complain, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted April 7th, 1884.-Decided May 5tb, 1884.

ConstitutionalLaw-ugitives from Justice-Conflict of Law.
An agent, appointed by the State in which a fugitive from justice stands
charged with crime, to receive such fugitive from the State by which he is
surrendered, is not an officer of the United States within the meaning of
former adjudications of this court.

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Statement of Facts.
Congress has not undertaken to invest the judicial tribunals of the United
States with exclusive jurisdiction of issuing writs of habeas corpus in proceedings for the arrests of fugitives from justice, and their delivery to the
authorities of the State in which they stand charged with crime.
Subject to the exclusive and paramount authority of the national government
by its own judicial tribunals to determine whether persons held in custody
by authority of the courts of the United States, or by commissioners of
such courts, or by officers of the general government acting under its laws,
are so held in conformity with law, the States have the right, by their own
courts, or by the judges thereof, to inquire into the grounds upon which
any person, within their respective territorial limits, is restrained of his
liberty, and to discharge him, if it be ascertained that such restraint is
illegal, and this notwithstanding such illegality may arise from a violation
of the Constitution and laws of the United States.

On the 20th day of November, 1883, one C. IT. ,ayley was
arrested in the city of San Francisco, California, and delivered
to W. L. Robb, who had been empowered by the Governor of
the State of Oregon to take and receive him from the proper
authorities of the State of California, and convey him to the
former State, to be there dealt with according to law.
The arrest and delivery were in pursuance of the warrant of
the Governor of California, as follows:
" STATE Or, CALIFORNIA,

Executive Departmnent.

"The people of the State of California to any sheriff, constable,
marshal, or policeman of this State, greeting:
"Whereas it has been represented to me by the Governor of the
State of Oregon that C. 1I. Bayley stands charged with the crime
of embezzlement, committed in the county of Clatsop, in said
State, and that he has fled from the justice of that State, and has
taken refuge in the State of California ; and the said Governor of
the State of Oregon having, in pursuance of the Constitution and
laws of the United States, demanded of me that I shall cause the
said C. II. Bayley to be arrested and delivered to W. L. Robb,
who is authorized to receive him into his custody and convey him
back to said State of Oregon ;
"And whereas the said representation and demand is accompanied by a certified copy of the information filed in the office of
the justice of the peace of the precinct of Astoria, Clatsop county,
State of Oregon, whereby the said C. II. Bayley stands charged
with said crime, and with having fled from said State and taken
voL. cxj-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

refuge in the State of California, which is certified by the Governor of the State of Oregon to be authentic :
"You are, therefore, required to arrest and secure the said C.
H. Bayley, wherever he may be found within this State, and to
deliver him into the custody of the said W. L. Robb, to be taken
back to the State from which he fled, pursuant to the said requisition, he, the said W. L. Robb, defraying all costs and expenses
incurred in the arrest and securing of said fugitive. You will
make return to this department of the manner in which this warrant has been executed.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the great seal of the State to be affixed, this, the twentieth day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-three.
"[SFL.]

"GEORE

STONEMAN,

"Governor of the State of California,
"By A. E. SHATTUCK, lDeputy.
"By the Governor :
"Taos. L. ThOMPSON, Secretary of State."
Bayley sued out a writ of 1habeas corvus from the judge of
the Superior Court for the City and County of San Francisco,
directed to Robb, and commanding him to have the body of
the petitioner before said judge, together with the time and
cause of his detention, &c. His application for the writ proceeded upon the ground that the imprisonment and detention
were illegal, in that "no copy of an indictment found or affidavit made, before a magistrate, charging petitioner with any
crime, was produced to the Governor of California," and consequently, that the warrant of arrest was issued without compliance with the act of Congress.
IRobb made return that he held Bayley " under the authority of the United States," as evidence whereof he produced a
copy of the warrant of the Governor of California, with his
commission from the Governor of Oregon, authorizing him to
take and receive the prisoner as a fugitive from justice. He
refused "to produce said C. IT. Bayley, on the ground that,
under the laws of the United States, he ought not to produce
said prisoner, because the honorable Superior Court has no

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Statement of Facts.

For this
power or authority to proceed in the premises."
refusal-the court finding that the body of the petitioner could
be produced-iRobb was adjudged guilty of contempt of court,
and by order of the judge he was arrested by the sheriff and
committed to jail until he "obeys said writ and produces the
body of the said C. I-. Bayley," or " until he be otherwise
legally discharged." He thereupon sued out a writ of /aecas
corpus from the Supreme Court of California. Ifis application
proceeded on the ground that Bayley was in his custody
"under and by virtue of the authority of the United States,
and that said Superior Court had no jurisdiction to proceed in
the premises," and " his [Robb's] imprisonment is contrary to
the laws of the United States and in excess of the jurisdiction
of said court." Upon hearing, the writ was dismissed, and
Robb remanded to the custody of the sheriff.
"It is no part of our duty," said the Supreme Court of
California, "to decide whether the authority under which
Robb holds the prisoner Bayley is sufficient or not. Neither
is it incumbent on us to decide whether Bayley is held under
the authority of the United States, and if so, how far it is
competent for the court below to inquire into the legality of
the proceedings under which he is held. Whether an affidavit
or indictment must accompany the requisition or not; whether
the recitals in the governor's warrant of arrest are conclusive
or simply _primafacie evidence of the facts they recite, all these
are matters for the consideration of the court issuing the writ
and before whom the prisoner is to be brought. The only
inquiry in this case relates to the power of the court below to
compel the J)roductionf qf the body of the prisoner before
it, so that the cause of his imprisonment and detention can be
inquired into, and on this point we have no doubt. It
was not the duty of the court issuing the writ, nor was it
obliged to accept as true, the return of the party. It was
within the jurisdiction of the court, at least, to inquire into the
facts of the case and the alleged cause of detention, and to
this end it was proper that the prisoner should be brought into
the presence of the court, in obedience to the command of the
writ, whereupon the prisoner would have had a right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

traverse the return. People v. DonohAue, 84 N. Y. 438; People
v. Brady, 56 Id. 182; Norris v. Newton, 5 McLean, 92; State
v. Selemn, 4 Harr. (Del.) 577. This the petitioner refused to
do, and by such refusal was guilty of a contempt of court."
From the judgment dismissing the writ and remanding Robb
to the custody of the sheriff, he prosecuted this writ of error.
Mlfr. ff. G. Sieberst and Mfr. Acfred Clarke, for plaintiff in
error.
_kr. A. C. Searle and Xr. E C. 2arhslal,Attorney-General
of California, for defendant in error.
Mu. JUsTMEc ITARILAN delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
For the purpose of giving effect to the sec6nd section of
article four of the Constitution of the United States, declaring
that "a person charged in any State with treason, felony, or
other crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in
another State, shall on the demand of the executive authority
of the State from which he fled, be delivered up to be removed
to the State having jurisdiction of the crime," Congress passed
the act of February 12th, 1793, in relation to fugitives from
justice. 1 Stat. 302. The provisions of its first and second
sections have been re-enacted in sections 5278 and 5279 of the
Revised Statutes, which are as follows:
"Se. 5278. Whenever the executive authority of any State
or Territory demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of
the executive authority of any State or Territory to which such
person has fled, and produces a copy of an indictment found
or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory,
charging the person demanded with having committed treason,
felony, or other crime certified as authentic by the governor or
chief magistrate of the State or Territory from whence the person so charged has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive authority of the State or Territory to which such person has fled
to cause him to be arrested and secured, and cause notice of the
arrest to be given to the executive authority making such demand
or to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the fugi-

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

tive, and to cause the fugitive to be delivered to such agent when
he shall appear. If no such agent appear, within six months from
the time of the arrest, the prisoner may be discharged. All costs
or expenses incurred in the apprehending, securing, and transmitting such fugitive to the State or Territory making such
demand, shall be paid by such State or Territory.
"SEC.
5279. Any agent so appointed who receives the

fugitive into his custody, shall be empowered to transport him
to the State or Territory from which he has fled. And every
person who, by force, sets at liberty or rescues the fugitive from
such agent while so transporting him, shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars or imprisoned not more than one year."
The penal code of California, in conformity with the constitution of that State, provides, in reference to the Superior
Court of the City and County of San Francisco, that "said
court and their judges, or any of them, shall have power to
issue writs of mandamus, certiorari,_prohibition, quo warranto,
and kabeas corpus, on petition by or on behalf of any person in
actual custody in their respective counties."
The authority and duty of the judge of that court to issue a
writ of hiabeas corp us upon 3ayley's application is not disputed
in argument. But the contention of the plaintiff in error is,
that in receiving and holding Bayley for the purpose of transporting him to Oregon he was, and is, acting under the authority and executing the power of the United States; and, therefore, that neither the Superior Court of San Francisco, nor one
of its judges, could legally compel him to produce the prisoner,
or commit him, as for contempt, for refusing to do so. If that
court was without jurisdiction, by reason of the paramount
authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
compel the plaintiff in error, in response to the writ of habeas
corpus, to produce the prisoner, then his committal for contempt was the denial of a right, privilege, and immunity secured by the supreme law of the laud. The claim by the
plaintiff in error that there was such a denial constitutes the
foundation of our jurisdiction.
It is contended that the principles announced in Ableman v.
Booth, and United States v. Booth, 21 how. 506, and in Tarble's

OCTOBER TERM, ]883.
Opinion of the Court.

Case, 13 Wall., 397, sustain the refusal of the plaintiff in error
to produce the prisoner. The soundness of this position will
be the subject of our first inquiry.
In Ablemam v. Booth, the general question was as to the authority of a justice of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, upon a
writ of habeas corpus, to compel the marshal of the United
States to produce the body of one, committed to his custody by
an order of a commissioner of a circuit court of the United
States, for failing to give bail for his appearance in the district
court of the United States for that State, to answer a charge of
having violated the provisions of the fugitive slave act of September 18th, 1850. In other words, a judge of the supreme court
of the State claimed and exercised the right to supervise and
annul the proceedings of that commissioner, and to discharge a
prisoner committed by him for an offence against the laws of
the general government. In U i/ed States v. Booth, the question was as to the authority of a justice of the supreme court of
the same State, upon a writ of haabeas corpus, to discharge one
in custody, under a judgment of the district court of the United
States, in which he had been indicted for an offence against the
laws of the United States, and by which he had been sentenced
to be imprisoned for one month, to pay a fine of $1,000 and
costs of prosecution, and to remain in custody until the sentence
was complied with. The authority claimed by the justice who
issued the writ and discharged the prisoner was affirmed by the
supreme court of the State, and hence, as was said, the State
court claimed and exercised jurisdiction over the proceedings
and judgment of a district court of the United States, and,
upon a summary and collateral proceeding, by habeas coilpus,
set aside and annulled its judgment, and discharged a prisoner
who had been tried and found guilty of an offence against the
laws of the United States, and sentenced to imprisonment by
the district court. 21 How. 513, 514.
It was held that no such paramount power existed in any
State, or her tribunals, since its existence was inconsistent with
the supremacy of the general government, as defined and
limited by the Constitution of the United States and the laws
made in pursuance thereof, and could not be recognized with-

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

out bringing within the control of the States the entire criminal
code of the United States, including all offences, from the highest to the lowest, involving imprisonment as a part of the punishment inflicted. While the sovereignty of the State within
its territorial limits to a certain extent was conceded, that sovereignty, the court adjudged, was so limited and restricted by
the supreme law of the land, that the sphere of action appropriated to the United States was as entirely beyond the reach
of the judicial process issued by a State judge or a State court, as
the proceedings in one of the States were beyond the reach of
the process of the judicial tribunals of another State.
"We do not question," said this court, "t h e authority of a
State court, or judge, who is authorized by the laws of the
State to issue the writ of habeas corpus, to issue it in any case
where the party is imprisoned within its territorial limits, provided it does not appear, when the application is made, that
the person imprisoned is in custody under the authority of the
United States. The court or judge has a right to inquire, in
this mode of proceeding, for what cause and by what authority
the prisoner is confined within the territorial limits of the State
sovereignty. And it is the duty of the marshal, or other person having the custody of the prisoner, to make known to the
judge or court, by a proper return, the authority by which he
holds him in custody. This right to inquire by process of
.4abeas corpus, and the duty of the officer to make a return,
grows, necessarily, out of the complex character of our governient, and the existence of two distinct and separate sovereignties within the same territorial space, each of them restricted
in its powers, and each, within its sphere of action prescribed
by the Constitution of the United States, independent of the
other. But, after the return is made, and the State judge or
court judicially apprized that the party is in custody under
the authority of the United States, they can proceed no further. They then know that the prisoner is within the dominion and jurisdiction of another government, and that neither
the writ of labeas corpus, nor any other process issued under
State authority, can pass over the line of division between the
two sovereignties. le is then within the dominion and exclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sive jurisdiction of the United States. If he has committed an
offence against their laws, their tribunals alone can punish him.
If he is wrongfully imprisoned, their judicial tribunals can release him and afford him redress. And although, as we have
said, it is the duty of the marshal, or other person holding him,
to make known, by a proper return, the authority under which
he detains him, it is at the same time imperatively his duty to
obey the process of the United States, to hold the prisoner in
custody under it, and to refuse obedience to the mandate or
process of any other government. And, consequently, it is his
duty not to take the prisoner, nor suffer him to be taken, before a State judge or court upon a habeas corj)l8 issued under
State authority. No State judge or court, after they are judicially informed that the party is imprisoned under the authority
of the United States, has any right to interfere with him, or to
require him to be brought before them. And if 'the authority
of a State, in the form of judicial process or otherwise, should
attempt to control the marshal or other authorized officer or
agent of the United States, in any respect, in the custody of
his prisoner, it would be his duty to resist it, and to call to his
aid any force that might be necessary to maintain the authority of law against illegal interference. No judicial process,
whatever form it may assume, can have any lawful authority
outside of the limits of the jurisdiction of the court or judge
by whom it is issued; and an attempt to enforce it beyond
these boundaries is nothing less than lawless violence." 21
How., 523.
Before considering the scope and effect of that decision, it is
proper to examine Tarble's case, 13 Wall. 397, which is, also,
relied on to support the proposition that the judge of the State
court was without jurisdiction to compel the plaintiff in error
to produce the body of the alleged fugitive from justice. In
that case the question was whether a judicial officer of a State,
or a commissioner of a State court, had jurisdiction, upon kabeas
corpus, to inquire into the validity of the enlistment of soldiers
in the military service of the United States, and to discharge
them from such service when, in his judgment, their enlistment
had not been made in conformity with law. "It is evident,"

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

said the court, "if such jurisdiction may be exercised by any
judicial officer of a State, it may be exercised by the court
commissioner within the county for which he is appointed; and
if it may be exercised with reference to soldiers detained in the
military service of the United States, whose enlistment is
alleged to have been illegally made, it may be exercised with
reference to persons employed in any other department of the
public service when their illegal detention is asserted. It may
be exercised in all cases where parties are held under the
authority of the United States, whenever the invalidity of the
exercise of that authority is affirmed. The jurisdiction, if it
exist at all, can only be limited in its application by the legislative power of the State. It may even reach to parties imprisoned under sentence of the National courts, after regular
indictment, trial and conviction, for offences against the laws
of the United States." 13 Wall., 402. The grounds of the decision in Ableman v. Booth and United States v. Booth were
fully examined, and the conclusion reached is indicated in the
following extract from the opinion: "State judges and State
courts, authorized by laws of their States to issue writs of
labeas eorups, have undoubtedly a right to issue the writ in
any case where a party is alleged to be illegally confined
within their limits, unless it appear, upon his application, that
he-is confined under the authority, or claim and color of the
authority, of the United States, by an officer of that government. If such fact appear upon the application the writ
should be refused. If it do not appear, the judge or court issuing the writ has a right to inquire into the cause of imprisonment, and ascertain by what authority the person is held within
the limits of the State; and it is the duty of the marshal, or
other officer having the custody of the person, to give, by a
proper return, information in this respect." 1b., 409. Alluding to the fact that the language used in Ableman v. Booth
and United States v. Boot1h had been construed by some as applying only to cases where a person is held in custody under the
undisputed lawful authority of the United States, as distinguished from his imprisonment under mere claim and color of
such authority, the court rejected any such limitation upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

decisions in those cases, and said: "All that is meant by the
language used is, that the State judge or State court should
proceed no further when it appears, from the application of
the party, or the return made, that the prisoner is held by an
officer of the United States under what, in truth, purports to
be the authority of the United States; that is, an authority,
the validity of which is to be determined by the Constitution
and laws of the United States. If a party thus held be illegally imprisoned, it is for the courts or judicial officers of the
United States, and those courts and officers alone, to grant him
release." lb., 411. It was adjudged that the State court commissioner was without jurisdiction to issue the writ for the discharge of the prisoner in that ease, because it appeared, upon
the application presented for the writ, that "the prisoner was
held by an officer of the United States, under claim and color
of the authority of the United States, as an enlisted soldier
mustered into the military service of the national government;
and the same information was imparted to the conmnissioner
by the return of the officer."
From this review of former decisions, it is clear that the question now presented has never been determined by this court. In
Ablemnan v. Booth, the prisoner, as we have seen, was held in custody by an officer of the United States, under a warrant of commitment from a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United
States, for an offence against the laws of the general government. In United States v. Booth, he was in custody in pursuance of a judgment of a court of the United States founded
upon an indictment, charging him with an offence against the
laws of the United States. In Tarble's case, the person whose
discharge was sought was held as an enlisted soldier of the
army, by an officer of that army acting directly under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
No such questions are here presented, unless it be, as claimed,
that the plaintiff in error is, within the principles of former
adjudications, an officer of the United States, wielding the
authority and executing the power of the nation. We are all
of opinion that he was not such an officer, but was and is
simply an agent of the State of Oregon, invested with authority

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

to receive, in her behalf, an alleged fugitive from the justice of
that State. By the very terms of the statute under which the
executive authority of Oregon demanded the arrest and surrender of the fugitive, he is described as the " agent of such
authority."
It is true that the executive authority of the
State in which the fugitive has taken refuge, is under a duty
imposed by the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
cause his surrender upon proper demand by the executive authority of the State from which lie has fled. It is equally true
that the authority of the agent of the demanding State to bring
the fugitive within its territorial limits, is expressly conferred
by the statutes of the United States, and, therefore, while so
transporting him, he is, in a certain sense, in the exercise of an
authority derived from the United States. But these circumstances do not constitute him an officer of the United States,
within the meaning of former decisions. le is not appointed
by the United States, and owes no duty to the national govermnent, for a violation of which he may be punished by its
tribunals or removed from office. His authority, in the first
instance, comes from the State in which the fugitive stands
charged with crime. Ile is, in every substantial sense, her
agent, as well in receiving custody of the fugitive, as in transporting him to the State under whose commission he is acting.
What he does, in execution of that authority, is to the end that
the violation of the laws of his State may be punished. The fugitive is arrested and transported for an offence against her laws,
not for an offence against the United States. The essential
difference, therefore, between the cases heretofore determined
and the present one is, that in the former, the judicial authorities of the State claimed and exercised the right, upon habeas
corpns, to release persons held in custody in pursuance of the
judgment of a court of the United States, or by order of a
Circuit Court commissioner, or by officers of the United States
in execution of their laws ; while, in the present case, time person who sued out the writ was in custody of an agent of
another State, charged with an offence against her laws.
Underlying the entire argument in behalf of the plaintiff in
error is the idea that the judicial tribunals of the States are ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

eluded altogether from the consideration and determination of
questions involving an authority, or a right, privilege, or immunity, derived from the Constitution and laws of the United
States. But this view is not sustained by the statutes defining
and regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States. In establishing those courts, Congress has taken care
not to exclude the jurisdiction of the State courts from every
case to which by the Constitution, the judicial power of the
United States extends. In the Judiciary Act of 1789 it is declared that the Circuit Courts of the United States shall have
original cognizance, " concurrent with the courts of the several
States," of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
equity, involving a certain amount, in which the United States
are plaintiffs or petitioners, or an alien is a party, or the suit is
between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a
citizen of another State. By section 711 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended by the act of February
18th, 1875, jurisdiction, exclusive of the courts of the several
States, is vested in the courts of the United States of all crimes
and offences cognizable under the authority of the Unitecl
States ; of all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under
their laws; of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; of seizures under the laws of the United States, on
land or on waters not within admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; of all cases arising under the patent-right or copyright
laws of the United States; of all matters and proceedings in
bankruptcy; and of all controversies of a civil nature, where a
State is a party, except between a State and its citizens, or between a State and citizen of other States, or aliens ; the jurisdiction of the States remaining unaffected in all other cases to
which the judicial power of the United States may be extended.
And by the act of March 3d, 1875, the original jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States is enlarged so as to
embrace all suits of a civil nature, at common law or equity,
involving a certain amount, arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority, or in which the United States are
plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there shall be a contro-

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

versy between citizens of different States, or a controversy
between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants
of different States, or a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens, or subjects. But it is expressly
declared that in such cases their jurisdiction is " concurrent
with the courts of the several States "-the jurisdiction of the
latter courts being, of course, subject to the right to remove
the suit into the proper court of the United States, at the time
and in the mode prescribed, and to the appellate power of this
court, as established and regulated by the Constitution and
laws of the United States. So, that a State court of original
jurisdiction, having the parties before it, may, consistently with
existing Federal legislation, determine cases at law or in equity,
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
involving rights dependent upon such Constitution or laws.
Upon the State courts, equally with the courts of the Union,
rests the obligation to guard, enforce, and protect every right
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States
and the laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those rights
are involved in any suit or proceeding before them; for the
judges of the State courts are required to take an oath to support that Constitution, and they are bound by it, and the laws
of the United States made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties
made under their authority, as the supreme law of the land,
" anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding." If they fail therein, and withhold or
deny rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States, the party aggrieved may
bring the case from the highest court of the State in which the
question could be decided to this court for final and conclusive
determination.
The recognition, therefore, of the authority of a State court,
or of one of its judges, upon writ of habecs corpus, to pass
upon the legality of the imprisonment, within the territory of
that State, of a person held in custody-otherwise than under
the judgment or orders of the judicial tribunals of the United
States, or by the order of a commissioner of a Circuit Court, or
by officers of the United States acting under their laws-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot be denied merely because the proceedings involve the
determination of rights, privileges, or immunities derived from
the nation, or require a construction of the Constitution and laws
of the United States. Congress has not undertaken to invest
the judicial tribunals of the United States with exclusive jurisdiction of issuing writs of ] abeas corpus in proceedings for the
arrest of fugitives from justice and their delivery to the authorities of the State in which they stand charged with crime.
When a demand has been made, in accordance with the Constitution of the United States, by the State from which the fugitive
has fled, upon the executive authority of the State in which lie
is found, that instrument, indeed, makes it the duty of the latter
to cause his arrest and surrender to the executive authority of
the demanding State, or to the agent of such authority. But
if it should appear, upon the face of the warrant issued for the
arrest of the fugitive, that such demand was not accompanied
or supported by a copy, certified to be authentic, of any indictment found against the accused, or of any affidavit made before
a magistrate of the demanding State, charging the commission
by him of some crime in the latter State, could it be claimed
that the arrest of the fugitive would be in pursuance of the
acts of Congress, or that the agent of the demanding State had
authority from the United States to receive and hold him to be
transported to that State?
This question could not be answered in the affirmative,
except upon the supposition, not to be indulged, that, so far as
the Constitution and the legislation of Congress are concerned,
the transporting of a person beyond the limits of the State in
which lie resides, or happens to be, to another State, depends
entirely upon the arbitrary will of the executive authorities of
the State demanding and of the State surrendering him.
Whether the warrant of arrest, issued by the Governor of
California for the arrest of Bayley, appeared, upon its face,
to be authorized and required by the act of Congress; that is,
whether, upon its face, a case was made behind which the State
courts or officers could not go, consistently with the Constitution and laws of the United States, are questions upon which
it is unnecessary to express an opinion. What we decide-and

ROBB v. CONNOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

the present case requires nothing more-is, that, so far as the
Constitution and laws of the United States are concerned, it
is competent for the courts of the State of California, or
for any of her judges - having power, under her laws, to
issue writs of habeas corpus, to determine, upon writ of habeas
co97y)us, whether the warrant of arrest and the delivery of
the fugitive to the agent of the State of Oregon, were in
conformity with the statutes of the United States; if so, to
remand him to the custody of the agent of Oregon. And,
since the alleged fugitive was not, at the time the writ in
question issued, in the custody of the United States, by any of
their tribunals or officers, the court or judge issuing it did not
violate any right, privilege, or immunity secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States in requiring the production of the body of the fugitive upon the hearing of the return
to the writ, to the end that he might be discharged if, upon
hearing, it was adjudged that his detention was unauthorized
by the act of Congress providing for the arrest and surrender
of fugitives from justice, or by the laws of the State in which
he was found. The writ was without value or effect unless the
body of the accused was produced. Subject, then, to the exclusive and paramount authority of the national government,
by its own judicial tribunals, to determine whether persons
held in custody by authority of the courts of the United
States, or by the commissioners of such courts, or by officers
of the general government, acting under its laws, are so held
in conformity with law, the States have the right, by their own
courts, or by the judges thereof, to inquire into the grounds
upon which any person, within their respective territorial
limits, is restrained of his liberty, and to discharge him, if it be
ascertained that such restraint is illegal; and this, notwithstanding such illegality may arise from a violation of the Constitution or the laws of the United States.
It is proper to say, that we have not overlooked the recent
elaborate opinion of the learned judge of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of California in In Re Robbi,
19 Fed. Rep., 26. But we have not been able to reach the
conclusion announced by him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

For the reasons we have stated, and without considering
other questions discussed by counsel, the judgment of the Supreme Court of California must be
4Alrned.

JOHNSON, Dative Testamentary Executor v. WATERS,
Administrator.
A-PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOI

TIE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 16th, 17th, 1883.-Decided May 5th,
1884.

Donation (inter vivos), (morris causd)-Efquity-,JTurisdiction-Paties-Pleading-Presription.
In Louisiana a donation to take effect at the death of the donor, so far as it is
gratuitous, is a donation mortis causa, which can be made only by will and
testament, or by an instrument clothed with the forms required for validity
as such, and clearly showing by its provisions that it is a disposition by
will.
In Louisiana a donation of land inter eivos, reserving the use to the donor
until his death, is void if made without consideration :-if made with a partial considerati6n, the value of the object given exceeding by one-half or
more that of the charges or services q*cere whether the gift will not be of
a mixed nature, one part sale and valid, and onepart donation and invalid.
A Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction in equity of proceedings
under a bill filed by a creditor of the estate of a deceased person to set aside
for fraud a sale of the real estate of the deceased which was made and confirmed by order of a State court having competent jurisdiction, when the
inquiry is not into irregularities of proceeding in the other court, but into
actual fraud in obtaining the judgment or decree of sale and confirmation.
A creditor of the estate of a deceased person may maintain an independent suit
in Equity to set aside for fraud a sale of real estate of the deceased made
under ordet of Court, though a party to the proceedings, if he was no party
to the fraud, and was ignorant of it until after confirmation or homologation
of the sale, and no question about it was before the court which confirmed
the sale and passed upon the executor's accounts.
In Louisiana the acknowledgment of a succession debt by an executor or administrator, and the ranking of it by the judge in the manner provided by
the Code of Practice, suspend the prescription.
A complaint which sets forth as cause of action a subject which is prescribed,
without setting forth the matter which takes it out of the prescription, may
be amended so as to set that matter forth, if the answer admits its truth.

