OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

government would grant them a title. As stated by counsel,
the position of the government upon that theory of the grant
is like that of a donor who has promised to one a gift of land
when he shall make a selection of it. In such case the gift is
executory until the selection is made; and until then the title
remains with the donor, whom the courts cannot compel to
make a conveyance. So upon that theory the act of 1860,
repealing the second section of the act of 1858, is not to be regarded as the revocation of a grant, but as a declaration that
the promised donation will not be made.
In any view, therefore, in which the case of the claimants is
examined, we find nothing to sustain their pretensions. They
have no title to the lands claimed under the grant in question,
beyond the depth of eighty arpents from the Mississippi River,
which the courts can recognize as a basis for action against
parties in possession, holding under sales from the government.
This result renders it unnecessary to notice other questions
which would arise for consideration were our conclusions
different.

Judgmens affirmed.

CORN EXCHANGE BANK v. SCIIEPPERS & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THIE UNITED STATES FOR TIE

EASTERN DISTRICT Or

PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued March 26th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Evidence-Promissory Note.
When in the course of dealings A gives to B one series of his own notes payable to his own order to be used for purchase of an article on his account ;
another series of like notes as accommodation paper to be protected by the
other party at maturity ; and a third series, part of which is accommodation paper and a part is issued for the purchase of the article, it is for the
jury to say, on a suit against A by a bank to which B had hypothecated
one of the third series as collateral, whether B had the right to pledge it
for his own debt.

The facts at issue appear in the opinion of the court.

CORN EXCHANGE BANK v. SCHEPPERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Air. X. I. Skarpless for appellant.

hXr. C. E Xlorgan, Jr., for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, brought its
suit against the defendants on five promissory notes held by the
bank, made by the defendants in their partnership name of
Scheppers Brothers, payable to their own order and indorseft
by them in blank.
Defendants pleaded non-assumpsit, and on trial by jury a verdiet and a judgment on it was rendered in favor of defendants.
A bill of exceptions was taken, on which arises the only
question in the ease for our consideration. From this it appears
that the notes sued on were the last of several renewals of two
notes of $5,000 each, which had been delivered by defendants
to the business firm of Benjamin Bullock's Sons, wool brokers,
and by them delivered to the bank. No question arises, as
these notes were negotiable, that if the bank received them, as
it alleges, as collateral security for a debt of Benjamin Bullock's
Sons to it, that plaintiff must recover in this action.
On the other hand, if the two notes were merely left in the
office of the bank for safe keeping, temporarily, as sworn to by
Joseph Bullock, a partner in the firm of Benjamin Bullock's
Sons, then plaintiff should not recover.
This was the only question finally submitted to the jury.
It appears by the bill of exceptions, and it is so stated in the
charge of the court to the jury, that the "testimony of Mr.
Bullock and Mr. Schetky (the cashier of the bank) is in direct
conflict, and the question involved in the case depends mainly
upon the credit which you shall attach to what the one or the
other of these witnesses says. The claim and right of the bank
as set up rests on a receipt of the notes from Joseph Bullock,
as collateral security for the $50,000 loan. Joseph Bullock
testifies that the bank did not so receive them, while Mr.
Schetky testifies that it did; which of these witnesses will you
believe?"
To aid the jury in the solution of this question, the judge, at

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

three different points in his charge, told them, without qualification, that Mr. Bullock had received these notes of defendants
to be used for the purchase of wool for them, and for no other
purpose, and that it would have been a breach of faith on his
part to use them as security for this loan. " Is it probable,"
he says, "that Mr. Bullock would voluntarily have made such
a disposition of collaterals for a debt already in existence,
especially as he would have to break his faith with Scheppers
brothers, by misapplying their property to his own use? I do
not (he says) suggest that it is or is not probable that he would
do this, but simply submit the consideration to you as one that
properly arises in passing upon the question involved."
The plaintiff excepted to this part of the charge, not on the
ground that if these notes were in the possession of Bullock,
with no other right than to use them for the benefit of defendants in purchasing wool, the inference suggested was not justified, but that the court erred in assuming the fact to be, that
the notes were held by Bullock for that purpose alone.
Whether the judge was correct in this assumption is mainly to
be ascertained from the written contract between defendants
and Bullock's Sons, and the language of certain receipts given
by the latter for notes received from Scheppers Brothers.
The first of these is as follows:
" IIILADEL InA, Xay 29, 1873.
"BENJAMIN BULLOCK'S SoNs, Philadelphia.
"Gentlemen: We wish you to purchase for us 300,000
pounds of fleece washed, tub washed, and unwashed wool in
Pennsylvania and Ohio at first cost, not exceeding 42 and a half
cents for washed wool and 30 cents for unwashed ; said wool
to be purchased with a specialty for the combing and delaine
qualities. It is distinctly understood you will charge, in addition to the above prices, a commission of two cents per pound,
which is the commission you pay your agents. We also agree
to pay freight, drayage, storage and insurance on same, and
allow you 5 per cent. commission on the actual cost of the
above wool. We will issue our notes from time to time, as you
may require, and at such dates as we can mutually agree on;
said paper to be converted into money for our account at the

CORN EXCHANGE BANK v. SCIIEPPERS.
Opinion of the Court.

market rate. We agree, should we desire to sell any portion
of the wool that is, clothing-we will allow you 5 per cent.
commission for selling, grading and guaranteeing the sale.
"(Signed)
ScHEPPERS BROTHERS."
" PHILADELPHIA, Xafa/j 29, 1873.

"The above order we accept, and shall endeavor to fill to the
best of our ability.
Very truly,
"BENJAMIN

BULLOOK'S SONS."

Another order of July the 3d, enlarged the amount of wool
to be purchased 500,000 pounds, making 800,000 pounds in all.
In the course of this business, and between May 29th and
August 1st, inclusive, many notes of defendants were delivered
to Bullock's Sons, and by them negotiated. Receipts were
given for these notes, which are produced, to the number of
six or seven. Some express on their face that the notes are
received for wool purchased. Others say on account of wool
purchased or to be purchased.
One, dated June 23d, acknowledges the receipt of 20 notes of
$5,000 each, amounting to $100,000, the concluding words of
which are: " These notes being issued for our benefit to be
protected by us at maturity. Benjamin Bullock's Sons."
It wasfully proved that these latter notes were understood
to be accommodation paper.
The last of these receipts-the one which embraces the two
notes in question-reads thus:
"Received, Philadelphia, August 1st, 1873, of Scheppers Brothers their 30 promissory notes, each for $5,000, maturing as follows: 1 January 2-5, 1 January 5-8, 1 January 7-10,1 January
14-17, 1 January 18-21, 1 January 21-24, 1 January 25-28, 2
January 28-31, 2 February 4-7, 2 February 8-11, 2 February
11-14, 3 February 15-118, 2 February 18-21, 3 February 22-25,
4 February 25-28, aggregating in amount $150,000 for purchase
of wool, or to be protected by us at maturity.
" BENJAMIN ]ULLOCI'S SONS."
We have, then, three classes of receipts given by Bullock's
Sons for notes received of Scheppers Brothers during this two
months' dealing. One class, the most numerous, expresses that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the notes were received for wool purchased or for wool to be
purchased, and having reference, no doubt, to the contract on
that subject. Another acknowledges the receipt of notes to
the amount of $100,000, to be used as accommodation paper,
to be protected at maturity by Bullock's Sons. The thirdthe one which was given for the two notes in question, and 28
others, which are said to be "for purchase of wool, or to be
protected by us (Bullock's Sons) at maturity."
We do not think, in the light of all the circumstances, and
the other receipts, and the admitted fact that Scheppers
Brothers had only a few weeks before issued them the accommodation notes for $100,000, this receipt can mean anything
but this: "So far as we use these notes for the purchase of
wool for Scheppers Brothers they will pay them at maturity,
and so far as we may use them for our own benefit as accommodation paper they are to be protected by us."
There is no inconsistency in the idea that Scheppers Brothers
so trusted them. They had done so to the extent of $100,000.
They were still buying wool for them under the contract. Of
this large sum of $150,000, Bullock's Sons could be trusted to
use some of the notes for their own benefit, on their promise to
protect the notes so used, while they would probably use some
of them, possibly all of them, in purchase of wool under the
contract, in which case Scheppers Brothers must pay them as
they matured. In no other way can any meaning be given to
the alternative words at the close of the receipt, "or to be proteeted by us at maturity."
This view is not varied by the oral testimony of two witnesses, who state that the notes in this receipt were given to be
used for the purchase of wool, as they understood it, but neither
of these is the person who signed the receipt, and neither of
them says that there was no permission to use some of the notes
for the accommodation of Bullock's Sons.
To say they were to be used for purchase of wool is to repeat
what the receipt says, and is in accord with it. To deny that
some of them might be used for the benefit of Bullock's Sons
is to contradict the receipt, and no one does deny it in express
terms.

QUINN v. CHAPMAN.
Opinion of the Court,

If, however, any witness had so sworn who was present when
the receipt was signed and the notes were delivered, it was a
question for the jury whether his statement or the writing produced was the most credible, and this question the judge took
from them by his peremptory instruction, three times repeated,
that there was no right in Bullock's Sons to pledge the notes
as collateral for their own debt, and to do so was to break faith
with Scheppers Brothers.
For this error, important in the narrow point in issue,
It/'ejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
remandedfor a new trial.

QUINN v. CHAPMAN.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 28th, 1884.-Decided April 21st, 1884.

Public Lands.
The facts in this case show no reason why the equitable claim of the plaintiff
in error to a tract of public land patented to the defendant should prevail
over the legal title.
A rule formerly prevailing in the Land Office forbidding the filing of a declaratory statement based upon an alleged right of pre-emption, having its
origin subsequent to the commencement of a contest between other parties
for the same land, is not ground for rejecting the claim if it is otherwise equitable.

3lTr. Barclay Jlenley for plaintiff in error.
Ir.

George A. 2ourse for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of California.
The foundation of the writ is, that that court, in a controversy which involved the ownership of land, decided, adversely
to plaintiff in error, a right or claim set up by him under the
laws of the United States concerning the sale and pre-emption
of public lands.
The facts on which this question arises are not much con-

