THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

529

Syllabus.

The other cases cited in behalf of the appellant are quite
unlike the case at bar.
In Barett v. Barrett,5 Oregon, 411, the suit was not to
assert a title in real estate, but to enforce, out of the land
fraudulently conveyed by the husband to his daughter, payment of the alimony awarded to this appellant by the California decree of divorce, which was held, in accordance with
the decisions of other courts, to be so far in the nature of a
debt, that the wife might sue the husband for it in another
State, and might contest the validity of a conveyance of property made by him with the fraudulent intent of preventing her
from recoverino the alimony. Barber v. Barber, 21 How.
582; ]iieermore v. Boutelle, 11 Gray, 217 ; Bouslough v. Bouslough, 68 Penn. St. 495.
In De Godcy v. De Godey, 39 California, 157, and in Il[etstone v. Coffey, 48 Texas, 269, the point decided was that land
acquired by the husband or the wife during the marriage, the
title in which by the local law vested in neither separately, but
in both in common, continued to belong to both after the divorce, and that a division thereof between them, if not made
by the decree of divorce, might be obtained by a subsequent
suit for partition in the State in which the divorce was granted
and the land was situated.
Judgment aflrmed.

THOMPSON & Another, Administrator, v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF TOLEDO.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURi'T OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OI[TO.
Submitted April 22d, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

Partne'ship-'rial--Excel)tions.
A person sued as a partner, and whose name is shown to have been signed by
another person to the articles of partnership, may prove that before the
articles were signed, or the partnership began business, he instructed that
person that he would not be a partner.
VOL. CXI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
An exception cannot bo sustained to the exclusion of evidence which is not
shown by the bill of exceptions to have been material.
A person who is not actually a partner, and who has no interest in the partnership, cannot, by reason of having held himself out to the world as a partner,
be held liable as such on a contract made by the partnership with one who
had no knowledge of the holding out.

This action was brought by the First National Bank of
Toledo, Ohio, a national banking association established at
Toledo, against William II. Standley, William II. Whiteside,
Josephus Atkinson, Edward R. Thompson and Joseph Uhl, as
partners in the business of private bankers at Logansport, Indiana, under the name of the People's Bank, upon a draft for
$5,000, drawn and accepted by the partnership on August
25th, 1877, payable in ninety days after date to the order of
the plaintiff's cashier, and taken by the plaintiff in renewal of a
like draft discounted by it for the partnership on May 5th,
1877.
Thompson filed a separate answer, denying that he was a
member of the partnership, or liable to the plaintiff on the draft
sued on. He died pending the suit, and it was revived against
his administrators.
Upon a trial by jury, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show that about April 10th, 1871, a partnership known
as the People's Bank was formed at Logansport, for the purpose of carrying on a private banking business there for one
year, and the articles of partnership were reduced to writing
and signed by Standley, Whiteside, Atkinson, Uhl and others
in their own names, and in Thompson's name by Whiteside,
who was his son-in-law and cashier of the partnership; that
none of the partners other than Thompson and Whiteside were
acquainted with the business of banking; that late in the
previous winter, or early in the spring, Thompson, who resided
at Delaware, Ohio, was at Logansport, engaged in promoting
the scheme of forming the partnership, and urged Uhl to take
stock in it to the amount of $2,000, and, for the purpose of inducing Uhl to do so, agreed himself to take an equal amount
of stock, and represented that he had had experience in such a
banking partnership, and that it was a money-making institu-

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

531

Statement of Facts.
tion, that he was worth about $75,000, and would make Uhl
safe if he would join them in forming the partnership, and that
he wished to establish it, and Whiteside was to be its cashier;
that Uhl, who was a man of means, then agreed to take the
same amount of stock as Thompson; that thereupon Thompson, in the presence of Uhl, Standley and others, authorized
Whiteside to sign his name to the partnership, and to act for
him in the organization of the bank; that the partnership entered upon the business of banking at Logansport with Whiteside as its cashier; and that about April 1st, 1872, some of the
partners sold out their interests to other members of the firm,
and new articles of partnership were executed, to which
Thompson's name was subscribed by Whiteside; but that
Thompson was not present, on either occasion, when his name
was subscribed to the articles.
The testimony introduced by the plaintiff also tended to
show that before the bank commenced business Whiteside
caused to be printed blank checks, certificates of deposit, and
advertising circulars, bearing the names of the partners, and of
Thompson as one of them, which were used in the business of
the bank; that from that time until 1876 advertisements were
published by Whiteside's direction in a newspaper of Logansport, stating that the partnership was engaged in the business
of banking, the names of the partners, and of Thompson as one
of them, and that all the persons so named were individually
liable for the debts of the partnership; that the fact that
Thompson was so advertised as a partner was brought to his
knowledge, and he admitted the truth of the published statement; that he at different times during this period, in conversation with the partners and with third persons, admitted that
he was a partner, and that he had received dividends upon his
shares in the partnership ; and on two or three occasions, when
in the banking house, was introduced as a director and stockholder in the partnership, and did not deny the fact; that the
partnership carried on the banking business at Logansport
under the same name from its original formation until August
25th, 1877, when it failed in business, and its assets passed into
the hands of a receiver, and that all its members except Uhl

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

and Thompson were insolvent; and that the plaintiff began to
do business with the partnership in October, 1873, and continned to do so until its failure.
The bill of exceptions, after stating the evidence introduced
by the plaintiff, added:
"But no testimony was given, showing that the plaintiff or
any of its officers had knowledge, during said period, as to the
persons who constituted said partnership, or of said advertisements published in the papers of Logansport as aforesaid, or of
the fact that the name of Thompson appeared upon said checks
and certificates of deposit, or in said circulars as aforesaid, as
one of said partners; or that the plaintiff or any of its officers,
servants or agents had knowledge of said conversations with
Thompson concerning his said alleged connection with said
firm, or of any of said alleged statements by him relative to
said matters; or that said Thompson had ever held himself
out to the plaintiff as a member of said firm."
The defendants introduced evidence tending to contradict
the evidence introduced by the plaintiff, and to show that,
although Thompson, before the partnership was formed, had
a conversation with those who afterwards became partners,
on the subject of forming a partnership for banking, he
never authorized Whiteside to sign his name to the partnership articles, or to act for him in the organization of the
bank, and never agreed to take stock in, or paid any money
into the partnership, or participated in its proceedings, or
received any dividends, or knew that his name was used in the
checks, certificates of deposit, circulars or advertisements of the
partnership; that his name nowhere appeared on the books of
the partnership, except on the stock book; that, after the
checks and certificates of deposit first printed had been used
up, new ones were printed on which his name did not appear,
and others on which none of the names of the partners appeared; that just before the partnership commenced business
Thompson received a letter from Whiteside, enclosing a form
of assignment from him to Whiteside of the stock in the partnership for which Whiteside had subscribed in Thompson's
name, and that Thompson, after adding the words, "which

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

533

Statement of Facts.
you took for me," signed the assignment, and enclosed it in a
letter to Whiteside, which Whiteside received, and shortly

afterwards posted in the stock book at the place where Thompson's name appeared;

and that Whiteside, when he signed

Thompson's name to the articles, expected that Thompson
would take the stock so subscribed for, and, upon his failure to
do so, procured the assignment aforesaid, and himself paid in
the capital which he had agreed that Thompson should pay in,
and himself received the dividends which would have gone to
Thompson.
The defendant offered to prove, by the testimony of Whiteside and his wife, that Thompson, after the time when the evidence for the plaintiff tended to show that he authorized
Whiteside to sign his name and to take stock for him as a
partner, and before any partnership articles were signed, or
the partnership commenced business, instructed Whiteside that
he would not become a partner therein. The defendants also
introduced evidence that Thompson's letter, enclosing the assignment aforesaid, had been lost after being received by
Whiteside, and offered to prove its contents. But the court
declined to permit the defendants to prove either of these matters, and excluded the testimony so offered, and the defendants
excepted to each of the rulings.
After the testimony had been closed, the defendants requested
the court to instruct the jury that '1 if they found from the
testimony that Thompson was not in fact a member of said
partnership, the plaintiff could not recover, unless it further
appeared from the testimony that Thompson had knowingly
permitted himself to be held out as a partner, and that the
plaintiff had knowledge thereof during its transactions with
said partnership."
The court refused to instruct the jury as requested; and instructed them that the first question for them to determine was
whether Thompson was a partner in the firm on August 25th,
1877, and if they found he was, they need not go further, but
might, upon that finding, return a verdict for the plaintiff;
and that, if they found he was not a partner, it was for them
to determine whether lie had held himself out, and permitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the officers of the bank to hold him out to the world as
a partner in the business; and upon this branch of the case instructed them, among other things, as follows:
"The defendants' counsel insist that no recovery can be had
on this ground, unless the plaintiff shows by the evidence upon
the trial of the cause that he gave credit to the bank, looking
to the defendant as a part of it; in other words, that the credit
was extended in part to the defendant Thompson. We entertain a different opinion. It is not necessary for the plaintiff
to show here that at the time it discounted the acceptance sued
on it especially relied upon the defendant Thompson for its
payment. If Thompson had held himself out to the world in
this public manner, through these advertisements and the other
means brought to your attention, as an interested party, as
liable for the obligations of the bank, the plaintiff is entitled
to the benefit of that fact, without showing that it knew that
Thompson was a partner in the bank, or without showing that
it specially gave credit to this particular defendant. This
publication is of such a character as to entitle the plaintiff to
rely upon it, without such proof as the defendants' counsel
insist ought to be made here; that is, that the plaintiff knew
of these advertisements, etc., and relied upon Thompson for
the payment of this debt."
"If he was not at any time a partner, but still permitted the
officers of said bank to hold him out by advertisements and
otherwise, as shown in the evidence, and permitted himself to
be introduced as a director and stockholder, as is shown by the
evidence, if he permitted that to be done, then, as between him
and third parties such as the plaintiff, he is estopped from denying his liability as a partner."
The jury returned a general verdict for the plaintiff, upon
which judgment was rendered.
The defendants, having
duly excepted to the refusal to instruct as requested, and to
each of the instructions above quoted, sued out this writ of
error.
The errors assigned were, 1st, the exclusion of the evidence
of Whiteside and wife; 2d, the exclusion of the evidence of
the contents of Thompson's letter to Whiteside; 3d, the refusal

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

535

Opinion of the Court.

to instruct the jury as requested; 4th, the instructions given
and excepted to.
.Mr. C. I. Scribner for plaintiff in error.
J r. E dward Bissell and Xifr. Wesley S. TIbuestin for defendant in error, claimed that if Thompson so conducted himself as to justify the belief in the community that he was a
partner, his estate was responsible for the partnership debts,
and cited Colyer on Partnership, § 86; Story on Partnership,
§§ 64, 65; Poillon v. Secor, 21 N. Y. 456; Kelly v. Scott, 49
N. Y. 595; 1 Green Ev., § 207; Young v. Axtell, cited in
Waugh v. Carver, 2 H. Bl. 235; Guidon v. Robinson, 2 Campbell, 304.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The plaintiff at the trial sought to charge Thompson with
liability as a partner upon two grounds: First, that he was
actually a partner. Second, that if not actually a partner he
had held himself out to the world as such. And the case was
submitted to the jury upon both grounds.
The first and second assignments of error relate to the exclusion of evidence offered by the defendants bearing upon the
first ground of action. The third and fourth assignments of
error relate to the instructions given and refused as to the
second ground of action.
The oral testimony offered by the defendants to prove that
Thompson, before the partnership articles were signed, and before the partnership began business, instructed Whiteside that
he would not become a partner therein, directly tended to
contradict the testimony introduced and relied on by the plaintiff to prove that Thompson was actually a partner, and was
erroneously excluded. The first assignment of error is therefore sustained.
From the connection in which the offer of evidence of the
contents of the letter from Thompson to Whiteside appears
in the bill of exceptions, it is quite possible that this evidence
was equally admissible for the same purpose. But the bill of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

exceptions is defective in not stating what the contents of the
letter were, and not showing that they were material, or that
the exclusion of the proof of them was prejudicial to the defendants. The second assignment of error therefore is not
sustained. Packet Company v. Clough, 20 Wall. 528; Railway Company v. Smith, 21 Wall. 255.
The remaining and the principal question in the case is,
whether the liability of Thompson, by reason of having held
himself out as a partner, was submitted to the jury under proper
instructions.
The court was requested to instruct the jury that if Thompson was not in fact a member of the partnership, the plaintiff
could not recover against him, unless it appeared from the testimony that he had knowingly permitted himself to be held out
as a partner, and that the plaintiff had knowledge thereof
during its transactions with the partnership. The court declined to give this instruction; and instead thereof instructed
the jury, in substance, that if Thompson permitted himself to
be held out to the world as a partner, by advertisements and
otherwise, as shown by the evidence, and to be introduced to
other persons as a partner, the plaintiff was entitled to the
benefit of the fact that he was so held out, and he was estopped
to deny his liability as a partner, although the plaintiff did not
know that he was so held out, and did not rely on him for the
payment of the plaintiffs debt, or give credit to him, in whole
or in part.
This court is of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in the
instructions to the jury, and in the refusal to give the instruction requested.
A person who is not in fact a partner, who has no interest
in the business of the partnership and does not share in its
profits, and is sought to be charged for its debts because of
having held himself out, or permitted himself to be held out, as
a partner, cannot be made liable upon contracts of the partnership except with those who have contracted with the partnership upon the faith of such holding out. In such a case, the
only ground of charging him as a partner is, that by his conduct in holding himself out as a partner he has induced persons

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

537

Opinion of the Court.

dealing with the partnership to believe him to be a partner,
and, by reason of such belief, to give credit to the partnership.
As his liability rests solely upon the ground that he cannot
be permitted to deny a participation which, though not existing in fact, he has asserted, or permitted to appear to exist,
there is no reason why a creditor of the partnership, who
has neither known of nor acted upon the assertion or permission, should hold as a partner one who never was in fact, and
whom he never understood or supposed to be, a partner, at the
time of dealing with and giving credit to the partnership.
There may be eases in which the holding out has been so
public and so long continued that the jury may infer that one
dealing with the partnership knew it and relied upon it, without
direct testimony to that effect. But the question whether the
plaintiff was induced to change bis position by acts done by the
defendant or by his authority is, as in other cases of estoppel in
pais, a question of fact for the jury, and not of law for the
court. The nature and amount of evidence requisite to satisfy
the jury may vary according to circumstances. But the rule of
law is always the same, that one who had no knowledge or
belief that the defendant was held out as a partner, and did
nothing on the faith of such a knowledge or belief, cannot charge
him with liability as a partner if he was not a partner in fact.
The whole foundation of the theory that a person who, not
being in fact a partner, has held himself out as a partner, may
be held liable as such to a creditor of the partnership who had
no kinowledge of the holding out, and who never gave credit
to him or to the partnership by reason of supposing him to be
a member of it, is a statement attributed to Lord Mansfield in
a note of a trial before him at niiPeriu8, in 1784, as cited by
counsel in a case in which it was sought to charge as a partner
one who had shared in the profits of a partnership. By so much
of that note as was thus cited, which is the only report of the
case that has come down to us, it would appear that in an action
by Young, a coal merchant, a'ainst Mrs. Axtell and another
person, to recover for coals sold and delivered, the plaintiff introduced evidence that Mrs. Axtell had lately carried on the
coal trade, and that the other defendant did the same under an

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement between them, by which she was to bring what customers she could into the business, and the other defendant
was to pay her an annuity, and also two shillings for every
chaldron that should be sold to those persons who had been
her customers or were of her recommending; and that bills
were made out in their joint names for goods sold to her customers; and that the jury found a verdict against Mrs. Axtell,
after being instructed by Lord Mansfield that "he should have
rather thought, on the agreement only, that Mrs. Axtell would
be liable, not on account of the annuity, but the other payment,
as that would be increased in proportion as she increased the
business. However, as she suffered her name to be used in
the business, and held herself out as a partner, she was certainly liable, though the plaintiff did not, at the time of dealing,
know that she was a partner, or that her name was used."
Young v. Axiell, at Guildhall Sittings after Hilary Termn, 24
Geo. III., cited in WTa ugh v. Carver, 2 I1. B1. 235, 242. But as
the case was not there cited upon the question of liability by
being held out as a partner, it is by no means certain that we
have a full and accurate report of what was said by Lord
Mansfield upon that question; still less that he intended to lay
down a general rule, including cases in which one, who in fact
had never taken any part in or received any profits from the
business, held himself out as partner.
In delivering the judgment of the Common Bench in IFauglt
v. Carver, Chief Justice Eyre said: "Now a case may be
stated, in which it is the clear sense of the parties to thc contract that they shall not be partners ; that A is to contribute
neither labor nor money, and, to go still farther, not to receive
any profits. But if he will lend his name as a partner, he becomes, as against all the rest of the world, a partner, not upon
the ground of the real transaction between them, but upon
principles of general policy, to prevent the frauds to which
creditors would be liable, if they were to suppose that they
lent their money upon the apparent credit of three or four
persons, when in fact they lent it only to two of them, to whom,
without the others, they would have lent nothing." 2 IT. El. 246.
This statement clearly shows that the reason and object of

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

539

Opinion of the Court.

the rule by which one who, having no interest in the partnership, holds himself out as a partner, is held liable as such, are
to prevent frauds upon those who lend their money upon the
apparent credit of all who are held out as partners; and the
later English authorities uniformly restrict accordingly the effect
of such holding out.
In iVe/lver v. Huimble, in the King's Bench in 1812, Lord
Ellenborough said: "A person may make himself liable as a
partner with others in two ways: either by a participation in
the loss or profits ; or in respect of his holding himself out to
the world as such, so as to induce others to give a credit on
that assurance." And Mr. Justice Bayley said: " To make
Humble liable, he must either have been a partner in fact in
the loss and profit of the ship, or he must have held himself out
to be such. Now here he was not in fact a partner, and the
goods were not furnished upon his credit, but upon the credit
of Holland and Williams." 16 East, 169, 174, 17.
In _Dickinson v. Valpy, in the same court in 1829, Mr. Justice
Parke (afterwards Baron Parke and Lord Wensleydale) said:
"If it could have been proved that the defendant had held
himself out to be a partner, not 'to the world,' for that is a
loose expression, but to the plaintiff himself, or under such
circumstances of publicity as to satisfy a jury that the plaintiff
knew of it and believed him to be a partner, he would be liable
to the plaintiff in all transactions in which he engaged and
gave credit to the defendant, upon the faith of his being such
partner. The defendant would be bound by an indirect representation to the plaintiff, arising from his conduct, as much as
if lie had stated to him directly and in express terms that he
was a partner, and the plaintiff had acted upon that statement." 10 B & C. 128, 140. And see Carter v. IFhalley, I
B. & A. 11.
In Ford v. Vt/itmarsli, in the Court of Exchequer in 1840,
a direction given by Baron Parke to the jury i'- substantially
the same terms was held by Lord Abinger, Baron Parke,
Baron Gurney and Baron Rolfe (afterwards Lord Cranworth)
to be a sound and proper direction; and Baron Parke, in explaining his ruling at the trial, said: "I told the jury that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant would be liable if the debt was contracted whilst he
was actually a partner, or upon a representation of himself as a
partner to the plaintiff, or upon such a public representation of
himself in that character as to lead the jury to conclude that
the plaintiff, knowing of that representation, and believing the
defendant to be a partner, gave him credit under that belief."
Hurlstone & Walmsley, 53, 55.
In ]Poll v. ]Elylon, in the Common Bench in 1846, which was
an action by bankers to recover a balance of account against
Eyton and Jones, on the ground that either they were actual
partners in the business carried on by Jones, or Eyton had by
his own permission been held out as a partner, Chief Justice
Tindal, delivering the judgment of. the court, said: "There
was no evidence to show that credit was in fact given to Eyton,
or that the bankers knew that his name was over the door of
the shop at Mostyn Quay, or that they supposed him to be a
partner. One person who had been manager, and another who
had been a clerk in the bank, were in court; and if they could
have given such evidence, they would no doubt have been
called as witnesses. We must assume, therefore, that credit
was given to Jones alone; and, if Eyton is to be made liable,
that must be on the ground of an actual partnership between
himself and Jones." 3 C. B. 32, 39. In Jfartyn v. Gray, in
the same court in 1863, Chief Justice Erle and Mr. Justice
Willes expressed similar opinions. 14 C. 3. (N. S.) 824-, 839,
843. The decision of the Court of Exchequer in Edmnundson
v. TAoinpson, in 1861, is to the like effect. 31 Law Journal
(N. S.) Ex. 207; S. C. 8 Jurist. (N. S.) 235.
Mr. Justice Lindley, in his Treatise on the Law of Partnership, sums up the law on this point as follows: " The doctrine that a person holding himself out as a partner and
thereby inducing others to act on the faith of his representations, is liable to them as if he were in fact a partner, is
nothing more than an illustration of the general principle of
estoppel by conduct." " The expression in TVdiuy/ v. (Oarver,
' if be will lend his name as a partner lie becomes as against all
the rest of the world a partner,' requires qualification ; for the
real ground on which liability is incurred by holding oneself

THOMPSON v. FIRST NAT. BANK OF TOLEDO.

541

Opinion of the Court.

out as a partner is, that credit has been thereby obtained.
This was put with great clearness by Mr. Justice Parke in
Diclkn8on v. Valpy." " No person can be fixed with liability
on the ground that he has been held out as a partner, unless
two things concur, viz.: first, the alleged act of holding out must
have been done either by him or by his consent, and, secondly,
it must have been known to the person seeking to avail himself of it. In the absence of the first of these requisites, whatever may have been done cannot be imputed to the person
souoht to be made liable; and in the absence of the second, the
person seeking to make him liable has not in any way been misled." Lindley on Partnership (1st ed.) 45-47; (4th ed.) 48-50.
The current of authority in this country is in the same direetion. Beiedict v. Davis, 2 McLean, 347; leks v. Cram, 17
Vermont, 449; FIile v. ]Jlarringlon, 13 Gray, 469; JTood v.
Pennell, 51 Maine, 52; Sherrod v. Langdon, 21 Iowa, 518;
Eirk v. Iartman, 63 Penn. St. 97; JIefer v. Palmer, 67 Illinois, 161 ; Cook v. Penr/hyq? Slate Co., 36 Ohio St. 135 ; Uhl
v. Ihtrvey, 78 Indiana, 26. The only American case, cited at
the bar, which tends to support the ruling below, is the decision
of the Commission of Appeals in Poillon,v. Secor, 61 N. Y.
456. And the judgment of the Court of Appeals in the later
case of Central City Savings Bank v. JTalkcr, 66 N. Y. 424,
clearly implies that in the opinion of that court a person not
in fact a partner cannot be made liable to third persons on
the ground of having been held out as a partner, except upon
the principle of equitable estoppel, that he authorized himself
to be so held out, and that the plaintiffs gave credit to him.
The result is that, both upon principle and upon authority,
the third and fourth assignments of error, as well as the first,
must be sustained, the judgment of the Circuit Court reversed,
and the case remanded to that court with directions to order a
New trial.

