OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

BUTCHERS' UNION SLAUGHTER-HOUSE AND LIVESTOCK LANDING COMPANY v. CRESCENT CITY
LIVE-STOCK LANDING AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 9th, 10th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.

ConstitutionalLaw.
The power of a State Legislature to make a contract of such a character that,
under the provisions of the Constitution, it cannot be modified or abrogated, does not extend to subjects affecting public health or public morals,
so as to limit the future exercise of legislative power on those subjects to
the prejudice of the general welfare.

In 1879 the legislature of Louisiana granted the appellee
exclusive privileges for stock-landing and slaughter-houses,
at New Orleans for twenty-fi ve years, which were sustained by
this court in the Slaug/lher-ifouse Ca8es, 16 Wall. 36. In 1881,
under a provision of the State Constitution of 1874, the municipal authorities granted privileges for slaughter-houses and
stock-landing at New Orleans to the appellants. The appellee
as plaintiff below filed its bill in the Circuit Court to restrain
the appellants from exercising the privileges thus conferred. A
preliminary injunction was granted, which, on hearing, was
made perpetual. From this decree the defendants below appealed. The legislation and other facts bearing upon the issues
are stated in the opinion of the court.
,b.

B.

. Iorman for appellant.

-Mr. T/wmas J Seinmes for appellee.
MuR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana.
The appellee brought a suit in the Circuit Court to obtain an
injunction against the appellant forbidding the latter from ex-

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO.

47

Opinion of the Court.

ereising the business of butchering, or receiving and landing
live-stock intended for butchering, within certain limits in the
parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard, and obtained
such injunction by a final decree in that court.
The ground on which this suit was brought and sustained is
that the plaintiffs had the exclusive right to have all such stock
landed at their stock-landing place, and butchered at their
slaughter-house, by virtue of an act of the General Assembly
An act to proof Louisiana, approved March 8th, 1869, entitled '.t
tect the health of the city of New Orleans, to locate the stocklanding and slaughter-houses, and to incorporate the Crescent
City Live-Stock Lauding and Slaughter-House Company."
An examination of that statute, especially of its fourth and
fifth sections, leaves no doubt that it did grant such an exclusive right.
The fact that it did so, and that this was conceded, was the
basis of the contest in this court in the Slaugdhter-Ilouse Cases,
16 Wall. 36, in which the law was assailed as a monopoly forbidden by the thirteenth and fourteenth amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, and these amendments as
well as the fifteenth, came for the first time before this court
for construction. The constitutional power of the State to
enact the statute was upheld by this court.
This power was placed by the court in that case expressly on
the ground that it was the exercise of the police power which
had remained with the States in the formation of the original
Constitution of the United States, and had not been taken away
by the amendments adopted since.
Citing the definition of this power from Chancellor Kent, it
declares that the statute in question came within it. " Unwholesome trades, slaughter-houses, operations offensive to the
senses, the deposit of powder, the application of steani power
to propel cars, the building with combustible materials, and
the burial of the dead, may all (he says) be interdicted by law
in the midst of dense masses of population, on the general and
rational principle that every person ought so to use his property
as not to injure his neighbors ; and that private interests must
be made subservient to the general interest of the community."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Kent's Commentaries, 340; 16 Wall. 62. In this latter
case it was added that "the regulation of the place and manner of conducting the slaughtering of animals, and the business
of butchering within a city, and the inspection of the animals
to be killed for meat, and of the meat afterwards, are among
the most necessary and frequent exercises of this power."
But in the year 1879 the State of Louisiana adopted a new
constitution, in which were the following articles:
"Article 248. The police juries of the several parishes, and the
constituted authorities of all incorporated municipalities of the
State, shall alone have the power of regulating the slaughtering
of cattle and other live-stock within their respective limits ; provided no monopoly or exclusive privilege shall exist in this State,
nor such business be restricted to the land or houses of any individual or corporation; provided the ordinances designating
places for slaughtering shall obtain the concurrent approval of the
board of health or! other sanitary organization.
"Article 258. . . . The monopoly features in the charter
of any corporation now existing in the State, save such as may
be contained in the charters of railroad companies, are hereby
abolished."
Under the authority of these articles of the Constitution the
municipal authorities of the city of New Orleans enacted ordinances which opened to general competition the right to build
slaughter-houses, establish stock landings, and engage in the
business of butchering in that city under regulations established
by those ordinances, but which were in utter disregard of the
monopoly granted to the Crescent City Company, and which
in effect repealed the exclusive grant made to that company by
the act of 1869.
The appellant here, the Butchers' Union Slaughter-House
Company, availing themselves of this repeal, entered upon the
business, or were about to do so, by establishing their slaughterhouse and stock-landing within the limits of the grant of the
act of 1869 to the Crescent City Company.
Both these corporations, organized under the laws of Louisiana and doing business in that State, were citizens of the same

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 749
Opinion of the Court.

State, and could not, in respect of that citizenship, sue each
other in a court of the United States.
The Crescent City Company, however, on the allegation that
these constitutional provisions of 1879 and the subsequent ordinances of the city, were a violation of their contract with the
State under the act of 1869, brought this suit in the Circuit
Court as arising under the Constitution of the United States,
art. I., sec. 10. That court sustained the view of the plaintiff
below, and held that the act of 1869 and the acceptance of it
by the Crescent City Company, constituted a contract for the
exclusive right mentioned in it for twenty-five years ; that it
was within the power of the legislature of Louisiana to make
that contract, and as the constitutional provisions of 1879 and
the subsequent ordinances of the city impaired its obligation,
they were to that extent void.
No one can examine the provisions of the act of 1869 with
the knowledge that they were accepted by the Crescent City
Company, and so far acted on that a very large amount of
money was expended in a vast slaughter-house, and an equally
extensive stock-yard and landing-place, and hesitate to pronounce that in form they have all the elements of a contract on
sufficient consideration.
It admits of as little doubt that the ordinance of the city of
New Orleans, under the new Constitution, impaired the supposed obligation imposed by those provisions on the State, by
taking away the exclusive right of the company granted to it
for twenty-five years, which was to the company the most valuable thing supposed to be secured to it by the statutory contract.
We do not think it necessary to spend time in demonstrating
either of these propositions. We do not believe they will be
controverted.
The appellant, however, insists that, so far as the act of 1869
partakes of the nature of an irrepealable contract, the legislature exceeded its authority, and it had no power to tie the
hands of the legislature in the future from legislating on that
subject without being bound by the terms of the statute then
enacted. This proposition presents the real point in the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Let us see clearly what it is.
It does not deny the power of that legislature to create a
corporation, with power to do the business of landing live-stock
and providing a place for slaughtering them in the city. It
does not deny the power to locate the place where this shall be
done exclusively. It does not deny even the power to give an
exclusive right, for the time being, to particular persons or to a
corporation to provide this stock-landing and to establish this
slaughter-house.
But it does deny the power of that legislature to continue
this right so that no future legislature nor even the same body
can repeal or modify it, or grant similar privileges to others.
It concedes that such a law, so long as it remains on the statute
book as the latest expression of the legislative will, is a valid
law, and must be obeyed, which is all that was decided by this
court in the Slaughter-House Cases. But it asserts the right of
the legislature to repeal such a statute, or to make a new one
inconsistent with it, whenever, in the wisdom of such legislature, it is for the good of the public it should be done.
Nor does this proposition contravene the established principle that the legislature of a State may make contracts on many
subjects which will bind it, and will bind succeeding legislatures for the time the contract has to run, so that its provisions
can neither be repealed nor its obligation impaired. The
examples are numerous where this has been done and the contract upheld.
The denial of this power, in the present instance, rests upon
the ground that the power of the legislature intended to be
suspended is one so indispensable to the public welfare that it
cannot be bargained away by contract. It is that well-known
but undefined power called the police power. We have not
found a better definition of it for our present purpose than the
extract from Kent's Commentaries in the earlier part of this
opinion. "The power to regulate unwholesome trades, slaughter-houses, operations offensive to the senses," there mentioned,
points unmistakably to the powers exercised by the act of 1869,
and the ordinances of the city under the Constitution of 1879.
While we are not prepared to say that the legislature can make

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 751
Opinion of the Court.

valid contracts on no subject embraced in the largest definition
of the police power, we think that, in regard to two subjects
so embraced, it cannot, by any contract, limit tbe exercise of
those powers to the prejudice of the general welware. These
are the 1 ubic 4eaUAt and _public qnoral. The preservation of
these is so necessary to the best interests of social organization
that a wise policy forbids the legislative body to divest itself of
the power to enact laws for the preservation of health and the
repression of crime.
It cannot be permitted that, when the Constitution of a
State, the fundamental law of the land, has imposed upon its
legislature the duty of guarding, by suitable laws, the health
of its citizens, especially in crowded cities, and the protection
of their person and property by suppressing and preventing
crime, that the power which enables it to perform this duty
can be sold, bargained away, under any circumstances, as if it
were a mere privilege which the legislator could dispose of at
his pleasure.
This principle has been asserted and repeated in this court
in the last few years in no ambiguous terms.
The first time it seems to have been distinctly and clearly
presented, was in the case of Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645.
That was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
brought by Boyd, who had been convicted in the courts of that
State of carrying on a lottery contrary to law. In his defence,
he relied upon a statute which authorized lotteries for a specific purpose, under which he held a license. The repeal of this
statute, which made his license of no avail against the general
law forbidding lotteries, was asserted by his counsel to be void
as impairing the obligation of the contract, of which his license
was evidence, and the Supreme Court of Alabama had in a
previous case held it to be a contract.
In Boyd's case, however, that court held the law under which
his license was issued to be void, because the object of it was
not expressed in the title, as required by the Constitution of the
State. This court followed that decision, and affirmed the
judgment on that ground.
But in the concluding sentences of the opinion by Mr. Jus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tice Field, the court, to repel the inference that the contract
would have been irrepealable, if the statute had conformed to
the special requirement of the Constitution, said:
"We are not prepared to admit that it is competent for one
legislature, by any contract with an individual, to restrain the
power of a subsequent legislature to legislate for the public
welfare, and to that end to suppress any and all practices tending to corrupt the public morals," citing Moore v. TLte State,
48 Miss. 147, and Metropolitan Board of -xcise v. Barrie,34
N. Y. 657, 663.
This cautionary declaration received the unanimous concurrence of the court, and a year later the principle became the
foundation of the decision in the case of Te Beer Company v.
ilassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, 28.
In that case the plaintiff in error, the Boston Beer Company,
had been chartered in 1828 with a right to manufacture beer,
which this court held to imply the right to sell it. Subsequent
statutes of a prohibitory character seemed to interfere with
this right, and the case was brought to this court on the
ground that they impaired the obligation of the contract of
the charter.
But the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, held that,
on this subject, the Legislature of Massachusetts could make no
irrepealable contract. "Whatever differences of opinion," said
the court, "may exist as to the extent and boundaries of the
police power, and however difficult it may be to render a satisfactory definition of it, there seems to be no doubt that it does
extend to the protection of the lives, health, and property of
the citizens, and to the preservation of good order and public
morals. The Legislature cannot by any contract divest itself
of the power to provide for these objects. They belong emphatically to that class of objects which demand the application of the maxim, Salus pop uli suprema lex, and they are to
be attained and provided for by such appropriate means as the
legislative discretion may devise.
That discretion can no
more be bargained away than the power itself."
In the still more recent case of Stone v. Misissippi, 101
U. S.814, the whole subject is reviewed in the opinion deliv-

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 753
Opinion of the Court.

ered by the Chief Justice. That also was a case of a chartered lottery, whose charter was repealed by a constitution of
the State subsequently adopted. It came here for relief, relying on the clause of the federal Constitution against impairing
the obligation of contracts.
"The question is, therefore, presented (says the opinion),
whether, in view of these facts, the legislature of a State
can, by the charter of a lottery company, defeat the will of a
people authoritatively expressed, in relation to the further continuance of such business in their midst. We think it cannot.
No legislature can bargain away the public health or the public morals. The people themselves cannot do it, much less
their servants. The supervision of both these subjects of
governmental power is continuing in its nature, and they are
to be dealt with as the special exigencies of the moment may
require. Government is organized with a view to their preservation, and cannot divest itself of the power to provide for
them. For this purpose the legislative discretion is allowed,
and the discretion cannot be parted with any more than the
power itself."
But the case of the Fertilizing Company v. IHyde Park, 97
U. S. 659, is, perhaps, more directly in point as regard the facts
of the case, while asserting the same principle. The Fertilizing Company was chartered by the Illinois Legislature for the
purpose of converting, by chemical processes, the dead animal
matter of the slaughter-houses of the city of Chicago into a
fertilizing material. Some ordinances of the village of Hyde
Park, through which this dead matter was carried to their
chemical works, were supposed to impair the rights of contract
conferred by the charter. The opinion cites the language of
the court in Beer om7pany v. Ma8sacusefts, already copied
here, and numerous other cases of the exercise of the police
power in protecting health and property, and holds that the
charter conferred no irrepealable right for the fifty years of its
duration to continue a practice injurious to the public health.
These cases are all cited and their views adopted in the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in a suit between
the same parties in regard to the same matter as the present
voL. cxi-48

OCTOBER TERMV,

1883.

Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

case, and which was brought to this court by writ of error and
dismissed before a hearing by the present appellee.
The result of these considerations is that the constitution of
1879 and the ordinances of the city of New Orleans, which
are complained of, are not void as impairing the obligation of
complainant's contract, and that
Tie decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case
remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the bill.
concurring.
I concur in the doctrine declared in the opinion of the court,
that the legislature cannot, by contract with an individual or
corporation, restrain, diminish, or surrender its power to enact
laws for the preservation of the public health or the protection
of the public morals. This is a principle of vital importance,
and its habitual observance is essential to the wise and valid
execution of the trust committed to the legislature. But there
are some provisions in the act of Louisiana upon which the
appellees rely that have not been referred to, and which, from
the interest excited by the decision rendered when that act
was before us in the Slaughter-House Cases, should be mentioned in connection with the views now expressed. 16 Wall.
36.
No one of the judges who then disagreed with the majority
of the court denied that the States possessed the fullest power
ever claimed by the most earnest advocate of their reserved
rights, to prescribe regulations affecting the health, the good
order, the morals, the peace, and the safety of society within
their respective limits. When such regulations do not conflict
with any constitutional inhibition or natural right, their validity cannot be successfully controverted. The general government was not formed to interfere with or control them. No
aid was required from any external authority for their enforcement. It was only for matters which concerned all the States
and which could not be efficiently or advantageously managed
by them separately, that a general and common government
was desired. And the recent amendments to the Constitution
have not changed nor diminished their previously existing
MR. JUSTIcE FIELD

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 755
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

power to legislate respecting the public health and public
morals. But though this power rests with them, it cannot be
admitted that, under the pretence of providing for the public
health or public morals, they can encroach upon rights which
those amendments declare shall not be impaired. The act of
Louisiana required that the slaughtering of cattle and the
preparation of animal food for market should be done outside
of the limits of the city of New Orleans. It was competent to
make this requirement, and, furthermore, to direct that the
animals, before being slaughtered, should be inspected, in order
to determine whether they were in a fit condition to be prepared for food. The dissenting judges in the Slaughter-House
Cases found no fault with these provisions, but, on the contrary, approved of them. I-ad the act been limited to them,
there would have been no dissent from the opinion of the
majority. But it went a great way beyond them. It created
a corporation, and gave to it an exclusive right for twenty-five
years to keep, within an area of 1,145 square miles, a place
where alone animals intended for slaughter could be landed
and sheltered, and where alone they could be slaughtered and
their meat prepared for market. It is difficult to understand
how in a district embracing a population of a quarter of a million, any conditions of health can require that the preparation
of animal food should be intrusted to a single corporation for
twenty-five years, or how in a district of such extent, there can
be only on e place in which animals can, with safety to the
public health, be sheltered and slaughtered. In the grant of
these exclusive privileges a monopoly of an ordinary employment and business was created.
A monopoly is defined "to be an institution or allowance
from the sovereign power of the State, by grant, commission,
or otherwise, to any person or corporation, for the sole buying,
selling, making, working, or using of anything whereby any
person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, are sought to be
restrained of any freedom or liberty they had before, or hindered in their lawful trade." All grants of this kind are void
at common law, because they destroy the freedom of trade,
discourage labor and industry, restrain persons from getting an

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

honest livelihood, and put it in the power of the grantees to enhance the price of commodities. They are void because they
interfere with the liberty of the individual to pursue a lawful
trade or employment.
The oppressive nature of the principle upon which the monopoly here was granted will more clearly appear if it be applied to other vocations than that of keeping cattle and of preparing animal food for market-to the ordinary trades and
callings of life-to the making of bread, the raising of vegetables, the manufacture of shoes and hats, and other articles of
daily use. The granting of an exclusive right to engage in
such vocations would be repudiated in all communities as an
invasion of common right. The State undoubtedly may require
many kinds of business to be carried on beyond the thickly
settled portions of a city, or even entirely without its limits,
especially when attendant odors or noises affect the health or
disturb the peace of the neighborhood; but the exercise of this
necessary power does not warrant granting to a particular class
or to a corporation a monopoly of the business thus removed.
It may be that, for the health or safety of a city, the manufacture of beer, or soap, or the smelting of ores, or the casting of
machinery should be carried on without its limits, yet it would
hardly be contended that the power thus to remove the business beyond certain limits would authorize the granting of a
monopoly of it to any one or more persons. And if not a monopoly in business of this character, bow can a monopoly for
like reasons be granted in the business of preparing animal
food for market, or of yarding and sheltering cattle intended
for slaughter?
As in our intercourse with our fellow-men certain principles
of morality are assumed to exist, without which society would
be impossible, so certain inherent rights lie at the foundation
of all action, and upon a recognition of them alone can free institutions be maintained. These inherent rights have never
been more happily expressed than in the Declaration of Independence, that new evangel of liberty to the people : "We hold
these truths to be self-evident "-that is so plain that their truth
is recognized upon their mere statement-" that all men are

BUTCIIERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 757
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

endowed "-not by edicts of Emperors, or decrees of Parliament, or acts of Congress, but " by their Creator with certain
inalienable rights "-that is, rights which cannot be bartered
away, or given away, or taken away except in punishment of
crime-" and that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and to secure these "-not grant them but
secure them-" governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed."
Among these inalienable rights, as proclaimed in that great
docmnent, is the right of men to pursue their happiness, by
which is meant the right to pursue any lawful business or vocation, in any manner not inconsistent with the equal rights of
others, which may increase their prosperity or develop their
faculties, so as to give to them their highest enjoyment.
The common business and callings of life, the ordinary
trades and pursuits, which are innocuous in themselves, and
have been followed in all communities from time immemorial,
must, therefore, be free in this country to all alike upon the
,same conditions. The right to pursue them, without let or
hindrance, except that which is applied to all persons of the
same age, sex, and condition, is a distinguishing privilege of
citizens of the United States, and an essential element of that
freedom which they claim as their birthright.
It has been well said that, " The property which every man
has in his own labor, as it is the original foundation of all
other property, so it is the most sacred and inviolable. The
patrimony of the poor man lies in the strength and dexterity
of his own hands, and to hinder his employing this strength
and dexterity in what manner he thinks proper, without injury
to his neighbor, is a plain violation of this most sacred property. It is a manifest encroachment upon the just liberty both
of the workman and of those who might be disposed to employ
him. As it hinders the one from working at what he thinks
proper, so it hinders the others from employing whom they
think proper."
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, Bk. I.
Chap. 10.
In this country it has seldom been held, and never in so
odious a form as is here claimed, that an entire trade and busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

ness could be taken from citizens and vested in a single corporation. Such legislation has been regarded everywhere else as
inconsistent with civil liberty. That exists only where every
individual has the power to pursue his own happiness according
to his own views, unrestrained, except by equal, just, and impartial laws. The act of Louisiana compelled more than a
thousand persons to abandon their regular business, and to surrender it to a corporation to which was given an exclusive
right to pursue it for twenty-five years. What was lawful to
these thousand persons the day before the law took effect was
unlawful the day afterwards. With what intense indignation
would a law be regarded that should, in like manner, turn over
the common trades of the community to a single corporation.
I cannot believe that what is termed in the Declaration of Independence a God-given and an inalienable right can be thus
ruthlessly taken from the citizen, or that there can be any
abridgment of that right except by regulations alike affecting
all persons of the same age, sex, and condition. It cannot be
that a State may limit to a specified number of its people the,
right to practise law, the right to practise medicine, the right
to preach the gospel, the right to till the soil, or to pursue particular business or trades, and thus parcel out to different parties
the various vocations and callings of life. The first section of
the Fourteenth Amendment was, among other things, designed
to prevent all discriminating legislation for the benefit of some
to the disparagement of others, and when rightly enforced as
other prohibitions upon the State, not by legislation of a penal
nature, but through the courts, no one will complain. The disfranchising provisions of the third section naturally created
great hostility to the whole amendment. They were regarded
by many wise and good men as impolitic, harsh, and cruel; and
the manner in which the first section has been enforced by
penal enactments against legislators and governors has engendered widespread and earnest hostility to it. Communities, like
individuals, resent even favors ungraciously bestowed. The
appropriate mode of enforcing the amendment is, in my judgment, that which has been applied to other previously existing
constitutional prohibitions, such as the one against a State pass-

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 759
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

ing a law impairing the obligation of contracts, or a bill of
attainder, or an ex posfacto law. The only provisions deemed
necessary to annul legislation of this kind have been such as
facilitated proceedings for that purpose in the courts; no other
can be appropriate against the action of a State. Thus enforced there would be little objection to the provisions of the
first section of the amendment. No one would object to the
clause forbidding a State to abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, that is, to take away or
impair their fundamental rights. No one would object to the
clause which declares that no State shall deprive any person of
life, liberty, or property without due process of law, nor to the
provision which declares that no State shall deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. If the
first section of the amendment is thus applied as a restriction
against the impairment of fundamental rights, it will not transfer to the federal government the protection of all private
rights, as is sometimes supposed, any more than the inhibition
against impairing the obligation of contracts transfers to the
federal government the cognizance of all contracts. It does
not limit the subjects upon which the States can legislate.
Upon every matter, in relation to which previously to its adoption they could have acted, they may still act. They can now,
as then, legislate to promote health, good order and peace, to
develop their resources, enlarge their industries, and advance
their prosperity. It only inhibits discriminating and partial
enactments, favoring some to the impairment of the rights of
others. The principal, if not the sole, purpose of its prohibitions is to prevent any arbitrary invasion by State authority of
the rights of person and property, and to secure to every one
the right to pursue his happiness unrestrained, except by just,
equal, and impartial laws.
The first section of the amendment is stripped of all its protective force, if its application be limited to the privileges and
immunities of citizens of the United States as distinguished
from citizens of the States, and thus its prohibition be extended
only to the abridgment or impairment of such rights, as the
right to come to the seat of government, to secure any claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

they may have upon that government, to transact any business
with it, to seek its protection, to share its offices, to engage in
administering its functions, to have free access to its seaports,
to demand its care and protection over life, liberty, and property on the high seas, or within the jurisdiction of a foreign
government, the right to peaceably assemble and petition for
redress of grievances, and the right to use the navigable waters
of the United States, which are specified in the opinion in the
Slaughter-House Cases as the special rights of such citizens. If
thus limited, nothing was accomplished by adopting it. The
States could not previously have interfered with these privileges
and immunities, or any other privileges and immunities which
citizens enjoyed under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. Any attempted impairment of them could have been
as successfully resisted then as now. The Constitution and
laws of the United States were as much then as now the supreme law of the land, which all officers of the State governments were then, as now, bound to obey.
Whilst, therefore, I fully concur in the decision of the court
that it was entirely competent for the State to annul the
monopoly features of the original act incorporating the plaintiff, I am of opinion that the act, in creating the monopoly
in an ordinary employment and business, was to that extent
against common right and void.
BRADLEY,

J. (with whom agree

HARLAN

and WooDs, JJ.),

concurring.
I concur in the judgment of the court in this case, reversing
the judgment of the Circuit Court. I think that the act of the
Legislature of Louisiana incorporating The Crescent City LiveStock Landing and Slaughter-House Company, and granting
to said company for twenty-five years the exclusive right to
erect and maintain stock-landings and slaughter-houses within
the limits of the parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, and St. Bernard,
was not a valid contract, binding upon the State of Louisiana
and protected by the Constitution of the United States from
alteration or repeal; but my reasons for this opinion are different from those stated in the opinion of the court. They are

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 761
Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

not based on the ground that the act was a police regulation.
The monopoly clause in the act was clearly not such. It had
nothing of the character of a police regulation. That part of
the act which regulated the position on the river, relatively
to the city of New Orleans, in which slaughter-houses and
stock-landings should be built, was a police regulation, proper
and necessary to prevent the offal of such establishments from
floating in the water in front of the city. But such a regulation could be complied with by any butcher erecting a slaughterhouse, or by any wharfinger erecting a stock-landing; and so
could every other real police regulation contained in the act.
The police regulations proper were hitched on to the charter as
a pretext. The exclusive right given to the company had
nothing of police regulation about it whatever. It was the
creation of a mere monopoly, and nothing else; a monopoly
without consideration and against common right; a monopoly
of an ordinary employment and business, which no legislature
has power to farm out by contract. Suppose a law should be
passed forbidding the erection of any bakery, or brewery, or soap
manufactory within the fire district, or any other prescribed
limits in a large city;-that would clearly be a police regulation; but would it be a police regulation to attach to such a
law the grant to a single corporation or person of the exclusive
right to erect bakeries, breweries, or soap. manufactories at any
place within ten miles of the city? Every one would cry out
against it as a pretence and an outrage.
I hold it to be an incontrovertible proposition of both
English and American public law, that all mere monopolies are
odious and against common right. The practice of granting
them in the time of Elizabeth came near creating a revolution.
But Parliament, then the vindicator of the public liberties, intervened and passed the act against monopolies. 21 Jac. I. c. 3.
The courts had previously, in the last year of Elizabeth, in the
great Case of Mon opolies, 11 Rep. 84 b, decided against the
legality of royal grants of this kind. That was only the case of
the sole privilege of making cards within the realm ; but it was
decided on the general principle that all monopoly patents were
void both at common law and by statute, unless granted to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

introducer of a new trade or engine, and then for a reasonable
time only; that all trades, as well mechanical as others, which
prevent idleness, and enable men to maintain themselves and
their families, are profitable to the commonwealth, and therefore the grant of the sole exercise thereof is against not only
the common law, "but the benefit and liberty of the subject."
It was in view of this decision, and in accordance with the principles established by it, that the act of 21 James I. was passed
abolishing all monopolies, with the exception of "letters patent
and grants of privileges, for the term of fourteen years or
under, of the sole working or vending of any manner of new
manufactures to the true and first inventor and inventors of
such manufactures, which others, at the time of making such
letters patent and grants shall not use." As a mere declaration of the common and statute law of England, the case of
Monopolies, and the act of 21 James I. would have but little
influence on the question before us, which concerns the power
of the legislature of a State to create a monopoly. But those
public transactions have a much greater weight than as mere
declarations and enactments of municipal law. They form one
of the constitutional landmarks of British liberty, like the
Petition of Right, the Habeas Corpus act, and other great constitutional acts of Parliament. They established and declared
one of the inalienable rights of freemen which our ancestors
brought with them to this country. The right to follow any
of the common occupations of life is an inalienable right; it
was formulated as such under the phrase "pursuit of happiness"
in the Declaration of Independence, which commenced with
the fundamental proposition that "all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable
rights; that among these are life, liberty, and t,4e _pursuit of
h4appiness." This right is a large ingredient in the civil liberty
of the citizen. To deny it to all but a few favored individuals,
by investing the latter with a monopoly, is to invade one of the
fundamental privileges of the citizen, contrary not only to common right, but, as I think, to the express words of the Constitution. It is what no legislature has a right to do; and no
contract to that end can be binding on subsequent legislatures.

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 763
'Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

I do not mean to say that there are no exclusive rights
which can be granted, or that there are not many regulative
restraints on civil action which may be imposed by law. There
are such. The granting of patents for inventions, and copyrights for books, is one instance already referred to. This is
done upon a fair consideration and upon grounds of public
policy. Society gives to the inventor or author the exclusive
benefit for a time of that which, but for him, would not, or
mioht not, have existed; and thus not only repays him, but
encourages others to apply their powers for the public utility.
So, an exclusive right to use franchises, which could not be exercised without legislative grant, may be given; such as that of constructing and operating public works, railroads, ferries, &c. In
such cases a part of the public duty is farmed out to those willing to undertake the burden for the profits incidentally arising
from it. So, licenses may be properly required in the pursuit
of many professions and avocations which require peculiar skill
or supervision for the public welfare. But in such cases there
is no real monopoly. The profession or avocation is open to
all alike who will prepare themselves with the requisite qualifications, or give the requisite security for preserving public
order; except in certain cases, such as the sale of intoxicating
drinks, where the interests of society require regulation as to
the number of establishments as well as the character of those
who carry them on. All such regulations as are here enumerated are entirely competent to the legislature to make. But
this concession does not in the slightest degree affect the proposition (which I deem a fundamental one), that the ordinary
pursuits of life, forming the large mass of industrial avocations,
are and ought to be free and open to all, subject only to such
general regulations, applying equally to all, as the general good
may demand; and the grant to a favored few of a monopoly
in any of these common callings is necessarily an outrage upon
the liberty of the citizen as exhibited in one of its most important aspects-the liberty of pursuit.
But why is such a grant beyond the legislative power, and
contrary to the Constitution ?
The Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, after de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

claring that all persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States and of the State wherein they reside, goes on
to declare that "no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
law.")
I hold that a legislative grant, such as that given to the appellees in this case, is an infringement of each of these prohibitions. It abridges the privileges of citizens of the United
States; it deprives them of a portion of their liberty and property without due process of law; and it denies to them the
equal protection of the laws.
1. I hold that the liberty of pursuit-the right to follow any
of the ordinary callings of life-is one of the privileges of a
citizen of the United States. It was held by a majority of the
court in the former decision of the Slcaughter-IMouse Cases, 16
Wall. 36, 57, that the "privileges and immunities of citizens of
the United States" mentioned and referred to in the Fourteenth Amendment, are only those privileges and immunities
which were created by the Constitution of the United States,
and grew out of it, or out of laws passed in pursuance of it. I
then held, and still hold, that the phrase has a broader meaning; that it includes those fundamental privileges and immunities which belong essentially to the citizens of every free
government, among which Mr. Justice Washington enumerates
the right of protection; the right to pursue and obtain happiness and safety; the right to pass through and reside in any
State for purposes of trade, agriculture, professional pursuits
or otherwise; to claim the benefit of the writ of habeas corpgus;
to institute and maintain actions of any kind in the courts of
the State ; and to take, hold, and dispose of property, either
real or personal.
Corfeld v. Corryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371,
381. These rights are different from the concrete rights which
a man may have to a specific chattel or a piece of land, or to
the performance by another of a particular contract, or to

BUTCHERS' UNION CO. v. CRESCENT CITY CO. 765
Concurring Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Woods, JJ.

damages for a particular wrong, all which may be invaded
by individuals; they are the capacity, power, or privilege of
having and enjoying those concrete rights, and of maintaining
them in the courts, which capacity, power, or privilege can only
be invaded by the State. These primordial and fundamental
rights are "the privileges and immunities of citizens," which
are referred to in the Fourth Article of the Constitution and
in the Fourteenth Amendment to it. In the former it is declared that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to ALL
PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF CITIZENS in the several States, "

that is, in the other States. It was this declaration which Justice Washington was expounding when he defined what was
meant by "privileges and immunities of citizens." The Fourteenth Amendment goes further, and declares that "no State
shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
United States ;" which includes the citizens of the State itself,
as well as the citizens of other States.
In my opinion, therefore, the law which created the monopoly in question did abridge the privileges of all other citizens,
when it gave to the appellees the sole power to have and maintain stock-landings and slaughter-houses within the territory
named, because these are among those ordinary pursuits and
callings which every citizen has a right to follow if lie will,
subject, of course, to regulations equally open to all.
2. -Butif it does not abridge the privileges and immunities
of a citizen of the United States to prohibit him from pursuing
his chosen calling, and giving to others the exclusive right of
pursuing it,-it certainly does deprive him (to a certain extent)
of his liberty; for it takes from him the freedom of adopting
and following the pursuit which he prefers; which, as already
intimated, is a material part of the liberty of the citizen. And,
if a man's right to his calling is property, as many maintain,
then those who had already adopted the prohibited pursuits in
New Orleans, were deprived, by the law in question, of their
property, as well as their liberty, without due process of law.
3. But still more apparent is the violation, by this monopoly
law, of the last clause of the section-" no State shall deny to
any person the equal protection of the laws." If it is not a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

denial of the equal protection of the laws to grant to one man,
or set of men, the privilege of following an Ordinary calling in
a large community, and to deny it to all others, it is difficult
to understand what would come within the constitutional prohibition.
Monopolies are the bane of our body politic at the present
day. In the eager pursuit of gain they are sought in every
direction. They exhibit themselves in corners in the stock
market and produce market, and in many other ways. If by
legislative enactment they can be carried into the common
avocations and callings of life, so as to cut off the right of the
citizen to choose his avocation, the right to earn. his bread by
the trade which he has learned; and if there is no constitutional means of putting a check to such enormity, I can only
say that it is time the Constitution was still further amended.
In my judgment, the present Constitution is amply sufficient
for the protection of the people if it is fairly interpreted and
faithfully enforced.

EX PARTE: R1ITZ, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 4th, 5th, 1884.-Decided May 5th, 1884.
Certiorari-Diplomatic
privilege.
A writ of certiorari when applied for by a defendant is not a writ of right but
discretionary with the court.
On an application by a person indicted for an offence committed while president of a national bank against the provisions of ยง 5209 for certiorari to
bring up the indictment on the ground that when the alleged offence was
committed he was a political agent of a foreign government, the application was refused when it appeared that his own government had requested
his resignation prior to the finding of the indictment, although it was not
actually given till subsequent thereto, and that the political department of
the Government of the United States had refused him the privilege of free
entry of goods usually accorded to a diplomatic representative.

This was an application by Mr. John litz for a writ of certiorari commanding the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

