UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 75-661.

Argued January 18, 1977-Decided April 19, 1977

Respondents, enrolled Coeur d'Alene Indians, were indicted by a federal
grand jury on charges of burglary, robbery, and murder of a non-Indian
within the boundaries of their reservation. One respondent was convicted of second-degree murder only; the other two were convicted of all
three crimes as charged, including first-degree murder under the felonymurder provisions of the federal-enclave murder statute, 18 U. S. C.
§ 1111, as made applicable to Indians by the Major Crimes Act, 18
U. S. C. § 1153. The Court of Appeals reversed on the ground that.
respondents had been denied their constitutional rights under the equal
protection component of the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause.
The court agreed with respondents' contention that their felony-murder
convictions were racially discriminatory since a non-Indian charged with
the same crime would have been subject to prosecution only under Idaho
law, under which premeditation and deliberation would have had to be
proved, whereas no such elements were required under the felony-murder
provisions of 18 U. S. C. § 1111. Held: Respondent Indians were not
deprived of the equal protection of the laws. Pp. 645-650.
(a) The federal criminal statutes enforced here are based neither in
whole nor in part upon impermissible racial classifications. Federal regulation of Indian tribes is rooted in the unique status of Indians as "a
separate people" with their own political institutions, and is not to be
viewed as legislation of a " 'racial' group consisting of 'Indians'...
Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 553 n. 24. Pp. 645-647.
(b) The challenged statutes do not otherwise violate equal protection.
Respondents were subjected to the same body of law as any other
individuals, Indian or non-Indian, charged with first-degree murder
committed in a federal enclave. Congress has undoubted power to
prescribe a criminal code applicable to Indian country, and the disparity
between federal law and Idaho law has no equal protection or other
constitutional significance. Pp. 647-650.
523 F. 2d 400, reversed and remanded.
BURGER,

C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

430 U. S.

Deputy Solicitor General Frey argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Bork, Assistant Attorney General Thornburgh, Harry R.
Sachse, and Jerome M. Feit.
Allen V. Bowles, by appointment of the Court, 429 U. S.
892, argued the cause and filed a brief for respondent Antelope. John W. Walker, by appointment of the Court, ibid.,
argued the cause and filed a brief for respondents Davison et
al.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented by our grant of certiorari is whether,
under the circumstances of this case, federal criminal statutes
violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment by
subjecting individuals to federal prosecution by virtue of their
status as Indians.

(1)

On the night of February 18, 1974, respondents, enrolled
Coeur d'Alene Indians, broke into the home of Emma Johnson, an 81-year-old non-Indian, in Worley, Idaho; they robbed
and killed Mrs. Johnson. Because the crimes were committed
by enrolled Indians within the boundaries of the Coeur d'Alene
Indian Reservation, respondents were subject to federal jurisdiction under the Major Crimes Act, 18 U. S. C. § 1153.'
They were, accordingly, indicted by a federal grand jury on

I Title

18 U. S. C. § 1153 at the time in question provided in pertinent

part:

"Any Indian who commits against the person or property of another
Indian or other person any of the following offenses, namely, murder,
manslaughter, rape, carnal knowledge of any female, not his wife, who has
not attained the age of sixteen years, assault with intent to commit rape,
incest, assault with intent to kill, assault with a dangerous weapon, assault
resulting in serious bodily injury, arson, burglary, robbery, and larceny
within the Indian country, shall be subject to the same laws and penalties

UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE
641

Opinion of the Court

charges of burglary, robbery, and murder.2 Respondent William Davison was convicted of second-degree murder only.

Respondents Gabriel Francis Antelope and Leonard Davison
were found guilty of all three crimes as charged, including
first-degree murder under the felony-murder provisions of 18
U. S. C. § 1111,' as made applicable to enrolled Indians by 18
U. S. C. § 1153.

(2)
In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
respondents contended that their felony-murder convictions
as all other persons committing any of the above offenses, within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States."
The background leading up to enactment of the Major Crimes Act is
discussed in Keeble v. United States, 412 U. S. 205, 209-212 (1973). As
noted in that case, the Government has characterized the Major Crimes
Act as "a carefully limited intrusion of federal power into the otherwise
exclusive jurisdiction of the Indian tribes to punish Indians for crimes
committed on Indian land." Id., at 209.
2 Except for the offenses enumerated
in the Major Crimes Act, all
crimes committed by enrolled Indians against other Indians within Indian
country are subject to the jurisdiction of tribal courts. 18 U. S. C. § 1152.
Not all crimes committed within Indian country are subject to federal or
tribal jurisdiction, however. Under United -States v. McBratney, 104
U. S. 621 (1882), a non-Indian charged with committing crimes against
other non-Indians in Indian country is subject to prosecution under state
law.
3 Title 18 U. S. C. § 1111 is the federal murder statute. It provides in
pertinent part:
"(a) Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice
aforethought. Every murder perpetrated by poison, lying in wait, or any
other kind of willful, deliberate, malicious, and premeditated killing; or
committed in the perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate, any arson,
rape, burglary, or robbery; or perpetrated from a premeditated design
unlawfully and maliciously to effect the death of any human being other
than him who is killed, is murder in the first degree.
"Any other murder is murder in the second degree."
It should be emphasized that respondent William Davison was convicted
only of second-degree murder, not felony murder, under 18 U. S. C. § 1111.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

430 U. S.

were unlawful as products of invidious racial discrimination.
They argued that a non-Indian charged with precisely the
same offense, namely the murder of another non-Indian
within Indian country,4 would have been subject to prosecution only under Idaho law, which in contrast to the federal
murder statute, 18 U. S. C. § 1111, does not contain a felonymurder provision.' To establish the crime of first-degree
murder in state court, therefore, Idaho would have had to
prove premeditation and deliberation. No such elements
were required under the felony-murder component of 18
U. S. C. § 1111.
Because of the difference between Idaho and federal law,
the Court of Appeals concluded that respondents were "put
at a serious racially-based disadvantage," 523 F. 2d 400,
406 (1975), since the Federal Government was not required to establish premeditation and deliberation in respondents' federal prosecution. This disparity, so the Court of
Appeals concluded, violated equal protection requirements
implicit in the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
We granted the United States' petition for certiorari, 424
U. S. 907 (1976), and we reverse.
4 See n. 2, supra. Federal law ostensibly extends federal jurisdiction to
all crimes occurring in Indian country, except offenses subject to tribal
jurisdiction. 18 U. S. C. § 1152. However, under United States v.
McBratney, supra, and cases that followed, this Court construed § 1152
and its predecessors as not applying to crimes by non-Indians against
other non-Indians. Thus, respondents correctly argued that, had the
perpetrators of the crimes been non-Indians, the courts of Idaho would
have had jurisdiction over these charges.
Idaho statutes contain the following definition of first-degree murder:
"All murder which is perpetrated by means of poison, or lying in wait,
torture, or by any other kind of wilful, deliberate and premeditated
killing is murder of the first degree. Any murder of any peace officer of
this state or of any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof,
when the officer is acting in line of duty, . . . shall be murder in the first
degree. . . . All other kinds of murder are of the second degree." Idaho
Code § 18-4003 (Supp. 1976).

UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE
Opinion of the Court

641

(3)
The decisions of this Court leave no doubt that federal
legislation with respect to Indian tribes, although relating to
Indians as such, is not based upon impermissible racial classifications. Quite the contrary, classifications expressly singling
out Indian tribes as subjects of legislation are expressly provided for in the Constitution 6 and supported by the ensuing
history of the Federal Government's relations with Indians.
"Indian tribes are unique aggregations possessing attributes of sovereignty over both their members and their
territory, Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 557 (1832);
they are 'a separate people' possessing 'the power of reguUnited
lating their internal and social relations . . . .'"
(1975).
557
U.
S.
544,
419
Mazurie,
v.
States
Legislation with respect to these "unique aggregations" has
repeatedly been sustained by this Court against claims of unlawful racial discrimination. In upholding a limited employment preference for Indians in the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
we said in Morton v. Mancari,417 U. S. 535, 552 (1974):
"Literally every piece of legislation dealing with Indian
tribes and reservations ... single[s] out for special treatment a constituency of tribal Indians living on or near
reservations. If these laws . . . were deemed invidious
racial discrimination, an entire Title of the United States
Code (25 U. S. C.) would be effectively erased .... .
In light of that result, the Court unanimously concluded in
Mancari:
"The preference, as applied, is granted to Indians not as
a discrete racial group, but, rather, as members of quasisovereign tribal entities .. . ." Id., at 554.
6 Article

I, § 8, of the Constitution gives Congress power "[t]o regulate

Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with
the Indian tribes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

430 U. S.

Last Term, in Fisher v. District Court, 424 U. S. 382 (1976),
we held that members of the Northern Cheyenne Tribe could
be denied access to Montana State courts in connection with
an adoption proceeding arising on their reservation. Unlike
Mancari, the Indian plaintiffs in Fisher were being denied
a benefit or privilege available to non-Indians; nevertheless, a
unanimous Court dismissed the claim of racial discrimination:
"[W]e reject the argument that denying [the Indian
plaintiffs] access to the Montana courts constitutes impermissible racial discrimination. The exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribal Court does not derive from the race of
the plaintiff but rather from the quasi-sovereign status of
the Northern Cheyenne Tribe under federal law." 424
U. S., at 390.
Both Mancariand Fisher involved preferences or disabilities
directly promoting Indian interests in self-government,
whereas in the present case we are dealing, not with matters
of tribal self-regulation, but with federal regulation of criminal
conduct within Indian country implicating Indian interests.
But the principles reaffirmed in Mancari and Fisher point
more broadly to the conclusion that federal regulation of
Indian affairs is not based upon impermissible classifications.
Rather, such regulation is rooted in the unique status of
Indians as "a separate people" with their own political institutions. Federal regulation of Indian tribes, therefore, is
governance of once-sovereign political communities; it is not
to be viewed as legislation of a " 'racial' group consisting of
'Indians' . . . .'" Morton v. Mancari, supra, at 553 n. 24.
Indeed, respondents were not subjected to federal criminal
jurisdiction because they are of the Indian race but because
they are enrolled members of the Coeur d'Alene Tribe.' We
7 As was true in Mancari, federal jurisdiction under the Major Crimes
Act does not apply to "many individuals who are racially to be classified
as 'Indians.'" 417 U. S., at 553 n. 24. Thus, the prosecution in this case
offered proof that respondents are enrolled members of the Coeur

UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE
641

Opinion of the Court

therefore conclude that the federal criminal statutes enforced
here are based neither in whole nor in part upon impermissible racial classifications.
(4)
The challenged statutes do not otherwise violate equal
protection.8 We have previously observed that Indians ind'Alene Tribe and thus not emancipated from tribal relations. Moreover,
members of tribes whose official status has been terminated by congressional enactment are no longer subject, by virtue of their status, to
federal criminal jurisdiction under the Major Crimes Act. United States
v. Heath, 509 F. 2d 16, 19 (CA9 1974) ("While anthropologically a
Klamath Indian even after the Termination Act obviously remains an
Indian, his unique status vis-a-vis the Federal Government no longer
exists"). In addition, as enrolled tribal members, respondents were subjected to federal jurisdiction only because their crimes were committed
within the confines of Indian country, as defined in 18 U. S. C. § 1151.
Crimes occurring elsewhere would not be subject to exclusive federal
jurisdiction. Puyallup Tribe v. Department of Game, 391 U. S. 392, 397
n. 11 (1968).
It should be noted, however, that enrollment in an official tribe has
not been held to be an absolute requirement for federal jurisdiction, at
least where the Indian defendant lived on the reservation and "maintained tribal relations with the Indians thereon." Ex parte Pero, 99
F. 2d 28, 30 (CA7 1938). See also United States v. Ives, 504 F. 2d 935,
953 (CA9 1974) (dicta). Since respondents are enrolled tribal members,
we are not called on to decide whether nonenrolled Indians are subject to
18 U. S. C. § 1153, and we therefore intimate no views on the matter.
8 Other than their argument that the federal statutes create an invidious
racial classification, respondents do not seriously contend that application
of federal law to Indian tribes is so irrational as to deny equal protection.
See n. 11, infra. They do point, however, to Congress' relinquishment of
criminal jurisdiction over Indians in six States pursuant to 18 U. S. C.
§ 1162. But § 1162 is simply one manifestation of Congress' continuing
concern with the welfare of Indian tribes under federal guardianship.
Indeed, in adopting § 1162, Congress singled out certain reservations to
remain subject to federal criminal jurisdiction. Congress' selective approach in § 1162 reinforces, rather than undermines, the conclusion that
legislation directed toward Indian tribes is a necessary and appropriate
consequence of federal guardianship under the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

430 U. S.

dicted under the Major Crimes Act enjoy the same procedural
benefits and privileges as all other persons within federal
jurisdiction. Keeble v. United States, 412 U. S. 205, 212
(1973). See 18 U. S. C. § 3242. Respondents were, therefore,
subjected to the same body of law as any other individual,
Indian or non-Indian, charged with first-degree murder committed in a federal enclave.' They do not, and could not,
contend otherwise.
There remains, then, only the disparity between federal
and Idaho law as the basis for respondents' equal protection
claim. ° Since Congress has undoubted constitutional power
to prescribe a criminal code applicable in Indian country,
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375 (1886), it is of no consequence that the federal scheme differs from a state criminal
code otherwise applicable within the boundaries of the State
9 Federal jurisdiction would extend to crimes, regardless of the race of
the perpetrator or victim, committed on federal enclaves, such as military
installations, or on vessels of the United States on the high seas.
Congress has provided for federal jurisdiction over the crime of murder
on a reservation, much as on other federal enclaves, 18 U. S. C. §§ 1111,
1153. But as our opinions have recognized that Indian reservations differ
in certain respects from other federal enclaves, the statute has been construed as not encompassing crimes on the reservation by non-Indians
against non-Indians. United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621 (1882);
see Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647, 651 (1930); Williams v.
Lee, 358 U. S. 217, 219-220 (1959); McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax
Comm'n, 411 U. S. 164, 171 (1973). Federal statutes do not single out
Indians as such; non-Indian defendants are also covered if the victim was a
member of the tribe.
10 Respondents base their equal protection claim on the assumption that
they have been disadvantaged by being prosecuted under federal law. In
their view, their murder convictions were made more likely by the fact
that federal prosecutors were not required to prove premeditation. However, they do not seriously question that the evidence adduced at their
federal trial might well have supported a finding of premeditation and
deliberation, since respondents were found to have beaten and kicked
Mrs. Johnson to death during the course of a planned robbery.

UNITED STATES v. ANTELOPE
641

Opinion of the Court

of Idaho.

Under our federal system, the National Govern-

ment does not violate equal protection when its own body of
law is evenhanded, 1 regardless of the laws of States with
respect to the same subject matter. 2
The Federal Government treated respondents in the same

manner as all other persons within federal jurisdiction, pursuant to a regulatory scheme that did not erect impermissible
lilt

should be noted, however, that this Court has consistently upheld

federal regulations aimed solely at tribal Indians, as opposed to all persons
subject to federal jurisdiction. See, e. g., United States v. Holiday, 3
Wall. 407, 417-418 (1866); Perrin v. United States, 232 U. S. 478, 482
(1914). See also Rosebud Sioux Tribe v. Kneip, ante, at 613-615, n. 47.
Indeed, the Constitution itself provides support for legislation directed
specifically at the Indian tribes. See n. 6, supra. As the Court noted in
Morton v. Mancari, the Constitution therefore "singles Indians out as a
,proper subject for separate legislation." 417 U. S., at 552.
In this regard, we are not concerned with instances in which Indians
tried in federal court are subjected to differing penalties and burdens of
proof from those applicable to non-Indians charged with the same offense.
Compare United States v. Big Crow, 523 F. 2d 955 (CA8 1975), cert.
denied, 424 U. S. 920 (1976), and United'States v. Cleveland, 503 F. 2d
1067 (CA9 1974), with United States v. Analla, 490 F. 2d 1204 (CA10),
vacated and remanded, 419 U. S. 813 (1974). See 18 U. S. C. § 1153
(1976 ed.) (which provides for uniform penalties for both Indians and
non-Indians charged with assault resulting in serious bodily injury). That
issue is not before us, and we intimate no views on it.
12 Indeed, had respondents been prosecuted under state law, they may
well have argued, under this Court's holding in Seymour v. Superintendent,
368 U. S. 351 (1962), that the state conviction was void for want of
jurisdiction. In Seymour, an enrolled member of the Colville Indian Tribe
was convicted in state court of attempted burglary within Indian country.
In reversing the state conviction, this Court held:
"Since the burglary with which petitioner was charged occurred on
property . . . within the . . . [Indian] reservation, the courts of Washington had no jurisdiction to try him for that offense." Id., at 359.
If state courts would have had no jurisdiction over respondents' case,
then state law does not constitute a meaningful point of reference for
establishing a claim of equal protection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion. of the Court

430 U. S.

racial classifications; hence, no violation of the Due Process
Clause infected respondents' convictions. 3
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

If we accepted respondents' contentions, persons charged with crimes
on federal military bases or other federal enclaves could demand that
their federal prosecutions be governed by state law to the extent that
state law was more "lenient" than federal law. The Constitution does
not authorize this kind of gamesmanship. Indeed, any such rule, even
assuming its workability, is flatly inconsistent with the Supremacy Clause
of the Constitution, Art. VI, cl. 2.
13

