BENZ v. NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY.

147

Per Curiam.

BENZ v. NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY
AUTHORITY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 234. Argued February 28-March 1, 1962.-Decided March 19, 1962.
Since it now appears that this case presents no substantial federal
question, the writ of certiorari is dismissed as irbprovidently
granted.
Reported below: 9 N. Y. 2d 486, 174 N. E. 2d 727.

Lauren D. Rachlin argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
Julius L. Sackman argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the briefs were Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney
General of New York, and Paxton Blair,Solicitor General.
PER CURIAM.

We granted certiorari in this case, 368 U. S. 886, to
decide whether the State of New York could, consistently
with the Fourteenth Amendment, assert sovereign immunity in a suit brought by petitioner to reform on grounds
of mutual mistake, or to rescind for fraud in the inducement, an agreement fixing compensation for land taken
under the power of eminent domain. Contrary to our
initial impression of the case on the bisis of the petition
for certiorari, plenary consideration has satisfied us that
the New York Court of Appeals decided no more than
that this suit could not be maintained in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York because exclusive jurisdiction over litigation of this character had been vested
in the New York Court of Claims. The case then involves
only a matter relating to "the distribution of jurisdiction
in the state courts," and presents no substantial federal
question. E. g., Honeyman V. Hanan, 302 U. S. 375.

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

369 U. S.

Since the representative of the State Attorney General advised us on oral argument that the Attorney
General will recommend passage of a bill by the State Legislature relieving petitioner from the operation of the
statute of limitations governing proceedings in the New
York Court of Claims, [*] we assume that she will be free
to present her claims in the appropriate state forum.
The writ is dismissed as improvidently granted.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.

[*RPoR.ER's NOE: Such a bill became a law on April 29, 1962,
N, Y. Laws 1962, o. 940.]

