OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Syllabus.

369 U. S.

UNITED GAS PIPE LINE CO. v. IDEAL CEMENT
CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 61.

Argued December 13, 1961.-Decided March 19, 1962.

On appeal from a judgment of a Federal District Court in a suit
based on diversity of citizenship, the Court of Appeals held that
taxes collected by the City of Mobile, Ala., relative to sales of
natural gas were invalid under the Commerce lause. In doing
so, it relied upon its own interpretation of the City's License Code
and relevant provisions of state statutes, though there had been
no relevant interpretation of them by the state courts and declaratory judgment proceedings were available in the state courts. On
appeal to this Court, held:
1. This Court has jurisdictiun of this appeal under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1254 (2). P. 135.
2. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated to permit a
construction of the License Code of Mobile, so far as relevant to
this litigation, to be sought with every expedition in the state
courts. Pp. 135-136.
Reported below: 282 F. 2d 574.

E. Dixie Beggs argued the cause and filed briefs for
appellant.
James Lawrence White argued the cause for Ideal
Cement Co., appellee. With him on the briefs were
Marion R. Vickers, Stephen H. Hart and John Fleming
Kelly. S. P. Gaillard,Jr. filed a brief for Scott Paper Co.,
appellee.
Charles S. Rhyne, by special leave of Court, 368 U. S.
805, argued the cause for the City of Mobile, Alabama, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal. With him on the brief
was Herzel H. E. Plaine.

UNITED GAS CO. v. IDEAL CEMENT CO.
134

135

Per Curiam.

PER CURIAM.

This is an appeal from the Court of Appeals' reversal
of a summary judgment entered for the appellant in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of
Alabama. The suit, based on diversity of citizenship,
sought contractual reimbursement of taxes paid to the
City of Mobile relative to sales of natural gas to the
appellees. They defended on the ground that the contracts contemplated reimbursement only of valid tax payments, and that the License Code of the City of Mobile,
§ 1, par. 193 (1955), under which the tax was exacted and
paid, was invalid under the Commerce Clause of the
United States Constitution. The Court of Appeals sustained this contention, by interpreting both the primary
and enforcement provisions of the License Code and its
surrounding state legislation as operating not to tax a
separable local portion of interstate commerce but as a
means of licensing appellant's right of entry into ti , City
from without the State. 282 F. 2d 574, 580. We postponed determination of our jurisdiction to consideration
of the merits, 366 U. S. 916, and now find that the case is
properly here under 28 U. S. C. § 1254 (2).
The interpretation of state law by the Court of Appeals,
in an opinion by its Alabama member, was rendered in
advance of construction of the License Code by the courts
of the State, which alone, of course, can define its authoritative meaning. We ought not, certainly on this record,
either accept the Court of Appeals' construction or, on an
independent consideration, reject what the Alabama
Supreme Court may later definitively approve. The
availability of appropriate declaratory-judgment proceedings under Ala. Code, Tit. 7, §§ 156-168 (1940), avoids
this unsatisfactory dilemma. Wise judicial administration in this case counsels that decision of the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Opinion of

DOUGLAS, J.

369 U. S.

question be deferred until the potentially controlling
state-law issue is authoritatively put to rest. See Leiter
Minerals, Inc., v. United States, 352 U. S. 220, 228-229.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
vacated to permit a construction of the License Code of
the City of Mobile, so far as relevant to this litigation, to
be sought with every expedition in the state courts.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER took no part in the disposition

of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS.

This case should be disposed of here; the long-drawnout litigation* foisted on the parties by the Court is needless. No matter how the local ordinance is construed the
tax is constitutional.
*The practice of remitting parties who sue in court to an administrative remedy (see, e. g., Pennsylvania R. Co. v. United States, 363
U. S. 202) or of remitting those who sue in a federal court to a state
court (Clay v. Sun Insurance Office, 363 U. S. 207; Clark, Federal
Procedural Reform and States' Rights, 40 Tex. L. Rev. 211) places
a financial burden on litigants, which can be afforded only by those
who can take the cost as a tax deduction or get reimbursement
through increased rates. For a case where the parties at the end of
14 years were still litigating a $7,000 (approx.) claim after starting
in one court, being shunted to an agency, and then ending in a different court, see Pennsylvania R. Co. v. United States, supra.
In Gardner, The Administrative Process, Legal Institutions Today
and Tomorrow (1959), pp. 139-140, it was said:
"Anyone who considers judicial review of agency action must allow
about a year if he has access to direct review by a court of appeals
and about two years if he must file in a district court and then carry
the controversy to the court of appeals. If a certiorari question
should develop which would warrant Supreme Court review, another
year should be added. If the result of the review should be to require
further agency proceedings, yet another year or so must be added.
Except for the litigant wbo advantages by delay, not many adminis-

UNITED GAS CO. v. IDEAL CEMENT CO. 137
1,34

Opinion of

DoUGLAS, J.

Congress under the Natural Gas Act, as amended, would
have the authority to prevent interstate pipelines from
delivering any gas for industrial use. Federal Power
Comm'n v. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., 365
U. S. 1. Yet once the interstate movement commences,
the line between permissible and impermissible local regulation is no longer a puzzle.
United is an interstate pipeline company that brings
natural gas into Alabama and supplies it in the City of
Mobile to a distributor, Mobile Gas. United delivers gas
to Mobile Gas at three stations not for resale, but for
delivery to appellees under contracts between appellant
and appellees. The'gas, when delivered to Mobile Gas,
is at a lower pressure than when it enters the State.
When Mobile Gas delivers it to the industrial customers
here involved, the gas is at a still lower pressure. The
case is therefore on all fours with East Ohio Gas Co. v.
Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S. 465. 'In speaking of the delivery
of gas at a reduced pressure within Ohio by an interstate
carrier, the Court said that the gas was then
"divided into the many thousand relatively 'tiny
streams that enter the small service lines connecting
such mains with the pipes on the consumers' premises. So segregated the gas in such service lines and
trative issues warrant an investment of time such as this. In probably a majority of the circumstances, it would be sounder business
practice to adjust at once to the agency decision and go on from
there, rather than to endure several years of uncertainty in order to
try to improve the result.
"The matter of expense is closely related to that of delay. It is
not possible to be precise, and surely it is not polite to mention money.
Yet none can discuss realistically judicial review unless he recognizes
that an issue of average complexity cannot adequately be carried to
the courts except at a cost which will range upward from $5,000."
See also Landis, Report on Regulatory Agencies to the PresidentElect (1960), pp. 5-13.
The cost of printing records for this Court is now $3.80 a page.

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J.

369 U. S.

pipes remains in readiness or moves forward to serve
as needed. The treatment and division of the large
compressed volume of gas is like the breaking of an
original package, after shipment in interstate commerce, in order that its contents may be treated, prepared for sale and sold at retail. . . . It follows that
the furnishing of gas to consumers in Ohio municipalities by means of distribution plants to supply the
gas suitably for the service for which it is intended
is not interstate commerce but a business of purely
local concern exclusively within the jurisdiction of
the State." Id., at 471.
Here too the package is broken on delivery of the gas
intrastate to Mobile Gas, the distributor, at a reduced
pressure.
It matters not that the City of Mobile calls the tax
levied here a "license tax." In InterstatePipe Line Co. v.
Stone, 337 U. S. 662, Mississippi levied a "privilege" tax
on the gross receipts of a pipeline that was bringing oil
from Mississippi fields to loading racks in that State,
where the oil was pumped into railroad cars for shipment
out of state.
Mr. Justice Rutledge, speaking for himself and three
others, said:
"Since all the activities upon which the tax is
imposed are carried on in Mississippi, there is no due
process objection to the tax. The tax does not discriminate against interstate commerce in favor of
competing intrastate commerce of like character.
The nature of the subject of taxation makes apportionment unnecessary; there is no attempt to tax
interstate activity carried on outside Mississippi's
borders. No other state can repeat the tax. For
these reasons the commerce clause does not invalidate this tax." Id., at 667-668.

UNITED GAS CO. v. IDEAL CEMENT CO. 139
134

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

Mr. Justice Burton, who also joined in the judgment,
approved the tax for the following reason: "I concur in
the judgment solely on the ground that the tax imposed
by the State of Mississippi was a tax on the privilege of
operating a pipe line for transporting oil in Mississippi
in intrastate commerce and that, as such, it was a valid
tax." Id., at 668.
In Southern Natural Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S.
148, an interstate pipeline company made deliveries in
Alabama to three distributors and one industrial user.
These activities were held to be local, on which a nondiscriminatory franchise tax could be levied. In Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
332 U. S. 507, 514, direct sales by interstate pipelines
to local consumers (as distinguished from deliveries to
local distributing companies for resale) were held to be
subject to state regulation. Speaking of the Natural Gas
Act, we said:
"Congress, it is true, occupied a field. But it was
meticulous to take in only territory which this Court
had held the states could not reach. That area did
not include direct consumer sales, whether for industrial or other uses. Those sales had been regulated
by the states and the regulation had been repeatedly
sustained. In no instance reAching this Court had
it been stricken down." Id., at 519.
The "license tax" in the present case, if it be such, is
only a tax on a wholly intrastate activity, to wit-the
delivery of gas to the local distributor for delivery to local
consumers.
This conclusion is more in the tradition of our cases
than was PanhandleEasternPipe Line Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 341 U. S.329, where a State was allowed to
exact from an interstate pipeline company a certificate of
public convenience and necessity to make direct deliveries
of gas to industrial consumers. The Court said that "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

369 U.S.

sale and distribution of gas to local consumers" was a
transaction "essentially local" and was "subject to
state regulation without infringement of the Commerce
Clause." Id., at 333. The sales there proposed were to
be made directly from the pipeline to the industrial users.
Here the gas first goes to the local distributor, which in
turn reduces the pressure and makes delivery to the industrial customers. .The local nature of the transaction is
more apparent and less complicated than it was in the
Panhandle case.
I would reverse the judgment below and hold the tax
valid.
dissenting.
In my opinion none of the considerations underlying
the doctrine of federal judicial abstention (see Harrison
v. N. A. A. C. P., 360 U. S. 167, 176-177) call for its application here. There is no reasonable likelihood that a
prior state construction of this License Code would either
change the complexion of the constitutional issue or avoid
the necessity of its eventual adjudication by this Court.
Even were this local enactment to be construed by the
state courts to require a license of the appellant as a precondition of engaging in the distribution of. natural gas
within the City of Mobile, that of itself would not ordain
the answer to the constitutional question. See Southern
Natural Gas Corp. v. Alabama, 301 U. S. 148; East Ohio
Gas Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S.465; see also Illinois
Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Pub. Serv. Co., 314
U. S.498, 506. Cf. Northwestern States PortlandCement
Co. v.Minnesota, 358 U. S. 450. Nor can I see how such
a state adjudication would serve to illumine the nature of
United's activities in Mobile.
As I view matters, nothing useful is to be accomplished
by remitting the parties to the state courts, and I would
adjudicate the constitutional issue now.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

