350

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Syllabus.

369 U. S.

TURNER v. CITY OF MEMPHIS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 84. Argued February 27, 1962.-Decided March 26, 1962.
Appellant, a Negro who had been refused nonsegregated service in a
restaurant operated by a private corporation on premises leased
from a city at its municipal airport, sued in a Federal District
Court on behalf of himself and others similarly situated to enjoin
such discrimination. He rested jurisdiction on 28 U. S. C.
§ 1343 (3), based the cause of action on 42 U. S. C. § 1983 and
alleged that appellees had acted under color of state law. A threejudge District Court convened to consider the case abstained from
further proceedings pending interpretation by the state courts of
certain state statutes relied upon by appellees as requiring racial
segregation in the restaurant. Appellants appealed both to the
Court of Appeals and directly to this Court. Held:
1. Since the unconstitutionality of state statutes requiring racial
segregation in publicly operated facilities is so well settled that it
is foreclosed as a litigable issue (Burton v. Wilmington Parking
Authority, 365 U. S. 715), a three-judge court was not required to
pass on this case under 28 U. S. C. § 2281 (Bailey v. Patterson,
ante, p. 31), and jurisdiction of this appeal is vested in the Court
of Appeals. P. 353.
2. There was no occasion for abstention from decision pending
interpretation of the state statutes by the state courts; appellant's
jurisdictional statement is treated as a petition for certiorari prior to
the judgment of the Court of Appeals under 28 U. S. C. §§ 1254 (1)
and 2101 (e); the petition is granted; the order of the District
Court is vacated; and the case is remanded to that Court with
directions to enter a decree granting appropriate injunctive relief
against the discrimination complained of. Pp. 353-354.
Judgment vacated and case remanded.

Constance Baker Motley argued the cause for appellant.
With her on the bief were Jack Greenberg and James M.
Nabrit III.

TURNER v. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
350

Per Curiam.

Frank B. Gianotti,Jr. argued the cause for the City of
Memphis, appellee. With him on the briefs was. James
M. Manire.
John M. Heiskell argued the cause for Dobbs Houses,
Inc., et al., appellees. With him on the briefs was
Edward P. A. Smith.
PER CURIAM.

Appellant, a Negro who was refused nonsegregated service in the Memphis Municipal Airport restaurant operated
by appellee Dobbs Houses, Inc., under a lease from
appellee City of Memphis, instituted this action on behalf of himself and other Negroes similarly situated seeking an injunction against such discrimination. He rested
jurisdiction upon 28 U. S. C. § 1343 (3) and premised
the cause of action upon 42 U. S. C. § 1983. Although
the complaint alleged that appellees acted under color of
state law, it did not identify any particular state statutes
or regulations being challenged. But appellees' answers,
in addition to asserting that the restaurant was i private
enterprise to which the Fourteenth Amendment did not
apply, invoked Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 53-2120, 53-2121, and
Regulation No. R-18 (L). The statutes as now phrased
authorize the Division of Hotel and Restaurant Inspection
of the State Department of Conservation to issue "such
rules and regulations . . . as may be necessary pertaining
to the safety and/or sanitation of hotels and restaurants . I ." and make violations of such regulations a misdemeanor. The regulation, promulgated by the Division,
provides that "Restaurants catering to both White and
negro patrons should be arranged so that each race is
properly segregated." The answers also set up the lease
agreement which provides, inter alia, that the leased premises are to be used "only and exclusively for lawful pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

369 U. S.

poses, and no part of the premises shall be used in any
manner whatsoever for any purposes in violation of the
laws of . . . the State of Tennessee .

. . ."

The City of

Memphis alleged further that unless and until the regulation was declared unconstitutional, the city would be
bound to object to desegregation of the restaurant by
Dobbs Houses as a violation of Tennessee law and of the
lease. Dobbs Houses alleged that desegregation by it of
the restaurant would therefore subject it to forfeiture of
the lease. Dobbs Houses later amended its answer to
include a defense based on Tenn. Code Ann. § 62-710.
That statute "abrogates" Tennessee's common-law cause
of action for exclusion from hotels or other public places,
and declares that the operators of such establishments are
free to exclude persons "for any reason whatever."
When the appellant moved for summary judgment
before a single district judge, the appellees opposed the
motion on the ground that the relief sought necessarily
challenged the constitutionality of the state statutes and
regulation so that under 28 U. S. C. §§ 2281, 2284, a
three-judge court was required. The single judge thereupon convened a three-judge court. Upon renewal by the
appellant before that court of his motion for summary
judgment, the appellees urged, and the three-judge court
ordered, that appellant's suit should be held in abeyance
pending a "Declaratory Judgment suit to be brought
by plaintiffs in the Tennessee Courts seeking an interpretation of the State statutes under consideration."
Appellant, being in doubt whether the case was one
"required . . . to be heard and determined by a district
court of three judges," in addition to appealing from the
abstention order directly to this Court under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1253, also perfected a timely appeal to the Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. We postponed consideration of the question of our jurisdiction of the direct appeal
to the hearing on the merits. 368 U. S.808.

TURNER v. CITY OF MEMPHIS.
350

Per Curiam.

Whether or not it may be said that appellant's complaint is to be read as seeking, under 28 U. S. C. § 2281,
an "injunction restraining the enforcement, operation or
execution of [a] . . . State statute by restraining the
action of any officer of such State in the enforcement or
execution of such statute," a question which we need not
decide, it is clear for other reasons that a three-judge court
was not required for the disposition of this case. Since, as
was conceded by Dobbs Houses at the bar of this Court,
the Dobbs Houses restaurant was subject to the strictures
of the Fourteenth Amendment under Burton v. Wilmington Parking Authority, 365 U. S. 715, the statutes and
regulation invoked by appellees could have furnished a
defense to the action only insofar as they expressed an
affirmative state policy fostering segregation in publicly
operated facilities. But our decisions have.foreclosed any
possible contention that such a statute or regulation may
stand consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment.
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483; Mayor &
City Council v. Dawson, 350 U. S.877; Holmes v. City of
Atlanta, 350 U. S.879; Gayle v. Browder, 352 U. S.903;
New Orleans City Park Improvement Assn. v. Detiege,
358 U. S. 54. It follows under our recent decision in
Bailey v. Patterson,ante, p. 31, that a three-judge court
was not required and that jurisdiction of this appeal is
vested in the Court of Appeals.
But we see no reason why disposition of the case should
await decision of the appeal by the Court of Appeals. On
the merits, no issue remains to be resolved. This is clear
under prior decisions and the undisputed facts of the case.
Accordingly no occasion is presented for abstention, and
the litigation should be disposed of as expeditiously as is
consistent with proper judicial administration. In light
of the perfected appeal to the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals, it is appropriate that we treat, and we do treat,
appellant's jurisdictional statement as a petition for writ

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

369 U. S.

of certiorari prior to judgment in the Court of Appeals.
28 U. S. C. §§ 1254 (1), 2101 (e); Stainback v. Mo Hock
Ke Lok Po, 336 U. S. 368, 370-371. The petition is
granted, the District Court's abstention order is vacated
and the case is remanded to the District Court with directions to enter a decree granting appropriate injunctive
relief against the discrimination complained of.
Vacated and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER

decision of this case.

did not participate in the

