GOLDLAWR, INC., v. HEIMAN.
Syllabus.

GOLDLAWR, INC., v. HEIMAN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 101.

Argued March 19, 1962.-Decided April 30, 1962.

Petitioner brought this private antitrust action for treble damages
and other relief under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act and § 4 of
the Clayton Act in a Federal District Court in Pennsylvania. On
a motion to dismiss on grounds of. improper venue and want of
personal jurisdiction over the defendants, that Court found that
venue was improperly laid as to two of the corpoIkate defendants
because they were not inhabitants of, "found" or transacting business in Pennsylvania; but, instead of dismissing the action, it used
its authority under 28 U. S. C. § 1406 (a) to transfer the case to
the Southern District of New York, where venue was proper
because the defendants could be found and transacted business
there and personal jurisdiction over them could be obtained by
service of process under § 12. These two corporate defendants
then moved the Federal District Court in New York to dismiss the
action on the ground that the District Court in Pennsylvania did
not have personal jurisdiction over them and, therefore, lacked
power under § 1406 (a) to transfer the action. Held: Section
1406 (a) is not limited to cases in which the transferring court has
personal jurisdiction over the defendants, and the District Court in
Pennsylvania acted- within its authority. Pp. 464-467.
288 F. 2d 579, reversed.

Edwin P. Rome argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
C. Russell Phillips argued the cause for Select Operating Corp. et al., respondents. With him on the briefs
were GeraldSchoenfeld, Bernard B. Jacobs, Aaron Lipper
and C. Brewster Rhoads.
Aaron Lipper argued the cause for Morgan Guaranty
Trust Company of New York, respondent. With him on
the brief was Richard B. Dannenberg.

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

369 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This private antitrust action for treble damages and
other relief under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act' and
§ 4 of the Clayton Act 2 was brought by the petitioner
against a number of defendants in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
After hearings on a motion to dismiss the action on
grounds of improper venue and lack of personal jurisdiction over the defendants, the Pennsylvania District Court
agreed that venue was improperly laid as to two of the
corporate defendants ' because they were neither inhabitants of, "found" nor transacting business in Pennsylvania,
these being the alternative prerequisites for venue under
§ 12 of the Clayton Act.' That court refused to dismiss the
action as to these defendants, however, choosing instead
to uge its authority under 28 U. S. C. § 1406 (a) to
transfer it to the Southern District of New York where,
because the defendants could be found and transacted
business, venue was proper and personal jurisdiction
could be obtained over them by servi3e of process under
§ 12. These two corporate defendants then appeared
in the New York District Court and moved to have the
case dismissed by that court on the ground that the
Pennsylvania District Court had not had personal jurisdiction over them and, lacking such personal jurisdiction,
it had not had power under § 1406 (a) to transfer the
1 26

Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1 and 2.

2 38 Stat. 731, 15.U. S.C. § 15.

The District Court also found venue improper as to a number
of individual defendants, but that fact is not relevant to any issue
prdperly before us. See note 5, infra.
38 Stat. 736, 15 U. S. C. § 22. This section, which deals with both
venue and personal jurisdiction in antitrust actions against corporations, also provides that process may be served in the district of which
,the corporation "is an inhabitant, or wherever it may be found."

GOLDLAWR, INC., v. HEIMAN.
463

Opinion of the Court.

action.' The New York District Court granted this motion on the ground asserted,' and the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, with Judge Hincks dissenting, affirmed
on the same ground.! Because this decision presented a
conflict with the uniform course of decisions previously
made on this same questi n by other Courts of Appeal,8
we granted certiorari."
Section 1406 (a), under which the Pennsylvania District Court transferred this case, provides:
"The district court of a district in which is filed
a case laying venue in the wrong division or district
shall dismiss, or if it be in the interest of justice,
transfer such case to any district or division in which
it could have been brought."
Nothing in that language indicates that the operation of
the section was intended to be limited to actions in which
the transferring court has personal jurisdiction over the
defendants. And we cannot agree that such a restrictive
interpretation can be supported by its legislative his5The Pennsylvania District Court also transferred the action
against the individual defendants as to whom venue had been found
improper. Only one of these, Marcus Heiman, moved in the New
York District Court to have the action dismissed as to him for lack
of power in the transferring court. Heiman's motion was granted on
this ground and on a second entirely independent ground. The Court
of Appeals affirmed the dismissal as to Heiman on both grounds and
the petitioner did not seek certiorari as to the second and independent
ground. The writ is therefore dismissed as to Heiman.
6 175 F. Supp. 793.
7 288 F. 2d 579.
8 See Internatio-Rotterdam,Inc., v. Thomsen, 218 F. 2d 514; Orion
Shipping & Trading Co. v. United States, 247 F. 2d 755; Amerio
Contact Plate Freezers, Inc., v. Knowles, 107 U. S. App. D. C. 81,
274 F. 2d 590; Hayes v. Livermont, 108 U. S. App. D. C. 43, 279
F. 2d 818.
9 368 U. S. 810.

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Opinion of the Court.

369 U. S.

tory-either that relied upon by the Court of Appeals "
or any other that has been brought to our attention. The
problem which gave rise to the enactment of the section
was that of avoiding the injustice which had often resulted
to plaintiffs from dismissal of their actions merely because
they had made an erroneous guess with regard to the existence of some elusive fact of the kind upon which venue
provisions often turn. Indeed, this case is itself a typical
example of the problem sought to be avoided, for dismissal here would have resulted in plaintiff's losing a substantial part of its cause of action under the statute of
limitations merely because it made a mistake in thinking
that the respondent corporations could be "found" or
that they "transact . . . business" in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania."1 The language and history of
§ 1406 (a), both as originally enacted 12 and as amended
in 1949,13 show a congressional purpose to provide as
effective a remedy as possible to avoid precisely this sort
of injustice.
The language of § 1406 (a) is amply b-oad enough to
authorize the transfer of cases, however wrong the plaintiff may have been in filing his case as to venue, whether
the court in which it was filed had personal jurisdiction
over the defendants or not. The section is thus in accord
with the general purpose which. has prompted many of
the procedural changes of the past few years-that
of removing whatever obstacles may impede an expeditious and orderly adjudication of cases and controversies*
10 Senate- Report No. 303, 81st Cong., 1st Sess., discussed by the
court below at 288 F. 2d 579, 583.
11 As illustrating the difficulties which may arise in determining
where corporations cap be found or transact business, see Polizzi v.
Cowles Magazines; Inc., 345 U. S. 663; International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U..S. 310.
12 62 Stat. 937.
13 63 Stat. 101.

GOLDLAWR, INC., v. HEIMAN.
463

HARJAN,

J., dissenting.

on their merits. When a lawsuit is filed, that filing shows
a desire on the part of the plaintiff to begin his case and
thereby toll whatever statutes of limitation would otherwise apply. The filing itself shows the proper diligence
on the part of the plaintiff which such statutes of limitation were intended to insure. If by reason of the uncertainties of proper venue a mistake is made, Congress, by
the enactment of § 1406 (a), recognized that "the interest
of justice" may require that the complaint not be dismissed but rather that it be transferred in order that the
plaintiff not be penalized by what the late Judge Parker
aptly characterized as "time-consuming and justicedefeating technicalities." 14 It would at least partially
frustrate this enlightened congressional objective to
import ambiguities into § 1406 (a) which do not exist in
the language Congress used to achieve the procedural
reform it desired:
The Court of Appeals erred in upholding the District
Court's order dismissing this action as to these two
corporate defendants. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is accordingly
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

took no part in the decision

of this case.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE took
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLN,

no part in the consideration

whom MR. JUSTICE STEWART

joins, dissenting.
The notion that a District Court may deal with an
in personam action in such a way as possibly to affect a
defendant's substantive rights without first acquiring
jurisdiction over him is not a familiar one in federal
14

Internatio-Rotterdam,Inc., V. Thomeen, 218 F. 2d 514, 517.

OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
HARLAN,

jurisprudence.

J., dissenting.

369 U. S.

No one suggests that Congress was aware

that 28 U. S. C. § 1406 (a) might be so used when it
enacted that statute. The "interest of justice" of which
the statute speaks and which the Court's opinion emphasizes in support of its construction of § 1406 (a) is
assuredly not a one-way street. And it is incongruous to
consider, as the Court's holding would seem to imply, that
in the "interest of justice" Congress sought in 1§1406 (a)
to deal with the transfer of cases where both venue and
juiisdiction are lacking in the district where the action is
commenced, while neglecting to provide any comparable
alleviative measures for the plaintiff who selects a district
where venue is proper but where personal jurisdiction
cannot be obtained.In these circumstances I think the matter is better left
for further action by Congress, preferably after the Judicial Conference of the United States has expressed its
views on the subject. Cf. Miner v. Atlas8, 363 U. S. 641,
650-652. Meanwhile, substantially for the reasons elaborated in the opinion of Judge Moore, 288 F. 2d 579, I
would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

*In an ordinary diversity suit, for example, -a plaintiff may bring
suit in the judicial district where he resides. 28 U. S. C. § 1391 (a).
But if he is unable to get personal service on the defendant in the
territory defined by Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 4 (f), his suit will be dismissed. See Robertson v. Railroad Labor Board, 268 U. S. 619; cf.
Mississippi Publishing Corp. v. Murphree, 326 U. S. 438, 442-443.
Since this would not be "a case laying venue in the wrong division or
district," § 1406 (a) would be inapplicable.

