OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Syllabus.

357 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. NATIONAL
CASUALTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH

No. 435.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 9-10, 1958.-Decided June 30, 1958.*

The Federal Trade Commission ordered respondent insurance companies to cease and desist from certain advertising practices found
by the Commission to be false, misleading and deceptive, in violation of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The orders
purported to apply in States having laws forbidding such practices
as well as in States not having such laws. The companies' advertising material was prepared by them and shipped in bulk to local
agents who distributed it locally. Only an insubstantial amount
went directly from the companies to the public, and there was no
use of radio, television, or other means of mass communication by
the companies. The Courts of Appeals set aside the Commission's
orders on the ground that, under the McCarran-Ferguson Act, the
Commission had no jurisdiction to make such orders effective in
States having laws forbidding such practices. Held: The judgments are affirmed. Pp. 561-565.
243 F. 2d 719, 245 F. 2d 883, affirmed.

Ralph S. Spritzer argued the causes for petitioler. On
the brief were Solicitor General Rankci, Earl IT. Kintner
and James E. Corkey.
John F. Langs argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent in No. 435.
J. D. Wheeler argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent in No. 436.
A brief of amici curiae urging affirinance was filed by
Paul L. Adams, Attorney General of Michigan, Samuel J.

Torina, Solicitor General, and Stanton S. Faville, Chief
*Together with No. 436, Federal Trade Commission v. American
Hospital & Life Insurance Co., on certiorari to the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

F. T. C. v. NATIONAL CASUALTY CO.
560

561

Per Curiam.

Assistant Attorney General, joined in by State Attorneys
General Robert Morrison of Arizona, Bruce Bennett of
Arkansas, Dffke W. Dunbar of Colorado, John J. Bracken
of Connecticut, Richard TV. Ervin of Florida, Eugene
Cook of Georgia, Latham Castle of Illinois, Edwin K.
Steers of. Indiana, Normar A. Erbe of Iowa, John Anderson, Jr.of Kansas, Jo M. Fergusonof Kentucky, Jack P. F.
Gremillion of Louisiana, C. Ferdinand Sybert of Maryland. John M. Dalton of Missouri. Clarence S. Beck of
NebrAska, Harvey Dickerson of Nevada, Louis C. Wyman
of 'New Hampshire, Fred M. Standley of New Mexico,
Louis J. Lefkowitz of New York, Leslie R. Burgum of
North Dakota, William Saxbe of Ohio, Mac Q. Williamson of Oklahoma, Robert Y. Thornton of Oregon, Thomas
D. McBride of Pennsylvania, J. Joseph Nugent of Rhode
Island, T. C. Callison of South Carolina, Phil Saunders of
South Dakota, George F. McCanless of Tennessee, Will
Wilson of Texas, E. Richard Callisterof Utah, A. S. Harrison, Jr. of Virginia, Frederick M. Reed of Vermont,
John J. O'Connell of Washington, W. W. Barron of West
Virginia, Stewart G. Honeck of Wisconsin and Thomas 0.
Miller of Wyoming.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmnance were also filed
by Franklin J. Marryott, L. J. Carey, Joseph P. Craugh,
John WV. Joanis and Garl Watkins for the American
Mutual Insurance Alliance, Whitney North Seymour for
the Health Insurance Association of America, 'and Hugh
B. -Cox and H. Thomas Austern for the Life Insurance
Association of America and the American Life Convention.
PER CURIAM.

The Courts of Appeals for the Fifth and Sixth Circuits
have set aside cease-and-desist orders of the Federal
Trade Commission prohibiting respondent insurance companies from carrying on certain advertising practices

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiain.

357 U.

S.

found by the Commission to be false, misleading, and
deceptive, in violation of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U. S. C. § 45.1 These orders seek to proscribe
activities within the boundaries of 'States that have their
own statutes prohibiting unfair and deceptive insurance
practices as well as within States that do not. The courts
below concluded that in view of the existence of these
statutes, the McCarran-Ferguson Act, 15 U. S. C. §§ 10111015, prohibits the Federal Trade Commission from regulating such practices within the States having these
statutes. We granted certiorari to review this interpretation of an important federal statute. 355 U. S. 867.
Respondents. the National Casualty Company in No.
435 and the American Hospital and Life Insurance
Company in No. 436, engage in the sale of health and
accident insurance. National is licensed to sell policies
in all States, as well as the District of Columbia and
Hawaii, while American is licensed in fourteen States.
Solicitation of business for National is carried on by
independent agents who operate on commission. The
company's advertising material is prepared by it and
shipped in bulk to these agents, who distribute the material locally and assume the expense of such dissemination.
Only an insubstantial amount of any advertising goes
directly by mail from the company to the public, and
there is no use of radio, television, or other means of mass
communication by the company. American does not
materially differ from National in method of operation.
The pertinent portions of the McCarran-Ferguson Act
are set forth in the margin. 2 An examination of that

IThe decision of the Court of Appals for the Fifth Circuit is
reported at 243 F. 2d 719. The decision of the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth ('ircuit is riportedI at 245 F. 2(1 883.
2 "That the Congress hereby declares that the continued regulation
and taxation by the se\er:il States of the business of insurance is

F. T. C. v. NATIONAL CASUALTY CO.
560

563

Per Curiam.

statute and its legislative history establishes that the
Act withdrew from the Federal Trade Commission the
authority to regulate respondents' advertising practices
in those States which are regulating those practices under
their own laws.'
Petitioner asserts that for constitutional reasons the
McCarran-Ferguson Act should be construed to authorize
federal regulation in these cases. It is urged that because
Congress understood that in accordance with due process
there are territorial limitations on the power of the States
to regulate an interstate business, it did not intend to
foreclose federal regulation of interstate insurance as a
supplement to state action. However, petitioner conin the public interest, and that silence on the part of the Congress
shall not be construed to impose any barrier to the regulation or
taxation of such business by the several States.
-SEc. 2. (a)
The business of insurance, and every person engaged
therein, shall be subject to the laws of the several States which relate
to the regulation or taxation of such business.
"(b) No Act of Congress shall be construed to invalidate, impair,
or supersede any law enacted by any State for the purpose of regulating the business of insurance, or which imposes a fee or tax upon
such business, unless such Act specifically relates to the business of
insurance: Provided, That after June 30, 1948, . . the Sherman
Act, . . . the Clayton Act, and . . . the Federal Trade Commission
Act . . . shall be applicable to the business of insurance to the extent
that such business is not regulated by State law. . . ." 59 Stat.
33, as amended, 61 Stat. 448, 70 Stat. 908.
3 The crucial proviso in Section 2 (b) was the subject of extended
debate. See, especially, the remarks of Senator McCarran, 91 Cong.
Rec. 1443, and Senator Ferguson, 91 Cong. Rec. 1481. A substantial
amount of material appears during the formulating period of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act. See, e g., S. Rep. No. 20, 79th Cong.,
1st Sess.; H. R. Rep. No. 143, 79th Cong., 1st Sess., and the remarks
of Senators Ferguson, Murdock, and Radcliffe, 91 Cong. Ree. 482483, and of Representatives Hancock and Owynne, 91 Cong. Rec.
1087, 1089-1090.
4 Cf., e. g., H. R. Rep. No. 143, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. 3, and- 91
Cong. Rec. 1442.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiam.

357 U. S.

cedes that this constitutional infirmity on the power of
the States does not operate to hinder state regulation of
the advertising practices of the respondents in the instant
cases. Whatever may have been the intent of Congress
with regad to interstate insurance practices which the
States cannot for constitutional reasons regulate effectively, that intent is irrelevant in the cases before us.
Respondents' advertising programs require distribution
by their local agents, and there is no question but that
the States possess ample means to regulate this advertising within their respective boundaries. Cf., e. g.,
Robertson v. California, 328 U. S.,440, 445, n. 6, 461.'
-Petitioner also argues in'a different vein that even
if the McCarran-Ferguson Act bars federal regulation
where state regulation has been effectively applied, the
exercise of Commission authority in these cases should
be upheld because the States have not "regulated" within
the meaning of the Section 2 (b) proviso. This argument is not persuasive in the instant cases. Each State
in question has enacted prohibitory legislation which
proscribes unfair insurance advertising and authorizes
enforcement through a scheme of administrative supervision., Petitioner does not argue that the statutory
provisions here under review were mere pretense. Rather,
it urges that a general prohibition designed to guarantee certain standards of conduct is too "inchoate"
to be "regulation" until that prohibition has been crystallized into "administrative elaboration of these standards
and application in individual cases." However, assum5See also Hoopeston,Canning Co. v. Cullen, 318 U. S. 313; Osborn
V. Ozlin, 310 U. S.53.
6At the time the complaints were filed thirty-six States had
enacted the "Model Unfair Trade Practices Bill for Insurance."
Eight, others had statutes essentially the same in effect as the "Model
Bill."

F. T. C. v. NATIONAL CASUALTY CO.
560

565

Per Curiam.

ing there is some difference in the McCarran-Ferguson
Act between "legislation" and "regulation," nothing in
the language of that Act or its legislative history supports
the distinctions drawn by petitioner. So far as we can
determine from the records and arguments in these cases,
the proviso in Section 2 (b) has been satisfied.
The judgments of the Courts of Appeals are
Affirmed.

