.106

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

natural and proper places for the dissemination of infdrmation and opinion; and one is not to have the exercise
of his liberty of expression in appropriate places abridged
on the plea that it may be exercised in some other place."
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161, 163; Hague v.
C. L 0., 307 U. S. 496, 515-162 The danger of breach
of the peace or serious invasion of rights of property or
privacy at the scene of a labor dispute is not sufficiently
imminent in. all cases to warrant the legislature in determining that such place is not appropriate for the range of
activities outlawed by § 3448.

Reversed.
3&, JUSTICE MCREYNOLDSiS of opinion that the judgment below should be affirmed.

CARLSON v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 667.

Argued February 29, March 1, 1940--Decided April 22,

1940.
A municipal ordinance making it unlawful for any person to carry
or display any sign, banner or badge in the vicinity of any
* place of business for the purpose of inducing %thers to refrain
from buying or working there, or for any person to "loiter" or
"picket" in the vicinity of any place of business for such purpose,
held unconstitutional upon the authority of Thornhill v. Alabama.
ante, p. 88.
Reversed.
The fact that the activities for which petitioner was arrested
and convicted took place on the private property of the Preserving
Company is without significance. Petitioner and the other employees
were never treated as trespassers;.as-suming that they could be where
the Company owns such a substantial part of the town. See p. 94,
supra. And § 3448, in any event, must be tested upon its face.

CARLSON v. CALIFORNIA\.
100

Argument for Appellee.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a conviction and
sentence under an anti-pickeiing ordinance.

Mr. Lee Pressman, with whom Messrs. Joseph Kovner
and AInthony Wlayne Smith were on the brief, foir
appellant.
Mr. Laurence W. Cart, pro hac vice, by special leave
of Court. for appellee.
The ordinance does not abridge freedom of speech or
of the press. A State may, in the exercise of its police
power, place reasonable regulations and restrictions upon
specific constitutional guarantees in the interest of public
peace. Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357; Gitlow v.
New York, 268 U. S. 652; Schenck v. United States,
249 U. S. 47. The limited regulation imposed by this
ordinance is reasonably calculated to promote the public
welfare!
Picketing" in its very nature is inimical to the public
welfare, as tending to breaches of the peace. Elkind &
Sons v. Reiail Clerks International Protective Assn., 169
A. 494; Pierce v. Stableenen's Union, 156 Cal. 70; Local
Union v. Stathakis, 135 Ark. 86; St. Germain.v. Bakery
Union, 97.Wash. 282; Lyle v. Local 4j, 174 Tenn. 222;
Keith Theatre v. Vachon, 187 A. 692; Truax v. Corrigan.
257 U. S. 312; Thomas v. Indianapolis,195 Ind. 440. See,
also, Thornhill v. Alabama, 189 So. 913; Hardie-Tynes
MIfg. Co. v. Cruise, 189 Ala. 66; Watters v. Indianapolis,
191 Ind. 671; Ex parte Stout, 82 Tex. Cr. Rep. 316;
People v. Gidaly, 3 Cal. Supp. 125.
Public benefits result from the ordinance: Removal
of obstructions from the public sidewalks, streets and
highways. Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. City of New York,
221 U. S. 467; Davis v. M1assachusetts, 167 U. S. 43;
Frendv. United States, 100 F. 2d 691.
Also, by preventing the congregation of partisans under
tense circumstances at the scene of a labor dispute, openly

i8

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Argument for Appellee.

310 U. S.

declaring their partisanship and disapproval- of the conduct of others, an occasion of violence is removed.
And the orainance protects business and those rightfully employed. Public tranquility is preserved. There
is no constitutional guarantee of the right to picket.
The only right guaranteed is a right to disseminate the
facts concerning a labor dispute without abusive and
arbitrary restriction.
Appellant must make an affirmative showing that the
ordinance in some way has-caused an arbitrary and unreasonable restrietion on the exercise of -his individual
right.
The constitutional guarantee of freedom of assemblage
-is not abridged. Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Presser
v. Illinois, 116 U. S 282.
Defendant is charged with, and admitted, "carrying
signs and banners" in violation of the ordinance. This
is a specific act clearly defined. Even if the term "picketing" were too broad or-too vague, nevertheless under the
saving clause in § 3, the use of such term will not invalidate the parl defining the-specific act of-which alpellant
was convicted. Distinguishing Schneider v. Irvington,
308 U. S. 147; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Hague v.
C.1. 0.,Q307 U. §. 496; Herndon-v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242;
DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 355; Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S. 47; Whitney v. California, 274 U. S.
357; Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697; Grosjean v. American Press Co.,
297 U. S. 233; Crandallv. Nevada, 73 U. S. 35; Senn v.
Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; Reno v. Second Judicial District Court, 95 P. 2d 994; People v. Harris,
91 P. 2d 989.
By leave of Court, Mr. Osmond K, Fraenkel filed a
brief on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.

CARLSON v. CALIFORNIA.
106

Ma

100

Opinion of the Court,
JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presehits the question whether regulations
embodied in a municipal ordinance abridge the freedom of
speechor of the press secured against state invasion by the
Fourteenth Amendment.1
Section 2 of an ordinance of Shasta County, California,
provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any person, in or upon any
public street, highway, sidewalk, alley 'or' other public
place in the County of Shasta, State of California, to loiter
in front of, or in the vicinity of, or to picket in front of, or
in the vicinity of, or to carry, show or display any banner,
transparency, badge or sign in front of, or in the vicinity of,
any works, or factory, or any place of business or employment, for the-purpose of inducing or influencing, or attempting to induce or influence, any person to refrain from
entering any such works, "or factory, or place of business,
or employment, or for the purpose of inducing or influencing, or attempting to induce or influence, any person to
refrain from purchasing or using any goods, wares, merchandise, or other articles, manufactured, made or kept
for sale therein, or for the purpose of inducing or influencing, or attempting to induce or influence, any person to refrain from doing or performing any service or labor in any
works, factory, place of business or employment, or for the
purpose of intimidating, threatening or coercing, or attempting to intimidate, threaten or coerce any person who
is performing, seeking or obtaining service or labor in any
such works, factory, place of business or employment."
is also 'well settled that municipal ordinances adopted under
state authority constitute state action and are within the prohibition
of the amendment:" Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 450; Schneider
v. State, 308 U. S. 147.
2
Section 1 declares that it shall be unlawful for any person "to
make any loud or unusual iioise, or to speak in a loud or unusual
1"It

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

-Appellant was one of a- group of twenty-nine men
engaged in "picketing" on U. S. Highway 99 in front
of the Delta Tunnel Project in Shasta County. "The
picketing consisted of Walking [on the edge of the highway nearest the project] adistance of 50 to 100 feet in
a general northerly direction, then turning around and
retracing steps and continuing as before . . . all of the
walking in connection with the picketing ... was done
off the paved portion of the highway and on the gravelled
portion of the right-of-way, that is, on public property."
Some of the pickets carried signs, similar- to those described in the margin.' in such ' manner that workers
on the project and persons going along the highway in
either direction could read them. The sign tarried by
appellant bore the legend: "This job is unfair to CIO."
These activities occurred between the hours of 7:30 and
9:00 a., m. During this period vehicles and persons
passed freely without any molestation or interference
through the picket, line from the highway to the project
and from the project to the highway, and the traffic of
persons and automobiles- along the highway was not obstructed. Appellant did not threaten or intimidate or
coerce anyone, did not make any loud noises at any time,
and was peaceful and orderly in his demeanor. The
tone, or to cry out or proclaim, for the purposes of inducing or influencing, or attempting to induce or influence, any person" to refrain
from, entering, or purchasing merchandise from, or tperforming any
service in, any place of business. The State did not charge that this
section was violated.
'Four signs were admitted in evidence as typical. They were of
white card board, approximately 14 x 22 inches in size, and were tacked
some 34 inches long, 1% inches wide and 1/4 inch
upon a
thick. Black painted letters, ranging in size from l i- inches to 5
inches in height, spelled out one of the following legends on each
sign: "Don't be a scab," "Shasta Tunnel and Construction Workers
Local #260, ' 7 "CIO Picket Line," "This job unfair to CIO.",
-stick

CARLSON v. CALIFORNIA.
106

Opinion of the Court.

pickets committed no acts of violence, and there was no
breach of the peace.
The county officers arrested appellant and charged that
he did "loiter, picket, and display signs and banners in
i public place and in and upon a public highway in front
of, and in the vicinity of the Delta Tunnel Project . . *
for the purpose of inducing and influencing persons to
refrain from doing and performing services and labor"
at the project in violation of the ordinance. The Justice's Court of Township Number Nine found him "guilty
of violating the Shasta County Anti-Picketing Law," rendered judgment accordingly, and imposed sentence. The
Superior Court of Shasta County affirmed the judgment.
That court upheld the ordinance, over appellant's claim
of unconstitutionality, on the authority of a prior
decision.4 The case comes here on appeal.'
Our decision in Thornhill v. Alabama, ante, p. 88, goes
far .toward -settling the issues presented here. Under
that decision, § 2 of the ordinance in question is to be
judged upon its face.0
Section 2 on its face declares it unlawful for any person
to carry or display any sign or banner or badge in the
vicinity of any place of business for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any person to refrain from

purchasing merchandise or performing services or labor.
It likewise makes it unlawful for any person to loiter or
'Appellant, prior to trial, moved to dismiss the complaint upon a
number of grounds, among which was the contention that § 2 of
the ordinance violated the Fourteenth Amendment in abridging his
"freedom of speech, freedom of press, and freedom of assembly."
The same objections were raised by demurrer, by further motions to
dismiss the complaint, and by motion in arrest of judgment.
There is no further appeal allowed in the state courts.'We do not decide whether, in view of the separability provision
(§ 3), the state courts might cull out from § 2 particular clauses
which, standing alone, could be sustained.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

-

310 U. S.

picket in the Vicinity of an-y place of business for a similar
purpose. The terms "loiter" and "picket" are not defined
either in the ordinance or in authoritative state decisions.
Therefore, they must be judged -as covering all the activities. embraced by the prohibition against the carrying of
signs in the vicinity of a labor dispute for the purpose
mentiQned.' The ordinance does- not proscribe the carrying of signs in other places or for the purpose of inducing
or attempting to induce others to adopt courses of action
not related to labor, disputes. It contains no exceptions
with -respect to the truthfulness and restraint of the information conveyed or the number of persons engaged in
the activity. . It is true that the ordinance requires proof
of a. purpose'to persuade others not to buy merchandise
or perform services. Such a purpose could be found in
the case of nearly every person engaged in publicizing
the facts of a labor dispute,- every employee or member
of a union who engaged in such activity in the vicinity
of a place of business could be found desirous of accomplishing such objectives; disinterested persons (who might
be hired to carry signs) appear to be a possible, but unlikely, exception.' In brief, the ordinance does not regulate all carrying of signs, but, -on the contrary, proscribes the carrying of signs only if by persons directly
interested who approach.the vicinity of a labor dispute
to convey information about the dispute.
The sweeping and inexact terms of the ordinance disclose the threat to freedom of speech inherent in its existence. It cannot be thought to differ in any material respect from the statute held void in Thornhill's case. The
carrying of signs and banners, no less than the raising
of a flag, is a natural and appropriate means of conveySee Thornhill v. Alabama, ante, p. 101, n. 18.
'Even they would be covered under a construction making purpose
synonymous with intent. See Thornhill v. Alabama, ante, p. 100, n. 17.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL'CO.
100

Syllabus.

ing information on matters of public coicern. Stromberg
v. California,283 U. S. 359. For the reasons set. forth in
our opinion in Thornhill v. Alabama, supra, publicizing
the facts of a labor dispute in a peaceful way through
appropriate means, whether by pamphlet, by word of
mouth or by banner, must now- be regarded as withinthat
liberty of communication .which is secured to every person by the Fourteenth Amendment against abridgment
by a State.
The power and duty of the State to take adequate steps
to preserve the peace and protect the privacy, the lives,
and the property of its residents cannot be doubted.
But the ordinance in question here abridges liberty of
discussion under circumstances presenting no clear and

present danger of substantive evils within the allowable
area of state control.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYINOLDS is of opinion
ment below should be affirmed.

that the judg-

PERKINS. SECRETARY OF LABOR, ET
LUKENS STEEL CO. ET AL.

AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 593.

Argued April 3, 1940.-Decided April 29, 1940.

The Publie Contract., Act of June 30, 1936, requires that all contrtcts with the United States for the manufacture or furnishing

of materials (in amounts exceeding S10,000) shall include a -tipulation that all persons employed by the contractor in the manifacture or furnishing of such materials will be paid not less than
the prevailing minimum wages "as determined by the Secretary
of Labor... for persons employed ... in the particular or similar
industries... in the locality." Producers of iron and steel sought
to enjoin the Secretary of Labor, and other officials and agents
authorized to make purchases for the Government, from con-

