ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
Counsel for Parties.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
No. 9, Original. Argued April 23, 1940.-Decided June 3, 1940.
1. Land on the Arkansas side of the Mississippi River was cut off
by a sudden change of the river's course, in 1821, and became
attached to the Tennessee side. Held:
(1) That it subsequently became a part of Tennessee as the result
of long and continuous exercise by that State of dominion and
jurisdiction over it-with the acquiescence of Arkansas. P. 566.
(2) That an addition to this area, caused by gradual accretion
from the river, was also subject to the Tennessee jurisdiction.
P. 572.
2. The principle of -prescription and acquiescence is applicable in the
determination of boundaries between States. P. 569.
3. The rule of the thalweg rats upon equitable considerations and is
intended to safeguard to each State equality of access and right of
navigation in the stream. The rule yields to the doctrine that a
boundary is unaltered by an avulsion; and" in such case, in the
absence of prescription, the boundary no longer follows the thalweg
-but remains at the original line. P. 571.
4. The doctrine as to the effect of an avulsion may become inapplicable
when it is established that there has been acquiescence in a longcontinued and uninterrupted assertion of dominion and jurisdiction
over the area affected. P. 571.
5. The question whether a State has acquired political jurisdiction by
prescription is not affected by the circumstance that the title to
the area is in the United States, such title not being disputed.
P. 571.
Exceptions overruled; report confirmed; and decree ordered.

Upon exceptions to the report of a Special Master, appointed in an original boundary suit (301 U. S. 666)
between the States of Arkansas and'Tennessee.
Mr. D. Fred Taylor, Jr., with whom Messrs. Jack Holt,
Attorney General of Arkansas, A. F. Barham, Harvey G.
Combs, and D,. F. Taylor were on the brief, for plaintiff.
Messrs. Nat Tipton and C. M. Buck, with whom Messrs.
Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General of Tennessee, and Edwin
F. Hunt were on the brief, for defendant.

564

-OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

310 U. S.

delivered the opinion- of

the Court.
The State of Arkansas brought this suit against the
State of Tennessee seeking a decree determining the true
boundary between the States at certain points and confirming the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the State of
Arkansas over the described territory.
The bill of complaint set forth two counts. The first
count presented the contentions of Arkansas as to the
boundary in relation to an area known as "Needham's
Island," later as "Cutoff Island" or "Moss Island," and
to a contiguous formation known as "Blue Grass Towhead." This is the only area which remains in controversy, as the parties have agreed by stipulation upon the
boundary line to be fixed in relation to the land described
in the second count.
Tennessee answered, contesting the claims of Arkansas
and asserting by cross-bill its jurisdiction and sovereignty
over the territory in question.
The issues were referred to Monte M. Lemann as Special.Maste-. 301 U. S.666. The Master has filed a careful and comprehensive report recommending a decree in
favor of Tennessee as to the area described in count one,
and in accordance with the stipulation as to that described
in count two. The case has been heard upon that report
and the exceptions filed by Arkansas.
The Master set forth the following facts as agreed upon
by the parties:
"Prior to 1821, the land in controversy in this suit
was on the west bank of the Mississippi River and the
main channel of the river flowed to the east thereof. At
the location involved in this suit, the river at that time
flowed around a twelve mile bend caused by the extension
of a peninsula into the river from the western shore.
In 1821 an avulsion took place in the course of the river

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
563

Opinion of the Court.

occasioned by the waters cutting across the neck of this
peninsula at a point where it had become only half a mile
wide due to caving of the river banks. At the present
time the main channel of the Mississippi River flows to
the west of the lands in controversy and has so flowed
for many years prior to the present. The original channel of the river is now, and has for many years been,
filled up so that the island originally created by the avulsion is now, and has for many years been, physically
connected to, and a part of, the eastern shore of the
river.).
After a review of the evidence upon points in dispute,
the Master made a sumniary of his findings and conclusions as follows:
"(1) The Territory of Arkansas was organized by Act
of March 2, 1819, 3 Stat. 493, being carved out of the Territory of Missouri, which was a part of the Louisiana
Purchase, and the eastern boundary of the Territory was
the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi
River.
"(2) In 1819 the lands in controversy were on the
west side of the main channel of the river and were part
of the Territory of Arkansas.
"(3) The avulsion at Needham's Cutoff occurred in
1821.
"(4) The main channel of the river flowed through
the cutoff prior to 1836.
"(5) Arkansas.was admitted into the Union on June
15, 1836, 5 Stat. 50, and its eastern boundary was fixed
at the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi
River.
"(6) On June 15, 1836, when Arkansas was admitted
into the Union, the lands in controversy were on the
east side of the main channel of the Mississippi River..
"(7) The avulsion did not change the boundary line
theretofore existing between Tennessee. and. the Territory
of Arkansas.

566

OCTQBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

"(8) The Act of Congress of June 15, 1836, admitting
Arkansas into the Union, did not have the effect of excluding from the boundaries of' the State of Arkansas
lands which immediately prior to the adoption of the Act
were within the Territory of Arkansas.
"(9) Tennessee was admitted into the Union on June
1, 1796, 1 Stat. 491, c. 47. Its western boundary was the
middle of the main channel of the Mississippi River.
The lands in controversy were in 1796 on the west of the
main channel of the river.
"(10) The Act of June 15, 1836, 5 Stat. 50, admitting
Arkansas into the Union, .did not have the effect of enlarging the boundaries of Tennessee.
"(11) From 1826 to the date of the filing of this suit,
Tennessee has continuously exercised dominion and jurisdiction over the lands in controversy.
"(12) Arkansas has acquiesced in Tennessee's exercise
of dominion and jurisdiction.
"(13) The lands described in Count One of the complaint are now within the boundaries of Tennessee as a
result of prescription. Blue Grass Towhead, which has
been formed by gradual processes and is attached to Moss
Island, is likewise now within the boundaries of
Tennessee."
The exceptions of Arkansas to the Master's report
present for the most part questions of law. *Arkansas
contends that its true eastern boundary at the place in
controversy was determined by the rule of the thaweg,
being the middle of the main channel of navigation of
the Mississippi River as it existed when the Treaty of
Peace bttween the United States and Great Britain was
concluded in 1783, subject to such subsequent changes as
occurred through natural and gradual processes. Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158; Arkansas v. Mississippi,
250 U. S. 39; Arkansas v. Mississippi, 252 U. S. 344.
The Master supports that contention with respect to the

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
563

Opinion of the Court.

original boundary of the Territory of Arkansas, and also
the contention that the avulsion of 1821 did not change
the boundary line theretofore existing between Tennessee
and the Territory of Arkansas; and, further, the Master
holds that the Act of 1836 admitting Arkansas into the
Union did not operate to exclude from its boundaries
the lands which immediately before were within the
Territory of Arkansas or to enlarge the boundaries of
Tennessee.
Despite these conclusions, the Master is of the opinion
that the area in question should now be deemed to be
within the boundaries of Tennessee by virtue of prescription and the acquiescence on the part of Arkansas in the
exercise by Tennessee of dominion and jurisdiction over
that area. Upon that question of fact, the Master found
that Tennessee had continuously exercised that dominion.
and jurisdiction from the year 1826 to the time of the
bringing of the present suit. In support of this finding,
the Master thus summarized the evidence:
"The contemporary evidence shows that as early as
1823 entries of the land were being made under the authority of Tennessee and surveys were made under
authority of Tennessee as early as 1824. Witnesses sixtyfive, seventy-eight and eighty-four years old testified before me that the inhabitants of the island always voted
in Tennessee elections; were. taxed by Tennessee, married
by Tennessee Justices of the Peace, required to do road
work under Tennessee authority, educated upon the
island in a school operated by Tennessee. The records
of Dyer County, Tennessee, showed that assessments on
the lands in controversy for local taxes were made by
Tennessee authorities and land taxes paid to Tennessee
as far back as 1870, prior to which records are missing.
Tennessee Exhibit 42 shows a tax sale by a Tennessee
sheriff in 1849 covering lands on the island. The bill of
exceptions inft.he case of Moss v. Gibbs, shows testimony

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

in that case that as far back as 1826 Tennessee assessed
the lands on the cutoff island, collected the taxes on them
and served process there. The opinion of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee in Moss v. Gibbs [1872] 57 Tenn. 283
recites these facts as proven therein."
The Mastet added that if he was mistaken in thinking
it proper to consider the depositions and opinion in Moss
v. Gibbs as affording evidence in this case, "the testimony taken before me and the other documentary evidence, consisting >f certified copies of entries, surveys and
patents, is, in my judgment, sufficient to prove Tennessee's long and uninterrupted exercise of dominion and
jurisdiction over the lands in controversy."
The Master was equally explicit in finding that the
record showed the acquiescence of Arkansas in this assertion of dominion by Tennessee. On tlis point his report
states:
"There is no showing that Arkansas ever asserted any.
claim to the land in controversy prior to the institution
of this suit. The lands were never surveyed or granted
by Arkansas. In 1848 the United States Surveyor of
Public Lands in Arkansas wrote to the General Land
Office in Washington that he had been called upon to
survey the lands on the cutoff island. He received a
reply authorizing him to proceed with the survey of the
island 'more especially if it is not claimed by the State
of Tennessee.' But no survey was ever made. On October 10th, 1935, application was filed with the Commissioner of State Lands of Arkansas for the purchase of
Blue Grass Toivhead, but no action was taken thereon.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee in Moss
v. Gibbs, 57 Tenn. 283, was published in the year 1872
and made the claims of Tennessee a matter of public
notoriety."
There was slight, if any, controversy as to the facts
upori the hearing at this bar. The findings of the Master

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
563

Opinion of the Court.

with respect to the exercise of dominion and jurisdiction
by Tennessee and as to the acquiescence therein of Arkansas are fully supported by the record, and we must
determine the cause upon that basis.
The contentions of Arkansas in opposition to the application of the principle of prescription and acquiescence
in determining the boundary between States cannot be
sustained. That principle has had repeated recognition
by this Court. In Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,4 How.
591, 639, the Court said: "No human transactions are -unaffected by time. Its influence is seen on all things subject to change. And this is peculiarly the case in regard.
to matters which rest in memory and which consequently
fade with the lapse of time, and fall with the lives of individuals. For the security of rights, whether of states
or individuals, long possession under a claim of title is
protected. And there is no controversy in which this
great principle may be involved with greater justice and
propriety than in a case of disputed boundary." Applying this principle in Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479,
510, to the long acquiescence in the exercise by Kentucky
of dominion and jurisdiction over the land there in controversy, the Court said: "It is a principle of public law
universally recognized, that long acquiescence in the
possession of territory and in the exercise of dominion
and sovereignty over it, is conclusive of the nation's title
and rightful authority." Again, in Louisiana v. Mississippi,202 U. S. 1, 53, the Court observed: "The question
is one of boundary, and this Court has many times heldthat, as between the States of the Union, long acquiescence in the assertion of a particular boundary and the
exercise of dominion and sovereignty over the territory
within it, should be accepted as conclusive whatever the
international rule might be in respect of the acquisition
by prescription of large tracts of country claimed by
both." See, also, Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503,

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

523; Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 41-44;
Vermont v. New Hampshire, 289 U. S. 593, 613.
In Michigan v. Wisconsin,270 U. S. 295, 308, the Court
thus referred to the. recognition of this principle in international law, saying: "That rights of 'the character here
claimed may be acquired on the one hand and lost on the
other by open, long-continued and uninterrupted possession of territory, is a doctrine not confined to individuals
but applicable to sovereign nations as well, Direct United
States Cable' Co. v. Anglo-American Telegraph Co.,
[1877] L. R. 2 A. C. 394, 421; Wheaton, International
Law, 5th Eng. Ed., 268-269; 1 Moore, International Law
Digest, 294 et seq., and, a fortiori, to the quasi-sovereign
States of the Union." Prescription in international law,
says Oppenheim, may be defined -as "the acquisition of
sovereignty over a territory through continuous and undisturbed exercise of sovereignty over it during such a
period as is necessary to"create under the influence of
historical development the general conviction that the
present condition of- things is in conformity with international order." And thus he finds that prescription
in international law "has the same rational basis as prescription in municipal law-namely, the creation of
stability of order." Oppenheim, International Law, 5th
Ed., pp.455,456. See, also, Hall, International Law, 8th
Ed., pp. 143, 144; Hyde, International Law, ยง 116.
This principle of prescription and acquiescence, when
there is a sufficient basis of fact for its application, so
essential to the "stability of order" as between the States
of the Union, is in no way disregarded or impaired by our
decisions in Arkansas v. Tennessee, supra, and Arkansas
v. Mississippi, supra, upon which counsel for Arkansas
rely. In those cases the evidence fell short 6f the proof
of long acquiescence which was necessary to warrant the
application of the principle and there was no such show-

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
563

Opinion of the Court.

ing of acts of dominion and jurisdiction as are shown on
the part of Tennessee in the instant case.
On behalf of Arkansas it is argued that the rule of the
thalweg is of such dominating character that it meets and
overthrows the defense of prescription and acquiescence.
That position is untenable. The rule of the thaweg
rests upon equitable considerations and is intended to
safeguard to each State equality of access and right of
navigation in the stream. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1,
7, 8; Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U. S. 273, 281, 282;
Wisconsin v. Michigan,295 U. S. 455, 461; New Jersey v.
Delaware, 291 U. S. 361, 380. The rule yields to the'
doctrine that a boundary is unaltered by an avulsion and
in such case, in the absence of prescription, the boundary
no longer follows the thalweg but remains at the original
line although now on dry land because the old channel
has filled up. Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359, 367;
Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23, 36; Arkansas v.
Tennessee, supra, pp. 173, 174. And, in turn, the.
doctrine as to the effect of an avulsion may become inapplicable when it is established that there has been acquiescence in a long-continued and uninterrupted assertion
of dominion and jurisdiction over a given area. Here that
fact has been established and the original rule of the
thalweg no longer. applies.
The contention is also pressed that the defense of prescription is unavailable upon the ground that the title to
the land in controversy is in the United States; that the
land is still unsurveyed land of the United States; and,
hence, that the defense of adverse possession could not be
good against Arkansas as she did not have title. But
the question in this suit is not one of title to particular
land but of boundaries and of political jurisdiction as
between Arkansas and Tennessee. Tennessee is making
no claim against the United States. No title of the

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S

United States to lands within the boundaries of either
State is here in question or is here determined. The
ruling of the Master in overruling this contention is
sustained.
A special point is urged as to the area known as "Blue
Grass Towhead." As to this area, the Master found:
"Blue Grass Towhead is a formation adjoining Moss
Island (the cutoff island) on the west thereof, which has
been formed since the year 1916 by the gradual processes
of the river and is now attached physically to the eastern
shore of the river. Insofar as this formation is in controversy in the present litigation, I am of the opinion that
it also is subject to the jurisdiction of Tennessee, as it
was formed by gradual processes and is attached to Moss
Island; see Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158, 173."
It seems clear -that as Moss Island by prescription and
acquiescence must be deemed to be part of the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of Tennessee, this addition by
gradual processes should be treated as part of Moss
Island and as subject to the same jurisdiction.
The exceptions of Arkansas to the Master's report are
overruled and the report is in all respects confirmed.
Decree will be entered accordingly, providing:
(1) That the claims of Arkansas to the lands described
in count one be rejected and the claims- of Tennessee
thereto be maintained, and that the boundary line between the States at the point to which count one refers
be fixed at the middle of the main channel of navigation
in the Mississippi River as it existed at the date of the
filing of the bill of complaint herein.
,(2) That the boundary between Arkansas and Ten.nessee at the point described in count two of the bill
of complaint be fixed in accordance with the stilulation
entered into by the parties, and that a commissioner be
appointed to mark the boundary line as set out in the
stipulation by placing three suitable markers along the

RAILROAD COMMISSION v. OIL CO.
563

Syllabus.

line and a fourth one on sufficiently high ground to be
used in locating the other three in the event that they
should be covered by wvater, moved or destroyed.
(3) That costs be equally divided between the States.
becree may be settled on notice.
It is-so ordered.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS

ET AL. V.

ROWAN & NICHOLS OIL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 681. Argued April 24, 25, 1940.-Decided June 3, 1940.
An order of a state commission for limiting and prorating the production of an oil field, fixed the maximum allowable to any well at
2.32% of its "hourly potential," but gave to "marginal" wells-those
which, if their low capacity were curtailed, would have to be prematurely abandoned-a special status, Allowing each of them production
up to twenty barrels per day. Because of the large number of such
low-capacity wells, approximately 385,000 barrels, out of a total
daily "allowable" of 522,000 barrels for the entire field, were exempt
from the "hourly potential" formula. A company whose wells were
favorably situated and capable of large production, but.were allowed
by the formula a daily production of but twenty-two barrels each,
claimed that the, regulation disregarded its right to the oil in place
within its ground; that it permitted others undue opportunity to
capture oil draining from its ground; that the "potential" method
failed to give sufficient weight to relevant factors in the measurement
of oil in place, especially to the depth of the company's reserves;
that only an allocation based upon acre-feet of the oil sand, or its
equivalent, would be reasonable; that the order was, in effect, an
allocation on a flat per-well basis, regardless of great variation in
the capacity of wells and the density of well drilling on different
tracts; that excessive drillings allowed by the commission as exceptions to its general spacing rule, enabled dens~ly drilled tracts, by
virtue of the "marginal" allowances, to drain away the company's
reserves; and that, for these reasons, the company's property was
taken without due proce of law. Held:

