354

OCTOBER TERM,, 1939.
Syllabus.

310U. S.

from the Commission's power to protect and maintain
a transportation system.free from partiality to particular
shippers. The Commission acted in its capacity as a publiec agency and carried out duties imposed upon it by
Congress in the interest of shippers generally, the national
transportation system and the public interest." Its order
was the embodiment of the Commission's judgment that
the proposed tariff was a discrimination prohibited by the
Act. "The judgment so exercised, being supported by
ample evidence, is conclusive." 2
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
bill is ordered dismissed.
Reversed.
EX PARTE BRANSFORD, COUNTY TREASURER
OF PIMA COUNTY, ARIZONA, ETC.
.No. -, Original.

Argued April 23, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

1. Mandamus is proper to review error of a district court in refusing to call in additional ju.dges, under Jud. Code § 266, in a suit.
praying an interlocutory injunction against state officers. P. 355.
2. The application for mandamus may be made by one of several
defendants. P. 356.
3. A suii by a national bank to enjoin tbe collection of a state tax
is not a suit to restrain the enforcement of a statute of the State
"upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of such statute," within
the meaning of Jud. Code § 266, where the bill makes no attack upon
the state legislation involved but alleges that state dfficials have
misconstrued it and have made an assessment which is unconstitutional because excessive and discriminatory and which is also invalid
because it discriminates against national bank shares in violation of
R-. S. § 5219, and includes preferred- shares of the bank owned bythe Reconstruetion Finance Corporation, which are exempt under
the Act of Congress of March 20, 1936. P. 357.
A petition for an injunction on, the ground of the unconstitutionality of -a.statute as applied, which requires a three-judge court,
" Cf. Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157.
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 525, 526.

EX PARTE BRANSFORD.
354

Opinion of the Opurt.

is to be distinguished from one based on the alleged unconstitutionality of the result obtained by the use of a statute which is not
attacked as unconstitutional. The latter does not require a
three-judge court, its attack being aimed at allegedly erroneous
administrative action.

Motion denied.

On a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
mandamus and on the respondent's return to a rule to
show cause.
Mr. GeraldJones, with whom Mr. John Mercer Johnson
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. L. Gust for David W. Ling, U. S. District Judge,
respondent.

MR. JUsTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The county treasurer and ex-officio tax collector of
Pima County, Arizona, moves to file a tendered petition
for a writ of mandamus to be directed to District Judge
Ling of the federal district court for that state. A rule to
show cause has issued and the return -has been made.
Petitioner, a county treasurer, and other officials are defendants together with their counties, in a suit brought
in the district court by the Valley National Bank in which
the Bank is seeking an interlocutory and permanent injunction against the collection of certain taxes by the
counties. The district judge has ruled that he will hear
the case while sitting alone and petitioner contends that
under § 266 of the Judicial Code he is entitled to have the
case heard before three judges. Mandamus is the proper
remedy."Arizona taxes shares of bank stock in the name of the
2
shareholders and requires the bank to pay for them.
Ex parte Williams, 277 U. S.267, 269; Strattonv. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 282 U. S. 10, 16.
'Revised Code of Arizona, 1928, §§ 3069-71.

OCTOB-tR TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Assessments are made in the first instance by county assessors, with an appeal allowed first to a county and then
to a state board of equalization. The state board returns
the final assessment with a levy of the rate for state purposes to the county supervisors. This body adds the
several local rates and places the assessment upon the tax
roll. Collection is performed by the county treasurer,3
and the taxes collected ard apportioned between state and
county.' Where a bank is doing business in several counties the value of its stock is apportioned among the counties in accordance with the assets located in each.' Because other property in the state has been under-assessed
the state board in 1935 ordered that bank shares be valued
at 75% of capital stock, surplus and undivided profit.
Assets, .borrowings, deposits and other liabilities are
disregarded.
The petitioner is the only defendant to apply for
mandamus. As the issuance of such an order depends
on the jurisdiction of the single district judge, sitting
alone, over the suit pending in the district court, this is
sufficient. As the issues with this petitioner in that suit
include those with all other defendants, we do not need
to state the issues arising with the officials -of counties
other than Pima. The Bank states its controversy with
the petitioner arose in the following manner. The Bank
had branches in, several counties. It had common capital stock, a surplus and undivided profits. Also the Bank
had an issue of preferred which it had sold to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation prior to the time of the
1935 assessment at the par value of $1,240,000 and which
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation still owns.
Taking the position that the preferred owned by the Reconstruction Financd" Corporation could not be taxed,
-'Id.,§ 3110.
'Id., § 3111.
.Id., § 3

EX PARTE BRANSFORD.
354

Opinion of ihe Court.

the Bank reported a total value of $524,629.50, 75% of
$699,026 (the amount of its common, surplus, undivided
profits and reserves), as the total taxable value of its
shares, and apportioned this among the counties according to the assets there located. On this basis $139,088.80,
26.53% of its total taxable value, was apportioned to
Pima County. The assessor of Pima County made an
assessment of $327,590, the "actual cash value of the real
and personal prbperty" situated in Pima County. By
agreement of the parties, the Bank paid. the'amount
which under its computation was due Pima County, the
right to litigate the validity of the county's assessment
being reserved. Subsequently, the petitioner having
threatened to institute proceedings to enforce the county's assessment, the Bank -brought its suit in the district
court to enjoin collection.
The Bank by its bill in the district court seeks an injunction upon several grounds. We are of the opinion
that none of these compels the trialjudge to call a threejudge court under § 266.
The assessment in Pima County. was made in the
amount of the value of the Bank's real estate and personal
property. It is therefore, says the Bank, imposgible to tell
whether the assessment is the valuation of the property;
the proportion of the value of the common stock alone or
that of the aggregate of the common and preferred. An
assessment upon the property, it is alleged, is "void as
unauthorized by the statutes of Arizong." If the.valuation
includes -the preferred stock, the complaint alleges it is
irivalid because of the Act of March 20, 1936, exempting
the preferred stock while owned by the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation. If the valuation is upon the common stock alone, it is said to be invalid (1) because the
valuation -isfar beyond the actual value and therefore
confiscatory and (2) because the valuation is discrimina'49 Stat. 1185:

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

tory since the common stock in other banks is assessed at
75% of the value of common stock, surplus and undivided
profits and other classes of property at sixty per cent of its
actual value, while this valuation is on the basis of approximately twice the common stock, surplus and undivided
profits of the bank and twice its actual value. It is further alleged that this excessive and discriminatory valuation violates R. S. § 5219 which limits the rate of taxation
of national bank shares to that assessed "upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens . . .
coming into competition with the business of national
banks." It is prayed that action under these assessments
for the reasons stated be enjoined as'violative of the Constitution and laws of the United States and Arizona.
Section 266 lays down as one of the requirements for a
three-judge court that the injunction against the officer of
the state to restrain the enforcement, operation or execution of the state statute must be sought "upon the ground
of the unconstitutionality of such statute."
In so far as it is alleged that the assessments are void
because unauthorized by the Arizona statute, the injunction sought is obviously not upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of the state statute as tested by the
Federal Constitution.
The allegations that the assessments should be enjoined
because violative of the statute exempting preferred stock
owned by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and
R. S. § 5219 depend upon no constitutional -provision
within the meaning of Judicial Code § 266. If such assessments are invalid, it is because they levy taxes upon
property withdrawn from taxation by federal law I or in
a manner forbidden by the National Banking Act.8 The

'Pittnn v. Home Owners' Corp., 308

U. S. 21.

'R. S. § 5219; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.

6rA4, 668.

EX PARTE BRANSFORD.
354

Opinion of the Court.

declaration of the supremacy clause 9 gives superiority to
valid federal acts over conflicting state statutes but this
superiority for present purposes involves merely the construction of an act of Congress, not the constitutionality
of the state enactment. This was decided as to § 266 in
Ex parteBuder, 0 and before that a similar result had been
reached in Lemke v. FarmersGrain.Company " in regard
to a provision of the Judicial Code granting direct appeal
to this Court in cases where the sole issue " was the unconstitutionality of a state statute."3
It is said, however, that the allegations of contiscation
and discrimination in valuation of the common shares in
comparison with the stock of other banks and other property show the injunction is sought upon the ground of the
unconstitutionality of the statute. This point depends
upon excessive valuation of the shares. The validity of
the statute itself is not involved. Variations by assessors
in valuations of like property, taxable under the same
statute, sufficiently marked to be discriminatory under
the Constitution or valuations so large as to be confiscatory
cannot properly be said to be the basis-for attack on the
ground of the unconstitutionality of the statute. Such
assessments, if made and if invalid, are so because of a
wrong done by officers under the statute rather than because of the requirement of the statute itself. '
But it is said by the petitioner here that the last
sentence of § 3071 requires this excessive and discriminaSArt. VI, c. 2: "This Constitution, and the Laws of the United
States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; . . . shall be
.
the supreme Law of the Land
271 U. S. 461, 465-66.
'258 U. S. 50, 52.
"Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 407.
12See D. A. Beard Truck Line Co. v. Smith, 12 F. Supp. 964.
"Cf. Ex parte Wil/iams, 277 U. S. 267, 271; Jett Bros. Co. v.
Carrollton,252 U. S. 1, 5.

-360

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

tory assessment. That sentence reads: "When a bank
maintains branches' or 'conducts business in more than
one county, city or town, the assessed value of the capital stock shall be appbrtioned among the several coun,ties, cities and towns -in which the main office or such
branches are maintained or business conducted, and the
amount apportioned to each county, city or town shall
not be less than the actual cash value of the real and
personal property of such bank situated in such county,
city or town." If this is interpreted as requiring that the
apportionment of the value of the capital stock to each
county must not, be less than the tangible property in
that county, the aggregate apportionmenit may be much
larger than the assessed value of the stock. A greater
assessment per share will occur if the total valuation is
allocated to common shares only. If the valuation,
reached under the formula by treating the preferred as
capital stock, is allocated among the common shares, only,
it would mean that the preferred was treated as stock for
purposes of the valuati6n and disregarded for the assessment of individual shares. The argument of petitioner
is that if the result, as he contends the Bank alleges,
violates the Federal Constitution by discrimination of
common shares as compared to shares of other bank
without preferred stock or owners of other property, the
statute violates it. Therefore, in effect, the attack on
the constitutionality of the assessment is an attack on
the constitutionality of the statute.
The contention of the Bank, however, is that the assessor misinterpreted the statute; that the objectionable
aspect of the assessment is the attribution to the common
of the whole amount instead of an apportionment to both
preferred and common or the use- of the preferred as
capital stock in the' state valuation formula. We are not
now called upon to reach any conclusion upon the meanifig of the Arizona tax statutes. If the trial court deter-

EX PARTE BRANSFORD.
354

Opinion of the Court.

mines' that the assessment complained of is made
properly under the statute arid that by the statute the
assessment is to be prorated among the common shares,
it would determine only a question of statutory construction. It is necessary to distinguish between a petition
for injunction on the ground of the unconstitutionality
of a statute as applied, which requires a three-judge
court, and a petition which seeks an injunction on the
ground of the unconstitutionality of the result obtained
by the use of a statute which is not attacked as unconstitutional. The latter petition does not-require a threejudge court." In such a case the attack is aimed at an
allegedly erroneous administrative action." Until the
complainant in the district court attacks the constitutionality of the statute' the case does not require the
convening of a three-judge court, any more than if the
complaint did not seek an interlocutory injunction. 8
Where by an omission to attack the constitutionality of a
state statute, its validity is admitted for the purposeg of
the bill, a determination by the trial court that the assessment accords with the statute would result in the refusal
of the injunction and the dismissal of the bill. Jurisdiction, properly assumed, may be lost by the special court,
when it appears that a prerequisite such as need for relief
against state.officers is lacking."' Even where the statute
is attacked as unconstitutional, § 266 is inapplicable
unless the action complained of is directly attributable
to the statute2 0 There is no indication that Congress
sought by § 266 to have every attack on the constitutionality of a state statute determined by a three-judge court.
Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry., 282 U. S. 10.
"Ex parte Hobbs, 280 U. S. 168.
"Ex parte Wilams, supra.
I' Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry., 282 U. S. 10, 15.
':Oklahoma Gas Co v. Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 391.
'Ex parte Collins, Ti U. S. 565, 567, 569. -

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

It sought such a bench only to avoid precipitate determinations on constitutionality on motions for interlocutory
injunctions.
As the foregoing ground adequately disposes of the
petition for mandamus, we do not discuss the other
reasons for refusal urged by the Bank.
The motion to file the petition for mandamus is
Denied.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. BROWNING ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO.THE SUPREME COURT*OF TENNESSEE.

No. 789. Argued April 30, May 1, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
1. In the absence of special circumstances rendering it inapplicable
to the particular case, the mileage basis affords an appropriate
method, consistent with' the Commerce Clause, 'of apportioning
the value of an interstate railroad system among. the several States
in which it functions, for the purpose of taxation. Arithmetical
precision in the apportionment is not essential to its validity.
P. 365.
The judgment of state taxing, authorities and courts upholding
a use of the mileage basis, despite evidence of different earning
capacities of lines of the railroad in and out of the State,--acepted
in this case.
2. Upon review of a decree of a state court sustaining a tax assessment of a rail'road over the objection thatunconstitutional discrimination resulted from systematic assessment of railroads and other
public utilities at full value'and undervaluation of all other kinds
of property, this Court declines to examine, the minutes of the
state board of 6qualization, not in the record but proffered here
for the first time in the litigation, in order to learn whether the
.sfate court was correct in presuming that disparities of assessment
had,been equalized, as required by the state law. P. 366.
3 T* Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment permits
a ste to classify the property of railroads and other public utilities
separately from other property and to'tax it higher. P. 367.

