SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
Syllabus.

SUNSHINE ANTHRACITE COAL CO. v. ADKINS,
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 804. Argued April 29, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
1. The 192% tax imposed by § 3 (b) of the Bituminous Coal Conservation Act (1937) on sales of such coal by producers, "which
would be subject to the application of the conditions and provisions'
of the code provided for in § 4, or of the provisions of § 4A," applies
to producers who. are not members of the code, although under § 4
the provisions of the code are for code members only. P. 391.
A contrary construction would read the 191/2% tax out of the
Act, (since by § 3 (b) code members are exempt from it); the essential sanction of the Act would then disappear and its effectiveness
would be seriously impaired. Section 4 is made expressly applicable
"only to matters and transactions in or directly affecting interstate
commerce." It seems plain that the tax was intended to apply
only to those sales by non-code members which "would be" subject
to regulation under § 4. P. 392.
2. The constitutionality of the Act is upheld over the contentions that
the 19 % tax is not a tax but a penalty; that Congress lacks power
to fix minimum prices for bituminous coal sold in interstate commerce; that there has been an invalid delegation of legislative and
judicial power; and that the division of bituminous coal into code
and non-code classes is improper, Pp. 393' et seq.
3. The taxing power of Congress may be used as a sanction for the
exercise of another granted power. P. 393.
4. The regulatory provisions of the Act are within the commerce power;
they apply only to sales or transactions in, or intimately affecting,
interstate commerce. P. 393.
5. Price control is a means available to Congress for the protection and
promotion of the public economy. P. 394.
Courts are not concerned with the wisdom, pdlicy or appropriateness of this legislation. But the state of the bituminous coal industry
and its history and public importance, plainly support the judgment
of Congress that price-fixing and the elinnation of unfair competitive
practices were appropriate methods for prevention of the financial
ruin, low wages, poor working conditions, strikes, and disruption of
the channels of trade which followed in the wake of the demoralized
price structures. P. 394.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

6. Congress may modify the prohibitions of the Sherman Act by
placing the machinery of price-fixing in the hands of public agencies.
P. 396.
7. Congress may single out a-particular industry and remove as to it
the penalties of the Sherman Act. P. 396.
8. The commerce clause empowers Congress to stabilize an interstate
industry through a.process of price-fixing which safeguards the public
interest by placing price-control in the hands of its administrative
representative. P. 396.
9. The standards specified by § 4, II (c) of the Bituminous Coal Act
to control the Commission in fixing maximum and minimum prices
binding code members, are adequate, and there is no invalid delegation of legislative power. P. 397.
10. In the matter of price-making, code members are subordinated
by the Act to the Commission, so that there is no delegation of
legislative authority to the industry. P. 399.
11. The definition of bituminous coal in the Act, § 17 (b), is
adequate as a standard for the Commission's action in determining what coal is subject to the Act. P. 399.
12. The Act makes no invalid delegation of judicial power to the
Commission for determining whether a particular coal producer
falls within its provisions; and it grants sufficient judicial review.
P. 400.
13. A contention that the Act, by classifying the coal as code and
non-code and applying the 191/2% tax to the latter alone, violates
the Fifth Amendment, is rejected, since the procedural features
satisfy due process, and the Fifth Amendment has no equal protection clause; nor is uniformity required by the commerce clause.
P. 400.
14. A judgment sustaining on review a determination by the Bituminous Coal Commission that a producer's coal is "bituminous" within
the meaning of § 17 (b) of the Bituminous Coal Conservation
Act, thus subjecting him to the 191'/g%tax laid on sales by producers who have not joined the code, is res udicata'in a suit by
the producer to enjoin the Commissioner of Internal-Revenue from
collecting the tax. P. 401.
15. Where Congress has created a special administrative procedure
for determining the status of persons and companies under a
regulatory Act, and has prescribed a procedure satisfying due
process, that remedy is exclusive. P. 404.

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

383

Argument for Appellant.

16. In the circumstances of this case, appellant is not entitled to
relief from payment of taxes accrued during the litigation since
the date fixed by the decree below. P. 404.

Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill to enjoin the collection of taxes. See also 31 F.
Supp. 125 and 105 F. 2d 559.
Mr. Henry Adamson, with whom Mr. George 0. Pattersonwas on the brief, for appellant.
This case does not challenge either directly or indirectly any order of the Commission, and, in any event,
there is no privity between the National Bituminous Coal
Commission or its successor and the appellee herein.
No power to hold hearings and make determination
of what is or is not bituminous coal within the meaning
of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 is delegated by the
Act, either directly or inferentially, to the National
Bituminous Coal Commission or its successor.
If the statute be construed as delegating to the Commission power to determine the object to which the law
is to be applied, without fixed standirds, it is invalid as
an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. If it
be construed as delegating power to exercise the judicial
function of construction of the Act, then it is invalid as
an unlawful delegation of judicial power.
Construction of the Act as to the meaning of "bituminous, semi-bituminous and sub-bituminous" is a
judicial function and can not be delegated to an administrative tribunal.
Since appellant is a non-code producer, sale of appellant's coal is not subject to the application of provisions
of the Code provided for in § 4 or of the provisions of
§ 4-A, and therefore is not subject to the so-called

19

tax.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellee.

310 U. s,

The Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 is unconstitutional
for the following reasons: (a) The division of a natural
class, bituminous coal, into artificial classes of code and
non-code for regulatory purposes is unreasonable and
arbitrary, and violates the Fifth Amendment. (b) The
so-called 19
tax on- sale price of coal is obviously not
a tax, but a confiscatory penalty assessed without fault
on the part of the- appellant. Exemption from said socalled tax is based not upon difference in either conduct
or product, but solely upon membership in the code. Such
classification for exemption purposes is clearly unreasonable and arbitrary, and not in any wise a proper, method
-of accomplishing a proper congressional purpose, and violates the Fifth Amendment. ' Membership or nonmembership in an organization certainly cannot be a proper
basis for classification either for purposes of regulation
or taxation. (e)Congress is without -power to fix minimum prices -for bituminous coal sold in interstate commerce. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 536; United
States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533.
Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38, distinguished.
Attorney GeneralJackson, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs,
Robert L. Stern, Robert E. Sher, Hugh B. Cox, and Abe
Fortaswere on the brief, for appellee.
The price-fixing provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act
of 1937 are in substance the same as those contained in the
BitUminous C&al Conservation Act of 1935. Although the
majority of the Court in Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238, did not pass upon the validity of these provisions,
the dissenting opinions indicated that they were valid.
Since the regulatory provisions apply only to sales in or
directly affecting interstate commerce, they'are a valid
exercise of the federal commerce power. United States v.
Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S.533.

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Argument for Appellee.

Statutes fixing prices do not violate the due process
clause. Mayo v. Lakeland Highlands Canning Co., 309
U. S. 310. Even if conditions in an -industry be deemed
material, the burden of proving that the regulation is arbitrary or capricious and of overcoming the presumption of
constitutionality is upon the person assailing the validity
of the statute, and that burden has not been sustained by
appellant here. Moreover, both the record in this case
and facts subject to the Court's notice demonstrate that
the regulatory provisions are not arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable.
The circumstances warranting the establishing of minimum prices in the coal industry were substantially the
same as those described by this Court in Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, with respect to the milk industry.
The price-fixing provisions contain much more detailed
standards than those prescribed for the use of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Secretary of Agriculture in fixing rates under the Interstate Commerce Act
and the Packers and Stockyards Act and in other regulatory statutes. The argument that there is an invalid
delegation of legislative power is plainly without substance. The definition of "bituminous coal" in § 17 (b)
constitutes a satisfactory standard, which is not rendered
inadequate because of the possible existence of borderline
cases where its application may be difficult. Cf. Shields v.
UtahIdaho CentralR. Co., 305 U. S. 177.
The grant of authority to the Commission to deterfine
the question of fact as to the status of coal under the Act
is not an invalid delegation of judicial power. The decision is reviewable by the courts. Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S. 22, is not in point; appellant is admittedly engaged
in interstate commerce, and no constitutional rights depend upon the factual question here in issue. Cf. Shields
v. UtahIdaho CentralR. Co., 305 U. S. 177.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellee.

310 U. S.

Section 3"(b) provides specifically that producers who
become code members are exempt from the 191,/2% tax.
If the tax is not applicable to non-code members, it cannot apply to any one.' Both the language of the statute
and its legislative history show that Congress did not
intend to accomplish any such absurd result.
The 19:1/,2 tax is valid regardless of 'whether it is a tax
or a penalty, inasmuch as the regulatory provisions which
the section is aimed to effectuate are a legitimate exercise
of the commerce power. There can be no question of the
power of Congress to impose penalties in order to enforce
laws enacted under any of the enumerated powers.
If the tax be a penalty, there can be no improper classification in applying it only to those who fail to comply
with the regulatory plan which it is designed to enforce.
Furthermore, the choice of whether to subject itself to the
tax or the regulatory scheme lay entirely with appellant,
and appellant can not complain because the burden of
the tax now turns out to be greater than that of the system
of regulation which it could voluntarily have accepted instead. In any event, the differentiation between code
members and non-code members is valid as a means of
equalizing the burdens imposed upon the two groups.
New York Rapid Tfansit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S.
573, 580.
The decision in Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. National Bituminous Coal'Commission, 105 F. 2d 559, is
clearly res judicata with respect to the status of appellant's ease. Although the National Bituminous Coal
Commission and the collector"of internal revenue may
nominally be different parties, they are' in legal effect the
sameboth representing the United States. Under the
statute the Commission determines the applicability of the
Coal Act both for regulatory and tax purposes. It is settled that there is privity between officers representing the
same government, and that although a judgment entered

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

in a case against a collector may not be binding in a suit
agaifist the United States, -a judgment in an action -against
the United States or its representative is conclusive in a
suit against a collector. Tait v. Western, Maryland Ry.
Co., 289 U. S. 620.
The District Court also was barred from determining
the status of appellant's coal because of the existence of a
complete administrative and statutory remedy, the adequacy of which has been demonstrated with respect to
appellant itself. Moreover, the power to review the
orders of the Commission is vested by the Act exclusively
in the Circuit Courts of Appeals (§ 6 (b), (d)). This
statutory limitation upon .the jurisdiction of the District
Courts is valid. Anniston Mfg. Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S.
-337.
MB. JUsTIcE DoUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The labor provisions of the Bituminous Coal Conservation Act of 1935 (49 Stat: 991) were held unconstitutional
by this Court in Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238.
The Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 72) was
thereupon enacted. It eliminated those provisions of the
earlier Act and made other substantive and structural
changes.' The basic problem here involved is the constitutionality of the 1937 Act.
That Act provides for the regulation of the ale and
distribution of bituminous coal by the National Bituminous Coal Commission,' with the cobperation of the bi'H. Report No. 294, 75th Cong., 1st Ses., pp. 2-3.
2-Though we refer throughout to the Commission, it should be
noted that its functions have been administered since July 1, 1939, by

the Bituminous Coal Division of the Department of the Interior.
Reorganization Plan No. II, § 4 (a) and (b), submitted by the President to the Congress May 9, 1939. Pub. Res. No. 20, 76th Cong.,
1st Ses., c. 193, approved June 7, 1939.

388

OCTOBER TERTM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

tuminous coal industry. Its aim is the stabilization of
the industry primarily through price-fixing and the elimination of unfair competition. It is provided in § 4 that
the coal producers, accepting membership, shall be organized under the Bituminous Coal Code. Some twenty district boards of code members are provided for, which are
to operate as an aid to the Commission but subject to
its pervasive surveillance and authority. The statute
specifies in detail the methods of their organization and
operation, the Scope of their functions, and the jurisdiction of the Commission over them. The Commissibn is
empowered to fix minimum prices for code members in
accordance with stated standards. Under § 4, II (a) each
board shall "on its own motion or when directed by the
Commission" propose minimum prices pursuant to prescribed statutory standards. These may be approved, disapproved, or modified by the Commission as the basis for
the co~rdination of minimum prices. Somewhat .eomparable machinery is provided for such co6rdination of
minimum prices "in common consuming market areas
upon a fair competitive basis," § 4, II (b), and for establishment of rules and regulations incidental to the sale
and distribution of coal by code members. § 4, II (a).
The Commission is also given power by '§ 4, II (c) to establish maximum prices for code members pursuant to
standards prescribed therein. The sale, delivery, or offer
for sale of coal below. the minimum or above the maximum prices established by the Commission is made a
violation of-the code. § 4, II (e). So are numerous prac.tices, specified in § 4, I (i) as unfair methods of competition. And contracts for the sale of coal at prices below the
prescribed minimum or above the maximum are invalid
and unenforceable. § 4, II (e). The Commission may,
after hearing, revoke the code membership of any coal
producer for willful violation of the code or of any regulation made thereunder. § 5 (b).

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

Sec. 3 (a) imposes an excise tax of 1 cent per ton of two
thousand pounds upon the sale or other dispostion by
the producer of bituminous coal produced in the United
States.' - Sec. 3 (b) imposes an additional 191/27 tax
(based on sale price or in certain cases on fair market
value) on sales of bituminous coal by prcducers "which
would be subject to the application of the conditions and
provisions of the code provided for in section 4, or of the
provisions of section 4-A."'
Producers who are members of the code are exempt from that tax. As we shall
see, the interpretation of § 3 (b) is a subject of controversy. But if, as the government - contends, the
191/2% tax is applicable to sales by non-members, there
are strong inducements for joining the code.
Machinery is provided in § 4-A for obtaining exemptions. A producer who believes that any commerce in
coal is not, or may not be made, subject to the provisions
of § 4 may file an application for exemption with the
Commission. Subject to qualifications not material here,
the filing of such application "in good faith" exempts the
applicant from any "obligation, duty or liability" imposed,
by § 4 pending action by the Commission on the application. The Commission shall- grant the application, or,

'These

provisions are now found in § 3520 of the Internal Revenue

Code. (53 Stat. 430). The 10 tax was apparently designed to cover
the administrative costs of the Act. See H. Report No. 294, supra
note 1, pp. 2-3, recommending a
% tax which in conference was
changed to 10 per ton. H. Report No. 578, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5.
"See. 4, as we have seen, governs t c constitution and operation of
the code. Sec. 4-A provides, inter alia, that the Commission shall
subject coal in intrastate commerce to the provisions of § 4 if it finds
after hearing that transactions in that coal "cause any undue or
unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons
and localities in such commerce on the one hand and interstate commerce in coal on the other hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate commerce in coal, or in any
manner directly affect interstate commerce in coal."

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court..

310 U. S.

after notice and opportunity for hearing, shall deny or
otherwise dispose of it. An applicant aggrieved by such
denial or other disposition may obtain a reviev of the
order in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
or in the Court of Appeals in the circuit where he resides
or has his principal place of business. § 6 (b). The findings of the Commission as to the facts, if supported by
substantial evidence, are conclusive. Appellant is lessee of coal lands in Arkansas and. is
engaged in the ,business of mining and shipping coal. It
has not subscribed to or accepted the provisions of the
Bituminous Coal Code provided for in § 4 of the Act.
In August 1937 it filed an application for exemption on
the grounds that its coal was not bituminous coal as
defined in § 17 (b) of the Act.' The Commission held a
public hearing on, that application in October 1937.6
Appellant appeared, introduced evidence, and was heard
on oral argument before the Commission. " In August
1938 the Commission handed down an opinion with findings of fact and conclusions of law and entered an order
denying appellant's application for exemption on the
grounds that its coal was bituminous within the meaning
-See. 17 (b) provides: "The term 'bituminous coal' includes all bituminous, semibituminous, and subbituminous coal and shall exclude
lignite, which is defined as a lignitic coal having calorific'value in
British thermal units of less than seven thousand six hundred per
pound and having a natural moisture cofitent in place in the mine
of 30 per centum or more."
'This hearing was not restricted to appellant's application. Other
producers in the same field intervened.
7
The liberal notice and opportunity to be heard afforded appellant
are illustrated by the following: In January 1938 the report of the
examiner was served on appellant. In.May 1938 a proposed report
of the Commission was issued giving appellant 30 days to file exceptions and briefs and in that event to apply for oral argument. Appellant filed exceptions and asked for oral argument. Notice of oral
argument was issued and oral argument was had. Thereafter the
Commission issued its order denying the application.

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

of § 17 (b). Appellant obtained a revieiv of this order
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. That court held that
the Commission had jurisdiction to determine the status

of coal claimed to be exempt and that the Commission's
decision was based on substantial evidence. It accordingly affirmed the order. Sunrhine Anthracite Coal Co.
v. National Bituminous Coal Commission, 105 F. 2d 559.
We denied certiorari. 308 U. S. 604.
In May 1938, while the above proceeding was pending
before the Commission, appellee demanded that appellant pay the taxes, penalties and interest accruing under
§ 3 (b) of the Act for the peri~l ending February 1938;
and filed a notice of tax lien against appellaht's property.
Thereupon appellant filed its complaint in this suit to
enjoin the collection of the tax. A three-judge court was
convened, which issued a temporary injunction. Apparently no further action was taken in this case until after
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in Sunshine
Anthracite Coal Co. v. National Bituminous Coal Commission, supra,when appellee filed a supplemental answer
stating that the decision in that case was resjudicataas to
the status of appellant's coal under the Act and that'the
district court had no .jurisdiction over that subject mattsr.
The court below denied appellant's motion to strike that
portion of the answer. 31 F. Supp. 125. The case was
tried. The court held the Act to be constitutional and dismissed the bill on the merits.8 The case is here on appeal
(50 Stat. 752; 28 U. S. C. § 380a).
I. Appellant argues that it is not subject to the 19 %
tax imposed by § 3 (b) because that section does not ap"It granted, however, a permanent injunction -against collection of
taxes prior to December 4, 1939 the date on which this Court denied
a petition for rehearing on the petition for certiorari. , 308 U. S. 638.
Appellee has not appealed from that part of the decree. The Court
also granted a stay with respect to correction of taxes accruing after
December 4, 1939, pending final disposition of this appeal.

392-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

ply to producers who are not members of the code. Its
argument rests on the construction of § 3 (b) and "§4.
As we have seen, the former places the 191/
tax on the
sale or other disposition of. coal "which would be subject
to the application of the conditions and provisions of the
code provided for in section 4, or of the provisions of section 4-A." Sec. 4 provides that the ."provisions of such
code shiall apply'only to such code members.", Appellant
therefore contends that the tat is not applicable to its coal,
since the coal produced by a non-code producer such as
appellant is not subject to the provisions of the code.
But if the 19127 tax is not applicable to non-code members, it is not applicable to anyone since § 3 (b) exempts
code members from that tax. That construction would
read the 19
tax out of the Act. The essential sanction
of the Act would then disappear and its effectiveness would
be seriously impaired. That alternative will not be taken
where a construction is possible which will preserve the
vitality of the Act and the utility of the language in question. See Armstrong Paint & Varnish Works v. NuEnamel Corp., 305 U. S.315, 333 and cases cited. Only a
highly strained construction of § 3 (b) would lead to the
conclusion that non-code members are exempt from the
19Y2% tax. It seems that Congress made a deliberate
choice of words when it said that the tax applied to the
,sale or other disposition of coal which "would be" subject
to § 4 and § 4-A. Sec. 4is made expressly applicable "only
to matters and transactions in or directly affecting interstate commerce in bituminous coal." Hence it seems plain.
that the tax was intended to apply only to those sales by
non-code nembers which "would be" subject to regulation under § 4. Appellant's coal plainly falls in that class
since practically its entire output is sold to purchasers
outside the state of Arkansas. To sustain appellants position we would not only have to substitute "is" for "would
b"'; we would have to override the expr.ss Congressional

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

plan to make the 19 % tax "in aid of the regulation of
interstate commerce" in bituminous coal.' That would be
not only to rewrite § 3 (b)'but to remake the whole statutory scheme. Obviously such a task is not for the courts.
II. Appellant challenges the constitutionality of the
tax is not a tax but a
Act on the grounds that the 191/
penalty, that Congress lacks the power to fix minimum
prices for bituminous coal sold in interstate commerce,
that there has been an invalid delegation of legislative and
judicial power, and that the division of bituminous coal
into code and non-code classes is improper.
Clearly this tax is not designed merely for revenue purposes. In purpose and effect it is primarily a sanction to
enforce the regulatory provisions of the Act. But that
does not mean that the statute is invalid and the tax unenforceable. Congress may impose penalties in aid of the
exercise of any of its enumerated powers. The power of
taxation, granted to Congress by the Constitution, may' be
utilized as a sanction for the exercise of another power
which is granted it. Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580,
596. And see Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506.
It is so utilized here.
The regulatory provisions are clearly within the power
of Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution. These provisions are applicable only to sales or
transactions in, or directly or intimately affecting, interstate commerce.- The fixing of prices, the proscription of
unfair trade practices, the establishment of marketing
rules respecting such sales of bituminous coal constitute
regulations within the competence of Congress under the
commerce clause. As stated by Mr. Justice Cardozo in
'H. Report, No. 294, supra note 1, states concerning this tax (p.
4): "Under subsection (b) a tax of 19/2 percent is applied to coal
which would be subject to the provisions in section 4 or the provisions of section 4A. Producers who'are code members are exempt
from this tax. This tax is intended to be in aid of the regulation
of interstate commerce in coal provided for in sections 4 and 4A."

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

his dissent n Carter v. Carter Coal Co., supra, p. 326,
"To regulate the price for such transactions is to regulate
commerce itself, and not alone its antecedent conditions
or its ultimate consequences." See Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420. What is true of
prices is true of the attachment of other conditions to
the flow of a commodity in interstate channels. Mulford
v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38 and cases cited. Since this power
when it exists is complete in itself, G-ibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 196, there can be no question but that the
provisions of this Act are an exertion of the paramount
federal power over interstate commerce. See United
States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533.
Nor does' the Act violate the Fifth Amendment. Price
control is ene of the means available to the states (Nebbia
v. New York, 291 U. S. 502 and to the Congress (United
States v. Rock Royal Co-operative,supra) in their respective domains (Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S.
511) for the protection and promotion of the welfare
of the economy. But appellant claims. that this Act is
not an appropriate exercise of the Congressional power.
It urges that the nature and use of bituminous coal in
nowise endanger the health and morals of the populace;
that no question of conservation is involved; that the ills
of the industry are attributable to overproduction; that
the increase of prices will cause a further loss of markets
!,and add to the afflictions which beset the industry; and
that the consuming public will be deprived of the wholesome restriction' of the anti-trust laws. Those matters,
however, relate to questions of policy, to the wisdom of
the legislation, and to the appropriateness of the remedy
chosen-matters which are not our concern. If we endeavored to appraise them we would be trespassing on
the legislative domain. And if we undertook to narrowthe scope of federal intervenition in this field, as sugestod bv appellant, we would be blind to at least

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

thirty years of history. For a generation there have
been various manifestations of incessant demand for federal intervention in the coal industry.10 The investigations preceding the 1935 and 1937 Acts are replete with
an exposition of the conditions which have beset that
industry.1 Official '2 and private " records give eloquent
testimony to the statement of Mr. Justice Cardozo in
the Carter case (p. 330) that free competition had been
"degraded into anarchy" in the bituminous coal industry.
Overproduction and savage, competitive warfare wasted
the industry. Labor and capital alike were the victims.
Financial distress among operators and acute poverty
among miners prevailed even during periods of general
prosperity. This history of the bituminous coal industry
is written in blood as well as in ink.
It was the judgment of Congress that price-fixing and
the elimination of unfair competitive practices were appropriate methods for prevention of the financial'ruin,
low wages, poor working conditions, strikes, and disruption of the channels of trade which followed in the' wake
of the demoralized price structures in this industry. If
the strategic character of this industry in our economy
and the chaotic conditions which have prevailed in it
do not justify legislation, it is difficult to imagine what
would. To invalidate this Act we would have to deny
'"National Resources Committee, Energy Resources and National
Policy (1939) pp. 41-12.3, 338-346, 405-423.
Hearings on H. R. 8479, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
"National Resources Committee, Energy Resources and National
Policy, supranote 10; H. Rep. No. 1800, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., covering the 1935 Act; S. Rep. No. 252, H. Rep. No. 294, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess., covering the 1937 Act; Appalachian Coals, inc. v. United States.
288 U. S. 344; Third Annual Report Under the Bituminous Coal Act
of 1937 (1940), pp. 4-5.
"Hamilton & Wright, The Case of Bituminous Coal (1926); Report
of the Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the National Coal Assoc., Oct.
1934, pp. 9-11, 96-97.

OCTOBER TERM., 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

the existence of power-on the part of Congress under
the commerce clause to deal directly and specifically with
those forces which in its judgment should not be permitted to dislocate an important segment of our economy
and to disrupt and burden interstate channels of trade.
That step could not be taken without plain disregard of
the Constitution., There are limits on the powers of
the states to act as respects these interstate industries.
Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., supra. If the industry
acting on its own had endeavored to stabilize the markets through price-fixing agreements, it would have run
afoul of the Sherman Act. United States v. SoconyVacuum Oil Co., ante, p. 150. But that does not mean
that there is a no man's land between the state and federal domains. Certainly what Congress has forbidden by
the Sherman Act it can modify. It may do so, by placing
the machinery of price-fixing in the hands of public agencies. It may single out for separate treatment, as it has
done on various occasions, 4 a particular industry and
thereby remove the penalties of the Sherman Act as
respects it. Congress under the commerce clause is not
impotent to deal with what it may consider to be dire
consequences of laissez-faire. It is not powerless to take
steps in mitigation of what in its judgment are abuses
of cut-throat competition. And it is not limited in its
choice between unrestrained self-regulation on the one
hand and rigid prohibitions on the other. The commerce
clause empowers it to undertake stabilization of an interstate industry through a process of price-fixing which
safeguards the public interest by placing price control
in the hands of its administrative representative. United
States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, supra. That was
the choice which Congress made here. There is nothing
1

"See United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., supra,p. 225.

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

397

Opinion of the Court.

in the Carter case which stands in the way. The majority of the.Court in that case did not pass on the pricefixing features of the earlier Act. The Chief Justice and
Mr. Justice Cardozo in separate minority opinions expressed the view that the price-fixing features of the
earlier Act were constitutional. We rest on their conclusions for sustaining the present Act.
Nor does the Act contain an invalid delegation of legislative .power. Under § 4, II (c) the Commission may
fix maximum prices when in the public interest it deems
it necessary in order to protect the consumer against unreasonably high prices. These maximum prices must be
fixed at a uniform increase above minimum prices so that
in the aggregate they will yield a reasonable return above
the weighted average total cost of the district. And no
maximum price shall be established for. any mine which
will not yield a fair return on the fair value of the property. The minimum prices to be fixed must conform to
the following standards: the weighted average cost for
each minimum price area must be computed, the elements
of cost being defined; a classification of the, various sizes
and grades of coal shall, be made which reflects as nearly
as possible the relative market value of,the various kinds,
qualities, and' sizes of coal, which is just and equitable as
between produders within the district and which has due
regard to the-interests of the consuming public; and cod5rdinated minimum prices shall be established for such coal
(a) which reflect as nearly as p~ssible the relative market
values at points of delivery taking into account specifically enumerated factors, (b) which preserve as nearly as
may be existing fair competitive opportunities, (c) which
are just and equitable as between tlhe districts, and (d)
which, consistently with the process of co~rdination, yield
a return to each area approximating its weighted average
cost per ton.

OCTOBER rtERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

The problem of fixing reasonable prices for bituminous
coal cannot be differentiated legally from the task of fixing
rates under thd Interstate Commerce Act (41 Stat. 484,
49 U. S. C. § 15). and the- Packers and Stockyards Act
(42 Stat. 166, 7 U. -S. C. § 211). The latter provide
the standard of "just and reasonable" to guide the administrative body in the rate-making process. The validity
of that standard (Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, supra), the appropriateness of the criterion of the
"public interest" in various contexts (New York Central
Securities Corp. v. UnitedStates, 287 U. S. 12, 24; United
States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1; Avent v.
United States, 266. U. S. 127), the legality of the standard
of "unreasonable obstruction" to navigation (Union
Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364) all make it
clear that there is a valid delegation of authority in this
case. The standards which*Congress has provided here
far exceed in specificity others which have been sustained.
Certainly in the hands of experts the criteria which Congress has supplied are wholly adequate for carrying out
the general policy and purpose of the Act. To require
more would be to insist on a degree of exactitude which
not only lacks legal necessity but which does not comport
with the requirements bf the administrative process.
Delegation by Congress has long been recognized as necessary in order that the exertion of legislative po7wer does
not become a futility. Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1,
15 and cases cited. But the effectiveness of both the
legislative and administrative processes would become endangered if Congress were under the constitutional compulsion of filling in the details beyond the liberal prescription here. Then the burdens of minutiae would be apt
to clog, the administration of the law and deprive the
agency of that flexibility and dispatch which are its salient
virtues. For these reasons we hold that the standards
with which Congress has supplied the Commission are

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

plainly valid. United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative,
supra.
Nor has Congress delegated its legislative authority to
the industry. The members of the code function subordinately to the Commission. It, not the code authorities, determines the prices. And it has authority and
surveillance over the activities of these authorities. Since
law-making is not entrusted to the industry, this statutory scheme is unquestionably valid. Currin v. Wallace,
supra, and cases cited.
But appellant maintains that the delegation of authority to the Commission to determine what coal is subject to the Act is unlawful because of uncertainty in the
statutory definition of bitumin6us coal. Sec. 17 (b) defines the term "bituminous: cdal" as follows:
"The term 'bituminous coal' includes all bituminous,
semibituminous, and subbituminous coal and shall exclude lignite, which is defined as a lignitic coal having
calorific value in British thermal units of less than seven
thousand six hundred per pound and having a natural
moisture content in place in the mine of 30 per centum
or more."
As in the case of the term "interurban" electric railway
in the Railway Labor Act (Shields v. Utah Idaho Central
R. Co., 305 U. S. 177) we think the definition of bituminous coal is wholly adequate as a standard for administrative action. The fact that it is not a chemist's or an
engineer's definition is not fatal. The definition is not
devoid of meaning. We are unable to say that it cannot
be applied so as to delineate the areas in which Congress
intended to make this system of control effective. The
fact that many instances may occur where its application
may be difficult is merely to emphasize the nature of the
administrative problem and the reason for the grant of
latitude by the Congress. The difficulty or impossibility
of drawing a statutory line is one of the reasons for suD-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

plying merely a statutory guide. Cf. Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 286
U. S. 299, 312. That guid1e is sufficiently precise for an
intelligent determination of the ultimate questions of fact
by experts.
Nor is there an invalid delegation of judicial power.
To hold that there was would be to turn back the clock
on at least a half century of administrative law. The
question of whether or not appellant should be subjected
to the regulatory provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act
was one which the Congress could decide in the exercise
of its powers under the commerce clause.. In lieu of
making that decision itself, it could bring to its aid the
services of an administrative agency. And it could delegate to that agency the determination of the question of
fact whether a particular coal producer fell within the Act.
Shields v. Utah Idaho Cefitral R. Co., supra, p. 180.
The fact that such determination involved an interpretation of. the term "bituminous coal" is of no more
significance here than was the fact that in the Shields
case a decision by. the Interstate Commerce Commission
of what constituted an "interurban" electric railway was
necessary for the ultimate finding as to the applicability
of the Railway Labor Act to carriers. That problem
involves no more than the adequacy of the standard
governing the exercise of the delegated authority. Furthermore, on this phase of the case, appellant has ieceived all the judicial review to which it is entitled. As
we have seen, it obtained a review under § 6 (b) of the
Commission's denial of its application for exemption. The
functions of the courts cease when iiis ascertained that
the findings of the Commission meet the statutory test.
Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S.
125, 146.
Appellant contends that the statutory classification of
coal into code and non-code classes and the application

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

Opinion of the Court.

of the 19 7 tax to the latter are improper iinder the
Fifth Amendment. Its objection is not premised on lack
of due process. Nor could it be in view of the elaborate
machinery and procedure for the Act's enforcement which
the Congress has provided. Rather appellant's objection
is founded on its claim of discrimination. But the Fifth
Amendment, unlike the Fourteenth, has no equal protection clause. Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S.
548, 584 and cases cited. And there is "no requirement
of uniformity in connection with the commerce power."
Currin v. Wallace, supra, p. 14. The lack of similarity in
treatment of the two classes of coal is an integral and essential feature of this Act. As we have said, it is through
that device that Congress sought to obtain an effective
sanction for the Act's enforcement. Coercion is the very
essence of any penalty exacted for failure of submission.
"It is of the essence of the plenary power conferred" by
the commerce clause "that Congress may exercise. its
discretion in the use of the power." Currin v. Wallace,
supra, p. 14. A part of that discretion is the selection of
the sanction for the law's enforcement. Discrimination
constitutionally may be the price of non-compliance. "Inquiry into the hidden motives which may move Congress
to exercisq a power constitutionally conferred upon it is
beyond the competency of courts." Sonzinsky v. United
States, supra, pp. 513-514. And see Mulford v. Smith,
supra, p. 48.
III. Appellant contends here, as it did below, that
Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. National Bituminous
Coal Commission, supra, is not determinative of the
present issues since that case did not involve the assessment of taxes and since the Commission had no authority
to determine the status of appellant's coal.
These contentions are untenable. In the first place,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is merely the
agency to collect taxes levied under the Act; he is not the

402

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U_ S.

.administrative agent whom Congress has designated to
determine what coal is exempt from the 191/2% tax.
That function is entrusted to the Commission. By the
terms of § 4-A it is the Commission which determines
whether an application for exemption should be granted
or denied. By the provisions of § 3 (b) it is the Commission "which certifies to the Commissioner those who
are code members and consequently exempt from the
19 % tax. Hence -the Commission determines the
scope of the provisions of the Act and their applicability
to various producers. The Commissioner is given no administrative functions whatsoever except tax collection.
In the second place, the underlying issue in each of these
two suits is the same. In Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co.
v. National Bituminous Coal Commission, supra, the
question was whether or not appellant's coal was "bituminous ' within the meaning of § 17 (b). When that
isslie was decided adversely to appellant, liability for the
191/2% tax followed unless. appellant joined the code, in
which event it would be entitled to a certificate from the
Commission evidencing its tax exemption. In the present suit, appellant is seeking to raise the identical issue,
-ince its purpose is to enjoin collection of the self-same
tax.,,The'result- is clear. Where the issues in separate suits
are the same, the fact that the parties are not precisely
identical is not necessarily fatal. As stated in Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 620, "Identity of parties is not a mere matter of form, but of substance. Parties nominally the same may be, in legal
effect, different, . . . and parties nominally different
may be, in legal effect, the same." A judgment is res
judicata in a second action upon the same claim between
the same parties or those in privity with them. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351. There is privity
between officers of the same government so that a.judg-

SUNSHINE COAL CO. v. ADKINS.
381

403

Opinion of the Court.

ment in a suit between a party and a representative of
the United States is res judicata in relitigation of the
same issue between that party and another officer of the
government. See Tait v. Western Maryland Ry. Co.,
289 U. S. 620. The crucial point is whether or not in
the earlier litigation the representative of the United
States had authority to represent its interests in a final
adjudication of the issue in controversy. Cf. Gunter v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 200 U. S. 273, 284-289.
Cases holding that a judgment in a suit against a collector for unlawful exaction is not a.bar to a subsequent
suit by or against the Commissioner or the United States
(Sage v. United States, 250 U. S.33; Bankers Pocahontas
Coal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 308) are not in point, since
the suit against the collector is "personal and its incidents, such as the nature of the defenses open and the
allowance of interest, are different." Sage v. United
States, supra, p. 37. But here the authority of the Commission is clear. There-can be no question that it was
authorized to make the determination of the status of
appellant's coal under the Act. It represented the
United States in that determination and the delegation
of that power to the Commission was valid, as we have
said. That suit therefore bound the United States, as
well as the appellant. Where a suit binds the United
States, it binds its subordinate officials. Tait v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., supra. The suggestion that the
doctrine of res judicata does not apply unless the court
rendering the judgment had jurisdiction of the cause is
sufficiently answered by Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165
and Treinies v. Sunshine Mining Co., 308 U. S. 66. As
.held in those cases, in general the principles of res judicata apply to questions of jurisdiction as well as to other
matters-whether it be jurisdiction of the subject matter or of the parties. Accordingly the lower court correctly held that it had *no jurisdiction to determine

404

OCTOBER TERM, 19a9.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

whether appellant's coal was "bituminous" as defined in
the Act. Furthermore where, as here, Congress has
created a special administrative procedure for the determination of the status of persons or companies under a
regulatory act and has prescribed a procedure which
meets all requirements of due process, that remedy is
exclusive. See Anniston Manufacturing Co. v. Davis,
301 U. S. 337.
The decree below subjected appellant to payment of
taxes.accrued or assessed against it under § 3 (b) after
December 4, 1939. To relieve against payment of taxes
until final termination of the litigation would be to put
a premium on dilatory tactics in a situation where under
the authority of Currin v. Wallace, Mulford v. Smith,
and United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, supra,
the subject of the Act was clearly one over which the
jurisdiction of Congress was complete.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the Act
under review is beyond dny power granted to Congress
and that the judgment below should be reversed.
ANDERSON v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 682.' Argued April 2, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
Oil properties, including fee interests, were sold for a specified money
consideration payable part in cash and the balance, with interest,
*Together with No. 683, Prichard v. Helvering, Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 309 U. S. 645, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

