OCTOBER TERM,, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

UNITED STATES FT AL. v. CHICAGO HEIGHTS
TRUCKING CO. ET AL,.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 724. Argued April 26; 29, 1940.--Decided May 20, 1940.
Common carriers by motor, in interstate commerce, filed tariffs providing rates on goods reshipped in the original packages as less
than truck-load consignments immediately after their transportation
as parts of a truck-load or carload consignment, and on lessthan-truck-load goods which, on arrival at their immediate destination, are to be immediately reshipped, in the original packages, as
parts of a truck-load or carload consignmeni. The Interstate Commerce Commission found the rates lower than other rates on like
goods between the same points; that practically they could be used
only by forwarders and a few large shippers; that they would
operate for the special benefit of forwarders and would not benefit
owners of the goods shipped; and that forwarders would thereby be
afforded transportation at rates lower than those charged certain
other shippers under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, in violation of § 216. (d) of the Federal Motor Carrier Act.
Held:
1. That the Commission was justified in canceling the proposed
tariffs. P. 347.
2. Section 216 (d) of the Motor Carrier Act, like provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act, insures equality of rates for substantially
similar services. P. 351.
3. Although the evidence was undisputed, it was for the Commission to determine the question of undue preference and discrimination.
P. 352.
4. The Commission was authorized to act in the matter on its own
motion, without complaint by shippers. P. 353.
5. The Commission performs its duties in the interests of shippers
generally, of the national transportation system, and of the public.
P. 354.
Reversed.
guarantees of § 7 of the Act required disestablishment of the Federation (Falk case, 308 U. S. 461, and' cases cited), and that posting
of appropriate notices was necessary. Id., p. 462.

UNITED STATES v. TRUCKING CO.
344

Opinion of the Court.

APPFAr from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, which set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission canceling tariffs of motor carriers.
Mr. A. H. Feller,with whom Solicitor General Biddle,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. Frank
Coleman, William J. Campbell, Daniel TV. Knowlton, and
E. M. Reidy were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. John R. Turney and R. E. Quirk for appellees.
MR. JuSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondents are forty-one interstate common carriers
operating motor vehicles subject to the Interstate Commerce Commission under the Federal Motor Carrier Act
of 1935.1 Our decision turns upon the validity of an
order of the Commission cancelling certain proposed
tariffs of these carriers upon the ground that they were
unlawfully discriminatory in affording lower rates to
"forwarders". of freight than to other shippers.,
Forwarders utilize common carriers by rail and motor
truck to transport goods owned by others. They solicit
and obtain many small shipments, from various points
within an area, and cause them to be carried in less than
truck-load or carload lots to a concentration center
within the area. There 'they are assembled by the forwarder for further transportation in truck-load or carload lots. Although the forwarder gives owners of individual small shipments his own contract corresponding
in form to through bills of lading and assumes responsibility for safe through carriage, the forwarder customarily arranges for the pickup, assembly and transportation
of the shipments by carriers for hire. And the forwarders, not the owners of the goods, select the carriers and
'49 Stat. 543.

OCTOBER TERM; 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

route the shipments. Upon arrival of a truck-load or
carload of the assembled small shipments at a distribution center, the bblk 'shipment is broken up, the forwarder separates and takes possession of the original
small shipments and arranges, where necessary, their
further carriage to their various final destinations in the
area served by the particular distribution point. In this
final carriage of the small shipment to its ultimate destination, the forwarder again utilizes carriers for hire to
move, these less than truck-load or carload lots. Thus,
forwarders may use the service of carriers to assemble
shipments of less than truck-load or carload lots at their
concentration center, to transport the assembled truckload or carloads to a distribution center and to carry the
broken up small shipment, beyond their break-bulk distribution center.
The forwarding business has been built upon the expectation that a material part of the transportation which
it causes to be provided for small shippers can by consolidation of small shipments be obtained at truck-load or
carload rates. For. the forwarders' business was originally
made profitable because it could operate upon the margin
of profit represented by the difference between railroad
carload rates paid by the forwarder and the higher rates,
approximating less than carload rates, which the forwarder charged the owner of a shipment:2 But forwarders in using railroads enjoy no special tariff rates and
pay the same published carload and less than carload
rates that other shippers pay. And the question here
it not whether the Commission should have approved as
lawful lower rates for truck-loads than for smaller shipments, but whether the court properly set aside the Commission's order which had directed cancellation of reSee Interstate Commerce Commn v. Delaware. L. & W. R. Co,

220 U. S. 235, 243.

UNITED STATES v. TRUCKING CO.
344

Opinion of the Court.

spondents' tariffs providing lower rates for certain less
than truck-load shipments solely because they, had previously been, or were intended subsequently to be, consolidated in truckloads with other individual shipments.
Upon the Commission's own motion, a hearing was held
and the Commission ordered the cancellation of these
tariffs.8 Respondents brought suit in the District Court
to set aside and restrain enforcement of the Commission's
order. A three judge court held the order void and perpetually enjoined its enforcement. The case is here on
direct appeal by the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission.'
Respondents' tariffs would be available to forwarders
who arrange assembling, transportation and distribution
services in the trade areas surr ounding concentration and
break-bulk centers in Illinois, Wisconsin and Indiana.
And the Commission found that "In practical effect these
rates can be used by few, if any, shippers, except the
forwarders." Since in its opinion these tariffs were "materially lower-than respondents' local rates on like traffic
between the. same points," 1.the Commission found that
"the forwarders. . . and possibly d few large shippers
...
will be afforded transportation at rates lower than
the rates . . . charged certain other shippers under'sub-

stantially similar circumstances and conditions, in violation of Section 216 (d)."' In the view we take, it be5 first reported, 10 M. C. C. 556. On reconsideration,
the report was by the Commission, 17 M. C. C. 573.
.Division

'28 U. S. Code, 45, 45 (a), 47 (a), 345.

"Two Commissioners in dissent thought this was "true only in
part. They are lower than some, but by no means all, of the corresponding local rates."
'§ 216 (d): "It shall be unlawful for any common- carrier by
motor vehicle engaged in interstate or foreign commerce to make,
give, or cause any undue or unreasonable preference or'advantage to
any particular person, port, gateway, locality, or description of

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

comes unnecessary to consider additional grounds upon
which the Commission found the tariffs violated another
Section of the Act.7
So far as pertinent here, the tariffs before us propose
rates for transportation of commodities in less than
truck-load lots. All commodities (with exceptions not
here material) are as a group given the same special rate.
In general, respondents' other tariffs provide rates which
vary for different types of commodities. Accordingly,
if the suspended rates were in effect, transportation of
the same commodity over the same haul might cost a
forwarder less than other shippers.
The findings of the Commission and the supporting
evidence 8 reveal that local less-than-truck-load rates
charged shippers are in many if not most instances
greater than rates on like commodities between the same
points to be afforded forwarders under the proposed
tariffs which the Commission ordered cancelled. However, upon reviewing the identical evidence which the
Commission had considered, the court below drew inferencesopposite to those of the Commission and disagreed
with its conclusion that in operation the disputed tariffs
would violate § 216 (d) which forbids undue preferences
and advantages that lead to unjust discrimination. The
exercise of judgment by the Commission and by the court
traffic in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person,
port, gateway, locality, or description of traffic to any unjust discrimination .or ny undue. or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage
in any respect whatsoever4 Provided, however, That this paragraph
shall not be construed to apply to discriminations, prejudice, or disadvantage to the traffic of any other carrier of whatever description."
'See § 217 (a), (b).
S The District Court found that some of the local "rates are higher
and some lower than the suspended rate," but the average revenue
derived by the respondents from local iates "per hundred pounds
. . . upon the whole, is less than" that produced'by the suspended

rates.

UNITED STATES v. TRUCKING CO.
344

Opinion of the Court.

in appraising the same evidence has led to these opposing
conclusions.
The tariffs apply on "'All freight' (except as otherwise
provided .'. .), which has been transported to . . . [an]

origin station . . ., as a part of a truck-load consignment or carload consignment moving under tariffs or
schedules lawfully on file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission and immediately reshipped in the original
packages as an L. T. L. [less than truck-load] shipment:
or
which is to be transported
"(b) 'All freight',
to . . , [a named] destination station . . . as an L. T. L.

shipment, and immediately reshipped in the original package as part of a truck-load consignment or carload assignmept moving under tariffs or schedules lawfully on file
with the Interstate Commerce Commission."
It is evident that these special tariffs are available only
to shippers who intend and are able (a) to arrange immediate further transportation in carloads or truck-loads for
commodities that have been carried in less than truckload lots, or (b) to move commodities in less than truckload lots immediately after they have been carried as
part of a carload or truck-load. 'While,as has been noted,
some few large shippers may possibly avail of the tariffs,
there is no question about the finding of the court below
that the "principal traffic which will be carried under the
suspended rates is what is called by the Commission
'freight forwarder traffic.'"
Almost since its inception the Commission has been
called upon to exercise its judgment relative to the Interstate Commerce Act as applied to forwarders.' Initial
hostility of the railroads caused them to deny forwarders
the advantage. of their published rates. However, when
'See, e. g., Export Shipping Co. v. Wabash Railroad Co., 14 1. C. C.
437; Freight Forwarding Investigation, 229 1. C. C. 201; Acme Fast
Freight, In%, Common Carrier Application, 8 M. C. C. 211.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

called upon to decide, the Commission held that the
railroads' action discriminated against forwarders and
declared forwarders to be entitled as shippers to published
carload rates, This Court sustained the action of the
Commission."
About 1920, prior to the Motor Carriers Act, forwarders began to utiliie motor carriers. Forwarders and
truckers operated under individual contracts providing
divisions of the complete line haul charge. After the
tariff provisions of the Motor Carriers Act went into effect,
forwarders filed tariff schedules with the Interstate Commerce Commission on the assumption that they were
subject to the Act as common carriers. Tariffs so filed
were, however, ordered cancelled by the Commission upon
the ground that forwarders were not motor carriers subject to the Act. A three judge District Court upheld the
Commission I and this Court affrmed.u
Here, the complaint itself has alleged that the so-called
"proportional" tariffs under consideration "name rates
which are identical with" the divisions of through L. C. L.
rates which respondents would have received had the
forwarders' tariffs been upheld. And, as stated by the
Commission, "Stripped of protective coloring, these rates
are published as proportional rates primarily as a matter
of expediency to serve the purpose of certain freight forwarders andp perpetuate in another form so-called divisions of purported joint rates of the freight forwarders."
Respbndents contend that the Commission improperly
concluded that the canceled tariffs create undue preferences or advantages resulting in unjust discriminations in
-"InterstateCoimmerce Comm'n v. Delaware -L. & W. R. Co., 220

U. S. 235.
' 8 M. C.C.211, Acre Fast Freight, Inc. v. United States, 30 F.
Supp. 968.
Acme Fast Freight,Inc. v. United States, 309 U. S. 638.'

UNITED STATES v. TRUCKING CO.
344

351

Opinion of the Court.

violation of 216 (d) because there was no evidence that
the suspended rates would subject any particular person
or type of traffic to disadvantage or injury; while the
suspended rates, applicable on all classes of traffic, might
be lower as to some commodities, the aggregate compensation from them would not be less than that from like
local traffic if all such local traffic is considered; services
rendered by respondents to the forwarders are unlike and
less burdensome than local services rendered individual
shippers; services rendered the forwarders are on longer
hauls than on other local less than truck-load commodity
traffic; terminal services rendered forwarders by respondents are less expensive than in the case of other shippers;
forwarders bear the expense of soliciting business thereby
relieving respondents of that burden; the only evidence
before the Commission was introduced by respondents;
and no shippers complained of injury."8
Weighty as these arguments were, they did not persuade the Commission that forwarders could without discrimination be given lower L. T. L. rates than other shippers. The Commission was impressed by the facts that
the -proposed rates were not in reality available to. all
of the shipping public and in practical effect would operate for the special benefit of the forwarders and would
not benefit the owner of goods shipped; that § 216 (d)
of the Act represented a manifestation of the congressional purpose in Part I, § 2, and Part II, § 202 (a) of
the Interstate Commerce Act, to prevent favoritism by
insuring equality of treatment on rates for substantially
similar services; and that the proposed tariff would afford '"forwarders
. large shippers .

...
. ,

, and possibly a very few
transportation at rates lower

"These arguments for sustaining the tariffs were all forcefully
presented in the dissenting opinion of Chairman Eastman, concurred in
by Commissioner Mahaffie.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

[would] be' charged certhan the rates- which ...
tain other shippers under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, in violation of Section 216 (d)."
Moved by these considerations, the Commission concluded that the mere fact that forwarders might
ordinarily furnish a volume of traffic greater than but
identical in kind with that furnished by individual
shippers did not justify lower rates for forwarders.
"It is not disputable that from the beginning the very
purpose for which the Commission was created was to"
bring into existence a body which from its peculiar -character would be most fitted to primarily decide whether
from facts, disputed or undisputed, in a given case preference or. discrimination existed."' 1 And where a court
substituted "its judgment- as to the existence of preference for that of the Commission on the ground that
where there was no dispute as to the facts it had a right
to do so, [the court] obviously exerted an authority not
conferred upon it by the statute." 15 So here, it has been
pointed out that there' was no dispute in the evidence before the Commission, all of which was introduced
by respondents: But the differing inferences as to discrimination finding possible support in' that e 'idence
are made to stand out by the persuasive reasoning advanced in both the majority and minority opinions of
the Commission. The Interstate Commerce" Act does
not attempt to define an unlawful discrimination with
mathematical precision. Instead, different treatment
for similar transportation services is made an unlawful
discrimination- when "undue," "unjust," "unfair," and
"unreasonable." 'And the courts have always recognized
that Congress intended to commit to the Commission the
determination, by application of an informed judgment
"United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S. 314,
320.
IsId.

UNITED STATES v. TRUCKING CO.
344

Opinion of the Court.

to existing facts, of the existence of forbidden preferences, advantages and discrimination."
A special allowance to a forwarder as an inducement to
ship goods by a particular carrier would be an illegal
rebate." Similarly, and as previously pointed out, forwarders are shippers protected by the Interstate Commerce Act from discrimination by carriers. 8 As shippers,
forwarders do business subject to the paramount principle that Congress intended our national transportation
system to operate without favoritism. Pursuant to its
duty to apply that principle upon a national scale, the
Commission can prevent unjust rate discrimination by
carriers against other shippers and in favor of forwarders.
The particular problem here involved is but a segment of
the larger complicated national problem of rates with
which the Commission must deal. As exemplified by this
record, the Commission is "informed by experience" 19 of
years in its consideration of the relationship of forwarders
to our national transportation system.
The fact that the Commission acted on its motion without complaints by individual shippers did not detract
"Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, 304; Inter-

state Commerce Comm'n v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., supra, at
255; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 481.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 162 U. S.

197, represents an apparent exception, at an early date before the
function of the Commission had become fully outlined against the
background of time and the empiric pattern of litigation. (Commission's bill to enforce its holding that the difference between domestic and "imported merchandise could not justify different rates
between the port of reception and point of delivery, ordered dismissed).
"tLehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 444.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.,
supra, at 255.
"Cf. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235, 239; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206 U. S. 441,
454.

354

OCTOBER TERM,, 1939.
Syllabus.

310U. S.

from the Commission's power to protect and maintain
a transportation system.free from partiality to particular
shippers. The Commission acted in its capacity as a publiec agency and carried out duties imposed upon it by
Congress in the interest of shippers generally, the national
transportation system and the public interest." Its order
was the embodiment of the Commission's judgment that
the proposed tariff was a discrimination prohibited by the
Act. "The judgment so exercised, being supported by
ample evidence, is conclusive." 2
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
bill is ordered dismissed.
Reversed.
EX PARTE BRANSFORD, COUNTY TREASURER
OF PIMA COUNTY, ARIZONA, ETC.
.No. -, Original.

Argued April 23, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

1. Mandamus is proper to review error of a district court in refusing to call in additional ju.dges, under Jud. Code § 266, in a suit.
praying an interlocutory injunction against state officers. P. 355.
2. The application for mandamus may be made by one of several
defendants. P. 356.
3. A suii by a national bank to enjoin tbe collection of a state tax
is not a suit to restrain the enforcement of a statute of the State
"upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of such statute," within
the meaning of Jud. Code § 266, where the bill makes no attack upon
the state legislation involved but alleges that state dfficials have
misconstrued it and have made an assessment which is unconstitutional because excessive and discriminatory and which is also invalid
because it discriminates against national bank shares in violation of
R-. S. § 5219, and includes preferred- shares of the bank owned bythe Reconstruetion Finance Corporation, which are exempt under
the Act of Congress of March 20, 1936. P. 357.
A petition for an injunction on, the ground of the unconstitutionality of -a.statute as applied, which requires a three-judge court,
" Cf. Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157.
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 525, 526.

