530

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

WHITE v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 87. Argued May 20, 1940.-Decided May 27, 1940.
1. Use in a state court of a coerced confession in procuring a conviction of a capital crime violates the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 531.
2. The evidence shows that the confession used in the tial ofthis case
was coerced. P. 532.
Petition denied.

On a petition by the State of Texas for the rehearing of
a case adjudged March 25, 1940, 309 U. S. 631, reversing
adeath sentence upon a conviction of rape.
Mr. F. S. K. Whittaker, with whom Mr. Carter Wesley
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Lloyd Davidson and William. J. Fanning, Assistant Attorney General of Texas, with whom -Messrs.
Gerald C. Mann, Attorney General, George W. Barcus,
Assistant Attorney General, and W. C. McClain were on
the brief, for respondent.
-

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner was convicted of rape and sentenced to death
in the District Court of Montgomery County, Texas. The
State's appellate criminal court of last resort affirmed and
denied, rehearing.' We declined to grant certiorari to
review the state court's action, 308 U. S. 608. February
29, 1940, petitioner sought rehearing of his petition or
certiorari, alleging that his conviction and sentence resulted
from proceedings in which the State had utilized an alleged
-confession in violation of the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, March 25, 1940, we granted
certiorari; and reversed the judgment of the state court,
139 Tex. Crim. Rep. -; 128 S.W. 2d 51. A prior conviction was
reversed. 135 Tex. Crim. Rep. 210; 117 S. W. 2d 450.

WHITE v. TEXAS.
530

Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.631, upon authority 6f Chambers v. Florida,309
U. S. 227, and Canty v. Alabama, 309 U. S. 629. The case

is before us now on the State's petition for rehearing.2

From the first offer of the alleged confession in evidence
at the trial, petitioner has challenged the State's right

to utilize it, consistently with rights guaranteed him by
the Federal Constitution.3 In affirming the conviction
and sentence of death, the court below necessarily
determined that use of the confession did not constitute
a denial of that due process which the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees.
The State suggests that there is evidence that petitioner
denied ever having made or signed the confession which
- purported to be signed by his mark. 'Therefore, it insists

'Petitioner's original petition for certiorari was denied November
13, 1939, 308 U. S. 608. On February 29, 1940, after our decision
in the Chambers case, petitioner filed a petition for rehearing of
his original petition, assigning the additional ground that his conviction was attributable to the use by the State of a confession obtained by coercion and intimidation. March 2, 1940, the Attorney
General of Texas was notified of the pendency of the petition for
rehearing and he has informed the Clerk of this Court that he notified
the State's Appellate Criminal Attorney. Information of pendency
of the petition for rehearing of the petition for certiorari was also
communicated to the Montgomery County District Court Clerk, the
District Attorney, the Governor and the State Board of Pardons
and Paroles. The State's petition for rehearing of our judgment of
March 25, 1940, reversing the state court's judgment, alleged that
the State had not received adequate notice and sought further opportunity to present the State's views. We therefore heard oral arguments upon the State's petition for rehearing.
'In addition to alleging that the confession relied on by the State
was coerced and involuntary, both petitioner's amended motion for
a new trial and his bill of exceptions to the court below set out that
he "was not permitted to talk to an attorney to advise him but was
kept incommunicado, was not permitted to use a telephone, was kept
n the woods by Rangers a great portion of the time and wcs denied
,very right that even this defendant is entitled to under the Constitution of Texas and the Constitution of the United States"

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

that petitioner is barred from urging that the prosecution's
use of the confession could have deprived him of due process at his trial. But iegardless of petitioner's testimony
on this question, the State insisted and offered testimony
to establish that the confession was signed by him, and
upon this: evidence the confession was submitted to the
jury for the purpose of obtaining his conviction. Since,
therefore, the confession was presented by the State to the
jury as that of petitioner, we must determine whether
the record shows that, if signed at all, the confession was
obtained and used in such manner that petitioner's trial
fell short of that procedural due process guaranteed by the
Constitution.
Petitioner is an illiterate farmhand who was engaged,
at the time of his arrest, upon a plantation about ten
miles from Livingston, Texas. On the day following the
crime with which he has been charged, he was called from
the field in which he was picking cotton and was taken
to the house of the brother-in-law of the prosecutrix, the
victim of the crime, where fifteen or sixteen negroes of the
vicinity were at the time in custody without warrants or
the filing of charges. Taken to the county court house,
and thence to the Polk County jail,'petitioner was kept
there six or seven days. According to his testimony,
armed Texas Rangers on several successive nights took him
handcuffed from the jail "up in the woods soniewhere,"
whipped him, asked him each time about a confession and
warned him not to speak to any one about the nightly trips
to the woods. During the period of his arrest up to and
including the signing of the alleged confession, petitioner
had no lawyer, no charges were filed against him and he
Was out of touch with friends or relatives.
There were denials that petitioner was ever physically
mistreated or abused. But the Rangers and a local peace
officer, identified by petitioner as the officers who took

WHITE v. TEXAS.
-530

Opinion of the Court.

him on the night-trips to the woods and there whipped him,
.did not specifically deny that he was taken out of jail, at
night, and interrogated in the woods. This local peace
officer wasn't sure "how many times" the prisoner was
removed from jail, and one Ranger re-stated his testimony
given at the first trial that he "took him out so many times"
the exact number could not be recalled. The prisoner was
taken out of jail, driven "out on the road" and then "out
off of the road," as this Ranger testified, in order that the
officers could talk to him and because the jail was crowded.
In jail, the Sheriff put. petitioner by himself and "kept
watching him and talking"to him."
Before carrying petitioner to Beaumont, where the
alleged confession was taken, the Sheriff talked about an
hour and .a half with hin. "The Rangers who had been
taking petitioner to the woods at night knew the county
attorney was going to Beaumont to get a statement; they,
too, went there and were in and out'of the eighth floor
room of the jail in Beaumont, with the elevator locked,
where petitioner was interrogated from approximately
11: 00 P. M. to 3: 00 or 3: 30 A. M. The alleged confession was reduced to wrifing after 2 A. M. Immediately
before it was taken down, the prisoner was repeatedly asked
by the private prosecutor whether he was ready to confess.
Petitioner then began to cry, and the typing of the confession, upon which the State's case substantially rested,
was completed by the county attorney about daylight.
Two citizens of Beaumont signed it as witnesses.
"Due process of law, preserved for all by our Constitution, commands that no such practice as that disclosed by
this record shall send any accused"to his death." 4
The State's petition for rehearing is
Denied.
4 Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 241; Canty v. Alabama, 309
U. S. 629.

