OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF ALABAMA.

No. 514.

Argued February 29, 1940.-Decided April 2Z, 1940.

A statute of Alabama makes it unlawful for any person, "without
a just cause or legal excuse," to go near to or "loiter" about any
place of lawful business, for the purpose of, or with the intention
of, influencing or inducing other persons not to buy from, deal
with,.or be employed at such place of business; or to "picket" a
place of lawful business for the purpose of impeding, interfering
with, or injuring such business. As construed by the courts of the
State, the statute forbids the publicizing of facts concerning a
labor dispute, whether by printed sign, by pamphlet, by word of
mouth, or otherwise, in the vicinity of the business involved; and
this, without regard to the number of persons engaged in such
activity, the peaceful character of their conduct, the nature of the
dispute, or the accuracy or restraint of the language used in
imparting the information. Upon a complaint substantially in.the
words of the statute, and upon evidence of activities related to
picketing of a place of business in connection with a labor dispute, petitioner was convicted 'of "loitering and picketing as
charged in the complaint." The statute was challenged as violative of freedom of speech and of the press. Held:
1. Freedom of speech and of the press, secured by the First
Amendment against abridgment by the United States, is secured
to all persons by the Fourteenth Amendment against abridgment
by the States. P. 95.
2. When abridgment of the effective exercise of the rights of
freedom of speech and of the press is claimed, it is incumbent
on the courts to "weigh the circumstances" and "appraise the
substantiality of the reasons advanced" in support of the challenged
-regulations. P. 96.
3. The statute must be judged upon its face. P. 96.
(a) The charges were framed in the words of the statute and
the finding was general; it is not necessary to consider whether
the evidence would have supported a conviction based upon different and more precise charges. P. 96.
(b) The very existence of a penal statute such as that here,
which does not aim specifically at evils within the allowable area
of state control, but sweeps within its ambit other activities that
in ordinary circumstances constitute an exercise of freedom of

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Syllabus.

speech or of the press, results in a continuous and. pervasive restraint of all freedom of discussion that might reasonably be
regarded as within its purview. One convicted under such a
statute does not have to sustain the burden of showing that the
State could not constitutionally have written a different and
specifi statute covering the particular activities in which he i,
'hown to h.ave been engaged. P. 97.
(c) Where regulations of the liberty of free discussion are concerned, there are -pecial reasons for observing the rule that it is
the statute, and not the accusation or the evidence under it, which
prescribes the limits of permissible conduct and warns against
transgression. P. 98.
4. The statute is invalid on its face. P. 101.
(a) Freedom of speech and of the press embraces at the least
the liberty to discuss publicly and truthfully all matters of public
concern without previous restraint or fear of subsequent punishment. P. 101.
(b) The dissemination of information concerning the facts of a
labor dispute must be regarded as within that area of free
discussion which is guaranteed by the Constitutior P. 102.
(c) Although the rights of employers and 'employees are subject to modificqtion or qualification in the public interest, it does
not follow that the State in dealing with the evils arising from
industrial disputes may impair the effective exercise of the right
to discuss freely industrial relations which are matters of public
concern. P. 103.
(d) While the State may take adequate steps to preserve the
peace and to protect the privacy, the lives, and the property of its
people, yet no clear and present danger of destruction of life or
property, or invasion of the right of privacy, can be thought to be
inherent in the activities of every person who approaches the
premises of an employer and publicizes the facts of a labor
dispute. P. 105.
(e) There is not here involved any question of picketing en
masse, or otherwise conducted, which might occasion such imminent and aggravated danger to the community interests as to
justify a statute narrowly drawn to cover the precise situation
out of which the danger arises. P. 105.
(f) That it applies only when the proscribed activities are engaged in at the scene of a labor dispute, can not justify the
statute. P. 106.
28 Ala. App. 527; 189 So. 913, reversed.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Re. Qndent.

310 U. S.

308 U. S. 547, toi eview "theaffirmance of
a conviction under a penal statute of Alabama. The
state Supreme Court denied a petition for certiorari.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. James J. Mayfield and Joseph A. Padway for
petitioner.
Mr. William H. Loeb, Assistant Attorney General of
Alabama, with whom Mr. Thos. S. Lawson, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
-Freedom of speech and of assembly is not an absolute
right' Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652.
Petitioner was not convicted for his words alone. ,Elis
conviction rested upon the fact that he had gathered
with others in a picket line for the purpose, not of advancing the picketers' interests, but of wilfully injuring
the company.
If a person speaks in support of his own rights and for
the purpose of advancing his own cause, there is no
offense under § 3448. Nor is assembly for the lawful
purpose of peaceful action prohibited. If, on the other
hand, a member of a picket -speaks for the purpose of
injuring another or if the picket assembles unlawfully
and in a threatening manner, the speaking and assembling become unlawful. See Robertson v. Baldwin, 165
U. S. 275, 281; Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co.,
221 U. S. 418, 439.
Whether petitioner was denied the liberties guaranteed him by the Fourteenth Amendment must be construed in the light of the facts which appear of record.
Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52; Aikers .
Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205, 206.
Petitioner was a member of a picket line located very
close to the place of business of his former employer and
was a member of a group of picketers consisting of a relatively large number-considering the location of the
picket and the number of employees of the plant. It

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

88

was not a "peaceful picket" but an offensive and unjustifiable annoyance calculated to bring about public disturbance and breaches of the peace. Petitioner, being
the champion of only his own rights, can not be heard to
assail as unconstitutional a statute which did not prohibit
him from striking, or from presenting to others his side
of the controversy, but barred him only from acts
inherently wrong.
MR. JusTICE MuPnY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, Byron Thornhill, was convicted in the Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, of the violation of § 3448 of the State Code of 1923.1 The Code section
reads as follows:
"Section 3448. Loitering or picketing forbidden.-Any
person or persons, who, without a just cause or legal excuse therefor, go near to or loiter about the premises or
place of business of any other person, firm, corporation, or
association of people, engaged in a lawful business, for
the purpose, or with the intent of inflftencing, or inducing
other persons not to trade with, buy from, sell to, have
business dealings with, or be employed by such persons,
firm, corporation, or association, or who picket the works
or place of business of such other persons, firms, corporations, or associations of persons, for the purpose of hindering, delaying, or interfering with or injuring any lawful
business or enterprise of another, shall be guilty of a
1 Petitioner

was first charged and convicted in the Inferior Court

of Tuscaloosa County and sentenced to imprisonment for fifty-nine
days in default of payment of a fine of one hundred dollars and costs.
Upon appeal to the Circuit Court, another complaint was filed and a
trial de aovo was had pursuant to the local practice. The Circuit
Court sentenced petitioner, upon his conviction, to imprisonment for
seventy-three days in default of payment of a fine of one hundred
dollars and costs.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

misdemeanor; but nothing herein shall prevent any person from soliciting trade or business for a competitive
business."
The complaint against petitioner, which is set out in
the margin, is phrased substantially in the very words of
the statute. The first and second counts charge that
petitioner, without just cause or legal excuse, did "go
near to or loiter about the premises" of the Brown Wood
Preserving Company with the intent or purpose of influencing others to adopt one of enumerated courses of
conduct. In the third count, the charge is that petitioner "did picket" the works of the Company "for the
purpose of hindering, delaying or interfering with or injuring [its]lawful business." Petitioner demurred to the
complaint on the grounds, among others, that § 3448 was
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States in
2"1. The State of Alabama, by its Solicitor, complains of Byron
Thornhill that, within twelve months before the commencement of
this prosecution he did without just cause or legal excuse therefor,
go near to or loiter abQut the premises or place of business of another
person, firm, corporation, or association of people, to-wit: the Brown
Wood Preserving Company, Inc., a corporation, engaged in a lawful
business, for the purpose or with ttfe intent of influencing or inducing
other persons not to trade with, buy from, sell to, have business
dealings with, or be employed by the said Brown Wood Preserving
Company, Inc., a corporation, for the purpose of hindering, delaying,
or interfering with or injuring the lawful business or enterprise of
the said Brown Wood Preserving Company, Inc., a corporation.
"2. [The second count is identical with the first, except thdt the last
clause, charging a purpose to hinder, delay, or interfere, etc., with the
the Preserving Company, is omitted.]
business
lawful
. "3. The
Stateof of
Alabama, by its Solicitor, complains of Byron
Thornhill that, within twelve months before the commencement of
this prosecution he did picket the works or place of business of another
person, fim, corporation, or association of people, to-wit, the Brown
Wood Preserving Company, Inc., a corporation, for the purpose of
hindering, delaying, or interfering with or injuring the lawful business
or enterprise of the said Brown Wood Preserving Company, Inc., E
corporation."

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

that it deprived him of "the right of peaceful assemblage,"
"the right of freedom of speech," and "the right to petition for redress." The demurrer, so far as the record
shows, was not ruled upon, and petitioner pleaded not
guilty. The Circuit Court then proceeded to try the case
without a jury, one not being asked for or demanded.
At the close of the case for the State, petitioner moved to
exclude all the testimony taken at the trial on the ground
that § 3448 was violative of the Constitution of the United
States
The Circuit Court overruled the motion, found
petitioner "guilty of Loitering and Picketing as charged
in the complaint," and entered judgment accordingly.
The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
which considered the constitutional question and sustained the section on the authority of two previous decisions in the Alabama courts.4 O'Rourke v. Birmingham,
27 Ala. App. 133; 168 So. 206, cert. denied, 232 Ala. 355;
168 So. 209; Harcdie-Tynes Mfg. Ca. v. Cruise, 189 Ala.
66; 66 So. 657. A petition for certiorari was denied by
the Supreme Court of the State. The case is here on
certiorari granted because of the Importance of the questions presented. 308 U. S.547.
The proofs consist of the testimony of two witnesses for
the prosecution. 5 It appears that petitioner on the morn'The petitioner also moved to exclude the testimony on the ground
that it was insufficient to sustain a conviction. Upon being asked by
the Court whether he insisted on this ground, however, counsel for
petitioner stated that the only question he wanted to raise was the
constitutionality of the statute.
'The .Court of Appeals stated: "It seems clear enough that the
evidence adduced upon the trial was sufficient to bring appellant's
actions, for which he was being prosecuted, within the purview of the
prohibition implied in said Statute.
"So, as conceded by able counsel here representing appellant, 'the
only question involved in this appeal is the constitutionality vel non
of Section 3448 of the Code of Alabama of 1923.'"
No'evidence was offered on behalf of petitioner.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

iag of his arrest was seen "in company with six or eight
other men" "on the picket line" at the plant of the Brown
Wood Preserving Company. Some weeks previously a
strike order had been issued by.a Union, apparently affiliated with the American Federation of Labor, which had
as members all but four of the approximately one hundred
employees of the plant. Since that time a picket line
with two picket posts of six to eight men each had been
maintained around the plant twenty-four hours a day.
The picket posts appear to have beenon Company property, "on a private entrance for employees, and not on
any public road." One witness explained'that practically
all of the employees live on Conipany property and get
their mail from a post office on Company property and
that the Union holds its meetings on Company property.
No demand was ever made upon the men not to come on
the property. There is no testimony indicating the nature of the dispute between the Union and the Preserving
Company, or the course of events which led to the issuance
of the strike order, or the nature of 'the efforts for
conciliation.
The Company scheduled a day for the plant to resume
operations. One of the witnesses, Clarence Simpson, who
was not a member of the Union, on reporting to the plant
on the day indicated, was approached by petitioner who
told him that "they were on strike and did not want anybody to go up'there to work." None of the other employees said anything-to Simpson, who testified: -"Neither
Mr. Thornhill nor any other employee threatened me on
the occasion testified to. Mr. Thornhill approached me
in a peaceful manner, and did not put me in fear; he did
not appear to be mad." "I then turned and went back to
the house, and did not go to work." The other witness,
J. M. Walden, testified: "At the time Mr. Thornhill and
Clarence Simpson were talking to each other, there was
no one else present, and I heard no harsh words and saw

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

nothing threatening in the manner of either man."' For
engaging in some or all of these activities, petitioner was
arrested, charged, and convicted as described.
First. The freedom of speech and of the press, which are

'secured by the First Amendment against abridgment by
the United States, are among the fundamental personal
rights and liberties which are secured to all persons by
Amendment against abridgment by a
the Fourteenth
7
State.
The safeguarding of these rights to the ends that men
may speak as they think on matters vital to them and that

falsehoods may be exposed through the processes of education and discussion is essential to free government.
Those who won our independence had confidence in the
power of free and fearless reasoning and communication
of ideas to discover and spread political and economic

truth. Noxious doctrines in those fields may be refuted
and their evil averted by the courageous exercise of the

right of free discussion. Abridgment of freedom of speech
and of the press, however, impairs those opportunities for
public education that are essential to-effective exercise of
the power of correcting error through the processes of
popular goverhment. Compare United States v. Carolene
Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152-153n. Mere legislative
preference for one rather than another means for combatting substantive evils, therefore, may well prove an inade'Simpson and Walden are not in entire accord with respect to~the
number of persons present during the conversation between Simpson

and petitioner. A possible inference from Simpson's testimony, considered by itself, is that petitioner was in the company of six or eight
others when the conversation took place. This difference is not material in our view of the case.
"Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S.
444, 450; De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353; Grosjean v. American
Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 244; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S.697, 707;
Stromberg v. California,283 U. S.359, 368; Gitlow v. New York, 268
U. S. 652, 666. See Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 326-327.

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

quate foundation on which to rest regulations which are
aimed at or in their operation diminish the effective exercise of rights so necessary to the maintenance of democratic institutions. It is imperative that, when the effective exercise of th~se rights is claimed to be abridged, the
courts should "weigh the circUmstances" and "appraise
the substantiality of the reasons advanced" in support of
the challenged regulations. Schneider v. State, 30 U. S.
147, 161, 162.
Second. The section in question must be judged upon
its face.
The finding against petitioner was a general one. It
The
did not specify the testimony upon which it rested
charges were framed in the words of the statute and so
must be given a like construction. The courts below txpressed no intention of narrowing the construction put
upon the statute by prior state. decisions.' In these circumstance, there is no occasion to go behind the face of
the statute or of the complaint for the purpose of determining whether the evidence, together with the permissible inferences to bs drawn from it, could ever suppbrt a
conviction founded upon different and more precise
charges. "Conviction upon a charge not made would be
sheer denial of due process." De Jonge v. Oregon, 299
U. S. 353, 362; Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359,
367-368. The State urges that petitioner may not complain of the deprivation of any rights but his own. It
would not follow that on this record petitioner could not
complain of the sweeping regulations here challenged.
The trial court merely found petitioner "guilty of Loitering and
Picketing as charged in the complaint."
"The Court of Appeals determined merely that the evidence was
sufficient to support the conviction under § 3448. See note 4, supra.
It then sustained -the judgment in reliance upon O'Rourke v.
Birmingham, 27 Ala. App. 133; 168 So. 206, cert. denied, 232 Ala. 355;
168 So. 209; and Hardie-Tynes Mfg. Co. v. Cruise, 189 Ala. 66; 66
So. 657.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

There is a further reason for testing the section on its
face. Proof of an abuse of power in the particular case
has never been deemed a requisite for attack on the con-.
stitutionality of a statute purporting to license the dissemination of ideas. Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147,
162-165; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 516; Lovell v.
Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 451. The cases when interpreted
in the light of their facts indicate that the rule is not based
upon any assumption that application for the license
would be refused or would result in the imposition of other
unlawful regulations."0 Rather it derives from an appreciation of the character of the evil inherent in a licensing
system. The power of the licensor against which John
M.ilton directed his assault by his "Appeal for the Liberty
of Unlicensed Printing" is pernicious not merely by reason
of the censure of particular comments but by reason of the
threat to censure comments on matters of public concern.
It is not merely the sporadic abuse of power by the censor
but the pervasive threat inherent in its very existence
that constitutes the danger to freedom of discussion. See
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 713. One who might
have had a license for the asking may therefore call into
question the whole scheme of licensing when he is prosecuted for failure to procure it. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S.
444; Hague v. C. L 0., 307 U. S. 496. A like threat is inherent in a penal statute, like that in question here, which
does not aim specifically at evils within the allowable area
of state control but, on. the contrary, sweeps within its
ambit other activities that in ordinary circumstances constitute an exercise of freedom of speech or of the press.
The existence of such a statute, which readily lends itself
to harsh and discriminatory enforcement by local proseCompare Electrc Bond Co. v. Comm'n, 303 U. S. 419; Smith v.
Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 562; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 186;
Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53, 55, 56; Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242
U. S. 539, 553, 554.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

'310 U. S.

cuting officials, against particular groups deemed to merit
their displeasure, 'results in a continuous and pervasive
restraint on all freedom of discussion that might reasonably be regarded as within its purview.1I It is not any less
effective or, if the restraint is'not permissible, less pernicious than the restraint on freedom of discussion imposed
by the threat of censorship. ' An accused, after arrest and
conviction under such a statute, does not have to sustain
the burden of demonstrating that the State could not constitutionally have writ'ten a different 'and specific statute
cbvering his activities ag disclosed by the charge and the
evidence introduced against him. ISchneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147, 155, 162-163. Where' regulations of the liberty of free discussion are concerned, there are special reasons for observing the rule that it is the statute, and not
the accusation or the evidence under it, which prescribes
the limits of permissible conduct and warns against transgression. Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359, 368;
Schneiderv. State, 308 U. S. 147, 155, 162-163. Compare
Lanzettav. New Jersey, 306 U. S. 451.
Third. Section 3448 has been!appliedby the state courts
so as to prohibit a single individual from walking slowly
and peacefully back and forth on the public sidewalk in
The record in the case at bar permits the inference that, while
picketing had been carried on for several weeks, with six to eight men
at each of two picket posts; § 3448 was not enforced against anyone

other than petitioner, the Union President, and then only after his
conversation with Simpson who thereupon returned home rather than
report for work.
'A distinguished commentator has observed that "the liberty of
the press might be rendered-a mockery and a delusion, and the phrase
itself a byword, if, while every man was at liberty to publish what
he pleased, the public authorities niiight nevertheless punish him for
harmless publications.' 2 Cooley, Const. Lina., 8th ed., p. 885. See
Madison's Report on the Virginia Resolutions, 4' Ell. Deb., 2d ed.,

1876, p. 569; Address on the Conduct of the Maryland Convention
of 1788, 2 id., p. 552.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

front of the premises of an employer, without speaking to
anyone, carrying a sign or placard on a staff above his head
stating only the fact that the employer did not employ
union men affiliated with the American Federation of
Labor; - the purpose of the described activity was concededly to advise customers and prospective customers of
the relationship existing between the employer and its
employees and thereby to induce such customers not to
patronize the employer. O'Rourke v. Birmingham, 27
Ala. App. 133; 168 So. 206, cert. denied, 232 Ala. 355; 168
So. 209.' The statute as thus authoritatively construed
and applied leaves room for no exceptions based upon
either the number of persons engaged in the proscribed
activity, the peaceful character of their demeanor, the nature of their dispute with an employer, or the restrained
character and the accurateness of the terminology used in
notifying the public of the facts of the dispute.
The numerous forms of conduct proscribed by § 3448
are subsumed under two offenses: the first embraces the
activities of all who "without just cause or legal excuse"
"go near to or loiter about the premises" of any person
engaged in a lawful business for the purpose of influencing or inducing others to adopt any of certain enumerated
courses of action; the second, all who "picket" the place
of business of any such person "for the ptipose of hindering, delaying or interfering with or injuting any lawful business or enterprise of another." ' It is apparent
The employer in fact had locked oilt its union stagehands and was
working others not regularly employed as stagehands in admitted

violation of the National Industrial Recovery Act.
" Acqused there asserted that the application of § 3448 to the
particular facts of his case deprived him of rights guaranteed to him
by the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court of Appeals passed upon

this constitutional question and decided it adversely '. the contentions

of accused.
0 There is a proviso that "nothing herein shall prevent any person
from soliciting trade or business for a competitive business."

100

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

that one or the other of the offenses comprehends every.
practicable method whereby the facts of a labor dispute
may be publicized in the vicinity of the place of business
of an employer. The phrase "without just cause or legal
excuse" does hot in any effective manner restrict the
breadth of the regulation; the words themselves have no
ascertainable meaning either inherent or historical. Com&'
pare Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306 U. S. 451, 453-455.
The courses of action, listed under the first offense; which
an accused-including an employe--may not urge others
to 'take, comprehends those which in many instances
would. normally result fron- merely publicizing, without
annoyance or threat of any kind, the facts of a labor dispute. An intention to hinder, delay or interfere with a
lawful business, which is an-element of the second offense,
likewise can be proved merely by showing that others
reacted in a way normally expectable of some upon learning the facts of a dispute."7 The vague contours of the
"So far as the phrase may have been given meaning by the state
courts it apparently grants authority to the court and the jury to
consider defensive matter brought forward by the accused, depending
for its sufficiency not upon rules of general application but upon the
peculiar facts of each case. See Owens v. State, 74 Ala. 401; Bailey v.
State, 161 Ala. 75; 49 So. 886; Folmar v. State, 19 Ala. App. 435;
97 So. 768. Compare O'Rourke v. Birmingham, 27 Ala. App. 133;
168 So. 206, cert. denied, 232 Ala. 355; 168 So. 209.
2The
only direct evidence in the case at bar to show that the
activity of petitioner was accompanied by the necessary intent or
purpose is the fact that one other employee, after talking with petitioner, refrained from reporting for work as planned. There is evidence here that the other employee was acquainted with the facts
prior to his conversation with petitioner. 'The State concedes, however, that under § 3448 everyone must be deemed to intend the natural
and probable consequences of his acts. See Jacobs v. State, 17 Ala.
App. 396; 85 So. 837; Reed v. State, 18 Ala. App. 371; 92 So. 513;
Weeks v. State, 24 Ala. App. 198; 132 So. 870, dert. denied, 222 Ala.
442; 132 So. 871; Worrell v. State, 24 Ala. App. 313; 136 So. 737,
cert. denied, 223 Ala. 425; 136 So. 738.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

term "picket" are nowhere delineated."" Employees or
-others, accordingly, may be found to be within the purview of the term and convicted for engaging in activities
identical with those proscribed by the first offense. In
sum, whatever the means used to publicize the facts of a
labor dispute, whether by printed sign, by pamphlet, by
word of mouth or otherwise, all such activity without exception is within the inclusive , -i.l'ibition of the statute
so long as it occurs in the - inity of the scene of the
dispute.
Fourth. We think that § 3448 is invalid on its face.
The freedom of speech and, of the press guaranteed
by the Constitution embraces at the least the liberty
to discuss publicly and tiuthfully all matters of public
concern without previous restraint or fear of subsequent
See Hellerstein, Picketing Legislation aizd the Courts (1931), 10
No. Car. L. Rev. 158, 186n.: "A picketer may: (1) Merely observe
workers or customers. (2) Communicate information, e. g., that a
strike is in progress, making either true, untrue or libelous statements.
(3) Persuade employees or customers not to engage in relations with

the employer: (a) through the use of banners, without speaking, carrying true, untrue or libelous legends; (b) by speaking, (i) in a calm,
dispassionate manner, (ii) in a heaed, hostile manner, (iii) using
abusive epithets and profanity, (iv) yelling loudly, (v) by persisting
in making arguments when employees br customers refuse to listen;
(c) by offering money or similar inducements to strike breakers. (4)
Threaten employees or customers: (a) by the mere presence of the
picketer; the presence may be a threat of, (i) physical violence,
(ii) social ostracism, being branded in the community as a "scab,"
(iii) a trade or employees' boycott, i. e., preventing workers from
securing employment and refusing to trade with customers, (iv)
threatening injury to property; (b) by'verbal threats. (5) Assaults
and use of violence. (6)Destruction of property. (7) Blocking
of entrances and interference with traffic.
"The picketer may engage in a combination of any of the types
of conduct enumerated above. The picketing may be carried on singly
or in groups; it may be directed to employees alone or to customers
alone or to both. It may involve persons who have contracts with
the employer or those who have not or both."

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

punishment." The exigencies of the colonial period and
the, efforts to secure freedom from oppressive administration developed a broadened conception of these liberties as adequate to supply the public need for information
and education with respect to the significant issues of
The Continental Congress in its letter sent
the times.2
to the Inhabitants of Quebec (October 26, 1774) referred
to the ",five great rights" and said: "The last right we
shall mention, regards the freedom of the press. The
importance of this consists, besides the advancement of
truth, science, morality, and arts in general, in its diffusion
of liberal sentiments on the administration of Government, its ready communication of thoughts between subjecfs, and its consequential promotion of union among
them, whereby oppressive officers are ashamed or intimidated, into more honourable and just modes of conducting
affairs.". Journal of the Continental Congress, 1904 ed.,
vol. I, pp. 104, 108. Freedom of discussion, if it would
fulfill its historic function in this nation, must embrace
all issues 'about which information is needed or appropriate to -enable the members of society to cope with the
exigencies of their period.
In the circumstances of our times the dissemination of
information concerning' the facts of a labor dispute must
be regarded as within that area of -free discussion that
is guaranteed by-the Constitution. Hague v. C. I. 0.,
307 U. S. 496; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 155,
162-63. See Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468,
2"

Stromberg v. California. 283 .U. S. 359; Near v. Minnesota, 283

U. S. 697; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Hague v. C. L 0., 307 U. S.
496; Schneiderv. State, 308 U. S. 147.
"See Duniway,- The Development of Freedom of the Press in
Massachusetts,p. 123 et seq.; Tyler, Literary History of the American
Revolution, passim; 2 Bancroft, History of the United States, p. 261;
Schofield, Freedom of the Press in the United States (1914), 9 Proc.
Am. Sociol. Soc. 67, 76, 80.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

478. It is recognized now that satisfactory hours and
wages and working conditions in industry and a bargaining position which makes these possible have an importance which is not less than the interests of those in the
business or industry directly concerned. The health of
the present generation and of those as yet unborn may
depend on these matters, and the practices in a single
factory may have eccnoric repercussions upon a whole
region and affect widespreau systems of marketing. The
merest glance at state and federal legislation on the
-subject demonstrates the force of the argument that labor
relations are not matters of mere local or private concern.
Free discussion concerning .the conditions in industry and
the causes of labor disputes appears to us indispensable
to the effective and intelligent use of the processes of
popular government to shape the destiny of modern industrial society. The issues raised by regulations, such
as are challenged here, infringing upon the right of employees effectively to inform the public of the facts of
a labor dispute are part of this larger problem. We.
concur in the observation of Mr. Justice Brandeis, speaking for the Court in Senn's case (301 U. S. at 478):
"Members of a union might, without special statutory
authorization by a State, make known the facts of a
labor dispute, for freedom of speech is guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution."
. It is true that the rights of employers and employees
to conduct their economic affairs and to compete with
others for a share in the products of industry are subject
to modification or qualification ii the interests of the
society in which they exist." This is but an instance
See, e. g., Senn v. Tile Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; Ethyl Gasoline

Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436; National Labor Relations Board
v. Newport News Co., 308 U. S. 241; West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,
.300 U. S. 379; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Dorchy v.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S. "

of the power of the State to set the limits of permissible
contest open to industrial c6mbatants. See. Mr. Justice
Brandeis in 254 U. S. at 488. It does not follow that the
State in, dealing with" the evils arising from industrial
disputes mal impair the effective exercise of the right
to--discuss freely industrial relations which are matters
of public concern. A contrary conclusion could be used'
to support abridgment of freedom: of speech and of the
press concerning almost every matter of importance to
society.
The range of activities proscribed by § 3448, whether
characterized as picketing or loitering or otherwise, embraces nearly every practicable, effective means whereby
those interested-including the employees directly affected-may enlighten the public on the nature and causes
of a labor dispute. The safeguarding of these means is
essential to The securing of an informed and educated pub'lic opinion with respect to a matter which is of public concern. It may be that effective exercise of the means of
advancing public knowledge may persuade some of those
reached to refrain from entering into advantageous relations with the business establishment which is the scene
of the dispute. Every expression of opinion on matters
that are importint. has the potentiality of inducing action
in the interests 'of, one rather than another group in
society. . But the group in power at any moment. may
not impose" penal sanctions on peaceful and truthful
discussion of matters of public interest merely on a
showing that others may thereby be persuaded to take
action incohsistent with its interests. Abridgment of the
liberty of such discussion can be justified only where the
Kansas, 272 U. S. 306; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600; Aikens v. Wisconsin,. 195 U. S. 194;
Holden v Hardy. 169 U. S. 366.

THORNHILL v. ALABAMA.
88

Opinion of the Court.

clear danger of *substantive evils arises under circumstances affording no opportunity to test the merits of
ideas by competition for acceptance in the market of
public opinion.2 We hold that the danger of injury to
an industrial concern is neither so serious nor so imminent
as to justify the sweeping proscription of freedom of discussion embodied in § 3448.
The State urges that tht purpose of the ctiallenged
statute is the protection of the community from the violence and breaches of the peace, whichit asserts, are -the
concomitants of picketing. The power and the duty
of the State to take adequate steps to preserve the peace
and to protect the privacy, the lives, and the property of
its residents cannot be doubted. But no clear and present
danger of destruction of life or property, or invasion of
the right of privacy, or breach of the peace can be thought
to be inherent in the activities of every person -who approaches the premises of an employer and publicizes the
facts of a labor dispute involvin, the latter. We are not
now concerned with picketing en masse or otherwise conducted which might occasion such imminent and aggravated danger to these interests as to justify a statute narrowly drawn to cover the precise situation giving rise to
the danger. Compare Ameriam Foundries v. Tri-City
Council, 257 U. S. 184, 205. Section 3448 in question
here does; riot aim specifically at serious encroachments
on these interests and does not evidence any such care in
balancing these interests against the interest of the community and that of the individual in freedom of discussion on matters of public concern.
It is not enough to say that § 3448 is limited or restricted in its application to such activity as takes place
at the scene of the labor dispute. "[The] streets'are
'See Mr. Justice Holmes in 249 U. S. at 52; 250 U. S. at 630.

.106

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

natural and proper places for the dissemination of infdrmation and opinion; and one is not to have the exercise
of his liberty of expression in appropriate places abridged
on the plea that it may be exercised in some other place."
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161, 163; Hague v.
C. L 0., 307 U. S. 496, 515-162 The danger of breach
of the peace or serious invasion of rights of property or
privacy at the scene of a labor dispute is not sufficiently
imminent in. all cases to warrant the legislature in determining that such place is not appropriate for the range of
activities outlawed by § 3448.

Reversed.
3&, JUSTICE MCREYNOLDSiS of opinion that the judgment below should be affirmed.

CARLSON v. CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 667.

Argued February 29, March 1, 1940--Decided April 22,

1940.
A municipal ordinance making it unlawful for any person to carry
or display any sign, banner or badge in the vicinity of any
* place of business for the purpose of inducing %thers to refrain
from buying or working there, or for any person to "loiter" or
"picket" in the vicinity of any place of business for such purpose,
held unconstitutional upon the authority of Thornhill v. Alabama.
ante, p. 88.
Reversed.
The fact that the activities for which petitioner was arrested
and convicted took place on the private property of the Preserving
Company is without significance. Petitioner and the other employees
were never treated as trespassers;.as-suming that they could be where
the Company owns such a substantial part of the town. See p. 94,
supra. And § 3448, in any event, must be tested upon its face.

