SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
Counsel for Parties.

268

charterer's business to obtain supplies to keep the vessel
on her way and the charter has not prohibited reliance
upon the credit of the vessel.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
SONTAG CHAIN STORES CO., LTD. v. NATIONAL
NUT COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 671.

Argued April 24, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

1. One who, subsequently to the issuance of a patent but prior to
the filing of an application for a reissue patent on broadened claims,
put into use a machine which it is alleged infringes the reissue
patent, though it does not infringe the original patent, held, in the
absence of fraud or bad faith, to have acquired intervening rights
which barred injunctive relief against continued use of the accused
machine. Pp. 282, 293-295.
2. That at the time the accused machine was first put into use the
alleged infringer was without actual knowledge of the original patent,
does not defeat the claim of intervening rights. P. 295.
3. Assumed, but not decided, that (apart from the question of intervening rights) the reissue patent here involved was valid and infringed. P. 285.
107 F. 2d 318, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 645, to review the reversal of a
decree denying an injunction to restrain alleged infringement of a patent.

Mr. Guy A. Gladson, with whom Messrs. Franklin M.
Warden and Arthur D. Welton, Jr. were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Hugh N. Orr, with whom Mr. Charles S. Evans
was on the brief, for respondent.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
'Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals,'declared respondent's
reissue patent No. 20,024, for a nut treating apparatus,
valid and infringed by petitioner's use of the accused machine, and rejected the defense of -intervening rights.
The.record requires us to consider what effect an. enlarged
inclusive reissue claim has upon the use of a machine
manufactured and operated after grant of the original
patent- without infringing it, but which does come within
the enlargement.
Kohler's patent-No. 1,958,409-with four narrow
claims, issued Xfay 15, 1934.
Petitioner procured and'began to use the machine here
accused about April 1, .1935. It first obtained actual
knowledge of the original patent Odtober 8, 1935 when
notice of infringement was received. Nothing shows
earlier knowledge by 'the manufacturer who began' to
make and sell like machines not, later than August
1934.
By suit filed in the District Court,' October 19, 1935,
respondent charged petitioner with infringing the original
patent, and asked appropriate relief. Infringement was
denied by answer, November 22, 1935.
January 15, 1936 respondent applied for and on June
30, 1936 obtained a reissue patent-No. 20,024-with
seventeen claims. The first four were identical with the
original ones; thirteen of broader scope cover petitioner's
machine. Respondent was moved to obtain the reissue
by petitioner's use of the accused machine.
January 26, 1937 respondent began another proceeding
charging infringement of the enlarged claims. Petitioner's answer relied upon intervening rights acquired
through public use withoutviolating the original patent;
also, invalidity of the reissue because of laches. The two

,SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
281

283

Opinion of the Court.

suits were consolidated; claims one to four were not relied on. A single decree went for petitioner., Both bills
were dismissed.
Infringement of respondent's design patent No. 89,347-February 28, 1933-was alleged, but both courts
declared it not infringed. No point in respect of it is
before us.
The District Court held-"That with respect to Kohler
Reissue Letters Patent No. 20,024 in suit, this defendant
and those in privity with it, including the manufacturer
of the machine in question, acquired intervening rights
which in equity plantiff may -notnow disturb." The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and directed a remand.
107 F. 2d 318.
The cause is here by certiorari. Petitioner asserts the
reissue patent is void because of laches; also that by
reason of acquired intervening rights, use of the accused
machine may continue.
The provision concerning reissues in the present Patent
Act, § 4916 Revised Statutes as amended by Act May 24,
1928, c. 730, 45 Stat. 732; U. S. C. Title 35, § 64, is copied in the margin.' It derives through the Acts July 3,
"'Whenever any patent is wholly or partly inoperative or invalid,
by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, or by reason of
the patentee claiming as his own invention or discovery more than
he had a right to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertence,
accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent -or deceptive intention, the commissioner shall, on the surrender of such patent and
the payment of the duty required by law, cause a patent for the same
invention, and in accordance with the corrected specification, to be
reissued to the patentee or to his assigns or legal representatives, for
the unexpired part of the term of the original patent. Such sur-

render shall take effect upon the issue of the reissued patent, but
in so far as the claims of the original and reissued patents are identical,

such surrender shall not affect any action then pending nor abate any
cause of action then existing, and the reissued patent to the extent

..that its claims are identical with the original patent shall constitute

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion 'of the Court.

310 U.S.

1832, c. 162, § 3, 4 Stat. 559; July 4, 1836, c. 357, § 13,
5 Stat. 117, 122; March 3, 1837, c. 45,, §,5, 5 Stat. 191,
192; July 8, 1870, c. 230, § 53, 16 Stat. 198, 205.

The reissue provision, Act 1832, was supplanted without change presently important by the corresponding one
in the 1836 Act. This was substantially reenacted in
1870. Modifications by the 1928 Act are not important

here. Stimpson v. West Chester Railroad Co., -(1846)
4 How. 380, 402; Parker & Whipple Co. v. Yale Clock

Co., (1887) 123 U. S. 87, 96; Walker on Patents, Deller's
edition -(1937), Vol. 2, p. 1342; Robinson on Patents
(1890) Vol. 2, § 653 et seq.
These-provisions have often bepn before the courts and

there are sharply differing views concerning them.

Some

of the pertinent cases are:noted below.2
a continuation thereof and have effect continuously' from the date
of the original patent. The commissioner may, in his discretion, cause
several patents to be issued for distinct andseparate parts of the
thing patented, upon demand of the applicant, and upbn payment
of the required fee for a reissue for each of such reissued letters
patent. The specifications and claims in every such case shall be"
subject to revision and restriction in the same manner as original
applications are. Every patent so reissued, together with the corrected specifications,'shall have the same effect and operation in law,
on the trial of all actions for causes thereafter arising, as if the same
had been originally -filed in'such corrected form; but no new matter
shall be introduced into the specification, nor in case of a machine
patent shall- the model or drawings be amended, except each by the
other; but when there is neither model nor drawing, amendments
may be made upon proof satisfactory to the commissioner that such
new matter or amendment was a part of the original invention, and
was omitted from the specification by inadvertence, accident, or
mistake, as aforesaid."
, Stimpson v. West Chester Railroad Co. (1846) 4 How. 380; Battin
v. Taggert, (1854) 17 How. 74; Miller v. Brass Co., (1881) 104 U. S.
.3.;Mahn v. Harwood, (1884) 112 U. S. 354; Coon v. Wilson, (1885Y
113 U. S. 268; Wollensak v. Reiher, (1885) 115 U. S. 96; White v.
Dunbar, (1886) 119 U. S. 47; Newton v.;;Furst & Bradley Co.,'

SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
281

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals after holding the enlarged
reissue claims valid and infringed further declared-"In
the instant case there was admittedly ,no knowledge of
or reliance on the scope of plaintiff's patent, and no facts
creating an estoppel. Furthermor&, defendant has not
shown a two-years user of the infringing patent. The
defense of intervening rights is denied."
For present purposes we assume, without deciding, correctness of the conclusion that the reissue patent was
valid and infringed, and upon that assumption, we come
to consider the effect of the enlarged claims upon petitioner's machine, lawfully manufactured and operated
prior to their inception. There is nothing to show dishonesty, bad faith, or deceptive intention upon petitioner's part.
Counsel for respondent insist the denial of intervening
rights finds adequate support in Stimpson.v. West Chester
Railroad Co., supra; Battin v. Taggert, supra; White v.
Dunbar, supra; Topliff v. Topliff, supra;Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, supra. The first two are in point;
but when considered in connection with later opinions
are not decisive of the present issue. The other cases
relied upon are not especially helpful.
(1886) 119 U. S. 373; Ives v. Sargent, (1887) 119 U. S. 652; Parker
& Whipple Co. v. Yale Clock Co., (1887) 123 U. S. 87; Electric
Gas Co. v. Boston Electric Co., '(1891) 139 U. S. 481; Topliff v.
Topliff, (1892) 145 U. S. 156; Leggett v. Standard Oil Co., (1893)
149 U. S. 287;Dunham v. Dennison Manufacturing Co., (1894) 154
U. S. 103; Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, (1917) 245 U. S.
198; Keller v. Adams-Campbell Co., (1924) 264 U. S. 314, and cases
there cited; Altoona Theatres v. Tri-Ergon Corp., (1935) 294 U. S.
477; Wooster v. Handy, (1884) 21 F. 51; Ashley v. Samuel C. Tatum
Co., (1917) 240 F. 979; General Refractories Co. v. Ashland Fire'
Brick Co., (1926) 15 F. 2d 215, reversed on appeal (1928) 27 F.
2d 744; Christman v. New York Air Brake Co, (1928) 1 F. Supp.
211; Moto Meter Gauge & Equipment Corp. v. E. A. Laboratories,
(1932) 55 F. 2d 936.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310U.S.

The Patent Act of 1832 was a response to Grant v.
Raymond, (Feb. 23, 1832) 6 Pet. 218, 242, 243-244. The
opinion there (Chief Justice Marshall) affirmed the power
of the Secretary to grant an application dated April 20,
1825 for reissue of a patent dated August 11, 1821 although not expressly authorized so to do, upon the ground
that this was necessary in order to effect the purposes
of the Patent Act by securing to inventors full benefit
of their discoveries through "faithful execution of the
solemn promise made by the United States." The Court
said"An objection much relied oni is, that after the invention has been brought into general use, those skilled in
the art or science with which it is connected, perceiving
the variance between the specification and the machine,
and availing themselves of it, may have constructed, sold
and used the machine without infringing the legal rights
of the patentee, or incurring the penalties of the law.
The new patent would retro-act on them, and expose
them to penalties to which they were not liable when the
act was committed."
"This objection is more formidable in appearance than
in reality. It is not probable that the defect in the specification can be so apparent as to be perceived by any but
those who examine it for the purpose of pirating the invention. They are not entitled to much favour. But the
answer to the objection is, that this defence is not made
in this case; and the opinion of the circuit court does not
go so far as to say that such a defence would not be
successful. That question is not before the court, and is
not involved in the opinion we are considering. The defence when true in fact may be sufficient in law, notwithstanding the validity of the new patent"
Under the two year rule of Miller v. Brass Co., (1881)
supra, note'2, a reissue patent granted in circumstances

SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
281

287

Opinion of the Court.

like those disclosed by the report of Grant's case, now
would be declared invalid.
Stimpsonv. West Chester Railroad Co., (1846) supra,
note 2, involved infringement of a reissue, granted in
1835, of an original patent dated in 1831. The trial judge
charged the jury"It clearly appears that the defendants constructed
their railroad with the plaintiff's curves in 1834, one year
or more before the plaintiff's application for. his renewed
patent; consequently, they may continue its use without
liability to the plaintiff."
This was declared in conflict with the reissue provision
*Act of 1832 and the corresponding one. in the 1836 Act.
The two are declared substantially alike. The Court said"It is plain that no prior use of the defective patent can
authorize the use of the invention after the emanation of
the renewed patent under the above section. To give
to the patentee the fruits of his invention was the object
of the provision; and this object would be defeated, if a
right could be founded on a use subsequent to the original patent and prior to the renewed one. . . . Now any
person using an invention protected by a renewed patent subsequently to the date of this act is guilty of an
infringement, however long he may have used the same
after the date of the defective and surrendered patent."
Battin v. Taggert, (1854) supra, note 2, reaffirmed
&impson v. West Chester R. Co., and disapproved the
following instruction to the jury--"That a description,
by the applicant, for a patent of a machine, or a part of
a machine, in his specification, unaccompanied by notice
that he has rights in it as inventor, or that he desires to
secure title to it as a patentee, is a dedication of it to the
public. That *such a dedication cannot be revoked, after
the machine has passed into public use, either by surrender and reissue, or otherwise."

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310T. S.

The Court said-"Whether the defect be in the specifications or in the claim, under the 13th section [Act
1836] above cited, the patentee may surrender his patent, and, by an amended specification or claim, cure the
defect. The reissued patent must be for the same invention, substantially, though it be described in terms more
precise and accurate than in the first patent. Under
such circumstances, a new and different invention cannot
be claimed. But where the specification or claim is
made so vaguely as to be inoperative and invalid, yet an
amendment may give to it validity, and protect the
rights of the patentee against all subsequent infringenents." - ,,
--"'
So strongly was this remedy of the patent recom-mended, by a sense of. justice and of policy, that this
court, in the case of Grant v. Raymond, 6 Pet. 218, sustained a reissued and corrected patent, before any legislative provision was made on the subject."
,"Howmuch stronger is a case under the statute, which
secures the rights of the patentee by a surrender, and
declares the effect of the reissued and corrected patent?
By the defects provided fQr in the statute, nothing passes
to t~e public from the specifications or claims, within the
scope of -the patentee's invention. And this may be
ascertainedby the language he uses." [Italics supplied.]
Miller v. Brass Co.,' (1881) supra, note 2, departing
from the view expressed in Battin v. Taggert concerning
omissions in claims, declared"But it must be remembered that the claim of a specific device or comjination, and an omission to claim other
devices or combinations apparent on the face of the
patent, are, in law, a dedication to the public of that which
is not claimed. It is a declaration that that which is
not claimed is either not the patentee's invention, or, if
his, he dedicates it to the public. This legal effect of
the patent cannot be revoked unless the patentee sur-

SONTAG STORES CO, v. NUT CO.
281

Opinion of the Court.

renders it and'proves that the specification was framed
by real inadvertence, accident, or mistake, without any
fraudulent or deceptive intention on his part; and this
should be done with all due diligence and speed. Any
unnecessary laches or delay in a matter thus apparent on
the record affects the right to alter or reissue the patent
for such cause. If two years' public enjoyment of an
invention with the consent and allowance of the inventor
is evidence of abandonment, and a bar to an application
for a patent, a public disclaimer in the patent itself should
be construed equally favorable to the public. Nothing
but a clear mistake, or inadvertence, and a speedy application for its correction, is admissible when it is sought
merely to enlarge the claim."
"We think it clear that it was not the special purpose
of the legislation on this subject to authorize the surrender of patents for the purpose of reissuing them with
broader and more comprehensive claims, although, under
the general terms of the law, such a reissue may be made
where it clearly appears that an actual mistake has inadvertently been made. But by a curious misapplication
of the law it has come to be principally resorted to for
the purpose of enlarging and expanding patent claims.
And the evils which have grown from-the practice have
assumed large proportions. Patents have been so expanded and idealized, years after their first issue, that
hundreds and thousands ol mechanics and manufacturers,
who had just reason to suppose that the field of action
was open, have been obliged to discontinue their employments, or to pay an enormous tax for continuing
them."
Mahn v. Harwood (1884) supra, note 2, reaffirms
Miller v. Brass Company, and declares"The public is notified and informed by the most
solemn act on the part of the patentee, that his claim to
-invention is for such and*such an element or combina-

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

tion, and for nothing more. Of course, what is not
claimed is public property. The presumption is, and
such is generally the fact, that what is not claimed was
not invented by the patentee, but Was known and used
.before he made his invention. But, whether so or- not,
his own act has made it public property if it was not, so
before. The patent itself, as soon as it is issued, is the
evidence of this. The public has the undoubted right to
use, and it is to be presumed does use, what is not spe.cificallyclaimed in the patent. Every day that passes
after the issue of the pitent adds to the strength of this
right, and increases the barrier against subsequent expansion of the claim by reissue under a pretence of inadver'tence and mistake."
"The truth -is (as was shown in Mill&e v. The Brass
Company), that this class of cases, namely, reissues for
the purpose of enlarging and expanding the claim of a
patent, was not 'comprised within the literal terms of
the law which created the power to reissue patents. But
since the purpose of the statute undoubtedly was to provide that kind of relief which courts of equity have always given in cases of clear accident and mistake in the
drawing up of written instruments, it may fairly be inferred that a mistake in a patent whereby the claim is,
made too narrow, is within the equity, if not within the
words, of the statute. Yet no court of equity, considering. all the interests involved,, would ever grant relief in
such a case without, due diligence and promptness on
the part of the patentee in seeking to have the error
corrected. It -is just one of those cases in which laches
and unnecessary delay would be held to be a bar to such
relief. And in extending'the equity of the statute so as
to embrace the case, the courts should not overlook or
disregard the conditions on which alone courts of equity
would take any action, and also on which alone the

291
281

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner of Patents has any power to grant a
reissie."
See, Clements v. Odorless Apparatus Co., (1884) 109
U' S. 641, 649-650; Turner & Seymour Co. v. Dover
Stamping Co., (1884) 111 U. S. 319, 326-327; Coon v.
Wilson, (1885) 113 U. S. 268, 277.
Topliff v. TopliJJ, (1892) supra, note 2, recognizes that
a valid reissue patent - with enlarged claiixis may be
granted, when the original is inoperative, under condition"Second. That due diligence must be exercised in
discovering the mistake in the original patent, and that,
if it be sought for the purpose of enlarging the claim, the
lapse of twi years will ordinarily, though not always, be
treated as evidence of an abandonment of the new matter to the public to the, same extent that a failure by
-the inventor to apply for a -patent withi two years from
the public use dr sale of his invention is regarded by the
statute as conclusive evidence of an abandonment of the
patent to the public.'
In Dunham v. Dennison Manufactdring Co., (1894)
*supra,note 2, infringement was alleged of. a reissue, dated
June 10, 1884, of an original patent issued May 8, 188?
for "a new and improved combined tag and envelope:"
This Court said"The -patent of May 8, 1883, was expressly amd distinctly, both in the specification and in the-claims, limited to an envelope, with an opening at'one end; with a
flap, attached to the envelope at that end, of sufficient
size to cover the whole bf that side of the envelope in which
-

the opening. was; ...

'The, patentee thus gave the

public to understand that an envelope, the flap of which
did not cover its whole length, would not come within his
patent, and might rightfullybe made by any one. After
the defendant had made envelopes with a shrt flap of

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310U.S.

semi-circular shape and covering little more than the opening of the envelope, (which, it is admitted, did not infringe
the plaintiff's patent as originally issued,) the plaintiff obtained a reissue, enlarging the claims, and altering the
specification throughout, so as to include an envelope with
a flap of any size or shape, and to make the invention consist, not, as in the leading words of the description in the
original patent, of 'an envelope with an end flap covering
its side,' but in 'a tag provided with means for attaching
it to the merchandise, and with an envelope or pocket to
receive. a bill or invoice of the merchandise.' The words
of the description in the original patent were'neither technical nor complicated; but they were of the simplest kind,
and their meaning and scope could not-have been misunderstood by any one who read them with the slightest attention, least of all by the patentee. To uphold such a
reissue under such circumstances would be to grant a new
and distinct privilege to the patentee at the expense of
innnocent parties, and would be inconsistent with the
whole course of recent decisions in this court."
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, (1917) supra,note
2, declared a reissue claim was not an enlargement and
held the defendant guilty of violating the patent as originally written.
In Keller v. Adams-Campbell Co., (1924) supra,note 2,
certiorari was dismissed. The Chief Justice pointed out
that the question of intervening rights, while not free from
difficulties, was not before the Court. It decided nothing
presently important.
The opinions reviewed above will suffice to indicate the
progressiye efforts of the court to meet problems incident
to our rapidly expanding patent system. From a small
State Department bureau in 1836, the Patent Office has
expanded until in 1939 over 40,000 patents were grantedin 1838, 515 were granted. Although of immense impor-

SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
281

293

Opinion of the Court.

tance, the system has become exceedingly complex. Questiong relative to reissued patents have long been vexatious
to those immediately concerned with administration of the
patent laws.
Miller v. Brass Company, supra, pointed out that "the

evils which have grown from the practice [reissues] have
assumed large proportions. Patents have been so expanded and idealized, years after their first issue, that
hundreds and thousands of mechanics and manufacturers,
who had just reason to suppose that the field of action was
open, have been obliged to discontinue their employments,
or to pay an enormous tax for continuing them.",
It is now accepted doctrine that "the -claim of a specific device or combination, and an omission to claim other
devices or combinations apparent on the face of the patent, are, in law, a dedication to the public of that which
is not claimed." "This legal effect of the patent cannot
be revoked unless the patentee surrenders it and proves,
that the specification was framed by real inadvertence,
accident, or mistake, . . ." Also, that 'a"reissue with enlarged claims, not applied for within the two years after
the original, -is void in the absence of. extraordinary
exculpating circumstances.
In the case under consideration the patentee might
have included in the application for the original patent,
claims broad enough to embrace petitioner's accused machine, but did not. This "gave the public to understand"
that whatever was not claimed "did not come within his
patent and might rightfully be made by anyone." The
enlarged claims were presented with knowledge of the
accused machine and definite purpose to include it.
Recapture within two years of what a patentee dedicates
to the public through omission is permissible under specified conditions, but not, we think, "at the expense of

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion -of the Court.

310 U. S.

innocent parties." Otherwise, the door is open for gross
injustice to alert inventors and baffling uncertainty will
hinder orderly development of useful arts.
The District Court properly ruled that petitioner had
"acquired intervening rights which in equity plaintiff
[respondent here] might not now disturb."
In Ashldrnd Fire Brick Co. v. General Refractories Co.,
(1928) 27 F. 2d 744, 745-746, the matter of "Intervening
Rights" was lucidly discussed. The opinion states the
cash thus"This is the usual suit for infringement, based upon
reissue patent No. 15,889, August 12, 1924, to Tackett,
for a brick machine. The defense chiefly relied upon in
the court below and here is that, between the date of the
original issue and the application for the broadened reissue, the defendant had built and begun to operate its
machines in a form which was not covered by the original
patent, even though it were by the reissue, and that the
defendant had thus acquired such a right, intervening
with reference to the original and reissue, as to make it
ineqfiitable to enforce against it the later and broader
monopoly."
And-it concluded- "Because the claims of the original patent were limited
as to the form of conveyor, and because after the issue of
the original patent and with knowledge of it and expressly appreciating its limited character, indeed, being
gomerned therein by the advice of patent counsel, the
dWfendant built a noninfringing brick machine, and still
before the reissue application another one, at a substantial expense, and put them into commercial use on a
-large scale by extensively selling their product, and thus
made, them substantially material to its manufacturing
busiress, the defendant thereby acquired at least a right

SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
281

Opinion of the Court.

to continue to use these two machines as if it held a
license therefor under the reissued patent."
We think this conclusion was right and appropriate in
the circumstance presented.
In the instant case the accused machine went into
operation when the owner had no actual knowledge of
the original patent; but that circumstance we think ought
not to defeat the defense based upon intervening rights.
All patents must "be recorded, together with the specifications, in the Patent Office in books to be kept for that
purpose." U. S. C. Title 35, § 39. Constructive notice of
their existence goes thus to all the world. Boyden v.
Burke, (1852) 14 How. 575, 582; Wine Ry. Appliance Co.
v. Enterprise Ry. Equipment Co., (1936) 297 U. S. 387,
393; Walker on Patents, Deller's edition (1937) Vol. 3;
p. 2176. In consequence the owner of the machine here
accused operated it with implied knowledge of the original patent and may justly claim whatever, privileges
would follow actual knowledge.
Grant v. Raymond, supra, speaks disparagingly of one
who having obtained knowledge of an invention from a
patent thereafter appropriates what might have been
claimed but was not. In the different conditions of today
that observation would not be appropriate. We cannot
conclude that one so circiimstanced occupies a position
superior to an honest inventor or user who has acted with
implied but no actual knowledge of a recorded patent.
"The purpose of the statute undoubtedly'was to provide
that kind of relief which courts of equity have always
given in cases of clear accident and mistake in the drawing up of written instruments," and these courts are
always tender of rights claimed by innocent parties. "A
sense of justice and of policy" shelters them.
The possibility of defeating a charge of infringement
by establishing intervening rights is adumbrated in Grant

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

v. Raymond, supra, "The defence when true in fact may
be sufficient in law, notwithstanding the validity of the
new patent"
The challenged judgment must be reversed with a
remand to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
CANTWELL T AL.v. CONNECTICUT;
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO =
SUPREME COURT OF
ERRORS OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 632. Argued March 29, 1940.--Decided May 20, 1940.
1. The fundamental concept of liberty embodied in the Fourteenth.
Amendment embraces the liberties guaranteed by the First Amendment. P. 303.
2. The enactment by a State of any law respecting an establishment
of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof is forbidden by'
th6 Fourteenth Amendment. P. 303.
3. Under the constitutional guaranty, freedom of conscience and of
religious belief is absolute; although freedom to act in the exercise
of religion is subject to regulation for the protection of society.
Such regulation, however, in attaining a permissible end; must
not unduly infringe the proteeted freedom. Pp. 303-304.
4. A state statute which forbids any person to solicit money or
valuables for any alleged religious cause, unless a certificate
theiefor shall first have been procured from a designated official,
who is required to determine whether such. cause is -A religious
-one and who may withhold his approval if he determines that
it is not, is a prdvious restraint upon the free exercise of religion
and a deprivation of liberty without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.. P. 304.
So held as it was applied to persons engaged in distributing
literature purporting to be religious, and soliciting contributions
to be used for the publication of such literature.
A State constitutionally may -by general and non-discriminatory
legislation regulate the time, place and manner of soliciting upon
its streets, and of holding meetings thereon; and may in other
respects safeguard the peace, good order and comfort of the corn-

