OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

268

'Statement of the Case.

310 U. S.

DAMPSKIBSSELSKA BET DANNEBROG, CLAIM-

ANT,

ET

AL.

v. SIGNAL OIL & GAS CO. OF

CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 662. Argued April 1, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

1. Where, by the terms of a charter party, the charterer has the
direction and control of the vessel, and there is no prohibition
against the creation of liens for necessary supplies ordered by
the charterer, one who on the order of the charterer supplies
fuel oil to the vessel is entitled to a maritime lien, even though
the charter requires the charterer to "provide and pay for" fuel.
Construing 'the Act' of June 23, 1910, as amended. Pp. 271, 275.
.Semble, where the charter patty prohibits the creation of a lien
for supplies ordered by the charterer, no lien will attach.
-2. The fact that the supplier had a general contract with the charterer
to supply "the fuel oil requirements of any and all vessels owned,
chartered, or operated" by the latter, held not to defeat the lien,
where such contract did not provide that the oil should be supplied
on the sole credit of the charterer or negative the creation of maritime liens for supplies actually furnished to the vessels in satisfying their requirements. P. 276.
3. The Act of June 23, 1910, as amended, provides that "any person
to whom the management of the vessel at the port of supply is
intrusted" shall be-presumed to have auithority to procure supplies
upon the credit of the vessel. Held that where, apart from mere
navigation, the vessel is placed under the direction and control of the
charterer as the hirer of the vessel, who as such may determine to
what port she shall go and what .she shall carry, subject only to
specified exceptions, then the charterer, in the absence of any
provision to the contrary, is deemed to be intrusted with the
vessel's management, within that provision of the Act. Pp. 277,
279-280.
106 F. 2d 896, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

309 U. S. 644. to review the affirmance of

decrees in admiralty, 25 F. Supp. 594, sustaining maritime
liens.

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
268

269

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Lane Summers, with whom Messrs. W. H. Hayden
and F. T. Merritt were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Glenn J.Fairbrookfor respondent.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question is whether the respondent is entitled to
maritime liens for fuel oil delivered to petitioners' vessels.
In September, 1932. respondent, Signal Oil and Gas
Company. made a contract with, the Anglo Canadian
Shipping Company, Limited, agreeing to sell fuel oil to
any vessel which the Anglo Canadian Company might
own. charter or operate. In May, 1933, the parties modified the contract so as to include the fuel oil requirements
of vessels owned, chartered or operated by W. L. Comyn &
Sons. Later, the respective owners of the two vessels
here in question, the "Stjerneborg ' and the "Brand,"
chartered them to W. L. Comyn & Sons.
The charters were time charters on the so-called "Government form." The owners agreed "to let" and the
charterers "to hire" the vessel "from the time of delivery"
for a specified period, the vessel to be placed 'fat the disposal of the charterers" at such place as the charterers
may direct, being on her delivery ready to receive cargo
and to be employed in carrying merchandist as stated.
The owners agreed to provide and pay for al provisions.
wages and 'shipping and discharging fees of the captain,
officers, engineers, firemen and crew; to 'pay for the insurance of the vessel, and to maintain her in a thoroughly
efficient state in hull, machinery and equipment. The
charterers agreed to "provide, and pay for" coals and fuel
oil, port charges, pilotages, etc., and all other, usual ex-

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1939:
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

penses except as before stated. The charterers were to
pay "for the use and hire' of the vessel a stipulated
amount commencing "on and from the day of her
delivery" and to continue until "the day of her redelivery in like good order and condition, oidinary wear
and tear excepted, to the owners (unless lost) at a safe
port" as designated. It was provided that the captain,
although appointed by the owners, should be "under the
orders and direction of the charterers as regards employment or agency"; and the charterers were to load, stow
and trim the cargo at their expense under the supervision
of the captain. If the charterers should have reason to be
dissatisfied with the conduct of the captain, officers or
engineers, the owners if necessary should make a change
in the appointments. The charterers were allowed to
appoint a supercargo to accompany the vessel and "see
that voyages are prosecuted with the utmost despatch."
It was further provided that nothing in the charter should
be construed as a "demise" and that the owners were to
remain responsible for the navigation of the vessel. The
charters contained no prohibition against the creation of
liens for necessary supplies' ordered by the charterers.
Respondent libeled the vessels for fuel oil supplied to
the vessels respectively on the charterers' order, and the
owners appeared and filed answers alleging that the oil
was furnished upon the charterers' credit and not upon
that of the vessel.
The District Court sustained the liens, 25 Fed. Supp.
594, and the Circuit .Court of Appeals affirmed the decrees.
106 F. 2d 896. Because of an alleged conflict with deci.sions of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit
in The Cratheus,^263 F. 693, and PensacolaShipping Co.
v.'United Stated Shipping Board, 277 F. 889, certiorari
was granted, 309 U. S. 644.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant case followed its decisions in The Portland,273 F. 401, and The

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
268

Opinion of the -Court.

Golden Gate, 52 F. 2d 397. The Golden Gate was a case
of a time charter *which required the charterer to provide
and pay for fuel oil but contained no provision denying
the right of the charterer to bind the ship for necessary
supplies. The court said that in the absence of such a
prohibition the ship was bound-whether the supplies were
ordered by the charterer or by the master. The ruling
was reiterated by the same court in The Luddco, 66 F. 2d.
997, 998. In further support of itsposition, respondent
cites the following cases from other circuits: The Everosa,
C. C. A. 1st, 93 F. 2d 732, 735; The J. W. Hennessy,
C. C. A. 2d, 57 F. 2d 77, 79, 80; The Anna E. Morse,
C. C. A. 3d, 286 F. 794. 798; Munson Inland Water Lines
v. Seidl, C. C. A. 7th, 71 F. 2d 791, 793.
Petitioners rely upon our decisions in The Kate, 164
U. S. 458, 464, and The Valencia, 165 U. S. 264, to the
effect that where the charter party requires the charterer
to provide and pay for supplies, the supplier being
charged with knowledge of the provisions of the'charter
party was not entitled to a maritime lien for supplies furnished to the vessel upon the order of the
charterei:
These decisions, however, were prior to the passage of
the Act of June 23, 1910, 36 Stat. 60.., which governs the
present case. The text of the Act, as amended, is set
forth in the margin.1 Its purpose was to simplify and
The Act of June 23, 1910, 36 Stat. 604, as amended bythe Act of
June 5, 1920, § 30, 41 Stat. 1005, 46 U. S. C. 971-973, provides:
"§ 971." Persons entitled to lien. Any person furnishing repairs,
supplies, towage, use of dry dock or marine railway, or other necessaries, to any vessel, whether foreign or domestic, upon the order of
the owner of such vessel, or of a person authorized by the owner, shall
have a maritime lien on the vessel, which may be enforced by suit in

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

clarify the rules as to maritime liens as to which there
-had been much confusion. The Act did away with the
artificial distinction between repairs, supplies, etc., furnished in home ports and those furnished in foreign ports.
-It did away with the doctrine that when the owner of a
vessel contracted in person for necessaries or was present
in the port when they were ordered, it was presumed that
the material-man did not intend to rely upon the vessel's
credit. It substituted a federal statute for numerous state
statutes purporting to confer liens. Piedmont Coal Co. v.
Seaboard FisheriesCo., 254 U. S. 1, 11.2
In so doing, the statute provided a series of simple and
comprehensive rules. While it was said not to be intended
to change the general principles of the law of maritime
rem, and it shall not be necessary to -allege or prove that credit was
given to the vessel.,
"§ 972. Persons authorized to procure repairs,supplies, and necessaries. The following persons shall be presumed to have authority
from' the owner to procure repairs, supplies, towage, use of dry dock
or marine railway, and other necessaries for the vessel: The managing owner, ship's husband, master, or any person to whom the management of the, vessel at he port of supply is intrusted. No person

tortiously or unlawfully in possession or charge of a vessel shall have
authority to bind the vessel.
"§ 973.

Notice to person furnishing repairs, supplies, and neces-

saries. The officers and agents of a vessel specified in section 972,
shall be taken to include such officers and agents when appointed
by a charterer, by an owner pro bac vice, or by an agreed purchaser
in possession of the vessel; but nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer a lien when the furnisher knew, or by exercise of
reasonable diligence could have ascertained, that because of the terms
of a charter party, agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any other
reason, the person ordering the repairs, supplies, or 'other necessaries
was without authoritY to bind the vessel therefor."
Other provisions, §§ 974 and 975, relate to the waiver of liens and

the superseding of state laws.
'See, also, The Yankee, 233 F. 919, 924; The Oceana, 244 F. 80, 82;
Senate Report, No. 831, 61st Cong., 2d sess.; House Rep6rt, No.
772,'61st Cong., 2d sess.

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
268

273

Opinion of the Court.

liens, it was intended to operate in aid of those who
supply necessaries to ships and it correspondingly restricted the rights of the owners of the vessels. Any
person furnishing repairs, supplies, etc., to a vessel
whether foreign or domestic, "upon the order of the
owner" or "of a person authorized by the owner," is to
have a maritime lien which may be enforced by suit in
rein. It is not necessary to allege or prove that credit
was given to the vessel. The "'managing owner, ship's
husband, master, or any person to whom the management
of the vessel at the port of supply is intrusted." is presumed to have authority to procure the necessaries. The
officers and agents thus specified include those appointed
"by a charterer, by an owner pro hac vice, or by an agreed
purchaser in possession of the vessel." These broad pro.visions are then subjected to the qualification that nothing in the Act should be construed to confer a. lien "when
the furnisher knew, or by exercise of reasonable diligence
could have ascertained, that because of the terms of a
charter party, agreement for sale of the vessel, or for any
other reason, the person ordering the repairs, supplies,
or other necessiuties was withofit authority to bind the
vessel therefor."
Despite the aim thus to provide simple and clear rules,
tlwre has been no little contrariety of opinion in the application of the statute,-well illustrated by the conflicting
decisions to which we have referred with respect to the
existence of maritime liens where supplies have been ordered by a charterer who has agreed with the owner to
provide and pay for them. As, in such.a case, the supplies are furnished on the charterer's order. there is' no
question that the supplier is charged with knowledge of
the provisions of the charter when he either knows them
'Senate Report, No. S31, 61st Cong., 1st sc.-.
The PrcsidentArthur, 279 U. S. 564, 56S.

Marshall & Co. v.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

or by reasonable diligence could have ascertained them.
So far, the principle of The Kate and The Valencia, supra,
is embodied in the statute. But it does not follow that,
in the light of the statute, The Kate and The Valencia
can. still be regarded as authority for the view that the
mere fact that the charterer is bound to provide and pay for
the supplies excludes the supplier from having a maritime lien' when the charter party contains no prohibition
against its creation.
We think that our decision in The South Coast, 251
U. S. 519,1 negatives such a conclusion. That was a case
of a bare-boat charter which provided that the charterer
should pay for all supplies and all other charges and
save the owner harmless from 'all liens. The supplies
were ordered by the master, but, though appointed by the
owner, the master was under the orders of the charterer
and thus 'the master's orders were the charterer's orders.
When the supplies were ordered, representatives of the
owner at the port of supply warned the supplier that the
vessel was under charter and that he' must not furnish
the supplies on the credit of the vessel. If the owner had
power' to prevent the attaching of a lien by this warning,
the owner had done so. But while under the terms of
the charter party it was clearly the duty of the charterer
to provide and pay fbr the supplies-and to save the owner
harmless, this was held not to preclude the creation of a
maritime lien. The Kate and The Valencia were cited
unavailingly. When the charter party was examined to
see if it.prohibited liens it was found that it did not do so;
it recognized the possibility of- liens. It provided that
the owner might retake the vessel in case of the failure
of the charterer to discharge within thirty days any debt
which was a lien upon it and also for a surrender of the
' The facts are more fully set forth in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The South Coast, 247 F. 84.

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
-

268

275

Opinion of the Court.

vessel free of liens upon .the charterer's failure to make
certain payments.
We think that the fair import of our decision-in The
South Coast is that when the charterer has the direction
and control of the vessel and it is his business to provide
necessary supplies, and the charter party does not prohibit
the creation of a maritime lien therefor, the materialman is entitled to furnish the supplies upon the credit,
of the vessel as well as upon that of the charterer and
the lien is not defeated by the fact that the charterer has
promised the owner to pay.
When, however, the charter party, with knowledge of
which the material-man is charged, prohibits the creation of a lien for supplies ordered by the charterer or
the charterer's representative, no lien will attach. This
was decided in United States v. Carver, 260 U. S. 482.
That was a case of vessels owned by the United States.
The charterer, whose representative had ordered the supplies, had agreed that it would "not suffer nor permit
any lien" which might have priority over the title and
interest of the owner. The question was whether a
maritime lien would have arisen against the vessels if
they had been privately owned. The court, quoting the
provision of the Act of 1910 as to the duty of the material-man to make inquiry, said that he was not entitled
"to rest upon presumptions until he is put upon inquiry"; he must inquire. "If by investigation with reasonable diligence the material-man could have found out
that the vessel was under charter, he was chargeable with
notice that there was a charter; if in the same way he
could have found out its terms he was chargeable with
notice of its terms." The court added that there would
have been no difficulty in finding out both. The court
found a difference between the language of the charter
party in the Carver case and that used in The South

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.'

310 U.S

Coast. In the Carver case "the primary -undertaking"
was that "a lien shall not be imposed." The lien was
denied, not because the charterer was bound" to provide
and pay for supplies, but because the charter party prohibited the lien. To the same effect is the decision in the
case of The St. John's. ColonialBeach Co. v. Quemahoning Coal Co., 260 U.-S. 707.
As, in the instant case, the charter parties contained no
provision prohibiting the creationi of a-maritime lien, we
are of the opinion that the mere fact that they required
the charterers to provide and pay for the supplies did not
prevent the liens from attaching.
The argument is pressed that respondent was under a
general contract to supply "the fuel oil requirements of
any' and all vessels owned, chartered, or operated" by
W. L. Comyn & Sons. But this contract did not provide
that, the oil should be supplied on the sole credit of
Comylil as the owner or charterer of the vessels or negative the creation of maritime liens for supplies actually
furnished to the vessels in satisfying their requirements.
The decisions which petitioner cites are not apposite.
In Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., supra,
th' Coal Company had made a contract with a corporation, which owned both steamers and factories, to furnish
such coal as should'be required. The court observed
that the difficulty which confronted the Coal Company
in seeking to enforce a maritime lien did not lie in the
fact that a contract had been made for the supply of
,coal. "A vessel," said the court, "may be liable in ren
for supplies, although the owner can be made liable therefor in personam; since the dealermay rely upon the.
credit of both." So, the court recognized that if in that
case "the coal had been furnished to the several vesses
by the libellant. maritime liens would have arisen and
could have been established under the stat-ate without

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
268

Opinion of the Court.

proof that credit was given to the vessels." The difficulty
which blocked recovery by the Coal Company was "solely
that it did not furnish coal to the vessels." There "was
no understanding when the contract was made, or when
the coal was delivered by the libellant, that any part of
it was for any particular vessel or even for the vessels
then composing the fleet. And it was clearly understood
that the purchasing corporation would apply part of the
coal to a non-maritime use." Id., pp. 10, 11, 13. In the
instant case, the oil was supplied exclusively for the vessels in question, was delivered directly to the vessels and
was so invoiced; and there was nothing in the general
contract to the effect that the supplies were to be furnished upon the exclusive credit of W. L. Comyn & Sons
and not also upon the credit of the vessels.
In the other case relied upon, Marshall & Co. v. The
President Arthur, 279 U. S. 564, the point was that the
maritime lien had been waived by the libellant under an
agreement by which trade acceptances endorsed by designated persons had been received; that "by taking other
and different security, upon which it relied, and which
it still retains, without stipulating for the retention of
the lien, it has waived the lien which-it otherwise would
have had." Id., p. 572. It may be noted that in the
instant case there was a contention that the liens had
been waived by the respondent by entering into a certain creditor's agreement and by accepting certain security. But it appeared that in those transactions the
right to the liens on the vessels had been exprp*y reserved. The court below accordingly ruled that there
had been no waiver and its decisiont in that relation has
not been challenged here.
There remains the contention that, apart from any prohibition of the creation of liens, the vessels could not be
bound for supplies ordered by the charterers because of

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

the nature of the charter parties. There is a plain distinction between a case of a bare-boat charter, where the
charterer mans the vessel, and a case where the charter
party is a mere contract for the carriage of goods. In
the former there is a clear demise; in the latter, the
charterer is in substance only a shipper.' There is an
intermediate class of charters which has given rise to
many questions in various situations. Time charters of
the sort now before us are in this class. The owner provides -the master and crew and undertakes the navigation
of the vessel and to maintain her in an efficient condition.
But the master although appointed by the owner, is
placed "under the orders and direction of the charterers
as regards employment or agency." The owners agree
"to let" the vessel and the charterers "to hire" her "from
the time of delivery" until the date set for "her redelivery." The charterers are to provide and pay for fuel
supplies, port charges, pilotages, etc. and all other expenses except those pertaining to the captain, officers or
crew.
There is thus a distribution of responsibility, and liability or the legal consequences, of particular conduct
would be determined accordingly. While the owners assumed responsibility. for the navigation of the vessels and
their maintenance in an efficient state, we are not concerned with any questions relating to faults in navigation
or failure in maintenance. The mere fact that the owners furnished the master and crew cannot be regarded as
decisive of the question before us. See United States v.
Shea, 152 U. S. 178, 190, 191; United States v. Cornell
Steamboat Co., 267 U. S. 281. Aside from the navigation
of the vessels, they were placed under the control of the
'See Reed v. United States. 11 Wall. 591, 600; Leary v. United
States, 14 Wall. 607, 610; United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178,
189-191; The Barnstable, 181 U. S. 464, 468.

DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET v. OIL CO.
268

-

Opinion of the Court.

charterers and the master and crew were under their directions. The vessels by the terms of the charters were
delivered to the charterers, and where the vessels were
to go and what they were to carry, within the broad
limits described in the charters, were determined by the
charterers.
The question whether under a charter, containing these
or similar provisions, the material-man may have a lien
for supplies furnished on the order of the charterer has
given rise to conflicting views; and no -little confusion
has resulted.
We think that this-conflict may be resolved by having
due regard to the manifest purpose of the governing
statute. The Act says nothing about types of charters.
In speaking of those who shall be presumed to have
authority to procure supplies, the statute expressly includes not only the "ship's husband" and the "master"
but "any person to whom the management of the vessel
at the port of supply is intrusted," and these persons
are to be taken to include such officers and agents "when
appointed by a charterer, by an owner pro hac vice, or
by an agreed purchaser in possession of the vessel." We
think that the purpose of the statute is not properly
served by construing the term "management of the vessel" as referring to her "navigation." Management is a
broader term connoting direction and control for the
purposes for which the vessel is used. Where, as in this
"See, e. g., upholding the lien; The India, 14 F. 476, 16 F. 262;
The Bombay, 38 F. 512, 863; The George Dumois, 68 F. 926; The
Anna E. Morse, 286 F. 794; The A. S. Sherman, 51 F. 2d 782; The
Golden Gate, 52 F. 2d 397; The Everosa, 93 F. 2d 732. See, e. g.,
contra: The Cratheus, 263 F. 693; Pensacola Shipping Co. v. U. S.
Shipping Board, 277 F. 889; The Thords, 290 F. 255; The Ville de
Djibouti, 295 F. 869; The Pajala,7 F..Supp. 618; The Dictator, 18
F. 2d 131. Compare, The J. W. Hennessy, 57 F. 2d 77, 80.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

case, apart from mere navigation, the vessel is placed
under the-direction and control of the charterer as the
hirer of the vessel, who as such may determine to what
port she shall go and what she shall carry, subject only
to specified exceptions, we think the charterer must be
deemed to be intrusted with the vessel's management
for, the purpose of applying the statutory test of authority to obtain. necessary supplies upon the credit, of
the vessel, in the absence of a provision to the contrary.
The origin of the maritime lien is the need of the ship.
Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., supra. The
lien is given -for -supplies which are necessary to keep
the ship going. The material-man when furnishing such
supplies' on the order of -the charterer is charged ,with
knowledge of the terms of the charter party, when he
can ascertain them, but when it appears that. by these
terms the charterer has direction and- control of the vessel and that he is the one to obtain the essential supplies, and that there is no prohibition of the creation of
a maritime lien, the material-man is protected by the
terms of the statute. He furnish6s the supplies on the
order of-the person authorized to obtain them and he is
entitled to rely on the credit of the vessel as well as
upon the credit. of the one who gives the ordet.
We are of the opinion that it would thwart the purpose of the statute to compel the material-man furnishing supplies to the vessel to resolve the ambiguities
which may be found in such charters as those here involved. The statute was intended to afford the materialman a reasonably certain criterion. The owner has a
simple and ready means of protection. All that it is
necessary for him to do, as the material-man in dealing
with the charterer is charged with notice of -the charter,
is to provide therein that the creation of maritime liens
is prohibited. When the owner does not do so, he should
not be heard to complain when it appears that it is the

SONTAG STORES CO. v. NUT CO.
Counsel for Parties.

268

charterer's business to obtain supplies to keep the vessel
on her way and the charter has not prohibited reliance
upon the credit of the vessel.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
SONTAG CHAIN STORES CO., LTD. v. NATIONAL
NUT COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 671.

Argued April 24, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

1. One who, subsequently to the issuance of a patent but prior to
the filing of an application for a reissue patent on broadened claims,
put into use a machine which it is alleged infringes the reissue
patent, though it does not infringe the original patent, held, in the
absence of fraud or bad faith, to have acquired intervening rights
which barred injunctive relief against continued use of the accused
machine. Pp. 282, 293-295.
2. That at the time the accused machine was first put into use the
alleged infringer was without actual knowledge of the original patent,
does not defeat the claim of intervening rights. P. 295.
3. Assumed, but not decided, that (apart from the question of intervening rights) the reissue patent here involved was valid and infringed. P. 285.
107 F. 2d 318, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 645, to review the reversal of a
decree denying an injunction to restrain alleged infringement of a patent.

Mr. Guy A. Gladson, with whom Messrs. Franklin M.
Warden and Arthur D. Welton, Jr. were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Hugh N. Orr, with whom Mr. Charles S. Evans
was on the brief, for respondent.

