16

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

ilig the Act.'0 . Title to a farm6r's property acquired in
"themanner pursued by petitioner cannot limit the power
of the bankruptcy court to afford the protection of and to
enforce this remedialjegislation.
UNITED STATES v. CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

N o. 587.

Argued March 28, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.

i.* Under the Raker Act of December 19, 1913, which granted to the.
City and County of San, Francisco certain lands and rights of way
in the Hetch-Hetchy Valley for use by the City in constructing
and maintaining a means of supplying water for the domestic
purposes of the City and other- public bodies, and in establishing
a system for generation and sale and distribution of electric energy,
-held:
That § 6 prohibits the City from transferring to a public utility
the right to sell electric power produced by the City under the
grant, in addition to forbidding sale of the p6wer itself as a
commodity for resale. P. 20.
Congress clearly intended to require-as a condition of its
grant-sale and distribution, of power exclusively by San Francisco and other municipal agencies directly to consumers in the
belief that consumers would thus be afforded power at cheap rates
in competition with private power companies. P. 26.
2. The City, instead of selling the power produced under the
grant directly to consumers at prices fixed by itself, delivered it
under a contract, for a fixed comrpensati6n, to a public utility
corporation, which; in turn, sold it to consumers in the City
and elsewhere, along with power produced by itself, at the iates
fixed from time to time by the Stite Railroad Commission. Held
that the contract is in violation of the Act, and can not be defended
upon the ground that the .City has a right to sell through the
corporation as its agent. P. 28.
Cf. In fe Price, 99 F. 2d 691, 694.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

Counsel for Parties.

3. The prohibitions of § 6 are not an unconstitutional invasion of
the right of the State of California to regulate distribution of
electricity, and are not mere covenants subject to alleged .equitable
defenses, but are conditions which Congress, in virtue of its power
over the public domain, was authorized to attach to the grant.
P. 2S.
4. In disposing of rights to develop hydroelectric power in the public lands, Congress may impose limitations designed to avoid
monopoly and to bring about a wide-spread distribution of benefits. P. 30.
5. A suit brought by the Attorney General in the name of the
United States pursuant to the mandate of the granting Act, to
enforce its provisions by an injunction is cognizable in equity.
P. 30.
6. In such a suit, the duty of the court to enjoin plain violations
of the Act is not measured by a balancing of equities but by the
policy of the statute. P. 31.
7. A former erroneous administrative construction of § 6 of the
Act (since abandoned) as forbidding no more thmn sale of power
for resale, held ineffectual. P.. 31.
S. The United-States is not estopped by acts of it.- officers in sanctioning an agreement not permitted by law. P. 32.
106 F. 2d 569, reversed.

CERTORMRI, 309 U. S' 642, to review the reversal bf a
decree of injunction commanding the City and County
of San Francisco to cease disposing of its electric power to
a public utility corporation, or in the alternative, to cease
further use of lands and rights granted to it by an Act of
Congress, for generation and transmission of electricity.
Assistant Attorney General Littell, with whom Solicitor
General Biddle, and Messrs. William D. Donnelly, Law-

rence S. Apsey, and FredericL. Kirgis were on the brief,

for the United States.
Messrs. Garret W. McEnerney and John J. O'Toole,

with whom Messrs. Dion R. Holm and Robert M. Searis
were on the brief, for respondent.

1S

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered
Court.

310 U. S.

the opinion of the

By the Raker Act of December 19, 1913,1 Congress
granted the City and County of San Francisco,2 subject to
expi'egs conditions, certain lands and rights-of-way in
the public domain in Yosemite National Park and Stanislaus National Forest.. The Act in terms declared that
this, known as the "Hetch-Hetchy" grant, was intended
for use by the City both ii constructing and maintaining
a means of supplying vater for the domestic purposes
of the City and other public bodies,, and in establishing a
system "for generation and sale and distribution of electric energy."
Upon application of the Secretary of the Ihterior, the
United, States brought this suit 3 in equity charging theCity with disposing of power through the Pacific Gas &
Electric Company, a private utility, -in violation of § 6
of the granting Act. Section 6 provides "That the
grantee [the City] is prohibited from ever selling or
letting to any corporation or individual, except a municipality or a municipal water district or irrigation district, the right to sell or sublet the water or the electric
energy sold or given to it or him by the grantee: Provided, That the rights hdreby granted shall not be sold,
'C. 4, 38 Stat. 242.

-The City and County of San Francisco is a municipal corporation
of California and will be referred to here as the City.
'Section 9 (u) of the Act contains the following: "Provided. how-ever,That the grantee shall at all times comply with and observe on
its part all the conditions specified in this Act, and in the event that
the same are not reasonably complied with and carried out by the
grantee, upon written request of the Secretary of the Interior, it is made
the duty of the Attorney General in the name of the United States to
commence all necessary suits or proceedings in the proper court having
jurisdiction thereof, for the purpose of enforcing and carrying out the
provisions of this Act." 38 Stat. 250.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO..
16

19

Opinion of the Court.

assigned, or transferred to any private person, corporation, or association, and in case of any attempt to so sell,
assign, transfer, or convey, this grant shall revert to the
Government of the United States."
The District Court concluded that the City was violating § 6 by the sale and distribution of Hetch-Hetchy
power through the Pacific Gas & Electric Company, a
private utility. Accordingly, the City was required by
injunction alternatively to discontinue such disposal of
the power or cease further use of the lands and rights
granted it under the Act for generation and transmission
of electric inergy:' The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,' finding that the private utility was merely.acting
as the City's agent in the sale and distribution of HetchHetchy power and holding that § 6 does not prohibit
such sale and distribution of that power by a private
utility.
Here, as in the courts below, the City has defended the
sale and distribution by Pacific Gas & Electric Company
of power originating at Hetch-Hetchy upon the grounds
that such disposition does not violate the prohibitions of
§ 6; that imposition of these prohibitions was not within
the constitutional authority of Congress; and that if § 6
is valid and has been violated, the United- States is not
entitled to injunctive relief in equity.
First. Prohibitions of Section 6.--In the City's view,
§ 6 does not preclude private utilities from all participation in the ultimate sale and distribution of HetchHetchy power. -The City insists that the Section, so construed, does no more than prohibit the City from selling
'23 F Supp. 40. The District Court stated: "In order that the City
may face its problem and comply with its obligations under section 6
of the Raker Act, the court will make it' injunction issuable forthwith, but effective six months from the date of its issue." p. 53.
' 106 F. 2d 569.

OCTOBER

'TERM.

1939.

Opinion of the Court.,

310 U. S.

Hetch-Hetchy power to a private utility for resale, to
consumers and therefore -permits consignment of the
power to the Company, as agent of the City, for sale and
distribution. On the contrary, the Government's position
rests upon the claim'that Pacific Gas & Electric Company
is not 1in reality selling and distributing Hetch-Hetchy
power as consignee and agent but as purchaser for resale;
that the grant to the City was made upon the mandatory
condition that this power be sold solely ard exclusively
by the City directly to consumers and without private'
profit in order to bring it into direct competition with adjacent privately owned utilities; and that § 6 not only
withholds the right of selling for resale but also prohibits
the City "from ever selling or letting" to any private corporation "the right to sell or sublet the . . . electric energy sold or given to it . . . "by the City. The language
of the Act, its background and its history require the
-construction given § 6 by the Government.
:
Fioni its provisions,' it is apparent that the Act conditions the grant upon and contemplates the development.
sale and distribution of electrical power by the City itself
"for municipal and commercial use'" on a scale to be gradually stepped up over a period of years. "The ... grantee
shall develop and use hydroelectric power for the use of
its people and shall . . . sell or supply such power for
irrigation, pumping, or other beneficial use." The "right
to sell or sublet the . . . electric energy" so-generated by
thc City cannot, as a consequence of § 6, be sold or let.
And in case of any attempt to "sell, assign, transfer, or
convey [the rights granted], this grant shall revert to the
Government of the United States."
From the statement of the Congressman responsible for
the application of the prohibitions of § 6 specifically to.
'See § 9 (in).

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

21

Opinion oJ the Court.

electric energy,7 it is clear that as enacted § 6 was understood to prohibit the City from transferring to a private
utility the right to sell Hetch-Hetchy power (the Government's contention) and not merely to 'forbid sale of
power as a commodity for resale, as the City would have
us hold:
"Mr. TAYOR of Colorado. We have got to let the municipality sell to individuals or consumers.
"'Mr.THOMSON of Illinois. Yes; but not the right to
sell some one else the power.
"Mr. TAYwLOR of Colorado. Supposing that San Francisco
sells a certain block, you may say, of its power to Alameda.
Has not Alameda, got the right to resell that to its
inhabitants?
"Mr. THoMsoN of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, in answering
the question of the gentleman from Colorado, I would like
to call his attention to the fact that the subject of sale as
printed' in this section is not the power or the water, but
theU.right to sell the power or the water.
•

"Mr. RAKE. That [tIe word "individual"] really is
intended to cover any person who might attempt to buy
this electric power or right. I think it would cover everybody outside of a corporation, the intention. being to
prevent anybody getting in and getting a right and
sub-letting it." 8
In its Report on the Bill, the House Committee orf
Public Lands stated that the provision of § 6 "acquiesced
in by the grantee, was designed to prevent any monoply
or private corp9ration from hereafter obtaining control
of the water supply of San Francisco."
50 Cong. Rec., Part 4, p. 3906. Mr. Thomson of Illinois was a
member of the committee that considered and reported the Bill.
. Id., p. 3999.
'H. R. No. 41, 63rd Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

22

Opinion of the Couirt.

310 U. S.

From the congressional debates on the passage of the
Raker Act can be read 'a, common understanding both
on the part of sponsors of the Bill and its opponents
that the grant was to be so conditioned as to require
municipal performance of the function of supplying
Hetch-Hetchy water and electric power directly to the
ultimate consumers, and to prohibit sale or distribution
of that power and water by any private corporation or
individual." On the floor of the House, the following
took place between the Bill's author and other Representatives:
"Mr. SUMNERS. Does San Francisco own its own lighting plant now?
"Mr. KAHN. No; it does not.

"Nvlr.

RAKER.

I understand it does not.-

"Mr. KAHN.. It does not own its own water supply.
Its present water supply is furnished by a private
company.
"Mr. RAKER. The Spring Valley Water System.
"Mr. SUMNERs. Is it the purpose of this bill to have
San Francisco supply electric power and water to its own
people?
"Mr. RAKER. Yes
"Mr. SuMNERs. Or to supply these corporations, which
will in turn, supply the people? ,
"Mr. RAKER. Under this bill it is to supply its own
inhabitants first. ... "I
These views were in accord with the recommendation
of the then Secretary of the Interior, as set out in the
RepQrt of the Public Lands Committee of the House:
"Reference

to congressional debates may be made to establish a

common agreement upon the general purpose of an Act. Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 50; Federal Trade Commission
v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 650; Humphrey's Executor v. United
States, 295 U. S. 602, 625.
".50 Cong. Rec., Part 4, p. 3905.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

Opinion of the Court.

"I think that it is very proper that the Federal Government should use whatever power it has over the public
lands, over the lparks, and over the forests, to compel the
fullest use of these waters, and indirectly to require
through its power to make conditions, the lowest possible
rate for consumers." 12
The theme-of an intent to require public utilization
of Hetch-Hetchy power independently of private utilities-recurred at a later stage of the debate in the
House:
"Mr. GRAY...
"As I understand the bill, it-provides for the furnishing of water, and also for power for commercial
use....
"... if these works here are to be contructed to serve
the baseness of commercialism, it is the vilest of all
vandalism. My suggestion here to you is tp strike out
of this bill all the commercial profit ...
"Mr. KENT [a Member of the California delegation
and a supporter of the measure]. Mr. Chairman, I
should like to suggest to the gentleman from Indiana
[Mr. GRAY] that this bill is strictly drawn in the public
interest, that there is no possibility of selfish gain, and
that no corporation or individual can obtain any benefit
whatsoever from this bill. It is for the benefit of the
people of California." 13
In the Senate, Senator Thomas, a member of the Committee reporting the Bill, said:
%...San
Francisco needs electric power, and
California needs development in electric power just as
much as she needs ownership in water,.
Housw6 Reports, Vol. 1, Nos. 17-92, 63rd Cong., 1st Sess., 1913,
p. 25.
50 Cong. Rec., Part 4, p. 3991. See also 69 Cong. Rec., Part 9,
pp. 9,39 et seq.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
.Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

She is anxious to extend her spheres of municipal usefulness, but she is in the grip of a 'power
monopoly as well as that of the Spring Valley Co. ... This scheme appeals to me, Mr. President, so
far as the power is concerned, because the city of San
Francisco as a municipality will be the owner of it. the
manufacturer, the distributor 'of it." 14
And the words of Senator Norris, also a Member of
the reporting Committee and a leading sponsor .of the
Bill, on th day of its final passage through the Senate,
illuminate just what the Raker Act was intended to
accomplish:
I said that I was in favor of this bill to a great
extent for the reason that it developed this power. This
power will come into competition with the various waterpower companies of California; and there are lots of them
there.
".... this proposition is to harness that power and. to
put it to public use not to give it to a- private corporation....
"Here is an instance where we are going to give it directly to the people, if we pass this -bill. It is going to
come into competition with power companies and corporations that have, or will have, if this bill is defeated,
almost a monopoly not only in San Francisco but throughout. the greater portion of California.
"These make in all, as I have counted them, 18 corporations controlling the power in the vicinity of San
Francisco that are under the control of this one corporation. [Pacific Gas & Electric. Company.]
...
When you sum them all up you will find that
they own practically all of the hydroelectric power of
the State .of California,' and this bill, if passed, will bring
"51 Cong. Ree.. Part 1. pp..126, 136.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

Opinion of the Court.

into competition with them one of the greatest units for
the development of power that has ever been developed
in the history of the world. It means competition.
". .. Conservation does not mean dealing out these
resources to private capital for gain. It is not necessary
to accuse those corporations of doing any wrong; but
here will be an instance where the cheapest power on
earth will be developed and where it will be sold at
cost."

'.

Opponents of the Bill themselves recognized that its
regulatory conditions were designed to insure distribution
of power from Hetch-Hetchy through a municipal system in San Francisco. Before final passage in the Senate,
opposition had practically narrowed down to the power
provisions of the measure," and these provisions contemplated a. publicly owned and operated power system.'
51 Cong. Rec., Part 1, pp. 343, 344, 347. Senator Pittman,. one
of the Bill's sponsors and a Member of the reporting Committee, stated
that the Bill provided "absolutely that neither this water nor this
power can ever fall into the hands of a monopoly." 50 Cong. Rec.,
Part 6, p. 5473.
"'See, e. g., views of Senator Smoot, who opposed the measure:
I was opposed to the regulations that were put in this bill, and
that is what I was opposed to more than any other thing. I wanted
the question of regulations taken out of the controversy and the bill
reported to the Senate without those regulations in it.
"Mr. President, I do not think there ought to be any misunderstanding about this matter. The Senator himself, I think, will admit
that the principal object of this bill is to provide for the creation of
power, . . !"
..
I will, moreover, say that it is my opinion that the reason
San Francisco w-ants this particular dam site is for the power that
she thinks can be developed cheaper than from any other surcP'e,'and
at the same time get a large supply of water. That is my personal
opinion." 51 Cong. Rec., Part 1, pp. 304, 314, 360.
'"The people who ride on street cars, the people who use electric
lights, the people who are now using gas, those who eventually will

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of The'Court.

310 U. S.

Immediately before the vote in the Senate, Senator McCumber, opposed to the power provisions of § 6, offered a
sweeping amendment which Would have omitted that
section and all other provisions relating to the generation,
sale and distribution of Hetch-H1tchy power." But his
amendment was defeated. 0 And despite this articulate
-opposition to the policy embodied in its power features,
the Act was passed.
To limit the prohibitions of § 6 of the Act narrowly to
sales of power for resale without more, as the City asks,
would permit evasion and frustration of the purpose of
the lawmakers. Congress clearly intended to requireas a condition of its grant-sale and distribution of HetchHetchy power exclusively by San Francisco and municipal
agencies directly to consumers in the belief that consumers would thus be afforded power at cheap rates in
competition with private power companies. particularly
Pacific Gas & Electric Company. It is not the office of
the "courts to pass upon the justification for that belief
or the efficacy of the measures chosen for putting it into
effect. Selection of the emphatically expressed purpose
embodied in this Act was the appropriate business of the
legislative body.
use coal for purposes of heat, and those who use water for washing
purposes will all receive all the benefit there is in this legislation without -any rake-off by any corporation or monopoly." Senator Norris,
51 Cong. Rec., Part 1, p. 347.
' Senator Clark, of Wyoming, also opposed to the power provision
of the Bill, said with reference to Senator McCumber's amendment:
.. Th6e Senator from North Dakota [Mr. McCumberl has prepared an Amendment to the bill which accomplishes all the purposes
which the proponents of the bill claim are desired, leaving oui the
objectionable features, which have nothing whatever to do with the
water supply of the city of San Francisco." 51 Cong. Rec., Part 1, p
184.
"Id.. pp. 3&3, 384, 385.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

Opinion of the Court.

The admitted facts shown by this record required the
District Court to find-as it did-that the City was violating § 6 in permitting sale and distribution of HetchHetchy power by the Pacific Gas & Electric Company.
Now, as it has been doing since contracting with the City
in 1925, the Company sells and distributes that power as
follows:
Power generated in the City's plant is transmitted to
the Company at Newark, about thirty-five miles from
San Francisco. There the power is delivered to the Company's sub-station and thereafter is under the Company's
complete control. The Company distributes and sells
this power to its customers in San Francisco and elsewhere
exactly as it handles other power which it generates, buys
or owns. Consumers of the power .are billed by and pay
the Company. The City buys Hetch-Hetchy power from
the Company exactly as do other consumers. The City
receives monthly payments from the Company on a fixed
basis set out in the contract. The price received by the
City has remained constant from 1925 to date although
rates to the consumers have varied in the interim. In
the event of the refusal, failure or inability of the Company to take the available output of the City's plant in
accordance with the agreement, he amount of energy
which the City could have delivered is the basis of making the monthly payment., and the Company must pay
for power delivered to it whether actually disposed of
by resale or not. The rate paid by consumers for the
Hetch-Hetchy power is not fixed by the City, as it could
be under the Constitution of California, "0but -is fixed
by the State Railroad Commission just as the price of
" Under Art. XII, § 23 of the California Constitution municipalities
are exempt from rate regulation by the State Commission. See
'Pasadena v. Railroad Commission, 183 Cal. 526; 192 P. 25; Water
Users Assn. v. R2ilroad Commission, 18 Cal. 437; 205 P. 682.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinioi Of the Court.

310 U. S.

all other power sold by the Pacific Gas & Electric Company in. California. is fixed.
Thus, in brief, the City does not 'itself distribute and
sell the power directly to consumers; it has not provided
competition withthe private poweFcompany; and it has
transferred the right 'to sell and distribute the-power to
a private power company in violation of the express
prohibition of § 6 of the Act.
Terminology of consignment of power, rather than of
transfer by sale, and verbal description of the power Company as the City's, agent or consignee, are not sufficient
to take the actions of the parties under the contract out of
§ 6. Congress, in effect trustee of public lands for all the
people, has by this Act sought to protect and control the
disposition of a section of the public 'domain. The City
has in fact followed a course of conduct which Congress,
by § 6, has forbidden. Mere words and ingenuity of
contractual expression, whatever their effect between the
parties,'cannot by description make permissible a course
of conduct forbidden by law. When we lbok behind the
word description of the arrangement between the City
and the power Company to what was actually done, we
see thit the City has-contrary to' the terms of § 6--abdicated its control over the sale and ultimate distribution
of Hetch-Hetchy power. There remain only the determinations whether the prohibitions of § 6 are constitutional and can be enforced in equity.
Second. The prohibitions of §,6 are challenged by the
City as an unconstitutional invasion of the rights of the
State of California on the -round that they attempt to
regulate the manner in which electricity shall be disposed
of in San Francisco. And the City therefore insists that
these prohibitions must be considered only as covenal.ts
in a contract between the City and the United States.
Upon this premise, the City has argued here, as it did in

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO16

Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Alpeals, that alleged equitable defenses
render the covenants unenforceable.
When the Raker Bill was befoie Congress, theCity filed
with the Public Lands Committee of the House a brief
-and argument in, upport of the Bill. Citing authorities,
including this Court's opinions, and legislative precedents,
the City submitted to Congress that as grantee it would
be bound by and as grantor Congress was empowered to
impose "the conditions set forth in the Hetch-Hetchy
bill." 21 After passage of the Bill the City accepted the
grant by formal ordinance, assented to all the conditions
contained in the grant, constructed the required power and
water facilities, and up to date has utilized the rights, privileges and benefits granted by Congress. Now, the City
seeks to retain the benefits of the Act while attacking the
constitutionality of one of its important conditions. Article 4, § 3, Cl. 2 of the Constitution provides that
"The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make
all needful Rules and Regulations respecting 1he Territory
and other Property belonging to the United States." The
power over the public land thus entrusted to Congress is
without limitations.": "And it is not for the courts to say
how that trust shall be administered. That is for Con- H. R. No. 41, 63rd Cong., 1st Sess., p. 41.

Similar views were

entertained in Congress upon the effect of the conditions. See, e. g.,
Senator Walsh of Montana: "We are making a grant of rights in
the public lands to the city of San Francisco, and we may impose
just exactly such conditions as*we see fit, and San Francisco can take
the grant with all those conditions or it can let it alone." 51 Cong.
Rea., Part 1, p. 69.
'Cf. Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415, 421; Grand Rapids. &
IndianaRy. Co. v. Osborn, 193 U. S.' 17, 29; Wall v. Parrot Silver &
Copper Co., 244 U. S. 407, 411; St. Louis 0O. v. Prendergast Co.,
260 U.'S. 469, 473; "BoothFisheriesv. IndustrialCommission, 271 U. S.
208, 211.
United States v. Gratiot, 14 Pet. 526, 537.

"'

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

gress to-determine." 1' Thus, Congress may constitutionally limit the disposition of the public domain to a manner
consistent with its views of public policy. And the policy
to govern disposal of rights to develop hydroelectric power
in such public lands may, if Congress chooses, be one designed to avoid monopoly and to bring about a wide-spread
distribution of benefits. The statutory requirement that
Hetch-Hetchy power be publicly distributed does not represent an exercise of a general control over public policy
in a State but instead only an exercise of the complete
power which Congress has over particular public property
entrusted to it."5
Third. Finally, on the basis of numerous objections to
the District Court's judgment, assigned as errors in the
-court below and pressed here, the City denies the Government's right-upon a balancing of equities--to relief
by injunction even if the present disposition of HetchHetchy power be in violation of the Act.
However, after consideration of all these objections, we
dre satisfied that this case does not call for a balancing of
equities or for tht invocation of the generalities of judicial
maxims in order to determine whether an injunction
should have issued. The City is availing itself of valuable rights and privileges granted by the Government and
yet persists in violating the very conditions upon which
those benefits were granted. Congress -provided "That
the grantee [City] shall at all times comply with and
observe on its part all the conditions specified in this Act,
and in the event that the same are not reasonably complied with and carried out by the grantee, upon written
request of the Secretary of the Interior, it is-made the
duty of the Attorney General in the name of the United
'Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523, 537.
Cf. Ellis v.'United States, 206 U. S. 246, 256; see Ruddy v. Rossi,
248 U. S. 104.

U. S. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
16

Opinion of the Court.

States to conmnence all necessary suits "or proceedings in
the proper court having jurisdiction thereof, for the purpose of enforcing and carrying out the provisions of this
Act." Pursuant to this legislative mandate, the present
suit was instituted to enforce covenants exacted from a
grantee of rights in the public domain by a Congress
sympathetic with the local needs of San Francisco but also
jealous of its own'responsibility to dispose of such rights
in a manner deemed by it most likely to render their benefits widespread. The equitable doctrines relied on do
not militate against the capacity of a court of equity as
a proper forum in which to make a declared policy of Congress effective. Injunction to prohibit continued use-in
violation of that policy-of property granted by the
United States, and to enforce the grantee's covenants, is
both appropriate and necessary."
A substantial part of the City's argument rests upon its
claim that the Department of'the Interior in the period
from 1913 to 1937 construed § 6 to forbid no more than
sale of power for resale. We are asked to accept these
administrative interpretations. And in addition the
Qity suggests that conduct of the Department, of which
these interpretations were a part, is sufficient to create an
estoppel against the Government. Whether the Department at any time ever did more than merely to tolerate sale and distribution of Hetch-Hetchy power by the
Company as a temporary expedient is doubtful. Certain
it is. however, that in 1935 the Secretary of the Interior
declared the City's disposition of the power through the
Company to be a violation of § 6, demanded discontinuance of this violation without success and thereafter
instigated this proceeding. We *cannot accept the contention that administrative, rulings-such as those here
" Cf. Oregon & California R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 393,
1.36, 4.38.

,-

32'.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939,
Syllabus.

310 U. S.

relied on-can thwart the plain purpose-of a valid law.
As to estoppel, it is enough to repeat that " ... the
United States is neither bound nor estopped by.acts of its
officers or agents inentering into an arrangement or agreement to do or cause to. be done what. the law does not
sanction or permit." 27
The judgment 'of the Circuit Court is reversed. - The
,judgment of the District Court is-affirmed and we remand the case to it.."
" Revensed.
MR. JUSTICE- MOREiNoLis is of the opinion that the
judgment 6f the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
_
_
_
_
affirmed.
VEIX v. SIXTH WARD BUILDING & LOAN ASSO,
CIATION OF NEWARK
-APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 567. Argued March 6, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.
1. On-appeal under -Jud. Code § 237 (a) .from a judgment of a
state court sustaining'lhe constituti6nality of a. state statute, this
-Court does not consider the application of lafer amendatory
statutes which were not considered by the state court in its

opinion. P. 36.
2. For the sake of safeguarding the solvency of building and loan
associations in the public interest, a state, legislature may, independently of emergency and consistently with the contract clause
of the Constitution, restrict the. .ights of certificate holders, ex- iting under statutory regulations in force when they acquired
their certificates, to withdraw -or recover -by,suit the amounts of
* their certificates. P. 38.
3. When the plaintiff purchased. his certificates, the, statutes of .New
Jersey permitted him to withdraw up6n written 'notice and provided that *withdrawals should be paid in the order. in which
notices were received, at least one-half of the receipts in -any
Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 409.

