PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL'CO.
100

Syllabus.

ing information on matters of public coicern. Stromberg
v. California,283 U. S. 359. For the reasons set. forth in
our opinion in Thornhill v. Alabama, supra, publicizing
the facts of a labor dispute in a peaceful way through
appropriate means, whether by pamphlet, by word of
mouth or by banner, must now- be regarded as withinthat
liberty of communication .which is secured to every person by the Fourteenth Amendment against abridgment
by a State.
The power and duty of the State to take adequate steps
to preserve the peace and protect the privacy, the lives,
and the property of its residents cannot be doubted.
But the ordinance in question here abridges liberty of
discussion under circumstances presenting no clear and

present danger of substantive evils within the allowable
area of state control.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYINOLDS is of opinion
ment below should be affirmed.

that the judg-

PERKINS. SECRETARY OF LABOR, ET
LUKENS STEEL CO. ET AL.

AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 593.

Argued April 3, 1940.-Decided April 29, 1940.

The Publie Contract., Act of June 30, 1936, requires that all contrtcts with the United States for the manufacture or furnishing

of materials (in amounts exceeding S10,000) shall include a -tipulation that all persons employed by the contractor in the manifacture or furnishing of such materials will be paid not less than
the prevailing minimum wages "as determined by the Secretary
of Labor... for persons employed ... in the particular or similar
industries... in the locality." Producers of iron and steel sought
to enjoin the Secretary of Labor, and other officials and agents
authorized to make purchases for the Government, from con-

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

310 U. S.

tinuing in effect a wage determination made by the Secretary
for that industry. Complainants asserted that the construction
given by the Secretary to the term "locality" was arbitrary,
capricious, and unauthorized by law; and that if in order to bid
on Government contracts they must abide by the wage determination thus-made, they would sufferirreparable loss and damage,
for which there-was no.plain, adequate and complete remedy at
law. Held, that the complainants were without standing to
maintain the suit. P. 125.
1. The bill failed to show that any legal rights of the complainants were invaded or threatened. P. 125.
2. In the absence of statute, damage resulting from action by
the Government which does not invade any recognized legal right
is irremediable. P. 125.
3. That the Secretary of Labor is charged with an erroneous
"interpretation of the term "locality" in making the wage determination, is no basis for'the suit. P. 125.
4. Complainants are not entitled to vindicate, any general interest which the public may have in the Secretary's construction
or administration of the Act. P. 125.
5. Neither R. S. § 3709, requiring advertising for proposals in
respect of Government purchases and contracts, nor the Public
Contracts Act itself, affords any basis for the suit. P. 126.
6. The Act does not provide for judicial review of wage determinations. P. 128.
7. The Act vests-no right in prospective biddefs. P. 127.
8. Congress has not by the Act exercised any regulatory power
over private business or employment; and cases ihvolving governmental regulation of private business are distinguishable. P. 128.
9. The defendants have not tortiously invaded private rights.
P. 129.
10. Co'mplainants vqre not entitled to a declaratory judgment.
P. 132.
11' The couclusion that the complainants lack standing to sue
is based upon principles implicit in the constitutional division of
authority in our system of Government and the impropriety of
judicial interpretations of law at the instance of those who show
no more than a possible injury to the public. P. 132.
70 App. D. C. 354; 107 F. 2d 627, reversed.
-

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 643, to review the reversal of an
order of the District Court dismissing a bill in equity.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

Aigument for Respondents.

Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Assistant Attorney General Shea and Messrs. Telford Taylor, Paul
A. Sweeney, Warner W. Gardner, Gerard D. Reilly, and
David Ziskinid were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Win. Clarke Mason, with whom Messrs. 0. Max
Gardner, Frederick H. Knight, Harold F. McGuire, and
Roberts B. Thomas were on the brief, for- respondents.
Respondents' right to bid and negotiate for government contracts and to conduct their business relations
with the Government free from illegal interference has
been unlawfully invaded, and is further threatened, by
the unlawful action of petitioners. They have standing
to sue to protect such right and such business relations.
The right asserted is subject to conditions imposed or
authorized by Congress; but not to unlawful interference by third parties, including public officers acting outside the scope of their authority.
Every person has the right to conduct a legitimate
business and to seek to sell the products or services of
that business, free from unjustifiable interference, restraint or coercion by others. The law has sedulouslyprotected that right for centuries.
The Government has been a customer for.many years
of all respondents save one, and, at the date of institution of suit, was not only a party to contracts with several, but a prospective customer of all.
The right asserteied by respondents is recognized by R. S.
§ 3709. The Public Contracts Act emphasizes the implications of R. S. § 3709. By that Act, Congress so
preempted the field of wage provisions in government
supply contracts as clearly to prohibit officers from inserting in 'such contracts any wage provisions unauthorized by the Act.
Respondents do not assert the right to government
contract if lowest responsible bidders. They do assert

116

OCTOBER TERM. 1939. "
Opinion of the Court.

310"U. S.

the right to bid without being required to agree that they
will cohnply with the determination.
Whether the determination be reviewable under §
5 of
the Act or on general equitable principles, the court may
determine whether petitioners are exceeding their statutory authority in attempting to .enforce the determination
against respondents and whether the determination is
arbitrary and capricious.
It is immaterial whether the acts of petitioners involve
"regulatory" or "non-regulatory" functions, since in
either case the suit isl not one against the United States.
In a suit for injunctive relief to, prevent unlawful interference with business relations or prospective custoiers, it has never been supposed that the plaintiff
must show of a certainty that, except for the unlawful
interference, the business relations would ripen into
profitable contracts or the prospective customers would
become certain purchasers at profitable prices. It is sufficient that the plaintiff show a reasonable probability of
irreparable injury from the unlawful interference.
. The court below correcly held that respondents are
entitled to a declaratory judgment declaring the invalidity
of the determination.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
N exeri- of its autl,'rity to. determine conditions
under which purchases of Government supplies shall be
made, Congress passed the Public Contracts Act of June
30, 1936. By.virtue of that Act, sellers must agree to
pay employees engaged in producing goods so purchased
"not less than the minimum wages as determined by the
Secretary of Labor to be the prevailing minimum wages
for persons employed on similar work or in the particular
'49 Stai. 2036.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

Opinion of the Court.

or similar industries or groups of industries currently
operating in the locality in which.. .. the supplies
. . . are to be manufactured or furnished under said contract." The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has held that the Secretary erroneously construed the
term "locality" to include a larger geographical area than
the Act contemplates, and has ordered six Members of the
Cabinet including the Secretary of Labor, the Director
of Procurement and all other officials responsible for purchases necessary in the operation of the Federal Government, not to abide by or give effect to the wage determination made by the Secretary for the iron and steel
industry either as to the complaining companies or any
others. In this vital industry, by action of the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia, the Act has been
suspended and inoperative for more than a year.
We must, therefore, decide whether a federal court,.
upon complaint of inidividual iron and steel manufacturers, may restrain the Secretary and officials who do the
Government's purchasing from carrying out an administrative wage determination by the Secretary, not merely
as applied to parties before the Court, but as to all other
manufacturers in this entire nation-wide industry. Involving, as it does, .the marking of boundaries of permissible judicial inquiry into administrative and executive
responsibilities, this problem can best be understood
against the background of what took place before the
Court of Appeals for the District acted:
July 11, 1938, all the iron and steel companies in the
United States were given notice that the Secretary contemplated proceedings for determining the minimum prevailing wage for their industry. On the 25th and 26th
of that month, hearings were had before the Public Contracts Board also functioning under the Act. Many companies, and all of those involved here, were represented
in the hearings. Companies from the entire United

,OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

States filed briefs and submitted information and suggestions, and these producers who are parties here had
-notice of and actively participated in the various stages
of -the proceedings. After the hearing, time for filing
of: briefs was allowed' Following investigation of testimony, exhibits, letters, telegrams, briefs, data from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, and arguments of representatives of .both labor and industry itself, the Board, October
27, 1938, made its findings of fact, conclusions and recommendations: (a), Accepting recommendations of industry
and labor, the ,Board adopted-with minor exceptions-the definition of the -steel industry previously in effect
under the National Industrial Recovery Act; (b), "the
base rates paid.t6the workers classified as common la-borers" were utilized as, a basis for finding the minimum
wage prevailing in the industry and a common laborer
was defined as "one who performs physical or manual
labor of a general character and simple nature, requiring
no 'special training, judgment nor skill"; (c), the view
that municipalities be treated as the geographical limit of
a "locality" and that different minimum prevailing wage
standards be adopted for small as distinguished from
larger companies, was rejected. The Board pointed out
that "the main channels of trade in the industry take
their course far beyond the confines of local producing
areas"; that "conventional measurement of miles on the
map to outline the marketing areas of the iron and steel
producers" was unsuitable; that "geographic location does
not limit the efforts of iron and steel manufacturers to
secure Government business"; that "the workers being
paid wages below the base rates are employed in large,
medium and small size companies and in plants located in
all parts of the country"; and that in fixing a "locality"
all these factors as well as geographic and economic considerations were relevant.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

Opinion of the Court.

The majority of the Board suggested two localities, one
for the Southern States and another for the remainder of
the steel producing States. One member disagreed and
insisted upon four localities throughout the nation, but
noted that "the Board is agreed on all the essential facts
before it in the case." He recognized that "the law . . .
permits the division of the country into localities for the
purpose of determining minimum wages. No rule is laid
down to define the extent of any localities . . . A too
minute concept of locality would obvi6usly -nullify the
law, for each plant must necessarily occupy a different
locale or site from every other. To reduce the interpretation of locality to its most minute point would be to find
a minimum wage prevailing in each plant . . . When
we depart from this interpretation we are immediately
thrown upon judgment . ..
Obviously we must look for
wage patterns or uniformities. . . . Again judgment must
be relied upon for the answer." Excepting to the Board's
recommendations, the companies now before this Court
urged that the Secretary make a finding of minimum-prevailing wages with "locality" given the connotation of a
subdivision of the respective States as originally provided
in the Bacon-Davis Act. 2
On December 20, 1938, the Assistant Secretary of Labor,
acting for the Secretary. heard arguments and received
briefs both from industry and labor organizations. He did
not adopt the recommendations of the Board in full, but
instead divided the industry of the entire country into six
"localities," proceeding, however, upon the view that to
construe "locality" to mean small political divisions of
the States, as the Bacon-Davis Act had done in express
terms, would render "effective administration of the
Act . . . almost impossible." It was pointed out that
246 Stat. 1494.

OCTOBER TERMA.

1939.

Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

"this narrowly restricted. construction of the word 'locality' . . . is contrary to the. administrative construction
consistently adhered to by the Secretary of Labor in the
administration of the Act," and that while Congress had
,closely followed the language of the Davis-Bacon Act in\
some respects, it had "arefully avoided the use of the
more narrowly-restrictive language of 'city, town, village
or other civil subdivision.' "' In the'twenty-two preceding
wage determinations under this Act the Secretary's administrative construction of the term had been-with a
sole xceptioh-that of geographic areas no smaller than
those determined for the steel industry.' The determination in question was made January 16, 1939, but was not
made operative until March 1, 19 39, "in order that industry may make necessary readjustments to comply with
the decision."
In their bill for an injunction and a declaratory judgment, these seven producers of iron and steel (respondents here) sought to enjoin as individuals and in their
official capacities, the Secretaries of the Labor, Treasury,
War, Navy, and Interior Departments, the Postmaster
General, the Director of Procurement of the Treasury
Department, the Assistant Secretary of Labor, and the
Administrator of the Division. of Public Contracts of
the Department of Labor and their "officers, agents, .assistants, employees, representatives and attorneys, and
any one associated with or acting in concert or participation with them, or any of them, and their successors
in office and each of them, and their officers," etc. The
seven companies named as complainants by the bill did
not merely pray relief for themselves against the Secretary's wage determination but insisted that all these
'2 Fed. Reg. 233, 1333, 1335, 1336, 1337, 1338, 1339, 2960, 2976;
3 Fed. Reg. 64, 224; 257, 889, 161.3, 895, 901, 1612, 1153, 2371, 2370.
2537, 3043; 4 Fed. Re,&. 4005.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113 -

Opinion of the Court.

Government officials be restrained from requiring the
statutory stipulation as to minimum wages in contracts
with any other steel and iron manufacturers throughout
the United States.
The District Court declined to interfere so sweepingly
with the administration of the Act, even in the temporary
restraining order which it granted. Its order ran only
against the Secretaries of Labor and the Navy, and spe-cifically limited its benefits to but three of the complaining companies. Recitals in the order indicate that only
the Secretary of the -Navy had actually solicited bids
and that only those three companies were "desirous of
bidding." After hearing, this order was dissolved and
the Court granted a motion to dismiss the complaint for
'lack of jurisdiction, inadequacy of the complaint. lack
of standing to sue, and because the suit was one against
the United-states without its consent.4 A stay pending
appeal was denied by the District Court, but the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Justice Edgerton
dissenting, by temporary injunction granted the sweeping
prayer that all the Government officials and agents designated in the bill be restrained from continuing in effect
the Determination made by the Secretary of Labor. By
motion for reargument, the restrained officials, represented
by attorneys of the Government, asked that the injunction be clarified so as to be "restricted to enjoining-. nforcement of the Determination against parties to this
proceeding . . . and . . .not be extended to other bidders, not parties to this action, and who, for all that
appears, may desire to abide by the Determination." In
the same motion, the Government asked that employees
who might be irreparably injured be protected by "a bondor other security to pay the minimum wages if the appel'The District Court's judgment was rendered wirhour opinion.

-

-:

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

lants do not eventually succeed in this case." - The record
discloses no action by the Court of Appeals on this motion
or on a subsequent motion to dissolve the temporary
injunction.' But the temporary injunction, rendering the
Act. wholly inoperative as to the iron and steel industry
was kept in effect and, reversing the District Court, the
Court of Appeals, Justice Edgerton again dissenting, remanded with instructions that relief as prayed in the bill
be granted."
'Sections of the Public Contracts Act provide that "breach or
violation of any of the representations and stipulations in any contract for the purposes set. forth . . . shall render the party responsible
therefor liable to the United States of America for liquidated damages,
in addition to damages for any other breach of such contract, . . . a
sum equal to the amount of any deductions, rebates, refunds, or underpayment of wages due to any -employee engaged in the performance
of such contract; . . ., Any sums of money due to the United States
of America by reason of any violation of any of the representations
and stipulations of said contract set forth in Section 1 hereof may
be withheld from any amQunts due on any such contracts or may be
recovered in suits brought in the name of the United States of America
by the Attorney General thereof. All sums wiihheld or recovered as
deductions, rebates, refunds, or underpayments of wages shall be held'
in a special deposit account and shall be paid, on order of the Secretary
of Labor, directly to the employees who have been paid less than
minimum rates of pay as set forth in such contract.- and on whose
account such sums were withheld or recovered; . . ."
'The -Government's motion to clarify and restrict the temporary
injunction and for security was filed March 29, 1939; the motioi to
dissolve the temporary injufiction was filed April 13, 1939. No specific
consideration of these motions by the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia is disclosed in the record. August 4, 1939, after argument on the merits, that Court of Appeals, per curiam, Justice
Edgerton dissenting, announced that the temporary injunction would
be kept in effect, that the judgment of the District Court would be
reversed and that the grounds for enjoining the administration of the
Act would be set. out in an opinion "to be filed shortly." The opinion
of the Court of Appeals came down October 3, 1939; Justice Edgerton
filed a separate opinion in dissent.
107 F. 2d 627.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

Opinion of the Court.

In our judgment the action of the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia goes beyond any controversy that
might have existed between the complaining companies
and the Government officials. The benefits of its injunction, and of that ordered by it, were not limited to the
potential bidders in the "locality," however construed, in
wvhich the respondents do business. All Government officials with duties to perform under the Public Contracts
Act have been restrained from applying the wage determination of the Secretary to bidders throughout the Nation who were not parties to any proceeding, who were not
before the court and who had sought no relief.
As a result of this judicial action, federal officials had
no feasible alternative except to make contracts for imperatively needed supplies for the War and Navy Departments without inclusion of the stipulation which Congress
had required. The Public Contracts Act, so far as the
steel industry is concerned, has been suspended for more
than a year, with no bond or security to protect the public's interest in the maintenance of wage standards contemplated by Congress, should'the suspension ultimately
appear unwarranted or unauthorized." Here, and below,
the Government has challenged the right of the judiciary
to take such action, alleging that it constitutes an unwarranted interference with deliberate legislative policy
and with executive administration vital to the achievement of governmental ends, at the instance of parties
whose rights the Government has not invaded and who
have no standing in court to attack the Secretary's determination. The manifestly far-reaching importance of the
questions thus raised prompted us to grant certiorari.'
Of the six "localities" into which the Secretary's determination divided-the steel industry, respondents do business in that consisting of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
309 U. S. 643.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

Maryland, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermbnt, -New Hampshire, Maine, the District of Columbia, and a part of West
Virginia.9 Their stated grievance was that the construction given to the term "locality" by the Secretary
amounted to "a -plain error of law in interpreting the
Act,... and, consequently, in purporting... , to determine
the prevailing minimum wages for persons employed in
the manufacture .-. . of the iron and steel industry in
the six so-calledtocalities' set forth in this determination
[the Secretary] acted arbitrarily and capriciously and wholly without warrant or authority in law.",o In particular the complaint allegedRespondents had been selling their products to agents
of the United States for many years; they wished to con-.
tinue to bid on Government contracts; their minimum
wages had ranged from 530 to 56/20 per hour; if required to pay the 621/& per hour minimum rate determined by the Secretary there was grave danger that they
would be unable successfully to compete with others: for
Government contracts; they had a legal right to bid for
Government contracts free from any obligation to*abide
by the minimum wage determination because of alleged
illegal administrative construction of "locality"; and if
denied the right to bid without paying their employees
this minimum wage they would suffer "irreparable and
irrecoverable damages" for which the law provided no
"plain, adequate or complete remedy."
'The remaining five localities are: 1, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Oklahoma, Texas,
Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia, Virginia, and a part of West Virginia;
2, Washington, Oregon and California; 3, Montana, Idaho, Nevad,
Wyoming, New Mexico, Utah, Colorado and Arizona; 4, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri and
the area in and about East Saint Louis, Illinois; 5,Wisconsin, Illinois
(except the area in and about East Saint Louis, Illinois), Michigan and
Indiana.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

125

Opinion of the Court.

In staying the effect of the administrative wage determination, the Court of Appeals for the District was of
the opinion that "the word locality is one of somewhat indefinite meaning" requiring the Secretary to exercise judgment and discretion "within the proper limits of the
meaning of locality," but held that the Secretary's determination in this case went "so far beyond any possible
proper application of the words as to defeat its meaning
and to constitute an attempt arbitrarily to disregard the
statutory mandate."
We are of opinion that no legal rights of respondents
were shown to have been invaded or threatened in the
complaint upon which the injunction of the Court of
Appeals was based. It is by now clear that neither
damage nor loss of income in consequence of the action
of Government, which is not an 'invasion of recognized
legal rights, is in itself a source of legal rights in the
absence of constitutional legislation recognizing it as
such."0 It is not enough that the Secretary of Labor is
charged with an erroneous interpretation of the term
"locality" as an element in her wage determination. Nor
can respondents vindicate any general interest which the
public may have in the construction of the Act by the
Secretary and which must be left to the political process. Respondents, to have standing in court, must show
an injury or threat to a particular right of their own, as
distinguished from the public's interest in the administration of the law.' They claim a standing by asserting
that they have particular rights under and even apart
from statute to bid and negotiate for Government
contracts free from compliance with the determin.ation
".Tennessee Electric Power Co. v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 306
U. S. 118, 137-8; Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes, 302 U. S. 464; Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
'Stearns v. Wood, 236 U. S. 75, 78; Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S.
126, 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

made by the Secretary of Labor for their industry. Respondents point to § 3709 "of the Revised Statutes and to
the Public Contracts Act itself. Section 3709 of the Revised Statutes requires for the
Government's benefit that its contracts be .made after
public advertising. 2 It was not enacted for the protection
of sellers and confers no enforceable rights upon prospective bidders."' "The United States needs the protection
of publicity, form, regularity of returns and affidavit
(Revised Stats., §§ 3709, 3718-3724, 3745-3747), in order
to prevent possible -frauds upon it by others. A private
person needs no such protection against a written undertaking signed by himself. The duty is imposed upon the
officers of the Government and not upon him." 1 That
duty is owing to the Government and- to no one else.
=R.S. 3709 (41'U. S. C. 5) provides: "Except as otherwise provided by law all purchases and contracts for supplies or services, in
any of the departments of the Government, and purchases of Indian
supplies, except for personal services, shall be made by advertising a
sufficient time previously for proposals respecting the same, when
the public exigencies do not require the immediate delivery of the
articles, or performance of the service. When immediate delivery
or performance is required by the public exigency, the articles or
service required may be procured by open purchase or contract, at
the places and in the manner in which such articles are usually bought
and sold, or such services engaged, between individuals."
Cf. Goldberg v. Daniels, 231 U. S.218.
"United States v. New York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239 U. S.
88, 92, 93; AmericAn Smelting & Refining Co. v. United States, 259
U. S. 75, 78. Cf.'Colorado-PavingCo. v..Murphy, 78 F. 28 (C. C. A.
8th). See 38 Op. Att. Gen. 555, 557. Bidders have not been able
to contest the award of contracts as bidders or in their capacity as
citizens generally.. O'Brien v. Carney, 6 F. Supp. 761; B. F. Cummings Co. v. Burleson, 40 App. D. C. 500; Chqmpion Coated Paper
Co. v. Joint Committee on Printing, 47 App. D. C. 141; cf. Strong
v. United States, 6 Ct. Cls. 135. And the view that bidders have no,
standing in the courts has been generally recognized by the Comptroller General, the Inter-Departmental Board on Contracts of the
Bureau of the Budget as well as the Senate Judiciary Committee.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.
113

127

Opinion of the Court.

Like private individuals and businesses, the Government
enjoys the unrestricted power to produce its own supplies,
to determine those with whom it will deal, and to fix the
terms and conditions upon which it will make -needed
purchases." Acting through its agents as it must of necessity, the Government may for the purpose of keeping
its own house in order lay down guide posts by which its
agents are to proceed in the procurement of supplies, and
which create duties to the Government alone. It has done
so in the Public Contracts Act. That Act does not depart
from but instead embodies the traditional principle of
leaving purchases necessary to the operation of our Government to administration by the executive branch of Government, with adequate range of discretion free from vexatious and dilatory restraints at the suits of prospective
or potential sellers. It was not intended to be a bestowal
of litigable rights upon those desirous of selling to the Government; it is a self-imposed restraint for violation of
which the Government-but not private litigants-cancomplain. Thus, a wage determination by the Secretary
contemplates no controversy between parties and no fixing of private rights; the process of arriving .at a wage determination contains no semblance of these elements which
go to make up a litigable controversy as our law knows the
concept 1 Courts have never reviewed or supervised the
administration of such an executive responsibility even
where executive duties "require an interpretation of the
law.""' Judicial restraint of those who administer the
Hearing before the Comm. on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, 71st Cong., 2nd Sess., on H. R. 5568, Serial 4, Part 1, pp.
16-22, 26-27; Senate Report 433, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
" Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S.
246; Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175; cf. Federal Trade Commision
v. Raymond Co., 263 U. S. 565.

'Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 294, 319, 320.
, United States ex rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 48; cf. Butte,
A. & P."Ry. Co. v. United States, 290 U. S. 127, 136, 142, 143.

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S:

Government's purchasing would constitute a break with
settled judicial practice and a departure into fields hitherto
wisely and happily apportioned by the genius of our polity
to the administration of another branch of Government.
This Act's purpose was to impose obligations upon those
favored with Government business and to obviate the possibility that any part of our tremendous national expenditures would go to forces tending to depress wages and
purchasing power and offending fair social standards of
employment. As stated in the Report .of the House Committee on the Judiciary on the Bill,"8 "The object of the
bill is to require persons having contracts with the Government to conform to certain labor conditions in the performance of the contracts and thus to eliminate the
practice under which the Government is compelled to deal
with sweat shops."
We find nothing in the Act indicating any intention to
abandon a principle acted upon since the Nation's founding under which the -legislativeand executive departments
have exercised complete and final authority to enter into
contracts "for Government purchases. The Committee
Hearings and Reports and the construction of the measure
by its sponsors disclose no purpose to invoke judicial supervision over agents chosen by Congress to perform these
duties. And §§ 4 and 5 do not subject a wage determination to such review. Provision for -hearings and findings
by the Secretary with respect to decisions upon breaches
of stipulations by contractors, once purchases have been
made, is indicative of a lack of intention to create any'
rights for prospective bidders before a purchase is
concluded.
The Act does not represent an exercise by Congress of
regulatory power over private business or employment 9
House Report No. 2946, 74th Cong., 2nd Ses.
' Cf. Ex parte Williams, 277 U. S. 267, 269, 272; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172, 180.

- PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO:

-

J13"

129

Opinion of the Court-

this legislation Congress did no more than instruct its
agents who were selected and granted final authority to
fix the terms and conditions under which the Government
will permit goods to be sold to it. The Secretary of Labor
is under a duty to observe those instructions just as a purchasing agent of a private corporation must observe those
of his principal. In both instances prospective bidders for
contracts derive no enforceable rights against the agent
for an erroneous interpretation of the principal's authorization. For erronedus construction of his instructions,
given for the sole benefit of the principal, the agent is responsible to his principal alone because his misconstruction violates no duty he owes to any but his principal. The
Secretary's responsibility is to superior executive and legislative authority. Respondents have no standing in court
to enforce that responsibility or to represent the public's
interest in the Secretary's compliance with the Act.20
That respondents sought to vindicate such a public right
or interest is made apparent both by their prayer that the
determination be suspended as to the entire steel industry
and by the extent of the injunction granted.
The contested action of the restrained officials did not
invade private rights in a manner amounting to a tortious
violation. On the contrary, respondents in effect seek
through judicial action to interfere with the manner in
which the Government may dispatch its own internal affairs. And jn attempted support of the injunction granted
they cite many cases involving contested Government
regulation of the conduct-of private business." Their cited
cases, however, all relate to problems different from those

- In

Cf. General Investment Co. v. New York Central R. Co., 271
U. S. 228, 230. See also Note 10.

ISee, e. g., Utah Fuel Co. v. Coal Comm'n, 306 U. S. 56, 58; Shields
v. Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177; Waite v. Macy, :246
U. S. 606; American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 94; Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S. 3; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33;
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1939'.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S

inherent in the imposition of judicial restraint upon agents
engaged in the purchase of the Government's own supplies.
The Government can-supply its needs by its own manufacturing or by purchase. - And Congress can as it always
has, eiter do the purchasing of the Government's goods
and supplies itself, or it can entrust its agents with final
power to do so and make these agents. responsible only to
it. , ,' Courts should not, where Congress has not done so,
subject purchasing agencies of Government to the delays
necessarily incident to judicial scrutiny at the instance of
potential sellers, which would be contrary to traditional
governmental practice and would create a new concept of
judicial controversicz. A, like restraint applied to purchasing by private business would be widely condemned
as an intolerable business handicap. -'It is, as both Congress and the courts have always recognized, essential to
the even and expeditious functioning of Government that
the administration of the purchasing machinery be unhampered. The Constitution prohibits appropriations for the
Army for more than two years,2" and by statute contracts
for the purchase of departmental supplies are in general
limited to one year.2 These prohibitions emphasize the
grave importance of leaving the restraint of the Government's purchasing agents to Congress and their executive
_superiors.
25
The record here discloses the "confusion and disorder"
that can result from the delays necessarily incident to.
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172, 182;
Work v. Rives, 267 U. S. 175; Butte, A. & P. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 290 U. S. 127; United States v. Babcock, 250 U. S. 328;

Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S.627; Adams v. Nagle, 303 U. S.532,

540-1.

-Art. I, § 8, cl.
12.

-241 U. S. C. 13.
Cf. Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497,
516.

PERKINS v. LUKENS STEEL CO.

131

Opinion of the Court.

113

judicial supervision of administrative procedure developed
to meet present day needs of Government and capable of
operating efficiently and fairly to both private and public
interests. In the appropriate words of Mr. Justice Sutherland, "The bare suggestion of such a result, with its attendant inconveniences, goes far to sustain the conclusion
which we have reached, that a suit of this character cannot
be maintained." " For more than a year, Cabinet officers
and their subordinates have been enjoined from making
the Secretary's determination of minimum wages effective.
Meanwhile, iron and steel were needed for the Army and
Navy. In order that the military program could proceed,
the declared policy of the Congress was abandoned under
judicial compulsion and contracts without a minimum
wage stipulation have been awarded for more than $65,000,000.00 worth of iron and steel products since the injunction issued. If the general law permits prospective
bidders to challenge each wage determination of the Secretary in the courts, by a like token all employees affected
could obtain judicial review. Such a possibilty places in
bold relief those conditions which led Congress to proceed
in this Act upon the belief, to which we have recently
alluded,2 8 that "legislatures are ultimate guardians of the
hiberties and welfare -of the people in quite as great a
degree as the courts." 0
The case before us makes it fitting to remember that
"The interference of the Courts with the performance of
the ordinary duties of the executive departments of the
Government, would be productive of nothing but mis"Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 487.
'Bulletins Nos. 75 to 176, inclusive, of the Division of Public
Contracts of the Department of Labor.

Federal Communications .Commission v. Pottsville Broadcasting
Co., 309 U. S. 134, 146.

Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

132

Syllabus.

310 U. S.

chief; and we are quite satisfied that such a power was
never intended to be given to them." 2 0
The District Court roperly dismissed the bill and the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia was in
error in finding respondents with standing to bring this
action, in ordering the Secretary's determination restrained
and in holding respondents entitled to declaratory
judgment 1
Our decision that the complaining companies lack
standing to sue.does not rest upon a mere formality. We
rest it upon reasons deeply rooted in the constitutional
divisions of authority in our system of Government and
the impropriety of judicial interpretations of law at the
instance of those who show no more than a mere possible
injury to the public. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and that of the District Court dismissing
- the bill is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the challenged judgment should be affirmed.

WARREN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. PALMER
TRUSTEES.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECrOND CIRCUIT.

No. 643.

Argued March 29, April 1, 1940.-Decided April 29, 1940.

-here a railroad system, in a reorganization proceeding under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act, includes a' leased line, operated at a loss
and which can not be operated by its owne?-and where, by order
of the court the trustees have rejected the lease but have continued to operate the leased road for the account of the lessor,
Decatutr v. Paulding, supra, at 516.
'Aetna. Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth. 300 U. S. 227, 240-1.

