TIGNER v. TEXAS.
132

Syllabus.

tion so long as it continued to operate the road to grant a
lien for operating expenses prior. to any existing claims
against the road. The decision of the Court of Appeals
that the Connecticut court had jurisdiction to grant the
lien sought by respondent is
Affirmed.

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 635. Argued March 29, 1940.--Decided May 6, 1940.
1. Since farmers and stockmen are widely scattered and inured to
habits of individualism and economically are in large measure
dependent upon contingencies beyond their control, a legislature
may reasonably believe that combinations of farmers and stockmen restraining trade in their agricultural products and livestock
present no threat to the community, or, at least, that the threat
is of a different order from that of combinations of industrialists
and middlemen. P. 145.
2. Since Connolly v. 'Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, was
decided, an impressive legislative movement bears witness to
general acceptance of the view that the differences between agriculture and industry call for differentiation in the formulation
of public policy. P. 145.
3. The "laws" meant by the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment are not abstractions but are expressions of policy
arising out of specific difficulties, addressed to the attainment of
specific ends by the use of specific remedies. The Constitution
does not require things which are different in fact or opinion to be
treated in law as though they were the same. P. 147.
4. A Texas penal statute punishing conspiracies in restraint of trade
but expressly inapplicable to "agricultural products or livestock
while in the hands of the producer or raiser," held, consistent with
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Ameidment. P. 149.
5. In effectuating its policy with respect to combinations in restraint of trade, the Texas legislature, though exempting farmers
and stockmen from penal remedies applicable to others, subjected
them like others to civil penalties. Held, within legislative discretion and consistent with equal protectiofi.of the laws. P. 149.
132 S. W, 2d 885, affirmed.

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellant.

310 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment which affirmed a judgment
denying a. petition for a writ of habeas corpus and remanding the petitioner to custody under an indictment
for conspiracy.
Mr.' Charles I. Francis, with whom Mr. William A.
Vinson was on the brief, for appellant.
The exemption provision in the Illinois statute involved
in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, was
practically identical, and that case is decisive here. 'See
also Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 32; Hayes v. Mis:
souri, 120 U. S. 68, 71. The decisions relied on by the
court below do not sustain its conclusion that "in view
of the supervening economic conditions since 1902" the
rule of the Connolly case is not controlling.
The object of the Texas antitrust laws is to encourage
.competition and prevefit the evils incident to price fixing etc. Under the civil statutes, price-fixing agreements
of farmers are illegal, just as are those made by others.
State v. Standard Oil Co., 130 Tex. 313. Thus, the State
recognizes that it is not in the public interest to permit
monopolies, trusts and conspiracies in restraint of trade
by any-class of citizens. Yet, this politically powerful
class is exempted from penalties prescribed by the criminal antitrust statutes, while all other classes are subjected
thereto.
What justification in logic or in law can be offered for
making an act criminal if committed by a merchant or a
manufacturer but not if committed by a ranchman or
farmer? No grand jury could indict these ranchmen for
a criminal offense, because they are exempt from criminal
prosecution. And no action under the civil antirust
statutes could be taken against them for price fixing, unless the Attorney General, an elected official, consented
that 'such a suit be instituted. Art. 7436, Tit. 126, Vernon's Texas Civil Stats. Vol. 20, p. 638. Such a proceeding
has never occurred and probably never will occur in Texas.

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

Economic considerations, do not justify the exception
of farmers and stockmen from the criminal antitrust laws.
They are not excepted from the civil antitrust laws.
There exists no su~h difference between the classes in
their relation to the ultimate, object of the statute as
would justify the discrimination. The object of the statute is punishment for " price-fixing and other forbidden
acts. Ranchmen and farmers have the same relationship
towards this object as appellant. The only difference is in
occupations, in each of which price-fixing agreements are
illegal under the civil laws.
Many business men have as little opportunity to suppress competitiori as farmers and stockmen, and many,
people are as poor. The mere fact that more farmers and
stockmen live in the country than in the city, and the
mere fact that as a group they may not have the same
opportunities and facilities for restricting competition
and controlling prices as other businessmen, are differences
insufficient to justify the classification.
Truax v.
Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Hartford Steam Boiler Co. v.
Harrison, 301 U. S. 459; Power Mfg. Co. v. Saunders,
274 U. S. 490; Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,277
U. S. 389; Liggett Co. v. Baldridge, 278 U. S. 105;-Smith
v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553; Frost v. CorporationComm'n,
278 U. S. 515; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150; In re Opinion of Justices, 211 Mass. 618.
.Messrs. George W. Barcus, Assistant Attorney General
of Texas, and Lloyd Davidson,with whom Messrs. Gerald
C. Mann, Attorney General, Dan W. Jackson, and C. K.
Bullard were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FRANXFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code,
as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 344, to review a judgment of
"the Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas sustaining the

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S,

constitutionality of a Texas anti-trust law, and therefore upholding an indictment under it. Appellant was
charged with participation in a conspiracy to fix the retail
price of beer. Such a conspiracy is made a criminal
offense by Title 19, Chapter 3, of the Texas Penal Code.
Because the provisions of this law do not "apply to agricultural products or live stock in the hands of the producer or raiser," Art. 1642, Tigner challenged the validity
of the entire statute and sought release in the local courts
by habeas corpus. His claim has been rejected by the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. 132 S. W. 2d 885.
Essentially his contention is that the exemption granted
by the Texas statute falls within the condemnation of
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, as offensive to "the equal. protection of the laws" which the
Fou teenth Amendment safeguards. If that case controls, appellant contends, the Texas Act cannot survive
-and,he must go free.
The court below recognized that the exemption was
identical with that deemed fatal to the Illinois statute
involved in Connolly's case. But it felt that time and
circumstances had drained that case of vitality, leaving
it free to treat the exemption as an exercise of legislative
discretion. A similar attitude has been reflected by the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin, Northern Wisconsin Cooperative Tobacco Pool v. Bekkedal, 182 Wis. 571, 593;
197 N. W. 936, and appears to underlie much recent
state and federal legislation. Dealing as we are with an
appeal to the Constitution, the Connolly case ought not
to foreclose us from considering this exemption in its
own setting.
The problem, in brief, is this: May Texas promote its
policy 'of freedom -for economic-enterprise-by utilizing.
the. criminal law againsf arious forms of combination:
and~monopoi ; but exclude from-crinmnla punishment corresponding activities of agriculture?

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

Legislation, both state and federal, similar to that of
Texas had its origin in fear of the concentration of industrial power following the Civil War. Law was invoked
to buttress the traditional system of free competition, free
markets and free enterprise. Pressure for this legislation
came more particularly from those who as producers, as
well as consumers, constituted the most dispersed economic groups.' These large sections of the populationthose who labored with their hands and those who worked
the soil-were as a matter of economic fact in a different
relation to the community from that occupied by industrial combinations. Farmers were widely scattered and
inured to habits of individualism; their economic fate was
iii large measure dependent upon contingencies beyond
their control. In these circumstances, legislators may
well have thought combinations of 'farmers and stockmen
presented no threat to the community, or, at least, the
threat was of a different order from that arising through
combinations of industrialists and middlemen. At all
events legislation like that of Texas rested on this view,
curbing industrial and commercial combinations, and did
not visit the same condemnation upon collaborative
efforts by farmers and stockm tn because the latter-were
felt to have a different economic significance. 2
Since Connolly's case was decided, nearly forty years
ago, an impressive legislative move.nent bears witness to
'See 2 Beard, The Rise of American CivL. zation, pp. 254-343;
Buck, The Granger Movement, passim; Hicks, .'he Populist Revolt,
passim; Sheldon, Populism in the Old Dominion, pp. 17-20. Compare the letter of Mr. Justice Miller in Fairman, Mr. Justice Miller
and the Supreme Court, p. 67. For the background of the Texas
legislation see Finty, Anti-Trust Legislation in Texas, a collection of
articles published in the Galveston News during the summer of 1916;
Nutting, The Texas Anti-Trust Law: A Post-Mortem 14 Tex. L.
Rev. 293.
:See Seager and Gulick, Trust and Corporation Problems, pp.
149-95, 339-85.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

general acceptance of the view that the' differences between agriculture and industry call for differentiatioi in
the formulation of public policy. -The states as well as
the United States have sanctioned coSperative action by
farmers; have restricted their amenability to the antitrust laws; have relieved their organizations from taxation. See, e. g., Capper-Volstead Act, 42 Stat.. 388, 7
U. S. 0. § 291; Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, 731, 15 U. S. C.
§ 17; § 101 (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, 53 Stat. 33.
Such expressions of legislative policy have withstood
challenge in the courts. Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Tobacco Giowers, 276 U. S. 71.1 Congress and the states
have sometimes thought it necessary to control the supply,
and price of agricultural commodities within their respective spheres of jurisdiction, and the constitutional
validity of these measures has been sustained. Mulford
v%.Smith, 307 U. S. 38;- United States v. Rock Royal
Co-op., 307 U. S. 533; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502.
At the core of.all these enactments lies a conception
of price and production policy for agriculture very different from that which underlies the demands made upon
industry and commerce by anti-trust laws.' These vari'The state court cases are collected in United States v. Rock
Royal Co-op., 307 U. S. 533, 563-64. See Hanna, Law of Cooperative Marketing Associations, pp. 26-111. Compare German Alliance
Ins. Co. v. Lewis. 233 U. S. 389, 418; International Harvester Co.
v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199; Aero Transit Co. v. Georgia Comm'n, 295

U. S. 285.
' See, for instance, the findings and declarations of policy embodied
in the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 31, 120, 202,
215, 586, 775. Compare Seager and Gulick, op. cit. supra, note 2,
pp. 322-23; Black, Agricultural Reform in -the United States, pp.
1-61, 337-49; Nourse, Davis and Black, Three Years of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration,. passim; Nourse, Marketing Agreements Under the A-AA., pp. 315-49. Compare, as to railroad and
express consolidations, § 5 (8) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended, 41 Stat. 456, 482, 49 U. S. C. § 5 (8); as to bituminous
coal, see § 4, 1 (d) of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, 50 Stat 72, 77.

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

ous measures are manifestations of the fact that in our
national economy agriculture expresses functions and
forces different from the other elements in the total economic process. Certainly these are differences which
may be acted upon by the lawmakers. The equality at
which the "equal protection" clause aims is not a disembodied equality. The Fourteenth Amendment enjoins "the equal protection of the laws," and laws are not
abstract propositions. They do not relate to abstract
units A, B and C, but are expressions cf policy arising,
out of specific difficulties, addressed to the attainment of
specific ends by the use of specific remedies. The Constitution does not require things which are different in
fact or opinion to be treated in law as though they were
the same. And so 'we conclude that to write into law the
differences .between agriculture and 'other economic pursuits was within the power of the Texas legislature. Conno~ly's case has been worn away by the erosion of time,
and we are of opinion that it is no longer iontrolling.
Another feature of Texas anti-trust legislation is relied
on by Tigner to invalidate the criminal statute under
which he is being prosecuted. Beginning with the first
enactment in 1894, the Texas anti-trust laws have had
a complicated and checkered history. At present there
are two statutes directed at combination and monopolythe one under which Tigner was indicted, and another,
subjecting to civil penalties the same conduct at which
the challenged criminal law is aimed. Title 126, Revised
Civil Statutes. From such civil proceedings, which the
Attorney General initiates, 'no exemption is given to
farmers and stockmen. Appellant urges that the divergence between civil and criminal laws relating to the
same conduct undermines the validity of the exemption
in the criminal statute and thus invalidates the whole of
it. This argument is but a minor variation on appellant's
main theme. It amounts to a claim that differences

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

substantial enough to permit substantive differentiation in
formulating legislative policy do not permit differentiation
as to remedy.
How to effectuate policy-the adaptation of means to
legitimately sought ends-is one of the most intractable
of legislative problems. Whether proscribed conduct is
to be deterred by qui tam action or triple damages or
injunction, or by criminal prosecution, or merely by defense to actions in contract, or by some, or all, of these
remedies in combination, is a matter within the legislature's range of choice. Judgment on the deterrent effect
of -the various weapons in the armory of the law can lay
little claim to scientific basis. Such judgment as yet is
largely a prophecy based on meager and uninterpreted
experience How empiric the process is of adjusting
remedy to policy, is shown by the history of anti-trustlaws in Texas and elsewhere. The Sherman Law originally employed the injunction vt the suit of the governmerit, private action for triple damages, criminal prosecution and forfeiture. Later the injunction was made available to private suitors? In the case of combinations of
common carriers the Sherman Law is qualified by the
Interstate Commerce Act, Keogh v. Chicago & N. W. Ry.
Co., 260 U. S. 156, and, in the case of shipping combinations, by the Merchant Marine Act, U. S. Navigation Co.
v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474. In its own groping
efforts to deal with the problem of monopoly, the Texas
legislature has in the course of nearly half a century invoked a dozen remedies." When Iowa superimposed upon
its general anti-trust law an additional penalty in the
case of fire insurance combinations, this Court sustained
SSee the Sherman Law, as amended, and supplementary enactments, in 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 11, 15, 16, 21, 23, 25, 26.
"See Nutting op. cit. supra, note 1, pp. 296-97. For the remedies
now prevailing, see Texas Penal Code, Art. 1635, 1637, 1638; Revised Civil Statutes, Art. 7428-7437.

TIGNER v. TEXAS.
141

149

,Opinion of the Court.

the validity of the statute. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401.
Legislation concerning economic combinations presents
peculiar difficulties in the fashioning of remedies. The
sensitiveness of the economic mechanism, the risks of introducing new evils in trying to stamp out old, familiar
ones, the difficulties of proof within the conventional
modes of procedure, the effect of shifting tides of public
opinion-these and many other subtle factors must influence legislative choice. Moreover, the whole problem
of deterrence is related to still wider considerations affecting the temper of the community in which law operates.
The traditions of a society, the habits of obedience to
law, the effectiveness of the law-enforcing agencies, are
all peculiarly matters of time arid place. They are thus
matters within legislative competence. To say that the
legislature of Texas must give to farmers complete immunity or none at all, is to say that judgment on these
vexing issues precludes the view ihat, while the dangers
from combinations of farmers and stockmen are so tenuous that civil remedies suffice to secure deterrence, they
are substantial enough not to warrant entire disregard.
We hold otherwise. Here, again, we must be mindful
not of abstract equivalents of conduct, but of conduct in.
the context of actuality. Differences 'that permit substantive differentiations also permit differentiations of
remedy. We find no constitutional bar against excluding
farmers and stockmen from the criminal statute against
combination and monopoly, and so holding, we conclude
that there was likewise no bar against making the exemption partial rather than complete.
Affirmed.
MR: JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opiniofi that the judg-

ment below should be reversed.

