362

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

310 U.S.

It sought such a bench only to avoid precipitate determinations on constitutionality on motions for interlocutory
injunctions.
As the foregoing ground adequately disposes of the
petition for mandamus, we do not discuss the other
reasons for refusal urged by the Bank.
The motion to file the petition for mandamus is
Denied.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. BROWNING ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO.THE SUPREME COURT*OF TENNESSEE.

No. 789. Argued April 30, May 1, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.
1. In the absence of special circumstances rendering it inapplicable
to the particular case, the mileage basis affords an appropriate
method, consistent with' the Commerce Clause, 'of apportioning
the value of an interstate railroad system among. the several States
in which it functions, for the purpose of taxation. Arithmetical
precision in the apportionment is not essential to its validity.
P. 365.
The judgment of state taxing, authorities and courts upholding
a use of the mileage basis, despite evidence of different earning
capacities of lines of the railroad in and out of the State,--acepted
in this case.
2. Upon review of a decree of a state court sustaining a tax assessment of a rail'road over the objection thatunconstitutional discrimination resulted from systematic assessment of railroads and other
public utilities at full value'and undervaluation of all other kinds
of property, this Court declines to examine, the minutes of the
state board of 6qualization, not in the record but proffered here
for the first time in the litigation, in order to learn whether the
.sfate court was correct in presuming that disparities of assessment
had,been equalized, as required by the state law. P. 366.
3 T* Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment permits
a ste to classify the property of railroads and other public utilities
separately from other property and to'tax it higher. P. 367.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. BROWNING.
362

363

Opinion of the Court.

4. Where a State for many years systematically assessed the property
ofrailroads and other utilities at full cash value and all other kinds
of property at less than cash valuej-held that the practice was the
"law" 'of the State, within the meaning of the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, although uniformity of taxa,tion was commanded by the state constitution, and although it were
true that the tax in question was sustained by the State Supreme
Court by a resort to fiction. P. 369.
5. The contention that an assessment, continued without change for
a series of years, had become confiscatory because of decrease in
value of the property due to economic causes, is rejected because
(1) The Court finds in the record no warrant for upsetting the
administrative determination, sustained by the state courts. P. 370.
(2) The maintenance of an 'assessment in the face of declining
value is merely a way of increasing the tax. P. 370.
140 S. W. 2d 781, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 651, to review d.decree sustaining

the dismissal of a suit to reduce, as excessive, a tax assessment of railroad property.
Mr. William H. Swiggart, with whom Mr. Edwin' F.
Hunt was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. F. Barry, Assistant Attorney General of Ten-

nessee, with whom Messrs. Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General, and Dudley Porter,Jr., Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

This case is here to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee sustaining an assessment of petition-

er's property, tangible and intangible, under that state's(
ad valorem tax law.. All Tennessee property is subject to
such a tax; but there are two schemes of. procedure for

making assessments, one for public service corporations
and one for other taxpayers.

As to ordinary property

the task of valuation rests upon officials of the various
counties. For public service corporations the assessments

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S,

must be made by the Railroad and Public Utilities Commission, which is commanded to ascertain the "actual
cash value" of corporate property situated in Tennessee:
Tefnnessee Code, § 1526. , ince. petitioner operates an
interstate railroad, the value of -its entire, system and
not inerely of that portion within Tennesse6 had first to
be ascertained. This the Commission estimated at $23,04.14. From this figure was deducted the value nf
petitioner's "localized" property, that is, its terminal
buildings, shops, and non-operating real estate. The re'maining sum served as the base for calculating the value
of what in the language of Tennessee law is called the
utility's "distributable" property attributable to Tennessee, § 1528, which the Commission ascertained by taking
the ratio which petitioner's mileage in Tennessee bears to
its total-mileage. This was found to be $12,925,944; and
that is the amount of the -assessment here in dispute.
From this action by the Commission petitioner appealed,
.ih'a'eordance with the local statute, to the State Board
of Equalization, respondeit here. After hearing and by
formal opinion, the Board confirmed, the Commission's
valiation.
In' anticipation of"a' certificati6n -by the Board of its
firal assessment preliminary: to the collection of taxes
based upon it, the Railway brought an appropriate proceeding in the state courts to set aside what it claimed
Wva the vdid "excess of the fair taxable value" of its property. This suit was dismissed by the trial court aid its
jpdgment was affirmed by th& Supreme Court'of, Tennessee with two justices separately dissentig. 140 S. W..
2t';
,-Because of petitioner's claim that the result belWas
incohsistenit with decisions of this Court; we
gOato3 certiorari., 309 3. S. 651. The assessnment was
c.tb4t- belof oin obje tions" grounded 'i both4 state
ai .f)dzralconstituiions. IT4, of 0curge oidy. fqderal
i'4ast ons are-open. 'Petitine- claims that the hllenged
.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY.-v. BROWNING.
362

365

Opinion of the Court

assessment violates the Fourteenth Amendment in its
guarantees of due process and the equal protection of the
laws, and is offensive to the Commerce Clause.
We shall first consider the claim based on the historic
implications of the Commerce Clause as a limitation upon
the state's taxing power. Petitioner argued that Tennessee has taxed values which are in4 truth outside its
borders, thereby burdening that which the Commerce
Clause has left free. The guiding principles for adjustment of the state's right to secure its revenues and the nation's duty to protect interstate transportation are by this
time well settled. The problem to be solved is what portion
of an interstate organism-may appropriately be attributed
to each of the various states in which it functions. Basic to
the accommodation of these conflicting state and national
-interests is realization that by its very nature the problem is incapable of precise and arithmetical solution. In
tapping these common sources of revenue a state cannot,
we have held, use a fiscal formula, whatever may be its
appearance of certitude, to project the taxing power of
the state plainly beyond its borders., Wallace v. Hines,
253 U. S. 66. In the light of these principles, Tennessee
has not overstepped its bounds.
In basing its apportionment on mileage, the Tennessee
Commission adopted a familiar and frequently sanctioned
formula. Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.
18; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry..Co., 142 U. S. 217; Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421
Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182. See 2 Cooley on
Taxation, pp. 1660-64. Its asserted inapplicability to the
particular situation is rested on petition~er's evidence as
to the comparative revenue-producing capacity of its lines
'in and out of Tennessee. But both the Commission and
the Supreme Court of the state thought that this evidence,
however weighty, was insufficient to, displace the relevance
of the formula. In a matter wher'e exactness is con-

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U.S.

cededly unobtainable and the feel of judgment so important a factor, we must be on guard lest unwittingly we
displace the tax officials' judgment with our own. Certainly we cannot say that the combined judgment of
Commission, Board, and state courts is baseless. Wherever the states' taxing authorities have been held to have
intruded upon the protected domain -of interstate commerce in their use of a mileage formula, the special circumstances of the particular situation, in the view which
this Court took of them, precluded a defensible utilization
of the mileage basis. Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright,
-249 U. S. 275; Wallace v. Hines, supra; Southern Ry. Co.
v. Kentucky, 274 U. S. 76. No such circumstances are
here presented.
This brings us to the Company's claims under. the
Fourteenth Amendment. The Railway first asserts that
it is a victim of such irvidious discrimination in the
administration of Tennessee's tax statutes as is proscribed by the gi.aranty of "the equal protection of the
laws." •The claim is founded upon the following circumstances. As we have already indicated, there are two
separate modes for the assessment of property in Tennessee, each with its distinctive procedure. The property of public service corporations is assessed by the
Commission; all other property by local officials. This
broad classification, separating two very different types
of property, has been reflected, according to petitioner's
contention, by a corresponding difference in the bases of
assessment. For more than forty years, so it was urged
before the courts of Tennessee and later here, the county
assessors have systematically valued property at far less
than its true worth, while utility and railroad properties have been assessed by the Commission at full value.,
'For a history of Tennessee railroad taxation, see Brannen, Taxation in Tennessee, pp. 62 et seq.; Robison, Bob Taylor and the Agrarian Revolt-in Tennessee, pp. 123 et seq.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. BROWNING.
362

367

Opinion of the Court.

This systematic differentiation, petitioner claims, has
been continuous and state-wide in its operation; has been
"repeatedly brought to the attention of the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee"; has been left uncorre~ted by that body; and until the present case, so far
as we are informed, has been unchallenged. In support
of its claim the Railway adduced official and unofficial
reports as well as a volume of affidavits from local assessing officials in the counties through which its lines
run-all to the effect that locally assessed property was
undervalued. The issue of forbidden discrimination was
thus squarely raised below. But the Tennessee Supreme
Court did not deem petitioner's evidence sufficient to
overcome the presumption that in the exercise of its reviewing function, the Board had equalized assessments
in accordance with the command' of state law. We
should be reluctant on such a question to reject the state
court's determination as without foundation, and there
is not enough in the record, to warrant its repudiation.
At the bar of this Court petitioner proffered the minutes
of the State Board of Equalization-not in the recordto show the absence of equalization. Considering the nature of the litigation, the vigor and ability with which it
was contested before the Circuit Court of Davidson
County, on motion for new trial there, on the original
appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee and finally on
petition for rehearing, it would indeed turn this Court
into a board of tax review if we were now to receive
evidence not offered in any of the tribunals below.
. But were we to take judicial notice of that which these
minutes were offered to show, and therefore to regard
the ground taken by the state court as a strained
evasion of the differentiation between utility property on
the one hand and all the rest on the other, we should still
find no denial of the equal protection of the laws. It
must be emphasized that the Company makes no claim

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

310 U. S.

that its property is singled out from among other public
service corporations for discrimination. Its asserted
grievance is common to the whole class. We must put
to one side therefore all those cases relied on by the petitioner which invoked - the Fourteenth Amendment
against discriminations invidious to a particular 'taxpayer. Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20;
Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350; Sioux
City Bridge v. Dakota County, 260 U. S. 441; Bohler v.
Callaway, 267 U. S. 479; Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board,
284 U. S. 23; Iowa-Des Moines Bank v. Bennett, 284
U. S. 239. 'Alt tfese cases are inapposite. None denied
power to a state to apply different yardsticks to different
classes of property. Equally irrelevant are those cases in
whieh this Court., because of the nature of the litigation,
WAs construing the uniformity clause of a state constitution, and was not applying the Fourteenth Amendment.
Greene v. Louisville & I. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522. This Court
his previously had occasion to advert to the narrow and
sometimes cramping provision of these state uniformity
clauses, and has left no doubt that their inflexible restrictions upon the taxing powers of the state were not to be
insinuated into that ni~ritorious conception of equality
which alone the Equal Protection Clause was designed
to assure. See Puget Sound Co. v. King County, 264
U. S. 22, 27.
That the states may classify property for taxation; may
set up different modes of assessment, valuation and collection; may tax some kinds of property at higher rates
than others; and in making all these differentiations may
treat railroads and other utilities with that. separateness
which their distinctive characteristics and functions in
society make appropriate-these are among the commonplaces of taxation and of constitutional law. Ken'tucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; Pacific Express

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. BROWNING.
362

369

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S.339; FloridaCentral & P. R. Co.
v. Reynolds, 183 U. S.471; Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts,
260 U. S. 519; Atlantic Coast Line v. Daughton,262 U. S.
413; Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S. 573.
Since, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, a
stati can put railroad property into one pigeonhole iid
other property into another, the only question relevallt
for'us is whether the state has done so. If the discrimination of which the Railway complains had been formally
written into the statutes of Tennessee, challenge to its
constitutionality would be frivolous. If the state supreme court had construed the requirement of unifor mity
in the Tennessee Confstitution so as to permit recognition
of these diversities, no appeal cotld successfully be made
to the Fourteenth Amendment. Here, according to petitioner's own claim, all the organs of the state are conforming to a practice, systematic, unbroken for more than
forty years, and now questioned for the first time. It
would be a narrow conception of jurisprudence to confine
the notior of "laws" to what is found written on the
statute books, and to disregard the gloss which life has
written upon it. Settled state practice cannot supplant
constitutional guarantees, but it can establish what is
state law. The Equal Protection Clause did not write
an empty formalism into the Constitution. Deeply embedded traditional ways of carrying out state policy, such
as those of which petitioner complains, are often tougher
and truer law than the dead words of the written text.
Compare Carinav. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449,
459. And if thb state supreme court chooses to cover up
under a formal veneer of uniformity the established system of differentiation between two classes of property, an
exposure of the fiction is not enough to establish its unconstitutionality. Fictions have played an important and
sometimes fruitful part in the development of law; and
the Equal Protection Clause is not a command of candor.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion -of the Court.

310 U. S.

So we are of opinion that such a discrimination, not invidious but long-sanctioned and indeed conventional,
would not be offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment
simply because Tennessee had reached it by a circuitous
road. It is not the Fourteenth Amendment's function
to uproot systems of taxation inseparable from the state's
tradition of fiscal administration and ingrained in the
habits of its people.
Finally, the Railway claims that the valuation of its
entire system, on the basis of which the Commission has
measured Tennessee's shares, is so far in excess of "full
cash value" as to offend the Due Process Clause. The
details on which this claim is based are fully set forth
in the opinions below and call only for summary treatment here. The argument basically derives from the fact
that the Commission's valuation of petitioner's system
was the same as that for the'previous biennium, although
numerous adverse economic factors are alleged to have
greatly reduced the property's worth. But railroads, unlike farms and city lots and stocks and bonds; are not
objects of exchange. The very potion of a "full cash
value" for a railroad is in many respects artificial. See
1 Bonbright, The Valuation of Property, pp. 511-632.
Whatever may be the pretenses of exactitude in determining such a "value," to claim for it "scientific" validity,
is to employ the term in its loosest sense. Compare Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 598.
Thorough canvass by the state courts found no justification for upsetting the determination of the Commission,
and we could scarcely find warrant in the record for
doing so. But even assuming that there was an overassessment, constitutional invalidity would not follow. If
the needs of a state require higher taxes, the Fourteenth
Amendment certainly does not bar their imposition. The
maintenance of higher assessment in the face of declining
value is merely another way of achieving the same result.

UNITED STATES v. BUSH & CO.
Syllabus.

362

Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Weeks, 297 U. S.135, does not
bar the way. That is the only case, and it was decided
by a sharply divided Court, in which a non-discriminatory assessment was struck down simply because it was
thought excessive. Plainly, therefore, the case must have
rested upon considerations peculiar to its own facts.
Those are not the facts now before us. We conclude,
therefore, that the Commission's over-assessment of petitioner's property, if over-assessment there was, constitutes
no deprivation of any right under the .Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGE S. BUSH & CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS AND PATENT APPEALS.

No. 613.

Argued April 23, 24, 1940.-Decided May 20, 1940.

The President, acting on a report and recommendation of the Tariff
Commission pursuant to the flexible tariff provisions of the Tariff
Act of 1930, proclaimed an increase of duty on a Japanese product,
to equalize the difference between Japanese and domestic costs of
production. In fixing the increase, foreign cost of production was
determined, under § 336 (e), on the "weighted average of the
invoice prices or values for a representative period," taking as
representative the period from December 1, 1930, to September 30,
1932; but, as the invoice prices were in yen and as § 336 contains
no provision for conversion of currency, the Commission, in order
to compare those prices .with domestic cost, had converted them
into dollars at the average rate of exchange for 1932, selecting that
period because the value of yen in dollars had declined steadily from
December 1931 to November 1932. Held:
1. There is no express provision in the Act requiring that the rate
of exchange be taken from the same period as the invoice prices, and
none can be implied. P. 378.
2. The President's judgment in the matter is not subject to scrutiny
by the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals or by this Court.
P. 379.
3. Section 501 of the Act does not permit judicial examination of
the judgment of the President that the rates of duty recommended

