Dec. 1869.]

WATKINS V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

The District Court decreed in favor of the libellant, and
the Circuit Court having affirmed the decree, the case was
brought here.
After argument by Hr. Bvarts, for the appellant, and Messrs.
W. W. Goodrich and 0. Horwitz, contra,
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the judgment of the
court, to the effect, that upon the facts established it was
apparent that the case was to be governed by the principles
settled at this term in the case of The Grapeshot,* and that
the decree of the Circuit Court having been in accordance
with those principles, must be
AFFIRMED.

WATKINS V. UNITED STATES.
1. Pleading over without reservation to a declaration adjudged good on demurrer, is a waiver of the demurrer.
2. On a suit by the United States upon a marshal's official bond, the government may properly rest in the first instance, after having introduced
evidence, in the form of duly certified transcripts of the adjustment of
his accounts by the accounting officers of the Treasury. It need not
show that the marshal had notice of the adjustment of his accounts or
of the balance found against him in the transcript.
3. In order to allow a marshal in such a suit to set off a credit, it must be
shown that the claim for credit has been legally presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury for their examination and been by
them (except in certain cases) disallowed. And to be legally presented
the claim should be presented by items, and with the proper vouchers.
THE United States brought suit in the Circuit Court for
Maryland against Watkins, late marshal of the United States,
and his sureties, on the official bond of the said marshal.
Judgment was given for the United States; and Watkins
took a writ of error.
* Supra, 129.

760

WATKINS V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. W. M. Addison, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. TV. A.
Field, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Persons accountable for public money, if they neglect or
refuse to pay the sum or balance reported to be due to the
United States, upon the adjustment of their accounts, are
liable for the amount; and it is made the duty of the comptroller to institute suit for the recovery of the same, adding
to the sum stated to be due the commissions of the delinquent
and interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum from the
time thQ officer received the money until it shall be repaid.*
Transcripts from the books and proceedings of the treasury,
certified by the register and authenticated under the seal of
the department, are expressly declared to be competent evideuce in every such case of delinquency, and all copies of
bonds, contracts, or other papers relating to or connected
with the settlement of any such account, when certified by
the register to be true copies of the original on file, and authenticated under the seal of the department, may be annexed to such transcripts, and shall have equal validity and
be entitled to the same degree of credit which would be due
to the original papers, if produced and authenticated in
court.t Judgment is required to be rendered in such cases
at the return term, unless the defendant shall, in open court,
make oath that he is equitably entitled to credits which had
been submitted to the consideration of the accounting officers
of the treasury, and been rejected previous to the commencement of the suit, specifying each particular claim so rejected,
in the affidavit, and stating to the effect that he cannot safely
go to trial without that evidence. Such an affidavit being
filed, the court may grant a continuance to the next term,
but not otherwise; and the fourth section of the act provides
that, in suits between the United States and individuals, no claim
for a credit shall be admitted upon trial, but such as shall
* 1 Star. at Large, 512.

t- 1b. 513.

Dec. 1869.]

e.8ATKINS V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

appear to have been presented to the accounting officers of
the treasury for their examination, and which have been by
them disallowed in whole or in part, unless it is proved to
the satisfaction of the court that the defendant is, at the time
of the trial, in the possession of vouchers not before in his
power to procure, and that he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credit at the treasury by absence from
the United States, or some unavoidable accident.*
Pursuant to law the first-named defendant was, on the
twenty-eighth of March, 1857, commissioned as marshal of
the United States for the district of Maryland, to hold the
office for the term of four years from the first day of April
following, unless sooner removed by the President. On the
seventh of April of that year he gave his official bond for
the faithful performance of all the duties of his office, aind
the other two defendants named in the declaration were the
sureties in that bond.
The present suit is an action of debt upon that bond, and
the breaches assigned are as fbllows: (1.) That the marshal
did not make true returns of all public moneys which came
to his hands during the term of his office. (2.) That he did
not render his accounts quarter-yearly to the proper accounting officers of the treasury, with the vouchers necessary to
a correct and prompt settlement thereof, within three months
after each successive quarter. (3.) That he did not pay into
the treasury all the sums and balances of the public moneys
reported to be due upon the adjustment of his accounts at
the Treasury Department. (4.) That he did not pay into
the treasury, or deposit to the credit thereof, all the surplus
and emoluments of his office, which his half-yearly returns
showed to exist, beyond the allowances which he was authorized to retain. Verdict and judgment were for the plaintiffs, and the defendants excepted to two of the rulings of
the court, which give rise to the only questions of any considerable importance presented for decision in the record.
Apart from those questions, however, it is insisted by the
* 1 Stat. at Large, 515.

WATKINS V. UNITrED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

defendants that the court erred in overruling their demurrer
to the declaration. They demurred specially to the several
assignments of breaches in the condition of the bond, and
the court overruled the demurrer as to the first three
breaches, and sustained it as to the fourth, and both parties
acquiesced in the ruling and decision of the court. Subsequently the defendants pleaded performance, concluding
with a verification, and the plaintiffs replied, tendering an
issue, which was joined, and upon that issue the parties went
to trial.
Pleading over to a declaration adjudged good on demurrer, without any reservation, is a waiver of the demurrer, as
held by the repeated decisions of this court.*
I. Evidence was then introduced by the plaintiffs to show
that there was a balance due from the marshal under his
official bond, and the amount of the same, which evidence
consisted of the duly certified transcript of the adjustment
of his accounts by the accounting officers of the treasury.
Having introduced that proof the plaintiffs rested, and the
defendants moved the court to instruct the jury that the
plaintiffs were not entitled to recover upon that evidence,
because it is not averred or proved that the marshal had any
notice of the adjustment of his accounts, nor of the balance
found against him in the certified transcript; but the court
refused to instruct the jury as requested, and the defendants
then and there excepted to the ruling of the court.
Officers and agents of the United States who receive publie money, which they are not authorized to retain as salary,
pay, or emolument, are required by law to send their accounts quarter-yearly to the proper accounting officers of
the treashry, with the vouchers necessary to the correct and
prompt settlement thereof, within three months at least after
the expiration of each successive quarter, if resident within
the United States, or within six months if resident within a
foreign country. t
* Aurora City v. West, 7 Wallace, 92; United States v. Boyd, 5 Howard,
29; Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wallace, 42; Jones v. Thompson, 6 Hill, 621.
t 3 Stat. at Large, 723.

Dec. 1869.]

WATKINS V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Provision is also made that every officer or agent who
shall offend against that enactment shall be promptly reported to the President, and that he shall be dismissed from
the public service. Notice to the person required to account
is not necessary, as the whole subject is regulated by law.
Such officers and agents are required to render their accounts quarter-yearly, and when they do so they are charged
with what they have received, and credited with what they
have lawfully paid out or disbursed. Regulated as the whole
matter is by law, they are presumed to have, and in general
actually do have, full knowledge of the proceedings and of
the result, and it is believed that no case of hardship arising
from any surprise has ever oourred in the history of the
department.*
III. By the evidence set forth in the second exception, it
appears that the defendants claimed at the trial that a credit
should be allowed, in the adjustment exhibited by the plaintiffs of the marshal's accounts, of four thousand three hundred and seventy-five dollars and seventy cents, for tdvances
alleged to have been made by him in payment for work
done and expenses incurred by him in taking the census, in
pursuance of orders from the Secretary of the Interior.
They offered the paper called the statement of differences,
exhibited in the bill of exceptions, to show that the claim
had been duly presented at the treasury and disallowed, and
they also offered to prove that the disbursements were made
as charged in the account. Objection was made by the district attorney to the admissibility of the evidence, because
no account of the particulars of the claim was ever presented.
to the accounting officers of the treasury; and in making the
objection he introduced the three accounts current set forth
in the bill of exceptions. Both parties being heard, the
court excluded the evidence, because it did not appear that
the claim had been duly presented and disallowed, and the
defendants excepted.
* Walton v. United States, 9 Wheaton, 651; Smith v. United States, 5
Peters, 292.

WATKINS V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Marshals, like other officers, are required to render their
accounts quarter-yearly to the accounting officers, with the
vouchers necessary to the correct and prompt settlement
thereof, within the time prescribed by law. In the case
before the court it is not stated in the bill of exceptions, nor
is it shown in the record, that any statement of items was
furnished, nor that any vouchers were submitted to the
accounting officers in support of the claim for credit now
under consideration. Vouchers are required by the very
words of the act of Congress, and it is very clear that the
presentment of an account without items or vouchers would
be a useless act. Without such evidences before the accounting officers there could., not be any intelligent scrutiny
of the claim, nor any decision which would be satisfactory
to the claimant or to the public.
No evidence to prove a claim for credit can be admitted
at the trial, "in suits between the United States and individuals," unless it be shown that the claim has been legally
presented to the accounting officers of the treasury for their
examination, and that it has been by them disallowed, except under certain special circumstances, which do not exist
in this case. Independently of the express words of the act
of Congress, the question has repeatedly been before this
court, and has on every occasion been decided in the same
way.
The right of set-off did not exist at common law, but is
founded on the statute of 2 George II, c. 24, s. 4, which in
substance and effect provided that where there were mutual
debts between the plaintiff and the defendant ......
one
debt may be set against the other, and such matter may be
given in evidence under the general issue. Set-offs might,
ever after the passage of that act, be made, in a proper case,
between plaintiff and defendant, but it never extended to
suits between the government and individuals, and since
the decision in the case of' Uniled Slates v. Giles,* it has never
beeni pretended that, in suits " between the United States
9 Cranch, 236.

Dec. 1869.]

WATKINS V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

and individuals," any claim for credit can be admitted at
the trial, unless it appears that the claim had previously
been presented and disallowed, or was otherwise brought
within the fourth section of the before-mentioned act of
Congress. Whether the claim for credit is a legal or equitable claim, if it has been duly presented to the accounting
officers and has been by them disallowed, it is the proper
subject of set-off under that act, but it cannot be adjudicated
in a Federal court unless it has been so presented and disallowed.* The rejection of such a claim by the accounting
officers constitutes no objection to it as a claim for set-off, as
it cannot be admitted in evidence unless it has been presented and disallowed, as required by the act of Congress.t
Such claims as fall within that act are not specifically defined, and in view of that fact this court has held that the
act intended to allow the defendant the full benefit at the
trial of any credit, whether it arises out of the particular
transaction for which he was sued or out of any distinct and
independent transaction which would constitute a legal or
equitable set-off, in whole or in part, of the debt for which
he is sued, subject of course to the requirement of the act
that the claim must have been presented to the proper accounting officers and have been by them disallowed.1
Questions of set-off in the Federal courts arise exclusively under the acts of Congress, and no local law or usage
can have any influence in their deternination.ยง Claims
for credit cannot be admitted in suits between the United
States and individuals unless they have been duly presented
to the accounting officers of the treasury and have been by
them disallowed, because it is so provided by an act of Congress. I
United
j- United
4 United
United
Id. 370.
11United
Id. 492.

States v.Wilkins, 6 Wheaton, 143.
States v. McDaniel, 7 Peters, 11; United States v. Ripley, 7 Id. 25.
States v. Fillebrown, 7 Id. 48.
States v. Robeson, 9 Peters, 324; Gratiot v. United States, 15
States v. Eckford, 6 Wallace, 488; United States v. Gilmore, 7

BUTLER V. MAPLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Supported as the ruling of the court is by an act of Congress and by a course of decision extending through a period
of three-quarters of a century, it can hardly be expected that
JUDGmENT AFFIRMED.
it will be disapproved.

BUTLER V. MAPLES.
1. An authority to an agent to buy cotton in a certain region and its vicinity,
and to buy generally from whomsoever the agent, not his principals,
might determine-one having in view not merely a single transaction
or a number of specified transactions, but a class of purchasers and a department of business-makes a general agency to buy the cotton there,
and if the agent, holding himself out as the general agent, purchase
there under his power, he may bind his principal in violation of special
instructions not communicated to his vendors, and of which they had
neither knowledge nor reason to suspect the existence.
2. Where evidence showed that a region in the South which had been
previously in possession of the rebel army was evacuated by them,
and that the citizens generally had taken the oath of allegiance or obtained protection papers, the grant of a permit by a proper treasury
agent to purchase cotton authorized by treasury regulations, to be
granted only in cases where the country was within the occupation of
the military lines of the United States, raises at least a prmfacte presumption of the country's being within such occupation.
8. Where such permits were always in the same form, a printed one, and
on a suit against a party to whom one has been granted, the permit
granted to him has not been produced on call, the treasury agent who
granted it may properly state its contents from his knowledge and recollection of them.
4. A treasury permit to, a firm, to buy cotton, authorized them to buy
through their agent.

to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, the case was thus
During the late rebellion, cotton having been an object
whose acquisition was desired by the people of the North,
its purchase within the Confederate lines was resorted to
not unfrequently by a certain class of traders from the loyal
States. ,Such trading was unlawful as trading with an enemy,
ERROR

