SUPERVISORS V. DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

SUPERVISORS V.

DURANT.

An amendment by allowing, nune pro tunc, an entry, omitted at the proper
time by inadvertence, in the journal record of the clerk, of the issue
of a writ of peremptory mandamus; and an amendment by the marshal
to his return, so as to show that he had exhibited the original writ to
the party served, allowed as matters of common practice.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
The writ of error in this case, which was a proceeding of
the United States ex relatione Durant against the Board of
Supervisors of Poweshiek County, Iowa, brought up a petition, on the part of the relator, for an alternative writ of
mandamus to the supervisors of the county just named,
commanding them to levy a tax sufficient to pay a certain
judgment which he held against the county, or show cause
for not so doing; the order for an alt'ernative mandamus,
and the issuing of the same; a return demurrer to the returil, and an order for peremptory mandamus; application
for attachment against the supervisors for not obeying the
peremptory writ, and an order for attachment.
Several objections were taken to the proceedings on the
part of the supervisors, but no brief was filed in the case in
support of them, nor was there an appearance of counsel.
One of the objections was, that the writ- of peremptory
mandamus was issued without any order of the court baving been entered upon the journal record of the clerk. The
order was made by the court, and a note of it had been entered upon the clerk's docket, and also upon the judge's.
The court, on motion, allowed the entry to be made in the
journal nune pro tuae.
Objection was also taken to the return of the marshal,
that it did not appear that the original writ of the peremptory mandamus was exhibited at the time of the service of
same upon the supervisors. The court allowed the return
of the marshal to be amended by adding the words: "I
also exhibited the original writ to each of the foregoing
ERROR

Dec. 1869.]

WisE v. AkLLIS.
Statement of the case.

named persons so served, and I finally left it with said
Snow," who was chairman of the board.
Mr. Grant,for the relator, having submitted the case with
a few remarksMr. Justice NELSON subsequently delivered the opinion
of the court, to the effect, that as to the entry which the
court on motion allowed to be made in the journal nune pro
tune, as the matter was one which arose from the inadvertence of the clerk, the entry was but common practice and
matter of course, and that the amendment to the marshal's
return was of daily practice also.
The judgment for the writ of attachment was accordingly
AFFIRMED.

WISE v. ALLIS.
1. In giving notice, under the 15th section of the Patent Act of July 4th,
1836, of the names and places of residence of those by whom be intends
to prove a previous use or knowledge of the thing, and where the same

had been used, the party giving notice is not bound to be so specific as
to relieve the other from all inquiry or effort to investigate the facts.
If liefairly puts his adversary in the way that he may ascertain all that
is necessary to his defence or answer, it is all that can be required, and
he is not bound by his notice to impose an unnecessary and embarrassing
restriction on his own right of producing proof of wlhat he asserts.
2. Held, therefore, in a suit for infringing a patent for balancing millstones,
that when, in addition to the particular town or city in which such
large objects as millstones are used, the name and residence of the witness by whom that use was to be proved was also given, there was sufficient precision and certainty in the notice.

ON certificate of division of opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
The Patent Act of July 4th, 1836, referring to suits for
the infrinugement of patents, enacts by its 15th section that
"whenever the defendant relies in his defence on the fact
of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing
patented, lie shall state in his notice of special matter the
VOL. IX.

47

