Dec. 1869.]

THE SUPERVISORS

V.

DURANT.

415

Statement of the case.

TiE SUPERVISORS V. DURANT.
1. Mandamus from a Federal court to officers of a county in a State, to levy
a tax to pay ifiterest on bonds issued by the county on which a relator
has obtained judgment, and has no means of obtaining satisfaction but

by the levy of a tax, cannot be, in any way, controlled by an injunction
from a State court to those officers against a levy. Riggs v. Johnson
Counly (6 Wallace, 166), affirmed.
2. It makes no difference whether the relator have been made a defendant
to the proceeding in the State court for an injunction or not; nor whether
the injunction have issued before or after his suit in the Federal court
was begun.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Iowa, the case being thus:
In 1853, 1854, and 1858, the county judge of Washington
County, Iowa, submitted to the voters of that county propositions to subscribe certain sums, and issue bonds accordingly, to aid the making of certain railroads; and a majority
of the voters voted in favor of the propositions. The vote
required the levy by the county officers of yearly taxes to pay
the interest. The bonds were issued, and several of them
passed into the hands of one Durant. In April, 1860, certain
taxpayers of the county filed a bill against the board of
supervisors of the county; Durant, with other holders of
the bonds, afterwards appearing and opposing, to enjoin the
supervisors (the proper officers to lay taxes) from laying
any taxes to pay either principal or interest of these bonds;
the ground of the injunction being that the bonds were ille,
gal and void, and that the county officers had no authority
to levy and collect taxes to pay either the principal or interest of them. And the board of supervisors were enjoined
accordingly. The interest being now unpaid, Durant sued
the county in the Circuit Court of the United States for
Iowa to compel payment of it. The county set up, by way'
of plea, the injunction in the State court against it, and the
plea being overruled, and the ease being fully heard on a
case stated, judgment was given in the Federal court against
the county. Execution having issued without satisfaction,
an alternative writ of mandamus to levy a tax was asked for

THE SUPERVISORS V. DURANT.

.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the mandamus.

and obtained by Durant against the county. By way of
showing cause against a peremptory writ, the county here
again pleaded the injunction from the State court. The
plaintiff demurred; assigning as one cause among others,
that this court having jurisdiction to render the judgment,
had jurisdiction to enforce it, and that no State court could
prevent it. The demurrer being sustained, the county
brought the case here.
Mr. Ilenry Strong, for the plaintiff in error, argued elaborately, with numerous citations (f cases,* that the question
was one of jurisdiction, and that in the administration of the
powers of the Federal court, it was recognized as a fundamental principle, that the judgment of the State court is
binding upon the Federal court, when the State court had
jurisdiction of the parties and subject-matter, and the controVersy arises out of a contract created under the laws of
the State; that the Federal courts are powerless to reverse,
modify, or in any manner interfere with such a judgment of
the State court, and cannot relieve a party from obedience
to a writ issued thereon; that a conflict of jurisdiction was
always to be avoided; that it had accordingly passed into an
,unquestionable principle, that where a court has jurisdiction,
it has a right to decide every question that occurs in the
cause, and that whether its decision were correct or not, its
judgment, until reversed, was to be regarded as binding
upon every other court; that " these rules had their foundation not merely in comity, but in necessity; for that if one
court might enjoin, the other could retort by injunction, and
thus the parties be without remedy; being liable to a process for contempt in the one, if they dared to proceed in the
other."
le sought to distinguish the case from Riggs v. Johnson
County,t since there the relator was not a party to the suit
for injunction, while here he was.
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 583; Elliot v. Piersol, 1 Peters, 328;
Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Randall v. Howard, 2 Id. 585.
t 6 Wallace, 166.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SUPERVISORS V. DURANT.

417

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Grant, contra, submitted that there was nothing for
him to argue to sustain the judgment for the peremptory
writ; that the judgment on the coupons was conclusive, and
that no defence could be made to the action after that under
pretence of State court proceedings.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Since the decisions which have been made by this court
during the last four years, there is almost nothing in the
record now before us remaining open for adjudication. Indeed, it is not now contended that mandamus is not a proper
remedy in cases like the present, when a relator has obtained
a judgment, which can be satisfied only by the levy of a tax,
and when the proper officers of the municipality, against
which the judgment has been obtained, refuse, or neglect to
levy it. That it is a legitimate remedy has been ruled in
very many cases.* In such a case "the writ is" (to use the
language of the court in Riggs v. Johnson County) "neither a
prerogative writ, nor a new suit. On the contrary, it is a
proceeding ancillary to the judgment which gives the jurist
diction, and, when issued," it "becomes a substitute for the
ordinary process of execution, to enforce the payment of the
same, as provided in the contract." It is a step toward the
execution of the judgment, and necessary to the jurisdiction
of the court.
It is insisted, however, that even if the Circuit Court may
award a mandamus to aid in the enforcement of its judgments, the writ should not have been awarded in this case,
because the District Court of Washington County had enjoined the defendants against levying and collecting any tax
for the payment of the bonds and coupons, for a portion of
which the relator had obtained his judgment. This injunction the defendants pleaded, and to the plea the relator deThe Board of Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall et al. 24
Howard,' 376; Von Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 536; Supervisors v. United States, ex rel. State Bank, 1d. 435; Riggs v. Johnson Coun-

ty, 6 Wallace, 166; Weber v. Lee County, Id. 210; The Mayor v. Lord,
supra, 409.
VOL. IX.

27

418

THE SUPERVISORS v. DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinioh of the court.

murred. That such an injunction was wholly inoperative
to prevent the Circuit Court of the United States from enforcing its judgment by mandamus to the defendants to
compel them to levy the tax which the law authorized and
required, is no longer to be doubted. Its invalidity to work
such an effect has been placed beyond question by the rulings
of this court in the cases already cited. In Riggs v. Johnson
County, where it appeared that. an injunction had been obtained, in one of the State courts, upon the county commissioners, enjoining them against levying any tax to pay certain
municipal bonds and coupons, a mandamus was nevertheless
sustained to compel the levy of a tax, at the suit of one who
had obtained judgment in the Circuit Court for some of the
coupons. That case is full authority for the doctrine that an
injunction of a State court cannot control, or in any manner
affect the action, the process, or the proceeding of a Circuit
Court, not because the latter has any paramount jurisdiction
over State courts, but because the tribunals are independent
of each other. It is true that in Riggs v. Johnson County it
appeared the relator in the information, or suggestion for
the mandamus, was not a party to the injunction suit, while
the relator here was a party defendant. That, however, can
make no difference. The present relator, though made a
party with the other defendants, was not enjoined. The
decree upon the bill forian injunction was exclusively against
the board of supervisors of Washington, at the suit of others
than the relator. And had he been enjoined, it is not easy
to see how that fact could have 'limited the power of the
Circuit Court. We have already remarked that the true
reason why the injunction was not a bar to the mandamus
is, that the District Court of the State and the Circuit Court
are independent courts, and that neither can interfere with
the process or proceedings of the other. It would hardly be
contended that a State court can enjoin a defendant against
paying ajudgment which has been, or may thereafter be recovered in a Circuit Court of the United States. If it may,
Federal jurisdiction is a myth. It is at the mercy of State
tribunals. Yet there is no substantial difference in principle

Dec. 1869.]

THE

SUPERVISORS V. DURANT.

419

Opinion of the court.

between the allowance of such an injunction, and that of one
against a proceeding in aidof an execution; a mandamus
to levy an authorized tax to pay a judgment. The District
Courts of Iowa are independent of each other. Will the
injunction of one District Court limit the power of anoiher
District Court to enforce its judgment? To this no one
would hazard an affirmative answer. Certainly the Circuit
Courts of the United States are as exempt from State control by State courts, as are the District Courts of the State
from control by each other.
It is of course immaterial whether the' injunction of the
District Court of Washington County was before or after
the judgment obtained by the relator in the Circuit Court of
the United States, or whether before or after the institution
of the suit. It is not a question which court first obtained,
possession of the case. In the case of The Mayor v. Lord,*
the facts were that the plaintiffs in error had been enjoined
against levying a tax, before suit was brought in the Circuit
Court, yet it was held that the injunction was no sufficient
answer to the alternative mandamus commanding them to
levy a tax to pay the judgment afterwards recovered.
The plaintiffs in error are thus met at every point of their
case by decisions of this court heretofore made, decisions
which justify the court below in sustaining the demurrer to
their return to the alternative writ, and in awarding a peremptory mandamus.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

* Supra, 409.

