THE NONESUCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

R. Dermott, are indispensable parties. No relief can be given in
the case before us which will not seriously and permanently
affect their rights and interests. According to the settled rules
of equity jurisprudence the case cannot proceed without their
presence before the court. The objection was not taken by the
defendant, but the court should, sua sponte, have caused the bill
to be properly amended, or have dismissed it, if the amendment
were not made. Instead of this being done the cause was heard
and decided upon its merits. This was a manifest error. The
decree must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the court below. In that court both parties can take leave to
amend and can modify their pleadings so as to exhibit the case
as they may desire respectively to present it. If testimony be
necessary that also can be taken. We do not consider the supplement to the record filed in this court as before us. It was
not in the case in the court below. To recognize it here would
involve the exercise of original instead of appellate jurisdiction.
Whether it was competent for the receiver to buy at the sale
made by the trustees is a point upon which we b6xpress no
opinion. We have not reached it, and have not, therefore, had
occasion to consider the subject.
It is ordered that the decree of the court below be REVERSE),
and that the cause be remanded, with directions to that court
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.
to proceed

THE, NONESUCH.
The court has no jurisdiction of a cause transferred here from the Circuit
Court by consent of parties. The Alicia (7 Wallace, 572) affirmed.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Florida to the Circuit
Court for the same district. There had been no decree
rendered in that court, but consent of parties was given to
the transfer of the cause into this court. The record was
accordingly filed, and the case docketed. Upon the case

De. 1869.]

THE, GRAY EAGLE.
Statement of the case.

being called, it was submitted by Hr. Field, Assistant AttorneyGeneral for the United States, no opposite counsel appearing.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This court cannot acquire jurisdiction of a cause pending
in a Circuit Court by transfer. This was determined at the
last term in the case of The Alicia.* In that case the record
had not been filed, and a motion was made to docket and
dismiss. That motion was denied, on the ground that the
court could not take jurisdiction. In this case the record
has been filed, and the cause has been docketed here. The
order, therefore, must be that the cause be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

THE GRAY EAGLE.
1. A neglect by one vessel, on approaching another in the night, to show
proper signal lights, or her showing a wrong one, does not absolve such
other vessel, under the act of Congress of April 29th, 1864, prescribing
the lights which sailing vessels shall carry, from obligation to observe

the usual laws of navigation, or such reasonable and practicable precautions generally as the circumstances allow.

2. A loss equally divided between two vessels, on facts, set forth in the case,
showing fault in both.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Wis-

consin.
The owners of the schooner Perseverance filed a libel in
the District Court of Wisconsin against the schooner Gray
Eagle, for a collision in which their vessel had been sunk.
The collision occurred in the Straits of Mackinaw, soon after
midnight of the 23d of November, 1864, the night not having been a dark one; not so dark at least as that the sails of
vessels could not be seen for near a quarter of a mile. The
Perseverance had lost her lights in a storm, and was sailing
* 7 Wallace, 572.

*

