D)ec. 1869.]

THE GRAPESHO0T.
Syllabus.

present to the court their propositions of law, and require
the court to rule on them.
4. That objection to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to such ruling on the propositions of law as the
party may ask, must appear by bill of exceptions.
As the only ruling of the. court in this case that we can
examine seems to have been correct, the judgment is
AFFIRMED.

THE GRAPESHOT.
1. When, during the late civil war, portions of the insurgent territory were
occupied by the National forces, it was within the constitutional authority of the President, as commander-in-chief, to establish therein
provisional courts for the hearing and determination of all causes arising
under the laws of the State or of the United States, and the Provisional
Court for the State of Louisiana, organized under the proclamation of
October 20th, 1862, was, therefore, rightfully authorized to exercise
such jurisdiction.
2. When, upon the close of the war, and the consequent dissolution of the
court thus established, Congress, in the exercise of its general authority
in relation to the National courts, directed that causes pending in the
Provisional Court, and judgments, orders, and decrees rendered by it,
which, under ordinary circumstances, would have been proper for the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States, should be transferred to that court and have effect as if originally brought, or rendered
therein, a decree in admiralty rendered in the Provisional Court, as upon
appeal from the District Court, became at once, upon transfer, the decree of the Circuit Court; and an appeal was properly taken from it to
this court.
"8. Liens for repairs and supplies, whether implied or express, can be enforced in admiralty only upon proof made by the creditor that the repairs
or supplies were necessary, or believed, upon due inquiry and credible
representation, to be necessary in a foreign port.
4. Where proof is made of necessity for the repairs or supplies, or for funds
raised to pay for them by the master, and of credit given to the ship, a
presumption will arise, conclusive in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, of necessity for credit. The cases of Prattv. Reed and Thomas
v. Osborn explained.
5. Necessity for repairs and supplies is proved where such circumstances of
exigency are shown as would induce a prudent owner, if present, to
VOL. IX.

9

Tim

GRAPESI-OT.

[Sup. Ct.

General statement.
order them, or to provide funds for the cost of them on the security of
the ship.
6. The ordering by the master of supplies and repairs on the credit of the
ship is sufficient proof of such necessity to support an implied hypothecation in favor of the material-man, or of the ordinary lender of money
to meet the wants of the ship, who acts in good faith.
7. To support hypothecation by bottomry, evidence of actual necessity for
repairs and supplies is required, and, if the fact of such necessity be left
unproved, evidence is required of due inquiry and of reasonable grounds
of belief that the necessity was real and exigent.

THiS case, which in its original form, was a libel in the
District Court of Louisiana, on a bottomry bond, and, as
such, involved nothing but the correct presentation of the
principles of maritime law relating to that matter, and the
examination of a good deal of contradictory evidence, to
see how far the particular case came within them, presented subsequently, and in consequence of the rebellion
and the occupation by our army of the mere city of New
Orleans, while the region surrounding it generally was still
held by the Confederate powers and troops, a great question of constitutional law, the question namely, how far,
with that clause of the Constitution in force which declares
that-

"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish,"the President could establish a Provisional Court, and how
far Congress, on the suppression of the rebellion, could, by
its enactment, validate the doings of such a court, transfer its
judgments, and make them judgments of the now re-established former and proper Federal courts, from one of which,
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, the cause purported to be brought here.
The case-which in this court consisted accordingly of
three parts-to wit:
1. The matter of jurisdictiop,
2. That of the principles of maritime law in regard to
bottomry bonds,

Dec. 1869.]

Tim

GRAPESHO0T.

Statement in the opinion of the first point.

3.. The one of their application to the particular case, on
the evidence, is all stated in the opinion of the court, not
all consecutively in the opening of it, but all completely
enough and with distinctness from the opinion itself, in
three different parts, as the three respective topics arise to
be treated of.
Mr. C. Cushinq, for the owners of the ship, appellants; Mr.
T. J. Durant, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question to be examined in this case is one of
jurisdiction.
The suit, shown by the record, was originally instituted in
the District Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, where a decree was rendered for the libellant.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court,
where the case was pending, when, in 1861, the proceedings
of the court were interrupted by the civil war. Louisiana
had become involved in the rebellion, and the courts and
officers of the United States were excluded from its limits.
In 1862, however, the National authority had been partially
re-established in the State, though still liable to be overthrown by the vicissitudes of war. The troops of the Union
occupied New Orleans, and held military possession of the
city and such other portions of the State as had submitted
to the General government. The nature of this occupation and possession was fully explained in the case of The
Venice. *
Whilst it continued, on the 20th of October, 1862, President Lincoln, by proclamation, instituted a Provisional Court
for the State of Louisiana, with authority, among other
powers, to hear, try, and determine all causes in admiralty.
Subsequently, by consent of parties, this cause was transferred into the Provisional Court thus constituted, and was
heard, and a decree was again rendered in favor of the libellants. Upon the restoration of civil authority in the State,
2 Wallace, 269.

THE GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the first point.

the Provisional Court, limited in duration, according to the
terms of the proclamation, by that event, ceased to exist.
On the 28th of July, 1866, Congress enacted that all suits,
causes, and proceedings in the Provisional Court, proper for
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, should be transferred to
that court, and heard and determined therein; and that all
judgments, orders, and decrees of the Provisional Court in
causes transferred to the Circuit Court should at once become the orders, judgments, and decrees of that court, and
might be enforced, pleaded, and proved accordingly.*
It is questioned upon these facts whether the establishment
by the President of a Provisional Court was warranted by
the Constitution.
That the late rebellion, when it assumed the character of
civil war, was attended by the general incidents of a regular
war, has been so frequently declared here that nothing further
need be said on that point.
The object of the National government, indeed, was neither
conquest nor subjugation, but the overthroNV of the insurgent organization, the suppression of insurrection, and the
re-establishment of legitimate authority. But in the attainment of these ends, through military force, it became the
duty of the National government, wherever the insurgent
power was overthrown, and the territory which had been
dominated by it was occupied by the National forces, to provide as far as possible, so long as the war continued, for the
security of persons and property, and for the administration
of justice.
The duty of the National government, in this respect, was
no other than that which devolves upon the government of
a regular belligerent occupying, during war, the territory of
another belligerent. It was a military duty, to be performed
by the President as commander-in-chief, and intrusted as
such with the direction of the military force by which the
occupation was held.
* 15 Stat. at Large, 366.

Dec. 1869.]

TuE

GRAPESHOT.

133

Statement in the opinion of the second point.

What that duty is, when the territory occupied by the
National forces is foreign territory, has been declared by
this court in several cases arising from such occupation during the late war with Mexico. In the case of Leitensdorfer
v. Webb,* the authority of the officer holding possession for
the United States to establish a provisional government was
sustained; and the reasons by which that judgment was supported, apply directly to the establishment of the Provisional
Court in Louisiana. The cases of Jecker v. Montgomery,t and
Gross v. Jlarrison,t may also be cited in illustration of the
principles applicable to military occupation.
We have no doubt that the Provisional Court of Louisiana
was properly established by the President in the exercise of
his constitutional authority during war; or that Congress
had power, upon the close of the war, and the dissolution
of the Provisional Court, to provide for the transfer of cases
pending in that court, and of its judgments and decrees, to
the proper courts of the United States.
The case then being regularly here, we will proceed to
dispose of it.
The object of the original suit was the enforcement of a
lien upon the bark Grapeshot, created by a bottomry bond,
executed by her master, one Joseph S. Clark, in favor of
Wallerstein, Massett & Co., at Rio Janeiro, upon the 15th
of April, 1858.
The libel, filed by Wallerstein, Massett & Co., on the 3d
of July, 1858, alleged that the bark Grapeshot, lying in the
port of Rio, during the month of April, 1858, was in great
need of reparation, provisions, and other necessaries to
render her fit and capable of proceeding thence on her intended voyage to the port of New Orleans; and Joseph S.
Clark, the master of the bark, not having any funds or credit
there, and the owner of the said bark not residing in Rio,
and having no funds or credit there, that the libellants, at
j- 13 Id. 498, and 18 Id. 110.
20 Howard, 176.
: 16 Id. 164; see also United States v. Rice, 4 Wheaton, 246; and Texas
v. White, 7 Wallace, 700.

THE GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement in the opinion of the second point.

the request of Clark, advanced and lent to him $9767.40,
on the bottomry and hypothecation of the bark, at the rate
of 191 per cent. maritime interest; that Clark, as master,
did really expend the sum borrowed for the repairing, victualling, and manning of the bark in order to enable her
to proceed to New Orleans; that the bark could not possibly have proceeded with safety upon her voyage without
such repairs, and other necessary expenses attending the refitting of her; that she sailed and arrived safe at New Orleans on or about the 7th of June, 1858; and, that the bond
was, at the proper time, presented for payment to Clark,
who refused to discharge it.
Upon this libel, process was issued, and the vessel and her
freight were seized. Subsequently the vessel was sold under
an order of the court, and the proceeds, together with the
freight-money, amounting, in the whole, to $13,805.85, were
deposited in the registry on the 2d of September, 1858.
On the 1st of November, 1858, George Law, the claimant
of the vessel and freight, filed his answer, denying the necessity of the repairs and supplies, alleged to have been paid
for by the money raised upon the bottomry bond, and alleging fraudulent collusion between the master and the lenders,
to the prejudice of the claimant. The answer set out at
large the history of the Grapeshot, from the time she left
New York, on or about the 9th of February, 1857, to the
date of her arrival in New Orleans, on or about the 7th of
June, 1858. It represented that the bark, when she left
New York, was stout and staunch, well fitted, and supplied
for her then intended voyage to Constantinople, and for the
return voyage to New York; that, instead of returning from
Constantinople to New York, the master, Clark, embezzled
the freight earned in the voyage out, and engaged the vessel in voyages for his own benefit, until he caused her to be
stripped at Rio of her copper, which was replaced by secondhand and indifferent metal, owned by Clark, and put on her
in fraud of the claimant; that the dishonest practices of Clark
were well known at Rio, and that the libellants were fully
cognizant of them. The answer further denied the charge

Dec. 1869.]

THE GRAPESHOT.

135

Opinion of the court on the second point.

of the libel that the claimant had no funds or credit at Rio,
and averred that he had credit to procure and obtain the
necessary funds, and that the master was under no necessity to resort to the bottomry upon the vessel. The answer
further alleged that there was no inspection or survey of the
vessel with reference to the necessity for repairs; and that
the alleged expenses for repairs and provisions far exceeded
the sums actually expended, of all which the libellants had
notice.
Before proceeding to examine the evidence, taken under
these pleadings, it will be proper to consider the principles
of maritime law applicable to the case.
A bottomry bond is an obligation, executed, generally, in
a foreign port, by the master of a vessel for repayment of
advances to supply the necessities of the ship, together with
such interest as may be agreed on; which bond creates a
lien on the ship, which may be enforced in admiralty in case
of her safe arrival at the port of destination; but becomes
absolutely void and of no effect in case of her loss before
arrival.*
Such a bond carries usually a very high rate of interest,
to cover the risk of loss of the ship as well as a liberal indemnity for other risks and for the use of the money, and
will bind the ship only where the necessity for supplies and
repairs, in order to the performance of a contemplated voyage, is a real necessity, and neither the master nor owners
have funds or credit available to meet the wants of the
vessel.
Sometimes bonds, bearing only the ordinary rate of interest, or executed under circumstances more or less different
from those just stated, are called bottomry bonds, and are
enforced as such;t but the general description just given
embraces most instruments known under that name, and is
sufficiently accurate for the case presented by the record.
* Carrington v. Pratt, 18 Howard, 67; The Atlas, 2 Haggard, 57-8.

t The Trident 1 W. Robinson, 29; Brig Draco, 2 Sumner, 157; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 116, 120.

THE GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the second point.

There is no question in this case as to the character of the
bond; nor as to the safe arrival of the ship; nor as to the
validity of the bond if the lien can be held valid. The controversy turns on the question of necessity for repairs and
supplies, and for credit.
We are to consider, therefore, what degree of necessity
for supplies or repairs, and what degree of necessity for
credit in that form, will warrant a master in borrowing upon
bottomry.
Where the claim of the material-man is against the owner
only, and no privilege is given upon the vessel, no necessity
need be shown affirmatively. The master, in the absence
of known fraud, is fully authorized to represent the owners
in all matters relating to the ship; and it will always be presumed that supplies and repairs, ordered by the master, were
reasonably fit and proper, unless there is clear proof to the
contrary, and also proof of collusion by the material-man.
But something more is required when the claim is against
the ship itself. Such a claim can be asserted only as a lien
or privilege upon the vessel. And the rule is that such a
lien for supplies and materials, or for money advanced for
the ship, since it is created and exists without record, or
other public notice, can only be established upon circumstances of actual necessity.
Proof of absolute and indispensable necessity, however, is
not required in order to the establishment of such a lien,
where supplies and materials are furnished on the credit of
the ship, or of the ship and owners, in a foreign port. In
such cases, courts of admiralty do not scrutinize narrowly
the account against the ship. They will reject, undoubtedly,
Rll unwarranted* charges; but upon proof that the furnishing
was in good faith, on the order of the master, and really necessary, or honestly and reasonably believed by the furnisher
to be necessary for the ship while lying in port, or to fit her
for an intended voyage, the lien will be supported;t unless
* The Cognac, 2 Haggard, 887.
"t The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 448; Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters,
324; Brig Nestor, 1 Sumner, 78.

Dec. 1869.]

Tim,

GRAPES11OT.

Opinion of the court on the second point.

it is made to appear affirmatively that the credit to the ship
was unnecessary, either by reason of the master having funds
in his possession applicable to the expenses incurred, or
credit of his own or of his owners, upon which funds could
be raised by the use of reasonable diligence; and that the
material-man knew, or could, by proper inquiry, have readily
informed himself of the facts.*
It has been supposed that a more stringent rule than that
just stated was sanctioned by this court, at the December
Term, 1856, in the case of The Sultana, reported under the
title of Pratt v. Reed.t
In that case, coal for generating steam was supplied to the
Sultana, of Buffalo, in New York, at Erie, in Pennsylvania.
The master was sole owner, and known as such by the furnisher of the coal. The supplies were furnished from time
to time during a period of nearly two years, and formed the
subject of a running account of debit and credit extending
through that time. The evidence warranted the impression,
confirmed by the fact of sole ownership in the master, that
the credit was given to the master and not to the ship. It
was held that no lien attached to the steamer for the supplies
thus furnished.
We have no doubt that the case was rightly decided.
There are, however, expressions in the opinion which, separated from the case, appear to sanction the doctrine that, in
order to the creation of a lien on the vessel, express proof is
necessary of an unforeseen emergency creating a necessity
for supplies, and also of the existence of a necessity for
credit on the ship.
But that it was not intended by the court to establish any
other rule than that previously recognized, sufficiently appears from an opinion pronounced in the ease of The Neversink,.T by the learned judge who delivered its judgment in
the case of The Sultana. What was said in the former case
sufficiently shows that the latter judgment was intended only
The Fortitude, 8 Sumner, 246-7.
f- 19 Howard, 359.
$ Southern District of New York, November, 1867.

THF, GRAPES11OT.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the second point.

to affirm that there must be an apparent necessity for the
credit as well as an actual necessity for the supplies, and
that in the case before the court there was, in fact, no such
necessity as was essential to the creation of a lien upon the
steamer. It was not intended to deny that this apparent
necessity might be presumed from the necessity for supplies,
from the general authority of the master, and from general
good faith in the particular transaction.
It has been supposed also that the judgment of this court in
the case of The -BarkLaura, reported as Thomas v. Osborn,*
required affirmative proof of the necessity of credit to the
ship, in order to the creation of a lien on the vessel. The
court said, that " the limitation of the authority of the
master to cases of necessity, not only of repairs and supplies,
but of credit to obtain them, and the requirement that the
lender or furnisher should see to it that apparently such a
case of necessity exists, are as ancient and well established
as the authority itself." There is nothing in the language
which necessarily denies that proved necessity for repairs
may be received as presumptive evidence, sufficient, in the
absence of other information, to establish a case of apparent
necessity upon which the lender or furnisher may safely act.
And the citations from the Digest and the Consolato del Mare,
made to show the antiquity of the doctrine, seem to have
reference only to the condition of the ship, and not to the
condition of the credit of the owners or master.
We are satisfied that neither of the two cases just referred
to, when properly considered in connection with the proofs
before the court, can be regarded as in conflict with the rule
we have stated, which, prior to these decisions, had been
undoubtedly received upon the general consent of authorities as the true rule on the subject of implied hypothecation
for repairs and supplies, or for advances having the same relation to the ship.
We have been induced to state this doctrine of implied
hypothecation somewhat fully, not only because it seemed
* 19 Howard, 29.

Dec. 1869.]

THE

139

GRAPESHOT.

Opinion of the court on the second point.

desirable to correct a common misunderstanding of these
cases; but because of the close analogy in origin, effect, and
incidents between implied hypothecation and express bypothecation by bottomry.
It is, indeed, difficult to trace, either in reason or in the
authorities, any marked line of discrimination between them.
In the case of The Aurora, decided in 1816, this court said:
"To make a bottomry bond, executed by the master, a valid
hypothecation, it must be shown by the creditor that the
master acted within the scope of his authority, or, in other
words, that the advances were made for repairs or supplies
necessary for effecting the objects of the voyage, or the safety
and security of the ship. And no presumption should arise
in the case that such repairs or supplies could be procured
on reasonable terms with the credit of the owner, independent of such hypothecation."*
And it was further said, in the same case, that "it is incumbent on the creditor who claims an hypothecation to
prove the actual existence of those things which gave rise to
his demand; and if it appear on his own showing, or otherwise, that he has funds of the owners in his possession which
might have been applied to the demand, and he has neglected or refused to do so, he must fail in his claim."t
And this, undoubtedly, is the general rule also in respect
to implied hypothecation. The principles on which it rests
were fully explained and illustrated by Mr. Justice Story, in
1838, in the case of The Fortilude.t
It has been thought that a distinction between the lien
for repairs and supplies, or ordinary advances to pay for
them, and the lien of bottomry, may be found in that "superadded necessity" of which the learned judge speaks, in the
case last cited, as distinguishing the former from the latter.
There must, he said in substance, not only be a necessity
for the repairs, but a necessity for resorting to a bottomry
loan.ยง But this ruling must be taken with the qualification previously established by this court in the case of The
t lb. 105.
1 Wheaton, 96.
The Fortitude, 3 Sumner, 234.

38 Sumner, 232.

THE

GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the second point.

Virgin,* where it was held that "the necessity of the supplies
and repairs being once made out, it is incumbent on the
owners, who assert that they could have been obtained upon
their personal credit without bottomry, to establish that fact
by competent proofs, unless it is apparent from the circumstances of the case." It is only when such competent proofs
have been adduced, or the practicability of raising funds on
credit has been made to appear from circumstances, that the
lender is held responsible for failing to make due inquiry.
In the absence of such proofs or circumstances, an apparent necessity for credit by bottomry must be regarded as
established when the necessity for repairs is proved.
A more substantial distinction between the implied and
the express hypothecation may, perhaps, be found in the
greater diligence required of the lender on bottomry than
of the material-man in inquiry concerning the necessity for
repairs. The authorities on this subject are not easily reconciled; but they may be best harmonized, perhaps, in the
proposition that if no necessity for repairs is established a
bottomry bond will not be supported in the absence of proof
that the lender, after using reasonable diligence to ascertain
the facts, had good reason to believe, and did believe, that
the necessity really existed. And this is warranted by good
reason. The maritime law seeks equally the general promotion of commercial intercourse and the most complete
security in private transactions; and neither can well be
reconciled with the support of hypothecations which partake
largely of the nature of hazard, made where the owner cannot be consulted, at extraordinary rates of interest, agreed
upon by the master and the lender, and under circumstances
favorable to collusion and fraud, unless the lender be held
to reasonable diligence in inquiring as to the existence of
the facts of distress and necessity for repairs, which alone
warrant such transactions.
The doctrine on the subject of maritime hypothecation, so
far as it seems useful to consider it in this case, may be
summed up, we think, in these propositions:
* 8 Peters, A54.

Dec. 1869.]

THE GRAPESHOT.

141

Statement in the opinion of the third point.

1. Liens for repairs and supplies, whether implied or express, can be enforced in admiralty only upon proof made
by the creditor that the repairs or supplies were necessary,
or believed, upon due inquiry and credible representation,
to be necessary.
2. Where proof is made of necessity for the repairs or
supplies, or for funds raised to pay for them by the master,
and of credit given to the ship, a presumption will arise,
conclusive, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, of
necessity for credit.
3. Necessity for repairs and supplies is proved where such
circumstances of exigency are shown as would induce a prudent owner, if present, to order them, or to provide funds
for the cost of them on the security of the ship.
4. The ordering, by the master, of supplies or repairs upon
the credit of the ship, is sufficient proof of such necessity to
support an implied hypothecation in favor of the materialman, or of the ordinary lender of money, to meet the wants
of the ship, who acts in good faith.
5. To support hypothecation by bottomry, evidence of
actual necessity for repairs and supplies is required, and, if
the fact of necessity be left unproved, evidence is also required of due inquiry and of reasonable grounds of belief
that the necessity was real and exigent.
These principles are now to be applied to the case before
us. The pleadings make distinct issues upon the necessity
for repairs, the necessity for credit, and exercise of due diligence in inquiry by the lender.
On examining the proofs we find great contrariety in evidence, but we think it sufficiently established that Clark, the
master of the Grapeshot, if not guilty of actual fraud, was
very negligent of his duties as master.
It is alleged in the answer, and the allegation is supported
by credible testimony, that the voyage for which she was
originally destined was fr'orn New York to Constantinople,
and back. The bark sailed fi'om New York in February,
1857, and the voyage to Constantinople was accomplished

THE GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement in the opinion of the third point.

in due time; but, instead of obtaining a return freight for
New York, the master engaged the bark in a new voyage.
Ile purchased a cargo of salt, partly at Ivica and partly at
the Isle de Sal, one of the Cape de Verde Islands, and carried it to Rio, where he lay fbr some time, then returned to
the islands for another cargo of salt, with which he arrived
at Rio early in January, 1858, and remained there until April,
when he finally took a cargo for the United States; not then,
however, for New York, but for New Orleans.
There is some evidence that the new voyages were for
purposes of private speculation by the master, and this theory
receives partial confirmation from a letter written by him to
the owner from Constantinople, in which he admits that he
could obtain a paying freight for New York, but states that
he had determined to seek more profitable employment for
the vessel, in a voyage to Rio with salt. On the other hand,
it appears that nothing was kept secret from the owner, unless it be the fact of private speculation, for the letters of
the master show that he was advised from time to time of
all the movements of the vessel.
These transactions are adverted to only because, though
having no direct bearing upon the case, they cast some light
upon the subsequent conduct of the master.
The liabilities, except those charged under date of October 31st, 1857, which form the basis of the bottoniry bond,
were incurred, if incurred at all, while the ship remained at
Rio, from January 2d to April 19th, 1858- They consist
of charges for supplies and. repairs.
As to the necessity for repairs, the libellants have put in
the depositions of Clark, the master, and of the furnishers
at Rio. The respondent, on his side, has put in the depositions of several seamen who made part of the crew of the
Grapeshot.
The evidence of these witnesses cannot be reconciled.
The witnesses for the libellants are positively contradicted by
the witnesses for the respondent. Clark, for example, says
that on the last voyage to the Cape de Verde Islands and
back to Rio, the Grapeshot leaked badly, and that she lost

Dec. 1869.]

THE GRAPESHOT.
Opinion of the court on the third point.

nine hundred bushels of salt by the water from the leaking.
And, as to the leaking, his testimony is, to some extent,
corroborated by that of the repairer. But three of the crew,
examined on this point, testify positively that there was no
damage from leaking. As to injuries to the bottom of the
vessel, and the necessity for recoppering, Clark says nothing
in his deposition; he merely states that the accounts of the
material-men are just and correct, and they testify that the
repairs and supplies were necessary. On the other hand,
some of the crew testify that the repairs were quite unnecessary, that the copper put upon her was inferior to the copper taken off, and that the vessel when nominally repaired
was less staunch than before. There is more to the same
effect.
It is said that the evidence of the seamen is unworthy of
credit. It was certainly taken in a very loose and unsatisfactory way. But this was the fault of the commissioner,
and not of the witnesses. On the main points at issue their
testimony is clear and distinct enough, and we perceive no
reason for discrediting it.
We have examined it with care, and, taken in connection
with the whole evidence on both sides, it has satisfied us that
we cannot hold the necessity for repairs as established.
And this view is confirmed by the absence of any survey
or examination by public authority, or by competent and
disinterested persons for the purpose of ascertaining the necessity for repairs. In the case of The Cognac the bottomry
bond was authorized by the French Tribunal of Commerce
at the port of repair, and also by the British vice-consul
there, and yet the British Court of Admiralty disallowed
some of the items covered by the bond.* And in the case
of The Fortitude the bottomry bond was supported by evidence of a survey, called by the master and conducted by
persons skilled in nautical affairs. This was, as the learned
judge observed, "what every prudent master ought to do
under the like circumstances."
2 Haggard, 877, 387.

TitE GRAPESHOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the third point.

We do not say that such a survey is indispensable. No
doubt proof of the necessity and of the extent of the necessity may be otherwise made. But where the repairs alleged
to be made are extensive, and the necessity otherwise left in
doubt, the absence of such an examination will go far to
warrant the conclusion that no real necessity existed.
The evidence in respect to the bills for supplies covered
by the bottomry bond is not so strong as to the absence of
necessity for them. But there are some items included in
these bills, and particularly a very considerable item stated
as a general balance found due on a former account of the
consignee of the ship, which can hardly be regarded as subjects of bottomry.
Under these circumstances, if there were any proof affecting the lenders with actual knowledge of the facts, it would
be our duty to pronounce the bottormry wholly invalid. For
there is no evidence that they made any inquiry whatever,
and the maritime law holds them to reasonable diligence in
this respect.
But mere omission to make inquiry will not invalidate the
bond altogether. It may be good in part and void in part.
And where, as in this case, part of the repairs and supplies
have been shown to be necessary, and there is no reason to
impute fraud or collusion to the lenders, the bond, though
void as to the items of which the necessity is disproved or
not shown, may properly be held valid as to those items the
necessity of which is shown.
Under the view which we have taken of this case it is not
necessary to consider the evidence as to the necessity for
credit. It may be of use, however, to observe that while
there is evidence to show that the respondent, Law, was a
man of large means, and known as such by some persons in
Rio, the proof does not satisfy us that the sum named in the
bond could have been raised on his credit at rates more advantageous than were actually obtained, much less that the
lenders in this case could by any diligence of inquiry have
learned that this might be done. It is matter of history,
of which the court will take notice, that the year 1857 was

Dec. 1869.]

LATHAM'S AND DEMING'S APPEALS.

145

Statement of the case.

a year of financial revulsion and distress throughout the
greater part, if not the whole, of the commercial world, the
effects of which were still felt in the spring of 1858. In
such a time proof of the practicability of obtaining funds, in
a port so remote, upon the credit of the owner, should be
clear indeed in order to affect a lender upon bottomary with
the duty of inquiry.
On the whole the decree of the Circuit Court must be
and the cause must be remanded to that court
with directions to refer the accounts for repairs and supplies
to one or more commissioners experienced in commerce and
of known intelligence and probity, to ascertain, under the
instructions of the court, what portion of the repairs and
supplies, actually fhrnished to the ship, were really necessary, and for the amount thus ascertained and approved by
the court to enter
REVERSED,

DECREE FOR THE LIBELLANTS.

LATHAM'S AND DEMING'S

APPEALS.

An appellant has a right to have his appeal dismissed notwithstanding the
opposition of the other side.
THiESE were two appeals from the Court of Claims, in suits
against the United States. They had been passed at former
terms, and early at this one. It being alleged by Mr. Hoar,
Attorney-General, that they involved a question of public
interest-to wit, the legal tender question-which he desired, for some reasons which he stated, to have passed on
anew, he asked the court to fix a day at this term for argument upon them, it being stated by him that it was, in his
opinion, most desirable that the matter should not be postponed to the next term. After opposition and some delays
by Messrs. Carlisle and Merryman,Jbr the appellantsrespectively,
who denied that any question of legal tender was presented
in the records, and asserted that the cases, whenever called,
had been passed, on an understanding by themselves, the
VOL. IX.

10

