Dee. 1869.]

COPELIN

V.

INSURANCE. COMPANY.
Syllabus.

have been procured fbr that purpose, and that it was the
duty of the master to have transshipped the goods unless
he could repair his own vessel in season to complete the
voyage.*
Aside from that proposition, however, the court is of the
opinion that the repairs were finished in season to have enabled the master to transport the goods in his own vessel,
and it is clear that he was bound to do so unless he was prevented by some one of the causes expressed in the bill of
lading. Mere fear that he might encounter ice in the voyage, or that he might not be able to return till spring, if he
transported the goods to the port of delivery, constitutes 'no
defence, as he was bound by his contract to complete the
voyage without unnecessary delay, unless, as before explained, he was prevented by some one of the causes expressed in the bill of lading. His ship was fully repaired on
the third of November, and the navigation did not close
until the fifteenth of December following, which would have
given him ample time to deliver the cargo and complete the
voyage. Forty (lays would have been a long voyage, and
probably it might have been accomplished in thirty-five.
Viewed in any light, as showni by the evidence, the decree
of the Circuit Court is correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

COPELIN V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

1. If a party assuring a vessel which has been sunk, gives notice that he
abandons her, as for a total loss, when by the terms of the policy he
'has no right so to abandon, the company, even if not accepting the
abandonment, will nevertheless make itself liable as for a total loss, if

taking possession of the vessel under the provisions of the policy, for
the purpose of raising, repairing, and returning her, they do not raise,
repair, and return in a reasonable time. Holding the vessel for an unreasonable time is a constructive acceptance of the abandonment.

* Cannan v. Meaburn, 8 Moore, 141.

COPELIN V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. This is so, notwithstanding there is a provision in the policy that the acts
of the insurers, in preserving, securing, or saving the property insured,
in case of danger or disaster, should not be considered or held an acceptance of abandonment. The provision refers only to authorized acts.
3. When a court below makes a special finding, this court will not go into
an examination of the evidence on which it was founded to ascertain

whether or not it was right.

The finding is equivalent to a special

verdict.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri,
in which court Copelin brought suit against the Phmanix
Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance for $5000 on
the steamer Benton, valued in the policy at $45,000. The
policy contained these stipulations:

"In case of loss, the party insured shall use every practicable
effort for the safeguard and recovery of said steamboat, and. if
recovered cause the same to be forthwith repaired; and il case
of neglect or refusal, on the part of the assured, to adopt prompt
and efficient measures for the safeguard and recovery thereof,
then the insurers are hereby authorized to interpose and recover
the said steamboat, and cause the same to be repaired for account of the assured, to the charges of which the said insurance
company will contribute in proportion as the sum herein assured
bears to the agreed value in this policy. The acts of the assured
or assurers, or of their joint or respective agents, in preserving,
securing, or saving the property insured in case of danger or
disaster, shall not be considered or held to be a waiver or acceptance of abandonment."
The cause having been submitted to the court without a
jury, the court found that the boat insured struck a snag,
and sunk in the Missouri River, November 8d, 1865, and
that the injury was caused by one of the perils against
which the company had insured; that though the plaintiff
bad no right to abandon for a total loss, he gave notice that
he did so abandon; but the defendants did not accept such
abandonment; that they did, however, under the provisions
of the policy, take possession of the vessel for the purpose
of raising and repairing her, and returning her to the plaintiff; that accordingly they raised the boat, proceeded to

Dec. 1869.]

COPELIN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Argument for the insurance company.

repair her, and tendered her to the plaintiff, at the home
port, on the 9th of May, 1866, more than six months after
she had been injured. It was further found, that the repairs
and tender were not made within a reasonable time; that
had the boat been tendered earlier in the season, so as to be
used for the spring trade on the river, she would have been
worth $5000 more to the plaintiff; that when she was tendered to him, the repairs made were not sufficient to indemnify him for the injury the boat had sustained ; that it
would have required an expenditure of $5000 more to have
made the additional repairs necessary to complete the indemnity; and that the plaintiff refused to receive the boat
when she was tendered to him, but did not point out the
deficiencies in the'repairs. It was still further found that
the expense of raising and repairing the boat, actually incurred by the defendants, was $12,150.62, of which $1763.70
was the cost of the repairs made; that the boat, as tendered
to the plaintiff, was worth $12,000, and that when injured
she was worth $25,000. Upon the facts thus found, the Circuit Court gave judgment for' the plaintiff for the amount
named in the policy. And the insurance company brought
the case here.
Mr. J. 0. Broadhead,for the Company, plaintiff in error:
If there was no right to abandon as for a total loss, and
no acceptance of abandonment, the question becomes simply
one of damages under the policy. The vessel, when tendered to the owner, was worth $12,000. It would have taken
$5000 to put her in complete repair,-that is to say, to make
her as good as she was before she received an injury. This
would make $17,000. But the underwriters paid $12,150.62,
the expense of raising and repairing the vessel; and if they
are now, by the judgment of the court, required to pay, in.
addition, the amount of the policy, $5000, with interest, they
pay over $17,000 to the owner; in other words, they pay
more than a total loss; so that, although there was no right
to abandon, and no abandonment accepted, and no total
loss, the insurer is held liable for a total loss.

COPELIN V., INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is provided by the terms of the policy that the acts of
the assurer or assurers, or their agents, in preserving, securing, or saving the property insured, in case of damage or
disaster, shall not be considered or held to be a waiver or
acceptance of abandonment.
The expenses for raising and repairing the boat, $12,150,
were paid out by the underwriters, under the policy, in attempting to rescue the boat, "to the charges of which the
insurance company is only bound to Contribute in proportion as the sum assured bears to the agreed value in the
policy,"-that is, as $5000 is to $45,000, or one-ninth part
of those expenses,-the balance, of course, to be paid by the
boat; and the insurance company may make the expenses
in rescuing the boat for account of the assured. One-ninth
of $12,150 is $1350, leaving $10,800 due by the assured.
If from this is deducted $5000, the amount necessary to put
the boat into complete repair, there remains $5800 due,
which is more than the amount of the policy, if there was
no abandonment, no total loss.
The judgment below proceeds on an idea, that although
there was no total loss, yet the insurance company has rendered itself liable for a total loss; in other words, that there
was a constructive total loss; but how can it be said that
there is a constructive total loss when there is no right to
abandon, no acceptance of abandonment, and of course no
abandonment?
If the assurer has failed, after saving the boat, to put her
in complete repair, the most that can be said is that he has
failed to make good the loss to the assured, and that is all
the contract requires the assurer to do.
[The learned counsel then went into an examination of
the evidence on which the court below made its finding, to
show that it was the fiult of the assured that the boat was
not repaired and tendered to him in a reasonable time.]
Messrs. Glover, Shepley, and Rankin, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Nothing in this record requires us to look beyond the

Dec. 1869.]

COPELIN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

465

Opinion of the court.

special finding of the facts made by the court, or to do more
than determine whether, upon the facts found, the plaintiff
below was entitled to the judgment given.
As the sum insured by the policy was not greater than
the sum required to make the additional repairs necessary
to indemnify the plaintiff, it is difficult to perceive why, in
any aspect of the case, he was not entitled to the judgment
given. The defendants complain, however, that they have
been held liable as fbr a constructive loss, when there was
no right to abandon, and when the abandonment of which
the plaintiff gave notice was not accepted. Doubtless had
the defendants taken possession of the boat, as they were
authorized to do, by the provisions of the policy, and had
they raised, completely repaired, and returned her to the
plaintiff in a reasonable time, they could not have been held
liable for a total loss. It is an established fact that there
was no right to abandon when they did take possession of
the vessel. And it was expressly stipulated in the policy,
that the acts of the assured, or insurers, or of their joint or
respective agents, in preserving, securing, or saving the
property insured, in case of danger, or disaster, should not
be considered, or held to be, a waiver or acceptance of an
abandonment. It is well settled, however, that an offered
abandonment may be accepted, even whehl the assured has
no right to abandon, and, if accepted, it must be with its
consequences. And an acceptance need not be expressly
made. It may even be refused, and yet the insurers, by
their conduct, may make themselves liable as for a total
loss. Thongh, by the terms of the policy, these defendants
had a right to take possession of the boat, and repair her for
account of the plaintiff, yet this was a privilege accorded to
them only, that they might thus make indemnity for the
loss. Taking possession to make partial repairs, not amounting to indemnity, was not contemplated by the contract. It
was not authorized. Nor did the contract warrant taking
possession of the boat, and holding her for an unreasonable
time. The insurers were bound to repair and return without unnecessary delay. In holding longer than was necesvoL. ix.

30

COPELIN V.

INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sary for making repairs, they must be regarded as acting,
not as insurers, but as owners, for they had no other authority than that of owners for their failure to return within a
reasonable time. Their action was, therefore, a substantial
recognition and acceptance of the abandonment of which
they had been notified, for in no other way had they become
owners. On no other theory can this delay be considered
lawful. It is true the policy stipulated that the acts of the
insurers in preserving, securing, or saving the property insured in case of danger, or disaster, should not be considered
or held an acceptance of abandonment, but this manifestly
refers only to authorized acts. Retaining possession of the
boat an unreasonable time, and then offering to returh her
unrepaired, were not authorized acts, and consequently they
are unaffected by the stipulation. They must therefore be
regarded as constructive acceptance of an abandonment.
This is a principle asserted and well sustained by the authorities. In Peele v. The Suffolk Insurance Conpany,* where the
jury had found that the underwriters, who had taken possession of the stranded vessel, had not offered to restore her
in a reasonable time, the court said, " The underwriter has
his duties as well as his rights. If he take the vessel into
his possession to repair her, he must do it as expeditiously
as possible, in order that the voyage, if not compldted, may
not be destroyed. If he delay the repairs beyond a reasonable time, he forfeits his right to return the ship, and must
be considered as taking her to himself under the offer to
abandon." The principle, said the court, rests upon the
very nature of the law of insurance, which is a fair and
honest indemnity for loss. The same doctrine was asserted
in Reynolds v. The Ocean Insurance Conzpany,t and it was also
held that the underwriter's duty and liability in such a case,
are not varied by a clause in the policy of insurance, stipulating "that the acts of the assurers in recovering, saving,
and preserving the property insured in case of disaster, shall
not be considered an acceptance of an abandonment." Such
also was the ruling in a case between the same parties,J and
*7

Pickering, 254.

t 1 Metcalf, 160.

$ 22 Pickering, 191.

Dec. 1869.]

COPELIN V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

467

Opinion of the court.

in Norton v. The Lexinglon Fire, Life, and Marine Insurance
Company.* It is in our judgment sustained by sound reason.
The plaintiffs in error, however, insist that the doctrine
cannot be applied to the present case, because the court below found there was no right, under the facts shown on the
part of the plaintiff, to abandon for a total loss, although he
gave notice that he did so abandon, and that there was no
acceptance by the insurers of such an abandonment. But
this must be considered in connection with the other facts
found. It is equally a fact in the case, that the defendants
took possession of the boat, repaired her very insufficiently,
and after having held her an unreasonable time, offered to
return her. The legal effect of this we have seen. Taking
these facts together, the finding that the defendants did not
accept the abandonment which the plaintiff offered at a time
when he had no right to abandon, means no more than that
there was no express or avowed acceptance. This is quite
consistent with the judgment, that by their failure to return
the boat within a reasonable time, they made themselves
liable to pay the full amount of the policy.
We cannot follow the plaintiffs in error into an examination of the evidence, in order to inquire whether it was
not the fault of the assured that the boat was not repaired
and tendered to him in a reasonable time. Our judgment
is necessarily founded exclusively upon the finding of facts
by the court. That is equivalent to a special verdict, and
upon that we think the plaintiff below was entitled to the
judgment which he obtained.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* 16 Illinois, 235.

