D)ec. 1869.]

e 9PELHAM
V. RosE.
Statement of the case.

PELHAM V. RosE.
1. The seizure of the property of which a forfeiture is sought by proceedings
had under the act of Congress of July 17th, 1862, "to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes," is the foundation of the subsequent proceedings. It is essential to give jurisdiction to the court to
decree a forfeiture.
2. By the seizure of a thing is meant the taking of the thing into possession,
the manner of which, and whether actual or constructive, depending
upon the nature of the thing seized. As applied to subjects capable of
manual delivery the term means caption; the physical taking into
custody.
3. Where a writ of monition issued upon a libel of information, filed by the
United States against a promissory note, commanded the marshal "to
attach the note, and to detain the same in his custody until the further
order of the court respecting the same;" and the marshal returned the writ
with his indorsement thereon that lie had "arrested the property within
mentioned;" Held, in an action against the marshal for a false return,
1st, that due and legal service of the writ required the marshal to take
the note into his actual custody and control; and 2d, that the return of
the marshal signified that he had actually taken the note into his custody and under his control.
4. The court will decline to answer a question certified to it by the Circuit
Court when it rests upon an hypothesis.

ON certificate of division of opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana, the case
being thus:
An act of Congress, approved July 17th, 1862, entitled
"An act to seize and confiscate the property of rebels," thus
enacts:
"Sec. 6. All the estate and property, moneys, stocks, and
credits, of such person, shall be liable to seizure as aforesaid;
and it shall be the duty of the President to seize and use them
as aforesaid, or the proceeds thereof."
"Sec. 7. That to secure the condemnation and sale of any such
property, after the same shall have been seized, so that it may be
made more available for the purposes aforesaid, proceedings in
ren shall be instituted in the name of the United States, in any
District Court thereof, or in any Territorial court, or in the

P:ELHtAM V.

R:OSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

United States District Court for the District of Columbia, within
which the property above described, or any part thereof, may be found,
or into which the same may be brought, which probeedings shall conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in 'admiralty and
revenue cases;' and if said property shall be found to have belonged to a person in rebellion, the same shall be condemned as
enemies' property."
Under this statute the attorney of the United States for
the district of Indiana filed his libel of information against
certain "credits and effects" of one Henry Pelham (the
plaintiff), "that is to say, one promissory note for the sum
of $7000, dated March 1st, 1862, and due four years after
date, executed by Lewis Pelham to him the said Henry."
A writ of monition was issued, directed to a certain Rose,
the then marshal of the district, which, after referring to the
libel, ordered him to attach the note and detain the same
in his custody, and to cite all persons claiming the same, or
having anything to say why it should not be condemned
and sold, to appear on a day designated and interpose their
claims.
Rose made this return:
"In obedience to the within warrant, I have arrested the property within mentioned, and have cited all persons having or
pretending to have any right, title, or interest therein, as by
the said warrant I am commanded to do."
The District Court subsequently proceeded to try and determine the matters involved in the libel, and decreed,
1st. That for failing to appear, the default of all persons
interested in the note should be entered.
2d. That the charges of the libel should be taken as confessed.
3d. That the note should be condemned as forfeited to the
United States; and,
4th. That the clerk should issue a writ of venditioniexponag
to the marshal to sell the note at public auction.
This latter writ was accordingly issued and delivered to
the marshal, and was returned by him with a certificate that

Dec. 1869.]

PELHAM V. ROSE.
Statement of the case.

he had sold the note at auction to Lewis Pelham, who was
its maker, for $3000.
Henry Pelham now brought the action below against Rose
and his sureties for a false return to the writ of monition.
The declaration, after Stating such of the facts abovementioned as were pertinent, set forth that the marshal did
not, in obedience to the writ of monition, attach the note
therein described, nor seize the same by himself or deputy;
that the note was not even within sight of the marshal or of
any of his deputies at any time between the delivery of the
writ to him fbr execution and its return; nor was it, pending
the proceedings by libel, within the State of Indiana; but
that during this time, and for a period long after the entry
of the decree of confiscation, was in the custody and possession of the plaintiff in the State of Kentucky. Wherefore
(the declaration asserted) the return of the marshal was
wholly false, and the decree of condemnation was founded
upon a false return, and hence an action had accrued to the
plaintiff on the bond of the marshal.
The defendants demurred, and upon the argument of the
demurrer the following questions arose, upon which the
judges of the court were opposed in opinion:
"1st. Whether, upon the facts stated in the declaration,
it was material and necessary to the due and legal service
of the writ of monition, therein set forth by the marshal, that
he should have seized and taken into his custody and under
his control, the promissory note mentioned.
" 2d. Whether the return to the writ of monition, as set
forth in the declaration, must be construed to mean that the
marshal had actually taken into his custody and under his
exclusive control, the promissory note; and,
"3d. Whether, on the hypothesis that all the matters, as
set forth in the declaration, were true, the judgment and proceedings in the District Court, as therein stated, would estop
the plaintiff to maintain an action on the promissory note
against the maker."
Mr. Coburn, for the plaintiff in error, a brief of Messrs. Morrison, Dge & Harris being filed; Mr. Miles, contra.

PELHAM V.

ROSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the court as follows:
The act of July 17th, 1862,* contemplates the seizure of
the property, the forfeiture of which is sought by the proceedings taken under its provisions. It says so in express
terms. In one section it makes it the duty of the President
"to cause the seizure" of the estate and property, money,
stocks, and credits of the persons designated therein. In
another section it declares that the like property of persons
engaged in armed rebellion against the United States, or in
aiding or abetting the rebellion, " shall be liable to seizure,"
and imposes a similar duty upon the President to seize and
use it. And in a third section it provides, that to secure the
condemnation and sale of the property, "after the same shall,
have been seized," proceedings shall be instituted, in the name
of the United States, in any District Court thereof, or in any
Territorial court, or in the District Court for the District of
Columbia, within which the property, or any part thereof,
may be found, or, if movable, may first be brought; and
that such proceedings shall conform, as nearly as possible,
to proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases.
The seizure of the property, as thus seen, is made the
foundation of the subsequent proceedings. It is essential to
give jurisdiction to the court to decree a forfeiture. Now,
by the seizure of a thing is meant the taking of a thing into
possession, the manner of which, and whether actual or constructive, depending upon the nature of the thing seized.
As applied to subjects capable of manual delivery, the terni
means caption; the physical taking into custody.
In the case at bar, a visible thing, capable of physical
possession, is the subject of the libel. It is the promissory
note of Pelham which constitutes the res, against which the
proceeding is instituted, and not " a credit," or debt, which
the note is supposed by the defendants' counsel to represent.
Whether by any proceedings under the act of July, 1862,
the indebtedness of a maker on a negotiable promissory
* 12 Stat. at Large, 690,

5, 6, and 7.

Dec. 1869.]

P:ELHIAM

V. R OSE.

Opinion of the court.

note, before its maturity, could be reached without the possession of the note itself, is not a question presented for our
consideration. It is sufficient that the object of the present
libel is to reach the note itself. This appears at every stage
of the proceedings; in the information; in the monition to
the marshal; in his return; in the decree of the court; and
in the sale made.
To effect its seizure, as required by the act, it was, therefore, necessary for the marshal to take the note into his
actual custody and control. And such was the purport of
the command of the writ of monition. The writ describes
the note, and the command to the marshal is, "to attach the
note, and to detain the same in your custody until the further
order of the court respecting the same,"-language which is
inconsistent with any service other than that made by physically taking the note into his possession and control. This
form of command is usually adopted in warrants to the marshal in cases of municipal seizure. "On receiving it" (the
warrant), says Conkling in his treatise, " it is the duty of
the marshal to arrest the property seized by taking it into his
custody."* The term arrest is the technical term used in
admiralty process to indicate an actual seizure of property.
And the return of the marshal to the writ, that he has "iarrested the property within mentioned," signifies in apt and
technical language that he has actually taken the property
into his custody and under his control.
The first and second questions certified to us must, therefore, be answered IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
The third question rests upon an hypothesis, and we must
DECLINE TO ANSWER it until it has lost its hypothetical character and become involved in actual controversy.
* Fourth edition, p. 624.

