Dec. 1869.]

HOE v. WILSON.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.

In sequence to the preceding case should be reported another, an offspring from it, and like it, from the Supreme
Court of the District, the case of

HOE

ET AL. V. WILSON.

1. Where certain heirs at law seek to set aside a sale of their ancestor's
realty made under a decree of a competent court ordering, at a creditor's instance, such sale for the payment of a debt due him, they should
make the creditor on whose application the sale was made a party. All
the heirs also should be parties. It is not enough that those who bring
the suit profess to file their bill "for themselves and the other heirs at
law," these last being known and not numerous.
2. This court will reverse and remand a case thus defective as to parties,
although this deficiency have not been made a point at the bar below.
8. It will not consider a case upon documents not in the cause below, though

filed here by consent as if returned under a writ of diminution.
THE decree of the Supreme Court of the District ordering a
sale of Miss Dermott's real estate, which the affirmance in the
preceding case adjudged was rightly made, having been executed and a sale made, and the property bought by Wilson, who
as stated in the report of the case had been appointed receiver
of its rents, Hoe, there also mentioned as an heir-at-law of Miss
IDermott, with eight others, her heirs also, who joined with him,
filed a bill against this Wilson to set aside the purchase, the
ground of their bill being that he had purchased below the real
value of the property, and that having been receiver, he was
incompetent, with proper regard to those rules which equity
places around all persons standing in positions of confidence, to
purchase at all. The nine heirs who thus filed the bill professed
to file it "fbr themselves and the other heirs at law," averring
that there were such others, but not naming them nor saying
anything as to their number, nor indeed anything else about
them. The testimony showed the existence of four, and gave
the names of two in full, with a statement that the full names
of the two others were not remembered, but that in their names
occurred, in the one, "O'Neal," and in the other, "Jane." The

HoE V.

WILSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

post-office address of the first two was given, and of the other
two it was stated that they lived "somewhere in Alabama, postoffice address not remembered."
Jones, the creditor at whose instance the property was sold,
and whose debt was to be paid by the proceeds of the sale, was
not made a party either.
The court below heard the case on its merits, and dismissed
the bill ; no objection being made there at the bar on the ground
of defect of parties. The complainants brought the case to this
court, and the record being here the counsel on both sides agreed
that there should be added to the record of the principal case,
to have the same effect as if returned under a writ of diminution, the fbllowing proceedings in that cause, to wit, "the final
decree of sale, the trustees' report of sale, the exceptions filed
to the ratification of the sale and the order of the court thereon,
the order of ratification of' the. sale, the deed of the trustee to
the purchasert"
Messrs. lelloy and Brent, for the appellants, contended that
upon obvious principles a receiver should not be permitted to
bid fbr the lands of which he has previously had the management, citing numerous cases, and especially Anderson v. Anderson.*
Messrs. Cox and Davidge, for the appellees, denying this proposition and arguing on it contra, contended that decision on the
point could not be made, because the bill was defective in parties. The suit could not be instituted by some in the names of
others; those not joined not being stated to be unknown, nor
the case otherwise one of that class recognized in the books,
for a suit for the benefit of parties not joined; as where parties
are too numerous, or are members of a large association or of
a large class.
To this it was replied that this point had not been taken below,
and could not be first taken here.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The case presented by the record, so far as it is necessary to
state it, is as follows: The complainants represent themselves to
be heirs-at-law of Ann R. Dermott, deceased, and allege that
9 Irish Equity Reports, 24.

Dec. 1869.]

HtOE V.WILSON.
Opinion of the court.

they bring their bill against the defendant "for themselves and
the other heirs-at-law of the said Ann R. Dermott." The bill
alleges that by virtue of a decree of sale in the case of Zephaniah Jones v. Stringfellow and others, wherein these complainants
and others were defendants, Wilson, the defendant in this suit,
became the purchaser of certain real estate of the said Ann R.
Dermott, deceased, which is particularly described; that this purchase was made by Wilson on the 2d of January, 1867, from the
trustees named in the decree; that long prior to the purchase,
and prior to the rendition of the decree under which the sale
was made, Wilson was, by order of the court in that case, appointed receiver of the estate of Ann R. Dermott, with authority to manage and rent the property, which appointment he
accepted, and executed his bond as such receiver, which was accepted and approved; that he collected a large amount of rents
as such receiver; that he was receiver down to the time of the
purchase in question, and still continued to be such. It is
averred that by reason of his fiduciary relation to the property
in question he was incapacitated to purchase; that the sale is
void at the election of the complainants; and that they elect to
avoid it, and to have the property resold at the risk of Wilson.
The bill prays for appropriate special, and for general relief.
Wilson answered. The answer admits the decree of sale, the
sale by the trustees appointed to make it, the purchase by Wilson, and that he was receiver as alleged in the bill. It denies
that he was incapacitated to buy, and insists that the sale was
valid. It avers that lie has paid all the purchase-money, and
received a deed for the property.
We pass by the questions whether the proper remedy of the
complainants was not' by appeal from the order of the court below confirming the sale, and whether the bill is not fatally defective on its face in not averring such confirmation before it
was filed. These points have been fully argued, but the view
which we take of the case renders it unnecessary to decide
them. The defence that the validity of the sale is res judicata by
reason of the proceedings of these complainants, touching the
order of confirmation, is not set up in the answer, and cannot,
therefore, be considered.
But Zephaniah Jones, the complainant in the suit in which
the decree of sale was made, and the other heirs-at-law of Ann

THE NONESUCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

R. Dermott, are indispensable parties. No relief can be given in
the case before us which will not seriously and permanently
affect their rights and interests. According to the settled rules
of equity jurisprudence the case cannot proceed without their
presence before the court. The objection was not taken by the
defendant, but the court should, sua sponte, have caused the bill
to be properly amended, or have dismissed it, if the amendment
were not made. Instead of this being done the cause was heard
and decided upon its merits. This was a manifest error. The
decree must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the court below. In that court both parties can take leave to
amend and can modify their pleadings so as to exhibit the case
as they may desire respectively to present it. If testimony be
necessary that also can be taken. We do not consider the supplement to the record filed in this court as before us. It was
not in the case in the court below. To recognize it here would
involve the exercise of original instead of appellate jurisdiction.
Whether it was competent for the receiver to buy at the sale
made by the trustees is a point upon which we b6xpress no
opinion. We have not reached it, and have not, therefore, had
occasion to consider the subject.
It is ordered that the decree of the court below be REVERSE),
and that the cause be remanded, with directions to that court
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.
to proceed

THE, NONESUCH.
The court has no jurisdiction of a cause transferred here from the Circuit
Court by consent of parties. The Alicia (7 Wallace, 572) affirmed.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Florida to the Circuit
Court for the same district. There had been no decree
rendered in that court, but consent of parties was given to
the transfer of the cause into this court. The record was
accordingly filed, and the case docketed. Upon the case

