THE JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

counsel of the government, and the court, that if any such
question were properly in them it should abide the decision
to be made in .lepburnv. Griswold,* then under consideration by the court-a day was fixed for the hearing of the
cases. When the day arrived the cases were postponed,
owing to another case being before the court. Being finally
called, Mr. L. S. Chatfield, with whom was Mr. Merryman,for
the appellants respectively, offered a stipulation signed by them
in behalf of their clients, and moved to dismiss the appeals.
The Attorney- General opposed the motion; stating that it was
a surprise to him; that he was now prepared to argue the
cases, and desired to do so.
After some conference on the bench, where the judges did
not seem to be entirely unanimous, the court withdrew for
consultation. On their return, the CHIEF JUSTICE announced it as the unanimous judgment of the court that the
appellants had a right to have their appeals dismissed, and

they were both

DISMISSED ACCORDINGLY.

THE JoHNSo;.
Steamers navigating in crowded channels and in the vicinity of wharves,
must be run and managed with great caution, and with a strict regard
to the established rules of navigation, including that one which requires
them, when approaching from opposite directions, to put their helms to
port. If they are about to attempt any manoeuvre not usual and clearly
safe, such as running in under the bows of another vessel in motion,
they must not only sound their whistle or give the other proper signal,
but before attempting the manoeuvre must be certain also that the signal
was heard and understood by the approaching vessel.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in a case of collision, the case being this:
All steamers navigating the crowded waters of the New
York harbor, were bound in 1863 to obey the following
RULES O, NAVIGATION, prescribed originally for the conduct
of passenger steamers, but adopted by other vessels.
APPEAL

The Legal Tender Case, 8' Wallace, 603.

Dec. 1869.]

THE JOHNSON.
Statement of the case.

"RULE 1. When steamers meet 'head and head,' it shall be the

duty of each to pass to the right, or on the larboard side of the
other, and either pilot, upon determining to pursue this course,
shall give as a signal of his intention one short and distinct
blast of his steam-whistle, which the other shall answer promptly
by a similar blast of the whistle. But if the course of each
steamer is so far on the starboard of the other as not to be considered by the rules as meeting 'head and head,' or if the vessels
are approaching in such a manner, that passing to the right (as
above directed), is unsafe, or contrary to rule, by the pilot of
either vessel, the pilot so deciding shall immediately give two
short and distinct blasts of his steam-whistle, which the other
pilot shall answer by two similar blasts of his whistle, and they
shall pass to the left, or on the starboard side of each other.
"RULE 2. When steamers are approaching each other in an
oblique direction, they will pass to the right, as if meeting 'head
and head,' and the signal by whistle shall be given and answered
promptly, as in that case specified.
" RULE 3. If,when steamers are approaching each other, the
pilot of either vessel fails to understand the course or intention
of the other, whether from the signals being given or answered
erroneously, or from other cause, the pilot so in doubt shall immediately signify the same by giving several short and rapid
blasts of the steam-whistle, and if the vessels shall have approached within half a mile of each other, both shall be immediately slowed to a speed barely sufficient for steerage-way, until
the proper signals are given, answered, and understood, or until
the vessels shall have passed each other.
"RULE 4. The signals, by blowing of the steam-whistle, shall
be given and answered by pilots, in compliance with these rules,
not only when meeting ' head and head,' or nearly so, but at all
times when passing or meeting, at a distance within half a mile
of each other, and whether passing to the starboard or larboard.
"IN. B. The foregoing rules are to be complied with in all
cases, except when steamers are navigating in a crowded channel
or in the vicinity of wharves; under these circumstances steamers must be run and managed with great caution, sounding the
whistle as may be necessary, to guard against collisions or
other accidents."
With these rules in force, the Burden, a small propeller

TH

JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tug, was towing up the East River from Atlantic Dock,
Brooklyn, the canal boat Kate McCord, heavily loaded with
wheat, she being fastened to the larboard side of the propeller. The propeller with her tow was on her way from
the Atlantic Dock, on the Brooklyn side of the East River,
to Pier 44, on the New York side of it, and in a direct line
from the dock to the pier. The tide was the middle of the
ebb, running strongly down. In consequence of the shape
of the land from Catharine Ferry to Atlantic Dock, there is
a strong eddy tide which runs up along the Brooklyn shore
to the upper side of the Fulton Ferry slip, when the tide is
running ebb, and tugs bound up seek that eddy tide for the
double reason that they get the aid of the eddy tide instead
of the opposition of the ebb tide, and they avoid vessels
bound down, leaving to them the advantage of the ebb tide
and the breadth of the river. The propeller was, accordingly, going slowly up in that eddy tide 100 to 150 feet from
the Brooklyn piers, and when she had nearly reached the
ferry slip she saw the Scranton, a large side-wheel steamer,
with an empty barge on each side, coming rapidly down the
river, out towards the middle of the river just above the
IFulton Ferry.
The Scranton, when about opposite the upper part of the
Fulton Ferry slip, starboarded her helm, and at a rapid rate
swept in, in a curve toward the Brooklyn shore, with the
purpose of running in under the bow of the propeller, and
picking up a boat lying on the lower side of the lower pier
of the Fulton Ferry slip.
The propeller, seeing the steamer thus coming dangerously towards her, blew one whistle, which is the regulation
signal to indicate that she intended to keep to the right, and
those on the steamer testified that she blew two whistles,
which is the regulation signal that would have indicated that
she was going to the left; but the men on the propeller did
not hear the two whistles, and of course gave no answering
signal. Indeed, had they heard them, the men on the propeller, as it rather seemed, could not at that time have done
anything to prevent the collision, situated as the propeller

Dec. 1869.]

THE JOHNSON.
Diagram of the East River.

0€
0

THE JOHNSON.

0

[Sup. Ct.

Case restated in the opinion.

was. The result was that the steamer ran directly into the
canal boat, which was lashed to the propeller, and did her
and her cargo serious injury; also injuring herself.
The owners of the canal boat libelled both the steamer and
the propeller to recover her damage by the collision, alleging
a joint or several negligence; and the owners of the steamer
libelled the propeller to recover her damage by the collision,
alleging negligence of the propeller alone.
The District Court held that both steamers were in fault,
and decreed against them jointly for the whole loss. The
claimants of both vessels appealed to the Circuit Court.
That court reversed the decree of the District Court so far
as it affected the propeller, and charged the whole loss upon
the steamer, on the ground she was wholly in fault.
From this decree the claimant of the steamer appealed to
this court, and the libellants did likewise. The evidence was
somewhat voluminous, but not very conflicting on the material points.
Mr. Fithian,for the steamer; Mr. Benedict, for the propeller;
Mr. Van Santvoord,for the canal boat.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Damages were claimed in this case on account of a collision which occurred in East River, on the ninth of December, 1863, between the canal boat Kate McCord, and the
steamboat Joseph Johnson, whereby the canal boat and her
cargo, consisting of seven thousand bushels of wheat, were
greatly injured.
Prior to the commencement of her trip, the canal boat was
lying in the Atlantic basin at Brooklyn, and the proofs show
that she was heavily laden, and that she was taken in tow
there by the steam propeller William F. Burden, to be towed
up the river to pier forty-four, on the New York side of the
river, for the purpose of discharging her cargo and delivering the same on board of the ship Whampoa, then lying at
that pier. She was lashed to the port side of the propeller,
and when the collision occurred, the propeller with the canal
0

Dec. 1869.]

THE JOHNSON.
Case restated in the opinion.

boat in tow was proceeding up the river to the place where
her cargo was to be transshipped.
Loss was sustained by the owner of the canal boat and
by the owners of her cargo, and they joined in the same
libel, claiming damages, as well of the propeller to which
the canal boat was lashed as of the steamboat Joseph Johnson, which collided with the canal boat, and which was-the
immediate cause of the injury both to the canal boat and her
cargo.
Lashed to the propeller as the canal boat was, she was as
entirely under the control of the propeller as if she had been
a part of that vessel. When they were proceeding on their
course up the river, the Johnson, with two unladen canal
barges in tow, one on each side, started from Corear's Htook,
on the New York side, on a trip down the river, inclining,
however, towards the Fulton Ferry dock, on the Brooklyn
side, to a point just below the lower slip of that dock, where
she intended to take another boat in tow. When the boats
started on their respective trips it was about eleven o'clock
in the forenoon, and the tide at that time was half ebb, with
a strong current in the channel of three miles an hour.
Vessels of that description proceeding up the river on that
side, in that state of the tide, usually keep close to the shore,
as they by that means avoid the downward current in the
stream, and get the aid of the eddy or reflex tide near the
shore, which facilitates their progress, and the evidence
shows that the propeller, with the canal boat in tow, was proceeding up the river along that shore in the track usually
pursued by steamtugs in performing towage service under
those circumstances.
Boats descending the river at ebb tide usually select the
middle of the channel, as their speed is much aided by the
current, and the witnesses generally concur that the Johnson,
until just prior to the collision, was proceeding down the
river in a course much nearer the centre of the stream than
the ascending boat with her tow lashed to her port side.
. Aided by the current the speed of the descending boat was
seven miles an hour; but the propeller with the canal boat

THE JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in tow was not able, in ascending the river, to make more
than three or four miles an hour.
Whatever may have been the cause, it is admitted by the
master of the Johnson that he did not see the propeller.until
she was opposite the slip next above the ferry slip, and he also
states that the propeller, at that time, was about the same
distance below the ferry that the Johnson was above that
point, and of course they were not far distant from each
other.
They were approaching at a combined speed of ten or
eleven miles an hour, but not exactly from opposite directions
nor on lines precisely parallel, as the Johnson was nearer to
the centre of the stream than the propeller, and her course
was inclining towards the Brooklyn shore. Strong doubts,
however, are entertained whether the vessels would have
collided if both had kept their course, but it is not necessary
to decide that point, as it is conceded that the helms of both
were changed before the collision occurred.
Appearance was regularly entered by the owners of the
steamers, and the claimants of each steamer filed separate
answers, denying that their vessel was liable for the injury,
but the District Court held that both vessels were in fault,
and entered a joint decree for the libellants in conformity
with the allegations of the libel. Dissatisfied with the decree the claimants of the respective steamers appealed to the
Circuit Court, where all the parties were again heard, and
the Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District Court
as against the Johnson, but reversed it as against the propeller, holding that the Johnson was wholly in fault for the
collision. Whereupon the claimants of the Johnson appealed
to this court, and the libellants also appealed from so much
of the decree as held that the propeller was not in fiult.
All persons engaged in navigating vessels upon navigable
waters, whether upon the seas or in rivers or harbors, are
bound to observe the rules of navigation recognized and
approved by the courts in the management of their vessels
on approaching a point where there is danger of collision.

Dec. 1869.]

THE JOHNSON.
Opinion of the court.

Such rules are ordained and administered to prevent collision and to afford security to life and property exposed to
such dangers, and experience shows that if they are seasonably observed and strictly followed such disasters would seldom occur.*
Rules of navigation are obligatory upon vessels approaching each other from the time the necessity for precaution
begins, and they continue to be obligatory as the vessels advance, so long as the means and opportunity to avoid the
danger remain. They are not strictly applied to a vessel
which is otherwise without fault in cases where the proximity
of the vessels is so close that the collision is inevitable, and
they are wholly inapplicable when the vessels are so distant
from each other that measures of precaution have not become necessary to prevent a collision. But precautions, in
order to be effectual, must be seasonable; and if they are
not so; and a collision ensues because they were not adopted
earlier, it is no defence to show that they were adopted as
soon as the necessity for the precaution was perceived, nor
to prove that at the moment of the collision it was too late
to render such a precaution of any service. Unless precautions are seasonable they are of little or no use, as it will
seldom or never happen that a collision could be avoided at
the time when it occurred.t
Steam vessels, independently of the sailing rules enacted
by Congress, are regarded in the light of vessels navigating
with a fair wind, and are always under obligations to do
whatever a sailing vessel going free or with a fair wind
would be required to do under similar circumstances.t
Prior to the passage of the act of Congress prescribing
sailing rules, as well as since that time, steam vessels approaching each other from opposite directions, so as to involve risk of collision, were required to put their helms to
port so that each may pass on the port side of the other, and
the court is of the opinion that that rule is applicable in this
* Steamship v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 383.

t- The Governor, 1 Clifford, 97.

$ St. John v. Paine, 10 Howard, 583.

154

THE JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

case, although the collision occurred before that act of Congress went into operation.*
Suppose it to be true that these vessels were approaching
each other on intersecting lines, so that they would have collided if they had not changed their course, then it is clear in
view of the circumstances that each was bound to port their
helm and pass to the right, as there was nothing to prevent
them from complying with that well-known rule of navigation. They were navigating in the daytime and in good
weather, and they had an unobstructed view of what was
before them; but the Johnson, instead of complying with
that rule of navigation, put her helm to starboard for the
purpose of crossing to the Brooklyn side and taking another
boat in tow, which was lying in the dock, just below the
lower slip of the Fulton Ferry. Descending the river, as the
Johnson was, at the rate of seven miles an hour, she obeyed
her helm readily, and aided by the reflex tide as she left the
stream she came round quickly so as to head towards the
shore, and as she advanced on her new course she struck
the canal boat on her port side and caused the injury described in the libel.
Complaint is made by the appellant that the propeller
was in fault, but the court is of the opinion that what the
propeller did was correct, and that she left nothing undone
which, under the circumstances, was required of her by the
rules of navigation. When the master of the propeller saw
that the Johnson was heading directly towards the canal boat,
he ported her helm, which was all he could do at that time,
as the collision was inevitable. Some benefit, no doubt,
resulted from the movement, as it doubtless diminished the
force of the blow and lessened somewhat the injury to the
canal boat and her cargo.
Unexplained, the appellant concedes that the attempt of
the steamboat to cross the track of the propeller before she
passed up, would not be warranted by the rules of navigation, but he alleges in argument that the Johnson, before
* The Sussex, 1 Robinson, 275; The Niagara, 8 Blachford, 37.

I

Dec. 1869.]

Tuu

JOHNSON.

155

Opinion of the court.

she starboarded her helm, gave notice to the propeller, by
blowing her steam-whistle twice, that she intended to make
that change in her course and go to the left, but the weight
of the evidence is the other way, and the theory of the defence is expressly contradicted by the answer, which must
be regarded as alleging the true state of the case.
Whether tested by the pleadings or the evidence, the case
shows that the helm of the steamboat was put to starboard
when, if changed at all, it should have been put to port, and
that the steamboat was put upon a course heading towards
the Brooklyn shore, across the track of the propeller, before
the steamboat blew her whistle, as alleged by the appellant
Even supposing it were otherwise, and that the theory of
fact assumed by the appellant could be sustained, still the
court is of the opinion that it would constitute no valid defence in this case, for several reasons, which will be briefly
explained: (1.) Because the respective vessels, as they approached each other, were in such close proximity that the
steamboat had no right to insist upon any departure from
the ordinary rules of navigation. (2.) Because any such
departure from the rules of navigation as that contemplated
by the steamboat, necessarily involved danger of collision,
as the propeller was nearer to the shore than the steamboat.
(3.) Because the steamboat, even if she did blow her whistle
before she starboarded her helm, still she had no right to
change her course until it was certain that the signal was
heard and understood by the approaching vessel. (4.) Because the signal, even if given before the order to starboard,
was nevertheless too late to justify the steamboat in attempting to cross the bows of the propeller; but the court is satisfied that the signal, if given as alleged by the apoellant, was
not understood by those in charge of the propeller, and that
it was culpable rashness, in view of the circumstances, for
the steamboat to attempt to cross the bows of the propeller
before receiving any signal that the propeller was willing to
co-operate in the proposed change of course.
Those on board the steamboat received no answer to their
signal, and it is reasonable to suppose that if they were at-

BONNER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tentive to their duties they must have known that those in
charge of the propeller did not understand their signal, and
consequently if they made the proposed change in the course
of their steamer, a collision would follow, and if they did not
so understand the matter, it was their own fault.
Viewed in any light, .the propeller was not at fault, and
the responsibility must rest on the steamboat. Ourconclusion
is, that the Johnson is liable for the whole damage, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court should be in all things affirmed.
Appeal was taken by the libellants from so much of the
decree as exonerated the propeller, but their claim, in the
view of this court, is against the colliding steamboat, and not
against the propeller.
DECREE IN

EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

BONNER V. UNITED STATES.
The United States cannot be sued in the Court of Claims upon equitable

considerations merely. Hence the holder of a military bounty-land
warrant can have no legal right through that court, against the United
States, for compensation on the allegation that the government has
wrongfully appropriated to other uses the lands ceded for his benefit.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
The State of Virginia, during the Revolutionary war,
promised bounty lands to her troops, on Continental establishment, and at an early day set apart for their benefit a tract
of country within the limits of the present State of Kentucky,
which it was supposed at the time would be sufficient for the
purpose. Recognizing, however, that this reservation might
prove insufficient to satisfy the claims of these troops, Vir'ginia, in ceding, March 1st, 1784, to the United States the
territory beyond the Ohio River, reserved all the lands lying
between the Scioto and Little Miami Rivers, to supply any
deficiency of lands in the Kentucky district. It was very
APPEAL

