BONNER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tentive to their duties they must have known that those in
charge of the propeller did not understand their signal, and
consequently if they made the proposed change in the course
of their steamer, a collision would follow, and if they did not
so understand the matter, it was their own fault.
Viewed in any light, .the propeller was not at fault, and
the responsibility must rest on the steamboat. Ourconclusion
is, that the Johnson is liable for the whole damage, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court should be in all things affirmed.
Appeal was taken by the libellants from so much of the
decree as exonerated the propeller, but their claim, in the
view of this court, is against the colliding steamboat, and not
against the propeller.
DECREE IN

EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

BONNER V. UNITED STATES.
The United States cannot be sued in the Court of Claims upon equitable

considerations merely. Hence the holder of a military bounty-land
warrant can have no legal right through that court, against the United
States, for compensation on the allegation that the government has
wrongfully appropriated to other uses the lands ceded for his benefit.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
The State of Virginia, during the Revolutionary war,
promised bounty lands to her troops, on Continental establishment, and at an early day set apart for their benefit a tract
of country within the limits of the present State of Kentucky,
which it was supposed at the time would be sufficient for the
purpose. Recognizing, however, that this reservation might
prove insufficient to satisfy the claims of these troops, Vir'ginia, in ceding, March 1st, 1784, to the United States the
territory beyond the Ohio River, reserved all the lands lying
between the Scioto and Little Miami Rivers, to supply any
deficiency of lands in the Kentucky district. It was very
APPEAL

Dec. 1869.]

BONNER V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

soon manifest that the apprehended deficiency existed, and
the second reservation,therefore, became operative. In order
to ascertain the limits of this reservation, it was necessary to
find the sources of these two rivers and to run the line between them. The execution of this object was the occasion
of much difficulty and the cause of frequent legislation by
Congress. Two lines were run by different surveyors, one
by Ludlow and the other by Roberts. It is unnecessary here
to trace the history of these lines, or to show which is scientifically correct. It is enough to say that Congress, in 1818,*
established Ludlow's line as the true boundary, and excluded
entries upon the west side of it.
In this state of things, Wallace, being the owner and holder
of unsatisfied military bounty-land warrants, issued by the
State of Virginia for the services of her troops on the Continental establishment in the war of the Revolution, located
them, in 1838 and 1839, on lands which he asserted to be
within the district reserved by Virginia to satisfy warrants
of this class, in her deed of cession to the United States of
March 1st, 1784. The entries were, however, made on the
west side of Ludlow's line. That line, therefore, excluded
the land on which Wallace located his entries, though Roberts's line included them.
The lands on which the attempt was thus made to locate
these warrants had long before that time been disposed of to
other parties, and the government declined to recognize the
validity of Wallace's proceedings, and refused to issue patents to him. Wallace accordingly filed a petition in the
Court of Claims; a court which, by the act constituting it,t
has power to hear and determine claims against the United
States, founded upon any law of Congress, or regulation of an
executive department, or upon any contract with it, express or implied. His claim was that as the government had wrongfully
appropriated the lands on which the warrants were laid, and
as he could not get the lands themselves, he should be paid
the amount of money received into the treasury from their
* 3 Stat. at Large, p. 424.

t" See 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

BONNER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sale, with interest, or, in lieu thereof, have land scrip issued
to him; the petitioner stating that he would be satisfied with
this, "or with such other mode, if any there be, as will be
equitable and just."
Wallace dying soon after, his executor and devisee, one
Bonner, took his place upon the record. He insisted in the
Court of Claims that there was no power in Congress to establish Ludlow's line as the true boundary, since Virginia had
not assented to this action on its part, and since it was demonstrable that this line did not include all the lands between the two rivers.
The Court of Claims, however, took a different view of
the obligations of the government, and decided adversely to
the claim on its merits.
The case being now here for review.
-Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Talbot, special counsel,
for the United States, having argued the question of merits, in
reply to Mr. J. J. Coombs, for the appellant, contended that
there was a defect in the appellant's case on its face; that the
allegation of the petition was of property held in trust, by the
United States for the satisfaction of these bounty .warrants,
and of a violation of this trust by the trustee; with a prayer
not for judgment for a sum of money, but in fact for any
equitable relief; that the Court of Claims being created by
statute, its equitable jurisdiction was to be sought for in the
acts of Congress defining its powers; and that there no such
jurisdiction could be found. It was not authorized to give
judgment except upon the basis of an act of Congress, a
regulation of an executive department, or a contract, which
terms did not include a case of trust arising out of a Virginia
bounty-land warrant.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
If the position of the counsel of the United States, that the
Court of Claims has no authority to hear a case of this character,, be well taken, we are relieved of the necessity of deciding the merits of the controversy.

Dec. 1869.]

BONNER V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

The claimant insists that there was no power to establish
Ludlow's line as the true boundary, and exclude entries
on the west side of it, as Virginia did not assent to this
action on the part of Congress, and as it is demonstrable
that this line does not include all the lands between the two
rivers.
If this position be correct, this claim is based on the theory
that the United States has violated the trust contained in the
deed of cession of the Northwestern Territory, and is bound
in good conscience to furnish compensation to the Virginia
beneficiaries who suffer by this misconduct. This makes a
case for the interposition of a court of equity, and if it were
a controversy between two private suitors, it would have to
be settled there, for a court of law could not afford the proper
mode and measure of relief. But the Court of Claims has
no equitable jurisdiction given it, and was not created to inquire into rights in equity set up by claimants against the
United States. Congress did not think proper to part with
the consideration of such questions, but wisely reserved to
itself the power to dispose of them.
Immunity from suit is an incident of sovereignty, but the
government of the United States, in a spirit of great liberality, waived that immunity in favor of those persons who
had claims against it which were founded upon any law of
Congress or regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract with it, express or implied, and gave the Court
of Claims the power to hear and determine cases of this
nature.
The inquiry then arises whether the present case, in view
of this limited jurisdiction, is one that the Court of Claims
had a right to consider. The answer to this question seems
to us of easy solution. It is not pretended that there was
any regulation of a department to justify the entries in dispute, and it is certain, instead of having a law of Congress
to rest upon, they were made in violation of the whole course
of legislation by Congress on the subject. Congress has not
only, in fixing the boundary line of the reservation, excluded
these entries, but has also limited the time in which the

BONNER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

holders of warrants of the class in question should have
the right to locate them, and, in addition to this, has forbidden their location on tracts of land for which patents
had been previously issued, or which had been previously
surveyed.*
As the land in question had been previously patented to
individuals, or granted for the use of schools, it follows that
the attempt on the part of the claimant to locate his warrants on them was contrary to law, and that the claim which
he now makes for compensation, because of the failure of
this proceeding, cannot be said to be founded on a law of
Congress. Nor can it be said to be based on a contract in
the sense of the law conferring jurisdiction on the Court of
Claims. That court was authorized to enforce legal rights
and obligations, but it could not proceed further and judge
of the equities between the citizen and his government. In
the absence of legislation by Congress the bolder of a Virginia military bounty-land warrant can have no legal right
against the United States for compensation on the allegation
that the government has wrongfully appropriated to other
uses the lands ceded for his benefit.
It is only a contract authorized by law that the Court of
Claims can consider, and as there is no law of Congress on
this subject there is nothing on which that court could base
a judgment against the United States if, in the opinion of
that tribunal, it had not fulfilled its duties towards the beneficiaries under the Virginia deed of cession. The liability
of the government, if at all, arises out of the breach of an
accepted trust, and that liability cannot be enforced at law.
The claimant is in no better position because the government is the trustee than he would be if a private person occupied that relation, and it is very clear, if such were the
case, that a court of equity would alone have the power to
deal with him.
As the government has not thought fit to allow itself to
* See the following acts of Congress: March 23, 1804, 2 Stat. at Large,
274; March 2, 1807, Ib. 425; April 2, 1818, 3 Id. 423; March 1, 1823, 3
Id. 772; July 7, 1838, 6 Id. 262.

Dec. 1869.]

THE HARRIMAN.
Statement of the case.

be sued in the Court of Claims 6n equitable considerations,
it follows that the remedy of the claimant, if any now exists,
is with Congress.
The judgment of the court below is REVERSED, and the
case is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the
petition for
WANT OF JURISDICTION.

THE HARRIMAN.
Performance of a contract of charter-party to proceed to a distant port specified, made during a war and for the obvious purpose of furnishing articles to one of the parties to it, held not dispensed with by the fact,

learned in the course of the voyage, that the whole purpose of the voyage was defeated by the changed condition of military operations; the
language of the charter-party having been absolute in its terms, and
without provision for any contingency.

from the Circuit Court for the District of California, the case being thus:
During the recent war between Spain and the Republics
of Chili and Peru, the Spanish fleet being engaged in active
hostilities in the South American waters against the ports
of the enemy, required supplies of steam-coal, and vessels
were taken up on charter, in San Francisco, to convey cargoes for delivery at sea to the vessels of the fleet in aid of
the hostile operations of blockade and bombardment of the
Chilian ports.
Among these vessels taken up by persons watching the
operations of the Spanish fleet, was the ship B. L. Harriman,
which was engaged in this service by a charter-party, under
date of May 4th, 1866, entered into between one C. J. Jansen, her owner, a merchant of San Francisco, and a certain
Emeric, as freighter, also a merchant of that city.
The ship engaged her whole capacity to the freighter, and
to take no cargo except from him or his agent, he stipulatAPPEAL

VOL. IX.

11

