UNITED STATES

v.

ADAMS.

ESup. Ct.

Syllabds.

United States v. Breitling,* to charge the jury upon a supposed or conjectural state of facts, of which no evidence has
been offered. Such an instruction presupposes that there is
some evidence before the jury which they may think sufficient to establish the facts hypothetically assumed in the
charge of the court, and if there is no evidence which they
have a right to consider then the charge does not aid them
in coming to a correct conclusion, but its tendency is to embarrass and mislead, and may induce them to indulge in
conjectures instead of weighing the testimony.
Reference is made to the fact that the word June is written over the word August in the date of the note, showing
that the date originally was August, instead of June, as it
now is; but the conclusive answer to that suggestion is, that
the maker of the note testifies that he wrote the word June
as it now is in the date of the note before he negotiated the
note to the plaintiffs, and as he was the agent of the firm in
filling up the note, the defendant, as between him and the
plaintiffi, has no cause of complaint.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to issue
A

UNITED

STATES V.

NEW VENIRE.

ADAMS.

1. Where, after an appeal taken to this court from the Court of Claims, a
party and his counsel are aware that the finding of the Court of Claims
on a point of fact is erroneous, in time to have it corrected, before the
hearing here, by an application to this court to remit the case to that
court for correction, this court will not, after it has heard the case and
given a decree as if the finding were in all respects correct, stay the mandate and reform their decree, so that the party alleging the error may
obtain a correction of the record from the Court of Claims, and have
the cause heard again.
2. And this is so, although the party and his counsel honestly entertained
the opinion that the fact, so erroneously found and stated, was not a
material one in the case; an opinion in which they were not sustained
* 20 Howard, 252.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V.

ADAMS.

Statement of the ease
by the opinion of this court as afterwards given. This at least so held,
in a case where the action of the party himself had somewhat precluded
his allegation of the error.

ON motion to amend a decree of this court affirming a
decree of the Court of Claims, stay, mandate, &c. The case
was thus:
Adams filed, some time since, a petition in the
Court of
Claims against the United States, claiming $112,748 for certain mortar-boats, tug-boats, cabins, pilot-houses, and other
work, furnished by order of General Fremont in the Westera Military District, during the summer of 1861. One of
the defences relied on by the United States against it was,
that the government had appointed a board of commissioners
to hear and determine this claim among others; that in December, 1861, the petitioner had presented it before that
board, who after having heard the same, adjusted his accounts, and awarded a balance due him of $95,655, which
he had been paid by the government, giving a receipt for
the sum in full of all demands. Ifwas not denied by himself that he had received this money; nor by the government
that he had received it only under protest.
The Court of Claims gave a decree in fivor of his claim,
and the United States appealed.
A rule of this court regulating appeals from the Court of
Claims prescribes, in respect to the way in which that court
shall prepare and certify its record to this court for review,
that it make " a finding of the facts inthe case, and the conclusions of law on the facts on which the court founds its
judgment or decree; the finding of the facts and the conclusions of law to be stated separately, and certified to this
court as part of the record." In accordance with this rule
the Court of Claims, on the appeal by the United States
from its decree, did find and certify as part of the record, the
facts; stating among them "that in December, 1861, tlhe
petitioner presented to said commission his claim for said
mortar-boats, tug-boats, cabins, &c., in two accounts, setting
forth the same."
The appeal was elaborately and ably argued at the last

UNITED STATES v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

term by Mr. Hoar, Attorney-General,and Mr. Dickey, then Assistant Attorney-General, for the government-they arguing
that the settlement and receipt of the money upon the basis
of a quantum meruit (which they endeavored to show was the
basis on which Adams had received his money), precluded
the assertion of the claim made in the Court of Claims-and
by Messrs. Carpenter, Carlisle, Corwine, and Wills, contra; who
contended that the receipt which had been given, was no
bar to the claim.
This court on the appeal reversed the judgment of the
court below, giving an opinion which can be seen in the report of the case in 7th Wallace.* The main ground of that
opinion was thus presented:
"In the view we have taken of the case, the giving of this
receipt is of no legal importance. The bar to any further legal
demand qgainst the government does not rest upon this acquittance, but upon the voluntary submission of the claims to the
board; the hearing and final decision thereon; the receipt of
the vouchers containing he sum or amount found due to the
claimant; and the acceptance of that amount under an act of
Congress providing therefor."
The court, in that opinion, agreed that the creditors of the
government were not bound to present their claims before
that board, but might withhold them, and, as the Secretary
of War had refused to recognize them, seek relief before
Congress or the Court of Claims.
The counsel of Adams-now filing his affidavit to the
effect that the finding of fact sent up by the Court of Claims,
as part of the case, was not true, but was erroneous; that the
petitioner did not present his claim before that board, but, on
the contrary, that the accounts were referred to it by General
Meigs, at the head of the bureau, before whom this class of accounts had to be presented for adjustment; that it was heard
ex parte; and that the materiality of this fact had been discovered since the delivery of the opinion, above mentioned,
* Page 463.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES

V. ADAMS.

Statement of the case.

of this court reversing the judgment of the Court of Claimsmoved to amiend the decree of this court, reversing the decree of the Court of Claims; and to stay the mandate, in
order to enable Adams to obtain a correction of the record
from that court, and that the cause might be again heard.
The ground of this motion was, of course, that the record
from the Court of Claims was erroneous in a material fact
stated in it, and upon which it was supposed that this court
mainly placed its judgment of reversal.
It appeared from the affidavit of the appellee, in support
of the motion, that this error in the record was observed by
him, and known to his counsel, at the argument on the appeal; but that no steps were taken to have it corrected, their
belief having been that the action of the board of commissioners could have no binding effect upon the rights of the
claimant.
Such substantially, as the court regarded it, was the case
as now before it.
But there were certain other facts in the matter which it
thought fit also to refer to. They were these: Accompanying the petition and affidavit of Adams, was the original
record of the evidence before the Court of Claims. The
Secretary of War, in October, 1861, as it showed, suspended
the payment of the present claims, among many others originating in the then Western Military District, upon charges
of fraud alleged against them, and appointed a board of
commissioners to hear and pass upon the same before payment. After the appointment of this board, and when
General Meigs was pressed to pay this claim, with others,
he constantly advised the claimants that the claims must be
heard and adjusted before the board, and, until then, they
would not be recognized or paid; and, on the 4th January,
1862, the papers upon which the claims of Adams were
founded were, by direction of the General himself, placed
before the board, with a request to hear and determine the
amount justly due.
This step, taken by General Meigs, was well known to the
appellee, who was present in St. Louis al the time, where the board

558

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sat. It was true that tfiere was no proof in the record to
show that he presented his claims before the board, or that
he procured any witnesses to appear before them in the course
of their investigations. Four witnesses were examined on
the part of the government on the subject of the reasonableness of the prices charged for the mortar-boats, gun-boats,
and other work. They proved, if not mistaken, a considerable overcharge in the work and materials. No witnesses
were produced on the part of the appellee, nor were those
on the part of the government cross-examined; but, on the
18th of January, 1862,* he addressed a letter to the board,
dated at St. Louis, expressing a desire to submit to them some
facts in relation to the construction of the mortar-boats, which
constituted the principal itein in his accounts. In that letter he
states the history of his communications with the Navy Department and with General Meigs on the subject of his plans
for the construction of the mortar-boats, and of the adoption
of the same by General Fremont, and of the contract tbr
building the same, and closes it by saying that "when this
contract was made, I supposed I would have to pay much
higher for materials and labor than I have, and, therefore,
the job has been more profitable in figures than I expected.
To do this work I had to contract debts to workmen and all
classes who have furnished me materials; and claim, as I
have in no respect been remiss on my part, the government
should deal promptly and liberally with me."
As mentioned in the earlier part of the reporter's statement, the board of commissioners adjusted Adams's accounts
and allowed a balance due -to him of $95,655, for which
he accepted a voucher and gave a receipt in full; accepting
payment of the same under a resolution of Congress, passed
soon afterwards, for the payment of claims audited and allowed by this board of commissioners.
Messrs. Wills and B. R. Curtis, in support of the motion.
The Attorney- General, Mr. Hoar, contra.
* The date as given in the record was 1861, but this manifestly was an
error.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED

STATES V. ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The court is of opinion that a ease has not been presented
by the appellee, which wouild justify it in the exercise of its
equitable powers to grant this relief.
The second rule of this court on appeals from the Court
of Claims, in respect to making up the record, is as follows:
"A finding of the facts in the case by the said Court of
Claims, and the conclusions of law on the facts on which
the court founds its judgment or decree. The finding of
the facts and the conclusions of law to be stated separately,
and certified to this court as part of the record."
The remedy, in case the Court of Claims falls into a mistake as to the finding of the facts, is familiar. It is by al
application to this court to remit the case back for correction, if it be shown, satisfactorily, that a mistake has been
committed.
In the case before us, it is admitted that the mistake was
known to the party and his counsel in season to have had it
corrected before hearing; but, relying on its immateriality,
no step was taken to have the correction made. We do
not doubt but that this opinion was honestly entertained,
and that this motion is made in good faith ; but it is impossible not to see that, if granted, the precedent might
lead to great abuse and delay in the hearing of these cases.
We should allow either party to lie by till the cause was
decided, and the opinion delivered, and then to apply for
the correction, as the exigency of the case might require, or
as the materiality of tie fact might appear from the ground
upon which tile decision was placed. On an appeal, the
parties are entitled to have all the facts proved in the case
before the court below, ill tile judgment of the court, truly
found, and stated in the record, that either deemed material to the decision; and, as we have seen, the remedy is
ample to correct any mistakes committed, if applied for
prior to the learing in this court. The court are not willing to go farther, and permit the remedy to be applied after.
the case is heard and decided, as we fear that such a precedent would work greater injustice and hardship, in its

IIORNTHALL

v. THS COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

general use and application, than that which may exist in
any particular case.
There is another view also, arising out of the facts upon
which this motion is founded, which should be stated. Although it is true that the appellee did not present his claims
before the board, as stated in the finding in the record on
appeal, it cannot, in view of the facts which appear in the
original record of the evidence before the Court of Claims,*
well be denied but that he made himself a party to their
proceedings, and took the benefit of the adjustment of his
accounts by them, which brings the case within the principle
decided in 7th Wallace.
MOTION DENIED.

IORNTHALL V. THuE COLLECTOR.
1. The jurisdiction of suits between citizens of the same State, in internal
revenue cases, conferred by the act of March 2d, 1833, " further to provide for the collection of duties on imports" (4 Stat. at Large, 632), and
the act of June 30th, 1864, "to provide internal revenue," &c. (13 Id.
241), was taken away by the act of July 13th, 1866, "to reduce internal
taxation, and to amend an act to provide internal revenue," &c. (14 Id.
172). Insurance Company v. Ritchie (5 Wallace, 541), affirmed.
2. Where such citizenship as is necessary to give jurisdiction to the Federal
courts is not averred, the suit cannot be maintained.
3. Where the Circuit Court dismisses a bill for want of jurisdiction apparent on its face, the general rule is not to allow costs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of Mississippi; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789 limits the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, so far as determined by citizenship, to "suits
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State."
An act of 1833,t "to provide further for the collection of
* Given, supra, p. 557, in the latter part of the reporter's statement, begin-

ning with the sentence, "Accompanying

the petition," and ending with the

words (foot of p. 558), "allowed by this board of commissionrs."-Rz.
t 4 Stat. at Large, 632.

