1486

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the city to lend its credit, and issue the bonds in question,
was in violation of the provision of the constitution above
referred to. But, at the time this loan was made, and these
bonds were issued, the decisions of the court of the State
favored the validity of the law.* The last decision, cannot,
therefore, be followed.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice MILLER.

INGLE V. JONES.
1. Although by the statutes of'Maryland which are in force in that part of the
District of Columbia which makes the county of Washington,judgment
against an administrator for his testator's debts should be entered only
for assets as they shall come into his hands, still, a judgment in the ordinary form will not prevent the creditors filing a bill to charge the
realty where the record shows that after such judgment the auditor of
the court has, in pursuance of a reference by the court to him, found the
personalty insufficient to pay the debt, and that recourse must be had to
such realty.
2. The law governing there, makes the proceeding against the administrator

and the heir, when the latter proceeding is necessary, entirely independent of each other. If it be necessary to resort to the realty to discharge debts, a proceeding against the heir must be instituted, and in
that case, whatever has been done by the administrator is without
effect, as to the property sought to be charged. A judgment against the
administrator is not evidence against the heir, and the demand must be
proved in all respects as if there had been no prior proceeding to effect
its collection.
3. When a will imposes on an executor, who is named, duties foreign to those
which come within the scope of an executor's ordinary functions, such
powers do not pass to an administrator unless it be clear that it was the
intention of the testator to make him a donee of the power.
4. A mere administrator, not the donee of such a power, cannot plead the
statute of limitations to defeat a suit brought on a judgment, by a creditor seeking to charge the realty with his debt,
5. The three months allowed by the 69th of the Rules in Equity, for the
See Dean v. Madison, 7 Wisconsin, 688; Clark v. Janesville, 10 Id.
136.-REP.
t Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175.

Dec. 1869.]

INGL

V. JONES.

Statement of the case.
taking of testimony, has reference to the taking of testimony by both
parties ; defendants as much as complainants. It is for the court below to decide whether further time shall be given or refused, and ordi-

narily the determination of the question would not be deemed a fit
subject for review by this tribunal, though cases may occur of so flagrant
a character that it would be its duty to interpose.
6. It refused to interpose, though the court below had been prompt in setting
down a case for hearing, the case having been one by a complainant
having a pretty plain right, from the enjoyment of which he was kept
by a defendant in possession, who had been contesting the case for eighteen years with great pertinacity, and with the interposition of all kinds
of technical objections.
7. The necessity of an order for the sale of real property to pay debts being
clear, the court may direct an ascertainment of the whole amount of the
testator's liabilities when the sale is confirmed. It is not indispensable
that such ascertainment have been made before the sale was ordered.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being this:
By certain ancient statutes of Maryland, in force within
the District,* it is enacted that in suits against an administrator he need not plead plene adminislravit, nor anything
relative to assets; and that he shall not be burdened further
than these have come to his hands; but that after verdict
against the administrator, the court shall assess the pro rata
which he ought to pay; and to do this the court is authorized
"when the real debt or damages are ascertained (meaning
by verdict or confession) to refer the matter to an auditor,
to ascertain the sum for which judgment shall be given." In
case the judgment shall be for a sum inferior to the real
debt, it shall go on and say, "that the plaintiff is entitled to
such further sum as the court shall hereafter assess on discovery of further assets in the hands of the defendant."
These statutes being in force-and the 69th of the Equity
Rules set forth by this court for the governance of courts
below in equity causes, prescribing that " three months, and
no more, shall be allowed for the taking of testimony after
the cause isat issue, unless the court or a judge thereof
shall, upon special cause shown by either party, enlarge the
APPEAL

* Act of 1786, chapter 80,
vii, viii, ix.

i; act of 1798, chapter 101, subchapters 7, 8,

INOLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

time"-Zephaniah Jones, a builder, entered in 1851 into a
contract with Miss Ann R. Dermott for building her a large
house in Washington; she agreeing to pay him $24,000 for
his work; parts of the sum to be paid as the building advanced. The house was so far built as to be ready for delivery in May, 1852, and it was delivered to Miss Dermott
accordingly; its yearly rental being subsequently estimated
at from $7000 to $8000. Before the corn pletion of things on
either side, misunderstandings arose, and Miss Dermott refusing to pay the balance claimed by Jones, he sued her to
recover it. The suit was earnestly contested; technical objections being raised wherever they could be set up. Jones
obtained a verdict and judgment, but it was reversed here
on objections of this kind. Being thus sent back he then obtained a second verdict and judgment, which was reversed
on like grounds. Settlement of the claim was thus greatly
protracted.
In the progress of the contest Miss Dermott departed this
life, leaving debts; leaving the house which Jones had built
and the ground on which it stood (her chief realty), some
(not very considerable) personalty, and a will of a peculiar
kind.
By this will she appointed eight executors, one of them
being a certain John P. Ingle. The executors and their
survivors, in the performance of the "powers, commissions,
charges, functions, and duties," which she gave them along
with "the exclusive care, management, and stewardship of
her estate," were to have its entire management and control
during an uncertain time named by her. They were to rent
the real estate, and out of the rents and the personal estate,
not otherwise disposed of; were to pay her funeral expenses,
and her other debts, without regard to limitations of time,
"if found according to their best judgment really due in conscience;" to pay several legacies, and to pay also an annuity,
while their duties were executing, though after the execution accomplished, it was to be a charge on the estate; they
were to pay all such debts of her brother, contracted by
him in a place and within a time named, as they should,

Dee. 1869.]

489

INGLE V. JONES.
Statement of the case.

"according to the best of theirjudgnments and discretions, deem
due in conscience, and no other debts or pretended debts of his
contracting." They were authorized to sell certain lots in"
an old cemetery, and to buy others in a new one, and to
build there a vault to receive her remains. The power was
given to mortgage her real estate, if found necessary to pay
debts. After the debts and legacies were all satisfied the
entire estate was to be delivered over to twenty trustees,
named in the will, one Stringfellow being the first named,
to whom and their heirs it was devised for a charity described; a charity, however, which now was confessedly void,
and which could not be enforced as against her heirs.
All the persons named as executors declined to act except one of them, John P. Ingle, already named. He, however, after taking letters and defending against Jones's suit,
but not wholly settling the estate, died during the progress
of the controversy; thus leaving no executor to the will.
Miss Dermott had provided in that instrument that if the
surviving executor should die while the trusts were yet executory, the execution of her will, &c., "shall not devolve
upon the executor of such deceased executor, but upon such
person or persons as the vestries of St. John and Trinity
Churches* may elect to go on and complete this will in so
far as the execution thereof is committed to my said executors, and that proper letters of administration with the will
might be granted by the court or authority competent for
the purpose, to the person or persons so elected." But the
vestries of the two churches named by Miss Dermott did not
elect any one in pursuance of her will to take his place, and
the court in Washington competent for that purpose, acting
under a statutet which authorized the appointment of such
an administrator, but was silent as to the powers which such
a representative of the decedent shall have, appointed one
John I. Ingle, administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed.
Against this administrator de bonis non, &c., Jones finally,
* Two Episcopal churches in Washington.

t Act of Maryland, 1798, chapter 101, subcha~pter 6,

6,&c.

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in 1865, and after fifteen years' prosecution of his suit, obtained a judgment. The record entry of it was " for $20,136,
.with interest from April 5th, 1852, with costs, to be levied
of the goods and chattels which were of the said Ann Dermott at the time of her death, which have come, or at any
time hereafter shall come, to the hands of the said John
H. Ingle, to be administered, if such goods and chattels be
sufficient to discharge said damages and costs and all other
just claims against the same; and if not sufficient, then said
damages and costs to be levied of said goods and chattels
ratably with all other just claims against the same." The
record proceeded:
"And, because it is unknown to the court here whether all or
only such ratable part of said damages and costs ought to be so
levied, it is referred to the auditor to inquire thereof, according
to the statute in such ease made and provided, and report accordingly."
The auditor reported that there were no assets in Ingle's
hands which could be applied to payment of the debt. Jones
thereupon filed a bill in equity in the court below-the bill
to the decree on which the present appeal was taken-to subject the testator's real estate to the payment of the judgment. And the complainant alleging that Ingle, being administrator of the unadministered personalty only, had no
concern with the realty, the court appointed a receiver, one
Wilson, to take charge of it, and to receive the rents.
The bill thus now brought, made Ingle administralor, &c.,
and Hoe and several others, heirs-at-law of Miss Dermott,
and Stringfellow with other trustees, parties defendant.
The fbrmer denied the justice of the demand, and pleaded
the statute of limitations. Hoe and some others filing their
answers, confessed its validity, did not plead the statute, and
agreed to the sale of the realty as prayed for. And against
Stringfellow and the trustees the case went by default.
The cause was put at issue on the 6th of March, 1866.
The 69th rule in.equity, as already stated, allowed the par-

Dec. 1869.]

INGLE V. JONES.
Statement of the case.

ties three months thereafter to take their testimony. The
complainant began the taking of his on the 14th of that
month. Between that time and the 23d, inclusive, he examined nine witnesses; the complainant's counsel, to whom
notice had been given, appearing and cross-examining those
of them whose testimony was the most important. An adjournment was ordered by the examiner, from the 23d of
March until the 2d of June. A deposition relating to a formal
matter was then taken, and the complainant's counsel announcing that he had closed the examination of witnesses
on his part, the examiner on that day (four days yet remaining of the three months) sealed up the depositions and transmitted them to the court; no objection being at this time
made by the defendants.
A side issue, made also about this time, must here be
referred to. It has been mentioned that the answers of the
heirs-at-law admitted the justice of Jones's claim, and assented to the granting of his prayer for satisfaction from
the realty. On the 23d of May they filed a petition, setting
forth that these answers were obtained from them by fraud
practised upon them by an emissary of Jones, and asking
leave to withdraw those answers, and to file answers de novo.
The particulars of the case were given by them. Jones
answered, denying them; but the issue having been one of
fact, there is nothing in it worthy of report, further than that
the particular matter was set down for hearing on the 11th
of June, and that on the 14th the court, refusing to allow the
withdrawal prayed for, dismissed the petition asking it.
Returning now to the main case. Six days before this
dismissal-that is to say, on the 11th of June, and still,
therefore, before the three months for taking testimony had
co npletely expired-the court set down the motion for publication of the testimony on the 8th of June, 1866, and on
the same day set down the cause for hearing at the then
term; the petition to take the answers off the file being still
not passed on and pending. On the 10th of June, the defendants gave notice that they would take testimony on the 19th
of the month, and filed objections against the case being

INGLE V. JONES.

,[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the administrator.

heard at the then term, and showing afterwards as cause
that no sufficient opportunity had been allowed to them to
take rebutting testimony, after the evidence in chief on the
part of the complainant was closed on the 2d of June, and
because none was allowed the defendants, heirs-at-law, to
take evidence in support of the allegations of their petition,
filed May 23d, for withdrawal of their answers. The court
below, however, heard the case, and on the 3d of July, 1866,
finding the amount due to the complainant, and that it was
necessary to sell the real estate described in the bill to pay
it, ordered the premises to be sold, and the proceeds to be
held subject to the further order of the court. From this
decree it was that Ingle now appealed.
Messrs. R. J. and J. L. Brent and S. L. Phillips, for the
appellant:
1. By the old statutes of Maryland which regulate the
subject, no judgment can be rendered against an administrator until it is judicially ascertained, on an auditor's report
or otherwise, that there is, or is not, any assets in hand, and
when this fact is ascertained, the judgment is entered and
moulded accordingly.' The true entry and form of making
up of the record, in such a case as this was, is shown in
Harris's Entries,* in which old and approved book of precedents, it will be seen that there is no entry even of an
interlocutory judgment on a confession of the debt (or by
analogy on a verdict establishing it), until the auditor's report is made. There was thus in law no judgment whatever
on this verdict.
2. Did the administrator de bonis non with the will annexed, who sets up the illegality of the claim and also the
statute of limitations, succeed to the trust estate vested in
the executor, these trusts being yet unexecuted when that
executor died? No doubt the testatrix conlemplated the occurrence of two events, viz., the nomination by the vestries,
and its ratification by the Orphans' Court. But she has failed
* Page 104.

Dec. 1869.]

INGLE V. JONES.
Argument for the administrator.

to say what her intention was in case the Orphans' Court appointed a person, upon the failure of the vestries lo notinate.
Did she mean to let the great trusts of her will fail in this
last case? Certainly not. We must therefore construe her
will as containing two intents-first, a particular intent that
her administrator should be named by the vestries; secondly,
a general intent, that her administrator, however appointed,
should be the trustee. If so, and both intents cannot be
gratified, the rule is to construe the will upon the cy-pres
doctrine, and sacrifice the particular intent, which in such
case is construed as merely directory and not imperative.
If this court takes that view, we are let into both defences.
Of course, if our view is right, the appointment of a receiver
was improper. [The counsel then went into these points.]
3. The answers of the heirs-at-law of Miss Dermott were
obtained by contrivance and fraud, and should have been
taken off the files, that they might answer de novo. [The
counsel then argued this point.]
4. The court erred in ordering publication, and refusing
to allow the defendants to take evidence on the merits. The
complainant consumed the three months by his evidence in
chief, and then announced it closed, and on the same day had
it filed and moved for publication. The defendants in vain
excepted, and prayed for an extension of time (under the
69th rule) to rebut the testimony taken; but the court below
held that we were in fault for not taking testimony pari
passu with the complainant. The action of the cornmissioner in closing and sealing the depositions, on the 2d of
June, cut us out of four days of the three months during
which we were entitled to take testimony; and even if we
had served a notice de novo to take it, such had been the
course of the other side that the time would have been too
short for us. We were at any rate clearly entitled to keep
the depositions open for four days to examine any witnesses
we chose.
Then on the 5th of June, before the three months had
expired, the court set down the motion for publication of the
testimony on the 8th of June, 1866, and on the same day

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sul). Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

the cause was set down for hearing by order of the court.
The petition to take answers offfile was still pending, and the
defendants could not take evidence while pleadings were
being perfected. If they had gone on to take it under
those disputed answers, it would have prejudiced their petition to take them off the file. In addition, the defendants
could not know what rebutting evidence to adduce until the
complainant closed his case on the 2d of June, 1866.
This particular error of the court below was a great one,
for it saps the foundations of justice, by paralyzing all attempts at defence.
5. The decree was erroneous on its face. Without any
reference to the auditor to report what other debts than
Jones's existed, it decrees the sale of the whole real estate;
omitting to adjudicate the amount or insufficiency of the
personal estate, so as to subject the realty to the payment
of the deficiency for which it was only responsible.
Messrs. Davidge and J. I. Bradley, eontra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity from the decree of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. The record is voluminous, and contains numerous exhibits, and much of detail,
which we have not found it necessary to consider. The
material facts lie within a narrow compass, and the questions presented for our determination are neither numerous
nor difficult of solution. On the 22d of April, 1851, the
testatrix and the appellee entered into a contract for the
erection by the latter of a large building in the city of Washington. She was to pay for the structure the sum of $24,000;
$5000 on the 1st of July, 1851; $5000 on the 1st of October
following, provided certain parts of the building were then
ready for occupation ; and the remaining $14,000 on the 1st
of January, 1860, with interest, as stipulated. The first instalment was duly paid. Nothing has been paid since. Possession of those parts of the building to be first completed
was delivered in December, 1851, and of the residue in April,

Dec. 1869.]

INGLE V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

1852. In May, 1852, Jones sued for the instalment due on
the 1st of October, 1851, and recovered. The judgment was
reversed by this court.* The declaration was then amended
by withdrawing the special counts and enlarging the ad quod
damnum to $40,000, and a verdict and judgment were recovered for $22,149, and interest. This judgment was also
reversed.t The case was again tried, and a verdict and
judgment were recovered for $20,136.23, with interest from
the 5th of April, 1852. The auditor of the court was directed to ascertain the amount of assets in the hands of
Ingle, the administrator, which could be applied in payment
of the debt. He reported that there were no assets available for thai purpose. Jones thereupon filed this bill to
subject the real estate therein described to the payment of
his demand.
It is insisted by the counsel for the appellants that the
judgment is erroneous in fbrm, and is, in fact, only interlocutory. This objection is well taken. According to the
statutes of Maryland, which are in force in the county of
Washington, the judgment, under the circumstances, should
have been entered only for assets as they should thereafter
come into the hands of the administrator. But this fact is
immaterial. The case is governed by the local law. That
law makes the proceeding against the administrator and the
heir, when the latter proceeding is necessary, entirely independent of each other. The duties of the administrator
are confined to the personal estate, and never extend beyond
it. If that be insufficient to discharge the debts, and it be
necessary to resort to the realty of the deceased for that
purpose, a proceeding against the heir must be instituted.
In that event, whatever has been done by the administrator
is without effect, as to the property sought to be charged.
Ajudgment against the administrator is not evidence against
the heir. The demand must be proved in all respects as if
there had been no prior proceeding to effect its collection,
23 Howard, 220.

t 2 Wallace, 1.

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the statute of limitations may be pleaded with the same
effect as if there had been no prior recovery against the
personal representative.*
We have examined with care the proofs in the record
of the complainant's demand as set forth in the bill, and are
satisfied with the amount found by the decree. It could be
productive of no good to vindicate this view of the subject,
by enteri'.g into an analytical examination of the testimony.
We are not unmindful of the length of time through which
the complainant has been pursuing his remedy, nor of the
verdicts which have been rendered in the trials at law.
They were the results of vigorously contested litigation,
after the most elaborate preparation of the case. Nor are
we unmindful that the court below, in the case before us,
came substantially to the same conclusion. Our judgment,
however, has been formed upon grounds wholly apart from
these considerations. If the question were res indegra in this
case, and now for the first time to be passed upon, we should
have no difficulty in sustaining the decree. We think the
full amount found by the court is justly due.
Ann R. Dermott, by her will, appointed eight executors,
and clothed them with important powers and duties. They
were to have the entire management and control of the
estate during the uncertain time specified. They were to
rent out the real estate. Out of the rents and the personal
estate, not otherwise disposed of, they were to pay her debts,
without regard to limitation of time; to pay her funeral expenses; several legacies, amounting in the aggregate to between $3000 and $4000; to pay an annuity of $400, while
their duties were executory, after which it was to be a charge
upon the estate; they were to pay, in their discretion, certain
debts of her brother; they were to build a vault to receive
her remains, and they were authorized to sell two cemetery
lots. The power was given to mortgage, if found necessary
to pay debts. After the debts and legacies were all satisfied,
the entire estate was to be delivered over to twenty trustees,
Statutes of Maryland of 1786 and 1798; Collinson v. Owens et al., 6 Gill
& Johnson, 4; 8 Peters, 628.

Dec. 1869.]

INGLE V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

named in the will, to whom and their heirs it was devised, to
enable them to found and support a female orphan asylum.
The beneficiaries were to be such destitute white orphans
as the trustees, or any corporation which might succeed
them, should select. The provision for this charity is admitted on both sides to be void. The statute of the 43d
Elizabeth never was in force in Maryland. The trust resulted for the benefit of the heirs-at-law.* All the persons
named as executors declined to act, except one of them,
John P. Ingle, who qualified, and took out letters testamentary. He died, whereupon the defendant, John 1-. Ingle,
was appointed administrator, with the will annexed. The
will provides, that if the surviving executor should die while
the trusts are executory, their execution should devolve upon
such person or persons as the vestries of St. John and Trinity Churches should elect to go on and complete their execution, so far as they were committed to the executors, and
she desired that letters of administration, with the will annexed, or other competent authority, should be granted to
the person or persons so elected. The vestries made no
election. Letters were granted by the judge of probate to
John If. Ingle, as if the will contained no such provision.
The question whether the administrator thus appointed
could exercise any authority as to the real estate is deemed
an important one by the counsel on both sides, and has been
fully argued. The Maryland statutes which bear upon the
subject provide for the appointment of an adyninistrator de
bonis non, with the will annexed, but are silent as to his powers.
By the common law his duties are confined to the personal
estate, unadministered by his predecessor. Whatever authority he may possess as to the real estate must be derived
from the will. If not found there in express terms, or by
necessary implication, it has no existence. Hence the test,.
in all such cases, is the intention of the testator. Many
of the duties enjoined upon the executors were foreign to
those which come within the scope of their ordinary func*

Dashiell v. Attorney-General, 5 Harris & Johnson, 400; Same v. Same,

6 Id. 9; Wildenian v. The Mayor of Baltimore, 8 Maryland, 554.
VOL. IX.

82

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tions. Such a power never passes by devolution to an administrator, unless it be clear that it was the intention of the
testator that he should become the donee of the power, in
place of the executor appointed by the will. If no provision
be made by the will for such substitution, the power does
not become extinguished, but the case falls within the category of those where a court of equity will not permit a trust
to fail for the want of a trustee, but will appoint one, and
clothe him with authority adequate to the duties to be discharged.* In the case under consideration it is clear the
testatrix did not intend that any one not clothed with the
sanctions she prescribed should be intrusted with any duty
touching her estate. The administrator occupies the same
relation to the realty as if he were administrator de bonis non
without the will annexed, and the testatrix had died intestate. This disposes of the questions raised as to the statute
of limitations. The administrator alone has interposed that
defence. It cannot avail those who represent the real estate,
and who are the only parties in interest in this proceeding.
It was proper for the court to appoint a receiver. Until
this was done there was no one authorized to take charge of
the property and receive the rents.
Upon looking carefully into the record we find no foundation for the imputation that the answers of the heirs-at-law
were obtained by fraud or contrivance. It was within the
discretion of the court to allow them to be taken off the
files and the parties to answer de novo, or to overrule the application made for that purpose. We think this discretion
was not abused.
It was strenuously insisted that the court erred in refusing further time to the defendants to take testimony. The
earnestness with which the point was pressed has induced us
to examine it with more care than we should otherwise have
deemed necessary. The cause was put at issue on the 6th
of March, 1866. The 69th rule in equity allowed the parties
Egerton, Administrator, v

Conklin, 25 Wendell, 238; Do Peyster v.

Clendining, 8 Paige, 296; Dominick v. Michael, 4 Sandford, 402; Cole v.
Wade, 16 Vesey, 42; 1 Chance on PNwers, 658, 681.

Dec. 1869.]

INGLE V. JONES.
Opinion of the court.

three months thereafter to take their testimony. The complainant commenced taking his on the 14th of that month.
Between that time and the 23d, inclusive, he examined nine
witnesses. Notice was given to the defendant's counsel.
He appeared and cross-examined the witnesses so far as he
chose to do so. An adjournment was ordered by the examiner, from the 23d of March until the 2d of June. A single
deposition relating to a formal matter was then taken. The
examiner thereupon closed the testimony and returned it to
the court. It does not appear that the defendants made any
objection to the adjournment, or manifested any desire to
take testimony during the period of more than two months
between the time of the adjournment and the time to which
it extended. The application for further time was heard
and overruled by the court on the 8th of June. The rule
referred to provides that " three months, and no more, shall
be allowed for the taking of testimony after the cause is at
issue, unless the court or a judge thereof shall, upon special
cause shown by either party, enlarge the time." The three
months are allowed for the taking of testimony by both parties. The limitation applies as much to defendants as to
complainants. It is for the court or judge to decide whether
further time shall be given or refused, and ordinarily the
determination of the question would not be deemed a fit
subject for review by this tribunal. Cases may, however,
occur of so flagrant a character that it would be our duty to
correct the error. In the case before us the complainant's
testimony was substantially closed on the 23d of March.
The defendants had from that time until the 6th of June to
take testimony on their part in the regdlar way. No reason
is given why they neglected to do so. Indeed they were
bound to proceed as soon as the cause was at issue. They
had no right to wait until the complainant was through.
They knew from the previous trials at law what his testimony would be. If there was any surprise, and an extension of time was necessary, doubtless it would have been
given. The complainant was pursuing the residue of his"
compensation for the house he had built. lie had delivered

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

possession years before. The house was large and valuable.
The proof is that it rented for from seven to eight thousand
dollars per year. His expenditures had been large. He
had received less than a quarter of the contract price, and
nothing for his extra work. He had recovered two verdicts
ie had been engaged for more
for the amount claimed.
than fourteen years in a bitter and expensive litigation, in
which every possible impediment had been thrown in his
way. In the light of these facts we are not prepared to say
that the court below erred in the ruling complained of.
There is no error apparent on the face of the decree. It
-finds the amount due to the complainant, and that it was
necessary to sell the real estate described in the bill to pay
it. It orders the premises to be sold in the manner prescribed, and the proceeds to be held subject to the further
order of the court. The auditor had found and reported
the deficiency of assets requisite to give the court jurisdiction and to entitle the complainant to the relief sought by
his bill. The necessity of making the sale, if the complainant's demand was to be paid, was clear upon the proofs, and
was not denied by the answers. The amount of the liabilities to be paid out of the proceeds might have been ascertained before the decree of sale was made, but that was not
indispensable. It may as well be done when the sale is confirmed. The rights of all parties in respect to the fund can
then be ascertained, and payment and distribution be ordered
accordingly. It is not alleged that the premises were susceptible of division, or if they were, that it was not necessary to sell the whole. No such issue is made in the pleadings, and no such pi'oof is found in the testimony.
It is now nearly eighteen years since the complainant commenced a suit to recover what has been adjudged to him in
this case. The conflict has been flagrant ever since. The
demand seems to us to be simple and just. We find no error
in the record, and the decree of the court below is
AFFIRMED.

Dec. 1869.]

HOE v. WILSON.
Statement of the case.

NOTE.

In sequence to the preceding case should be reported another, an offspring from it, and like it, from the Supreme
Court of the District, the case of

HOE

ET AL. V. WILSON.

1. Where certain heirs at law seek to set aside a sale of their ancestor's
realty made under a decree of a competent court ordering, at a creditor's instance, such sale for the payment of a debt due him, they should
make the creditor on whose application the sale was made a party. All
the heirs also should be parties. It is not enough that those who bring
the suit profess to file their bill "for themselves and the other heirs at
law," these last being known and not numerous.
2. This court will reverse and remand a case thus defective as to parties,
although this deficiency have not been made a point at the bar below.
8. It will not consider a case upon documents not in the cause below, though

filed here by consent as if returned under a writ of diminution.
THE decree of the Supreme Court of the District ordering a
sale of Miss Dermott's real estate, which the affirmance in the
preceding case adjudged was rightly made, having been executed and a sale made, and the property bought by Wilson, who
as stated in the report of the case had been appointed receiver
of its rents, Hoe, there also mentioned as an heir-at-law of Miss
IDermott, with eight others, her heirs also, who joined with him,
filed a bill against this Wilson to set aside the purchase, the
ground of their bill being that he had purchased below the real
value of the property, and that having been receiver, he was
incompetent, with proper regard to those rules which equity
places around all persons standing in positions of confidence, to
purchase at all. The nine heirs who thus filed the bill professed
to file it "fbr themselves and the other heirs at law," averring
that there were such others, but not naming them nor saying
anything as to their number, nor indeed anything else about
them. The testimony showed the existence of four, and gave
the names of two in full, with a statement that the full names
of the two others were not remembered, but that in their names
occurred, in the one, "O'Neal," and in the other, "Jane." The

