UNITED STATES V.

HOSMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

practice in Louisiana, from the finding of the facts by the
court, that would entitle them to a re-examination of it here;
but as the court did not make it up, and file it, as of the date
of the trial and judgment, it cannot be regarded as a part of
the record; and, under the circumstances, the case being an
important one, and intended to be carried up here for reexamination, we shall REVERSE the judgment for a mistrial,
and REMAND it to the court below
FOR A NEW TRIAL.
[See supra, 125, Norris v. Jackson.]

UNITED STATES V.

HOSMER.

The 3d section of the act of August 6th, 1861, which enacts that
All the acts, proclamations, and orders of the President of the United States,
after the 4th of March, 1861, respecting the army and na.vy of the United States,
and calling out or relating to the militia or volunteers from the States, are
hereby approved, and in all respects legalized and made valid, to the same intent, and with the same effect, as if they bad been issued and done under the previous express authority of the Congress of the United States,"
validates and ratifies a proclamation and orders of the President, made
in May, 1861; and where such proclamation and order promised to privates who entered the service a bounty of $100, "when honorably discharged," a private entering on the 15th July, 1861, is entitled to the
bounty whenever honorably'discharged; though he have served less
than six months. The act of 22d July, 1861, the 1st section of which
provides that
"All provisions of law applicable to three years volunteers shall apply to two
years volunteers, and to all volunteers who have been or may be accepted into
the service of the United States for a period not less than six months,"
and whose 5th section provides that $100 shall be paid to privates
"honorably discharged," who shall have served "Itwo years, or during
the war, if sooner ended,'' does not apply to him.

Tm~s was all appeal by the United States from the judgment of the Court of Claims, giving to a discbarged soldier
a bounty which he claimed of $100.
Mr. Talbot, for the United States; Mr. Schouler, contra.

Dec. 1869.1

UNITED STATES v. i-osMER.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The case was decided by the Court of Claims, upon a
demurrer to the claimant's petition. The facts set forth in
the petition were admitted by the demurrer. The only
question before the court was the sufficiency of the facts
alleged to warrant the judgment invoked. The case is presented for our consideration in the same manner. We cannot take cognizance of any fact beyond the scope of the
record, as it was made up in the court below.
The petition sets forth that the claimant was a private in
company B of the 15th regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers; that lie was enrolled and enlisted in the service about
the 15th of July, 1861, and was honorably discharged by
reason of a surgeon's certificate of disability on or about the
5th of January, 1863; that on the 3d of May, 1861, the President called for a volunteer force for the enforcement of the
laws, and the suppression of insurrection, by a proclamation,
which stated that the details would be made known through
the Department of War; that general order No. 15 of the War
Department, of May 4th, 1861, and general order No. 25
of that department, of May 26th, 1861, provided that every
private who entered the service under the plan set forth
should be paid, when honorably discharged, the sum of one
hundred dollars; that by the act of Congress of August 6th,
1861, the proclamation and orders were legalized; that the
petitioner had duly demanded the sum of one hundred dollars; that his claim had been rejected by the paymastergeneral; and that this rejection had been approved by the
second comptroller. By consent, the petition was amended
by inserting at the proper place that the regiment was organized and accepted under the proclamation, and orders
before mentioned for the term of three years; and that the
petitioner was duly enrolled in the regiment. The United
States demurred. The Court of Claims overruled the denurrer, and gave judgment for the petitioner. The United
States thereupon brought the case by appeal to this court.
The proclamation of the President and the orders of the
VOL. Ix.

28

434

UNITED STATES v. HoSMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

War Department, relied upon by the claimant, are correctly
set forth in the petition, and need not be more 'particularly
adverted to.
The 3d section of the act of August 6th, 1861,* declares
that "all the acts, proclamations, and orders of the President
of the United States, after the 4th of March, 1861, respecting the army and navy of the United States, and calling out
or relating to the militia or volunteers from the States, are
hereby approved, and in all respects legalized and made
valid, to the same intent, and with the same effect, as if
they had been issued and done under the previous express
authority of the Congress of the United States."
This made the case of the petitioner complete. It was
unquestionably within the proclamation and orders thus
legalized. Congress gave the same validity to the claim as
if the petitioner had entered the service under an antecedent statute containing exactly the provisions of the orders
under which the claim has arisen.
The attorney for the United States relies upon the act of
fhe 22d of July, 1861.1 The 1st section of that act provides
that "all provisions of law applicable to three years volunteers shall apply to two years volunteers, and to all volunteers who have been or may be accepted into the service of
the United States for a period not less than six months."
The 5th section provides that $100 shall be paid to privates
"honorably discharged," who shall have served " two years,
or during the war, if sooner ended."
This was the first act passed by Congress for calling out
troops to suppress the rebellion. It is insisted that it is
retrospective as well as prospective in its operation; that it
applies to volunteers who entered the service prior to its
passage, under the proclamation, as well as those who entered subsequently under its provisions; and that the petitioner, not having served two years at the time of his
discharge, was hence not entitled to the hundred dollars in
question. It is unnecessary to consider this subject. ConNstar.at Large, 326.
1*

t lb. 268.

Dec. 1869.]

THE MAGGIE HAMMOND.
Syllabus.

ceding the construction contended for to be correct, the
consequence insisted on by no means follows. The prior
act must yield to the later one. The act of August 6th
ratifies the proclamation and orders in the strongest terms.
It contains no exception or qualification. It gives to the
orders the fullest effect, and leaves the claim of the petitioner
in all respects as it would have been if the act of the 22d of
July had not been passed. We may add that it would not
comport with the dignity of the government thus to break
faith with the gallant men who in that hour of gloom stood
forth to peril their lives for their country. Viewing the two
acts together, we are confident such was not the intention
of Congress.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE

MAGGIE HAMMOND.

1. Where a libel was filed against a foreign ship, in an admiralty case, in an
admiralty court of the United States, the libellant and claimant both
being foreigners, the place of shipping and the place of consignment
being foreign ports, and the whole ground of libel a matter which occurred abroad, this court considered the question of jurisdiction open for
argument here, though it was not raised by the pleadings, and had not
been suggested by any one in the court below.
2. The owner of the cargo has a lien, by the maritime law, upon the ship
for the safe custody, due transport, and right delivery of the same.
3. Where a lien exists by the maritime law of foreign jurisdictions, our admiralty has jurisdiction to enforce it here even though all the parties be
foreigners. Its enforcement is but a question of comity.
4. Sernble, that by'the law of Scotland, the shipper, where the goods have
been sold, lost, or injured during the voyage, may have recourse upon
the vessel as a guarantee for the personal obligation of the shipowner.
5 Under the statute of 24th and 25th Victoria, commonly known as the Admiralty Court Act, jurisdiction exists in the English courts of admiralty
to enforce by proceedings in rem a claim by an owner, domiciled in
Canada, of a bill of lading of goods carried into a port of Wales, where
the master abandoned the voyage without lawful excuse, improperly
entered into a new contract of affreightment, and proceeded on a distant
voyage, leaving the goods at the Welsh port, and neither carrying them
himself to their port of destination, nor seeking to forward them in
another vessel.

