CHICAGO V.

SHELDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CHICAGO V. SHELDON.
1. The clause in the ordinance of May 23d, 1859, by which the city of Chicago granted to the North Chicago City Railway Company the right to
construct a railway, the company agreeing, that it should"As respects the grading, paving, macadamizing, filling, or planking of
the streets or parts of the streets, upon which they shall construct their

said railways, or any of them, keep eight feet in width

long the line

of said railway on all the streets where one track is constructed, and
sixteen feet in width along the line of said railway where two tracks are
constructed, in good repair and condition"-

does not make the company liable for curbing, grading, and paving the
streets with an entirely new pavement. The obligation of the company
extended to repairs only.
2. A contract having been entered into between parties, valid at the time,
by the laws of the State, no decision of the courts of the State, subsequently made, can impair its obligation.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
The constitution of Illinois ordains that taxes shall be
levied so that each person shall pay in proportion to the value
of his property; and that where corporate authorities of
counties, cities, &c., are authorized to levy and collect taxes
for corporate purposes, the taxes shall be uniform in respect

to persons and property.
With these provisions in force, as fundamental law, the
legislature of the State, in February, 1859, authorized the
North Chicago City Railway Company to construct and operate a single or double track of a horse railway on certain
streets of the city, "in such manner anld upon such terms and
conditions, and with such rights and privileges as the said
common council may, by contract with said parties, prescribe."
On the 23d May, of the same year, the common council
passed an ordinance by which they granted to the company
permission to lay, for twenty-five years, a single or double
track of railway on certain streets of the city, upon certain
conditions prescribed; these conditions relating chiefly to
the sort of motive power, the purposes for which the railway

Dec. 1869.]

CHICAGO V.

SHELDON.

Statement of the case.

was to be used, the style and class of car, the sort of track
and degree of its elevation, and the rates of fare. Then
followed a section thus:
"The said company shall, as respects the grading, paving, macadamizing,filling, or planking of the streets, or parts of the streets,
upon which they shall construct their said railways, or any of them,
keep eight feet in width along the line of said railway on all the
streets wherever one track is constructed, and sixteen feet in
width along the line of said railway where two tracks are constructed, in good repair and condition during all the time to which
the privileges hereby granted to said company shall extend, in
accordance with whatever order or regulation respecting the
ordinary repairs thereof may be adopted by the common council
of said city."
After this contract was made, and carried into execution
by the railway company, and up to the year 1866, the common council passed several ordinances for the improvement
of some of the streets occupied by the company, thereby
providing for curbing them with curbstone, grading and
paving them with wooden blocks, known as the Nicholson
pavement. Under none of these, however, was the railway
property of the street railway corporation assessed, except
under one passed in the year last named. In that year the
proprietors of certain lots fronting on streets where the railway was laid, refused to pay the assessments made on them,
upon the ground that the railroad property ought to be assessed. The question between these proprietors of lots and
the city was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, in the
case of the City of Chicago v. Baer,* where it was held (the
previous case of Chicago v. Larned,t being considered as in
principle asserting that doctrine), that the legislature could
not constitutionally grant power to the city to make such a
contract as had been here granted to the railway company,
tlat it was void, and that, as a consequence, the city was
bound to assess the railroad property. A special tax or
* 41 Illinois, 806.

t 34 Id. 265.

CHICAGO V. SHELDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

assessment of $28,677 was now accordingly imposed upon the
property of the railway company, and the collection being
threatened, one Sheldon, a large stockholder in the company-the company itself having declined to act-filed a bill
in the court below to enjoin the collection, and the court enjoined it accordingly. From that decree the city of Chicago
brought the case here, the main question being whether
under their contract to keep the road for a certain number
of feet "in good condition and repaixr," the company could
be made to pay for what was a new curbing, grading, and
paving, altogether, there being also some Tninor questions as
to the effect of the decisions already mentioned.
To complete the history of the matter in hand, a fact somewhat collateral to it should be mentioned. It is that in 1864,
under the authority of the charter of the railway company,
the common council entered into another contract with it in
respect to laying tracks in other streets. The grant in this
new case was made, "subject to all the restrictions and conditions, rights and privileges in the previous ordinance of
the 23d of May, 1859, to the same company, except as herein
otherwise provided." The fifth section provided, as in.
the
first contract, for keeping the eight and sixteen feet of the
street in good condition and repair, but it provided further,
and in addition, that, when any new improvement, paving, &c.,
should be ordered by the common council in any of the
streets, the railway company should make the improvement the
width of the eight or sixteen feet, as the case might be.
Mr. Tuley, for the city, arguedThat a party, and especially a monopoly, setting up exemption ftom city assessment, should show its privilege under
an express contract; such exemption being against common
rights, and not to be favored; that, plainly, no such exemption was contracted for here.
That as the Supreme Court of Illinois had jurisdiction of
the parties, and had power to decide the subject-matter in
controversy in the case of Chicago v. Baer, that decision was
final and conclusive; the decision there not coming before

Dec. 1869.]

CHICAGO V.

SHELDON.

Opinion of the court.

this court on writ of error, as required by the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, if it was to be re-examined;
and it being the established doctrine of this court that it will
adopt and follow the decisions of the State courts in the construction of their own constitution and statutes, when that construction has been settled by the decisions of its highest
judicial tribunal.
That if any prior decisions appeared to authorize the legislature to make contracts commuting the right of specific
taxes or assessments, the case just named and that of Chicago
v. Larned, had essentially modified them.
That the legislature could not authorize the city of Chicago,
and did not mean to authorize it, to make a valid contract
by which the railway company would be exempted from the
payment of its portion for street improvements, in proportion to the benefits received; which was what the railway
corporation did, in fact, pretend was done by the contract
set up.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It is asserted, on the part of the railway company, that by
the true construction of their contract, they are exempt from
the assessment made upon their property, and the seventh
section of the ordinance of the 23d May, 1859, is referred to
and relied on in support of this construction. That section
prescribes the obligations and duties of the company in respect to the condition and repairs of the streets during the
whole period of the running of the contract, and imposes
certain burdens upon it as to repairs, from which, to their
extent, the city, or adjoining owners of lots, are relieved. It
is insisted that this provision was intended, and so understood by both parties, as regulating the whole subject; as it
respects improvements of the streets occupied by the company, and to fix in the contract the extent of their liability.
The language of it is somewhat peculiar, and it cannot
well be denied but that a fair and reasonable interpretation
favors this view. It is as follows: "The said company shall,
as respects the grading, paving, macadamizing,filing, or plank-

CHICAGO V. SHELDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing of the streets, or parts of the streets, upon which they shall
construct their said railways, or any of them, keep eight feet
in width along the line of said railway on all the streets where
one track is constructed, and sixteen feet in width along the
line of said railway where two tracks are constructed, in good
repair and condition." Now, it is quite clear that the above
recitals embrace the whole subject of improvements of the
streets, and that it was present to the minds of the parties
when entering into the stipulation respecting repairs that
followed. And this being so, it is difficult to deny, but that
these stipulations were made as fixing the proportion or share
of these general improvements which should be imposed on
the company, namely, they should keep in good condition
and repair eight or sixteen feet, as they used a single or double
track, along the entire length of the road. They were notto
grade, pave, macadamize, fill, or plank even the above width
or distance, except so far as such work came within the category of repairs.
What adds great weight to this view is, it accords with the
practical construction given to the contract by both parties.
It was entered into, as we have seen, on the 23d May, 1859.
Several of these special assessments were authorized subsequently by the common council and collected, but no attempt
was made to assess the railroad property of the company.
Nor was any question raised as to its exemption till 1866, and
not then by the city, but by some of the proprietors of lots
fronting on the streets. In cases where the language used
by the parties to the contract is indefinite or ambiguous,
and, hence, of doubtful construction, the practical interpretation by the parties themselves is entitled to great, if not controlling, influence. The interest of each, generally, leads him
to a construction most favorable to himself, and when the difference has become serious, and beyond amicable adjustment,
it can be settled only by the arbitrament of the law. But,
in an executory contract, and where its execution necessarily
involves a practical construction, if the minds of both parties
concur, there can be no great danger in the adoption of it by
the court as the true one.

Dec. 1869.]

CHICAGO V.

SHELDON.

Opinion of the court.

There is another consideration in the case entitled to
weight in the interpretation of this contract; and that is the
language of the contract made between the city and the company in 1864.* This ordinance is in pari materia with the
one of 1859, and helps to explain any ambiguity in it.
We may add, also, that the learned judge who delivered
the opinion of the court, maintaining the liability of this company to the payment of the assessment, does not place his
opinion upon the ground that the contract did not exempt
it, but that the legislature were disabled by the constitution
of the State from conferring any such power on the city. The
objection is founded on the clauses of the constitution, which
provide that taxes shall be levied so that each person shall pay
in proportion to the value of his property; and that where
corporate authorities of counties, cities, &c., are authorized
to levy and collect taxes for corporate purposes, the taxes
shall be uniform in respect to persons and property.
We are not concerned to deal with thest provisions, as it
is perfectly settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State that, according to the true construction of them,
they do not forbid the legislature commuting with individ-,
uals or corporate bodies the burdens of general or specific
taxes or assessments, of the character of those in question,
for what they may deem an equivalent. This has been so
frequently decided that we need only refer to the cases.t It
is supposed by the counsel for the city that this doctrine has
been modified by the recent cases of Chicago v. Larned, decided in 1864, and The ,Samev. Baer, in 1866. But, on looking into these cases, we find no references to the cases above
cited, or to the doctrine they maintain. If it were otherwise, however, we could not agree that such decisions could
have the effect to invalidate the contract in question. A
contract having been entered into between the parties, valid
at the time, by the laws of the State, it is not competent
* Se

it, supra, p. 52.
t Illinois Central Railroad v. County of McLean, 17 Illinois, 291 ; Hunsaker v. Wright, 30 Id. 146; Neustadt v. Illinois Central Railroad, 31 Id.
484.

UNITED STATES V.

ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

even for its legislature to pass an act impairing its obliga'tion, much less could any decision of its courts have that
effect.
A point is made, that the legislature have not conferred,
or intended to confer, authority upon the city to make this
contract. We need only say that full power was not only
conferred, but that the contract itself has been since ratified

by this body.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.
1. Under the act of Mfarch 12th, 1863, commonly called the 'I Abandoned
or Captured Property Act," it is not necessary that a party preferring
his claim in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of property taken and
sold under it, to prove, in addition to his own loyalty, the loyalty of the
persons from whom he bought the property taken and sold; the property
having been purchased by him in good faith, and without intent to defraud the government or any one else.
2. Notwithstanding the 4th section of the act of June 25th, 1868, the vendors
of the property so taken and sold are competent witnesses, on a claim
preferred by the owners in the Court of Claims, in supporting such
claim, if they themselves never had any title, claim, or right against
the government, and are not interested in the suit.
8. As respects rights intended to be secured by the above-mentioned Abandoned or Captured Property Act, "the suppression of the rebellion" is to
be regarded as having taken place on the 20th of August, 1866, on which
day the President by proclamation declared it suppressed in Texas "and
throughout the whole of the United States of America," that same date
being apparently adopted by Congress in a statute continuing a certain
rate of pay to soldiers in the army "for three years after the close of
ithe rebellion, as announced by the President of the United States, by
proclamation bearing date August 20th, 1866."
A. 'Under the Captured or Abandoned Property Act, the Court of Claims
may render judgment not only generally for the claimant, but for a
specific sum as due to him.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
Congress, by act of July 13th, 1861,* passed soon after
,the outbreak of the late rebellion, enacted that it might be
APPEAL

* 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

