UNITED STATES V.

ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

even for its legislature to pass an act impairing its obliga'tion, much less could any decision of its courts have that
effect.
A point is made, that the legislature have not conferred,
or intended to confer, authority upon the city to make this
contract. We need only say that full power was not only
conferred, but that the contract itself has been since ratified

by this body.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.
1. Under the act of Mfarch 12th, 1863, commonly called the 'I Abandoned
or Captured Property Act," it is not necessary that a party preferring
his claim in the Court of Claims for the proceeds of property taken and
sold under it, to prove, in addition to his own loyalty, the loyalty of the
persons from whom he bought the property taken and sold; the property
having been purchased by him in good faith, and without intent to defraud the government or any one else.
2. Notwithstanding the 4th section of the act of June 25th, 1868, the vendors
of the property so taken and sold are competent witnesses, on a claim
preferred by the owners in the Court of Claims, in supporting such
claim, if they themselves never had any title, claim, or right against
the government, and are not interested in the suit.
8. As respects rights intended to be secured by the above-mentioned Abandoned or Captured Property Act, "the suppression of the rebellion" is to
be regarded as having taken place on the 20th of August, 1866, on which
day the President by proclamation declared it suppressed in Texas "and
throughout the whole of the United States of America," that same date
being apparently adopted by Congress in a statute continuing a certain
rate of pay to soldiers in the army "for three years after the close of
ithe rebellion, as announced by the President of the United States, by
proclamation bearing date August 20th, 1866."
A. 'Under the Captured or Abandoned Property Act, the Court of Claims
may render judgment not only generally for the claimant, but for a
specific sum as due to him.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
Congress, by act of July 13th, 1861,* passed soon after
,the outbreak of the late rebellion, enacted that it might be
APPEAL

* 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

57

Statement of the case.

lawful for the President, by proclamation, to declare that
the inhabitants of any State or part of a State where such
insurrection was existing were in a state of such insurrection,
and that thereupon (with a proviso that the President might,
to a limited extent and under regulations to be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, license it) all "commercial
intercourse by and between the same and citizens thereof;
and citizens of the rest of the United States, should cease,
and be unlawful so long as such condition of hostility should
continue." By a subsequent act of July, 17th, 1862,* it was
enacted"That to insure the speedy termination of the present rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President of the United States
to cause the seizure of all the estate and property, rloney, stocks,
credits, and effects of the persons hereinafter named in this section, and to apply and use the same and the proceeds thereof
for the support of the army of the United States."

The enumeration of persons includes several classes of
persons; and the section concludes by declaring that
"All sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such property
shall be null and void."
Another section goes on to say:
"And if any person within any State or Territory of the
United States, other than those named as aforesaid, after the
passage of this act, being engaged in armed rebellion against
the government of the United States, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, shall not within sixty days after public warning
and proclamation duly given and made by the President of the
United States, cease to aid, countenance, and abet such rebellion,
and return to his allegiance to the United States, all the estate
and property, money, stocks, and credits of such persons shall
be liable to seizure as aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the
President to seize and use them as aforesaid, or the proceeds
thereof. And all sales, transfers, or conveyances of any such prop* 12 Stat. at Large, 590.

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

erty, after the expiration of the said sixty days from the date of such
warning and proclamation, shall be null and void."
By a still later act, one passed when the armies of the
United States were beginning to march into the rebellious
regions-the act, namely, of March 12th, 1863*-entitled
"An act to provide for the collection of abandoned property,
&c., in insurrectionary districts within the United States," it
was provided as fbllows:
"Any person claiming to have been the owner of any such
abandoned or captured property may, at any time within two years
after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof in the Court of Claims; and on proof to the satisfaction of said court (1) of his ownership of said property, (2) of
his right to the proceeds thereof, and (3)that he has never given
any aid or comfort to the present rebellion, receive the residue
of such proceeds, after the deduction of any purchase-money
which may have been paid, together with the expense of transportation and sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses attending the disposition thereof."*
The time mentioned in this act as that within which a
party might prefer his claim, "any time," to wit, "within
two years after the suppression of the rebellion," was one
which, as events in the conclusion of the rebellion subsequently proved, was not, to common apprehension, entirely
definite. As matter of fact, rebellious districts were brought
under the control of the government in different parts of the
South at different times, and in April, 1865, the armies of
the rebel generals Lee and Johnston surrendered; their
surrender being followed by that of Taylor's army, on the
4th of May, and by that of Kirby Smith's, on the 26th of the
same month. With this last-named surrender, all armed resistance, in the least formidable, to the authority of the government ceased, and, as matter offact, the rebellion was prostrate, though rebel cruisers continued their depredations on
our commerce, and though there were, in Texas and else* 12 Stat. at Large, 820.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
Statement of the case.

where, some wandering bands of robbers. Still, after Kirby
Smith's surrender, May 26th, 1865, intercourse, commercial
and other, between the inhabitants of the different sections,
began to resume itself; trade opened, more or less, on its
ancient basis, remittances were made, debts were paid or
compromised, and bills of exchange were drawn between the
inhabitants of the two sections.
The courts, which, in each section, bad been closed to the
inhabitants of the other, were soon opened, in form at least.
The Court of Claims assumed jurisdiction of cases under the
Abandoned Property Act, and between the termination of
actual hostilities and the date fixed by the court below as
the legal suppression of the rebellion (20th August, 1866),
thirty causes were commenced in that court under the act,
and jurisdiction of them entertained.
In this court, the causes pending at the beginning of the
war to which inhabitants of the States in rebellion were parties, and which had been suspended and postponed from
term to term during the continuance of the war, were, at the
December Term, 1865, by the order of the court, called and
heard in their order on the calendar, or on special days to
which they were assigned.
Post-offices were reopened;* the letting of contracts for
mail service throughout the rebellious States resumed ;t and
the revenue system extended throughout the same States.:
The Federal courts, too, were reopened in the insurrectionary districts.
But notwithstanding all this, the late rebellious States
were not politically restored to the Union, nor were many of
them so restored till long afterwards. On the contrary, many
of them were kept under military government, in virtue of
statutes of the United States known as the reconstruction
acts. And the complete status ante bellum was not yet visible.
So far as executive recognitions of the date when the rebellion was to be assumed to have been " suppressed" were
t lb. 1865, pp. 9, 10.
Postmaster-General's Report, 1868, p. 263.
$ Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, 1865, pp. 29, 30.

UNITED

STATES V. ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

concerned, the government issued three proclamations, one
dated June 13th, 1865,* in relation to the suppression of the
rebellion in Tennessee; another, dated April 2d, 1866,t in
regard to the suppression of the rebellion in the States of
Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Florida; and the third,dated
August 201h, 1866,j declaring the rebellion suppressed in Texas,
"and throughout the whole of the United States qf America."
And an act of Congress, passed March 2d, 1867,ยง declared
that a previous act of Congress, passed June 20th, 1864,11
to increase the pay of soldiers in the army, should be "continued in full force and effect for three years after the close
of the rebellion, as announced by the Presidentof the United States,
by proclamation bearing date August 20th, 1866."
In this state of enactments, proclamation, and fact, one
Anderson, a free man of color, possessed of real and personal
property, by occupation a drayman and cotton sampler, and
a resident of Charleston, South Carolina, preferred, on the
5th of June, 1868, to the Court of Claims, under the provisions
of the already-mentioned " Abandoned Property Act" of
1863, as it was familiarly styled, a claim for the residue of the
proceeds of some cotton.
Twenty days after Anderson preferred his claim to the
Court of Claims-that is to say, on the 25th June, 1868Congress passed a law,
"That no plaintiff, or claimant, or any person, from or through
whom any such' plaintiff or claimant derives his alleged title,
claim or right against the United States, or any person interested in any such title, claim, or right, shall be a competent witness in the Court of Claims in supporting any such title, claim,
or right."
When the matter came on afterwards to be heard, Anderson proved this case (proving it, in part, by two persons,
the one named Fleming, and the other Doucen, who resided
within the insurrectionary district, and from whom he had
" 13 Stat. at Large, 763.
1b. 422, 2.

t 14 Id. 811.
1 1"3
Id. 144.

1 814.
lb.
15 Id. 4.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.
Statement of the case.

bought the cotton), the case, to wit, that he had bought part
of the cotton in the early part of the war, and the rest in the
autumn of 1864, before the evacuation of Charleston by the
rebels; that on the 5th March, 1865, the military authorities
of the United States being now in possession of Charleston,
he reported it to them, and that on the 5th of April following, it was removed, under their direction, from its place of
deposit to the Charleston custom-house, whence it was shipped
to New York, and there sold for the United States, and the
gross proceeds paid into the treasury; the net proceeds
amounting to $6723. The loyalty of Fleming and Doucen,
from whom the cotton was purchased, was not proven, but
that of Anderson was, and that he had never given any
aid or comfort to the rebellion, or to the persons who were
engaged in it.
In the Court of Claims, the counsel for the government
urged four principal grounds of objection to the allowance
of the claim.
1st. That the action was barred by the limitation in the
statute of March 12th, 1863.
2d. That if in this they were mistaken, still that the suit
must fail, because the persons who sold the property to Anderson, being residents of an insurrectionary district, were
unable; under the state of the law on this subject, to convey
title to him.
3d. That the vendors of the cotton in question were incompetent witnesses, by reason of the act of 25th June, 1865, and
that their testimony should have been excluded.
4th. That the court had no authority to render judgment
for a specific sum, its power being limited to the point of
deciding whether the claimant was entitled to recover at all,
leaving the amount to be determined by computation by the
proper officers of the Treasury Department.
But the Court of Claims held:
1st. That the claim was not barred by the limitation mentioned.
2d. That the cotton had not been ipso facto forfeited because it had belonged to persons resident in the insurrec-

UNITED STATES V.

ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

tionary district, no proceedings having been instituted to
confiscate the same as the property of such persons.
3d. That the vendors of the property were not incompetent witnesses.
4th. That upon the whole case the claimant was entitled
to judgment for the net proceeds as proved.
The correctness of these several rulings was the matter
now here for review.
Mr. boar, Attorney- General,and'Mr. R. S. Hale, special counsel, for the United States:
1. Was Anderson's claim, which was preferred on the 5th
of June, 1868, preferred at any time within two years after
the suppression of the rebellion ?
The question when a suppression of the rebellion was
made is a question of the actual termination of the war, and
one distinct from the political question of the continuance'
of the rights of war, after the termination in fact of hostilities. The true test of the existence of civil war was tersely
stated by Grier, J., speaking for the court in the Prize Cases.*
"When the regular course of justice is interrupted by revolt, rebellion, or insurrection, so that the courts of justice
cannot be kept open, civil war exists," &c. The test of its termination is logically the same. When the armed organization against the government has ceased to exist, when the
courts of justice are no longer prevented by violence, there
isno longer civil war, and the rebellion is suppressed. Now,
after the surrender of Kirby Smith, armed resistance to the
authority of the United States ceased, the civil war was
ended, and the rebellion suppressed, as matter of fact. In
the universal speech of the people, "the war was over."
This is an historical fact, of which this court will take judicial
cognizance. Their own proceedings and the call of their
docket show it. But the fact is part of public history, and
universally known. From that date, all claimants were entitled to sue in the Court of Claims, under the act of 12th
* 2 Black, 667.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES

V. ANDERSON.

Argument for the United States.

March, 1863, and at the expiration of two years from that
date (26th May, 1867), their right to sue terminated. The
claim was therefore too late.
The various proclamations of the President did not create
the condition of peace, but were executive recognitions of
the fact that peace was restored, just as the actions of the
courts were judicial recognitions of the same fact.
But if executive action is requisite to establish the fact of
the suppression of the rebellion, then the proclamation of
April 2d, 1866, does it as respects South Carolina; and the
cause of action having arisen in that State the statute began
to run whenever the rebellion was suppressed there. If this
is so, the claim is still too late.
As to the act of Congress of March 2d, 1867, its object
was not to determine the end of the rebellion, either for judicial or legislative purposes, but to fix a definite time when
the additional pay given to soldiers by the act of 20th June,
1864, should terminate. And it does not, in terms, fix the
end of the rebellion; but fixes the desired day by recital
from "the close of the rebellion, as announeed by t/e President," &c. To give to it the effect of fixing the close of the
rebellion for the purposes of the Abandoned and Captured
Property Act, or for any other judicial or legislative purpose,
would be to give it an effect not contemplated by Congress.
2. The loyalty of Fleming and Doucen, who sold the cotton to Anderson, is not proven. They resided in South
Carolina, and such residence fixes on them; in the absence
of proof of loyalty, rebel character. Sales by them, under
the act of July 17th, 1862, are " null and void." Nor is the
act of 1862 repealed by the Abandoned and Captured Property Act. These acts are to a limited extent in pari materia,
and are so far to be construed by the aid of each other. But
in their principal scope they relate to different subjects, provide for different ends, and contain no provisions inconsistent
with each other, so that both cannot stand. The proof of
ownership required under the latter act is of necessity lawful
ownership, as well under the act of 1862 as under all other
subsisting laws.

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct,.

Opinion of the court.

But this is no longer an open question in this court since
the case of McKee v. United States.* The language of the
court is :
"This statute prohibited a person occupying the position
A. W. McKee did from selling his property; and it follows, as
he had no capacity to dispose of it, that the claimant could
acquire no title to it."
[The remaining two points taken below, though still insisted on, were less pressed by the learned counsel here.]
Messrs. J. A. Wills, G. Taylor, T. J. D. Fuller, A. G. Riddle,
and W. P. Clarke, contra, for the claimant in this case, or for
claimants in other cases involving the same general questions, and argued with this one and disposed of by the
opinion in it.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the positions taken by the learned counsel of the
United States in the court below, and maintained in this
court also, are well taken or not depends on the construction to be given the act concerning abandoned and captured
property, and the 4th section of the act of June 25th, 1868.
The act of March 12th, 1863, in one particular, inaugurated a policy different from that which induced the passage
of other measures rendered necessary by the obstinacy and
magnitude of the resistance to the supremacy of the National
authority. To overcome this resistance, and to carry on the
war successfully, the entire people of the States in rebellion
were considered as public enemies; but it is fhmiliar history
that there were many persons whom necessity required
should be treated as enemies who were friends, and adhered
with fidelity to the National cause. This class of people,
compelled to live among those who were combined to overthrow the Federal authority, and liable at all times to be
stripped of their property by the usurped government, were
* 8 Wallace, 163.

Dee. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

65

Opinion of the court.

objects of sympathy to the loyal people of this country, and
their unfortunate condition was appreciated by Congress.
During the progress of the war it was expected that our
forces in the field would capture property, and, as the enemy
retreated, that property would remain in the country without
apparent ownership, which should be collected and disposed
of. In this condition of things Congress acted. While providing for the disposition of this captured 'and abandoned
property, Congress recognized the status of the loyal Southern people, and distinguished between property owned by
them, and the property of the disloyal. It was not required
to do this, for all the property obtained in this manner could,
by proper proceedings, have been appropriated to the necessities of the war. But Congress did not think proper to do
this. In a spirit of liberality it constituted the government
a trustee for so much of this property as belonged to the
faithful Southetm people, and while directing that all of it
should be sold and its proceeds paid into the treasury, gave
to this class of persons an opportunity, at any time within
two years after the suppression of the rebellion, to bring
their suit in the Court of Claims, and establish their right
to the proceeds of that portion of it which they owned, requiring from them nothing but proof of loyalty and ownership.
It is true the liberality of Congress in this regard was not
confined to Southern owners, for the law is general in its
terms, and protects all loyal owners; but the number of
Northern citizens who could, in any state of the case, be
bona fide owners of this kind of property was necessarily
few, and their condition, although recognized in the law,
did not induce Congress to incorporate in it the provision
we are considering.
The measure, in itself of great beneficence, was practically important only in its application to the loyal Southern
people, and sympathy for their situation doubtless prompted
Congress to pass it. It is in view of this state of things, as
it is the duty of a court in construing a law to consider the
circumstances under which it was passed and the object to
VOL. IX.

5

66

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

be accomplished by it, that we are called upon to apply this
particular provision to the facts of this case. The loyalty
of the claimant is not questioned, but his ownership, in the
sense of the law, of the property in dispute is denied.
It is not denied that he purchased the property in good
faith for value, and with no purpose to defraud the government or any one else; but it is said the persons from whom
he bought resided in South Carolina, were presumed to be
rebels, and were, therefore, prohibited from selling.
This is an attempt to import from the confiscation law of
July 17th, 1862, into this law, a disability which it does not
contain. If this could be done, but very little benefit would
accrue to the loyal people of the South from the privilege
conferred on them by the law in questicn. It is well known
that nearly all the Southern people were engaged in the rebellion, and that those who were not thus employed furnished the exception rather than the rule. Few as they
were, the necessities of life required that they should buy
and sell, and, equally so, that their trading should be free
and unrestricted.
This condition of things Congress was aware of, and if it
had been its purpose to limit the privilege in controversy to
the loyal citizen, who happened to acquire his property from
another person equally loyal, they would have said so. But
Congress had no such narrow policy in view. Its policy in
the matter was broad and comprehensive, and embraced
within its range all persons who had adhered to the Union.
It treated all alike, and did not discriminate in favor of the
person who could trace his title through a loyal source, and
against him who was not so fortunate. It did not consider
the loyal planter, who raised his own cotton and rice, as
entitled to any more protection than the dweller in the cities
and towns who lived by traffic, and bought where he could
buy the cheapest.
The confiscation law, however, was not intended to apply
to a person occupying the status of this claimant. The purpose which Congress had in view in passing that law was
very difierent from that which induced it, in the Captured

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

67

Opinion of the court.

and Abandoned Property Act, to extend a privilege to the
loyal owner. The confiscation law concerns rebels and their
property; was intended as a measure to cripple their resources; and, in so far as it claims the right to seize and
condemn their property, as a punishment for their crimes,
recognizes that certain legal proceedings are necessary to do
so. But by the act in question the government yielded its
right to seize and condemn the property which it took in
the enemy's country if it belonged to a faithful citizen, and
substantially said to him, "We are obliged to take the property of friend and foe alike, which we will sell and deposit
the proceeds of in the treasury; and if, at any time within
two years after the suppression of the rebellion, you prove
satisfactorily that of the property thus taken you owned a
part, we will pay you the net amount received from its sale."
The two acts cannot be construed in parimaterid. The one
is penal, the other remedial; the one claims a right, the other
concedes a privilege.
It is said the vendors of the cotton were incompetent witnesses by reason of the 4th section of the act of June 25th,
1868, which declares that no plaintiff or claimant, or any
person from or through whom any such plaintiff or claimant
derives his alleged title, claim, or right against the United
States, or any person interested in any such title, claim, or
right, shall be a competent witness in the Court of Claims in
supporting any such title, claim, or right.
There are three classes of persons who are, by this section,
prohibited from testiting. The claimant cannot testify,
nor can the person who, after a claim has accrued to him
against the United States, has sold or transferred it to the
claimant, nor can any one who is interested in the event of
the suit. Doucen and Fleming, the immediate vendors of
Anderson, are not excluded by this rule. They were not
interested in the suit, and in no sense (lid Anderson derive
his claim against the United States through them. They
never had any claim against the United States, because when
the property was taken it belonged to Anderson, and it is

UNITED STATES V.

ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

only after the property was sold that Anderson's claim even
to the proceeds attached. If the property in transitu from
Charleston to New York had been lost, no claim could arise
under the law in favor of Anderson against the United States,
his claim being contingent upon the proceeds of the property
finally reaching the treasury.
But the point most pressed in the argument against the
right to recover in this case relates to the limitation in the
law. It is contended that the claim was barred by this limitation, as it was not preferred until the 5th of June, 1868.
It' is, therefore, necessary to determine when the time for
preferring claims commenced, and when it ended. The
words of the statute on this subject are, that any person
claiming to be the owner of abandoned or captured property
may, at any time within two years after the suppression of
the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof in the
Court of Claims. There is certainly nothing in the words
of this provision which disables a person from preferring his
claim immediately after the proceeds of his property have
reached the treasury, and there is no good reason why a different interpretation should be given them. On the contrary,
there is sufficient reason in the nature of the legislation on
this subject, apart from the letter of the law, to bring the
mind to the conclusion that Congress intended to give the
claimant an immediate right of action. The same motive
that prompted Congress to grant the privilege to prefer a
claim at all, operated to allow it to be done so soon as the
property had been converted into money. If in the condition of the country, it was known that the Union men of the
South, as a general thing, would be unable to prosecute
their claims while the war lasted, still it was recognized that
some persons might be fortunate enough to do so, and to
meet the requirements of their cases the right to sue at once
was conferred. In the progress of the war, as our armies
advanced and were able to afford protection to the Union
people, it was expected that many of them, availin themselves of the opportunity, would escape into the National

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V.

ANDERSON.

Opinion of the court.

lines, and be thus in a condition to secure the rights conceded
to them by this statute; and the history of the times informs
us that this expectation was realized. To impute to Congress
a design to compel these people, impoverished as they were
known to be, to wait until the war was over before they
could institute proceedings in the Court of Claims, would
be inconsistent with the general spirit of the statute, and
cannot be entertained. If, then, the right to prefer a claim
attached as soon as the money reached the treasury, when
did it expire? The law says two years after the rebellion
was suppressed; but the question recurs, when is the rebellion to be considered suppressed, as regards the rights
intended to be secured by this statute ? It is very clear that
the limitation applied to the entire suppression of the rebellion, and that no one was intended to be affected by its suppression in any particular locality. It might be suppressed
in one State and not in another, but the citizen of the State
that had ceased hostilities was in no better or worse position
in this regard than the citizen of the State where hostilities
were active. The limitation was not partial in its character,
but operated on all persons alike who are affected by it; was
dependent on the solution of a great problem, and an interpretation of it which would prescribe one rule for the people
of one State, and a different rule for those living in another
State, cannot be allowed to prevail.
The point, therefore, for determination is, when, in the
sense of this law, was the rebellion entirely suppressed. And
in this connection it is proper to say, that the purposes of
this suit do not require us to discuss the question-which
may have an important bearing on other cases-whether
the rebellion can be considered as suppressed for one purpose and not for another, nor any of the kindred questions
arising out of it, and we therefore express no opinion on the
subject.
The inquiry with which we have to deal concerns its suppression only in its relation to those persons who are within
the protection of this law. It is argued, as the rebellion was
in point of fact suppressed when the last Confederate general

UNITED STATES

V. ANDERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

surrendered to the National authority, that the limitation
began to run from that date. If this were so, there is an
end to the controversy; but did Congress mean, when it
passed the statute in question, that the Union men of the
South, whose interests are especially cared for by it, should,
without any action by Congress or the Executive on the subject, take notice of the day that armed hostilities ceased between the contending parties, and if they did not present
their claims within two years of that time, be forever barred
of their recovery? The inherent difficulty of determining
such a matter, renders it certain that Congress did not intend to impose on this class of persons the necessity of deciding it for themselves. In a foreign war, a treaty of peace
would be the evidence of the time when it closed, but in a
domestic war, like the late one, some public proclamation
or legislation would seem to be required to inform those
whose private rights were affected by it, of the time when it
terminated, and we are of the opinion that Congress did not
intend that the limitation in this act should begin to run
until this was done. There are various acts of Congress
and proclamations of the President bearing on the subject,
but in the view we take of this case, it is only necessary to
notice the proclamation of the President, of August 20th,
1866, and the act of Congress of the 2d of March, 1867.
On the 20th day of August, 1866, the President of the
United States, after reciting certain proclamations and acts
of Congress concerning the rebellion, and his proclamation
of 2d of April, 1866, that armed resistance had ceased everywhere except in the State of Texas, did proclaim that it had
ceased there also, and that the whole insurrection was at an
end, and that peace, order, and tranquillity existed throughout the whole of the United States of America. This is the
first official declaration that we have, on the part of the Executive, that the rebellion was wholly suppressed, and we
have shown, in a previous part of this opinion, that the limitation, in its effects on the persons whose rights we are considering, did not begin to run until the rebellion was suppressed throughout the whole country. But we are not

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ANDERSON.

Opinion of the court.

without the action of the legislative department of the government on this subject. On the 20th day of June, 1864,
Congress fixed the pay of non-commissioned officers and
privates, and declared that it should continue during the
rebellion; and on the 2d day of March 1867, it continued
this act in force for three years from and after the close of
the rebellion, as announced by the proclamation of the President.
Congress, then, having adopted the 20th day of August,
1866, in conformity with.the announcement of the President,
as the day the rebellion closed, for the purpose of regulating
the pay of non-commissioned officers and privates, can it be
supposed that it intended to lay down a harsher rule for the
guidance of the claimants under the Captured and Abandoned
Property Act, than it thought proper to apply to another class
of persons whose interests it equally desired to protect. In
order to reach this conclusion, it is necessary to ascribe to
Congress a policy regarding the statute under which this
claim is preferred foreign to the views we have expressed
concerning it. Besides, it would require us to construe two
acts differently, although relating to the same general subject,
in the absence of any evidence that such was the intention of
the legislature. If we are right as to the motive which
prompted Congress to pass the law in question, and the object to be accomplished by it, it is clear the point of time
should be construed most favorably to the person who adhered to the National Union, and who has proved the government took his property, and has the money arising from
its sale in the treasury.
As Congress, in its legislation for the army, has determined that the rebellion closed on the 20th day of August,
1866, there is no reason why its declaration on this subject
should not be received as settling the question wherever
private rights are affected by it. That day will, therefore,
be accepted as the day when the rebellion was suppressed,
as respects the rights intended to be secured by the Captured
and Abandoned Property Act.
The point taken that the court below was not authorized

UNITED STATES V.

GROSSMAYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to render judgment for a specific sum, but only to determine
whether the claimant was entitled to receive the proceeds
of his property, leaving it for an officer of the treasury to fix
the amount, cannot be sustained. To sustain this position,
would require us to hold that for this class of cases Congress
intended to constitute the Court of Claims a mere commission. This court will not attribute to Congress a purpose
that would lead to such a result, in the absence of an express
declaration to that effect.
It is proper to say, in conclusion, that the case of McKee
v. United States,* cited as an authority against the claimant's
right to recover, has no application whatever to this case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

INOTE.

Soon after judgment was rendered in the case which precedes, was decided also another case under the same acts of
Congress, but presenting a state of facts distinguishing it
from that case. It was the case of
UNITED STATES V.

GROSSMAYER.

1. Intercourse during war with an enemy is unlawful to parties standing in
the relation of debtor and creditor as much as to those who do not.
2. Conceding that a creditor may have an agent in an enemy's country to
whom his debtor there may pay a debt contracted before the war, yet
the agent must be one who was appointed before the war. He cannot
be one appointed during it.
3. A transaction originally unlawful-such as a person's unlawful trading
in behalf of another with an enemy-cannot be made lawful by any
ratification.

THIs case, like the one immediately preceding, was an appeal
from the Court of Claims, and was thus:
Elias Einstein, a resident of Macon, Georgia, was indebted,
when the late rebellion broke out, to Grossmayer, a resident of
8 Wallace, 163.

