Dec. 1869.]

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

of equity in the disposition of a common fund, of which
there are several claimants, are sufficient to show that the
judges of the Circuit Court were justified in authorizing
Foster and his associates to file their consolidated bill, and
thus present for consideration their claims to share in the
fund in the hands of the receiver, and in withholding the
distribution of the fund under the decree in the case of
iloward and others v. The City of Davenport and others, until
such claims could be considered and determined.
Whether in the determination of these claims the Circuit
Court decided rightly or otherwise, can only be settled upon
the hearing of the appeal from its decree.
It follows that the motion for a mandamus, and the motion
to dismiss the appeal from the final decree, must both be
DENIED.

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

1. Occupation and improvement on the public lands with a view to preemption, do not confer a vested right in the land so occupied.
2. It does confer a preference over others in the purch-se of such land by
the bonS fide settler, which will enable him to protect his possession
against other individuals, and which the land officers are bound to respect.
8. This inchoate right may be protected by the courts against the claims of
other persons who have not an equal or superior right, but it is not valid
against the United States.
4. The power of Congress over the public lands, as conferred by the Constitution, can only be restrained by the courts, in cases where the land

has ceased to be government property by reason of a right vested in
some person or corporation.
5. Such a vested right, under the pre-emption laws, is only obtained when
the purchase-money has been paid, and the receipt of the proper land
officer given to the purchaser.

6. Until this is done, it is within the legal and constitutional competency
of Congress to withdraw the land from entry or sale, though this may
defeat the imperfect right of the settler.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
In March, 1862, and for many years before, there was a

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

large body of land in California known as the Soscol Ranch,
and which was supposed by almost every one in that country
to be private property. The tract covered eighteen square
leagues, and included the city of Benicia, the town of Vallejo, the navy-yard of the United States, the depot of the
Pacific Steamship Company, and hundreds of acres of land
in cultivation and in possession of a large rural population.
These parties all claimed under grants to a certain Vallejo
by the Mexican government, made in 1843 and 1844, which
had been presented to the Board of Land Commissioners and
confirmed, and the decision of the board had been also
affirmed on appeal to the District Court.
In March, 1862, the case coming before this tribunal, the
court felt itself compelled to declare the grant void for want
of authority in the Mexican government to make it, and on
the 22d day of the month just named did so declare it; the
decision not in any way impeaching the good fiith of the
numerous purchasers under Vallejo. However, as the act
of Congress* which organized the Board of Commissioners
to determine the land titles in California, declared that when
any of the claims presented to it should finally be dcided to
be invalid the land should be considered as a part of the
public domain, the effect of the decision was, that the United
States became the absolute owner in fee of all the property,
as above described; city, town, depot, ranch, the houses, the
homes, the cultivated grounds and orchards, which the persons had bought and paid for, had built on and cultivated.
The occupants had nothing left, of course, but an appeal to
the equity and generosity of the government.
As soon as it became generally known in Benicia, and
among the population on and about the Soscol Ranch, that
this court had declared the Y llejo claim void, and that the
whole eighteen leagues were public land, a rush was made
to secure all of it that was valuable, and which it was supposed had become subject to the pre-emption laws. The
report of the register and receiver of the Land Office, who
were subsequently required to investigate the claims set up
* Act of 3d March, 1851,

13.

Dec. 1869.]

FRISBIE V.

WHITNEY.

Statement of the case.

to these lands, both by the Vallejo claimants and the settlers,
presents the mode in which this was done. The parties
desiring to make pre-emption claims generally went on the
lands in the night, because they were resisted by those in possession; and in the morning a house, eight or ten feet square,
with shed roof of redwood boards, set up edgewise, without
window, fireplace, or floor, was discovered, the evidence of
a bondfide settlement and occupation under the pre-emption
laws of the United States.
Among the persons who sought to obtain a property by
pre-emption right in this land was one Whitney, who, according to his own account, entered on a quarter-section one
afternoon, with his family, consisting of his wife, two children, a man, and a carpenter, with his team, goods, and
household furniture. He commenced building next day,
and made a better house than those above described. It
had three rooms. The quarter-section on which he entered
had been already occupied by one Frisbie, a son-in-law of
Vallejo, and one of the numerous persons in possession under
Vallejo's title. It was inclosed by a fence, had a crop not
yet gathered, and a house occupied by a tenant of Frisbie.
Whitney's occupation was resisted by Frisbie, who on one
occasion seized a double-barrelled shot-gun of Whitney's,
cocked it at him, and stood in a menacing attitude, Whitney
twisting it out of his hands.
On the 3d March, 1863, after the effect of the decision in
United States v. Vallejo became knmown, and after Congress had
had time to examine into the case, that body passed an act
for the benefit of these occupants of the Vallejo claim.* This
act authorized the lines of the public surveys to be extended
over the Soscol Ranch, and enacted that bonafide purchasers
from Vallejo or his assigns might enter the lands so purchased and reduced to possession at the time of the adjudication of the Supreme Court, at one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre. Under this act Frisbie paid his money, made
his entry, and finally received his patent.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 808.

FRISBIE v.

WHITNEY.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

When, on the other hand, shortly after his settlement
above described, Whitney applied to the land officers to
make his declaration of intention to occupy and cultivate the
land, they refused to receive it; first, because no surveys had
been made by which the land could be identified, and afterwards because Congress had passed the act already cited for
the benefit of the claimants under Vallejo. He never paid
any money to the government, nor did he receive a certificate of entry or pre-emption, though he offered to prove his
settlement.
In this state of things Whitney filed a bill in the court
below, setting forth such of the preceding facts as bore favorably on his case, setting forth also thatVallejo's title had been
declared void by this court on the 24th March, 1862, and
that the land had so become part of the public domain, and
subject to the right of pre-emption, and that he had settled
upon it, erecting a dwelling-house, which he occupied with
his family, cultivating, &c.; that the act of the 3d of March,
1863, had been passed at the solicitation of Vallejo, and purchasers under him. The bill proceeded:
"But your orator insists that after the decision of the Snpreme Court of the United States in March, 1862, and before
the passage of the special act of March 3d, 1863, above mentioned, the said lands were by law open to pre-emption; and
your orator having within that period made a bond fide settlement, and having fully complied with all the conditions prescribed by law, is vested with the right to enter said lands."
It, therefore, prayed that as he, Whitney, had the superior
equity, Frisbie should be compelled to convey the land to
him.
Frisbie answered setting forth such of the already stated
facts as affected favorably his case' denying the sufficiency
of the settlement set up, admitting the decision of the Supreme Court, asserting that "the effect of that decision
upon the rights of the purchasers under that grant, who
had by themselves and their tenants settled and improved
the land, was a question of law;" but maintaining "that it

Dec. 1869.]

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

Opinion of the court.

did not subject the said.land to settlement and pre-emption
by strangers."
There was no great controversy apparently about the facts,
and the court below, citing and relying on United Stales v.
Fitzgerald,* Smith v. United States,t Delassus v. United States,t
and Lytle v. The State of Arkansas,ยง was of the opinion "that
at the date of the complainant's entry on the land in controversy, in October, 1862, it was open to actual settlement and
pre-emption; that he having mode his actual settlement and
improvement on the land, and complied with all the terms
and conditions required by Jaw to complete his title, or tendered performance thereof, was entitled to have a patent for
the land, and obtained such an interest and vested title and
property therein as could not be taken from him and transferred to another, against his consent, even by an act of
Congress." It accordingly held Frisbie a trustee for Whitney, and decreed the conveyance prayed for.
The-case was now brought here on appeal by Frisbie.
Messrs. Evarts, Blair, and Dick, for the appellant; Messrs.
13. F. Butler and F. P. Stanton, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Frisbie having become possessor of the legal title to the
land in controversy, the complainant, Whitney, claims that
lie shall be compelled to convey it to him, because he has the
superior equity; for this is a suit in a court of equity, founded
on its special jurisdiction in matters of trust. It is, therefore, essential to inquire into the foundation of this supposed
equity.
When, shortly after his settlement, Whitney applied to
the land officers to make his declaration of intention to occupy and cultivate the land, they refused to receive it; first,
because no surveys had been made by which the land could
be identified, and afterwards because Congress had passed
15 Peters, 407.

t 10 Id. 330.

.19 Id. 133.

10 Howard, 333.

FRISBIE V.

WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the act already cited for the benefit of the claimants under
Vallejo. He never paid any money to the government, never
received a certificate of entry or pre-emption, though he
offered to prove up his settlement; and he claims that his
intrusion on Frisbie's inclosed grounds by violence, and his
offer to prove his intention to bedome a bonafde occupant of
the land, create an equity superior to Frisbie's, which demands of a court of chancery to divest Frisbie of his legal
title and vest it in him.
If there be any principle of law which requires this, the
court must be governed by it, but it is idle to pretend that
such a decree would be founded in natural justice.
It is claimed on the part of the defendant in error that
such a principle is found in the legislation of Congress granting the right of pre-emption to actual settlers on the public
lands of the United States. The proposition is, that as soon
as the decree of the Supreme Court was announced declaring the Vallejo claim invalid, the land covered by tbt claim
became public land, subject to the operation of all the laws
by which the actual settler could secure title to such lands;
and that the steps taken by Whitney in this direction had so
far effected this purpose, that the act of Congress for the
benefit of the Vallejo claimants was ineffbetual to enable
Frisbie to avail himself of the benefits which it was intended
to confer. We say the benefits it designed to confer, because
we entertain no doubt of the intention of Congress to secure
to persons situated as Frisbie was, the title to their lands, on
compliance with the terms of the act, and if this has not'been
done it is solely because Congress had no power to enact the
law in question.
The learned court whose decision we are reviewing place
their judgment on the ground that, before the passage of that
act, the complainant had acquired a vested right in the land,
which could not be divested by any legislation of Congress.
On the other hand it will hardly be contended that anything
short of a vested right in this land could deprive Congress
of the right which it has as owner and holder of the legal
title, and, by the express language of the Constitution, to

Dec. 1869.]

FRIsBIE V. 'WHITNEY.
Opinion of the court.

dispose of and make all needfui rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property of the United States.
The essential inquiry in this case, therefore, is whether complainant had acquired such a vested right, before Congress
by law withdrew these lands from the operation of the preemption acts.
It has been argued that no law existed at the time Whitney
went upon the land, by ivhich unsurveyed land could be
legally entered upon with a view to pre-emption. But in
the view which the court takes of the matter, it may be assumed that the lands were open to pre-emption. In this
concession we also propose to waive the discussion of another
question which presents serious difficulties to our minds, in
regard to complainant's right to make a valid pre-emption
by a forcible intrusion upon land cultivated, inclosed, and
peaceably occupied by another man.
But resolving this difficulty in favor of complainant for the
present, we are still of opinion that he had not acquired a
vested right in the land when Congress acted upon the
subject.
What had he done? le had gone upon the land, built a
house and barn, and perhaps inclosed some of the ground.
He had also applied to the register of the land office, and
offered to make a declaration that he had done these things
with the intention of making a permanent settlement, and
claiming the land under the right of pre-emption. This is
all. He had paid no money, nor had he then tendered any.
The land officers refused to receive his declaration, and denied his right to pre-empt the land. He never has paid any
money, has never received any certificate of pre-emiption,
and the register and receiver have never, in any manner,
acknowledged or admitted his right to make pre-emption of
that land. So far as anything done by him is to be considered, his claim rests solely upon his going upon the land and
building and residing on it. There is nothing in the essential nature of these acts to confer a vested right, or indeed
any kind of claim to land, and it is necessary to resort to
the pre-emption law to make out any shadow of such right.
VOL. IX.

18

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The act of Congress on this subject, to which all the subsequent acts refer, and which prescribes the terms, and the
manner of securing title in such cases, is the act of September 4th, 1841.* That was an act full of generosity, for it
gave the proceeds of the sales of all the public lands to the
States. The tenth section of the act provides that any person of the class therein described who shall make a settlement upon public lands, of a defined character, and who
shall inhabit and improve the same, and who shall erect a
dwelling thereon, shall be authorized to enter with the
register of the proper land office, by legal subdivisions, one
quarter-section of said land, to include the residence of the
claimant, upon paying the minimum price of such land.
Section eleven provides that conflicting claims for pre-emption shall be settled by the register and receiver; section
twelve, that prior to such entry proof of the settlement and
improvement required shall be made to the satisfaction or
the register and receiver; and section thirteen requires an
oath to be made by the claimant before entry; section fifteen
requires a person settling on land with a view to pre-emption, to file within a limited time, a statement of this intention and a description.of the land.
When all these prerequisites are complied with, and the
.claimant has paid the price of the land, he is entitled to a
certificate of entry from the register and receiver; and after
a reasonable time, to enable the land officer to ascertain if
there are superior claims, and if in other respects the claimant has made out his case, he is entitled to receive a patent,
which for the first time invests him with the legal title to
the land.
The construction of this act, and others passed since in
parn materid, in regard to the nature of the rights conferred
on occupants of the public lands, has, of course, received
the consideration of that department of the government to
which the administration of these land laws has been confided. The construction of that department and of the Attorneys-General to whom the Secretaries of the Interior have
5 Stat. at Large, 458.

Dec. 1869.]

FRISBIE

v.

WHITNEY.

Opinion of the court.

applied for advice, cannot be better expressed than in the
language of some of those opinions.
Attorney-General Cushing, in an opinion given in 1856,*
says: "Persons who go upon the public land with a view to
cultivate now, and to purchase hereafter, possess no rights
against the United States, except such as the acts of Congress
confer; and these acts do not confer on the pre-eniptor, in
posse, any right or claim to be treated as the present proprietor of the land, in relation to the government."
In the matter of the Hot Springs tract of Arkansas, Attorney-General Bates says:t "A mere entry upon land,
with continued occupancy and improvement thereof, gives
no vested interest in it. It may, however, give, under our
National land system, a privilege of pre-emption. But this
is only a privilege conferred on the settler to purchase land
in preference to others. . . His settlement protects him
from intrusion or purchase by others, but confers no right
against the government."
In the matter of this same Soscol Ranch,t Attorney-General Speed asserts the same principle. He says: "It is not
to be doubted that settlement on the public lands of the
United States, no matter how long continued, confers no
right against the government. . . . The land continues
subject to the absolute disposing power of Congress, until
the settler has made the required proof of settlement and
improvement, and has paid the requisite purchase-money."
These opinions, written for the guidance of the Land Department, have been received and acquiesced in by the Secretaries of the Interior, and have come to be the recognized
rule of action in that department.
This construction of the law has also been asserted by the
courts of last resort in Missouri, Mississippi, Illinois, and
California; States in which the population is largely interested in the liberal operation of the pre-emption laws.ยง
8 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 72.

--10 Id. 57.

1 11 Id. 462.

Bower v. Higbee, 9 Missouri, 261 ; Phelps v. Kellogg, 15 Illinois, 135;
Grand Gulf v. Bryan, 8 Smodes & Marshall, 268; People v.Shearer, 30 California, 650; and Hutton v. Frisbie, in the Supreme Court of California, July
Term, 1869.

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We are satisfied that this is a sound construction of the
pre-emption laws on the question now under consideration.
A series of cases decided in this court, in which the equitable rights of persons claiming under those laws have been
protected by the court against the legal title acquired by
other parties, through the disregard of their rights by the
officers of the Land Department, is supposed to assert principles inconsistent with the construction just stated. We
cannot here examine these cases in detail, but we may state
that in nearly all of them it will be found that the party
whose equitable title was thus protected had, by the action
of the officers of the Land Department, and the payment
and acceptance of the price, acquired a vested right, which
these officers afterwards disregarded, in violation of law.
And if in any of these cases the party, asserting successfully
his equitable interest, had not acquired a vested right in the
just sense of that term, the cases are still widely different
from the one under consideration. In all those cases the successful party had established his legal right of preference of
purchase over the other, under the law as it stood when the
land officers decided the case. And it was the action of those
officers, and their disregard of the law in refusing to the
party the benefit of this preference in purchase, which this
court corrected, by compelling the conveyance of the legal
title acquired by this violation of law. But in the case before
us, and in those to which the opinions of the AttorneysGeneral refer, it was Congress, the law-making power, which
intervened, and, by a new law, withdrew the land from the
operation of the pre-emption laws, while the right of preference in purchase remained unexercised, and amounted to
no more than this preference.
The courts may very properly correct the injustice done
by the land officers, in refusing to accord rights, however
inchoate, which are protected by laws still in existence;
while they can only consider vested rights, when those rights
are sought to be enforced in opposition to the repeal or nmodification of the laws on which they were founded.
The argument is urged with much zeal that because com-

Dec. 1869.]

HICKMAN V. JONES.
Syllabus.

plainant did all that was in the power of any one to do towards perfecting his claim, he should not be held responsible
for what could not be done.
To this we reply, as we did in the case of Rector v. Ashly,*
that the rights of a claimant are to be measured by the acts
of Congress, and not by what he may or may not be able to
do, and if a sound construction of these acts shows that he
had acquired no vested interest in the land, then, as his
rights are created by the statutes, they must be governed by
their provisions, whether they be hard or lenient. That was
a case also in which it became important to ascertain when
a right to public land became vested, and though it arose
under statutes somewhat different from the general preemption law, the principles asserted there, and in the previous cases of Bagnell v. Broderick,t and Barry v. Gamblej
strongly support our conclusion in the present case.
DECREE REVERSED, and the case remanded, with instructions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

HICKMAN V. JONES ET AL.
1. A prosecution in a so-called "court of the Confederate States of America,"
for treason, in aiding the troops of the United States in the prosecution
of a miltary expedition against the said Confederate States, is a nullity,
and the fact that the tribunal had clothed itself in the garb of the law
gives no protection to persons who, assuming to be its oflicers, were the

instruments by which it acted.
2. Where there is evidence before the jury-whether it be weak or strongwhich does so much as tend to prove the issue on the part of either'side,
it is error if the court wrest it from the exercise of their judgment. It

should be submitted to them under instructions from the court.
8. The fact that a man was himself a traitor against the United States, does
not necessarily prevent his recovering damages against other traitors,

for having maliciously arrested and imprisoned him before a so-called
court of the Confederate States, for being a traitor to these ; the alleged
treason having consisted in his giving aid to the troops of the United

States while engaged in suppressing the rebellion.
*6 Wallace, 142.

t- 18 Peters, 436.

1 3 Howard, 32.

