De. 1869.]

THE, GRAY EAGLE.
Statement of the case.

being called, it was submitted by Hr. Field, Assistant AttorneyGeneral for the United States, no opposite counsel appearing.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This court cannot acquire jurisdiction of a cause pending
in a Circuit Court by transfer. This was determined at the
last term in the case of The Alicia.* In that case the record
had not been filed, and a motion was made to docket and
dismiss. That motion was denied, on the ground that the
court could not take jurisdiction. In this case the record
has been filed, and the cause has been docketed here. The
order, therefore, must be that the cause be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

THE GRAY EAGLE.
1. A neglect by one vessel, on approaching another in the night, to show
proper signal lights, or her showing a wrong one, does not absolve such
other vessel, under the act of Congress of April 29th, 1864, prescribing
the lights which sailing vessels shall carry, from obligation to observe

the usual laws of navigation, or such reasonable and practicable precautions generally as the circumstances allow.

2. A loss equally divided between two vessels, on facts, set forth in the case,
showing fault in both.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Wis-

consin.
The owners of the schooner Perseverance filed a libel in
the District Court of Wisconsin against the schooner Gray
Eagle, for a collision in which their vessel had been sunk.
The collision occurred in the Straits of Mackinaw, soon after
midnight of the 23d of November, 1864, the night not having been a dark one; not so dark at least as that the sails of
vessels could not be seen for near a quarter of a mile. The
Perseverance had lost her lights in a storm, and was sailing
* 7 Wallace, 572.

*

TiiE GRAY EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

with a white light, contrary to the rules prescribed by the
act of Congress, "fixing certain rules and regulations for
preventing collisions on the water," approved April 29th,
1864, and which made it her duty to carry a green light on
her starboard side, and a red one on her larboard, " and no
others" anywhere. She was sailing down the strait on a
course E. by S., with the wind south, and discovered the
lights of the Gray Eagle about a mile ahead, coming up the
strait, on a course of about W. N.W.* The witnesses differed a little as to these points, but this was according to
the weight of the testimony. The libel alleged, and the evidence of all the libellant's witnesses corresponded with its
statements, that when the Gray Eagle was first seen, or soon
afterwards, she showed a red light; but that this soon disappeared; after which she showed a green light until near
the moment of the collision, when she again showed her red
light. The libellants asserted that they had a right to suppose that the Gray Eagle would pass on the starboard of the
Perseverance; but that shortly before the disaster she kept
away, and, although the master of the latter called on her to
luff several times, in a loud voice, and at the same time
ordered his own man at the wheel to put the wheel hard
a-starboard, the Gray Eagle made no reply, but kept on her
course, and in less than two minutes struck the Perseverance stem on, abreast the starboard quarter, with such force
as to sink her in about two minutes, the master and crew
with difficulty saving their lives.
The defence set up by the answer for the Gray Eagle
was, chiefly,
1st. That the other vessel was sailing without the regulation lights and in violation of the act of Congress.
2d. That at a certain place in the bay mentioned "a white
light was seen about a mile distant, bearing about a point
on the Gray Eagle's port bow, which was supposed to be a
light on shore, or upon a vessel at anchor; that the Gray
Eagle was then kept away about a point and steadied on her
* A diagram on page 509 may, perhaps, assist the non-nautical reader in
understanding the statement.-REP.

Dec. 1869.]

THE GR AY EAGLE.
Argument for the appellants.

course to give berth to the light; that the light was not discovered to be a vessel's light in motion by the commanding qifcer
until the Perseverancegot within about three lengths of the Gray
Eagle, the said light being then nearly ahead and to windward; that the light was then supposed to be the binnacle
light of a vessel that had hauled up all she could to pass the
Gray Eagle to windward; that the mate, not seeing any
other light, ordered the helm hard a-port, so as to pass on
the port side and keep off and clear the stern of the vessel,
and stepped to windward of his vessel, and then heard for
the first time a cry from the other vessel to port the helm
hard down, but that it was too late, and that the vessels were
right together."
It seemed from the evidence that the light on the Perseverance was not reported to the mate in charge of the Gray
Eagle till near the moment of collision. The mate testified
that as soon as he saw it he ordered the "wheel up;" a wrong
order. The men who had been watching the light cried out,
"hard down ;" a right order, but not the one obeyed.
The District Court dismissed the libel, principally on the
ground that the Perseverance, having lost her lights, ought
to have lain by at anchor in the night time, and was expressly prohibited from sailing with a white light. The
Circuit Court reversed this decision, and decreed that both
vessels were in fault, and that the damages should be divided
between them. From this decree the owners of the Gray
Eagle appealed.
Messrs. Emmons and Vandyke, for the appellants:
Conceding that the Perseverance lost her regulation lights
by a vis major, there was no compulsory necessity for her to
have been under way in the night, in a narrow strait. She
ought to, and could have lain at anchor. If she must, or
chose to run, she should have hooded her light, and kept
out of the way of all other vessels.
She was guilty of premeditated wrongdoing, of violating
positive law, in carrying a light which she had no right to
carry, and in not carrying those which, if she insisted on

Tim, GRAY :EAGILE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

sailing at night, she was bound to have. This was the primal and proximate cause of the disaster. She criminally
kept her way and course, displaying a lying signal, and when
a collision has happened-as collision could hardly else than
happen-she, then-contemptuously putting aside, as of no
importance, what it was that her white light indicated and
declared to the other vessel,-demands damages from that
other vessel; a vessel itself in the observance of every requirement and which she has recklessly misled. This cannot be done.* A party himself in fault cannot recover from
any one.
No fault is shown on the part of the Gray Eagle. The
vessels were running on nearly parallel courses. The light
thus approaching in so nearly a direct line, there was nothing to indicate that it was in motion, and the Gray Eagle
supposing it to be a light on shore, or a vessel at anchor,
kept away about a point, and steadied on her course. It
was not discovered to be the light of a vessel in motion,
until they were close aboard one another. The fact that
this discovery was not made is indisputable. The Gray
Eagle cannot be held responsible for what may afterwards
prove to have been an error or mistake in orders given in a
moment of peril and danger, and when the collision had become inevitable or imminent, nor for mistakes originating
in or proceeding from the fiult of the other vessel.
Messrs. Willey and Carey, contra:
The fact that the Perseverance, owing to the misfortune
of having lost her regulation lights, had a light prohibited
to vessels while sailing, did not of itself absolve the Gray
Eagle from the observance of that degree of caution, care,
and nautical skill, which the exigencies of the case required.
If a white light usually represented a vessel at anchor, the
officers and seamen of the Gray Eagle had no right to conclude that it always did. It was their duty, from the moment
the light was seen, to have watched it carefully, in order to
ascertain from its bearings, whether the vessel was in motion
* Waring v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 465.

Dec. 1869.]

THE GRAY EAGLE.
Argument for the appellees.

or at anchor. And if, in the exercise of ordinary nautical
skill and care, this could have been done, and was omitted,
and this omission contributed to the accident, then the Gray
Eagle must share the burdens of the loss, although the Perseverance was in fault in running with a prohibited light.
Now the courses of the vessels at first were obviously
converging courses. The Perseverance held her course of
E. by S., closehauled, until the very instant of collision, as was
her duty.

I

lat.

The Gray Eagle on discovering our light, a mile distant,
made it about a point over her larboard bow. She then
ported about a point, to go to the right, or to the starboard
of our light. Her course was thus made N. W. by W., one
point higher up than her first course of W. N. W. Now if
the light had been stationary, after the Gray Eagle bad laid
her course so as to avoid it, it would have continued to bear
over the larboard bow of the Gray Eagle, increasing in its
bearings as the light was approached; and this they must

Tim GRAY EAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

have known would be the fact. But as our vessel advanced,
the Gray Eagle would have to be constantly changing her
course to hold our light on her larboard. In point of fact,
as the result showed and as must necessarily have been the
fact, our light must have got over on their starboardbow, by
the advance of our vessel, and constantly increased in its
bearings off the starboard bow of the Gray Eagle, as our
vessel advanced, which they must have known could not be
if the light was stationary. All this, with the least watching
of the light after the first observation had been made, would
have admonished the Gray Eagle that our light was moving,
and that as she (the Gray Eagle) had the wind free and on
the larboard side, it was her duty to avoid our vessel, which
bad the wind on her starboard side. And she would have
discovered this in ample time to have done so, if she had
given any attention to the movements of our light.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants in this court, as in the courts below,
strongly relied on the point, that the Perseverance was sailing with a white light at night, contrary to the express prohibition of the statutory regulations in that behalf, and, therefore, that the common law rule, which prohibits a recovery
by a party who was himself in fault, and who contributed to
the damage sustained, ought to be applied to her. But this
court has frequently held that the omission to exhibit the
proper light, though a fault which undoubtedly puts a vessel
pvrirnafacie in the wrong, does not exempt other vessels from
the consequences of negligence on their part. It was so decided in the case of Chainberlain v. Ward.* That case arose
under the act of March 2d, 1849, it is true; but that act
seems quite as stringent in its provisions as the act of 1864,
and the court, in reference to this question, says: "Failure
to comply with the regulation, in case a collision ensues, is
declared to be a fault, and the offending party is made responsible for all losses or damage resulting from the neglect;
but it is not declared by that section, or by any other rule
* 21 Howard, 648, 667.

Dec. 1869.]

THE GRAY EAGLE.

511

Opinion of the court.

of admiralty law in the jurisprudence of the United States,
that the neglect to show signal lights, on the part of one
vessel, discharges the other, as they approach, from the obligation to adopt all reasonable and practicable precautions to
prevent a collision. Absence of signal lights in cases falling
within the acts of Congress renders the vessel liable to the
extent already mentioned, but it does not confer any right
upon the other vessel to disregard or violate the laws of navigation, or to neglect any reasonable and practicable precaution to avoid a collision which the circumstances aflbrd the
means and opportunity to adopt." We are of opinion that
the same construction must be given to the act of 1864, and
that the exhibition of a prohibited light, as well as the omission to exhibit the proper lights, is insufficient to relieve
another vessel from the duty of observing the laws of navigation and of using all practicable precautions to avoid a
collision. It is a fundamental rule of admiralty law that
where both parties are in fault, both must contribute to
make good the damage, and this rule will not be deemed to
be abrogated without an express declaration of Congress to
that effect.
Supposing, then, the Perseverance to have been in fault
for not supplying herself with red and green lights, and for
exhibiting a white light, or for not casting anchor and lying
by till morning, or for any other reason (which, as her owner
or master has not appealed, it is to be presumed she was),*
the only remaining question for us to consider is, whether
the Gray Eagle was also in fault, so as to be chargeable with
contributing to the collision. This question, we think, has
been properly answered by the Circuit Court. It is admitted
by the answer of the appellants that the light of the Perseverance was seen when about a mile distant, bearing about
one point on the Gray Eagle's port bow, and was supposed
to be a light on shore, or upon a vessel at anchor; and that
the Gray Eagle was kept away about a point and steadied in
her course to give berth to the light; and that it was not disSee Chittenden v.Brewster, 2 Wallace, 196; McDonough v. Dannevy,
3 Dallas, 198.

THIE GRAY EAGL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

covered to be a vessel's light in motion, by the commanding
officer, until the Perseverance was within about three lengths
of her. This is a very remarkable admission. The courses
of the two vessels, after this light was seen, must have been
at an angle of about two points of the compass with each
other, and it is demonstrable from all the evidence taken
together that the Perseverance must have passed from the
Gray Eagle's port bow to her starboard bow before the collision took place, and yet it is said that the commanding officer
did not discover that the light was in motion until within
three lengths of her. The appellees' witnesses all testify
that the red light .of the Gray Eagle was first seen, and then
disappeared, after which her green light only was seen until
just before the collision. This shows that the Perseverance
had crossed the Gray Eagle's course, and that her motion
must have been seen had a proper lookout been kept on the
latter. It also shows that the Perseverance properly kept
on her course; and had the Gray Eagle kept on hers the
collision would not have occurred. The night was not dark;
the sails of the vessels could be seen nearly or quite a quarter
of a mile. It seems to us evident that there must have been
great negligence on the part of those having charge of the
Gray Eagle. From the evidence of the appellants' witnesses
it appears that there was much confusion on board of her
just as the collision was about to take place. One of the
men on the lookout forward says: "When I sung out to put
the wheel down, the mate sung out to put the wheel up."
The man at the wheel testified to the same thing, and says
that he obeyed the mate's orders, and that undoubtedly
caused the collision. Had the mate been on the lookout, as
an officer in command, with a light ahead, ought to have
been, the difficulty would not have occurred. We are, therefore, of opinion that the men in charge of the Gray Eagle
were delinquent in their duty under the circumstances of the
case, and that this delinquency contributed to cause the collision in question, and, as a consequence, that the loss should
be divided between the parties.
DECREE AFIRMED.

