IIORNTHALL

v. THS COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

general use and application, than that which may exist in
any particular case.
There is another view also, arising out of the facts upon
which this motion is founded, which should be stated. Although it is true that the appellee did not present his claims
before the board, as stated in the finding in the record on
appeal, it cannot, in view of the facts which appear in the
original record of the evidence before the Court of Claims,*
well be denied but that he made himself a party to their
proceedings, and took the benefit of the adjustment of his
accounts by them, which brings the case within the principle
decided in 7th Wallace.
MOTION DENIED.

IORNTHALL V. THuE COLLECTOR.
1. The jurisdiction of suits between citizens of the same State, in internal
revenue cases, conferred by the act of March 2d, 1833, " further to provide for the collection of duties on imports" (4 Stat. at Large, 632), and
the act of June 30th, 1864, "to provide internal revenue," &c. (13 Id.
241), was taken away by the act of July 13th, 1866, "to reduce internal
taxation, and to amend an act to provide internal revenue," &c. (14 Id.
172). Insurance Company v. Ritchie (5 Wallace, 541), affirmed.
2. Where such citizenship as is necessary to give jurisdiction to the Federal
courts is not averred, the suit cannot be maintained.
3. Where the Circuit Court dismisses a bill for want of jurisdiction apparent on its face, the general rule is not to allow costs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of Mississippi; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789 limits the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, so far as determined by citizenship, to "suits
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State."
An act of 1833,t "to provide further for the collection of
* Given, supra, p. 557, in the latter part of the reporter's statement, begin-

ning with the sentence, "Accompanying

the petition," and ending with the

words (foot of p. 558), "allowed by this board of commissionrs."-Rz.
t 4 Stat. at Large, 632.

Dec. 1869.]

HORNTHALL v. TIE COLLECT 01.

561

Statement of the case.

duties on, imports," extended the jurisdiction to cases arising
under "the revenue laws of the United States," where other
provision had not been made. And it authorized any person injured, in person or property, on account of any act
done "under any law of the United States for the protection
of the revenue or the collection of duties on imports," to maintain suit in the Circuit Court. It also allowed any person
sued in a State court, on account of any act done " under
the revenue laws of the United States," to remove the cause,
by a mode which the act itself set forth, into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
With the passage of the internal revenue laws made necessary by the late rebellion, it was doubted by some persons
whether this act of 1833 extended to cases under the new
enactments. And the internal revenue act of 1864,* by its
fiftieth section, extended in general words " the provisions"
of the act of 1833 to cases arising under the internal revenue
acts.
By an internal revenue act of the 13th July, 1866,t however (ยง 67), Congress made provision for removing cases from
State courts to the Circuit Court, authorizing such removal
in a way which it particularized, "i1n any case, civil or criminal, where suit or prosecution shall be commenced in any
court of any State against any officer of the United States,
. . . or against any person acting under or by authority of

any such officer, on account of any act done under color of
his office," &c.
And by the sixty-eighth section, immediately following,
it " repealed" the fiftieth section of the act of 1864, with,
however, this proviso:
"Provided, That any case which may have been removed from
the courts of any State Under said fiftieth section to the courts
of the United States, shall be remanded to the State court from
which it was so removed, with all the records relating to such
cases, unless the justice of the Circuit Court of the United States
in which such suit or prosecution is pending shall be of'opinion
that said case would be removable from the court of' the State
- 14 Id. 172.

13 Stat. at Large, 241.
VOL.

IX.

36

HoRNTHALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments.

to the Circuit Court under and by virtue of the provisions of
this act."
In this state of the statutes Hornthall & Kuhn, describing
themselves in the same as " partners in trade in the city of
Vicksburg, State of Mississippi," filed a bill against one Keary,
described in it as "collector of internal revenue of the United
States for the second collection district of the State of Mississippi," praying for an injunction to restrain Keary from
collecting an internal revenue tax assessed on certain cotton
of theirs, which tax they alleged was not due, but which the
respondent nevertheless threatened, as they alleged, to collect by distraint of their goods. In the subpceia both parties were described as citizens of the State of Mississippi.
On demurrer the court below, sustaining the demurrer, dismissed the bill for want of jurisdictionapparent on its face, and
awarding costs to the respondent. The other side took this
appeal.
Mr. floar, Attorney- General, and Mr.Field, Assistant Attorney- General, for the collector:
The case is both plain and simple. No question as to
whether the collector Was right or wrong in what he did or
threatened to do can trouble this court, nor whether any injunction would lie to restrain him, conceding that he was
wrong. We are stopped before getting so far, for the bill
does not show affirmatively that the complainants and respondent are citizens of different States; but, on the contrary, shows by implication that they are not. The appeal
must, of course, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.*
Mr. Sharkey, contra:
The assumption of the counsel of the government is not
one exactly accurate. The collector is not named in the bill
as a citizen of Mississipi, but is sued in his official capacity,
without naming his residence. He is sued as an officer of
the United States.
But has not the Federal judiciary jurisdiction in all reveInsurance Company V. Ritchie, 5 Wallace, p. 541.

Dec. 1869.]

HORNTIALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

563

Restatement of the ,case in the opinion.

nue cases? It is supposed that the counsel below acted on
this presumption. Without extended argument on this subject, which is far more familiar to the court than it is to the
counsel, the case is respectfully submitted.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the particulars of the case,
and delivered the opinion of the court.
Owners or holders of cotton, produced within the United
States, upon which no tax has been levied, paid, or collected,
are required by the act of the thirteenth of July, 1866, as
amended, to pay a tax upon the same of two and one-half
cents per pound, and the provision is that such tax shall be
and remain a lien thereon in the possession of any person
whomsoever from the time the act took effect, or the cotton
was produced as aforesaid, " until the same shall have been
paid."* Due notice in writing was given by the appellee,
as collector of internal revenue for that district, on the ninth
of May, 1866, to the appellants, that a tax on three hundred
and forty-one bales of cotton, amounting to three thousand
one hundred and forty-seven dollars and twenty-three cents,
had been assessed against them under that act as amended,
by the assessor of that collection district, and that a list of
the same in due form had been transmitted to him for collection. Payment of the tax having been delayed beyond
the time allowed by law, they were also notified that they
had become liable to pay five per cent. additional upon the
amount of the same, together with interest from the first day
of January preceding the date of the notice, and that, if the
tax was not paid within ten days from the service of the notice, the same would be collected by distraint and sale of
property. Before the ten days expired the appellants filed
their bill of complaint in the Circuit Court for that district,
praying that the appellee, as such collector, might be enjoined from enforcing the payment of the tax for several
reasons, of which the following are the most material:
1. They admit that, during the winter preceding the filing
of the bill of complaint, they shipped from that port three
* 14 Stat. at Large, 98; ib. 471.

564

HORNTIIALL v.

THE

COLLECTOR

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

hundred and forty-one bales of cotton, but they allege that
the internal revenue tax on the same was duly paid to the
collector, or to his legally authorized deputy; that the permits for the shipment were duly issue(d by that officer, though
they cannot be exhibited, as they still remain in his possession ; and they also allege that the charge in the notice that
the tax on the cotton is unpaid is a fraudulent and corrupt
fabrication.
2. That the proceedings threatened by the collector are
not authorized by the acts of Congress providing for the collection of such taxes; that such proceedings are applicable
only to the collaction of taxes on incomes, licenses, and the
like, and not to the collection of the cotton tax, as that is
made a specific lien on the cotton, which cannot be removed
from the district where it was produced until the tax is paid
or a bond given to secure such payment.
Pursuant to the prayer of the bill of complaint an injunction was issued forbidding the collection of the tax until the
further order of the court, but on motion of the district attorney the injunction was subsequently dissolved. Required
to plead, answer, or demur, the district attorney demurred
specially to the bill of complaint, showing for cause: (1.)
That it was not the proper remedy for the alleged grievance;
that the remedy, if any, was by appeal to the commissioner.
(2.) That the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction in equity to
enjoin the collection of internal revenue taxes. Both parties
were heard, and the court sustained the demurrer, dismissed
the bill of complaint, arnd awarded costs to the respondent,
and the complainants appealed to this court.
Jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the case is denied in
argument by the appellee upon two grounds: (1.) Because
the parties to the suit are citizens of the same State. (2.)
Because the Circuit Court has no power to afford a remedy
by injunction fbr such a grievance; but in the view taken
of the case it will not be necessary to examine the second
proposition with much particularity, as the first is clearly
correct and must prevail.
Conrtroversies between citizens of different States are

Dec. 1869.]

HORNTHALL V. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

plainly within the judicial power of the United States, as
conferred by the Constitution ; and Congress provided in the
eleventh section of the Judiciary Act that the Circuit Courts
should have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts
of the several States, of suits between a citizen of the State
where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State.*
Citizenship of the parties to a suit, where it is the foundation of jurisdiction in the Federal courts, must be distinctly
averred, so as to show not only that they are citizens of different States but also that one of them is a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought.t Express allegation of the
fatcts material to give jurisdiction is necessary, because such
courts are courts of special and not of general jurisdiction,
and consequently there is no presumption in favor of their
jurisdiction where the facts requisite to show it do not appear in the record.t Nothing of the kind is shown in this
case, either in the pleadings or in any part of the proceedings in the suit. On the contrary, the complainants are described in the bill of complaint as partners in trade in the
city of Vicksburg, State of Mississippi, and the respondent
is therein described as the collector of internal revenue of
the United States for the second collection district of Mississippi, leaving it to be clearly inferred that both parties are
citizens r)f the same State. But the matter is not left to inference, as the parties are in express terms described as citizens of Mississippi in the subpoena which was issued at the
same time on motion of the complainants.
Unable successfully to deny that proposition, the next suggestion of the appellants is that all revenue cases are within
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, but the suggestion
cannot be sustained, as will be seen by reference to the several acts of Congress upon that subject.ยง
* 1 Stat. at Large, 78.
t Conkliug, Treatise, 4th ed., 344; Bingham v. Cabot, 8 Dallas, 882;
Gassies v. Ballon, 6 Peters, 761.
J Turner v. Bank of America, 4 Dallas, 8; Sullivan v. Steamboat Company, 6 Wheaton, 450.
Insurance Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wallace, 541; Philadelphia v. Collector, lb. 728.

HORNTHALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Provision was made by the second section of the act of the
second of March, 1833, that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts should extend to all cases in law or equity arising
under the several laws of the United States for which other
provisions were not already made by law.* Undoubtedly
the act was passed for the protection of the officers charged
with the collection of import duties, but the same provision
was, by the fiftieth section of the act of the thirtieth of June,
1864, extended to cases arising under the laws for the collection of internal duties.t
Strong doubts are entertained whether the Circuit Courts,
even, during the period when that provision was in force,
were authorized to enjoin the collection of internal revenue
taxes, but it is not necessary to decide the point, as Congress
subsequently repealed the fiftieth section of the last-named
act, and expressly enacted that the original act should not
be so construed as to apply to cases arising under the other
sections of the act, or to any act in addition thereto, or in
amendment thereof, nor to any case in which the validity or
interpretation of said act or acts shall be in issue.1
Suits between citizens of different States may still be
brought in the Circuit Courts, but where both parties reside
in the same State the Circuit Courts have no original cognizance of any case arising under the internal revenue laws.
Such cases, when commenced against an officei- acting under
those laws, in a State court, may be removed, on petition of
the defendant, into the Circuit Court for the district, and the
jurisdiction of the court is clear beyond dispute, irrespective
of the citizenship of the parties; but the act of the second
of March, 1867, provides that no suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of a tax shall be maintained in any court.ยง
Viewed in any light the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
of this controversy, and consequently this court has no power
to grant the relief prayed for in the bill of complaint.
Costs were improperly allowed in the court below, as the
*

: 14 Id 172, j 67.
f 13 1b. 241, 50.
4 Stat. at Large, 632.
14 Stat. at Large, 475; Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wallace, 730.

Dec. 1869.]

THE ASSESSOR V.

OSBORNES.

Statement of the case.

case was dismissed for the want of jurisdiction on the face
of the pleadings, and in such cases the general rule is that
costs will not be allowed in this court.* Sometimes an exception to that rule is admitted, as where the defendant in
the court below is the defendant in this court, but inasmuch
as the costs were improperly awarded in his favor by the
Circuit Court, the better opinion is that he is not entitled to
the benefit of that exception, as the decree in his favor must
be reversed to correct that error.T
Decree REVERSED, and cause remanded, with directions to
dismiss the bill of complaint, but
WITHOUT

COSTS.

NOTE.

Soon after the preceding case was adjudged, there came
up and was adjudged another involving the same point of
jurisdiction. It was the case of
THE ASSESSORS V. OSBORNES.
In which the first two points adjudged in the preceding case, and the points
adjudged in Insurance Company v. Ritchie (5 Wallace, 641), are affirmed;
including the point taCjudged in this last case, to wit, that where jurisdiction depends wholly on a statute, suits brought during the existence
of the statute fall with its repeal.

IN this case, which came on error from the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of New York, the same condition of
enactment and repeal of statutes presented itself as in the last
case. It is set forth, supra, pp. 560-562. It makes the fundamental part of this case as of that. And the reader who desires
to read the report of this case as well as the report of that, will
please to recall it thence, or refer to it there.
McIver v. Wattles, 9 Wheaton, 650; Strader v. Graham, 18 Howard,
602; Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheaton, 363; Montalet v. Murray, 4 Cranch,
47; Bradstreet v. Potter, 16 Peters, 318.

Winclester v. Jackson, 3 Cranch, 514.

