Dec. 1869.]

THE KEOKUK.
Statement of the case.

TE KEOKUK.
1. The law creates no maritime lien on a vessel as security for the performance of a contract to transport a cargo, unless some contract of affreightment has been made.
2. Such a contract cannot be implied against a transportation company from
the fact that a man has loaded a barge belonging to the company, by
means of his own men, without any knowledge by the company of what
he has done, and then delivered bills of lading to the agent of a steamer
of the line, the agent at the moment being very much engaged with
other matters, just before the steamer, which it was expected by the
shipper would tow the barge, sets off; no sufficient statement being
made by the shipper, when so delivering the bills, what bills they are,
and the agent himself having no knowledge of what has been done in
the particular case, nor of the contents of the bills.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin; the case being this:
The La Crosse and Minnesota Steam Packet Company
were, during the year 1865, owners of the steamer Keokuk
and of several barges, including one named the Farley, which
were running on the Mississippi River between La Crosse
and Winona, and engaged in carrying freight. On the 23d
of October, in that year, the Keokuk towed the barge Farley to Winona, and left her moored at the dock at that
place, not however in any one's charge. On the 27th, at
about five o'clock in the afternoon, one Robson, a shipper
at Winona, getting on the barge, took her to the elevator
near by, and with his own men, loaded her with wheat to
be shipped to La Crosse. He did not ask permission of
the master of the Keokuk to load the barge, nor inform
either him or any other person of his intention to load her.
He had, however, previously, at times, taken possession of
barges and loaded them, and they were afterwards towed
by the packet company to La Crosse; he had done this by
permission of the officers of the packet company, but had
never had permission to do it from the captain then in cominand of the Keokuk.
The Keokuk did not arrive at Winona from La Crosse

THE KEOKUK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

that night until after dark. The night was a very stormy
night, and it was snowing hard. The vessel landed at what
was known as the lower landing, about fifty rods from the
elevator, where the barge then was, and after unloading put
off again at about twelve o'clock at night for La Crosse.
While the boat was laying where she was, the bookkeeper
of Robson came to her second clerk, who was "very busy
checking off freight," in the dark in the storm, a lantern in
one hand and his book in the other, and handed to him two
papers, saying, "Here are the bills of that barge." The
clerk took them with some assenting remark, and put them
in his pocket without opening them; "so that the rain should
not spoil them." There was no explanation what bills the
bills were, and nothing further took place between the parties. No book was presented to the clerk to sign and no
receipts asked for. This clerk subsequently laid the bills
on the first clerk's desk in the boat, the place where he
usually put bills. Hie was not positive, but he thought that
when he put them there he said to the first clerk, "Here are
those bills." He did not himself know their contents. No
other notice than that already mentioned was given to the
officers of the boat that the barge had been loaded, and none
of the officers were aware of the loading of the barge until
they were one-third of the way back to La Crosse. The
papers were then discovered to be memorandum bills of
lading of the barge. The barge was not watched by Robson, and in the morning it was found sunk at the dock where
he had left it. Thereupon Robson filed a libel in the District
Court of Wisconsin against the steamer, the barge, and the
packet company, charging that the barge was unseaworthy,
and that the cargo was lost by carelessness of the master and
officers of the steamers. There was no proof to sustain the
charge of unseaworthiness.
The District Court decreed for the libellant; the Circuit
Court affirmed the decree. The packet company appealed.
Mr. J. W. Cary, for the appellant:
The law creates no lien on a vessel as a security for the

'Dec. 1869.]

THE

K EOKUK.

Opinion of the court.

performance of a contract to transport a cargo, until a cargo
is shipped under it. In Vandewater v. Mills,* -this court says:
"Maritime liens are strici juris, and will not be extended by
construction. The obligation between the ship and cargo is
mutual and reciprocal, and does not take place till the cargo
is delivered on board." Now here there was no sufficient
delivery.
Mr. Emmons, contra:
The rule, as laid down by this court, in the case cited by
Mr. Cary, is explained by it in Bulkley v. The Naurnkeag Steam
Cotton Company.t There the master receipted for a hundred
bales of cotton, to be carried on his vessel, and placed it on
a lighter, of which he had control, to be transferred from the
warehouse in the city of Mobile, to his vessel, lying outside
the bar. The cotton was lost by fire on the lighter before
reaching the vessel. It was held that a delivery of the cotton
to the lighterman was a delivery to the master, and bound
the vessel.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is a principle of maritime law that the owner of the
cargo has a lien on the vessel for any injury he may sustain by
the fault of the vessel or the master; but the law creates no
lien on a vessel as a security for the performance of a contract
to transport a cargo until some lawful contract of affreightment is made, and the cargo to which it relates has been delivered to the custody of the master or some one authorized
to receive it.1 The inquiry then arises whether there was
any contract to carry the wheat in question, and, if so, was
the barge containing it delivered to the custody of the
steamer? It is very clear, had the steamer taken the barge
in tow, the lien would have attached, although the bills of
lading were not executed, because the act of towing the
barge would be evidence that the grain was received, and
19 Howard, 82.

t 24 Id. 386.

: Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 Howard, 188.

THE KEOKuK.

[Snp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that there was a contract to carry it safely. And the steamer
would be equally liable if the barge had been left at the
landing by the fhult of the officers of the boat. But the
evidence not only fails to prove this, but establishes the contrary conclusion. The only witness on the part of the libellant, whose testimony has any bearing on the subject, is his'
bookkeeper. He says, that on the night in question he gave
to the second clerk of the steamer, who was on the levee
checking freight, two bills of lading, with the statement (of
this he is not positive), " These are the bills of that barge,"
to which the clerk made some assenting remrtk. But the
clerk denies that he knew the contents of the papers when
handed to him, or that anything was said at the time from
which he could infer their contents. And his subsequent
conduct shows that the observation of the bookkeeper, if
any was made, failed to arrest his attention; for he put the
papers in his pocket and remained on the levee until he
had completed his work, and afterwards, without examining
them, placed them in the condition in which they were received by him on the desk of the first clerk.
If he is not mistaken in his recollection, that the first clerk
was present on the occasion, and that he told him "here are
the bills" (which is very doubtful from the evidence), yet
it is manifest the first clerk attached no importance to the
bills, for he did not notice them until after daylight, when
the Keokuk was far on her way to La Crosse. Each clerk,
doubtless, acted on the supposition that the other knew to
what particular freight the bills related, but it seems both
were equally uninformed concerning them. It is not pretended that in any other way than this, was any information
conveyed to any one connected with the boat of the intended
shipment of grain by the libellant. Neither the master, nor
any person on the steamer, or in the employment of the company, had notice that he had taken the barge and loaded it
with grain, or that he contemplated doing so. If it be conceded the course of business between the two parties justified him in taking possession of the barge and loading it,
without the direct permission of the master, yet it fhlls far

Dec. 1869.]

TiiF KEOKUK.
Opinion of the court.

siort of showing that the barge, when loaded, was considered
in the custody of the steamer without notice to any of her
officers. Indeed, it would be unreasonable to suppose the
parties dealt with each other on any such understanding, for
it would place the advantage altogether on the side of the
shipper, who would be relieved of' care and risk as soon as
the barge was filled with grain, and the master could exercise no discretion about receiving it.
As there was, then, no 'agreement in this case which
changed the legal rights of the parties, it is clear the steamer
is not subject to a maritime lien. The wheat and barge were,
at the time of the accident, in the control of the libellant,
and their custody was not changed by handing unsigned bills
of lading to the second clerk of the steamer, who did not
know their contents, nor had any reason to suppose they related to the barge Farley. It was the misfortune of the
libellant that he transacted his business so loosely, and if it
be the corporation is somewhat to blame for this, the steamer
has not on that account committed any fault for which she
is chargeable in admiralty. As no one in her behalf contracted with the libellant to transport the barge to La Crosse,
and as he did nothing to transfer the possession to the steamer,
the libel cannot be sustained.
The -case of Bulkley v. Naumkeay Coton Company is cited
in opposition to the views we have presented, but it is not
applicable. There the goods were delivered to a lighter in
the control of the ship; here the shipper took control of
the barge, and did not deliver either barge or cargo to the
steamer.
The decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and this
cause is remanded to that court with directions to
DIsMISS THE LIBEL.

