Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Syllabus.

the plaintiff, if established, could in no wise affect the legal
liability of the defendants; nor could the fact be received in
mitigation of damages. It is well settled, that proof of the
bad character of the plaintiff is inadmissible for any purpose
in actions for malicious prosecution.* All the evidence upon
this subject disclosed in the bill of exceptions was incompetent, and should have been excluded from going to the
jury. This instruction also was erroneous.
Judgment REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
below, with an order to issue a venire de novo.

STAR OF HOPE.
1. To constitute a voluntary stranding of a vessel it is not necessary that
there should have been a previous intention to destroy or injure the
vessel, nor is such intention supposed to exist. It is sufficient that the
vessel was selected to suffer the common peril in the place of the whole
of the associated interests, in order that the remainder might he saved.
2. The stranding is voluntary whenever the will of man does in some degree
contribute thereto, though the existence of the particular reef or bank
on which the vessel grounds was not before known to the master, and
though he did not intend to strand the vessel thereon; provided it sufficiently appear that in making the exposure of the vessel he was aware
that stranding was the chief risk incurred by him, and that it was not
wholly unexpected by him.
8. These principles applied to the facts of this case, and the stranding held
to be voluntary, so as to render the damage to the ship thereby caused,
and all costs and expenses consequent thereon, a subject of general
average contribution.
4. As a general rule the contributory value of the ship, when she has received no extraordinary injuries during the voyage, and has not been
repaired on that account, is her value at the time of her arrival at the
termination of the voyage. But where, as in this case, the ship has sustained injuries during the voyage and undergone repairs, her contributory value is her worth before such repairs were made. In the absence
of other proof on this point, her value in the policy of insurance at the
port of departure is competent evidence. From this, however, should
be made a just and reasonable deduction for deterioration.
* 1 Greenleaf's Evidence,

55.

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
5. The expenses of an ex parle adjustment made by the charterers of a ship
at the port of delivery are not chargeable in admiralty on the ship or
freight, unless the results were adopted and used in the court below by
the commissioner who stated the adjustment made under order of the
court.
6. Repairs cannot be made by the master unless he has means or credit; and
if be has neither, and his situation is such that he cannot communicate
with the owners, he may sell a part of the cargo for that purpose if it is
necessary for him to do so in order to raise the means to make the repairs. Sacrifices made to raise such means are the subject of general
average, and the rule is the same whether the sacrifice was made by a
sale of a part of the cargo or by the payment of marine interest.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for California; the case
arising upon an agreed statement of facts, in substance thus:
In November, 1855, the firm of Annan, Talmage & Embury, chartered at New York the ship Star of Hope, the
master, officers, and crew being all employed by the owners.
They received on board of her, at the port just named, a
large quantity of merchandise on freight deliverable at San
Francisco, and also merchandise their own property. They
received also, on freight, payable to them for and on account
of the owners, two hundred and forty-four tons of coal.
Among the merchandise shipped by the charterers and the
other shippers (not the owners), were five hundred casks and
packages of brandy and other spirituous liquors, stowed next
the coal, and one barrel and forty-eight kegs of gunpowder,
prepared as " patent safety fusees."
With this cargo on board, the ship sailed from New York
in February, 1856, for San Francisco, being in all respects
during the voyage kept tight, staunch, well-fitted, tackled,
and provided with every requisite, and with necessary men
and provisions-all which the charter-party bound the owners
that she should be-except as hereinafter set forth.
During the voyage, about the middle of April, 1856, the
ship being then on the east side of the southern end of South
America, and in about latitude 460 S., longitude 53' W., the
weather squally and the sea rough, great quantities of smoke
and vapor were observed issuing from the fore and after
hatches. After as full an examination as was possible be-

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Statement of the case.

tween decks and otherwise, all on board had every reason to
believe the ship on fire below, originating as was supposed
in the coal by spontaneous combustion. The hatches were
immediately fastened down and everything made tight, in
order to check as much as possible the progress of the fire,
at least until a port of succor could be reached. It was
known that among the cargo were large quantities of spirituous liquors, and of the prepared gunpowder already described, all which were believed by every one on board to be
highly inflammable and explosive. Great alarm was felt in
consequence, and the destruction of the ship, officers, and
crew was apprehended by all.
The crew refused to continue the voyage, and the captain
determined properly to make for the Bay of San Antonio, on
the southeast coast of Patagonia, as the nearest anchorage.
In about four days, during which the signs of fire continued
to increase, she arrived off that bay, and set the usual signal
for a pilot.
In making ready the anchors and getting up the chains
from below, these were found quite hot, and there were other
signs of fire which greatly heightened the general alarm.
Meantime the weather was such, the wind blowing the
ship right on shore, with a heavy sea running, that she could
not haul off. The shore being very rocky and precipitous,
she could not have gone on there without certain and almost
instant loss of vessel, cargo, and all on board. The captain
being very unwilling to run into a bay unknown to him without
a pilot, waited about three hours for one, but none came. The
place, it was evident, was a wild and desolate bay, without sign
of human life. All this time the indications of fire below, as
well as the weather, continued to grow worse. At length
he determined, as the best thing to be done for the general
safety, and especially for the preservation of the cargo and
lives of those on board, to make the attempt to run in without a pilot, preferring all risks to be thereby, incurred rather
than to remain outside in the momentary apprehension of
destruction to all. Under all the circumstances, the captain
was fully justified in this.

STAR or,

HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

In attempting to enter the bay the lead was kept going,
showing successively 8, 7, 6, 5, 41, and 4 fathoms, and immediately afterwards the ship grounded, and after striking heavily
remained fast. The reef or bank on which she grounded
was not visible at the time, and the captain was not aware of
its existence, though her stranding was one of the chief risks he
had assumed in undertaking to run in. The result of the attempt was, that before the ship could be got to sea again
she sprunk aleak, and sustained other very serious injuries
in her bottom.
These were such as to fully justify the captain in turning
back with her to Montevideo (as the nearest port) for examination and repairs, there being no inhabitants at San Antonio, and no sign of human life, and the water taken in by
the ship having apparently extinguished the fire below.
He arrived at Montevideo in the end of April, 1856, and
on removing the cargo found marks of fire on various portions. The necessary expenses incurredby the ship at this port to
enable her to resume her voyage, including repairs, unloading,
warehousing, and reloading of cargo, &e., were $100,000.
To defray these, the captain, being without credit or means,
either of his own or his owners (and there being at Montevideo very little market for such goods and merchandise as
the ship had aboard), necessarily sold a considerable portion
of the cargo. This sale, both as to the mode and the cargo
selected, was managed with all due care for the interest of
all concerned. Of the cargo thus sold portions belonged to
different parties shipping.
About the 11th September, 1856, the ship left Montevideo,
no unnecessary delay having been made there, and arrived
at San Francisco on December 7th, 1856.
The goods and merchandise of the several shippers re
mainino on board were in due time and in good order delivered to them.
Upon her arrival at San Francisco the said Annan and
Embury, and one George Hazzard, who had become the assignees of Annan, Tal mage & Embury, both as to the charterparty and as to their portion of the cargo, and in all respects

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.

Statement of the case.

the successors in interest of Annan,'Talmage & Embury,
claimed and obtained the control of the ship and her cargo
until the delivery of the latter was completed, and they alone
collected and received of the several consignees the freight
therefor. Messrs. Annan, Embury & iazzard delivered to
the several owners the goods and merchandise respectively,
first obtaining from them the amount of their several contributions to the general average, and they also received so
much of the cargo as was deliverable to themselves.
Of $36,000, the price and hire fixed in the charter-party,
$9822.20 was paid either by the charterers or their assignees.
The expenses properly and necessarily incurred by the
ship, from the day when her course was first changed for
San Antonio, until the day she resumed her voyage; the
freight due at San Francisco on the several portions of the
cargo not delivered there to the several owners; the value
at San Francisco of the ship and of the entire cargo, as well
as of the portion delivered there, were matters w.hich were
all agreed upon by the parties; though the value of the ship
at Montevideo was not known.
In this state of facts, Annau et al., the charterers, and fourteen other parties, shippers, and a sixteenth party, Embury
et al., filed, in March and April, 1857, in the District Court,
libels against the ship, then in the port of San Francisco.
Annan & Co. for $44,700, and Embury & Co. for $10,115.
The libels, except the last, were in the same form, and
were fbr the non-delivery at San Francisco, by the ship, of
certain quantities of merchandise shipped upon her at New
York, to be delivered, at the former port, to the several
libellants respectively, but which were sold in the course
of the voyage by the master at Montevideo, to pay fbr repairs
at that port, made necessary by the stranding of the ship at
the Bay of San Antonio.
The answers to all the libels, except to that of Embury &
Co., set up substantially that the stranding at the Bay of
Sat) Antonio took place under circumstances which made
the damage, and all expenses consequent thereon, a subject

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of general average contribution by the ship, freight, and
cargo.
The libel of Embury et al. was for the alleged amount
paid by them as the consignees of the ship at San Francisco,
as the expenses of an average adjustment, made or attempted
to be made by them at that port after her arrival, and of an
attempted collection of the same.
To this last libel the claimant of the vessel demurred, on the
ground that the matters alleged did not constitute a cause of
contract within the admiralty j urisdiction, He then proceeded
to deny the principal allegations of the libel, and set up that
the adjustment in question was made by the libellants, on
their own account, as the assignees of the charterers of the
ship (Annan & Co.), and not on account of the ship or her
owners, and was defective, erroneous, and worthless; that
at all events the cost of the adjustment should come into the
general average, and the ship be liable only for her share in
the contribution. That the libellants having, as charterers
and consignees of the ship, delivered the cargo to the several
consignees thereof without collecting the average thereon,
should bear the loss. That the average actually collected
by them, and the sum of $30,000 balance remaining unpaid
on the charter of the ship, should be set-off.
The court referred the case to a commissioner to report
an adjustment, upon the assumption that the loss and expenses caused by the stranding of the ship were general
average. He did so report. But in his report1. He charged the ship or freight with the expenses of the
adjustment made at San Francisco, by Annan, Embury &
Hazzard.
2. He assumed as the basis of his estimate of the contributory value of the ship her valuation in the policy of insurance
at Boston, deducting what the repairs at Montevideo cost.
3. He brought into particular average, or subject to a deduction of " one-third new for old," certain expenses at
Montevideo, which, though incidental to the repairs of the
ship, were either not themselves a permanent benefit to her,
or were not incurred for that purpose. Such as expenses of

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Statement of the case.

1. Surveys, orders, estimates, reports, &c.
2. Preparations for making the repairs; labor in heaving
her down; wear and tear of materials used therein; anchors,
cordage, blocks, &c.; boat hire, &c.
3. Building staging and use of materials therein, &c.
4. Expenses of raising funds (i. e., loss on sale of cargo), &c.
Upon the coming in of the report, exceptions were filed
by both parties. By the libellants, on the ground mainly
that the loss and expenses were not general average; by the
claimant, upon grounds affecting the detailsjust mentioned,
of the report.
Upon these exceptions and the case stated, the matter was
argued before the District Court, which decided that the
damage caused by the stranding of the ship, and the loss and
expenses consequent thereon (including the cost of the repairs at Montevideo), was a subject of particular average,
and not of general average, as contended on behalf of the
ship; and held her liable, as contended for by the libellants.
Its view apparently was, that to make the case one for general average, the stranding should have been the result of an
intention to effect that particular object. That court also
held the ship liable under the last of the libeIs, namely, that
of Enbury et al., for the expenses of the adjustment made
by the consignees; and decreed accordingly. The Circuit
Court affirmed the decree of the District Court.
Subsequently, and before the appeal to this court, it was
discovered that a serious error had been committed in the
amount inserted in the decree upon the first libel, $26,469.
It had been stipulated between the parties, that from any
sum found due to the libellants, Annan et al., in their libel,
should be deducted $26,177.80, the balance due by them as
the charterers of the ship, and the decree entered for the
difference. But a small portion of this balance was in fact
deducted, so that the decree, instead of being for $26,469,
should have been but for $4291.13.
On behalf of the ship a motion was made to correct this
error of figures. The court, however, refuIsed to correct the
VOL. IX.

14

STAR

OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the shipowners.

decree, on the ground of the great lapse of time since the
entry of the decreejin the District Court, and because the
alleged error, if it existed, might be corrected on appeal in
this court.
It appeared also that another large sum, about $14,000,
which should have been deducted from the same judgment
for averages received by the same libellants, was never deducted.
]loth these errors of figures were attributable to" the adjuster who made up the adjustment for Embury et al., and
to whom the casting up of the amounts awarded in the decree had been subsequently committed by the ship's agent
at San Francisco.
The case was now brought to this court on these grounds:
1. That the damage to the ship, caused by her stranding
at the Bay of San Antonio, and the loss and expense consequent thereon, were a subject of general average, and not
of particular average, as decided by the court below.
2. That even if this were not so, and they were a subject
of particular average, then the exceptions to the commissioner's report should have been sustained.
3. That the error of figures in entering the decree in favor
of Annan et al. should be corrected, by reducing the same
to $4291.13.
Mr. E. Casserly, for the appellant:
The conditions which must concur to stamp on a maritime
loss the character of a general average may be stated as follows:
1. The danger must be imminent, and common to the
ship, cargo, and the lives of those on board.
2. To avert this danger from the whole, the ship or cargo,
either entirely or in part, must be purposely exposed to risk
in lieu of the whole.
3. By the loss incurred, the safety of the other interests
involved must, at least for the time, be accomplished.
The only contioversy here is, whether or no the second
essential condition is found in the case. In other words,

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Argument for the shipowners.

whether, to avert the danger impending over the whole, the
ship was purposely put at risk in lieu of the whole, so as to
make the damage afterwards incurred by her (and, of course,
the consequent expenses) matter of general average contribution.
The facts are agreed on. The question is as to the legal
effect of them.
The two following propositions contain, we suppose, ajust
statement of the law which governs this case:
1. Whenever, to avoid an imminent danger, common to
the ship, cargo, and the lives of those on board, the ship is
voluntarily or purposely exposed to a distinct and extraordinary peril, out of the usual course of navigation, and of
the ship's duties as a carrier for the voyage, any loss or
damage to the ship consequent thereon is a subject of general average contribution.
2. It is immaterial though this loss or damage to the ship
is other or greater than was expected, or whether it was
wrought directly and immediately by the act of exposure, or
incidentally by reason of the ship being placed in a situation
which made her liable to the injury.
The two propositions may be discussed together.
The whole law of general average is a series of analogous
equities drawn out from an original principle. There being
no decided case precisely the same with this in its facts, it
will be necessary to deduce the law of this ease by the same
process, aided by the decisions in analogous cases.
The most obvious general analogy to sustain both propositions is that of goods put into a lighter to relieve the ship
and cargo, and afterwards lost or damaged. This is a case
of general average as ancient as the Digest, and so by all the
authorities since, without exception.
So in the highly analogous case of goods lightered out of a
ship compelled to take refuge in a port to which she was not
destined, and which she cannot enter without being relieved
ot a part of her cargo.
This latter case presents pointedly the feature which converts a loss of lightered goods into a general average, namely,

STAR OF HOPE.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the shipowners.

that the lightering is out of the usual course of navigation
for the voyage. Where it is not so, as when the lightering
is in the common course of navigation or business, the loss
is particular average. The exception is fully recognized,*
and confirms the rule, and both clearly establish our two
propositions.
In all such cases the decisive fact is, that there is a voluntary exposure of the goods to a distinct and extraordinary
peril, out of the common course of navigation. The intention in putting the goods into the lighters is not to destroy
them. Very generally the expectation is that they will be
saved. The loss, howsoever it occurs, is incidental to the
exposure, and is general average.
Following out the same principle of an extraordinary exposure, Magenst mentions the case of goods put out of a leaky
ship on board of another, which was afterwards captured,
where the goods were contributed for in general average.
Besides lightered goods, EmerigonT mentions the case
of boats launched from a ship for the common safety and
afterwards lost, coming into general average. As when a
ship chased by hostile cruisers put out a boat with a lantern
into the sea at night, by which the enemy was misled, and
the ship escaped.
And see the cases of extraordinary exposure or loss, out
of the common course, in 2 Phillips on Insurance: slipping
the cable to run out to sea to escape going ashore; ยง sails let
go to right the ship when on her beam-ends; 11applying a
portion of the ship's tackle or equipment to an extraordinary
use; cutting a cable to keep with convoy or escape from an
enemy; ** expense of puttifig into a port out of the course
of the voyage, to refit, &c., &c.tt
Finally, in Dupont v. Vance,tt this court has stated the distinctive features of a general average sacrifice in these words:
1288, and note 3; Stevens
Emerigon, 474; 2 Phillips on Insurance,
and Benecke, 184; Lewis v. Williams, 1 Hall, 437, 438.
- 1 Magens, 160, case ix, quoted by Stevens and Beneke, 134, note a.
1299.
[I 1298.
1295.
: Pp. 480, 481.
1) Howard, 162.
11
ft 1320.
*
1308, 1309.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF H=OPE.
Argument for the shipowners.

"If it be made to relieve the adventure from a peril which
has fallen on all the subjects engaged in it, the risk of which
peril was not assumed by the carrier, the charge is to be borne
proportionably by all the interests," &c.
The doctrine which prevailed below seems to have been
that, to entitle a loss to come into general average, it must
be not only the direct, but the immediate result of the act
and will of man; so that, if the loss be by stranding, stranding must have been the very form of injury premeditated in
making the exposure or sacrifice. But this doctrine is at
war with the first principles of general average; with many
of the oldest and most widely acknowledged cases of general
average; and with several decisions of recognized authority
in the Federal courts. The vital principle of general average is the motive of the act of sacrifice or exposure. That
motive must be the common safety of the other interests
concerned. It is that which gives its character to the act;
not the fact that any particular damage was intended, or
form of damage or injury "premeditated."
The doctrine is moreover in conflict with the principle
and reason of the oldest and clearest cases of general average. Such are: goods put into lighters to relieve the ship;
goods lightered to enable the ship to enter a port not her
port of destination; goods put out of a leaky ship into another which is afterwards captured, &c. In all these cases
the forms of injury are manifold, and beyond all human
power beforehand to particularize. Thus, lightered goods
may be damaged by water from the sea or the sky, by cold
or heat, or by lightning; may be lost by stranding or foundering, or jettison, or by capture. It is, therefore, quite impossible to say how far the damage done the goods is "the direct
and immediate result" of the exposure, or is merely a consequence or incident of their being placed in a position which
made them peculiarly liable to injury. Or, that the particular form of damage done could have been (in the language
of the District Court) "the result of an intention to effect
that particular object." That would be to require of every

STAR OF

HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the shipowners.

master of a ship; besides being a mariner, to be also a
prophet.
The doctrine is equally opposed to all the most authoritative cases in the United States.
In Caze v. Reilly,* a case the reasoning of which has twice
received "the unqualified assent" of the Supreme Court of
the United States,t the master of a schooner, hard pressed
by British cruisers, ran her upon the beach at Long Branch.
The enemy, landing in boats, set fire to the vessel and burned
her to the water's edge. The hulk floated ashore and was
lost. About half of the cargo was saved, part before she was
set on fire, and part after the fire was extinguished. Two
questions were raised as to the liability of the goods saved
to a general average. First,for the value of the vessel; and,
second, for that of the freight and cargo lost. The firstwhich, in fact, involves the other-was the only one argued
and decided. The court held in favor of the general average
for the value of the vessel.
So in Sims v. Gurneyj a case which, like Caze v. Reilly, has
twice received the approval of the Supreme Court of the
United States.t From the violence of the storm in the
Delaware Bay the ship, in this case, had to go ashore somewhere, and was in danger, if left to herself, of going upon
certain fiats, where her situation would have been extremely
perilous. The subsequent facts are stated by the court:
(p. 527.)
"To prevent that, the course was altered, and they stood for
Cape May, the most desirable place to run on shore. The captain wished to get to Cape May, and the pilot said he would try
for it, although he did not expect to effect it, but supposed they
would stick on a ridge about four miles from the Cape. On this
ridge the ship struck, according to the pilot's expectations. She
lost her rudder and labored very hard on the ridge; the mizzen
and mainmast were cut away to save her, and at length, con* 3 Washington's Circuit Court, 298.

t Columbian Insurance Company v. Ashby, 13 Peters, 848; Barnard w.
Adams, 10 Howard, 302
1 4 Binney, 518,

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF IIOPE.

Argument for the shipowners.

trary to expectation, she beat over and got into deep water
between the ridge and the Jersey shore. Being then quite ungovernable, she was at the mercy of the winds and currents,
which, most fortunately and unaccountably, brought her on the
shore near to Cape May, the object of their wishes. The damage was very considerable, both on the ridge and at the Cape,
and in the course of the argument the damage at these two
places has been the subject of' separate consideration."
It was held a case of general average, both as to the damage from striking on the ridge and as to that from stranding
on the beach at Cape May.
'Because,' says the court, ' the damage at Cape May was the
necessary result of running on the ridge. The ship lost her
rudder and masts on the ridge, in consequence of which she was
driven by the winds and waves on the shore near the cape. The
same reasoning applies to the boats. For it was left to the jury
to decide whether the damage done to them was in consequence
of running on the ridge.'"
The first damage was by striking on the ridge four miles
from Cape May, and was expected. The subsequent damage
done by the loss of her boats and her stranding on Cape
May was not only not expected, nor the result of an intention to effect that particular object, but was contrary to the
expectations of the ship's officers. It was, however, a consequence of the original act of exposure, and partook of its
character, because it was produced subsequently, by placing
her in a situation which made her peculiarly liable to damage: namely, running her on the ridge, where she beat till
she lost two of her masts and her rudder, and became unmanageable.*
The better doctrine is to treat all the facts connected with
or consequent upon the original fact of exposure as one se" And see Sturgess v. Cary, 2 Curtis, 59, 66, 67; Reynolds v. Ocean Insurance Co., 22 Pickering, 191; Gray v. Waln, 2 Sergeant & Rawle, 229;
Maggrath v. Church, 1 Caines, 196; Hennen v. Munro, 16 Martirds Louisiana, 449; also a case in the French Court of Aix Code de Commerce, Rgron's edition, note to Article 408.

STAR OF'

HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the shipowners.

ries: by reason of what a late writer calls the "oneness"
of an act of general average.*
I. Was the stranding of the ship such as to make the loss
occasioned thereby a subject of general average, within the
rule laid down ?
That this inquiry must be answered in the affirmative
seems sufficiently clear.
How is it possible, on the case stated, to deny that there
was an exposure, by the master, of his ship, to a distinct and
extraordinary peril, purposely made by him, as the only
escape from the instant destruction impending over ship,
cargo, and crew ?
The stranding is voluntary whenever the act of man in
any degree concurs with the vis major to produce the result.t
The statement is, that "stranding was one of the chief
risks he had assumed in attempting to run in." The other
facts show conclusively that he realized this danger fully.
They show that with his ship surrounded by the most pressing dangers, so thoroughly did he appreciate the perils of
entering, and so reluctant was he to encounter them, that
for three hours he held on outside, waiting for a pilot. A
more pregnant fact it would be difficult to imagine. When,
at last, he made up his mind to attempt to run in at all
hazards, it was not because he overlooked or underrated the
perils of the enterprise; but because it offered the only
chance of escape from the far greater dangers that surrounded him, and which had become too pressing for further
delay; and because, as the agreed statement says, "he preferred all the risks of running in to those of remaining outside." So stern was the necessity, that even though he
kndw the water was shoaling rapidly under him, the lead
showing successively eight, seven, six, five, four and a half,
and four fathoms, he dared not desist from the attempt to
make his way in. The next moment, as must have been
Hopkins's Average, 82, and cases cited.
H
- Emerigon (Meredith), 324, 475; Arnold on Insurance, 785-6 (Eng. ed.
1866), and note 1, p. 786; 4 Boulay Paty, 465, 457, 478.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Argument for the shipowners.

expected, the ship grounded, and after striking heavily, remained fast.
In the face of these facts it seems little to the purpose to
urge that the particular reef on which the ship struck was
unknown to the master, that he endeavored to get a pilot,
or even that he hoped or expected to take her safely in.
The theory of the court below was that to constitute a
general average loss there must be an intent recklessly to
destroy the thing selected for the exposure; a determination
to sacrifice it at all events, without regard to the ordinary
means of safety.
In truth, the intention to injure the jactus, as distinguished
from the ifitention to put it in a situation of exposure out of
the usual course, much less to injure it in any particular
manner, or by any particular rock or shoal, cannot be an
element of general average. Otherwise, goods lightered
would never be entitled to contribution; because, as to them
(as already remarked), so far from there being any intention
to injure them, the expectation commonly is that they will
be saved.*
So there is nothing in the fact that the captain tried to
get a pilot. Having determined on the effort to take his
ship in, it was his duty to do so, safely, if he could; and
the law of general average neither requires nor allows any
wanton exposure of property, or reckless disregard of the
ordinary precautions. Neither does it object that the master obtains safety for the rest, at the least possible risk to
the thing exposed.t
It is sufficient if there is a purpose to subject the jactus to
a distinct and extraordinary exposure in lieu of the rest.
That having been the master's purpose in this case, it is immaterial how far he hoped or endeavored to take his ship in
without serious injury. His purpose and intention were to
* Caze v. Reilly, supra, 214.

t Barnard v. Adams, 10 Howard, 270; Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, 618,
514, 615, 519; Mutual Insurance Co. v. Cargo of Ship George, Olcott, 89, 91,
92; Columbia Insurance Company v. Ashby, 18 Peters, 842; Emorigon, 824

(ch. 12,

18).

STAR OF HopE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the shipowners.

attempt to take her in at all hazards; and this purpose and
intention embraced all the consequences of the attempt. He
may have hoped they would not be serious, and may have
taken every precaution to that end; and he may not have
had beforehand a very definite idea of their precise character.
But, whatever they might be, he deliberately exposed his
ship to them. When one of them proved to be stranding,
that result took its character from the act whence it flowed.
That having been voluntary and with a purpose, the stranding was, in the eye of the law, voluntary also. The master's
efforts, or even his hopes to take his ship in safely, as they
could not control the event, do not affect its character.
The only remaining inquiry isIII. Was the risk taken in this case out of the usual course
of navigation and of the ship's duties as a carrier for the
voyage, so as to entitle the loss consequent thereon to come
into general average?
The place into which the master of the Star of Hope was
obliged to venture with her, as his only chance of escape,
was not his destined or any port, but a wild and desolate
bay, far from the paths of commerce and forsaken by man,
with a depth of water palpably dangerous and insufficient.
The attempt to talke her into such a place at all was not only
beyond his duty, but could not be justified except by circumstances so desperate as to leave no alternative between that
and destruction. The same circumstances inspired the motive which gives to the attempt, and to its consequences, the
character which we claim for them.
The circumstances of the present case illustrate forcibly
this important distinction between it and the cases put by
the district judg6.
If, after the deviation of the ship, while making for a port
of refuge, she had encountered an ordinary peril of the seas,
or one which, however extraordinary, was casual and wholly
unanticipated, and without the choice or agency of man, in
neither instance would the loss be general average. In the
former instance the loss is one of the ordinary incidents of
navigation; in the latter it lacks the essential element of an

Dec. 1869.]

STAR oF HOPE.
Argument for the owners of the cargo.

exposure made or a risk run by man's agency with a purpose, and that purpose the common safety from a known
danger.
But in the moment when the determination to take his
ship into an unknown bay, at whatever risk, was acted on
by the master, a new exposure of the ship was made, wholly
different in its character; an exposure to distinct perils,
made with a purpose of rescuing all the interests from a
common danger; an exposure which was the voluntary sacrifice of the ship, so far as the mind and agency of man were
concerned, or as respected any consequences that might
ensue.*
IV. [The counsel then directed his argument to the exceptions to the commissioner's report.]
Mr. Donahue, contra:
To make a loss or damage by stranding a subject of general average, the stranding must be voluntarily or purposely
done.
The question then presented, as applied to the circumstances of the case at bar, is this: Is the accidental stranding of a vessel to be deemed a voluntary or intentional
stranding within the meaning of the law, when it appears
that the stranding was either directly or incidentally occasioned by the intentional exposure of the vessel to extraordinary perils, out of the usual course of navigation and of the
ship's duties as a common carrier?
The principles established by different cases cited on
the other side, such as Caze v. Reilly,t Columbian Insurance
Company v. Ashby,t Sims v. Gurney,ยง Gray v. Waln,j seem
to be
1. That the intention to consign to inevitable loss the objects (whether the goods or the ship) which are selected to
bear the burden of the risk forms no element of the right to
contribution. This principle is expressly declared by the
v. Grinnell, 5 Duer, 415, 416.
- 3 Washington's Circuit Court, 298.
4 Binney, 513.

*Lee

1 13 Peters, 331.
2 Sergeant & Rawle, 229.

220

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the cargo,

Supreme Court in Barnard v. Adams,* and will not be denied in the present case.
2. It is also decided in these cases, that where a ship has
been voluntarily stranded, the circumstance that she is thereby
lost strengthens rather than destroys her claim for contribution against the cargo saved by the sacrifice.
8. That though the vessel may have been in the most imminent danger of being stranded by the force of the elements, yet, if the actual stranding is the immediate result of
human agency, and is different from the one impending, and
effected for the common safety, the case is one for general
average.
But in all these cases, the actual stranding as it occurred
was intentional. The doubt arose from the fact that a stranding of some kind was imminent, if not inevitable, and that
the volition of the master was exercised merely in the selection of a less dangerous part of the shore whereon to strand
his ship.
But in the case at bar it was no part of the master's intention to strand the vessel. The stranding was not only
involuntary but unexpected, except so far as he was aware
that in attempting to run into an unknown harbor he incurred that risk, amongst others, and that it was the chief
risk he encountered. That he voluntarily subjected the
vessel and cargo to whatever risks such a course involved
cannot be doubted, but it is equally clear that he did not
voluntarily and intentionally strand his vessel, that is, that
the stranding was not the immediate and direct result of an
intention to effect that particular object.
It may be said that the whole deviation to a port of distress, and especially the entering this port, was a sacrifice for
the common safety. But if an accidental damage of this
kind is to be allowed in general average, because it occurred
during a voluntary deviation, rendered necessary by a vis
major, and therefore is the effect and consequence of a sacrifice for the common safety, the same principle would require
10 Howard, 804.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Argument for the owners of the cargo.

that every loss incurred during such a deviation should be
contributed for.
Every peril encountered during a deviation is encoumitered
out of the usual course of navigation for the voyage, and
might, in a certain sense, be said to be the consequence and
efiet of a sacrifice made for the common safety. Thus, if
the damage consequent upon the voluntary exposure to the
dangers of entering an unknown harbor be general average,
by parity of reasoning losses arising from directing the ship
to parts of the seas where the chances of collision are greatly
increased, or to high latitudes, where the risks of damage
from icebergs are enhanced, or to stormy and inhospitable
coasts, where the damages of shipwreck might be far greater
than if the regular and usual course of the voyage had been
pursued, might also be contributed; for the practical results
of the principle contended for would be, that in all cases of
deviation all the interests would be bound to contribute, or
would become the insurers against any accidental damage
sustained by any one of them.
If it be said that the risk incurred in entering an unknown
and unfrequented harbor was extraordinary, we answer:
1. That in the cases supposed, and in many others, the
risks incurred in consequence of a deviation may be quite as
great and as much out of the usual course of navigation for
the voyage as those incurred by the Star of Hope.
2. That it would be impracticable for courts to make the
determination of the right to contribution depend upm: nice
discriminations between different degrees of peril, or to attempt to decide in each case whether the carrier was or was
not bound, by his contract, to expose his vessel to the precise
degree of risk he encountered; and,
3. That it is better to establish on such a subject a clear
and well-defined rule, susceptible of general application, than
to make the decision depend upon uncertain estimates of the
degree of risk encountered, and thus give rise to many unfounded claims and to incessant litigation.
Independently of what precedes, which is in fact the argument of the court below, we submit that the ship should

222

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Case restated in the opinion.

bear the loss, because by an express contract,-that namely,
of the charter-party,-the owner of the vessel expressly undertook to keep the vessel at his own expense in the condition
in which she ought to be. The charter made no exception.
On the whole case the ship should bear the loss.
Reply: To the point, taken here for the first time, that
the charter-party bound the owners to keep the ship staunch,
well-fitted, &c., for the voyage, the answer is: That this covenant is no more than the law would imply without express
words, and is subject to the understood exception of the
perils of the seas.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals in admiralty, brought here by the
claimants of the ship Star of Hope, from a decree of the
Circuit Court, rendered on appeal from a decree of the District Court, in four suits in rem instituted against the ship in
the latter court, three being for the non-performance of a
contract of affreightment, and the other for services rendered, and liabilities and expenses incurred, as consignees
of the vessel. Twelve other suits were also instituted against
the ship by other shippers for the non-delivery of their respective shipments, in which no appeals were taken, as the
amount in controversy in the several cases was less than two
thousand dollars.
1. Reference to one of the libels for the non-performance
of the afii'eightnient contract will be sufficient, as they all
contain substantially the same allegations. Take the first
one, for example, which was filed by the charterers. They
describe the intended voyage as one from the port of New
York to the port of San Francisco; they also allege that the
goods were shipped on board the vessel; that she sailed on
the tenth of February, 1856, from the port of shipment;
that on the eighteenth of April following, in entering or
attempting to enter the port of San Antonio, she accidentally
* The Casco, Davies, 185, 186, 187; Ames v. Belden, 17 Barbour, 513.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Case restated in the opinion.

grounded or stranded upon a bank or shoal there situated;
that she thereby received such injuries that she was obliged,
in order that she might be able to continue the voyage, to
put back to Montevideo for repairs; that the master, after
the vessel arrived there, being without money, credit, or
other means to execute the repairs, sold a valuable portion
of the goods shipped by and belonging to the libellants, of
the value of forty-four thousand seven hundred dollars, and
with the proceeds thereof paid fbr the said repairs; that the
repairs having been thus made the ship resumed her voyage,
and arrived safely at her port of destination ; that by reason
of the sale of their goods the libellants lost the whole amount
sold, arnd that the master and owners of the ship neglect and
refuse to make restitution.
2. Prior to the filing of the answer the fifteen affreightment suits were consolidated, and leave was given to the
claimants of the ship to file one general answer to all those
libels, and also to file one general stipulation therein for costs
and expenses.
Pursuant to that leave the claimants filed their answer, in
which they allege that the injury and damage to the ship at
the Bay of San Antonio were incurred by the master voluntarily and deliberately for the general safety, and especially
for the safety of the cargo and the lives of those on board,
and that consequently all loss and damage sustained by the
ship at that bay, and all costs and expenses of the subsequent
repairs, and all other necessary costs and expenses incurred
while at Montevideo and in getting to sea again, together
with the costs and expenses incurred for the wages and provisions of the master, officers, and crew, to the time when
the ship resumed her voyage, are, of right and according to
law, a subject of general average contribution, to be borne
by the ship, her freight, and her cargo, and also by the
owners thereof in their just proportions. Tliey also allege
that the goods of the libellants having been sold by necessity
to execute the repairs, are, of right, to be included in the
general average, together with all loss and damage to the
libellants in consequence of the sale at the port of distress.

224

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. at.

Case restated in the opihion.

3. Brief reference must also be made to the libel filed by
the consignees of the ship, as the fourth appeal under consideration is from that part of the decree relating to that
suit. Annexed to the libel is a schedule setting forth the
particular expenses and liabilities incurred for which the
suit is brought, and the appellants, in response to that claim,
allege, ii the answer, that if any such disbursements were
made, or any such expenses or liabilities were incurred, as
is therein supposed, the same are a portion of the general
average upon the ship, her freight, and cargo, to be borne
by them all ratably, as alleged in the answer to the other
libels.
Both parties consenting, the cause was referred to a commissioner to take and state an account and adjustment, upon
the basis that the damage, loss, and expenses incurred by
the ship are a subject of general average contribution, as
contended by the claimants. Subsequent to that order, and
before the bearing, the parties filed the agreed statement of
facts set forth in the record. Although filed subsequent to
the order of reference, still it is quite evident that it was
drawn up and agreed to prior to the order, as one of the
conditions of the order is that it shall not affect prejudicially
the agreements of the parties as contained in the agreed
statement.
Other evidence was introduced in addition to what is contained in the agreed statement, and the commissioner having
heard the parties reported his conclusions in writing to the
court, as directed in the order of reference. Exceptions to
the report were duly taken by both parties, and they were
again heard in support of the same; but the court being of
the opinion that the damage, loss, and expenses incurred by
the ship, as described in the answer and in the agreed statement, are not the proper subject of general average contribution, sustained the exceptions filed by the libellants, overruled those filed by the claimants, and entered the decree set
forth in the transcript. Appeal was taken by the claimants
from that decree to the Circuit Court, where the decree of
the District Court was in all things affirmed. Dissatisfied

Dec. 1869.]

STAR 0OF HOPE.
Case restated in the opinion.

with the decree as affirmed, the claimants appealed to this
court, and still insist that the damage, loss, and expenses
incurred by the ship are the proper subject of general average between the ship, her cargo, and freight, as alleged in
the answer, which is the principal question presented for
decision.
4. Much less difficulty will attend the solution of the question than is usual in cases of this description, as all the facts
material to be considered in deciding the case are set forth
in the agreed statement signed by the counsel of the respective parties.
Part of the cargo was furnished by the charterers, but large
quantities of goods were also shipped by the libellants in the
other libels, numbered from two to fifteen inclusive, and the
owners of the ship also, by the consent of the charterers,
shipped two hundred and forty-four and a half tons of coal
on their own account. They were not interested in the other
shipments, nor is it necessary to describe the goods composing the residue of the cargo, except to say that among the
merchandise shipped were five hundred casks and packages
of spirituous liquors, and forty or fifty kegs of gunpowder,
prepared as " patent safety fuses," and the agreed statement
shows that the spirituous liquors were stowed next to the
coal shipped by the owners.
With a full cargo on board, the ship sailed for her port
of destination on the day alleged in the pleadings, and during the voyage, to wit, on the fourteenth of April following,
it was discovered that great quantities of smoke and vapor
were issuing from the fore and after hatches of the ship.
She was proceeding on her voyage, at the time the discovery
was made, in latitude forty-six degrees south, longitude fiftythree degrees west, but the weather was squally and the sea
was rough. Precautions, such as are usual on such occasions,.
were immediately adopted: fhe hatches were ftstened down,,
and "everythino made tight," in order to check as much as
possible the progress of the fire, at least until a port of succor
could be reached.
Great alarm was felt, and the fears of all were much inVOL. IX.

15

STAR OF

Hopi.

[Sup. Ct.

Case restated in the opinion.

creased by the fact, well known to all, that the cargo contained prepared gunpowder and large quantities of spirituous
liquors. Under the circumstances the crew refused to continue the voyage, and the master determined, very properly,
as the parties agree, to make for the Bay of San Antonio, on
the southeast coast of Patagonia, as the nearest anchorage,
and at the end of four days the ship arrived off that bay, and
set the usual signal for a pilot.
Throughout that period the signs of fire continued to increase, and in getting up the chains, so as to be ready to cast
anchor without delay, they were found to be quite hot, and
there were other indications of fire, which greatly heightened
the general alarm. Unwilling to run into a bay, unknown
to him, without a pilot, the master set his signal as aforesaid
and waited three hours for one, but no one came, and it became evident that none could be expected, as the coast was
wild and desolate.
Something must be done, as the alarm increased as the
impending peril became more imminent. Haul off the master could not, as the wind and waves were against any such
movement. ie could not resume the voyage for the same
reason, and also because the crew utterly refused their cooperation; nor could he with safety any longer attempt to
"lie to," as the ship was gradually approaching the shore,
and because she was exposed both to the impending peril
of fire on board, and to the danger, scarcely less imminent,
of shipwreck from the wind and waves. Nothing, therefore,
remained for the master to do, which it was within his power
to accomplish, but to run the vessel ashore, which it is agreed
by the parties would have resulted in the "certain and almost
instant loss of vessel, cargo, and all on board," or to make
the attempt to run into the bay without the assistance of a
pilot. Evidently he would have been faithless to every interest committed to his charge if he had attempted to beach
the vessel at that time and place, as the agreed statement
shows that the weather was rough, that the wind was high
and blowing towards the land with a heavy sea, and that the
shore was rocky and precipitous.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Case restated in the opinion.

What the master did on the occasion is well described by
the parties in the agreed statement, in which they say he at
length determined, as the best thing to be done for the general safety, and especially for the preservation of the cargo
and the lives of those on board, to make the attempt to
run in without a pilot, preferring all risks to be thereby incurred rather than to remain outside in the momentary apprehension of destruction to all, and the parties agree that
he was fully justified in his decision as tested by all the
circumstances, although the ship in attempting to enter the
bay grounded on a reef, and before she could be got to sea
again sprung aleak and sustained very serious injuries in
her bottom.
Great success, howeve.r, attended the movement, notwithstanding those injuries, as the water taken in by the ship
extinguished the fire, and the ship remained fast and secure
from shipwreck until the winds subsided and the sea became
calm.
Repairs could not be made at that place, and the parties
agree that the injuries to the ship were such as fully justified
the master in returning to Montevideo for that purpose, as
that was the nearest port where the repairs could be made.
He arrived there on the twenty-seventh of the same month,
and it appears by the agreed statement that the just and
necessary expenses incurred by the ship at that port to
enable her to resume the voyage were one hundred thousand dollars, including repairs, unloading, warehousing, and
reloading of the cargo, and that the master, being without
funds or credit, was obliged to sell a considerable portion of
the cargo to defray those expenses.
Repaired and rendered seaworthy by those means the
ship, on the eleventh of September, in the same year, resumed her voyage and arrived at her port of destination on
the seventh of December following, and the master, without
unnecessary delay, delivered the residue of the shipments in
good order to the respective consignees, as required by the
contract of affieightment.

STAR OF HOPE .

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

5. General average contribution is defined to be a contribution by all the parties in a sea adventure to make good
the loss sustained by one of their number on account of sacrifices voluntarily made of part of the ship or cargo to save
the residue and the lives of those on board from an impending peril, or for extraordinary expenses necessarily incurred
by one or more of the parties for the general benefit of all
the interests embarked in the enterprise. Losses which give
a claim to general average are usually divided into two
great classes: (1.) Those which arise from sacrifices of part
of the ship or part of the cargo, purposely made in order to
save the whole adventure from perishing. (2.) Those which
arise out of extraordinary expenses incurred for the joint
benefit of ship and cargo.*
Common justice dictates that where two or more parties
are engaged in the same sea risk, and one of them, in a moment of imminent peril, makes a sacrifice to avoid the impending danger or incurs extraordinary expenses to promote
the general safety, the loss or expenses so incurred shall be
assessed upon all in proportion to the share of each in the
adventure.t
Where expenses are incurred or sacrifices made on ac.
count of the ship, freight, and cargo, by the owner of either,
the owners of the other interests are bound to make contribution in the proportion of the value of their several interests,
but in order to constitute a basis for such a claim it must
appear that the expenses or sacrifices were occasioned by an
apparently imminent peril; that they were of an extraordinary character; that they were voluntarily made with a
view to the general safety; and that they accomplished or
aided at least in the accomplishment of that purpose.1
Authorities may be found which attempt to qualify this
rule, and assert that where the situation of the ship was
such that the whole adventure would certainly and unavoid* 2 Arnould on Insurance, 770; McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wallace, 365.

t 2 Parsons on Insurance, 210; Ib. 277; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 346;
McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wallace, 366.
1 2 Phillips on Insurance, 61.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Opinion of the court.

ably have been lost if the sacrifice in question had not been
made, the party making it cannot claim to be compensated
by the other interests, because it is said that a thing cannot
be regarded as having been sacrificed which had already
ceased to have any value, but the correctness of the position
cannot be admitted unless it appears that the thing itself for
which contribution is claimed was so situated that it could
not possibly have been saved, and that its sacrifice did not
contribute to the safety of the crew, ship, or cargo. Sacrifices, where there is no peril, present no claim for contribution, but the greater and more imminent the peril the more
meritorious the claim for such contribution, if the sacrifice
was voluntary and contributed to save the associated interests from the impending danger to which the same were exposed.*
Such claims have their foundation in equity, and rest upon
the doctrine that whatever is sacrificed for the common benefit of the associated interests shall be made good by all the
interests which were exposed to the common peril -and which
were saved from the common danger by the sacrifice. Much
is deferred in such an emergency to the judgment and decision of the master; but the authorities, everywhere, agree
that three things must concur in order to constitute a valid
claim for general average contribution: First, there must be
a common danger to which the ship, cargo, and crew were all
exposed, and that danger must be imminent and apparently
inevitable, except by incurring a loss of a portion of the
associated interests to save the remainder. Secondly, there
must be the voluntary sacrifice of a part for the benefit of
the whole, as for example a voluntary jettison or casting
away of some portion of the associated interests for the purpose of avoiding the common peril, or a voluntary transfer
of the common peril from the whole to a particular portion
of those interests. Thirdly, the attempt so made to avoid
the common peril to which all those interests were exposed
Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 320; MacLachlan on Shipping, 866;
Barnard v. Adams, 10 Howard, 270.

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

must be to some practical extent successful, for if nothing is
saved there cannot be any such contribution in any case.*
Equity requires, says Emerigon, that in these cases those
whose effects have been preserved by the loss of the merchandise of others shall contribute to this damage, and commercial policy as well as equity favors the principle of contribution, as it encourages the owner, if present, to consent
that his property, or some portion of it, may be cast away
or exposed to peculiar and special danger to save the associated interests and the lives of those on board from impending destruction; and if not present, the moral tendency of
the well-known commercial usage is to induce the master to
exercise an independent judgment in the emergency for the
benefit of all concerned.t
Masters are often compelled, in the performance of their
duties, to choose between the probable consequences of imminent perils threatening the loss of the ship, cargo, and all
on board, and a sacrifice of some portion of the associated
interests iii their custody and under their control, as the
only means of averting the dangers of the impending peril
in their power to employ. They must elect in such an
emergency, and if they, in the exercise of their best skill
and judgment, decide that it is their duty to lighten the
ship, cut away the masts, or to strand the vessel, courts of
justice are not inclined to overrule their determinations.
Owners of vessels are under obligation to employ masters
of reasonable skill and judgment in the performance of their
duties, but they do not contract that they shall possess such
qualities in an extraordinary degree, nor that they shall do
in any given emergency what, after the event, others may
think would have been best. From the necessity of the
case the law imposes upon the master the duty, and clothes
him w4th the power, to judge and determine, at the time,
whether the circumstances of danger in such a case are or
are not so great and pressing as to render a sacrifice of a
" Barnard v. Adams, 10 Howard, 303; Patten v. Darling, 1 Clifford, 262;
2 Parsons on Insurance, 278.
t Enierigon, 467.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Opinion of the court.

portion of the associated interests indispensable for the common safety of the remainder. Standing upon the deck of
the vessel, with a full knowledge of her strength and condition, and of the state of the elements which threaten a
common destruction, he can best decide in the emergency
what the necessities of the moment require to save the lives
of those on board and the property intrusted to his care, and
if he is a competent master, if an emergency actually existed
calling for a decision whether such sacrifice was required,
and if he appears to have arrived at his conclusion with due
deliberation, by a fair exercise of his own skill and judgment, with no. unreasonable timidity, and with an honest
intent to do his duty, it must be presumed, in the absence
of proof to the contrary, that his decision was wisely and
properly made.*
Controversies respecting the allowance or adjustment of
general average more frequently arise in cases where the
sacrifice made consisted of a jettison of a portion of the
cargo than in respect to any other disaster in navigation.t
Explanations and illustrations upon the subject, therefore,
whether found in treatises or in judicial decisions, are usually
more particularly applicable to cases of that description than
to a case where the vessel was stranded, but the leading
principles of law by which the rights of parties are to be ascertained and determined in such cases are the, same whether
the sacrifice made consisted of a part of the cargo or of a
part or the whole of the ship, as the controlling rule is, that
what is given for the general benefit of all shall be made
good by the contribution of all, which is the germ and substance of all the law upon the subject.
Doubts at one time were entertained whether a loss occasioned by a voluntary stranding of the vessel, even though
it was made for the general safety, and to avoid the probable
consequences of an imminent peril to the whole adventure,
was the proper subject of general average contribution, but
Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 IHoward, 110; Dupont v. Vance, 19 Howard,
166; Patten v. Darling, 1 Clifford, 264.
t Birkiey v. Presgrave, 1 East, 227.

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

those doubts have long since been dissipated in most jurisdictions, and they have no place whatever in the jurisprudence of the United States.
Where the ship is voluntarily run ashore to avoid capture,
foundering, or shipwreck, and she is afterwards recovered so
as to be able to perform her voyage, the loss resulting from
the stranding, says Mr. Arnould, is to be made good by general average contribution, and the writer adds that there is
no rule more clearly established than this by the uniform
course of maritime law and usage.*
Sustained as that proposition is at the present day by universal consent, it does not seem to be necessary to refer to
other authorities in its support, nor is it necessary to enlarge
that rule in order to dispose of the present controversy, but
to prevent any misconception as to the views of the court it
is deemed proper to add that it is settled law in this court
that the case is one for general average, although the ship
was totally lost, if the stranding was voluntary and was designed for the common safety, and it appears that the act of
stranding resulted in saving the cargo.t
Undoubtedly the sacrifice must be voluntary and must
have been intended as a means of saving the remaining
property of the adventure, and the lives of those on board,
and unless such was the purpose of the act it gives no claim
for contribution, but it is not necessary that there should
have been any intention to destroy the thing or things cast
away, as no such intention is ever supposed to exist. On
the contrary it is sufficient that the property was selected to
suffer the common peril in the place of the whole of the associated interests, that the remainder might be saved.t
6. Suggestion is made that the act of stranding of the
vessel in this case was not a voluntary act, as the reef where
* 2 Arnould on Insurance, 784; Lewis v. Williams, 1 Hall, 440.

t Columbian Insurance Company v. Ashby, 13 Peters, 331 ; Cazev. Reilly,
3 Washington's Circuit Court, 298; Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, 513; Gray v.
Wain, 2 S. & R. 229; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 872; Merithew v. Sampson,
4 Allen, 192.
$ 1 Parsons on Shipping, 348.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Opinion of the court.

she grounded was not visible at the time and was unknown
to the master, but the agreed statement shows that in undertaking to run into the bay the master knew that the chief
risk he had to encounter was the stranding of the ship, and
the precautions which he took to guard against that danger
show to the entire satisfaction of the court that the disaster
was not altogether unexpected. As the ship advanced the
lead was constantly employed, showing eight fathoms at
first, then seven, then six only, and so on, the depth continuing to diminish at each throw of the lead until the ship
grounded and remained fast.
Grant that the master did not intend that the ship should
ground on that reef, still it is clear that he was aware that
such a danger was the chief one he had to encounter in entering the bay, and the case shows that he deliberately elected
and decided to take that hazard rather than to remain outside, where, in his judgment, the whole interests under his
control, and the lives of all on board were exposed to imminent peril if not to certain destruction. Under these circumstances it is not possible to decide that the will of man
did not in some degree contribute to the stranding of the
ship, which is all that is required to constitute the stranding
a voluntary act within the meaning of the commercial law.*
Suppose the storm outside the bay was irresistible and
overpowering, still it does not follow that there was no exercise of judgment, for there may be a choice of perils when
there is no possibility of perfect safety.t
Destruction of all the interests was apparently certain if
the ship remained outside, but the master under the circumstances elected to enter the bay, without the assistance of a
pilot, knowing that there was great danger that the ship
might ground in the attempt, but his decision was, that it
was better for. all concerned to make the attempt than to remain where he was, even if she did ground, and the result
shows that he decided wisely for all interests, as damage re2 Arnould on Insurance, 785; Emerigon, 324

t Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, 625; 2 Parsons on Contracts (5th ed.), 325,
and note y.

STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

sulted to none except to the ship, and she would doubtless
have been destroyed if she had continued to remain outside
of the bay.*
Guided by these considerations our conclusion is, that the
loss and damage sustained by the 'ship at the place of the
disaster, and the costs and expenses of the repairs, and all
the other costs and expenses as charged in the adjustment,
are the proper subject of general average contribution, as
alleged by the claimants in their answer.
Details will be avoided, as the decree must be reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
7. Apart from the error in the principle of the decree
there is a manifest error in the amount allowed in the first
case, but inasmuch as there must be a new hearing and a
new decree, the correction of the error can best be made in
the Circuit Court.
Brief consideration must also be given to the exceptions,
taken by the claimants, to the report of the commissioner,
which were overruled by the court.' They are three in number, and they will be considered in the order in which they
were made.
i. That the commissioner erred in charging the ship or
freight with any part of the expenses incurred by the charterers in the ex parte adjustment procured by them prior to
the order of reference to the commissioner.
Unusual difficulty attends the inquiry, on account of the
indefinite character of the exception and the uncertain state
of the evidence, but the conclusion of the court being that
the case is one for general average, it seems to the court that
those expenses constitute a matter to be adjusted between
the charterers and the libellants irrespective of the controversy presented in this record, unless the results of that adjustment were adopted and used by the commissioner. Influenced by these suggestions the exception is sustained, but
the matter is left open for further inquiry when the mandate
is sent down.
* Rea v. Cutler, 1 Sprague, 136.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Opinion of the court.

ii. That the commissioner erred in assuming that the valuation of the ship as given in the policy of insurance is the
proper basis of her contributory value iii the statement of
the amount for general average.
As a general rule, the value of the ship for contribution,
where she has received no extraordinary injuries during the
voyage, and has not been repaired on that account, is her
value at the time of her arrival at the termination of the
voyage, but if she met with damage before she arrived, by
perils of the sea, and had been repaired, then the value to
be assumed in the adjustment is her worth before such repairs were made. Neither party gave any evidence as to the
value of the ship pxior to the disaster except what appears
in the policy of insurance, and under the circumstances it is
difficult to see what better rule can be prescribed than that
adopted by the commissioner.*
Strictly speaking the rule is the value of the ship antecedent to the injuries received, but as that requirement can
seldom be met the usual resort is her value at the port of
departure, making such deduction for deterioration as appears to be just and reasonable.t
No proofs on that subject, except the policy of insurance,
was offered by either party, and inasmuch as ships are seldom
insured beyond their actual value the exception is overruled.
iii. That the commissioner erred in carrying into particular average certain expenses incurred by the master at the
port where the repairs were made, which should have been
regarded as the proper subject of general average.
Considerable difficulty also attends this inquiry for. the
want of a more definite statement of the grounds of the complaint. We think it plain, however, that the exception must
be sustained, as some of the matters charged as particular
average, in whole or in part, ought clearly to have been inHopkins on Average (3d ed.), 104; 2 Arnould on insurance, 812; Pa-

tapsco Insurance Co. v. Southgate, 5 Peters, 604; Clark v. United States
Insurance Co., 7 Massachusetts, 870; Dodge v. Union Insurance Co., 17 Id.
471.
j 1 Pitrsons on Shipping, 448; Mutual Safety Insurance Co. v. The Ship
George, Olcott, Rep. 157.

STAR OF ItOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cluded at their full value among the incidental expenses
necessarily incurred in making the repairs, but in view of
the circumstances we shall not attempt to do more than to
state the general principles which should regulate the adjustment in the particulars involved in the exception, and
leave their application to be made in the case by the court
below, where the parties, if need be, may again be heard.
8. Whatever the nature of the injury to the ship may be,
and whether it arose from the act of the master in voluntarily sacrificing a part of it or in voluntarily stranding the
vessel, the wages and provisions of the master, officers, and
crew from the time of putting away for the port of succor,
and every expense necessarily incurred during the-detention
for the benefit of all concerned, are general average.*
Repairs necessary to remove the inability of the ship to
proceed on her voyage are now regarded everywhere as the
proper subject of general average. Expenses for repairs beyond what is reasonably necessary for that purpose are not
so regarded, but it is not necessary to examine the exceptions to the rule with any particularity in this case, as the
parties agree that all the expenses incurred were necessary
to enable the ship to resume her voyage.
The wages and provisions of the master, officers, and crew
are general average from the time the disaster occurs until
the ship resumes her voyage, if proper diligence is employed
in making the repairs.t
Towing the ship into port, and extra expenses necessarily
incurred in pumping to keep her afloat until the leaks can
be stopped, are to be included in the adjustment.1
Surveys, port charges, the hire of anchors, cables, boats,
and other necessary apparatus, for temporary purposes in
making the repairs, are all to be taken into the account as
Abbott on Shipping, 601; Plummer v. Wildman, 3 Maule & Selwyn,
482; Walden v. Le Roy, 2 Caines, 262; Henshaw v. Insurance Co., Ib 274;
Nelson v. Belmont, 21 New York, 88; The Brig Mary, 1 Sprague, 18.
t Padelford v. Boardman, 4 Massachusetts, 548; Potter v. Ocean Insurance
Co., 3 Sumner, 27.
1 2 Phillips on Insurance (3d ed.), 1326; Orrok v. Commonwealth Insurance Co., 21 Pickering, 469.

Dec. 1869.]

STEAMBOAT BURNS.

Statement of the case.

well as the expenses of unloading, warehousing, and reloading the cargo after the repairs are completed.*
Repairs in such a case cannot be made by the master unless
he has means or credit, and if he has neither, and his situation is such that he cannot communicate with the owners, he
may sell a part of the cargo for that purpose if it is necessary
for him to do so in order to raise the means to make the
repairs. Sacrifices made to raise such means are the subject
of general average, and the rule is the same whether the
sacrifice was made by a sale of a part of the cargo or oby the
payment of marine interest.t
Governed by these rules it is believed the rights of the
parties may be adjusted without serious difficulty or danger
of mistake.
DECREE REVERSED

in respect to each of the four cases be-

fore the court.

STEAMBOAT BURNS.
1. A writ of error or appeal to this court cannot be sustained in the name
of a steamboat, or any other than a human being, or some corporate or
associated aggregation of persons.
2. The acts of the State legislatures authorizing suits to be sustained by or
against steamboats by name, confer no right so to sustain them in the
Federal courts.

3. Any person, however, who in the State courts has substantially made
himself a party to the case, by asserting on the record his interest in the
vessel, and conducting the defence in the highest court of the State, may
prosecute a writ of error in his own name in this court under the 25th

section of the Judiciary Act.

TiEsE were two cases brought before the court by what
purported to be writs of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri. The writ in the first case referred to a judgment in
Potter v. Ocean Insurance Co., 3 Sumner, 42; The Brig Mary, 1 Sprague,
18; Stevens & Benecke, 76.
t Orrok v. Commonwealth Insurance Co., 21 Pickering, 469; 1 Parsons
on Shipping, 400.

