630

THE CORSICA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

fendant, and whether he had confirmed his conveyance after
he attained his majority.
The ninth request for instruction presented an abstract
question not raised by anything in the case. The court did
well to decline answering it. Certainly it should not have
been affirmed.
The eleventh proposition was affirmed, and the twelfth
was correctly answered, as we have shown in our remarks
upon the seventh.
We have thus reviewed the entire record and have found
no error. If anything has been left unnoticed it is because
we consider it unimportant. The plaintiff has himself well
summed up the case by stating that there are but two ques-,
tions presented by it: "First, was the deed of May 8th,
1849, void by reason of its contravening the act of Congress
of September 4th, 1841, or ineffectual to pass the subsequently acquired title and estate of the plaintiff under the
patent of October 8th, 1849? Second, if the deed was
merely voidable by reason of the infancy of the grantor, did
he, after be came of age, affirm it?" The first we have answered in the negative, and the second was properly submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE CORSICA.
1. Where two vessels, moving under steam, are crossing so as to involve a
risk of collision, if the ship which has the other on her starboard does
keep out of the way of the other, as a ship in that position is directed

to do by the Rules of Navigation adopted by Congress, by the act of
April 29th, 1864, and a collision occurs, from the other vessel's not
having kept on her course-as under the said rules, it is impliedly her
duty in such a state of movements to do-the obligation rests on this
last vessel to show sufficient causes existing in the particular case which
rendered a departure from the rule necessary to avoid an immediate
danger.

Dee. 1869.]

THE CORSICA.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

2. A steam vessel sailing in a harbor like that of New York, where there
are vessels at anchor and'in motion, is bound to move at no headway
not entirely controllable.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, affirming a decree of the District Court of
said district; in which latter court Samuel Schuyler, owner
of the steamer America, had libelled the steam-propeller
Corsica, one of the steamers of the Cunard line, for damages
which his vessel had suffered by being, as he alleged, run
into by the Corsica, in the harbor of New York. The collision occurred on the 9th of September, 1865, about midday; the weather having been clear, and the vessels for some
time previously in plain sight of each other. The libelled
vessel, the Corsica, laid the blame of the disaster wholly
on the other steamer. The District Court decreed for the
libellant; the Circuit Court affirmed that decree, condemning the Corsica in $33,000 damages and costs. Whereupon
the owners of the Corsica appealed to this court.

Mr. D. D. Lord, for the appellant; Mr. Van Sandvoord,
contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the facts, and delivered
the opinion of the court.
The pleadings and evidence in the case show that the Corsica, having just steamed out from her dock, preparatory to
her outward passage, had turned her stem southwardly, and
was proceeding, at a distance of about three or four hundred
yards from the line of the Jersey City wharves, straight down
the river towards the Narrows. The evidence as to her
speed is contradictory. Her master says about five or six
knots an hour; the master of the America says eight or nine
knots, and the pilot, seven or eight miles. The chief engineer of the Corsica says she was gradually increasing her
speed, and had got up to fifteen revolutions per minute; that
at full speed she made twenty-five revolutions and ten knots
an hour. Fifteen revolutions would therefore make about
six knots, which is equivalent to seven miles an hour. A

TnE CORSICA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

number of vessels were at anchor on the westerly side of the
river, and some to the east; amongst others two ships nearly
opposite the Battery, one a little southerly of the other.
Whilst the Corsica was thus starting on her course, the
America came around the Battery from the East River, at a
speed of about six miles an hour, passed between the two
ships above mentioned, and directed her course across the
river in a diagonal line, making for her wharf in Jersey City,
where she was accustomed to take in coal and water. Her

A,
0-

course lay across that of the Corsica, and the men on the
two vessels each saw the approach of the other when they
were about four hundred or five hundred yards apart. From
the course the vessels were respectively pursuing, the one
southerly, nearly in line with the river, and the other north-

:Dec. 1869.]

THu, CORSICA.
Opinion of the court.

westerly, in a diagonal line, the Corsica was off the starboard
bow of the America, and the latter was off the larboard bow
of the Corsica. Both being steamers, and standing on an
equal footing, they were subject to the following rule, adopted
by Congress in the act of April 29th, 1864 :*
"If two ships under steam are crossing so as to involve risk
of collision, the ship which has the other on her own starboard
side shall keep out of the way of the other."
This rule made it the duty of the America to keep out of
the way of the Corsica; and, by implication, the correspondin- and reciprocal duty of the Corsica to keep on her course.
It can hardly be doubted from the evidence, taken together,
that had the Corsica kept on her course, the collision would
not have occurred. The diagrams furnished by the counsel
for the appellants render this fact very clear and demonstrable. But, instead of doing this, the persons in charge of the
Corsica, just before the collision occurred, ordered her helm
hard a-starboard, and thus turned her right upon the America, which, as in duty bound, was backing out of her way.
It is so apparent that this was the immediate cause of the
disaster that it casts the burden of proof upon the appellants
to show a sufficient cause in the conduct of the America to
justify such a sudden change of course. We have carefully
examined the testimony to see if anything of the kind was
elicited, and have failed to find it. It is admitted by the
pilot of the America that his first intention was to pass ahead
of the Corsica; but seeing that it was risky, he took the more
prudent course of stopping and backing. The master of the
Corsica says, in effect, that the America had got right ahead
of him, in his way, and he was obliged to turn to the left as
the best means of avoiding or diminishing the danger. Now,
the diagram of the courses of the two vessels shows that this
could not have been so, until the Corsica had herself changed
her course. And the master of the Corsica admits that instead of keeping her course, her helm was starboarded, and
* 13 Stat. at Large, 60.

CITY OF PARIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

her course was altered two points, for the purpose of passing
under the stern of the America, soon after the latter vessel
was discovered. This, if so, was the first error. It was the
business of the Corsica, as we have seen, to have kept on her
course. After this, perceiving the danger she had brought
upon herself, her helm was again starboarded, and the collision ensued. According to the master of the Corsica's own
account, therefore, the accident occurred in consequence of
her assuming to perform the duty which devolved on the
America under the Congressional rule above quoted.
It is also evident that the Corsica was under considerable
headway when the collision occurred. The force of the blow
proves this. The America did not contribute to the effect
of the blow, for the weight of the evidence is, that she was
backing away from the Corsica at the time. The fact is, that
the latter vessel was under too much speed for the place she
was in-a crowded harbor, spotted with vessels at anchor
and in motion. This made her headway uncontrollable, and
accounts for the fact that, although her officers tried to check
her speed, they were only very partially successful.
We are satisfied that the decree of the Circuit Court was
right, and ought to be
AFFIRMED.

CITY OF PARIS.
1. The rule declared in the preceding case as to the obligation of large steam
vbssels moving in a crowded harbor, like New York, to move slowly

and to keep themselves under such entire control as to be able to stop
on short notice, declared anew.
2. Such steamers should keep a vigilant lookout, and if they enter narrow
passages, between other vessels, do so only when they plainly see that
they can proceed through them without danger to other vessels. If
notwithstanding all their caution and vigilance they see any vessel ap-

proaching, so as to make a danger of collision, they should stop and
reverse their engine as soon as is possible.

THIS was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
I

