THE

NORTHERN BELLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TiiE

NORTHERN BELLE.

1. It is the duty of the carrier of grain in bulk, in barges on our Western
rivers, in the way now usual, as distinguished from the old way in
sacks, to see that his barge is capable of resisting, without subjecting
the cargo to injury, all the external forces to which it is subjected in
the ordinary course of navigation, including especially those incident
to the narrow, crooked, and shallow water, and the often changing
courses in the currents, of the rivers where they are ; and to the force
with which the large steamers which have them in tow are often brought
against their sides in landing, as they do, for the purposes of their ordinary business, every few miles on the river.
2. The barge must be so tight that the water will not reach the cargo, so
strong that these ordinary applications of external force will not spring
a leak or sink her, so sound that she will safely carry the cargo in bulk
through these ordinary shocks to which she must every day be subjected. If she is capable of this she is seaworthy ; if she is not, she is
unfit for the navigation of the river. No other test can be given, and
this must be determined by the facts in each particular case.
3. It is the duty of the carrier to have his barges often exafnined and thoroughly inspected so as to be sure of their condition. He should not
use a barge after she has become from age or decay or injury unfit for
use, and should repair them often and well, so long as they can by repairing be safely used, and no longer. For this he is to be held rigidly
responsible.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, the case
being .this:
The La Crosse and Minnesota Steam Packet Company,
owners of the steamboat Northern Belle, and engaged in the
carrying trade on the Upper Mississippi, undertook to carry
for a certain Robson, in their barge Pat Brady, five thousand bushels of wheat from Hasting9, in Minnesota, to La
Crosse, in Wisconsin, and safely deliver the same, the unavoidable dangers of the river and fire only excepted. On
the voyage the barge was sunk and the wheat damaged, and
the Home Insurance Company, which had given a policy on
the wheat and paid it, filed a libel in admiralty against the

steamer and her barge, to recover the loss.

The principal question in issue was the seaworthiness of
the barge. The injury occurred May 12th. About the
latter part of June following, after another accident and loss

Dec. 1869.]

THE N ORTHERN BELLE.
Opinion of the court.

of a cargo on the same barge, she was placed upon the ways
for repairs. And the depositions of several witnesses who
examined her carefully at this time were now before the
court. One of these witnesses testified that he found over
ninety timbers rotted and gone, so much so that they were
not strong enough to make a fastening to. At one point
there were four side timbers rotted out, so as to leave about
five feet without support. Her floor-timber ends were much
decayed. Another witness stated that on one side he found
about fifty rotted timbers, some of them entirely rotted off;
on the other side about the same, fifteen or twenty of them
rotted entirely off. A third witness, a ship carpenter, confirmed this, testifying that the effect of it would be that any
strong pressure against her sides or bottom, from getting
aground or surging against a steamboat, would cause her to
leak; an inference which it hardly needed a ship carpenter
to draw for the court.
The evidence in the immediate case showed that on the
occasion when the present catastrophe took place, the steamboat was descending the river in the night, when a slight
shock was felt on the barge, so slight that it was not communicated to the boat. It did not stop or retard either the
barge or the boat, but in a few minutes the former was found
to be sinking, and had to be grounded on the nearest sandbar. No rock or snag was proved to be in the river at the
place where the shock first occurred.
The Pat Brady was an old barge which had been formerly
called Fort Snelling. But about a year before this catastrophe, she had been repaired and sent forth with a new
name.
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellant, and
the Circuit Court affirmed that decree. The case was now
brought here by the packet company.
Mr. Cary, for the appellant; Mr. Emmons, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
As the decision of the cause turns upon the fitness of the

TiE

NoRTHERN

BELLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

barge for the purpose of the voyage, or, in the language of
the admiralty, on its seaworthiness (a question which, as applicable to the peculiar condition of this navigation, is before
us for the first time), we propose to examine into some of the
principles on which that question must be decided.
For many years the grain which was transported by steamboats on the Western rivers was first put in sacks, and then
placed in the hold of the vessel, or if that was filled, was laid
around on the decks. But as this commerce in the cereals
increased in. importance, including, as it does, the wheat,
corn, rye, oats, barley, &c., of that immense agricultural region, it became a necessity to have the freight as cheap as
possible. The cost of the sacks in which the grain was carried, and the labor of filling and securing them, and loading
and unloading, was a heavy item in transportation. The
railroads, which had become active competitors for this carrying trade, did not use sacks, but placed the grain in bulk
in cars adapted to the purpose. To facilitate the loading
and unloading or grain these railroad companies introduced
on their lines, and at the termini of their roads on the rivers,
immense buildings called grain elevators. In these buildings the grain was carried by machinery up into bins, and
then by its own gravity let down through conductors into
the cars, which were thus loaded in a few minutes. The
introduction of this mode of loading and carrying grain by
the railroads, and the competition which they presented to.
river transportation, introduced in the latter the use of
barges, in which grain was carried in bulk, without sacks,
and loaded from elevators, as was done by the railroads.
This mode of river transportation, which is often auxiliary
to the railroads, has superseded almost entirely the old mode
of carrying by sacks in the hold of the vessel, and its present
importance and future growth can hardly be over-estimated.
It is, therefore, of great consequence to determine, upon
sound principles, the rights and liabilities of the carrier and
the owner of the cargo in these cases, in regard to these
barges, so far as they are open for consideration.
The barges are owned by the same persons who own the

Dec. 1869.]

THE

NORTHERN BELLE.

Opinion of the court.

steamboats by which they are propelled, and are generally
considered as attached to and making part of the particular
boat in connection with which they are used; though quite
often an individual or corporation owning several boats, running in a particular trade, have a large number of barges,
which are taken in tow by whatever boat of the same line
may be found most convenient. In every case, however,
the barge is considered as belonging to the boat to which
she is attached for the purposes of that voyage.
. The question that arises in the case before us has reference
to the extent of the duty or obligation which the law imposes
upon tie owners of such a steamboat in regard to the condition of the barge in which grain is so carried in bulk, as
to seaworthiness or fitness to perfor~i the voyage which her
owners had undertaken that she should perform safely, with
the exception of the unavoidable dangers of the river and
of fire.
This duty is one which must obviously belong exclusively
to the carrier. He can and must know, at his own peril,
the condition of the barge in which he proposes to carry
the goods of other people; while the owner of the cargo is
under no obligation to look after this matter, and has no
means of obtaining any sure information if' he should attempt it.
When we come to consider what shall constitute fitness
or unfitness for the voyage we must take into account the
nature of the service which she is to perform, and the dangers attending the navigation in which she is engaged.
This is very different in the narrow current and shallow
water of the river from what it is in open seas or lakes or
their bays and inlets. The necessities of river navigation
require steamboats and barges to pass throngh narrow and
crooked channels, and to venture on very shallow water, a
water which is constantly varying in its depth, and a channel which often changes its course in a few (lays very materially. The consequence of this is that both steamboats
and barges often get aground temporarily and are soon got
off and resume their voyage. Often they rub the bottom of
VOL. IX.

84

530

THE NORTHERN BELLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the river for many feet on crossing a sand-bar at low water,
and pass on without injury or interruption. These large
steamboats, having a barge or barges in tow, lashed to them
loosely, as they must be, are often brought against their sides
with much force. They land for the purposes of their ordinary business at every ten or twelve miles of their voyage
at the towns and landings on the river, and in doing so must
necessarily impinge with more or less force against the barge
which is between the boat and the shore. These are the
daily and hourly external forces to which the barge is subjected in the ordinary course of navigation.
It is the duty of the carrier to see that his barge is capable
of resisting these forces without subjecting the cargo to injury. She must be so, tight that the water will not reach
the cargo, so strong that these ordinary applications of external force will not spring a leak or sink her, so sound that
she will safely carry the cargo in bulk through these ordinary
shocks to which she must every day be subjected. If she
is capable of this she is seaworthy; if she is not, she is unfit
for the navigation of the river. No other test can be given,
and this must be determined by the facts in each particular
case.
In the one now under consideration, if regard be had to
the evidence as to the condition of the Pat Brady, there is
not much difficulty. [The learned Justice here recapitulated the testimony as already given as to the condition of
the boat.] It is argued by the claimants that the barge
struck a sunken rock or snag with such force as to tear open
her planks, and that the sinking was one of the unavoidable
dangers of the river. But without attempting any nice criticism of that phrase, we are entirely satisfied that there was
no shock or force which a strong, well-built barge would not
have sustained without injury. The slight character of the
shock, the rotten condition of the barge, the additional fact
that she was an old barge which had been repaired and had
her name changed a year or so before the accident, all prove
this. No snag or rock was proved to exist there. It was,
in all probability, an ordinary rub over a sand-bar, which the

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED

STATES V.

PADELFORD.

Statement of the case.

barge, in her decayed condition, could not stand without
leaking.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES

V. PADELFORD.

1. Claimants under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, of March
12th, 1863, are not deprived of the benefits of that act because of aid
and comfort not voluntarily given by them to the rebellion.
2. But voluntarily executing as surety, through motives of personal friendship to the principals, the official bonds of persons acting as quartermasters or as assistant commissaries in the rebel army, was giving aid
and comfort to the rebellion; although the principals, by their appointment to the offices named, escaped active military service, and were
enabled to remain at home in the discharge of their offices respectively.
3. Taking possession of a city by the National forces was not, of itself, and
without some actual seizure of it in obedience to the orders of the commanding general, a capture, within the meaning of the act, of the cotton
which happened to be in the city at the time of the entry of the forces.
4. Hence, where prior to any such seizure an owner of cotton, who, though
opposed to the rebellion, had given aid and comfort to it to the extent
above-mentioned, but was not within any of the classes excepted by the
President's proclamation of December 8th, 1863, and in regard to whose
property in the cotton no rights of third persons had intervened-took
the oath prescribed by that act and kept it-Held, after a seizure and
sale of the cotton by the government, that he was entitled to the net proceeds as given to loyal owners under the Abandoned and Captured
Property Act. Having been pardoned, his offence, in executing the
bonds, could not be imputed to him.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

That court bad found
the following case:
That among the citizens of Georgia during the late rebellion was one Edward Padelfbrd. That he never gave any
voluntary aid or comfort to the late rebellion or to persons
engaged therein; but " consistently adhered to the United
States," unless the matter of certain special facts constituted
in law such aid and comfort. The special facts were these:
"In April, 1861, after the breaking out of the rebellion, a
subscription for a loan of $15,000,000 to the Confederate
government was opened in the city of Savannah, and all

