290

BURNETT V. CALDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

an officer who has no control of the evidences of claims filed
with the recorder of land titles.
Being an officer of the government, it is possible that this
certificate of a survey, which he is authorized to make, may
bind the United States, but we cannot see how it can determine, conclusively, the rights of private persons, which are
not considered by him, and still less the rightfulness of a
claim submitted by Congress to other tribunals for investigation, and reserved to itself for final approval or rejection.
The case of Kissell v. Public Schools, is very much relied
on to establish the conclusiveness of this certificate. That
was a contest between the public schools and a person claiming under the pre-emption laws. The court, in discussing
the effect of a certificate of survey in favor of the schools,
precisely like the one in the present case, said that, as to the
public schools, they were bound by it, and so was the government. " The parties interested," says the court, " have
agreed that this land was a school lot, and here the matter
must rest, unless some third person can show a better title."
The court held, in that case, that Kissell did not show a
better title, by a common entry and purchase as pre-emptor,
because the land, being within the limits of the town of St.
Louis, was reserved from sale. The clear implication here
is, that when there is a better ,title, the certificate of survey
is not conclusive against that title.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BURNETT V. CALDWELL.

1. Where a purchaser of real estate fails to comply with the terms of the
contract under which he obtained possession, the vendor is at liberty to
treat the contract as rescinded, and to regain the possession by ejectment. In such case, in the State of Georgia, and in this country generally, it is not necessary to give notice to quit before bringing the

action.

Dec. 1869.]

BURNETT V. CALDWELL.

Statement of the case.
2. In

ejectment brought under such circumstances an inquiry of the defendant, when examined as a witness, what he gave for the property,
how much he had paid, in what manner he had paid, and whether he
had paid a valuable consideration, is irrelative.

EiRoR to the District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia, the case being this:
In 1850, one Rogers being in possession of certain premises for some years; sold them to persons from whom they
passed to the Rome Female College. And this college executed a somewhat peculiar deed conveying them to Caldwell. Caldwell being thus in possession and claiming title,
sold them in January, 1864, to a certain Vliet. Vilet paid
him $4000, and gave him two promissory notes, each for
$7000, payable in the course of the year at dates fixed. Caldwell at the same time executed to Vliet a title bond in the
penal sum of $ 6,000, reciting the payment of the $4000 and
the delivery of the notes, and conditioned that if Vliet should
pay the notes at maturity and Caldwell should thereupon
make to him " a good warranty title in fee simple" for the
premises, the bond should be void. The bond was silent as
to the right of Vliet to occupy the premises, but Caldwell
put him in possession. Vliet transferred the bond and delivered possession to Burnett. Nothing having been paid on
the notes, and more than three years having expired since
the maturity of the one last payable, Caldwell brought ejectment against Burnett to recover possession of the property.
He had given him no notice to quit.
On the trial, Burnett the defendant being on the stand,
his counsel proposed to ask him what he had given for the
property, how much he had paid and in what manner, and
whether he had paid a valuable consideration. The court,
on objection, overruled the interrogatory.
In addition to this, various questions were made before
the court as to whether Rogers had or had not a valid title
by virtue of the statute of limitations, whether Caldwell
had or had not a perfect paper title, and whether the deed
executed by the trustees of the Rome Female College was
valid or not.

BURNETT V.

CALDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court (Erskine, J.) gave instructions on all those
points, but in addition instructed the jury that "if a purchaser failed to comply with the terms of a contract under
which he obtained possession, the vendor was at liberty to
teat the contract as rescinded, and regain the possession by
an action of ejectment; that in such case neither a demand of
possession nor a notice to quit was necessary; that the ejectment here was not brought to enforce the contract of sale,
but to regain possession of the land acquired under it."
Verdict and judgment went for the plaintiff, Caldwell;
and the defendant, Burnett, brought the case here.
Mr. Thompson, for the plaintiff in error,went into argument
to show that the instructions as to the statute of limitations
-as to Caldwell's paper title, and the deed executed by the
trustees of the Rome Female College-were erroneous; and
particularly to show that the instructions above quoted, as to
the right to bring ejectment and this without notice, were so.
Mr. J. E. Brown submitted an able brief contra, along with a
MS. report of a late case, Mc&an v. Stansel, in the Supreme
Court of Georgia, deciding that, in a case like the present,
ejectment might be brought without any notice to quit.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Georgia. The suit was
an action of ejectment, prosecuted by the defendant in error
to recover possession of the premises described in his declaration. The view which we take of the case renders it
unnecessary to consider several of the exceptions which are
found in the record. The facts as they appear, and which
are undisputed, are as follows:
Caldwell was in possession, claiming title. On the 26th
of January, 1864, he sold to Vliet, who paid him $4000, and
executed to him two promissory notes, each for $7000, payable, respectively, on the 1st of April and the 1st of July
following, with interest from date. Caldwell at the same
time executed to Vliet a title bond in the penal sum of

Dec. 1869.]

BURNETT V.

CALDWELL.

Opinion of the court.

$.36,000. It recited the payment of the $4000 and the execution of the notes, and was conditioned that if Vilet should
pay the notes at maturity, and Caldwell should thereupon
make to him "a good warranty title in fee simple" for the
premises, the bond should be void' The bond was silent as
to the right of Vliet to occupy the premises, but Caldwell
put him in possession. Vliet transferred the bond and delivered possession to Burnett. Nothing having been paid
on the notes, and more than three years having expired
since the maturity of the one last payable, Caldwell instituted this suit to oust Burnett and recover back possession
of the property.
The legal principles which must govern the determination
of the case are all well settled. If the contract in such cases
be silent as to possession by the vendee, he is not entitled to
it.* If the contract stipulates for possession by the vendee,
or the vendor puts him in possession, he holds as a licensee.
The relation of landlord and tenant does not subsist between
the parties. The characteristic feature of that relation is
wanting. The vendee pays nothing for the enjoyment of
the property. The case comes within the category of a
license.t In such cases the vendee cannot dispute the title
of the vendor any more than the lessee can question the title
of his lessor.1 The assignee of the vendee is as much bound
by the estoppel as the vendee himself.ยง Upon default in
payment of any instalment of the purchase-money, the possession becomes tortious, and the vendor may at once bring
ejectment.11 Ejectment may sometimes be maintained when
covenant for the purchase-money could not.
Suffcrn v. Townsend, 9 Johnson, 35; Erwin v. Olmsted, 7 Cowen, 229.
j- Co. Litt. 52, b; Mumford v. Whitney, 15 Wendell, 880; Dolittle v.
Eddy, 7 Barbour, S. C. 78; Watkins v. Holman, 16 Peters, 64; Blight's
Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wheaton, 635.

:1 Whiteside v. Jackson, I Wendell, 418; Jackson v. Moncrief, 5 Id. 26;
Jackson v. Stewart, 6 Johnson, 34; Hamilton v. Taylor, Little's Select
Cases, 444.
Jackson v Walker, 7 Cowen, 637.
1 Wendell, 418; 5 Id. 26; 7 Cowen, 637, cited supra.

Wright v. Moore, 21 Wendell, 230.

BURNETT V.

CALDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In England it is necessary to give notice to quit before
bringing ejectment.* In this country, generally, the rule is
otherwise.t In the case before us, the question must be
decided according to the local law of Georgia. The authorities upon the subject, cited in the brief for the defendant
in error, and especially the manuscript case of McHan v.
Slansel, decided by the Supreme Court of that State, at the
June Term, 1869, and not yet reported, establish the proposition that such notice in this case was not necessary.
The plaintiff's lessor was clearly entitled to recover upon
these grounds. This renders it immaterial whether Rogers
had or had not a valid title by virtue of the statute of limitations, whether Caldwell had or had not a valid title under
the same statute, or a perfect paper title, and whether the
deed executed by the trustees of the Rome Female College
was valid or not. Resolving all these questions in the negative, the right of the plaintiff's lessor to recover was not
affected. The instructions relating to these subjects may,
therefore, be laid out of view. In any just view of the subject they could have worked no injury to the plaintiff iu
error.
The testimony offered as to the amount paid by Burnett
to Vliet for the property was irrelevant, and was properly
excluded.
In Marlin v. Willink,t where the leading facts were substantially identical with those upon which the questions
before us have arisen, Judge Duncan said: "This is the
plainest case in the world." Ejectment was held to have
been properly brought by the vendor, and a judgment in his
favor was sustained. Whatever relief the plaintiff in error
may be entitled to must be sought in equity. Ile can have
none at law.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Right v. Beard, 13 East, 210; Doe v. Jackson, 1 Barnewall & Cresswell, 448.

t 7 Cowen, 63; 7 Barbour, S. C. 74, cited supra.
1 7 Sergeant & Rawle, 297.

