Dec. 1869.]

THoMSON

V.

PACIFIC

RAILROAD.

579

Statement of the case.

to strangle the incipient right of the actual settler on the
public lands. If it can be done in this case, it can be done
in every other in which a plaintiff is willing to proceed
against the officers, without bringing the settler on the land
before the court.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

TiioMSON

V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

1. Although, confessedly, Congress may constitutionally make or authorize
contracts with individuals or corporations for services to the government; may grant aids by money or land in preparation for and in the
performance of such services; may make any stipulation and conditions
in relation to such aids not contrary to the Constitution, and may exempt, in its discretion, the agencies employed in such services from any
State taxation which will really prevent or impede the performance of
them ; yet in the absence of all legislation on the part of Congress to
indicate that such an exemption is deemed by it essential to the full
performance of the party's obligations to the government, the exemption cannot be applied to the case of a corporation deriving its existence
from State law, exercising its franchise under such law, and holding its
property within State jurisdiction and under State protection, only because of the employment of the corporation in the service of the government.
2. The point decided in McCulloch v. Maryland does not establish a broader
doctrine even if some of its reasoning may seem to do so.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court fbr the District of Kansas. The case
was this:
The Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division,
was originally incorporated in 1855, by the legislature of
the Territory of Kansas, as the Leavenworth, Pawnee, and
Western Railroad Company, with authority to construct the
road from the west bank of the Missouri to the western
boundary of the Territory. Subsequently, in 1862, under
an act of the State of Kansas, it assumed its present name,
with authority to unite or consolidate with any other corn-

THOMSON V. PA01FIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pauy or companies organized, or to be organized, under the
laws of the United States, or of any State or Territory.
Some months later, the Union Pacific Railroad Company
was incorporated by Congress, with power (conferred by the
original act of 1862 and various amendatory acts) to construct a railroad and telegraph westward through the territory of the United States, friom the hundredth meridian east
of Greenwich, to connect with the Central Pacific Railway
Company, incorporated by the State of California, and so
to form, in connection with eastern roads, a continuous line
from ocean to ocean. Several other railroad companies,
already incorporated by Missouri and Iowa, as well as the
company just mentioned, chartered by Kansas, were authorized to construct roads through the National territory, so as
to join the Union Pacific road on the hundredth meridian;
and to all these roads large grants of land were made, and
large subsidies engaged on the security of a second mortgage, upon the condition of paying, at maturity, the bonds
advanced by way of subsidy, and of rendering certain services to the government in the transmission of messages,
and in the transportation of mails, troops, munitions, and
other property, at reasonable rates of compensation.
But neither by the original act, nor by any amendment,
did Congress undertake to incorporate any railroad company, or authorize the construction of any railroad within
the limits of any State, without the content of the State
concerned. And this was as true of the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, as of any other of the roads
aided by Congress. Whatever was done by Congress in
reference to this last-named road, was done not merely with
the consent, but upon the solicitation of the State of Kansas.
The corporation, however, remained a State corporation,
though entitled to certain benefits, and subject to certain
duties under the legislation of Congress.
In this state of things, and the legislature of Kansas having passed a law laying certain taxes upon the property
of the company, one Thomson and numerous other persons
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Dec. 1869.]

TIloMtsoN V. PACIFIC RAILROAD
Statement of the case.

District of Kansas, against the Union Pacific Railway Company, Eastern Division, and three persons, whom the bill
named, treasurers, respectively, of Douglass, Wyandotte, And
Jefferson counties, in the State of Kansas. The bill stated
that the comphtinants were stockholders in the railway company; that under an act of the legislature of Kansas certain
taxes had been imposed on the railroad and telegraph property of the company, which the treisurers of the counties
named were proceeding to collect; that the property of the
company was mortgaged to the United States; that the coinpany was bound to perform certain duties, and ultimately
to pay five per cent. of its net earnings to the United States;
that the company would be greatly hindered and embarrassed in the performance of its obligations and duties to
the United States, if the taxes imposed should be collected;
and that, to some extent, taxes of the same description had
been already paid by the company, to the prejudice of the
just rights of the complainants and of the securities of the
United States. Upon this case the complainants prayed an
injunction to restrain the company from paying, and the
other defendants from collecting, the taxes assessed; and a
temporary injunction was allowed by the district judge.
The answer of the company admitted the allegations of
the bill. The answers of the three county treasurers admitted the assessment of the taxes under the laws of Kansas,
but denied that such taxes had been imposed with any view
to impede or embarrass the railway company, and insisted
that the property of the company only bore its due proportion of the taxes levied upon all property in the State of
Kansas, and that no discrimination was made against the
company in the matter of taxation.
To these answers no replication was put in; but an agreed
statement of facts was filed, which recited sundry resolutions
of the Kansas legislature, urging upon Congress legislation
in aid of the railway company; and admitted that the property of the company was liable, under the laws of Kansas,
to be taxed for State, county, and municipal purposes; that
the taxes complained of had been assessed in conformity

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

with the statutes of the State; that the company had executed a first mortgage prior in lien to the debt to the United
States, and that a table of earnings and expenditures for
1867-8, appended to the agreed statement, was correct.
Upon these pleadings and this agreed statement the question arose, whether the property of the railway company described in the bill was subject to the tax which the statutes
of Kansas authorized to be levied on all other property, not
specially exempted, for State, county, and municipal purposes. And upon this question the judges of the Circuit
Court were divided in opinion, and certified it for decision
here.
Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Usher, for the complainant:
The question is of the gravest importance, not so much to
the complainants, in this case, as to the railroad companies
organized and deriving their powers under the .acts of Congress providing for the construction of the Union Pacific
Railroad and its branches, and the States, Territories, and
municipalities through which those roads pass, and that shall
hereaf er be formed or created along their course.
These roads have their eastern termini one hundred and
fifty miles. east of the geographical centre of the United
States, and every part of them will be subject to local laws,
and the capriciousness of those who shall make and execute
those laws, unless, by the law of their being they are exempt from such control.
This property is exempt for two reasons:
1st. A minor one. Because by the sixteenth section of the
charter of the company the State has the right to purchase
the road at the end of fifty years. The section is as follows:
"Said company shall keep a fair record of the whole expense
of constructing said road, and at the end of fifty years the State
or States through which the said road shall pass shall be at liberty
to purchase said road by paying to said company the amount at
which it shall be valued by persons to be mutually chosen by
the State and by said company."

Dec. 1869.]

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

583

Argument against the tax.

The State has, therefore, an interest in the road-a special
property-and by its fundamental law cannot tax it.*
2d. A greater reason. The history of this road is matter of
public knowledge. It is one and a part of a system of roads
constructed under the direction and authority of Congress
for the use and purposes of the United States, in the exercise of its powers to "provide for the common defence and
general welfare of the United States, to regulate commerce
among the several States, to establish post-offices and postroads, to raise and support armies, and to suppress insurrections and invasions."
For many years the necessity Of a Pacific railroad was
pressed upon Congress through conventions and petitions;
but upon the breaking out of war its necessity to the government as a means for the preservation of its authority
over all its territory upon the Pacific coast became so apparent, that provision was made for building the road, at a
time when the expenditures of the government were more
than a million of dollars per day for carrying on the war.
When, two years afterward, it was found that the work had
languished because of the inadequacy of government assistance, additional aid was given by Congress to secure the
speedy construction of the work; and this, though the nation was then daily expending larger sums in carrying on
the war, and though its debt had increased by hundreds of
millions. It is a military, postal, and commercial road, and
came out of the throes of the rebellion. Itwas designed to
promote the unity and indivisibility of our people. It was
to stretch forth the hands of the Great Valley until they
clasped in peace and unity the hands of Oregon and California, to bind and cement in indissoluble bonds a dissolving
Union; to carry the mails "safely" and " speedily" to the
people inhabiting half of the National domain; to transmit
telegraphic despatches to all these people with the rapidity
of thought; to send troops and munitions of war to protect
the defenceless men, women, and children of the frontier,
* Inhabitants v. Railrogd, 4 Metcalf, 664.

THOMSON

V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. C

\t.

Argument against the tax.

against Indian barbarities; to enable the landless to have
homes of their own; to develop and convert to the National
uses the stores of gold and silver, and other 'valuable minerats imbedded in the mountains, and inaccessible but by
these and other roads; to enable the government to suppress
insurrections and repel invasions, should any occur, in all
the country west of the mountains, and that the people might
be brought into easy, cheap, and frequent communication
with each other, whereby they should live together in lasting
harmony and peace. Such was its history and well-known
design; a work which, more than any other ever undertaken
by the government, tends .to consolidate peace, and to maintain the dignity, and reflect the glory of the nation. How
in the face of all this history and all this design, can it be
held that the action of Congress was a purposeless use of the
lands and credit of the United States, for the benefit of divers
corporations beyond the control of Congress ? and that the
United States was to be placed in the relation to them of a
simple contract creditor, confined to such remedies as the
laws of the numerous States and Territories traversed by
the road and its branches affbrd?
Will it be said that because Congress, in devising the
means by which it should execute the powers conferred by
the Constitution, has profited of corporations created in part
by Congress for the purpose, and in part by other authority,
and because the normal condition of these corporations was
such as would make them liable to taxation-the fact that
Congress has created the one and adopted the others to its
use-does not affect the right of the State to tax and subvert
all this property, and so put an end to the scheme devised
by Congress for the use and preservation of the government?
The answer is plain. The Congress of the United States,
in the exercise of its constitutional power, has adapted this
artificial body to its use, has made it its agent, has clothed
it with new and additional powers to enable it to execute
the lawful will of Congress, and the State cannot in any
manner retard, impede. burden, or control the operations of

Dec. 1869.]

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

585

Argument against, the tax.

this agent, the company, in the discharge of its duties and
obligations to the Federal government.
If it was necessary, the wisdom of the laws under consideration could be easily vindicated; but it is enough to say
that Congress intended to and did provide for the execution
of certain of its delegated powers. And this has been done
in the mode and way which Congress deemed most appropriate; one in which the greatest economy could be practised,
and the greatest benefit secured to the public, with the least
expenditure of the public money.
Consider the effect of these Kansas tax laws upon this
property. If sold by virtue of them for non-payment of
taxes, the purchaser is to have a deed in fee simple of the
premises or parcel of land that he purchased, not a deed that
constitutes him a corporation, or that establishes any relation between him and the company, or the United States.
But how is it possible for the State to invest him with a fee
simple title?
And what becomes of the personalty-the "rolling stock,"
as it is called? That is to be seized by the sheriff and
sold; and being personalty, and necessarily in the possession of the sheriff, it shall come to pass that the loconotive and train transporting the mail, troops, and war material of the United States over this road through Kansas,
destined for New Mexico, Colorado, or elsewhere beyond to
protect the inhabitants or suppress an insurrection, shall be
seized by the Kansas sheriff for the non-payment of taxes.
The case of McCulloch v. Maryland* seems to decide this
one. This court, there holding that Congress under the
Constitution has absolute and exclusive power to determine
whether an act of legislation is or is not necessary for carrying into effect one or more of its enumerated powers, proceeds to say that acts passed by it to these ends cannot be
controlled by State law. It says further:
"The power to create is the power to preserve. The power
to tax is the power to destroy, and a power to destroy, wielded
* 4 Wheaton,

816.

TioMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by a different hand, is incompatible with a power to create and
preserve..... The sovereignty of a State extends to everything which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by its
own authority, but it does not extend to thoe means which are
employed by Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on
that body."
And, aga in:
"We find on just theory a total failure of the original right
to tax the means employed by the government of the Union for the
execution of its plans. This right never existed, and the question
whether it has been surrendered cannot arise ..... If the
States may tax one instrument employed by the government in
the execution of its powers, they may tax any and every other
instrument. They may tax the mail, the mint, patent rights,
the papers of the custom-house, and all the means employed
by the government. This was not intended by the American
people."
It was not the intention of Congress to bargain with a
corporation in Kansas for the use of their road and telegraph. They did not mean to take a lease for years and enforce their rights therein by action. On the contrary, it was
an ordinary act of legislation to secure a political end of
government. Congress intended to create an agent and to
compel its active employment by means of law and powers
reserved in transporting mails, troops, munitions of war, and
necessary information.
A brief was also submitted against the right of the States
to tax, by Mr. J. I. Storr, of counsel for the Central Paificc
Railroad of California, and of the Western Pacific -Railroad
Company.
Mr.Banks, for the defendants; a brief of Mr. Thatcher being
fled.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this 'ease the court has no concern with any of the connected roads which form, or are destined to form, links in

Dec. 1869.]

ThoMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

587

Opinion of the court.

the great chain of transcontinental railway. We have only
to consider the liabilities and rights of the Union Pacific
Railroad Compatny in respect to taxation under State legislation. Argument has been heard on behalf of some of the
connected corporations, only because of their interest in the
question, by reason of their similar situation and circumstances in reference to like legislation.
The counsel for the complainants have justly said that the
question certified here for decision is one of very grave importance.
It was suggested, rather than argued, by one of them, that
the property of the State is exempt by the State constitution
from taxation ; and that the State, having reserved to itself
in the charter the right to purchase the road at the end of
fifty years at a valuation then to be made, upon two years'
notice to the company, has, therefore, a property in the road
which cannot be taxed. But it is too plain for argument
that the interest thus reserved is too remote and too contingent to be regarded as within the meaning of the exemption.
The main argument for the complainants, however, is that
the road, being constructed under the direction and authority of Congress, for the uses and purposes of the United
States, and being a part of a system of roads thus constructed,
is therefore exempt from taxation under State authority. It
is to be observed that this exemption is not claimed under
any act of Congress. It is not asserted that any act declaring
such exemption has ever received the sanction of the National
legislature. But it is earnestly insisted that the right of exemption arises from the relations of the road to the General
Government. It is urged that the aids granted by Congress
to the road were granted in the exercise of its constitutional
powers to regulate commerce, to establish post-offices and
post-roads, to raise and sup)port armies, and to suppress insurrection and invasion ; and that by the legislation which
supplied aid, required security, imposed duties, and finally
exacted, upon a certain contingency, a percentage of income,
the road was adopted as an instrument of the government,
and as such was not subject to taxation by the State.

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case of McCtdloch v. Maryland is much relied on in
support of this position. But we apprehend that the reasoning of the court in that case will hardly warrant the conclusion which counsel deduce from it in this. In that case the
main questions were, Whether the incorporation of the Bank
of the United States, with power to establish branches, was
an act of legislation within the constitutional powers of Congress, and, whether the bank and its branches, as actually
established, were exempt from taxation by State legislation.
Both questions were resolved in the aflirmative. In deciding
the first the court did not hold, as counsel suppose, that
Congress, under the Constitution, haos absolute and exclusive power to determine whether an act of legislation is or
is not necessary and proper as a means for carrying into
effect one or more of its enumerated powers. It defined the
words " necessary and proper" as equivalent in meaning
to the words " appropriate, plainly adapted, not prohibited,
but consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution,"
and held that the incorporation of a bank with branches
was a necessary and proper means to the effectual exercise
of granted power within the definition thus given. It held
further that Congress was, within this limit, the exclusive
judge as to the means best adapted to the end proposed, and
that its choice of any means of the defined character was restricted only by its own discretion. But the question whether the par'ticular means adopted was within the general
grant of incidental powers was determined by the court. A
great part of the argument was directed to the proposition
that the incorporation of a bank was an exercise of incidental
power within the true meaning of the terms " necessary and
proper," as explained by the court-an argument which
would have been quite superfluous if that question was to
be determined finally by the legislative and not by the judicial department of the government.
We do not doubt, however, that upon the principles settled by that ju.dgment, Congress may, in the exercise of

powers incidental to the express powers mentioned by counsel, make or authorize contracts with individuals or corpora-

Dec. 1869.]

THoMsoN V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the court.

tions for services to the government; may grant aids, by
money or land, in preparation for, and in the performance
of, such services; may make any stipulation and conditions
in relation to such aids not contrary to the Constitution; and
.may exempt, in its discretion, the agencies employed in such
services from any State taxation which will really prevent
or impede the performance of them.
But can the right of this road to exemption from such
taxation be maintained in the absence of any legislation by
Congress to that effect?
It is unquestionably true that the court, in determining
the second general question, already stated, did hold that
the Bank of the United States, with its branches, was exempt
from taxation by the State of Maryland, although no express
exemption was found in the charter. But it must be remembered that the Bank of the United States was a corporation
created by the United States; and, as an agent in the execution of the constitutional powers of the government, was endowed by the act of creation with all its faculties, powers,
and functions. It did not owe its existence, or any of its
qualities, to State legislation. And its exemption from taxation was put upon this ground. Nor was the exemption
itself without important limitations. It was declared not to
extend to the real property of the bank within the State;
nor to interests held by citizens of the State in the institution.
In like manner other means and operations of the government have been held to be exempt from State taxation: as
bonds issued for money borrowed;* certificates of indebtedness issued for money or supplies ;t bills of credit issued
for circulation.t There are other instances in which exemption, to the extent it is established in lcCalloeh v. Maryland,
might have been held to arise from the simple creation and
organization of corporations under acts of Congress, as in
the case of the National banking associations; but in which
Weston v. City of Charleston, 2 Peters, 467.
t The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wallace, 24.
1 Bank v. Supervisors, lb. 28.

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Congress thought fit to prescribe the extent to which State
taxation may be applied.* In all these cases, as in the case
of the Bank of the United States, exemption from liability to
taxation was maintained upon the same ground. The State
tax held to be repugnant to the Constitution was imposed
directly upon an operation or an instrument of the government. That such taxes cannot be imposed on the operations
of the government, is a proposition which needs no argument to support it. And the same reasoning will apply to
instruments of the government, created by itself for-public
and constitutional ends. But we are not aware of any case
in which the real estate, or other property of a corporation
not organized under an act of Congress, has been held to be
exempt, in the absence of express legislation to that effect,
to just contribution, in common with other property, to the
general expenditure for the common benefit, because of the
employment of the corporation in the service of the government.
It is true that some of the reasoning in the case of McCalloch v. Maryland seems to favor the broader doctrine. But
the decision itself is limited to the case'of the bank, as a corporation created by a law of the United States, and responsible, in the use of its franchises, to the government of the
United States.
And even in respect to corporations organized under the
legislation of Congress, we have already held, at this term,
that the implied limitation upon State taxation, derived from
the express permission to tax shares in the National banking
associations, is to be so construed as not to embarrass the
imposition or collection of State taxes to the extent of the
permission fairly and liberally interpreted.t
We do not think ourselves warranted, therefore, in extending the exemption established by the case of McCulloch
v. Maryland beyond its terms. We cannot apply it to the
* Van Allen v. The Assessors, 8 Id. 573; Bradley v. The People, 4 Id.

459; People v. Commissioners, lb. 244.
- National Bank v. Commonwealth, supra, 353; Lionberger v. Rowse,
snpra, 468.

Dec. 1869.]

THOMSON V. PACIFIC RAILROAD.

591

Opinion of the court.

case of a corporation deriving its existence from State law,
exercising its franchise under State law, and holding its
property within State jurisdiction and under State protection.
We do not doubt the propriety or the necessity, under the
Constitution, of maintaining the supremacy of the General
Government within its constitutional sphere. We fully recognize the soundness of the doctrine, that no State has a
" right to tax the means employed by the government of the
Union for the execution of its powers." But we think there
is a clear distinction between the means employed by the
government and the property'of agents employed by the
government. Taxation of the agency is taxation of the
means; taxation of the property of the agent is not always,
or generally, taxation of the means.
No one questions that the power to tax all property, business, and persons, within their respective limits, is original
in the States and has never been surrendered. It cannot be
so used, indeed, as to defeat or hinder the operations of the
National government; but it will be safe to conclude, in
general, in reference to persons and State corporations employed in government service, that when Congress has not
interposed to protect their property from State taxation,
such taxation is not obnoxious to that objection.*
IWe perceive no limits to the principle of exemption which
the complainants seek to establish. It would remove from
the reach of State taxation all the property of every ngent
of the government. Every corporation engaged in the traisportation of mails, or of government property of any description, by land or water, or in supplying materials for
the use of the government, or in performing any service
of whatever kind, might claim the benefit of the exemption.
The amount of property now held by such corporations, and
having relations more or less direct to the National government and its service, is very great. And this amount is
continually increasing; so that it may admit of question
Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wallace, 77; National Bank v. Commonwealth, supra, 858. '

MERRYMAN v. BOURNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

whether the whole income of the property which will remain liable to State taxation, if the principle contended for
is admitted and applied in its fullest extent, may not ultimately be found inadequate to the support of the State
govern ments.
The nature of the claims to exemption which would be
set up, is well illustrated by that which is advanced in behalf
of the complainants in the case before us. The very ground
of claim is in the bounties of the General Government. The
allegation is, that the government has advanced large sums
to aid in construction of the road; has contented itself with
the security of a second mortgage; has made large grants
of land upon no condition of benefit to itself, except that
the company will perform certain services for full compensation, independently of those grants; and will admit the
government to a very limited and wholly contingent interest
in remote net income. And because of these advances and
these grants, and this fully compensated employment, it is
claimed that this State corporation, owing its being to State
law, and indebted for these benefits to the consent and active
interposition of the State legislature, has a constitutional
right to hol its property exempt from State taxation; and
this without any legislation on the part of Congress which
indicates that such exemption is deemed essential to the full
performance of its obligations to the government.
We are unable to find in the Constitution any warrant for
the exemption from State taxation claimed in behalf of the
complainants; and must, therefore, answer the question certified to us
IN

MERRYMAN V.

BOURNE

THE AFFIRMATIVE.

ET AL.

1. In California a judgment in ejectment has the same conclusiveness as a
judgment in any common law action, and in determining its effect the
same principles are applied which control the result of the like inquiry in
other cases. A defeated plaintiff may bring a new action upon an after-

acquired title with the same effect as a stranger, in whom such title

