Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.
Statement of the case.

the legislative limit. And the case before us, though not
excluded from the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of
Appeals by the Constitution, seems to be excluded by this
act. The only question, then, is whether this act of the
legislature is in conflict with the constitution of the State.
And we perceive no conflict. The legislature, then, having
thought fit to make the judgment of the District Court in
this case final and without appeal, that court is, for this case,
the highest court in which the decision could be made; and
the writ of error is, therefore, warranted by the act of Congress, and regular. Motion to dismiss must be
DENIED.

UNITED STATES

V. ADAMS.

1. Certiorari,being a writ properly used to bring up to the Court of Error,
on an allegation of diminution, outbranches of the record, or other documents and writings in the court below which have not been previously

certified or sent, is not a proper thing to be asked for where it is desired
to have the Court of Claims supply certain supposed defects in its conclusions deducible from the evidence before it.
2. The proper method of obtaining such a finding is an order of this court,
on motion duly made, directed to the Court of Claims, requiring it to
make return as to the existence or non-existence of such facts. But this

court cannot give the Court of Claims any directions as to what finding
it shall make, or how it shall proceed to make up its finding on the
points sought to have certified.

ON motion for certiorari.

In this suit, which was an appeal from the Court of Claims,
that court, in accordance with the rules adopted by this court
to regulate appeals from the latter court, had sent up a finding of the facts and their conclusions of law on the said facts,
on which they founded their decree.
Mr. Talbot, on behalf of the United States, now applied for a
certiorarito require the said court to certify as to the existence or proof of certain other facts which were not contained in their original finding and return.

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The suit had been brought in the Court of Claims by
the United States to recover certain deductions made fi'om
vouchers issued to them by quartermasters at St. Louis,
which deductions had been made in 1861-2, by direction of
a commission, composed of the Hon. David Davis, Joseph
Holt, and Hugh Campbell, after an examination of the claims
for which the vouchers were issued. . Since the decision in
this court of the case of United States v. Adams,* it had become material for the government, in cases of this sort, to
show the fact that the claimants voluntarily presented their
claims to the said commission. This fact, though proof of it
was alleged to have been offered in the court below, was not
stated in the finding of facts sent to this court, probably not
having been deemed material at the time the finding was
made. What the solicitor for the United States now particularly desired to be certified was:
First. Whether or not, before the seizure of the books
and papers of the claimants, as found by the said court, the
claims of the claimants had been submitted or presented to
th said commission by the said claimants.
Second. Whether or not the said claims were so submitted
or presented after such seizure.
Third. Whether or not the said claimants appeared before
the said commission with witnesses to support their said
claims; and, if they did so appear, whether or not it was
before or after the seizure of their books and papers by the
provost guard of St. Louis.
And he further asked that the Court of Claims might be
directed, in making the findings of facts herein called for, to
use and regard the deposition of E. W. Fox, one of the
claimants, as an admission on the part of the appellees.
Mr. Ilug!ies opposed the motion.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Whilst we are of opinion that the appellants are entitled
* 7 Wallace, 463; supra, 555.

Dec. 1869.1

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

to have the finding made complete on the points indicated
by the interrogatories, either affirmatively or negatively, we
do not regard a certiorarias the proper mode of effecting the
object. This writ is properly used to bring up to the court
of error, on an allegation of diminution, outbranches of the
record, or other documents and writings in the court below
which have not been previously certified or sent. The facts
asked for in this case are not documents or writings, but conclusions to be deduced from the evidence before the Court
of Claims. The proper method of obtaining a finding in
reference to these alleged facts is an order of this court, to
be directed to the court below, on motion duly made, requiring that court to make return as to the existence or nonexistence of such facts. Such an order it will be proper to
make, for the same reason that renders a certiorariproper on
an allegation of diminution of the record. But we cannot
give the Court of Claims any directions as to what finding
it shall make, or how it shall proceed to make up its finding
on the points in question. If that court should refuse, with
the proper evidence before it, to find a material fact desired
by either of the parties, the proper remedy would be to make
a request that such finding be made, and to except in case
of refusal. Perhaps an additional rule on the subject would
make the rights of parties and the duty of the court less
ambiguous than they now are. The following order will be
made in the case:
ORDERED: That the record in this case be remanded to
the Court of Claims, and that said court be instructed to
find and certify to this court, as matters of fact, in addition
to the facts found and certified in said recordFirst. Whether or not, before the seizure of the books
and papers of the claimants, as found by the said court, the
claims of the claimants had been submitted or presented by
them to the commission, consisting of Hon. David Davis,
Joseph Holt, and Hugh Campbell, referred to in the record.
Second. Whether or not the said claims were so submitted or presented after such seizure.
Third. Whether or not the said claimants appeared before

664

HERNDON V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the said commission with witnesses to support their said
claims; and, if they did so appear, whether or not it was
before or after the seizure of their books and papers by the
provost guard of' St. Louis.
And it is further ordered that the said record, with the
said additional findings of fact, be returned to this court
with
ALL CONVENIENT SPEED.

HERNDON V. HOWARD.
Where an appellant in this court becomes bankrupt after his appeal taken,
his assignee in bankruptcy upon the production of the deed of assignment of the register in bankruptcy, duly certified by the clerk of the
proper court, may, on motion, be substituted as appellant in the case.

IN this case Herndon had taken an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas; and after doing
so had become bankrupt. His assignee in bankruptcy-one
Masterson-now moved to be admitted as a party appellant
in the cause with the original appellant, Herndon.
His motion was supported by the production of the deed
of assignment of the register in bankruptcy of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas,
in the matter of his bankruptcy to Masterson, duly attested
by the clerk of the court. The motion was founded upon
the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Law, which provides
that the assignee in bankruptcy may prosecute and defend
in his own name all suits at law and in equity pending at the
time of the adjudication of bankruptcy, in which the bankrupt is a party, in the same manner and with the like effect
as they might have been prosecuted or defended by the bankrupt, and which makes a copy of the register's assignment,
duly certified by the clerk of the proper court, conclusive
evidence of the right of the assignee to sue.

