NOONAN

V. BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

by original process, and the defendant had waived all exception to jurisdiction, and pleaded to the merits. Under the
11th section the exception to jurisdiction is the privilege of
the defendant, and may be waived; for the suit is still between
citizens of different States, and the jurisdiction still appears
in the record. The first act of the defendant, indeed, under
the 12th section, is something more than consent, something
more than a waiver of objection to jurisdiction, it is a prayer
for the privilege of resorting to Federal jurisdiction, and he
cannot be permitted afterwards to question it.*
We cannot doubt, therefore, that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the case under consideration. We are all of
opinion that the court erred in remanding the cause to the
jurisdiction of the State court, and the order to that effect
REVERSED.
must be

KONAN

V. BRADLEY.

1. An administrator appointed in one State cannot, by virtue of such appointment, maintain an action in another State, in the absence of a
statute of the latter State giving effect to that appointment, to enforce
an obligation due his intestate. If he desires to prosecute a suit in
another State he must first obtain a grant of administration therein in
accordance with its laws.
2. In an action by a plaintiff as an administrator, the objection that, as to the
causes of action stated in the declaration, he is not, and never has been,
administrator of the effects of the deceased, may be taken by a special
plea in bar.
3. It would appear that the objection may also be taken by a plea in abatc
ment.
4. One plea in bar is not waived by the existence of another plea in bar,
though the two may be inconsistent in their averments with each other.
The remedy of the plaintiff in such case is not by demurrer, but by
motion to strike out one of the pleas, or to compel the defendant to elect
by which he will abide.
5. In an action by a plaintiff as administrator, a plea to the merits admits
the representative character of the plaintiff to the extent stated in the
declaration, and if that statement is consistent with the grant of letters
Sayles v. Northwestern Insurance Co., 2 Curtis, 212.

Dec 1869.]

NOONAN

V. BRADLEY.

Statement of the case.
within the State, it also admits his right to sue in that capacity;-but
such a plea admits nothing more than the title stated in the declaration.
6. The substitution in this court of an administrator as a party in place of
his intestate on the record, in a case pending on appeal, only authorizes
the prosecution of that case in his name; it confers no right to prosecute
any other suit in his name.
7. In an action in one State by an administratot appointed in another State,
on a bond given to the intestate, a plea that the bond was bona notabilia
on the death of the decedent, in the State other than the one which
appointed the administrator suing as plaintiff, and that an administrator of the effects of the decedent in that State has been appointed
and qualified, is a good answer to the action. It is an averment of facts
which in law excludes all right to, and control over, the property in
that State by the foreign administrator.
8. Where a bond for the purchase-money of certain land was delivered upon
an agreement indorsed upon the bond by the obligee that he would not
enforce the bond in case his title to the land should fail: Held, that the
agreement was not limited in its operation to the time when the bond
matured or the penalty became forfeited, but was a perpetual covenant
not to enforce the bond in case the designated event at any time happened.
9. Where doubt exists as to the construction of an instrument prepared by
one party, upon the faith of which the other party has incurred obligations or parted with his property, that construction should be adopted
which will be favorable to the latter party ; and where an instrument
is susceptible of two constructions-the one working injustice and the
other consistent with the right of the case-that one should be favored
which upholds the right.
10. The agreement above-mentioned indorsed on the bond constitutes a part
of the condition of the bond, qualifying its provisions for the payment
of the instalments of the principal and interest, and declaring, in effect,
that the payments shall not be required and the obligation of the bond
shall cease in case the event designated happens.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin; the case being thus:
In October, 1855, Noonan, the defendant in the court below, purchased of one Lee, and received from him a warranty deed of certain real property situated in the State
of Wisconsin, and for the purchase-money gave his bond
in the penal sum of eight thousand dollars, conditioned to
pay four thousand dollars in four equal annual instalments,
with interest, secured by a mortgage on the property. At
that time the premises were in the possession of one Orton,

NO0NAN V. BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

holding them adversely to Lee, and in consequence of this
fact Noonan required from Lee, as a condition to the delivery of the bond, an agreement against its enforcement in
case his title to the land should fail (except as against the
United States for the portion of the river (Milwaukee) beyond a certain designated line), and to deduct from the sum
stipulated the amount of any incumbrances which might
be found on the property. Such an agreement was accordingly given, and was indorsed on the bond. It was as
follows:
I agree, if ily title fails to the property for the consideration
of which this bond is given, except as against the United States,
fbr the portion of the river beyond the meandered line, that I
will not enforce this bond; and if any incumbrances shall be
found, that the amount of the same shall be deducted from the
moneys to fall due on this bond.
J. B. LEE.
A clause in the mortgage provided, that upon default of
Noonan to pay any of the instalments of the principal, or
the interest, or the taxes on the property, as they became
due, the entire principal of the bond with interest should,
at the option of Lee, be immediately payable.
In March, 1859, default having been made in the payment
of the several instalments, Lee elected to claim the entire
amount as due, and brought suit against Noonan and others
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Wisconsin, then exercising Circuit Court powers, to foreclose the mortgage, praying in his bill for a sale of the mortgaged premises, the payment of the debt secured, and for
general relief. Noonan answered the bill, setting up that
Lee's title had failed before the commencement of the suit;
but the court, by its decree, made in January, 1860, found
that there was due on the bond a sum exceeding five thousand dollars,'and directed a sale of the mortgaged premises,
and the application of the proceeds to the payment of the
amount found due, and that if the proceeds were insufficient
the marshal should report the deficiency, and Noonan should

Dec. 1869.]

e OONAN V.

BRADLEY.

Statement of the case.

pay it with interest, and in default of such payment the cornplainant should have execution therefor.
From this decree Noonan appealed to this court, and,
pending the appeal, for the purpose of trying his title to the
laud purchased, brought ejectment in one of the Circuit
Courts of the State of Wisconsin against Orton, the party
in possession. He then gave notice to Lee of the action,
and required him to undertake its management. Lee at
i ce retained counsel, who, for him, assumed the conduct
of the action.
Pending the appeal in this court, and the action of ejectment in the State court, Lee died domiciled in New York,
and Bradley, the plaintiff in this case, was duly appointed
by the proper tribunal in that State administrator of his
estate. On his application, Bradley was then substituted as
representative of his intestate on the record in the case on
appeal in this court.
At the December Term, 1862, this court gave its decision
in the case, adjudging that the District Court erred in ordering the defendant Noonan to pay any deficiency which might
remain of the principal and interest of the mortgage debt
after applying the proceeds of the sale, and that complainant
have execution therefor. To this extent the decree was reversed; in other particulars it was affirmed.
In the opinion delivered on rendering the decision the
court observed, that upon the facts disclosed by the record
it found no defect in the title of Lee, and that Noonan's title
had not failed. In this language reference was of course
had to the title as it appeared upon the evidence presented
at the hearing in the District Court in January, 1860.*
Afterwards, in January, 1863, final j udgment was rendered
in the action of ejectment in the State court in favor of Orton, the party in possession, and against Noonan, upon the
ground that the latter was not seized in fee of the premises,
and acquired no title by his purchase from Lee, and that
Orton was thus seized.
* Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 500.

NooNAN

v.

BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

When Lee died there were effects of value belonging to
him in Wisconsin, and in February, 1865, one T. L. Ogden
was duly appointed administrator of those effects by a tribunal having jurisdiction of the matter in that State; and he
qualified and entered upon the discharge of his duties as
administrator, and when this action was commenced had in
his possession the bond given by Noonan to Lee on the purchase of the premises.
In September, 1866, Bradley, as administrator of the estat
of Lee, under the appointment in the State of New York,
brought the present action upon this bond of Noonan. The
declaration set forth his title as administrator under this
appointment, and contained four counts.
1. The first count was on the penalty of the bond simply.
2. The second was on the bond, setting out the condition
written in the bond, and averring breach of the condition.
3. The third was on the bond, setting out the condition,
averring a breach of the condition; and that Lee commenced
suit to foreclose the mortgage given to secure the bond; the
decree of the District Court, the appeal by Noonan; and
that the Supreme Court, pending the appeal, substituted
Bradley as administrator, affirmed a part of the decree; that
Bradley filed the mandate in the court below; that a sale
was had and confirmed, and $53.56 was applied "to the sums
so due, by the terms of the said condition of said bond, and
by the terms of said decree as aforesaid." "Yet the said
defendant hath not paid said several sums mentioned in said
bond," &c.
4. The fourth count was on the bond, giving a copy of the
whole bond, and the indorsement upon it, and setting out the
proceedings in the foreclosure suit more fully, and coneluding: "Yet the said defendant hath not paid said several
sums mentioned in said bond, and the condition thereof, nor
either of them, nor any part thereof," &c.
Every count of the declaration was upon the bond itself,
not upon the decree in the foreclosure suit, and the breach alleged
as furnishing the cause of action was the non-payment of the
money called for by the bond.

Dec. 1869.]

NO0NAN

v.

BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

To the declaration the defendant interposed three pleas:
1st. That as to the supposed causes of action mentioned
therein, the plaintiff was not and never had been administrator of the effects of the deceased.
2d. That there were effects of value of the decedent at the
time of his death in the State of Wisconsin, among which
was the bond in suit; that T. L. Ogden was duly appointed
by a tribunal in that State administrator of those effects,
and had qualified and entered upon, and was engaged in the
discharge of' his duties as such officer at the time the action
was commenced; and 'that by reason of this appointment
and qualification, the effects of the decedent, in Wisconsin,
were, under the laws of that State, vested in him, with all
rights of action in relation thereto, and that as a consequence
the letters issued to the plaintiff in the State of N~ew York,
with reference to the causes of action stated in the declaration, were void and of no effect.
3d. That the title of Lee to the premises sold had failed,
the plea setting up the agreement indorsed on the bond, and
the proceedings and judgment in the ejectment suit, to bring
the case within the agreement.
To the pleas the plaintiff demurred; the Circuit Court
sustained the demurrer, and entered final judgment thereon
in favor of the plaintiff for the penalty of the bond; and the
defendant brought the case to this court on writ of error.
Messrs. M. -H. Carpenter and I P. Walker, for the plaintiffs
in error; Mr. J. S. Brown, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The inquiry here is: What is the legal effect of the facts
presented by the pleas of the defendant?
The first plea puts in issue the representative character of
the plaintiff in the State of Wisconsin. It denies that, as
to the causes of action stated in the declaration, he is or
ever has been administrator of the effects of the deceased,
and thus raises the question whether an administrator ap-

NOONAN

v.

BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pointed in one State can, by virtue of such appoictment,
maintain an action in another State to enforce an obligation
due his intestate. And upon this question the law is well
settled. All the cases on the subject are in one way. In
the absence of any statute giving effect to the foreign appointment, all the authorities deny any efficacy to the appointment outside of the territorial jurisdiction of the State
within which it was granted. All hold that in the absence
of such a statute no suit can be maintained by an administrator in his official capacity, except within the limits of the
State from which he derives his authority. If he desires to
prosecute a suit in another State he must first obtain a grant
of administration therein in accordance with its laws.
So far has this doctrine been extended that in Fenwick v.
Sears's Administrators,* where the plaintiff had obtained letters of administration in Maryland, before the separation of
the District of Columbia from the original States, it was
held by this court that he could not, after the separation,
maintain an action in that part of the district ceded by Maryland by virtue of these letters, but that he must take out new
letters within the district.
The same doctrine is as applicable to the case of executors as to that of administrators; the right to sue in both
instances depending upon the letters.t
Whether the objection to the character of the plaintiff as
administrator or executor should be taken by a plea in abatement or a special plea in bar, would appear to have been, at
one time, a matter upon which there was some diversity of
opinion. In some of the cases the language used would indicate that a plea in abatement was the only appropriate form
in which the objection could be presented, whilst in other
cases the oljection taken by a special plea in bar has been
sustained. It was sustained by this court, when taken by a
special plea in bar, in Fenwick v. Sears's Administrators, and in
Dixon's Executors v. Ramsey's Executors, already cited. In
the latter case a foreign executor brought an action in the
*

1 Cranch, 259.

t Dixon's Executors v. Ramsay's Executors, 3 Cranch, 319.

Dec. 1869.]

D 9OONAN V.

BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

District of Columbia. The defendant pleaded that he had
not obtained letters in the District or in the United States#
and, on demurrer, the plea was sustained.
There is no principle in pleading which should prevent
the objection from being taken in this way. It is only in
virtue of his representative character that the plaintiff is entitled to the matters in controversy, and a plea which denies
to him that character is, in its nature, a plea in bar of the
action.
In Langdon and others v. Potter,* the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts held directly that the objection taken in that
case, that no letters of administration had been granted to
the plaintiff except under the authority of another State, was
pleadable in bar, and in referring to the diversity in the cases
and opinions, as to the form of the plea by which the objection should be presented, observed that they might perhaps
be "reconciled by considering the plea,'that the plaintiff is
not administrator, as one of those which may be pleaded in
bar or in abatement." "There are many such cases," said
the court, " where the matter of the plea goes to preclude
the plaintiff fbrever from maintaining the action, and it may
therefore be pleaded in bar; yet, as in point of form it is in
disability of the plaintiff, it may also be pleaded to the person." These observations are just, and explain much of the
apparent conflict in the decisions of different courts, or of
the same court at different times.
The language used by this court in Childress v. Emoryt
and Kane v. Paul,t cited by counsel, was not intended to
deny that the 'objection to the authority of the plaintiff as
administrator or executor could be taken by a plea in bar,
but was only intended to indicate that the objection must be
specially pleaded, and could not be urged on demurrer to
the declaration for alleged insufficient exhibition of letters
testamentary, when profert of the letters was made, or under
a plea to the merits.
In the first case the court observed that if the defendant
" 11 Massachusetts, 313.

VOL. IX.

t 8 Wheaton, 642.

26

$ 14 Peters, 33.

NO0NAN V.

0

BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

desired to object to the letters as insufficient, he should have
craved oyer of them, and had them brought before the court,
that unless oyer was craved and granted, the letters could
not be judicially examined, and then added that if the plaintiffs were not executors, that objection should have been
taken by way of abatement, and did not arise upon a demurrer in bar. The point decided was that the objection
could not be taken, when profert of letters was made, without oyer of them, and did not arise in such case upon demurrer. There was no question as to the form of the plea
to be used, if the objection were presented in that way; and
it is clear that no determination as to the form was intended.
In the second case the plea was non-assumpsit, which admitted plaintiff's right to sue. It was objected that the letters testamentary appeared on their face to have been granted
in violation of the law of Maryland, but the court observed
that the plea was the general issue, and that a judicial examination into their validity could only be gone into upon a
plea in abatement, meaning evidently that such examination
could not be had unless the objection were taken by special
plea. There was no intention on the part of the court to
determine as to the form of the special plea in such cases.
The objection to the character of the plaintiff as administrator in this case is not waived by the third plea, which goes
to the merits, as contended by counsel. One plea in bar is
not waived by the existence of another plea in bar, though
the two may be inconsistent in their averments with each
other. The remedy of the plaintiff in such case is not by
demurrer, but by motion to strike out one of the pleas, or
to compel the defendant to elect by which he will abide.
But here there is no inconsistency in thQ pleas; the one denying any right in the plaintiff, in his capacity as administrator, to the subject of controversy, and the other the release of the defendant from liability on the bond in suit
by failure of its consideration. The averments of both may
be true.
The proposition of law which the counsel invokes, that a
plea to the merits admits the representative character of the

Dec. 1869.]

NOONAN

V. BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

plaintiff, and his right to sue in that capacity, is only applicable where no other plea than one of that kind is interposed;
it does not apply where a special plea traverses that character. A plea denying that an intestate entered into the obligation upon which the action is brought, or averring that
he was released therefrom, standing alone, is undoubtedly
an admission of the representative character of the plaintiff
to the extent stated in the declaration, and if that statement
is consistent with the grant of letters within the State, is also
an admission of his right to sue in that capacity. The execution or the release of the obligation is in such case the only
matter in issue, and of course is the only matter upon which
evidence need be called or argument had. But, in the case
at bar, had there been no other plea than the third plea, which
goes to the merits, the character of the plaintiff, as administrator in Wisconsin, would not have been admitted, for the
reason that the declaration states that the grant of administration to him was by letters issued in the State of New York,
and the plea to the merits only admits the title as stated in
the declaration.
This effect of a plea to the merits was decided as long ago
as the time of Lord Holt, in the case of Adams v. The Terienants of Savaqe.* In that case the plaintiff brought a 8eire
facias against the defendants, reciting a judgment recovered
by his intestate against Savage, and that administration was
committed to him by the Archdeacon of Dorset, whose jurisdiction did not extend to the place where the judgment was
rendered. The tertenants traversed the seizin of Savage,
and the finding being against them, motion in arrest of judgment was made, on the ground that the administration committed to the plaintiff was void. It was urged for the judgment, that though the plaintiff had shown a bad title, the
defendants 'iot traversing it, or taking any advantage of the
invalidity of the administration, but pleading to the merits,
admitted that the plaintiff was entitled to sue, and should
not be permitted, when the right was tried against them, to
6 Modern, 134.

NONAN V. BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the c(,urt.

controvert what they had declined to insist upon; but Chief
Justice Holt said: "If the plaintiff had not set forth what
kind of administration he claimed by, but only generally alleged himself administrator of the goods and chattels of the
intestate, and the defendant had not put you upon showing it
by craving oyer of the letters of administration, as he might
have done, but pleaded over; that had been an admission
of the plaintiff's having a right of suing as administrator as
he had alleged." And after stating that the plaintiff made
title to himself by an administration which was invalid, the
Chief Justice continued: "And when you yourself affirm
this to be your title, how can we intend you have another;
for of your own showing this is your title, which is manifestly bad ? And there is a iast difference where a title does
not appear fully for the plaintiff, and the party will not controvert with him about that, for then it may be well presumed
if the party were not well satisfied of plaintiff's title he would
have insisted on it in due time, and where the plaintiff himself shows he has no title, for then the court has no room for
intendment." The authority of this case has not, so far as
we are aware, ever been doubted, and were there no other
ground against the position of the plaintiff, it would be decisive.
The substitution in this court of the plaintiff as administrator, in place of the intestate, in Noonan v. Lee, does not
affect the present case, or give the plaintiff any greater right
of action than if no such substitution had ever been made.
It only authorized the further prosecution of that suit in his
name, and gave no right, and could give no right, to prosecute any other suit in his name.
Nor is the position of the plaintiff aided by the statute of
Wisconsin, which enables foreign executors and administrators to sue in certain cases, in the courts of that State.
That statute only applies where no executor or administrator
of the estate of the decedent has been appointed in the State,
and then only in the counties where the foreign executor or
administrator has filed in the Probate Court an authenticated
copy of his appointment.

Dec. 1869.]

NONAN

v.

BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

The second plea, like the first, puts in issue the representative character of the plaintiff in Wisconsin; not by direct
denial, as in the first plea, but by averring that there were
effects of the decedent in that State at the time of his death,
among which was the bond in suit; that an administrator
of those effects had been duly appointed and qualified, and
had entered upon, and was engaged in, the discharge of his
duties as such officer at the time the action was commenced,
and that by reason of this appointment and qualification the
effects of the decedent, under the laws of Wisconsin, were
vested in him, with all rights of action in relation thereto,
and that as a consequence the letters issued to the plaintiff
in the State of New York, with reference to the eauses of
action stated in the declaration, are void and of no effect.
This plea is a good plea in bar to the action. The bond
in suit was bona notabilia in Wisconsin, and a plea that the
subject of action constituting such bona notabilia was, on
the death of the decedent, in another jurisdiction than the
one which appointed the administrator suing as plaintiff, has
always been a good answer to the action. It is an averment
of facts which in law excludes all right to, and control over,
the property in that State by the foreign administrator.*
The third plea sets up a defence to the action on the
merits-namely, that the title to the premises, for the consideration of which the bond in suit was given, has failed;
and that as a consequence, under the agreement of the intestate, the right to enforce the bond has ceased.
This plea alleges that the bond in suit was given only in
consideration of the conveyance of a warranty deed by the
intestate, and an agreement that in case his title failed he
would not enforce the bond, and that by judicial proceedings, of which the intestate had notice and took charge, it
was determined that the intestate was not seized at the time
he executed the deed in fee of the premises, but that Orton,
the party then in the possession, was thus seized of them.
* See 1 Saunders, 274, note 3; Stokes v. Bate, 5 Barnewall & Cresswell,

491.

NoONAN

V. BRADLEY.

(Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The effect of this plea depends upon the construction
which is given to the agreement of the intestate not to enforce the bond in case his title failed. The plaintiff contends
that this agreement ceased to have any operation after the
maturity of the bond or the forfeiture of the penalty ; and
that if subsequently the title failed, that fact could not be
pleaded with the agreement in bar to an action on the bond,
either by way of release or estoppel.
The argument presented in support of this construction
is founded mainly upon the improbability that the parties
could have contemplated a postponement of payment beyond
the period stipulated in the boid. They could not, says the
counsel, have intended to set aside the obligation to pay at
those times; and it would have been a violation of the spirit
of the agreement for the vendee to have refused the payments as they became due, if the title had not then failed.
Undoubtedly the parties contemplated that the payments
would be made as they matured, but they also contemplated
that payments should cease whenever the title of the grantor
failed. They may have supposed that tlhe validity of the title
would be determined to their satisfaction before the maturity
of any of the instalnents stipulated, but they have inserted
no provision in the agreement which limits its operation to
that or to any other period. It is a perpetual covenant not
to enforce the bond upon the happening of a certain event.
It matters not that the obligee or his representative might
have compelled its payment before the happening of that
event. What would have been the rights of the obligor in
that case; whether he would have had any remedy to recover back the amount paid, or would have been compelled
to look to the covenant of warranty in his deed, are questions not now before us for determination. It is sufficient
for our present consideration that the bond has not as yet
been enforced, and the title to the property, which the intestate sold and undertook to convey to the defendant, has
failed. It would be against manifest justice if, under these
circumstances, the representative of the vendor, notwithstanding the vendor had no title to convey, could recover

Dec. 1869.]

DOONAN

V. BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

of the defendant as though the vendor had transferred to
him a good and perfect one.
If there were any doubt as to the construction which
should be given to the agreement of the intestate, that construction should be adopted which would be more to the
advantage of the defendant, upon the general ground that
a party, who takes an agreement prepared by another, and
upon its faith incurs obligations or parts with his property,
should have a construction given to the instrument favorable
to him; and on the further ground that when an instrument
is susceptible of two constructions-the one working injustice and the other consistent with the right of the case-that
one should be favored which standeth with the right.*
This agreement not to enforce the bond, which is conditional in its terms, depending for its operation upon the
happening of a contingent event, has, by the happening of
that event, become absolute, and may be pleaded as a release
to the action. It constitutes in fact a part of the condition
of the bond, qualifying its provisions for the payment of the
instalments of the principal and interest, and declaring, in
effect, that the payments shall not be required, and the obligation of the bond shall cease in case the event designated
happens.t
The decision in the foreclosure suit only determined that
at the time the heaiing was had in that case in the District
Court, in January, 1860, the title had not failed. The language of the court in rendering the decision shows this. It
says: "As the facts are disclosed in the record we find no
defect in the title of Lee. We find that Noonan's title has
not failed, and no incumbrance upon the property is shown.
There has been, therefore, no breach of the agreement indorsed on the bond, nor has there been any breach of the
covenant of general warranty in Lee's deed to Noonan."
The case is entirely changed now; and facts not existing, or
at least, not established then, but since determined by judi* Mayer v. Isaac, 6 Meeson & Welsby, 612.

t Burgh v. Preston, 8 Term, 483.

408

NOONAN V. BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, Swayne, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

cial proceedings, present a case upon which this court has
heretofore never passed.
We are of opinion that the pleas of the defendant constitute a bar to the action, and that the Circuit Court erred in
sustaining the demurrer to them. It follows that its judgment must be REVERSED, and the cause remanded FoR
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred SWAYNE
and DAVIS, JJ., dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case upon two grounds, which I will proceed to state
without entering at all into the argument to support the respective propositions1. Because I think that the alleged disability to sue should
have been pleaded in abatement and not in bar. Undoubtedly a different rule of pleading prevailed at common law,
but there are three reported decisions of this court in which
it is held that such a plea in a case like the present must be
in abatement, and in view of our complicated system of jurisprudence I am not inclined to overrule those cases. They
have been regarded as authorities for many years, and I am
of the opinion that the rule which they establish is the better
one as a rule of pleading in the Federal courts than the rule
which prevailed at common law.*
2. I am also of the opinion that the decree in the former
suit is conclusive as to the rights of the parties, and that it
constitutes a complete answer to the defence in the present
suit.t
* Childress v. Emory, 8 Wheaton, 642; Kane v. Paul, 14 Peters, 33; Ven-

tress v. Smith, 10 Id. 161.
t Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499.

