Dec. 1869.]

FLANDERS v. TWEED.

Syllabus.

a square blow, and that the character of the injury to the
steamer shows that the approach of the brig was at right
angles and not head on, as they were substantially approaching when each was first descried by the other.
Although it must be admitted that the argument is ingenious and exceedingly well put, still the decisive answer
to it is that the circumstances adduced do not satisfy the
court that any such change of course was made by the brig
as is supposed, cert.ainly not until the proximity of the two
vessels was so close that a collision was inevitable, and then
it is quite clear that the steamer made a sudden change, and
it may be that the brig also changed her course, as is supposed by the claimants. Fault, under such circumstances,
will not be imputed to the vessel required to keep her course
if she was otherwise blameless.* An error committed by the
vessel required to keep her course, after the approaching
vessel is so near that the collision is inevitable, will not impair her right to recover for the injuries resulting from the
collision if she was otherwise without fault, for the reason
that those who put the vessel in that peril are chargeable
with the error, and must answer for the consequences which
it occasioned.t Examined in the light of these suggestions,
our conclusion from the evidence is that the steamer was
wholly in fault.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with direction to
AFFIRM THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

FLANDERS

V. TWEED.

1. The court expresses itself as disposed to hold parties who, under the act
of March 3d, 1865, waive a trial by jury and substitute the court for
the jury, to a reasonably strict conformity to the regulations of the act,
if they desire to save to themselves all the rights and privileges which
belong to them in trials by jury at the common law.
" Steamship Company v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 384.

t Bentley v. Coyne, 4 Wallace, 512.

FLANDERS V. TWEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Accordingly, in a case where there was no stipulation filed for the waiver
of a jury, and where the judge had filed his "statement of facts" three
months after the date of the judgment rendered-which statement, so
irregularly filed, the court regarded as a nullity-and no question of law
was to be considered as properly raised on the pleading, the court stated
that, according to the general course of proceeding in former like cases,
the judgment below should be affirmed.
3. However, in this case-one from Louisiana-it being apparent that both
parties supposed that a case had been made up according to the practice
of that State, but one not having been made up by the court nor properly filed according to the requirements of the statute, so that, from
that cause, the case, which it was meant by both court and parties to get
here, could not be properly passed upon, the judgment, under the circumstances (the case being an important one), was not affirmed, but was
reversed for mistrial, and remanded for a new trial.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being this:
The 4th section of an act of Congress of March 3d, 1865,*
thus enacts:
"Issues of fact in civil cases in any Circuit Court of the United
States may be tried and determined by the court without the
intervention of a jury, whenever the parties or attorneys of
record file a stipulation in writing with the clerk of the court
waiving a jury. The finding of the court upon the facts, which
finding may be either general or special, shall have the same
effect as the verdict of the jury. The rulings of the court in
the cause, in the progress of the trial, when excepted to, at the
time, may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United
States, upon a writ of error, or upon appeal, provided the rulings
be duly presented by a bill of exceptions. When the finding is
special, the review may also extend to the determination of the
sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment."
This statute being in force, Tweed brought suit, in the
court below, against Flanders, to recover damages, some
$40,000, for the seizure and detention of a quantity of cotton,
in New Orleans. He had previously procured the possession
of it by a writ of sequestration, according to the practice of
the courts in that State. The petition charged that the de13 Stat. at Large, 501.

Dec. 1869.]

FLANDERS

V. TWEED.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

fendant was a deputy general agent of the Treasury Department of the United States. The defendant pleaded admitting
that lie was a deputy general agent, as described in the petition, and denied all the other allegations of it. A large
amount 6f evidence was taken in the case on both sides; the
plaintiff insisting that he bought the cotton at private sale
from the individual owners, and the defendant that it was,
at the time, under seizure, and in his possession, as special
agent of the Treasury Department, holding it for the use of
the government. This evidence and the proceedings of the
court occupied about a hundred pages of the record. The
court gave judgment against the defendant for $36,976.33.
The judgment was rendered 26th February, 1868. A statement of facts by the judge was found in the record, filed
May 29th, 1868, nearly three months after the date when
the judgment was rendered. This finding of the facts began
by stating that "the cause came on to be tried on the pleadings, by consent of the parties, by the judge presiding; and
after hearing the evidence therein, and the argument of
counsel, the court finds the following fhets." This statement of the facts by the judge was the only evidence relied
on of the consent of the parties to waive a jury, except what
might be presumed from the circumstance that both parties
proceeded with the trial before the judge without objection
in the court below.
The case being brought by Flanders, the defendant below, on error to this court,
Mr. Hoar, Attorney-General, and Mr. W. A. Field, Assistant
Attorney-General, going into the record as if the case were in
form properly before this court, argued in his behalf that the
judgment of the court below should be reversed for want of
jurisdiction of the cause in the Circuit Court, with directions
that the suit be dismissed. But that if it should be deemed
that there was no defect of jurisdiction, then that sufficient
ground was presented in the erroneous rulings of the court
(which as they conceived they had sufficiently shown) for reversing the judgment, and directing a new trial.

FLANDERS

V. TWEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. Ashlon and T. D. Lincoln (a brief of Messrs. Billings
and Itughes beinq filed), contra, argued, that the statement of
facts made three months after the proper time, and in a way
plainly irregular, was a nullity, and could not be considered
here;* that the " statement" being thus disposed of, and
there being no demurrer or other pleading on the part of the
plaintiff in the record, nor any bill of exceptions, no question
of law upon the pleadings, or upon the evidence on either
side, was raised by the decision of the court below, and
that none could be considered here. The whole subject had
been fully settled at this term, in Norris v. Jackson.t The
legal presumption in favor of the correctness of the judgment below would therefbre prevail, and judgment would
have to be affirmed if the petition of the plaintiff brought
the case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court; a matter which the counsel then proceeded to argue that it did.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The statement of facts by the judge is filed upon the
29th May, 1868, nearly three months after the rendition of
the judgment. This is an irregularity for which this court
is bound to disregard it, and to treat it as no part of the
record. The statement made out of court is, of course, no
evidence before us of the facts stated, and this is the only
evidence relied on, of the consent 6f the parties to waive a
jury, except what may be presumed from the circumstance
that both parties proceeded with the trial before the judge
without objection in the court below. The objection is now
taken here by the plaintiff in error.
It is impossible to misunderstand the -condition upon
which, according to the act of March 3d, 1865, the parties
are authorized to waive a trial by jury, and substitute the
court, and, at the same time, save to themselves all the rights
and privileges which belong to them in trials by jury at common law. That condition is the filing with the clerk a written stipulation, signed by the parties, or their attorneys.
" Generes v. Bonnemer, 7 Wallace, 564.

t Supra, 125.

Dec. 1869.]

FLANDERS V. TwEED.

429

Opinion of the court.

The necessity of this law, for the purpose designed, will appear by a reference to a few of the decisions of this court.
One of the latest is the case of Campbell el al. v. Boyreau.* It
came up on error from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California, and was an action of
ejectment before the court, the jury having been waived by
the express agreement of the parties. The opinion was delivered by the Chief Justice. He observed: "It appears by the
transcript that several exceptions to the opinion of the court
were taken at the trial by the plaintiffs in error,-some to
the admissibility of evidence, and others to the construction
and legal effect which the court gave to certain instruments
in writing. But, it is unnecessary to state theme particularly,
for it has been repeatedly decided by this court that, in the
mode of proceeding which the parties have seen proper to
adopt, none of the questions, whether of fact or of law, decided by the court below, can be re-examined and revised in
this court upon a writ of error." He also observed: "The
point was directly decided in Guild and others v. Frontin,t
which, like the present, was a case from California, where a
court of the United States had adopted the same mode of
proceeding with that followed in the present instance; and
the decision was, again, reaffirmed in the case of Suydam
v. Williamson and others,T and also in the case of Kelsey and
others v. Forsyth, decided at the present term."§ Ie then
states the grounds of these decisions, namely, "that by the
established and familiar rules and principles which govern
common law proceedings, no question of law can be reviewed and re-examined in an appellate court upon a writ
of error (except only where it arises upon the process, pleadings, or judgment, in the case), unless the facts are found
by a jury, by a general or special verdict, or are admitted
by the parties upon a case stated in the nature of a special
verdict, stating the facts, and referring the questions of law
to the court."
The opinion contains a very full exposition of the princi* 21 Howard, 223.

t 18 Id. 135.

T 20 Id. 432.

21 Id. 85.

FLANDERS

V. TWEED.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pies and proceedings in the com'mon law cases, and the departure from them in trial of issues of fact before the court.
This case, and those referred to by the learned Chief Justice, establish beyond question that the act of Congress was
essential in order to preserve to the parties submitting a
cause to a trial before a court, both as to law and fact, the
benefit of a review or re-examination of questions of law in
the appellate court. The act, while it provides specially
the mode of submission, takes care to secure to the parties
the right of review as it respects all questions of law arising
out of the facts found by the court, giving to this finding
the effcct as if found by a jury, preserving, at the same time,
the right of exceptions to the rulings of the court in the
progress of the trial ; and, when the finding is special, a right
to the appellate court to determine the sufficiency of the
facts found to support the judgment.
This act of Congress is the first one that has authorized
the parties to dispense with a jury, and try the issue of fact
before the court, in respect to all the Federal courts in the
Union, except two special acts, one in respect to the State of
Louisiana, in 1824, and Califbrnia and Oregon, in 1864.*
And it is quite important to settle the practice under it at
an early day, and with a precision and distinctness that cannot be misunderstood. The act passed May 26th, 1824, relating to the courts in Louisiana, directed that the mode of
proceeding in civil causes, in the Federal courts in Louisiana, should be the same as the practice and modes of proceeding in the District Courts of that State, subject to certain
modifications mentioned in the act. The practice in these
courts of the State was according to civil law proceedings,
and the trial of issues of fact could take place before the
court by consent of the parties. This act, unfortunately, not
prescribing the mdde of procedure when a jury was waived,
and the trial before the court, as in the act of 1865, leaving
the court to grope its way as best it could under the practice
in civil law proceedings, the case to come up ultimately for
13 Stat. at Large, 4.

Dec. 1869.]

FLANDERS

V.

TWEED.

Opinion of the court.

re-examination before a common law appellate tribunal, has
led to the most painful and oftentimes protracted litigation
at nearly every term since its passage, and that, too, not
upon questions involving the merits, but questions of mere
practice. As observed by Mr. Justice Grier in Graham v.
Bayne,* "The very numerous cases on this subject, from
Field v. United Statest to Arthurs v. Jlart,t show the difficulties we have had to encounter in reconciling our modes of
review to the civil code of practice as used in the courts of'
Louisiana ;" and these cases have not diminished since the
delivery of the opinion in that case.
The history of the proceedings in the Federal courts in
Louisiana under the act of 1824 admonishes us, if we may
expect to avoid the like difficulties and disorders under the
adt of 1865, to require, in all cases,'where the parties see fit
to avail themselves of the privileges of the act, a reasonably
strict conformity to its regulations. We have already held§
that this act of 1865 applies to the Federal courts in the
State of Louisiana.
A copy of the stipulation of the parties, or attorneys, filed
with the clerk, waiving the jury, should come up with the
transcript in the return to the writ of error, so that the
court could see that the act had been complied with. There
having been no stipulation, nor any finding of the facts, in
this case, and no question upon the pleadings, it would follow, according to the general co'urse of proceeding in like
cases, heretofore in this court, that the judgment below
should be affirmed. There are, however, cases which, under
very special circumstances, the court have made an excep'tion, and have simply dismissed the writ of error, as in the
case of Barr v. The Des Moines Company,II or have reversed
the judgment below for a mistrial, and remand it for at new
See also Guild v.
trial, as in the case of Graham v. Bayne.
F.rontin.* In the present case it is apparent the parties below supposed that they had made up a case, according to the
t 9 Peters, 182.
18 Howard, 61.
Insurance Company v. Tweed, 7 Wallace, 44.
18 Howard, 60.
I1Id. 99.

: 17 Howard, 6.
**

Ib. 135.

UNITED STATES V.

HOSMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

practice in Louisiana, from the finding of the facts by the
court, that would entitle them to a re-examination of it here;
but as the court did not make it up, and file it, as of the date
of the trial and judgment, it cannot be regarded as a part of
the record; and, under the circumstances, the case being an
important one, and intended to be carried up here for reexamination, we shall REVERSE the judgment for a mistrial,
and REMAND it to the court below
FOR A NEW TRIAL.
[See supra, 125, Norris v. Jackson.]

UNITED STATES V.

HOSMER.

The 3d section of the act of August 6th, 1861, which enacts that
All the acts, proclamations, and orders of the President of the United States,
after the 4th of March, 1861, respecting the army and na.vy of the United States,
and calling out or relating to the militia or volunteers from the States, are
hereby approved, and in all respects legalized and made valid, to the same intent, and with the same effect, as if they bad been issued and done under the previous express authority of the Congress of the United States,"
validates and ratifies a proclamation and orders of the President, made
in May, 1861; and where such proclamation and order promised to privates who entered the service a bounty of $100, "when honorably discharged," a private entering on the 15th July, 1861, is entitled to the
bounty whenever honorably'discharged; though he have served less
than six months. The act of 22d July, 1861, the 1st section of which
provides that
"All provisions of law applicable to three years volunteers shall apply to two
years volunteers, and to all volunteers who have been or may be accepted into
the service of the United States for a period not less than six months,"
and whose 5th section provides that $100 shall be paid to privates
"honorably discharged," who shall have served "Itwo years, or during
the war, if sooner ended,'' does not apply to him.

Tm~s was all appeal by the United States from the judgment of the Court of Claims, giving to a discbarged soldier
a bounty which he claimed of $100.
Mr. Talbot, for the United States; Mr. Schouler, contra.

