CITY OF PARIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

her course was altered two points, for the purpose of passing
under the stern of the America, soon after the latter vessel
was discovered. This, if so, was the first error. It was the
business of the Corsica, as we have seen, to have kept on her
course. After this, perceiving the danger she had brought
upon herself, her helm was again starboarded, and the collision ensued. According to the master of the Corsica's own
account, therefore, the accident occurred in consequence of
her assuming to perform the duty which devolved on the
America under the Congressional rule above quoted.
It is also evident that the Corsica was under considerable
headway when the collision occurred. The force of the blow
proves this. The America did not contribute to the effect
of the blow, for the weight of the evidence is, that she was
backing away from the Corsica at the time. The fact is, that
the latter vessel was under too much speed for the place she
was in-a crowded harbor, spotted with vessels at anchor
and in motion. This made her headway uncontrollable, and
accounts for the fact that, although her officers tried to check
her speed, they were only very partially successful.
We are satisfied that the decree of the Circuit Court was
right, and ought to be
AFFIRMED.

CITY OF PARIS.
1. The rule declared in the preceding case as to the obligation of large steam
vbssels moving in a crowded harbor, like New York, to move slowly

and to keep themselves under such entire control as to be able to stop
on short notice, declared anew.
2. Such steamers should keep a vigilant lookout, and if they enter narrow
passages, between other vessels, do so only when they plainly see that
they can proceed through them without danger to other vessels. If
notwithstanding all their caution and vigilance they see any vessel ap-

proaching, so as to make a danger of collision, they should stop and
reverse their engine as soon as is possible.

THIS was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
I

Dec. 1869.]

CITY OF PARIS.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

of New York; affirming a decree of the District Court on
a libel in admiralty; the waters where the collision took
place having been the very same as in the collision in the
last case; those, namely, between Jersey City and the Battery
at New York.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The cause was one of collision. The vessels concerned
were the schooner Percy Heilmar and the steamer City of
Paris. The schooner was 78 feet in length; her tonnage,
new measurement, was 107 tons; her carrying capacity was
about 170 tons. The City of Paris was an iron screw steamer.
She was 375 feet long, and 40 feet beam. H1er register was
1669 tons, English measurement. Her engines were 600
horse power. The schooner was laden with coal, and was
on a voyage from Philadelphia to Pawtucket, Rhode Island,
by way of Long Island Sound.
The steamer was engaged in running between the ports
of New York and Liverpool. The collision occurred on the
morning of the 14th of April, 1866, below the Battery, in
the North River. The schooner had arrived at the port of
New York that morning. The tide being unfavorable for
ascending the East River, she stood over towards Jersey City
to find a suitable place to anchor, intending to wait there
until the tide in the East River should be favorable. While
proceeding to carry out this purpose, heading about west by
north, with the wind free, the steamer ran into her, striking
her on the starboard side, about the main chains. The blow
was of such violence as to prostrate her mainmast and cut
her nearly in two. As soon as she was struck the steamer
put on steam and carried her forward to avoid raking, or
being raked by other vessels, which the pilot of the steamer
says " would have done more damage than sinking a dozen
schooners." The schooner hung for a time on the steamer's
bow. The pilot says: "As soon as we got below, a little
out of danger, a little room, then we stopped the steamer,
backed on her hard, backed out from the schooner, and she

CITY OF PARIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

went down." All this happened so quickly that those on
board had difficulty in escaping with their lives. They lost
everything else. The captain was knocked overboard and
rescued by a small boat which happened to be present.
The course of the schooner was nearly at right angles
with the course of the steamer. It lay between a brig and
a ship-both with their heads to the eastward, and one a little
astern of the other. They were about three hundred feet
apart. The brig was on the starboard and the ship was on
the port side of the schooner. The course of the steamer
was between the same vessels, with the ship on the starboard
and the brig on her larboard side. The pilot says he picked
out this course, though it was " pretty narrow." The subject was talked over. His plan was to go under the stern
of the brig and ahead of the ship.
As almost invariably happens in this class of cases, each
vessel has a theory which vindicates itself and condemns its
adversary; and, as usual, each theory is earnestly supported
by those on board the vessel which propounds it. In this
case it is clear there is fault and responsibility somewhere.
Our duty is to find where they belong and to pronounce accordingly. The District Court adjudged against the steamer,
and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree.
The theory of the schooner is, that she was keeping her
course, as she had a right to do, and that the steamer was
wholly in fault. The steamer maintains that as soon as the
schooner had passed under the stern of the brig, she descried the steamer for the first time and luffed, intending to
pass between the brig and the steamer; that the steamer
backed hard to enable her to do so, and that the schooner
thereupon immediately fell off into the line of the steamer's course, and thus brought about the catastrophe. The
steamer insists that if the schooner had kept her course,
without luffing, the steamer would have passed under her
stern; that if the schooner had continued her course after
luffing, she would have passed between the steamer and the
brig, and that her subsequent change of cou'se was a gross
fault, the sole cause of the collision, and deprives her of all

Dec. 1869.]

CITY OF PARIS.
Opinion of the court.

claim to damages for the consequences. These conflicting
views define the sphere of our inquiries in the case.
The morning was clear. The river was crowded with
vessels sailing and at anchor. The condition of things required the greatest circumspection on the part of the steamer.
H1er rate of speed was probably from seven to eight miles an
hour. The combined speed of both vessels was not less than
ten miles an hour. The schooner was first seen by Mathewson,
who was then, and had been from the time the steamer left
the wharf, on her forecastle head as a lookout. He says that
when first seen the schooner was from three to four points
off the port bow of the steamer, and, he thinks, was distant
about four hundred yards. Captain Kennedy, of the steamer,
thinks she was a quarter of a mile off. Estimates of distance,
under such circumstances, are little to be relied upon. It is
to be presumed the witnesses in this instance made it-large
enough. Conceding that the distance to be passed by both
vessels, to the point of collision, was a full quarter of a mile,
the combined speed of ten miles an hour would have brought
them together in a minute and a half. Mathewson reported
the schooner as soon as he saw her. The orders that were
given show the perturbation which existed. Captain Kennedy says: "When the schooner was reported, the pilot and
myself both ordered the helm hard a-starboard. I said, along
with the pilot, hard a-starboard, and at the same time reduced the engines dead slow. . . . The next order was to
stop the engines and reverse full speed. I worked the indicator myself" The orders to slow, to stop, and to reverse
the engines came too late. The steamer had but a little way
to go. The headway she was under could not be arrested
at once. It carried her fbrward with such force that her impact was necessarily fatal to the schooner. Her starboarding did no good. She could not go to the port side more
than two points without colliding with the brig. She passed
within an ordinary ship's length of the stern of that vessel.
We think that if there had been due care and vigilance
the schooner would have been seen at an earlier period.

. 638

CITY O:F PARIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

There was nothing to prevent it. The result evinces gross
negligence. As soon as it was seen that the schooner was
approaching the track of the steamer, the steamer should at
once have stopped or reversed her engines, and have done
all in her power to avert the impending peril.* She ought
not to have entered upon the narrow track between the ship
and the brig, without being very careful first to see that her
passage would involve no danger to any approaching vessel
in its transit.
The results proved that the speed of the steamer was
higher than was consistent with the safety of other vessels
in so crowded a thoroughfare, and hence higher than she
was warranted to assume.
For these faults she must be condemned.
Was the schooner in fault?
When she passed the brig and reached the steamer's track
she was pursuing her regular course. This she had a right
to do, and the duty rested upon the steamer to see her and
keep out of her way.t At this point blame is imputed to
her. Loeman, the pilot on the brig, says, "she luffed a little,
and then kept off immediately after she luffed." The pilot
on the steamer says she luffed "a very little while. It
seemed to me about long enough to get his wheel down and
then hove it up again. He appeared to be in a confused
state; got frightened, and did not know exactly what to do."
The conduct of the schooner must be considered in the light
of the facts. They were enough to produce consternation.
As she passed the stern of the brig the peril of her position
became apparent. A steamer of immense power was bearing down directly upon her, and rapidly approaching. Escape
seemed impossible and destruction inevitable. There was
no time for reflection or precaution. The vessel and the
lives of all on board were at stake. The acts complained of
were done in the excitement of the moment, and in extremis.
Whether they were wise it is not material to inquire. If
Acts of Congress, April 29th, 1864, 13 Stat., 61, art. 16.
t Act of 1864, art. 15.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED S1ATES

V.

ROCHA.

Syllabus.

anwise, they were errors and not faults. In such cases the
law in its wisdom gives absolution.* It is by no means clear
to our minds that if the schooner had failed to luff the results would not have been still more disastrous. It is quite
probable that the steamer would have struck her midship,
have passed over her, and destroyed the lives of all on board.
Her conduct neither caused nor aggravated the catastrophe.
After reaching the steamer's track she had no power to avoid
it. We find in the record no ground upon which we can
hold her responsible in any degree for the casualty.
The fact that both the courts below concurred in condemning the steamer and in exonerating the schooner is entitled
to our respectful consideration.t
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. ROCIHA.
1. The eleventh section of the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle
private land claims in California (9 Stat. at Large, 631), provides that
the commissioners created under the act, and the District and Supreme
Courts, ' in deciding on the validity of any claim brought before them
under the provisions of the act, shall be governed by the treaty of
Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs
of the government from which the claim is derived, the principles of
equity, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States,
so far as they are applicable:"
An appeal from a decree of the commissioners rejecting a claim having been made to the District Court,
and there dismissed for want of prosecution, leave to file a bill of review
upon newly discovered evidence was granted by that court: Held, that
though the provision of the eleventh section refers to the rules to be
observed by the courts in passing upon the merits of the claimant's
right, or title to the land, the liberal and equitable principles there
enjoined as a duty in the decision of cases, cannot be fully or fairly
carried out without giving to them application and effect in conducting the proceedings before the courts as well as in passing upon the
merits; and that to this end the court possessed the power to open a case
for the purpose of hearing newly discovered evidence upon the title of
the claimant.
* The Grace Girdler, 7 Wallace, 201.

