Dec. 1869.]

WisE v. AkLLIS.
Statement of the case.

named persons so served, and I finally left it with said
Snow," who was chairman of the board.
Mr. Grant,for the relator, having submitted the case with
a few remarksMr. Justice NELSON subsequently delivered the opinion
of the court, to the effect, that as to the entry which the
court on motion allowed to be made in the journal nune pro
tune, as the matter was one which arose from the inadvertence of the clerk, the entry was but common practice and
matter of course, and that the amendment to the marshal's
return was of daily practice also.
The judgment for the writ of attachment was accordingly
AFFIRMED.

WISE v. ALLIS.
1. In giving notice, under the 15th section of the Patent Act of July 4th,
1836, of the names and places of residence of those by whom be intends
to prove a previous use or knowledge of the thing, and where the same

had been used, the party giving notice is not bound to be so specific as
to relieve the other from all inquiry or effort to investigate the facts.
If liefairly puts his adversary in the way that he may ascertain all that
is necessary to his defence or answer, it is all that can be required, and
he is not bound by his notice to impose an unnecessary and embarrassing
restriction on his own right of producing proof of wlhat he asserts.
2. Held, therefore, in a suit for infringing a patent for balancing millstones,
that when, in addition to the particular town or city in which such
large objects as millstones are used, the name and residence of the witness by whom that use was to be proved was also given, there was sufficient precision and certainty in the notice.

ON certificate of division of opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
The Patent Act of July 4th, 1836, referring to suits for
the infrinugement of patents, enacts by its 15th section that
"whenever the defendant relies in his defence on the fact
of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing
patented, lie shall state in his notice of special matter the
VOL. IX.

47

738

WIsE V. ALLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant.

names and places of residence of those whom he intends to
prove to have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and
where the same had been used."
This section being in force, Wise sued Allis in the court
below for infringement of a patent for an improvement in
balancing millstones. The defendent pleaded the general
issue, and also gave notice that the invention claimed was
well known and in general use before the patentee professed
to have invented it, and he specified Utica, Rochester, B3uffhlo, Albany, New York City, and -Brooklyn, in the State of
New York, as the places where it had so been used, and gave
the names of witnesses in each of those places by whom he
expected to prove that fact; but he did not specify the mills
in which the supposed prior use bad been made.
On the trial the judges of the Circuit Court differed in
opinion as to whether the notice was sufficiently specific in
its reference to the places where the prior use was had, and
certified that difference to this court in the shape of two
questions, in substance, to wit, this, whether the evidence
of use, taken under that notice, was admissible. In form,
the questions were:
1st. Is the defendant entitled, under his notice, to give
evidence of the use of said invention or millstone balance by
any person or p)ersons prior to the alleged invention by the
patentee thereof?
2d. Should evidence of such prior use of said invention or
millstone balance be excluded on the ground that the notice
aforesaid is defective and insufficient for the purpose of
such evidence ?
Mr.Walker, for the defendant, contended,
That the notice did not specify place: that Utica, Rochester, Buffalo, Albany, New York City, or Brooklyn, were indeed each a place. So was England, India, France, Spain,
or Wisconsin, each a place. To refer the plaintiff to New
York City, with her population of 1,300,000, and her mills,
numbering 916, as the place where prior use was made of'
his invention, was mockery. Reference to the whole State

Dec. 1869.]

WISH v..ALLIS.
Opinion of the court.

of Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, or Kansas, would have been
to a less number of people or mills; and to a place where
search could have been made with far less of danger. Under
this notice, after plaintiff had travelled from Wisconsin to
New York City; had gone the rounds of nine hundred and
fifteen of her mills, and returned after incurring onerous
expenses, and finding nothing like his invention, and all this
within thirty days; he might still be defeated on the trial,
by having the fact sprung upon him in evidence, that it was
the very nine hundred and sixteenth mill in which his cherished invention had been used. Then why not have told
him so at first, in the notice? lie could then have gone to
that mill at once. If he had found the notice true, he could
have abandoned an unjust suit. Iffalse, could have prepared
to repel a pirate's unjust defence. Yet, New York was but
one of six large cities named in the notice to be searched by
the plaintiff within thirty.days, and a thousand miles away.
-91r. X. -.

Carpenter, contra.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The degree of particularity or certainty necessary in pleas
and notices is an ever-recurring question in judicial proceedings, and can never be effectually disposed of so long as
new and varying circumstances may present the question in
new aspects.
The object of the rule is undoubtedly to enable the other
party to make such answer or response to the matter set up
in the plea or notice, either by way of pleading or of evidence, or such cross-examination of the witness of the party
setting up the plea or notice as the facts of his case may
enable him to do. In other words, to apprise him fairly of
what he may expect to meet under the plea or notice.*
In the case before us, in addition to the common law
rules, Congress has, for the protection of patentees, made an
enactment on the subject. With the requirements of this
statute the defendant has complied, so far as the names and
* Teese v. Huntingdon, 23 Howard, 10.

740

WILKINS v. ELLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

residence of the witnesses are concerned; but it is denied
that he has been sufficiently specific as to the places where
the use was to be shown. It is said that it is not sufficient
to name the city, but that the particular mill in which the
invention had been used must be pointed out. But we cannot take judicial notice how many, or how few, mills using
Stones may be in any particular locality. In some town
there may be but one. Nor do we think that the party giving notice is bound to be so specific as to relieve the other
from all inquiry or effbrt to investigate the facts. If he
fairly puts his adversary in the way that he may ascertain
all that is necessary to his defence or answer, it is all that
can be required, and he is not bound by his notice to impose
an unnecessary and embarrassing restriction on his own
right of producing proof of what he asserts. We are all,
therefore, of opinion, that when, in addition to the particular
town or city in which such large objects as millstones are
used, the name and residence of the witness by whom that
use is to be proved is also given, there is sufficient precision
and certainty in the notice.*
The questions propounded are accordingly answered: the
first in the affirmative, and the second in the negative.

WILKINS V.

ELLETT,

ADMINISTRATOR.

A voluntary payment of a debt to a foreign administrator held good as
against the claim of an administrator duly appointed at the domicile of
the debtor, in which last place the debt was paid; there having been no

creditors of the intestate in this last place, nor any persons there entitled as distributees.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee; the case was this:
Quarles being domiciled in the State of Alabama, died
there, and letters of administration were there taken out by
*Phillips

v. Page, 24 Howard, 164.

