Dec. 1869.]

PUBLIC SCHOOLS V. WALKER.

603

Statement of the case.

later adjudications referred to, he was entitled to recover,
and to an action upon which the prior judgment in Woodworth v. F llon was not and could not be a bar. The act of
Congress of July 1st, 1864, was a further confirmation of
the Woodworth title, and operated in the same manner as
the ordinance of the city council and the act of the legislature before mentioned.
It is said that the act of Congress was passed after the
institution of this suit, and cannot, therefore, be considered.
To this there are two answers. It is by no means clear that
the act was necessary to the completeness and validity of the
title in question. The later adjudications referred to, made
before the passage of the act, held by necessary implicatiou
that it was not. But if it were necessary, we have no difficulty in holding that it took effect by relation, as of the time
when the act of the legislature confirming the ordinance of
the council was passed.*
We think the facts found by the court below fully sustain
the judgment given, and it is
AFFIRMED.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS V. WALKER.

Where counsel desire to have a case reheard, they may-if the court does
not, on its own motion, order a rehearing-submit without argument, a
brief written or printed petition or suggestion of the point or points
which they think important. If upon such petition or suggestion any
judge who concurred in the decision thinks proper to move for a rehearing the motion will be coisidered. If not so moved, the rehearing

is denied as of course.

THIS ease was argued at an earlier part of the term; and
the court, after advisement, having announced its judgment
of affirmance,t Messrs. Blair and Dick, for the plainti#fs in error,
*Poole

et al. v. Fleeger et al., 11 Peters, 185; Jackson v. Dickenson et al.,

15 Johnson, 809; Hammond v. Warfield et al , 2 Harris & Johnson, 155;
McConnell v. Brown, Littell's Select Cases, 460; Pearson v. Darrington, 21
Alabama, 175.

t Supra, 290.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS v. WALKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

now submitted, without oral argument, a printed, brief, asking for rehearing and setting forth certain points of the case,
including a fundamental fact, on which as they conceived,
the court had fallen into misapprehension.
Having taken time to examine the brief,
The CHIEF JUSTICE now delivered the opinion of the
court.
No member of the court who concurred in the judgment
desires a reargument, and the petition must, therefore, be
denied.
The rule on this subject, long since established, was stated
by Chief Justice Taney at the December Term, 1852, in these

words:
" No reargument will be granted in any ease unless a member
of the court who concurred in the judgment desires it, and when
that is the case it will be ordered without waiting fbr the application of counsel."
The grounds of this rule were fully explained in that case,
and need not be restated.*
Where the court does not on. its own motion order a rehearing, it will be proper for counsel to submit without argument, as has been done in the present instance, a brief written or printed petition or suggestion of the point or points
thought irhportant. If upon such petition or suggestion any
judge who concurred in the decision thinks proper to move
for a rehearing the motion will be considered. If not so
moved the rehearing will be denied as of course.
Brown v. Aspden, 14 Howard, 25; United States v. Knight's Adm., 1
Black, 489.

