Dec. 1869.]

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.
Statement of the case.

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.
1. It would seem that the restriction in the 11th section of the Judiciary
Act, giving original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, and which provides that they shall not "have cognizance of any suit to recover the
contents of any promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of an
assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment had been made," applies only
to rights of action founded on contracts, which contain within themselves some promise or duty to be performed, and not to mere naked
rights of action founded on some wrongful act, or some neglect of duty
to which the law attaches damages.
2. However this may be, the restriction of the 11th section not being found
in the language of the 12th, and the reasons for its being in the 11th
section not existing for its being in the 12th, it is not to be considered
as applying to cases transferred from State courts to the Circuit Court
under this latter section.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
The 11th section of the Judiciary Act, a section which defines the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,* enacts:

"That the Circuit Courts shall have originalcognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a
civil nature at common law or in equity, when the matter in
dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500,
and the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners, . . . or the
suit is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State."

But the section -gives this original cognizance subject to
two limitations, of which one runs thus:
"Nor shall any District or Circuit Court have cognizance of
any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other
chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no
assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
1 Stat. at Large, 78.

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Having thus conferred and limited the original jurisdiction, the act in the 12th section provides:
"That if a suit be commenced in any State court against an
alien, or by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
against a citizen of another State, . . and the defendant shall,
at the time of entering his appearance in such State court, file
a petition for the removal of the cause for trial into the next
Circuit Court, . . . it shall then be the duty of the State court
to accept the surety, and proceed no further in the cause, ...
and the cause shall then proceed in the same manner as if it had been
brought by original process."*
With these enactments in force, Kennedy & Co., merchants of New Orleans, brought suit against Bushnell, to
recover from him the balance of ten thousand dollars, which
had been intrusted or lent by them to Mills & Frisby, doing
business at Baton Rouge, for the purchase of cotton, to be
shipped to the firm in New Orleans. Bushnell borrowed
the whole sum of Mills & Frisby under a promise to return
it within six days; repaid, in fact, twenty-five hundred d6llars, but failed to refund the balance. Thereupon, Mills &
Frisby assigned all their claim to the debt of Bushnell to
Kennedy & Co., who filed their petition against him in the
Third District Court of New Orleans, and prayed a writ of
attachment, which was issued accordingly.
Certain parties, resident in New Orleans, were made garnishees, and required to answer interrogatories touching the
moneys, credits, or property of Bushnell in their hands, or
under their control. These interrogatories were answered
by the peremptory denial of the garnishees that they had
in their hands, or under their control, anything belonging
to Bushnell. Afterwards, a citation was issued against Bushnell, and served personally upon him, requiring an answer to
the petition. Thereupon he appeared and filed a petition,
averring that all the members of the firm of Kennedy & Co.
were citizens of Louisiana, and that he was a citizen of Connecticut, and prayed that the suit might be removed into
* 1 Stat. at Large, 79.

Dec. 1869.]

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana. This petition was allowed, and the cause removed according to its prayer. But, by an order of the
Circuit Court, the suit was remanded to the State District
Court, and it was this order which was brought here for
revision by the writ of error.
That Kennedy & Co., as assignees of Mills & Frisby, were
entitled, under the laws of Louisiana, to sue in the State
court upon the debt assigned to them, in their own names,
was apparently conceded upon the argument at the bar.
But it seemed to have been the opinion of the Circuit Court
that they could not maintain a suit in that character in a
court of the United States without averring in their petition
that their assignors, Mills & Frisby, were citizens of another
State than the defendant, entitled, if no assignment had been
made, to maintain suit upon the debt against the defendant;
the ground of this opinion, doubtless, having been the disability to sue in the National courts, imposed by the already
quoted 11th section of the Judiciary Act upon the assignees
of a chose in action, in cases of which those courts would not
have jurisdiction if the suit were brought by the assignors.
Mr. Durant,in support of the order below:
A suit brought by original process in a Circuit Court of
the United States, on a chose in action assigned to the plaintiff; must show on the face of the record that the action
could be maintained under the jurisdiction of the court if
no assignment had been made;* but the petition originally
filed in the State court, and transferred to the United States
Circuit Court, does not show on its face that the parties,
Mills & Frisby, who assigned the claim sued on to Kennedy
& Co., could have brought suit against Bushnell by original
process in the Circuit Court. The Circuit Court was, therefore, on the face of the record, without jurisdiction.
The theory of the 11th section of the Judiciary Act of
1789 is, that the civic title or quality of citizenship pertainTurner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dallas, 8; Mollan v. Torrance,

9 Wheaton, 538.

BUSHNELL

V. ]KENNEDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing to him who assigns a chose in action is transferred by the
assignment to the assignee, and will disqualify the latter,
however qualified otherwise he may be, from suing in the
Circuit Court, if the former were himself disqualified; and
if his quality be not affirmatively set forth, it is as if he were
presumed to be disqualified, and the suit cannot be maintained; or, as an equivalent expression, the citizenship of the
assignor of the chose in action must be alleged in the petition.
This necessity goes into the 12th section, which expressly
enacts that the cause, when transferred, shall "proceed in
the same manner as if it had been brought by original process." Had this cause been brought by original process,
confessedly it would have been dismissed.
Mr. Ashton, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
That the indebtedness of Bushnell to Mills & Frisby was
a chose in action cannot be doubted; for under that comprehensive description are included all debts and all claims for
damages for breach of contract, or for torts connected with
contract. Nor can it be denied that every suitor who brings
an action in a court of the United States must aver in his
pleadings a state of facts which, under the National Constitution and laws, gives to the court jurisdiction of his suit.*
In the case before us the suit was brought in the State
court, where no question of jurisdiction, founded upon citizenship, could arise. In that court, therefore, there was no
necessity for any averment in respect to citizenship. But
under the 12th section of the Judiciary Act, any defendant,
being a citizen of another State than the plaintiff or petitioner, is entitled, upon application at the proper time, to
have his cause removed to a Circuit Court of the United
States; and in the case under consideration, the defendant
filed his petition, averring the requisite facts as to his own
citizenship and the citizenship of the petitioners, and, thereupon, obtained an order for removal.
* Turner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dallas, 8.

Dec. 1869.].

BUSHNELL

V. KENNEDY.

Opinion of the court.

The order was, doubtless, rightly made. The jurisdiction
of the cause was regularly transferred to the Circuit Court,
and the cause stood in that court as if brought there by
original process. Thejurisdiction thus acquired by the Circuit Court was in no sense appellate. Removal, under our
peculiar system of State and National jurisdictions, is simply
a mode in which the right to resort under certain circumstances to the latter rather than the former is secured to defendants as well as plaintiffs.
Two questions, then, arise in this cause:
(1st.) Whether the 11th section of the Judiciary Act applies to a suit instituted by the assignees of such a chose in
action as is shown in the pleadings? and(2d.) Whether valid objection can be taken to jurisdiction
of such a suit when removed to the Circuit Court by the defendant under the 12th section.
Upon the first question, it may be observed that the denial
of jurisdiction of suits by assignees has never been taken in
an absolutely literal sense. It has been held that suits upon
notes payable to a particular individual or to bearer may be
maintained by the holder, without any allegation of citizenship of the original payee; though it is not to be doubted
that the holder's title to the note could only be derived
through transfer or assignment.* So, too, it has been decided, where the assig-nment was by will, that the restriction
is not applicable to the representative of the decedent.t
And it has also been determined that the assignee of a chose
in action may maintain a suit in the Circuit Court to recover
possession of the specific thing, or damages for its wrongful
caption or detention, though the court would have no jurisdiction of the suit if brought by the assignors.1 And it has
recently§ been very strongly argued that the restriction applies only to contracts "which may be properly said to have
* Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mason, 259 (1817); Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 2
Peters, 321 (1829).
j- Chappedelaine v. Dechenaux, 4 Cranch, 808 (1808).
1 Deshler v. Dodge, 16 Howard, 681 (1858).

Barney v. Globe Bank, 2 American Law Register, N. S., 229 (1862).

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contents;" "not mere naked rights of action founded on
some wrongful act, some neglect of duty to which the law
attaches damages, but rights of action founded on contracts
which contain within themselves some promise or duty to be
performed."
And this view of the restriction seems to be warranted by
the consideration of the mischief which it was intended to
prevent. Not a little apprehension was excited at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution in respect to the extent
of the jurisdiction vested in the National courts; and that
apprehension was respected in the Judiciary Act, which soon
afterwards received the sanction of Congress. It was obvious that numerous suits, by assignees, under assignments
made for the express purpose of giving jurisdiction, would
be brought in those courts if the right of assignees to sue
was left unrestricted. It was to prevent that evil and to
keep the jurisdiction of the National courts within just limits
that the restriction was put into the act.
This view has the sanction of Chief Justice Marshall, who,
in the case of the Bank of the United States v. The Planters'
Bank of Georgia,* used this language: " It was apprehended
that bonds and notes given in the usual course of business,
by citizens of the same State to each other, might be assigned
to the citizens of another State, and thus render the maker
liable to a suit in a Federal court."
And when it is remembered what class of actions it is,
which, upon the principles of the common law, can be maintained by an assignee in his own name, it may well be admitted that it would not have been an unreasonable construction of the restriction if it had been applied only to notes,
bonds, and other written contracts, containing promises to
pay money, upon which an assignee could sue without using
the name of the assignor. Of such contracts, certainly, it
may with more propriety be said that they have "contents,"
than of claims for damages arising either from torts or from
breaches of contracts.
* 9 Wheaton, 904 (1824).

Dec. 1869.]

BUSHNELL V. KENNEDY.

Opinion of the court.

It is true that at an earlier day a different construction
was given to it. In Sere v. PRol,* it was held that an assignee,
by act of the law, as the general assignee of the effects of
an insolvent, could not sue in the Circuit Court unless the
insolvent himself might sue. It is not easy to reconcile this
opinion with the'later judgments; but it is not necessary now
to determine definitely the true construction of the restriction, as we think that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
over the cause before us can be well supported on the 12th
section. That section, as we have already stated, provides
for the removal of suits by defendants. The restriction in
the 11th section is not found in the 12th. Nor does the
reason for the restriction exist. In the 11th section its office
was to prevent frauds upon the jurisdiction, and vexation of
defendants, by assignments made for the purpose of having
suits brought in the name of assignees, but in reality for the
benefit of assignors. In the 12th it would have no office,
for the removal of suits could not operate as a fraud on jurisdiction, and was a privilege of defendants, not a hardship
upon them.
It is true, indeed, as was said in argument, that the section
provides that after removal "the cause shall then proceed
in the same manner as if it had been brought by original
process;" but we cannot recognize the validity of the inference that the defendant, before pleading in the Circuit Court,
may move to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction. This
construction would enable the non-resident defendant in a
State court to remove the suit against him into a Circuit
Court, and then, by a simple motion to dismiss, defeat the
jurisdiction of both courts. Such a construction, unless imperatively required by the plain language of the act, is whoaly
inadmissible. And it is clear that the language of the act
does not require it. Its plain meaning is that the suit shall
proceed, not that it shall proceed unless the defendant moves
to dismiss. The defendant is not in court against his consent,
but by his own act, and the suit is to proceed as if brought
* 6 Cranch, 332.

NOONAN

V. BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

by original process, and the defendant had waived all exception to jurisdiction, and pleaded to the merits. Under the
11th section the exception to jurisdiction is the privilege of
the defendant, and may be waived; for the suit is still between
citizens of different States, and the jurisdiction still appears
in the record. The first act of the defendant, indeed, under
the 12th section, is something more than consent, something
more than a waiver of objection to jurisdiction, it is a prayer
for the privilege of resorting to Federal jurisdiction, and he
cannot be permitted afterwards to question it.*
We cannot doubt, therefore, that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the case under consideration. We are all of
opinion that the court erred in remanding the cause to the
jurisdiction of the State court, and the order to that effect
REVERSED.
must be

KONAN

V. BRADLEY.

1. An administrator appointed in one State cannot, by virtue of such appointment, maintain an action in another State, in the absence of a
statute of the latter State giving effect to that appointment, to enforce
an obligation due his intestate. If he desires to prosecute a suit in
another State he must first obtain a grant of administration therein in
accordance with its laws.
2. In an action by a plaintiff as an administrator, the objection that, as to the
causes of action stated in the declaration, he is not, and never has been,
administrator of the effects of the deceased, may be taken by a special
plea in bar.
3. It would appear that the objection may also be taken by a plea in abatc
ment.
4. One plea in bar is not waived by the existence of another plea in bar,
though the two may be inconsistent in their averments with each other.
The remedy of the plaintiff in such case is not by demurrer, but by
motion to strike out one of the pleas, or to compel the defendant to elect
by which he will abide.
5. In an action by a plaintiff as administrator, a plea to the merits admits
the representative character of the plaintiff to the extent stated in the
declaration, and if that statement is consistent with the grant of letters
Sayles v. Northwestern Insurance Co., 2 Curtis, 212.

