Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

WEIDE.

677

Syllabus.

little to the westward. The captain of the Colgate saw her
sheer to the westward as soon as her engine was stopped.
lie says the Colgate had a tendency to pull her in that direction. The wind and tide both contributed to that result.
The testimony of these officers outweighs that of Teason,
which has no support from any other witness. The stem of
the Colgate was twenty feet aft of the stem of the Syracuse.
The steamer in crossing headed to the eastward. If, as is
alleged, the sudden sheer of the Syracuse brought her into
the track of the steamer, and thus produced the collision,
the blow must necessarily have been given by the stem of
one steamer or the other. Such was not the result. The
stem of neither touched the other. The steamer struck her
port forward gangway against the bluff of the bow of the
Colgate, ten feet aft the stem of the latter. This is entirely
irreconcilable with the testimony of Teason, and is fatal to
the theory which it is relied upon to support. That theory
is the sole ground of imputation against the Syracuse.
Other views vindicating the Syracuse with more or less of
cogency might be presented, but we deem it unnecessary to
pursue the subject further. In our judgment the Syracuse
is not shown to have been in fault.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

WEIDE.

1. Whether or not on the transfer of a case from a State court to a Federal
court, under the 12th section of the Judiciary Act, a new declaration
should be filed, is a question of practice and not a subject for error.
2. In a suit against an insurance company for the value of goods lost in
the burning of a store, day-books and ledgers, whose correctness as
showing the amount and value of the goods is testified to by the person
proving them, are, in connection with his testimony, competent evi-.
dence, though they would not be so by themselves, to show such value.
'8. Where a witness in such a suit, when examined in chief, testifies apparently to the correctness of an abstract made from papers burnt in the
fire, and is cross-examined upon the subject of that correctness, the party

cross-examining cannot, where he has not caused the cross-examination
to be brought up on the bill of exception, object, on a question, on error,

INSURANCE

COMPANY

V. WEIDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
as to the admissibility of the abstract, that the witness has not testified
sufficiently to the correctness. He should have caused the cross-examination to appear on the bill if he wish to show this.
4. Its correctness being assumed, the abstract is good as secondary evidence.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.

Charles Weide and Joseph Weide, of Minnesota, brought
suit in one of the State courts of Minnesota against the ZEtna
Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance, to recover
$10,000 insured upon a stock of goods lost by fire within
the conditions of the policy. The suit was removed to the
Federal court under the 12th section of the Judiciary Act,
which enacts that suits such as the present was may be
transferred, and that copies of the process being filed in the
Circuit Court, "the cause shall proceed there in the same
manner as ifit had been brought there by original process."
A copy of the process, and of the complaint in the State
court, were filed in the Circuit, and the company, the defendant, appeared there and put in its answer to the complaint;
but no new declaration was filed.
On the trial, the counsel for the defendant moved to dismiss the cause from the docket, on the ground that a new
complaint or declaration, properly entitled, had not been
filed in the Circuit; but the motion was denied.
The principal question in the case, however, was as to the
admissibility of evidence. Both the plaintiffs in the court
below were witnesses to prove the value of the goods in the
store lost by the fire. All the books of account were burnt,
except two day-books and a ledger. The day-books covered
entries of sales and purchases in the store from 1865 down
to the day of the fire, which was on the 22d of February,
1867. The ledger began the 1st of October, 1866, and contained a merchandise account, posted from the day-books,
also coming down to the time of the fire. Joseph Weide,
one of the plaintiffs, testified that the value of the goods at
the time of the fire, according to the books, was $45,564.64,
and with profits added, would amount to $70,000; that the
cash inventory of the goods, the last of February, 1866,
amounted to $75,500; that he got the amount from the fly-

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. WEIDE.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

leaf of the ledger, upon which, in July, 1866, he made an
abstract from the inventories for several years before the
fire; and that these inventories were destroyed by it. The
witness identified the day-books and ledger, and testified
that these books were kept by him and his partner, as they
had no clerk; that they were the books kept in their business, and that they were correct; that the entries in the daybooks were the original entries of purchases and sales; that
he could not state from recollection the amount or value of
the stock on hand at the time of the fire, nor at the time of
taking the last inventory, in February, 1866, nor by the purchases and sales after that inventory. This witness was
cross-examined, among other things, as to the entries in the
ledger, and as to the entries on the fly-leaf, and as to the
correctness of these entries, and of the amounts therein
stated. The evidence on the cross-examination is not stated
in the bill of exceptions.
Charles Weide, the other member of the firm, was also
examined, and, as the record stated, gave, in substance, the
same testimony as Joseph.
Other witnesses were called, and gave evidence as to the
value of the goods in the store at the time of the fire.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence the fly-leaf of the
ledger, a copy of which was in the record. The defendant
objected to the same as incompetent and immaterial, and not
made at the date of the transaction. The court admitted it.
They also offered in evidence the two day-books and ledger,
which were objected to, but admitted.
Verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff,
the insurance company brought the case here.
Messrs. Brisbin and Lamprey, for the plaintiff in error:
1. Upon the transfer the action should have proceeded as
if then originally commenced in the Circuit Court. A new
complaint or declaration should have been filed. This was
not done. As there was thus no declaration for the defendant to answer, there was no jurisdiction, and the action
should have been dismissed on the defendant's motion.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. WEIDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. The fly-leaf of the ledger purported to contain an abstract of inventories for several years. The witness, Joseph
Weide, who made the abstract, stated that the entries on the
fly-leaf were all made July, 1866, and were an abstract from
inventories for several years prior to the fire. The witness
did not state that he made these inventories nor that he knew
them to be correct. It follows, therefore, that this fly-leaf
was a mere abstract from inventories for several years, not
produced and not known to be correct, and only a partial
copy of such inventories, and not made at the date of the
transaction. They were but the declarations of a party in
his own behalf; incompetent and immaterial, and we urge
the same objections to the admission of the day-books and
ledger.
Messrs. Peckham and Allis, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
As the first question raised. If there was any irregularity
in not filing a new complaint or declaration, it was too late,
after the defendant had taken issue upon the complaint, to
take advantage of it. The question, however, whether a
new complaint, or declaration, should have been filed on a
removal of the cause from a State court, is one of practice,
and not the subject for which error will lie.
As to the second question, the admissibility of the evidence received by the court. There can be no doubt but the
day-books and ledger, the entries in which were testified to
be correct by the persons who made them, were properly
admitted. They would not have been evidence, per se, but
with the testimony accompanying them all objections were
removed.*
So, in respect to the memorandum on the fly-leaf of the
ledger. It was made by one of the witnesses, taken from
inventories, present at the time it was made, but which had
been subsequently destroyed by the fire. Those inventories,
if they had been in existence, would have been the best eviWood v. Ambler, 4 Selden, 170.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. WEIDE.
Opinion of the court.

dence, and, unless their loss was accounted for, must have
been produced. But, being lost, parol evidence of their contents was admissible, as secondary evidence, and so was the
memorandum taken from them, for the like reason. As we
understand the evidence in the case, the correctness of the
entry was testified to. The witness was cross-examined,
among other things, as to the correctness of it. The testimony is not given, but, if the evidence of the witness had
not been satisfactory, it should have been placed upon the
record.

In Merrill v. The Ithaca and Owego Railroad Company,* it
was held that when original entries are produced, and the
person who made them, and knew them at the time to be
true, testified that he made the entries, and that he believed
them to be true, although at the time of testifying he had
no recollection of the facts set forth in the entries, such evidence is admissible, as primafacie evidence for the jury. In
this case, Mr. Justice Cowan, who delivered the opinion of
the court, examined most of the authorities, English and
American, on the subject. The same doctrine is also sustained by the case of Guy v. Mead.t
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error is mistaken
in supposing that the witness Joseph Weide did not testify
to the correctness of the facts stated in the memorandum.
As already stated, this very point was made the subject of
cross-examination, and, if the witness failed to testify to it,
the fact should have been set forth in the record, as it was
most material for the defendant. The witness had stated on
his examination-in-chief, that he made the abstract in July,
1866, from the inventories for several years previous to the
fire. Nothing else being shown, the inference is that it was
correctly made: hence the cross-examination on this point
to show the contrary. We think that the memorandum was
properly admitted, and that the judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

*16

Wiendell, 586.

1 22 New York, 465-6.

