DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF TtlE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

NEALE V. INEALES.

1. In the absence of obligatory rules of court to the contrary, a court of
equity, after a cause has been heard and a case for relief made out, but
not the case disclosed by the bill, has power to allow an amendment of
the pleadings on terms that the party not in fault has no reasonable
ground to object to.
2. And this amendment will be allowed on a bill for specific performance,
where the subject-matter and general purpose of both bills is the same,
and the contract, consideration, promise, and acts of part performance,
stated in the amended bill, are stated with sufficient precision, and are
supported by proofs, taken under the original bill, which entitle the
complainants to the relief which they seek.
8. Equity protects a parol gift of land equally with a parol agreement to sell
it, if accompanied by possession, and the donee, induced by the promise
to give it, has made valuable improvements on the property. And this
is particularly true where the donor stipulates that the expenditure
shall be made, and by doing this makes it the consideration or condition
of the gift.
4. The principle applied in the case of an antenuptial parol promise, by a
father, to give to a lady about to marry his son (an improvident person),
a lot of ground, she promising at the time to lay out her own money in
building a house upon it, for the benefit of herself and family; and
where possession was delivered and the house was so built, but the father
refused to convey the lot.
5. In case of an alleged contract, by a father, of this kind, reasonable certainty as to the fact and terms of it is all that equity requires.
VOL. IX.

1

( 1 )

NEALE V.

NEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. The breach of such a contract is not to be compensated by damages, nor
is the purpose of the contract so answered. It is a case for specific performance.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
Benjamin Neale and wife filed a bill in the court just
named, against John E. Neale, father of the said Benjamin,
stating that, he the father, was, in 1858, owner of lots Nos.
16 and 18 in Washington; that at the time mentioned, he,
the son, one of the complainants, was seeking the hand of
Mary Hamilton, the other complainant, and his now wife, in
marriage; that this intended marriage met with the approval
and encouragement of the father, who, in promotion thereof,
and as an inducement thereto, promised and agreed that if
said marriage should be consummated, he would, in consideration thereof, convey one, or a part of one, of the lots
owned by him to his son, and Mary, his intended wife, or to
one of them, in fee, to the end that with money then belonging
to, or expected to belong to the intended wife, they might erect
thereon a dwelling-house for their habitation and home; that
confiding in the promise so made, and influenced thereby, and
partly in consideration thereof, the said Benjamin and Mary
did intermarry in September, 1858; that at or immediately
after the marriage, the said father, mindful of 'the promise he
had made, and with reference thereto, declared that he had
given to his daughter-in-law, Mary, a lot in Washington on
which to erect a dwelling-house for herself; that shortly after
the marriage, and in part performance of his agreement, he
put his son and daughter, the complainants, in possession of
the unimproved part of lot No. 18, that they accepted the
possession, and, with the consent of the father, erected thereon, with money belonging to the said Mary, and which was
her separate estate, a dwelling-house, at the cost of $5000;
that the said Mary consented to this application of the money
belonging to her, cheerfully, because it was understood between herself and her husband that the said ground, with
the house, was to be conveyed to her and her heirs, or in
trust for her and their use; that, after the house was erected,

Dec. 1869.]

NEALE V. NEALES.
Statement of the case.

the complainants, Mary and Benjamin, took possession of it,
with the knowledge and full approval of the father, who
lived next door, and had been cognizant of the erection, and
in part superintended it; and with his knowledge and approval, rented it to a Mrs. Degges; that the daughter-in-law
received arid applied the rents to her own uses; and that
during the erection of said house, and after its completion,
the father often avowed his intention to execute and deliver
a deed of the lot and premises to his dauglter-in-law, in accordance with his promise.
The bill further stated that in 1861, whilst the said husband and wife, complainants in the case, were temporarily
absent from the city of Washington, the father, without
their consent, took possession of the house, and had continued to occupy it ever since, against the wishes of the
complainants; that even since taking possession of the house,
in the manner mentioned, he, the father, had promised to
execute a deed for the property to his daughter-in-law, but
had, when applied to, refused to make such deed; and the
bill charged that the dwelling-house and ground belonged in
equity to said daughter-in-law, and that she was entitled to
a conveyance thereof from the father, and to an account of
the rents and profits thereof since he took possession of the
same; and prayed that he might be accordingly ordered to
convey to the complainant, Mary, and her heirs, or to some
one in trust for her and their benefit, the said parcel of
ground and premises, and to render an account of the rents
during his occupancy.
The father in his answer admitted, that in 1858 he was
possessed as owner of the lots, and that the complainant,
Benjamin, was his son; but denied that he was desirous that
his son should be married to the said Mary and settled in
life, and promised to convey to the said Benjamin and Mary,
or either of them, the lot, if Auch marriage should be consummated; or that in consideration of any such promise on
his part such marriage did take place, or that in part performance of such promise he put the complainants in possession of such lot, or that confiding in such promise the

NEALE V. NEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

complainants did enter upon and take possession thereof and
proceed to erect a dwelling-house thereon, as was alleged in
the bill. le admitted that a dwelling-house worth about
$5000 was erected by the complainant, Benjamin, on the
ground; that he knew that the house was erected by the
said Benjamin, who, after its completion, held the same until
1861; and he admitted that in July, 1861, during the absence
of the complainants, he took possession of the house which
had been abandoned by its tenant, and had since occupied
it with his family.
The father denied further "that, after taking possession
he promised, as alleged, to convey the ground, or that he so
promised at any time," but admitted "that after the marriage
of complainants, and in 1859, when the complainant, Benjamin, was about to receive certain moneys belonging to his
wife from her guardian, he, the respondent, knowing that the
habits of the complainant,Benjamin, were intemperate, and wishing
to secure to his said wife and children the said moneys, and satisfied that the same would be in jeopardyifpaid over to complainant,
Benjamin, and by him used in business, consented, on the application of complainant, Benjamin, to give him lot No. 16 in
said square, provided he would allow the respondent, or his
wife's guardian, to build with the said moneys a dwellinghouse thereon, and provided that the said moneys should
not be paid into the hands of the complainant, Benjamin,
but should, for the said purpose, be applied and disbursed
by the respondent or by the said guardian; that the complainant, Benjamin, agreed to these terms, provided the said
described part of lot 18, instead of lot 16, was given; and
to this change that the respondent assented, subject to the
terms and conditions aforesaid; that under this agreement
the dwelling-house was begun, but that the said conditions
were wholly violated by the complainant, Benjamin, who,
without the knowledge or approbation of the respondent,
received the said moneys from his wife's said guardian, and
used the same in his own business, or otherwise, contrary to
the agreement, disposed of same." That the erection of the
house having progressed as far as the first story, his son in-.

Dec. 1869.]

NEALE V. NEALES.

Statement of the case.

formed him that he, the son, would be disgraced and ruined
if the work was stopped, and that he was without means to
proceed further; that he, the father, then borrowed from
one Mrs. Sears $2008, for which he gave his note, in which
his son joined, and that the note was secured by a deed of
trust upon said described portion of lot 18, that this loan was
paid over by him (the father) to the son, with the express agreement
that it should be devoted to the erection of said dwelling-house, and
should not be otherwise disposed of; but that the agreement
was violated, and the money used by the son in his business.
That this debt was one of those due when the son failed in
business, and was paid by him, the father; and the father
averred that he never intended to give any part of lot 18, save
upon the terms and conditions aforesaid, and that upon the
violation thereof be considered himself absolved from his said
promise, and more especially so, as his son was largely beyond
the value of the house indebted to him.
The testimony, which was marked by some temper, was
contradictory and conflicting; but the weight of it showed
that the father did encourage the marriage of his son with
Miss Hamilton, his now wife, one of the complainants. That
he did promise to give the lot in question to her, as a bridal
present, at the time and in furtherance of said marriage, it
being understood that a dwelling-house was to be built on it
with her money. And that with the father's consent, and
upon the faith of the promise made by him, a house was
erected on the lot with the wife's money. That the house
was, after its erection, rented out by the complainants as
their property, with the consent of the father, and that the
rents thereof were received by them and applied to the use
of the wife, with like consent, down to a certain time, when
the tenants, becoming alarmed at the threatened invasion of
the capital by the rebel army, abandoned the house, and
when the possession of the father took place; his son and
daughter-in-law being at the time in Maryland, from which
State the latter originally came.
That the allegation of debt from the son to the father was
not made out.

6

NEALE

v. NEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The father, however, set up and endeavored to show that
a part of the tmoney expended in the erection of the said
dwelling-house was not the money of his daughter-in-law,
but was, in reality, advanced by himself.
The evidence on this point showed that, the son having
received from his wife's trustee enough to build the house,
did not use it all in this way; but put about $2000 of it into his
business; that early in 1861 he failed, and made an assignment of his entire stock and effects, amounting to about
$23,000, to his father, the appellant, upon secret trusts. The
father testified that he himself paid the $2008 borrowed from
Mrs. Sears, from his own private funds; but the son testified,
and in this he seemed to be supported by documentary and
other evidence, that in making the assignment to his father,
he made it subject to the prior payment of certain confidential debts, among which plainly was this one of $2008, for
which the lot was mortgaged to Mrs. Sears; and that it was
paid out of the proceeds of the stock and effects assigned.
The cause being at issue and set down for hearing, was
heard in the first instance upon the original bill, answer, and
testimony taken thereunder, by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, and after it had been heard, and the
proceedings had been read and considered, the said court, of
its own motion, and without assigning any reason for their
action, "ordered that the complainants have leave to amend
their bill filed in the cause on payment of costs, the amendment to be filed on or before the 15th of November, 1866."
The case was accordingly heard on an amended bill,
which, instead of alleging that the father had promised to
give the sou or his wife the lot, alleged that he promised to
give the lot to the wife, it being understood that she would
allow her money to be expended in building upon it a dwell
ing-house for herself and her heirs. On the amended pleadings, and on substantially the original evidence, the case
was heard again, and a decree made that the father should
make a deed to a trustee of the house and lot, for the sole
use and benefit of his son's wife, freed from liability for the

Dec. 1869.]

NEALE

v.

NEALES.

Argument for the appellant.

son's debts, or those of any other husband; and that he
should account for the rents since the filing of the bill.
From that decree the case was now here on appeal.
Messrs. Davidge and P. Phillips,for the father, appellant in the
case, contended1. That after publication had passed, and the case had
been set down for hearing, the bill could not be amended in
any other respect than by making new parties. That here
the original bill alleged that possession was given to both
husband and wife, and accepted by both, and the house
erected by the husband with moneys which had been reduced into possession by him; that the whole scheme of it
was for the recovery of property in which a married woman
might have an interest subject to the marital rights of her
husband, whereas the amended bill set up a claim adverse
to said marital rights; that this changed the framework of
the bill, and made a new case.
2. That to take a case out of the statute of frauds upon
the ground of part performance, it was indispensable, not
only to show that there was some contract, but to show a
contract, clear, definite, and unequivocal in all its terms;
that here the terms, as set out in the original bill, were to
give and convey, in consideration of the marriage of the
complainants, to both of them, or one or the other of them,
one or part of one of the lots whereof defendant was seized,
to the end that with money then belonging or expected to
belong to the oratrix, they might erect thereon a dwellinghouse for their habitation and home. How could such a
contract be specifically performed? Here were three distinct and inconsistent contracts averred in the bill, and each
alleged to have been made in reference to real estate, but to
what real estate was left wholly uncertain by the contract.
If the contracts were to be regarded as in the alternative,
which was not alleged, to which of the three parties belonged
the election as to how it should be.executed, and when was
that election to be exercised ?*
S ee Cox v. Cox, 26 Pennsylvania State, 375.

NEALE

v.

NEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

That, independently of all other things, as a repayment of
whatever money of the wife had passed into the lot, would
make her whole, the case, if a case for anything, was one
for damages, and not for specific performance.
Messrs. Webb and Kennedy, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It would seem clear, from the manner in which the court
below, of its own motion, and without assigning any reasons
for this action, gave the complainants leave to amend their
bill, that on the original hearing it was satisfied that the
evidence made out a case for relief, but a case different from
the one stated in the bill; and, that as the pleadings must
correspond with the evidence, it was necessary either to dismiss the bill without prejudice, or to give the leave to amend.
The court adopted the latter alternative, doubtless, with a
view to save expense to the parties, and because such a
course could not, by any possibility, work any harm to the
defendant.
It is insisted that this proceeding was erroneous; that after

a cause has been heard, the power of allowing amendments
ceases, or if it exists at all, it cannot go so far as to authorize
a plaintiff to change the framework of his bill, and make an
entirely new case, although on the same subject-matter, as,
it is contended, was done in this instance under the leave
to amend.
This doctrine would deny to a court of equity the power
to grant amendments after the cause was heard and before
decree was passed, no matter how manifest it was that the
purposes of substantial justice required it, and would, if
sanctioned, frequently embarrass the court in its efforts to
adjust the proper mode and measure of relief. To accomplish the object for which a court of equity was created, it
has the power to adapt its proceedings to the exigency of
each particular case, but this power would very often be
ineffectual for the purpose, unless it also possessed the additional power, after a cause was heard and a case for relief

Dec. 1869.]

c

EALE V. NEALES.

Opinion of the court.

made out, but not the case disclosed by the bill, to allow an
alteration of the pleadings on terms, that the party not in
fault would have no reasonable ground to object to. That
the court has this power and can, upon hearing the cause,
if unable to do complete justice by reason of defective pleadings, permit amendments, both of bills and answers, is sustained by the authorities.*
Necessarily, in a Federal tribunal the matter of amendment
at this stage of the progress of a cause rests in the sound
discretion of the court. At an earlier stage, this discretion
is controlled by the rules of equity practice adopted by this
court, but not so upon the hearing, for there is no rule on
the subject of amendments applicable to a cause which has
advanced to this point. As, therefore, the leave to amend
in this instance was within the discretion of the court, we
will proceed to dispose of the case on its merits.
It is unnecessary, in the view we have taken of the power
of the court over amendments at the hearing, to discuss the
question, whether the amended bill is materially different
from the original bill. It is enough to know, if different,
that the subject-matter of both bills is the same, and that
the contract, consideration, promise, and acts of part performance, stated in the amended bill, are stated with sufficient precision, and, if supported 'by proof, entitle the complainants to the relief which they seek at the hands of a court
of equity. The statute of frauds requires a contract concerning real estate to be in writing, but courts of equity,
whether wisely or not it is too late now to inquire, have
stepped in and relaxed the rigidity of this rule, and hold
that a part performance removes the bar of the statute, on
the ground that it is a fraud for the vendor to insist on
the absence of a written instrument, when he had permitted
the contract to be partly executed. And equity protects a
parol gift of land, equally with a parol agreement to sell it,
if accompanied by possession, and the donee, induced by
* Mitford's Chancery Pleading, 326, 331; Story's Equity Pleading,
904 and 905; Daniel's Chancery Practice and Pleading, 463, 466; Smith v.
Babcock, 3 Sumner, 583; McArtee v. Engart, 13 Illinois, 242.

NlEALE

V. INEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the promise to give it, has made valuable improvements
on the property. And this is particularly true, where the
donor stipulates that the expenditure shall be made, and by
doing this makes it the consideration or condition of the
gift.*
Was this gift in question made to Mary H. Neale and her
children, and has the condition on which it was given been
performed so as to make it inequitable for the donor to escape
from his engagement? We do not propose to discuss the
evidence at length, in order to vindicate the conclusion we
have reached in regard to it. It is in many respects conflicting and contradictory, and it is to be regretted that the
contest over this property, like all contests between near relations, has elements of bitterness in it. It is enough to say,
for the purposes of this suit, that on the whole evidence it is
reasonably certain that John E. Neale agreed to give to
Mary Hamilton, who was about to marry his son, in furtherance of the marriage, the lot in controversy, for the benefit
of herself and children, and for a home for the family, if,
with her means, a suitable dwelling-house was erected on it,
and that this has been done. On no other theory of this
case are the undisputed facts reconcilable with the conduct
of the parties. There is no dispute that the husband, before
and after marriage, was of dissipated habits; that the father
knew it, and had but little confidence in his ability to manage
money with judgment, and was desirous that the property of
the wife should not be embarked in the husband's business.
What so natural as that a father, having a son of this character about to marry a lady of property, should wish to have
her property secured against the consequences of her husband's improvidence and dissipation. This could not be
done, as he had a lot to give on the occurrence of the marriage, by agreeing to give it to the son if he improved it with
his wife's means, because he might sell it and waste the
money, or become involved in debt and lose it in that way.
Indeed, we are assured from the father's own estimate of his
1 Leading Cases in Equity, American note to Lester v. Foxcroft, 626.

Dec. 1869.]

NEALE

v.

NEALES.

Opinion of the court.

son's character, he feared the happening of one or the other
of these events in case he donated the lot to the son, and, to
avoid placing his own gift and the wife's inheritance in equal
peril, he did what any other parent under like circumstances
would have done, gave the lot to the wife, so that, if improved by her, it would be safe at all times from the effects
of the husband's folly, and be a secure home for the family.
It is true, the declarations of the father on the subject, are,
literally taken, contradictory, but we place but little reliance
as evidence on his statements made to some witnesses, that
the gift was to the son, because they are in conflict with
statements frequently made at different times to other persons, that the gift was to the wife, and are inconsistent with
his conduct and motives fairly deducible from the other evidence in the case. Besides, in one sense, it is true the gift
was to the son, as it was for his benefit, and would not have
been made if he had remained single, and in this sense the
father doubtless meant his declarations on the subject to be
received.
As, therefore, the gift was to the wife, and in fee simple,
for a less estate would not secure the obj ect the father had in
view, it remains to be seen what was done with the property
after the intermarriage of the parties. And here the character of the evidence, and its effect on the issue we are considering, cannot be misapprehended. It appears that shortly
after the marriage the house was built with money belonging
to the wife, and with the knowledge of the appellant, who
lived on an adjoining lot and acted, according to one witness,
as general supervisor in the matter. It further appears that
on the completion of the house the newly married couple
lived in it, for a season, and afterwards rented it, and that
during their absence on a casual visit to Maryland in 1861, it
having become temporarily vacant by the withdrawal of the
tenant, the appellant, without their knowledge and consent,
moved into it and still retains possession of it. It is impossible, in view of these facts, which prove that the condition
of the gift had been performed, to escape the conclusion that
the father at the outset was satisfied W*9tt4 arrangement,

12

NEALE

v. INEALES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and that his subsequent conduct, tending to show that he
had disavowed it, was an afterthought.
It is insisted that a part of the money used in building the
house was advanced by the father, who, in conjunction with
the son, borrowed it from Mrs. Sears, and that, therefore, the
consideration, pro tanto, for the gift has failed. It is clear
that the husband received from the wife's guardian more
money than was required to build the house, and had agreed
with her to devote enough of it to this purpose, but, instead
of doing this, unfortunately, he employed a portion of it in
his store, which rendered necessary the Sears loan. This
loan, secured by the father on the property in controversy,
stood on the books of the son as a confidential debt due his
wife, and when he failed and assigned his property, he
recognized it as such and preferred it over all other debts.
There was certainly nothing wrong in this provision, which
relieved the property of the wife of an incumbrance created
because the husband had misappropriated her money, and,
as the father accepted the trust under the assignment, with
this debt thus preferred, and at the same time received sufficient property to p'y it, it is hard to see wherein he has
cause of complaint in this matter, or how he can truthfully
say he paid any part of the money that went into the house.
In any proper sense the house was built with the wife's
money, and equity will give her the benefit of it in this controversy with the father.
As before remarked, the case as stated is made out with
reasonable certainty, which is all that is required.* Any
other degree of certainty in a case of this character is unattainable.
Damages will not compensate for the breach of this contract, nor answer the intenition of the parties to it, and a
specific performance is therefore essential to the complete
ends of justice.
DECREE AFFIRMED.
1 Leading Cases in Equity, American note to Lester v. Foxcroft, supra;

Mundy v. Jollifle, 5 Mylne & Craig, p. 177.

