OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

and producing a new and useful result, may be within the protection of the Federal statute, and entitle the inventor to a
patent for his discovery.
We are of opinion that Golding's method was a substantial
improvement of this character, independently of particular
mechanisms for performing it, and the patent in suit is valid
as exhibiting a process of a new and useful kind.
As to the infringement, little or no question was made in case
No. 606. In case No. 66 the Circuit Court held that there was
some evidence of infringement, enough at least to warrant the
decree sustaining the patent and awarding an accounting.
With this conclusion we agree. It follows that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (No. 66) should
be reversed and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit (No. 606) should be affirmed, and the cases remanded to the Circuit Courts of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the Northern District
of Ohio, respectively, for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
Decrees accordingly.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
INFORMATION IN

No. 5, Original.

CONTEMPT.

Argued March 2, 3, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

The court, having already held, 203 U. S. 563, that the information
sufficiently set forth a contempt of the court to punish which the
court has jurisdiction, now finds on the testimony taken under its
direction that certain of the defendants named were guilty of the
contempt as charged and directs that attachments issue against
them, and that the defendants not found guilty be discharged.
Where a riot and the lawless acts of those engaged therein are the
direct result of opposition to the administration of the law by this

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

court, those who defy its mandate and participate in, or who knowingly fail to take the proper means within their official power and
duty to prevent, acts of violence having for their object to, and which
do, defeat the action of this court are guilty of, and must be punished for, contempt.
One, who after conviction by the state court has applied to the Federal court for his release on habeas corpus on the ground that he was
denied due process of law is remanded by the Federal court to the
custody of the sheriff to be detained for a specified time in which to
enable him to prosecute an appeal to this court, is held under ยง 766,
Rev. Stat., as a Federal prisoner and the sheriff is accountable to
the Federal courts; and, to the extent of his power and the means
under his control, he must exercise due diligence and reasonable
efforts to protect the prisoner from mob violence, and if, after this
court has granted an appeal, he negligently fails in his duty in this
behalf, he is guilty of contempt.
Knowledge of an allowance by this court of an appeal and a stay of
proceedings renders those who defy the mandate of the court and
so conduct themselves as willfully to defeat the administration of
the law liable for contempt.
This court having allowed an appeal from an order of a Circuit Court
discharging a writ of habeas corpus and remandihg the prisoner to
the custody of the sheriff to be held for a specified period for prosecution of the appeal, the sheriff and his deputies and the jailer, who
had knowledge of such allowance of appeal and also of an intense
feeling in the neighborhood against the prisoner which on previous
occasions had threatened his safety, were bound to use all means
within their power to protect him, and failure on their part to take
any precautions whatever to prevent the seizure and killing of the
prisoner at the hand of a mob attacking the jail while in a defenseless
condition was, under the circumstances of this case, willful negligence, and disregard of duty to, and contempt of, this court; and so
held as to the sheriff of Hamilton County, Tennessee, and his deputy
and the jailer, in connection with the lynching on March, 19, 1906,
of Ed Johnson by a mob after this court had allowed his appeal
from an order refusing relief on habeas corpus.
Those of a mob who attack a state jail and lynch a person held therein
as a Federal prisoner under an order of this court of which they have
had notice are guilty of contempt of this court.
THE facts, which involve the lynching of a person held in
the custody of a sheriff under an order of the Federal court

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

214 U. S.

and after an appeal had been allowed by this court from an
order of the United States Circuit Court denying his petition
for habeas corpus, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Attorney General Bonaparte, and Mr. Solicitor-General
Hoyt, with whom Mr. Edwin W. Lawrence, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, was on the brief for the United
States:
This is an information in contempt filed by the Attorney
General of the United States charging the defendants with
contempt of this court in lynching the negro Ed Johnson at
Chattanooga on March 19, 1906, on the ground that he was
at that time a prisoner in the jail under order of this court
and that the lynching was in direct defiance of the known order of this court and to prevent the administration of the law
by it.
The information appears at length, pages 439-444, post.
Certain preliminary questions of law were raised by defendants and passed upon by this court, 203 U. S. 563. It
was there held that the complaint sufficiently set forth a contempt of this court; that it was immaterial for the purposes
of this proceeding whether or not the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the habeas corpus proceedings or whether this court
had jurisdiction to entertain the appeal; and that the answers
of the defendants under oath disavowing intent did not purge
them. This decision removes from the case all questions of
law except those as to the admission of evidence. The question now before the court is one of fact: Has the United
States in the evidence, which has been taken by the commissioner under order of this court, proved the allegations of the
information? Most of those allegations are established by
agreement I or undisputed evidence. The only issues are:
(1) Were the sheriff and his deputies informed and did they
have every reason to believe that an attempt would be made
1 This

agreement appears at length at page 472, post.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for the United States

in the evening of March 19, by a mob to break into, and take
Johnson from, the jail for the purpose of lynching him? (2)
Did the sheriff and his deputies commit acts and do things
manifesting a purpose and disposition on their part to render
it less difficult and less dangerous for the mob to lynch Johnson and aid and abet the mob? (3) Were defendants, excepting Shipp and Gibson, members of the mob which lynched
Johnson, or did they participate in the conspiracy? (4) Did
defendants in the things they did intend to show contempt
of the order of this court and to prevent it from hearing Johnson's appeal? 1
The information alleges that the acts of the defendants were
done with intent to show their contempt and utter disregard
for the order of this court, and in order to prevent this court
from hearing the appeal of Johnson then under condemnation
of death and who had been remanded by the Circuit Court to
the custody of the sheriff pending the action of this court
which had granted the appeal. In delivering the opinion upon
the hearing of the preliminary questions of law, 203 U. S. 563,
Mr. Justice Holmes said:
"If the presence and acts should be proven, there would be
little room for the disavowal of intent.

.

.

.

It may be

found that what created the mob and led to the crime was the
unwillingness of its members to submit to the delay required
for the appeal. From that to the intent to prevent that delay
and the hearing of the appeal is a short step."
Intent is best proved, and in many cases can only be proved,
by acts. If the acts with which defendants are charged have
been proven, it needs no argument to demonstrate that defendants intended to prevent this court hearing Johnson's
appeal and to delay its mandate. It has already been shown
that the reason for the mob's action was fear of the law's delay and the unwillingness of the sheriff, his deputies, and the
members of the mob to submit to it. The intent to commit
1The Government's brief then reviews the testimony at length.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

214 U. S.

a contempt of this court was necessarily present in the acts of
the defendants.
This proceeding is unique in the history of courts.
Its importance cannot be overestimated. Lynchings have
occurred in defiance of state laws and state courts without
attempt, or at most with only desultory attempt, to punish
the lynchers. Perpetrators of such crimes have heretofore
been censured only by public opinion; courts have remained
silent. Powerful as such opinion always is, severe as it has
been in its rebuke of such deeds, it has been inadequate to
check these outbreaks of lawlessness. Only recently lynchings
became so numerous that the whole country was aroused to
earnest discussion of mob violence and a remedy for it. It is
indeed useless to seek relief unless the judiciary can punish
those who snatch and kill the men it has imprisoned. The
arm of justice fetters men for years. It strikes death to the
murderer. It can take property and life. Must it confess it
is too weak to protect those whom it has confined? The arm
can destroy. Can it not protect? If the life of one whom the
law has taken into its custody is at the mercy of a mob the
administration of justice becomes a mockery.
When this court granted a stay of execution upon application of Johnson, it became its duty to protect him until his
case should be disposed of. It matters not with what crime
he was charged. It is immaterial what the evidence was at
the trial. Sentenced to death, Johnson came into this court
alleging that his constitutional rights had been invaded in the
trial of his case, and upon this the Supreme Court said he had
a right to be, and would be, heard. From that moment until
his case should be decided, he was under the protection of this
court. And when its mandate, issued for his protection, is
defied, punishment of those guilty of such contempt must be
certain and severe.
Never in its history has an order of this court been disobeyed
with impunity. A few attempts to disregard its decrees have
been made, but always without ultimate avail. In 1779 the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Continental Congress, through its Standing Committee of Appeals in Cases of Capture, reversed the judgment of the Court
of Admiralty of the State of Pennsylvania and made an award
in favor of Olmstead, a claimant, in a prize case. The State
resisted enforcement of the decree and Congress yielded. Olinstead thus found the decision of the appellate tribunal in his
favor useless to him. With the adoption of the Constitution
the jurisdiction of appeals formerly exercised by the Continental Congress became vested in this court and in 1808
Olmstead sought redress here in the same matter. United
States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115. In one of his powerful opinions the great Chief Justice made it clear that the court's decrees in favor of Olmstead must be obeyed. Nevertheless the
State for a time defied the order. This resistance, however,
was unable to withstand the unswerving determination of this
court and finally disappeared. Members and officers of the
state militia who had interfered with execution of the decrees
were tried and sentenced to fine and imprisonment. This court
then declared and established a supremacy which has ever
since been maintained and which will always be a priceless
heritage to the American people.
In the controversy between the State of Georgia and the
Cherokee Indians, which came before this court in Worcester
v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, the State refused to release a prisoner
in obedience to a direction of this court. Although the National Executive declined to aid in requiring obedience, after
some months the State withdrew opposition and again the
supremacy of this court was recognized.
In the history of the case of Ableman v. Booth, 21 Howard,
506, we for a third time find evidence of a State arraying itself
against this court. Officers and courts of the State of Wisconsin, contrary to the decision of this court, insisted that the
fugitive-slave law was unconstitutional, and resisted its enforcement. But the outcome was the same. Finality of decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States was declared, and obedience to its order was compelled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant Shipp.

214 U. S.

It is not surprising that in the early history of this country,
when the jurisdictions of the Federal and the state governments were not clearly defined or well understood, States
should have resisted the orders of this court. But it is remarkable that individuals should now undertake to defy the
mandate of this great tribunal.
Justice is at an end when orders of the highest and most
powerful court in the land are set at naught. Obedience to
its mandates is essential to our institutions. Contempts such
as this strike down the supremacy of law and order and undermine the foundations of our Government. Recurrence of such
acts must be prevented. The commission of the offense has
been established, and punishment should be imposed in accordance with its gravity.
Mr. James J. Lynch and Mr. Moses H. Clift, with whom
Mr. Judson Harmon, Mr. Robert Pritchard, Mr. William D.
Spears and Mr. Robert B. Cooke were on the brief, for defendant Shipp:
The testimony shows that Sheriff Shipp did not conspire,
aid or abet the lynchers and did not fail in his duty to take
proper precautions to guard him.
It is alleged in the information that the prisoner had been
heavily guarded until the night of the lynching and that
the guards were purposely withdrawn in order to permit
the lynching. The record shows that the jail had not been
guarded with extra guards after Johnson's conviction on
February 9. During the time he had remained in the jail
after his return from Knoxville, there had been no extra
guard at the jail.
In their brief, counsel for the Government seem to bring
a wholesale indictment against the whole citizenship of Chattanooga and Hamilton County. The undisputed testimony
of dozens of witnesses is swept aside by the simple announcement that it is absurd and ridiculous. The testimony of grayhaired ministers, of veteran physicians, of merchants, inanu-

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant Shipp.

facturers, and officials, is all treated in the same manner. To
all of these, counsel for the Government say:
"It is absurd for the defendants and their witnesses to say
that the community was in a state of peaceful repose on
March 19 or preceding days. It is idle for them to say that
they did not apprehend mob violence to Johnson."
And yet this fact is testified to by numerous witnesses for
the Government and denied by no witness.
Judge McReynolds and Attorney-General Whittaker are
also severely criticised by counsel for the Government. Just
why, it is hard to understand. These gentlemen first sounded
the alarm on the night of the lynching. Walking the streets
about nine o'clock and noticing a suspicious gathering at the
jail, they went to the office of the Chattanooga Times and
notified the editor and reporters of what was going on-called
the sheriff and requested him to go to the relief of the prisoner
-'phoned to the office of the chief of police-and, in fact,
did everything that could have reasonably been expected of
any citizen under the circumstances.
Judge McReynolds treated Johnson with every consideration throughout the whole proceeding. He appointed able
counsel to defend him, and after his conviction, appointed a
committee of other able counsel to confer with his attorneys
and render such assistance and advice as the case demanded.
When counsel were appointed and before Johnson was tried,
Judge McReynolds and the Attorney-General had the sheriff
submit to the counsel appointed to defend Johnson all of
the evidence the State had against the accused and also give
Johnson's counsel the names of the witnesses for the Statea consideration for the defendant seldom, if ever before,
shown in the criminal courts of this State.
After Johnson was lynched, Judge McReynolds delivered
a strong charge to the grand jury, instructing that body to
indict all those engaged in the lynching. Both he and Attorney-General Whittaker did everything possible to procure
indictments. That the grand jury failed to indict any of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant Shipp.

214 U. S.

the lynchers is not strange in view of the difficulty that the
Government, with all of its agents and detectives, have had
in establishing the identity of those engaged in the lynching.
These splendid officials need no defense at our hands. But
it is quite a coincidence that counsel for the Government in
their brief, criticise most severely those who did the most to
avoid the lynching of Johnson.
As before stated, it is possible that Captain Shipp acted
with poor judgment on the night of the lynching. It is easy
to see now that he should have had the jail guarded and
should have been prepared for a mob. But if he had done
so, he would have been wiser and would have shown more
foresight than any other citizen of Chattanooga.
It is easy to see now, looking back over events as they
occurred on that night, that Captain Shipp, instead of going to
the jail, should have gone to police headquarters or the
armory, where the militia were drilling, and organized a
posse. It must be remembered, however, that Captain Shipp
did not have time to carefully consider the situation and
coolly decide the best course to pursue. He was called up
in the night and told by the prosecuting attorney that he
should go at once to the jail-the Attorney-General showed
just as poor judgment as did Captain Shipp. The AttorneyGeneral was in conference with several other gentlemen, including the Criminal Judge, and in requesting the sheriff to
go at once to the jail, he (the Attorney-General) spoke not
only for himself, but for the other gentlemen present, showing
that in the excitement of the moment, all of them were guilty
of the same error of judgment that Captain Shipp was.
The testimony heretofore cited shows that Mr. Spurloek,
who was with the judge and Attorney-General, after thinking the matter over, concluded that it would be foolish and,
perhaps, dangerous, for the sheriff to rush into the jail alone,
and knowing Captain Shipp's temperament, he knew he would
attempt to do this. For this reason, they attempted to intercept the sheriff, but failed to do so.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant Shipp.

Certainly Captain Shipp cannot be convicted for contempt
of this court simply because in the performance of his duties,
he exercised bad judgment. He says, himself, that if he had
the thing to go over again he, perhaps, would know better
what to do, and would act differently, but at that time he
acted on the spur of the moment and had gone to the jail for
the purpose of seeing what the trouble was and to do what
he could to protect the prisoner.
Captain Shipp denied, in his testimony, all the charges in
the information with reference to a conspiracy with those
engaged in the lynching. He denied any intention to aid or
abet, in any way, those engaged in the killing of Johnson.
He denied that he anticipated or had any reason to anticipate or expect a mob on the night of March 19. He insisted
that he had the very greatest respect for this honorable
court and had done no act, and omitted no duty, from which
a contrary conclusion could be drawn.
Captain Shipp has lived in Chattanooga since 1874. During that time he has been engaged in various business enterprises. During the time he has lived in Chattanooga he has
been connected with various public affairs in that city. He
was a Confederate soldier, and has, for many years, been a
member of the Confederate Veterans' organization, and is
quartermaster general of the entire organization. He was
on the staff of the late Gen. John B. Gordon and the late
Gen. Stephen D. Lee. He has been a Mason for over forty
years and a member of numerous other secret societies. He
was also tax assessor for Hamilton County, Tennessee, before elected to the position of sheriff. His splendid character is testified to by every witness whose testimony has been
referred to in this brief. Old men and young men, political
friends and political adversaries, ministers of all denominations, veterans of the Civil War who wore the blue and who
wore the gray, men of all classes and all persuasions who
have known Captain Shipp during his long life in Chattanooga,
all, in one voice, say to this court that he is a truthful, law-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant Galloway.

214 U. S.

abiding, honorable gentleman. Can this court say that a
man with such a character and such a record, would suddenly, without any motive whatever, betray his trust, sacrifice the life of a prisoner in his keeping, become a perjurer
and a murderer, in order to show his contempt and disregard
for the orders of this, the highest and greatest court in the
"
world?
Mr. James J. Lynch and Mr. Robert B. Cooke, with whom
Mr. William D. Spears was on the brief, for defendant Gibson:
The statement of the defendant as to what occurred on
the night of the lynching is told in an honest, candid manner,
and we submit that his statement is entitled to be believed.
The mob came to the jail and surprised him between 8:30
and 9 o'clock-battered down the door leading to upstairs
where the defendant was at the time the mob arrived, and
forced him to surrender the keys. Many members of the
mob were armed, and they handled him roughly. He shows
that he had no avenue of escape after the mob arrived, and
no chance to communicate with the outside world. He was
an old man 62 years old, and a veteran of the Civil War,
and numerous witnesses testify to his good character.
Mr. Robert B. Cooke and Mr. Moses H. Clift for defendant
Galloway: 1
It is clear from the evidence that the defendant Galloway
was not with the crowd or mob that lynched Johnson, and
that when we take into consideration the manner in which
this defendant exposed himself and his life for the protection
and to prevent the mobbing of Johnson theretofore, as is
shown by the record in this ease, it seems preposterous that
the able attorneys for the Government should ask this honorable court to convict or hold this defendant to be in contempt
of the orders of this honorable court, on the testimony of
witnesses who impeach themselves so thoroughly and so ef' The rule was discharged as to Galloway.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant Ward.

fectively that no one, much less this honorable court, could
give any credence to their statements. The evidence establishes, beyond question, the fact that Galloway was not only
not with the mob or about the jail, or at the bridge at the
time the lynching occurred, but, as shown by the proof, was,
at the time the lynching occurred, in the Eagle Club rooms on
Market street and knew nothing of the mob until after the
lynching occurred.
This honorable court will look into the conduct and the
resistance made by this courageous, faithful officer in the defense of the lives of prisoners in his hands. It will take into
consideration all the testimony as presented in the record,
and when it does this, we feel confident that this honorable
court will discharge this faithful officer, as well as all the officers, including the sheriff and each of his deputies, and commend their faithfulness as officers in the discharge of their
duty.
Mr. G. W. Chamlee, with whom Mr. J. A. Hood, Mr. W. H.
Cummings and Mr. W. F. Chamlee were on the brief, for defendant Ward :1
The Government has failed to make out its case against
the defendant Ward, who is entitled to his discharge because the proof fails to show that he had any connection
whatever with the lynching, and also fails to show that he
had any knowledge of the fact that this honorable court had
acquired jurisdiction of the case of Johnson v. Tennessee,
and in the absence of such information he could not be
guilty of contempt of this honorable court. To make the
defendant guilty of a contempt it is necessary that he should
have in his mind at the time of the commission of the unlawful act, knowledge that this honorable court had taken
jurisdiction of the Johnson case and his participation either
by aiding or abetting in the alleged lynching should be
1The rule was discharged as to Ward.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant Williams.

214 U. S.

prompted by a spirit of disrespect for its orders. On both
of these questions the Government has wholly failed to make
out its case.
The evidence shows that at the very hour of the lynching
the defendant was at Barnes' saloon under the influence of
strong liquor to such an extent that the witnesses say he was
drunk, and probably asleep.
This defendant is an innocent man. The proof against him
is in the testimony alone of one Stonecipher who has been successfully impeached and this defendant has proven a satisfactory alibi and lack of knowledge of the jurisdiction of this
court over the Johnson case.
Mr. G. W. Chamlee, with whom Mr. W. H. Cummings and
Mr. W. F. Chamlee were on the brief, for defendant Williams:
There is enough in this record to show beyond any question
or controversy that Mr. William's record for truth and veracity
is good and that he is entitled to full faith and credit on his
oath in a court of justice.
The Government has failed to show that Mr. Williams did
anything in the world in aiding or assisting in the lynching
of Ed Johnson. It has failed to show that he had any knowledge that this honorable court had acquired jurisdiction of
the case of Johnson v. Tennessee. His answer denies every
material allegation made against him in the information filed
by the Attorney-General.
Counsel for the Government in the brief for the Government leave the impression that Mr. Ware swears positively
that Mr. Williams was the man that shot five bullets into
the dead body of Johnson as it lay on the county bridge.
This is shown to be clearly erroneous, and a careful reading
of Mr. Ware's testimony does not sustain the contention of
counsel for the Government. It is most earnestly insisted
that the proof shows that Mr. Williams was simply present
as a spectator as were numbers of other people, but that he
took no part in the lynching and is not guilty in any manner

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendants Nolan, Justice, Padgett and Mayse.

or in any sense of the charges made and was in no way responsible for the death of Ed Johnson. It is, therefore, confidentily urged that the charge against Mr. Williams is not
proven and that he should be dismissed.
Mr. T. Pope Shepherd, with whom Mr. Lewis Shepherd
and Mr. Martin A. Fleming were on the brief, for defendants
Nolan, Justice,1 Padgett and Mayse:
These defendants are charged with being members of the
mob that lynched Johnson. They are not interested in the
details of the occurrence at the county jail and bridge on the
night of the lynching except to deny their presence and participation nor are they interested in the proof showing the
history of the Johnson case and the condition of public sentiment with reference thereto. The only question to be considered, so far as these defendants are concerned, is their
participation in the lynching.
Each one of the defendants filed an answer to the information denying his respective participation in the lynching
and showing where he was on this particular night.
While the defense of each is separate and distinct and will
be hereinafter treated separately there are some questions
that may properly be considered as applying to all alike and
will be treated in one discussion.
The Johnson case has been a famous case in and around
Chattanooga, Tennessee, from the time the crime was committed, until the present time. From the whole record it
will be seen and can properly be inferred that the facts connected with the case have been prominently in the minds of
the Chattanooga people at all times. Every step in the case
was watched with intense interest by almost every citizen and
the subject was, evidently, constantly under discussion during
the time from the arrest of Johnson to the night of the lynching. So in times of such great interest it is comparatively an
easy matter for a man to remember his actions and wherea-

'The rule was discharged as to Justice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants Nolan, Justice, Padgett and Mayse.

214 U. S.

bouts on that eventful night in the city of Chattanooga. At
any ordinary time, or upon any ordinary night where there is
nothing to particularly impress one's mind at that time or
later, it is usually a difficult matter, after a lapse of a few
weeks, to fully remember the occurrences of such a time or
with certainty to identify such time with particular occurrences. But it is different at times of extraordinary events,
whether such events are known at the time or ascertained
later. A report on the following morning of some extraordinary occurrences of interest to every one in a community
would have the result of recalling vividly to one's mind where
he was and what he had been doing at such time. It is therefore entirely reasonable that these defendants could give an
account of their actions on the night of March 19, 1906, when
Johnson was lynched. And it is also entirely reasonable that
their several actions could be identified with this particular
night.
Nolan denied his presence and participation in the lynching
of Johnson, and showed where he was on that night during the
time of the lynching. He was at his place of business over
a mile from the county jail up to about 9:30 P. M., that he
then went to the saloon of his brother and remained there until
a little after 10 r. M. at which time the saloon was closed for
the night, that he then went to his home near by and there
remained until the following morning. This is supported by
the testimony and contradicts the testimony to the contrary
that Nolan was in the crowd. Some of the Government's
witnesses testified that he was masked and others that he
was not. He was not fully identified, and the record of the
witnesses who testified that they saw him is bad.
Under a fair construction of all the evidence the Government
has failed to show Nolan's participation in the mob. His
alibi is well supported by competent proof and his defense
is sustained by the great weight of the evidence.
Defendant Justice denies that he was at the county jail

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

401

Argument for Defendants Nolan, Justice, Padgett and Mayse.

on the night of the lynching, or that he had any connection
with or knowledge of the mob or lynching of Johnson. On
that night he was at his home in St. Elmo several miles from
the jail, and a part of the time visiting at a neighbor's house.
In the brief counsel for the Government first say that it
must be remembered that this defendant was a member of
the first mob that tried to lynch Johnson.
Defendant was asked about this. He stated that he was
present as a spectator in company with such men as Judge

McReynolds, Attorney-General Whittaker and H. Clay Evans.
He was requested to act on a committee to examine the jail.
Later defendant made a speech advising the crowd to disperse.
Defendant is six feet one inch high and weighs from 215 to
236 pounds.
The man identified as Justice was evidently the leader of the
mob, but the parties must have been mistaken and one witness
says there was a man in the mob who did resemble Justice.
Defendants Padgett and Mayse answered denying their participation in the lynching. Padgett shows that he was at the
Stag Hotel during the evening of the day of the lynching.
Mayse shows that he was at home after about 6 o'clock P. M.
Neither knew anything of the lynching'until the next morning.
The witnesses as to the alibi testified in a straightforward,
intelligent manner. There is nothing so remarkable in their
testimony as to justify the statement in counsel's brief that
they are unworthy of belief. True, they are friends and associates of the defendant, but where could he get proof of his
whereabouts except from his associates? Each one gives a
reasonable account of his actions that night and a proper
reason for remembering the details. It is not quite fair to
charge that witnesses are unworthy of belief because, perchance, they have testified in favor of the opposite side in a
lawsuit. There should be some respectable evidence on which
to base such charge before it is justified.
The Government relies on the testimony of one Stonecipher.
vox,. ccxiv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants Nolan, Justice, Padgett and Mayse.

214 U. S.

There is no proof that these defendants were seen at the jail
that night. The case is based on certain statements and admission made by them to Stonecipher who says there was a
conversation before the lynching in which Padgett and Mayse
were expressing dissatisfaction with the course of the Johnson
case. There is nothing in this conversation to show that these
parties were intending or making preparations to lynch Johnson; and on the next day Stonecipher claims that he heard a
conversation between Padgett and another in which Padgett
admitted that he and Mayse were participants and Padgett admitted his complicity-all of which both Padgett and Mayse
denied-and so the witness Stonecipher stands alone and unsupported in his statements, and is contradicted by both
defendants and other testimony.
Padgett does not remember what was said except that he
did not state that he was a member of the mob. It is a remarkable proposition that a man would openly in a public
place to a mere acquaintance state that on the night before
he had committed murder. Stonecipher's story is highly unreasonable, and for that reason should be given less weight
than evidence of a reasonable nature.
Then again the nature of the conversation is such that a
court cannot afford to call it evidence. At the most it was
thoughtless, idle talk or as sometimes expressed as barroom
gossip. It cannot be considered as sufficient proof of murder.
If all that Stonecipher says is true and it should be considered as a confession, there is not a case made out for the
reason that defendants have shown by an abundance of competent proof that they did not participate in the mob. Under
the rule of first trying to make all the witnesses speak the
truth the innocence of defendants is consistent with the testimony of every witness.
Witnesses who have known Stonecipher since he was a boy
and know his reputation both in Chattanooga and in his former
Georgia home, unhesitatingly say that his reputation is bad
and that he is not entitled to credit on his oath.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Giving Stonecipher's testimony the most favorable light it
does not in any degree prove participation, nor overcome the
alibis set up and relied on by these defendants.
These cases are in effect criminal cases, and in weighing
the evidence the rules in criminal cases should prevail.
Whether the reasonable doubt rule should prevail or not
the court should require strong and convincing proof before
convicting these defendants and inflicting punishment. The
evidence should be stronger than a mere preponderance as in
civil cases. There is something more important than property
rights and consequently more strictness required. The freedom and liberty of a citizen should not be taken except on
the strongest and most convincing proof.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

This was an information filed by the Attorney-General of the
United States against Joseph F. Shipp and twenty-six other
defendants,1 which was dismissed as to eighteen of them and
heard as to defendants Shipp, Galloway, Gibson, Nolan, Williams, Justice, Padgett, Mayse and Ward.
The information charged, in substance, that February 11,
1906, Ed Johnson, a negro, was convicted of rape by the criminal court of Hamilton County, Tenn., held in Chattanooga,
and was sentenced to death; that on March 3, following, Johnson filed a petition for the writ of habeas corpus in the United
States Circuit Court, sitting in Tennessee, alleging that in the
trial he had been deprived of constitutional rights; that on
March 10 the petition was dismissed and the writ denied,
petitioner being remanded to the sheriff of Hamilton County
to be detained in his custody for ten days, in which to enable
petitioner to prosecute an appeal, and in default of such appeal
to be further proceeded with by the state court under its sentence; that on March 17 Mr. Justice Harlan, of the United
1 The information at length and names of all defendants appear at
page 439, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

States Supreme Court, allowed an appeal from the decision of
the Circuit Court, and on March 19 an order was made by the
Supreme Court allowing said appeal; that defendant Shipp,
sheriff of Hamilton County, then was at once notified by telegraph of said order, which stayed all proceedings against Johnson, and required Shipp to retain custody of Johnson pending
determination of the appeal; that before 6 o'clock in the evening of March 19 a full account of this action of the Supreme
Court was published and circulated in the evening papers in
the city of Chattanooga; that defendant Shipp was the sheriff
of Hamilton County and defendants Matthew Galloway and
Jeremiah Gibson, among others, were his deputies; that the
deputies as well as the sheriff were fully advised of the action
of the Supreme Court, and were informed and had every reason to believe, from current reports and rumors conveyed to
them, that an attempt would be made on the evening of the
nineteenth or early in the morning of the twentieth, by a mob
composed of a large number of armed men, to force an entrance into the county jail for the purpose of taking Johnson
therefrom and lynching him; that notwithstanding said information and said reports the sheriff withdrew from the jail
early in the evening of the nineteenth the usual and customary
guard, and left in charge thereof only the night jailer-defendant Gibson-and committed other acts and did other things
evincing a disposition on the part of said sheriff to render it
less difficult and less dangerous for the mob to prosecute and
carry into effect its unlawful design and purpose of lynching
Johnson; that about 9 o'clock in the evening of said March 19
defendants and others conspired to break into the jail for the
purpose of taking Johnson therefrom and lynching him, with
intent to show their contempt and disregard for the abovementioned order of this court, and prevent it from hearing
the appeal of Johnson; that pursuant to this conspiracy and
in order to show their contempt and disregard for said order
of this court, between 9 and 12 o'clock in the evening of said
March 19, at Chattanooga, Tenn., defendants, excepting Shipp

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court:,

and Gibson, assembled with others, broke into the jail, took
Johnson out by force, and lynched him; that Gibson was the
only officer at the jail when the mob broke in, and that while
the mob was in possession of the jail defendant Shipp arrived,
but made no effort to prevent the mob from taking Johnson
from the jail; that defendants Shipp and Gibson were in sympathy with the mob while pretending to perform their official
duty of protecting Johnson, and that they aided and abetted
the mob in prosecution and performance of the lynching; that
all of these acts were committed by defendants with the intent upon their part to utterly disregard the above-mentioned
order of this court and to prevent the court from hearing Johnson's appeal.
The answers on questions of fact consisted of a general denial and, except in the cases of Shipp, Gibson and Williams,
the setting up of an alibi by each defendant. Williams admits
that he was at the jail a short time before and at the time
Johnson was taken from it by the mob, and that he followed
the mob and witnessed the lynching, but denies participating
1
in the acts of the mob.
Certain preliminary questions of law were raised by defendants and passed upon by the court. 203 U. S. 563.2 It was
held that the complaint sufficiently set forth a contempt of
this court; that it was unnecessary for the purposes of this proceeding to determine whether or not the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the habeas corpus proceedings or whether this
court had jurisdiction to entertain the appeal, as those were
questions for this court to determine and for no other tribunal;
and that the answers of the defendants, under oath, disavowing intent did not purge them.
The case then came on to be heard on the question whether
the allegations of the information were made out.'
1 For

abstracts of answers of defendants, see page 447, post.

2 For opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes see page 457, post.
3 For order appointing commissioner to take testimony, etc., see
page 471, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

The following is a sufficient resumg of the facts admitted or
undisputed:
January 23, 1906, a rape was committed upon a white
woman in or near Chattanooga, Hamilton County, Tenn.
At that time and at all times hereinafter mentioned defendant Shipp was the duly elected, qualified and acting sheriff of
Hamilton County, Tenn., and as such sheriff had and exercised full charge and control of the county jail located in Chattanooga, and was the legal custodian under the laws of Tennessee of all persons duly committed in said county under the
laws of the State to confinement and imprisonment within the
jail, and the defendants Matthew Galloway and Jeremiah Gibson were duly appointed, qualified and acting deputy sheriffs
under Shipp.
January 25 Shipp and his deputies arrested Ed Johnson, a
negro, in or near Chattanooga, charged with the crime.
Late in the afternoon of the same day Johnson was, by order
of the judge of the state criminal court, taken by Sheriff Shipp
to Dayton and from there to Nashville, where he was kept
until the day of his trial, February 6. Johnson was removed
and kept away from Chattanooga during this period because
of fear that he would be lynched.
The night of January 25 a large mob attacked the jail at
Chattanooga, where Johnson was supposed to be confined.
Three of Shipp's deputies were at the jail, and, with the
assistance given them by the police, the chairman of the safety
committee, and others, prevented the taking of any prisoners
from the jail.
At the suggestion of the deputies the mob appointed a committee to go through the jail and satisfy itself that Johnson
was not there.
Even after this committee had reported that the persons
whom the mob sought were not in the jail, it was necessary to
use force to put the mob out of the jail yard.
The dangerous character of this committee and the mob and
their anger at not being able to find Johnson is shown by the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

testimony of the prosecuting officer for Hamilton County; the
judge of the criminal court of that county; and defendant Galloway.
One other night, about the same time, the officers thought
there was to be a mob. The militia was called out twice about
that time to protect the jail against a mob which sought to
take Johnson's life.
January 26 a special grand jury was convened, and the next
day indicted Johnson for the crime above referred to.
February 6 Johnson was brought to Chattanooga from
Nashville and his trial commenced that day in the criminal
court of Hamilton County. February 9 he was convicted and
sentenced to death.
The date of execution was originally fixed as March 13,
but on or about March 11 was changed by the governor to
March 20.
No appeal to the Supreme Court of the State was taken by
the lawyers appointed by the court to defend Johnson.
Two daily papers were published in Chattanooga-The
Times, a morning paper, and The News, an evening paper,
both having a large circulation. Three competent and leading
attorneys had been appointed by the court to defend Johnson,
and one of them made a statement, which was published in
The Chattanooga Times of February 10, as to the reasons why
an appeal was not prosecuted in Johnson's behalf. He depicts
the mental strain that he and his associates had been under,
and the weight of the burden of the responsibility upon them.
He says that when the jury brought in a verdict of guilty "we,
as the attorneys, had to settle the question whether the case
would be appealed to the Supreme Court." He asked the
trial judge to appoint three other lawyers to counsel and advise with them and help to share the responsibility, and three
well-known lawyers were designated, who met with the three
counsel for the petitioner and considered the matter.
"We discussed the recent mob uprising and the state of
unrest in the community. It was the judgment of all present

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

that the life of the defendant, even if the wrong man, could not
be saved; that an appeal would so inflame the public that the
jail would be attacked and perhaps other prisoners executed
by violence. In the opinion of all of us a case was presented
where the defendant, now that he had been convicted by a
jury, must die by the judgment of the law, or else, if his case
were appealed, he would die by the act of the uprising of the
people."
"In view of all the conditions, it was the unanimous vote
that the law ought to be allowed to take its course if Judge
McReynolds were satisfied with the verdict, and if he were to
approve it and pass judgment of death on it."
He then relates an interview had thereupon with the accused. His right of appeal was explained to him, "that the
Supreme Court met in September next; that an appeal would
stay the judgment until that time; that we did not see any reasonable ground to suppose that the Supreme Court would reverse the sentence, and that we feared an appeal would cause
mob violence against him."

"Without giving all that occurred at the jail, he said to us
that he did not want to die by a mob; that he would do as
we thought best. He said he would go over to the court house
and tell the judge that he did not have anything more to say
than that he was not the guilty man.
"I want the people to know that the foregoing facts moved
us to allow the law to take its course under the verdict of the
jury and the judgment of Judge McReynolds. Six lawyers
settled it in this way after the calmest reflection and under the
keenest sense of the great responsibility.
"In view of the awfulness of the crime committed, I beg
that the sheriff and every peace officer of Chattanooga and
Hamilton County will still try to get all possible further light,
and if any person anywhere knows anything whatever tending
to show or reflect light on either the guilt or innocence of the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant, I beg that such person make known all that he may
know to us or to Attorney-General Whittaker."
On the afternoon Johnson was convicted he was secretly
taken from Chattanooga to Knoxville because of fear of mob
violence to him.
From the time the crime was committed until after Johnson's trial the people of Chattanooga were greatly excited over
the crime and Johnson's alleged connection with it, and there
was great apprehension on the part of the people as well as the
officers that attempts would be made to lynch Johnson.
It was because of this intense excitement and the feeling
that speedy execution of Johnson might prevent his being
lynched that Johnson was so quickly indicted and tried.
While the trial was in progress extra deputies were sworn in
and an unusual number of guards were kept around the court
house and at the jail at night.
Guns to be used in protecting the jail against a mob were
purchased.
March 3 Johnson filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
in the United States Circuit Court for the Northern Division of
the Eastern District of Tennessee.
March 10, 1906, the petition was denied, the Circuit Court
ordering that Johnson be remanded to the custody of the sheriff of Hamilton County, Tenn., to be detained by him for ten
days in which to enable petitioner to prosecute an appeal from
said order, and in default of the prosecution of said appeal
within that time to be then further proceeded with under the
sentence.
This order was made public through the press.
Johnson was at Knoxville, where he had been kept since his
conviction, for hearing upon his petition, and was taken back
to Chattanooga, March 11.
Saturday, March 17, application was duly presented by Johnson to Mr. Justice Harlan of the Supreme Court of the United
States (Circuit Justice of the Sixth Circuit), at Washington,
asking that an appeal be allowed to that court from the order

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

of the Circuit Court, denying Johnson's petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. This appeal was allowed by Mr. Justice Harlan
on the same day.
March 18, The Chattanooga Times published notice that
application for said appeal had been made.
The same day Judge Clark, of the United States Circuit
Court, received a telegram from Mr. Justice Harlan, which
was communicated to Sheriff Shipp on the afternoon of that
day, that he had allowed appeal to accused in habeas corpus
case of Ed Johnson; that the transcript would be filed the next
day, and motion also be made by Johnson's counsel for formal
allowance of appeal by the Supreme Court.
March 19, The Chattanooga Times published news of the
allowance of the appeal by Mr. Justice Harlan, in which it
said, among other things:
"From these authorities it was learned that the granting of
an appeal in a case like this acted to supersede all process in
the state courts. No stay is necessary, according to the authorities, and the statute is self-operative. Pending a decision
of the appeal there can be no execution by any state authority."
March 19 an order was made by the United States Supreme
Court, allowing an appeal to that court from the final order of
the Circuit Court denying petition for writ of habeas corpus,
and directing that all proceedings against the appellant be
stayed, and that the custody of appellant be retained pending
the appeal.
About 1 o'clock in the afternoon of said March 19 the following telegram was delivered to a telegraph company for
transmittal to the addressee:
"Washington, March 19, 1906.
"To Sheriff of Hamilton County, Tenn., Chattanooga, Tenn.
"Supreme Court of United States has allowed Ed Johnson
appeal from Judge Clark's order, and directed all further proceedings stayed, and custody of Johnson retained pending

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appeal here. See Section 766, Revised Statutes of the United
States.
"JAMES

H.

McKENNEY,

"Clerk Supreme Court, U. S."
This was received by the telegraph office at Chattanooga
about 3.30 on the same afternoon and delivered between 4 and
5 o'clock on that afternoon.
About 2 o'clock on the afternoon of the nineteenth Judge McReynolds told Sheriff Shipp that the Supreme Court had
granted a stay in the Johnson case, and that thereafter Johnson was a Federal prisoner.
Between 2 and 4 of the afternoon of March 19 the following
telegram was received by Judge Clark, and by his secretary
communicated to Sheriff Shipp, at the jail, about 5 o'clock
that afternoon, with a copy of the statute therein referred to:
"Washington, D. C., March 19, 1906.
"Hon. C. D. Clark, United States Court, Chattanooga, Tenn.
"Court has just allowed appeal in Johnson's case, and ordered all further proceedings against him delayed and custody
retained pending appeal here. It will be well to call attention
of state officers immediately to Section 766 of Revised Statutes.
"JOHN

M.

HARLAN."

The statute referred to reads (including the proviso added
March 3, 1893):
"Pending the proceedings on appeal in the cases mentioned
in the three preceding sections and until final judgment
therein, and after final judgment of discharge, any proceedings against the person imprisoned or confined or restrained
of his liberty, in any State court, or by or under the authority
of any State, for any matter so heard and determined, or in
process of being heard and determined, under such writ of
habeas corpus, shall be deemed null and void.
"Provided, That no such appeal shall be had or allowed after

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

six months from the date of the judgment or order complained
of."
Shipp understood that thereupon Johnson was held as a
Federal prisoner.
There was published and circulated in Chattanooga, in the
evening paper published in that city, on March' 19, about 4
o'clock, an account of said action of the Supreme Court, under
the headlines, "An Appeal is Allowed. Ed Johnson Will Not
Hang To-morrow." This reads, in part:
"The gallows in the Hamilton County jail has again been
disappointed in the case of Ed Johnson, convicted by the state
courts of rape and sentenced to death. The hanging will not
take place to-morrow morning, as scheduled."
The news of the action of the court was also posted on a
newspaper bulletin.
After hearing of the stay Shipp says that he made no effort
and gave no orders to have deputies or others guard the jail,
but left the night jailer, defendant Gibson, there alone.
The county jail at Chattanooga, in which Johnson was confined on the nineteenth, consisted of four stories, two above
ground and two below ground. Entrance to the jail was on the
third floor, counting from the bottom. In the front part of
the building, on this third floor, was an office section. An iron
door led from this section into the jail proper; that is, the protected part of the building, where the prisoners were kept.
Johnson was confined on the top floor. To reach him from outside the jail it was necessary to go through the offices, through
the iron door between the offices and the jail proper, up a flight
of stairs, through a steel-barred door, right behind which was
a circular door consisting of heavy steel bars several inches
apart, which revolved so as to make a passage. Passing
through this circular door one came into a corridor around
which were cells having iron doors which could be locked. It
was in one of these cells that Johnson was confined.
The jail was located in a populous neighborhood and there
were houses around it.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the evening of the nineteenth a white male prisoner was
removed from the upper floor of the county jail in Chattanooga, leaving only Johnson and a white woman on that floor.
This same man had been removed in the same way at the
time of the first attempt to lynch Johnson.
About half-past 8 or 9 that night a number of men entered
the jail and went directly and without resistance to the door
leading to Johnson's corridor. There is a conflict of evidence
as to whether the door leading from the offices to the jail
proper was locked during the evening, but if it was locked
when the mob came it was easily broken down.
Gibson was the only officer there at the time, and he was on
the top floor with Johnson.
Keys were obtained from him without resistance, but, as
the lock on the door leading to the corridor where Johnson's
cell was located had been broken by a member of the mob, the
keys would not work.
The mob, with sledge and ax, then began to break the bolts
on the corridor door.
About twelve men were actively engaged in breaking down
the door and in all subsequent events of the lynching. Some
of these men were masked.
A crowd of spectators began to gather around the jail soon
after the mob reached it, and continued to gather in and
around the jail until Johnson was taken out. This crowd was
variously estimated from a few to 150 or more.
It took over an hour to break the bolts on the corridor door.
Two men then went through the circular door and in a few
minutes brought Johnson out with his arms tied with a rope.
When Johnson was thus brought out, the dozen men or so
composing the mob grabbed him.
This mob took Johnson from the jail to the county bridge
over the Tennessee River, which was about six blocks from
the jail.
Johnson was taken from the jail a little after 10 o'clock.
From the foregoing it is apparent that there was no inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

ference or attempted interference of any consequence with
the mob before it left the jail, and there was none after it left.
The crowd which had gathered around the jail followed the
mob down to the bridge.
When the bridge was reached the mob took Johnson a little
beyond an arc light, put a rope around his neck, threw it over
a beam, and swung him up.
At the bridge the mob actively engaged in lynching Johnson
were close to him and separated by a space from the crowd of
spectators.
The first time Johnson was swung up, the rope broke or
slipped and he fell. He was swung up a second time and shot.
After some shots were fired, Johnson again fell, and while lying
on the ground was again shot. It was about ten minutes after
the mob had reached the bridge until Johnson was killed.
It is apparent that a dangerous portion of the community
was seized with the awful thirst for blood which only killing
can quench, and that considerations of law and order were
swept away in the overwhelming flood. The mob was, however, willing at the first attempt to accept prompt administration of the death penalty adjudged at a trial conducted according to judicial forms, in lieu of execution by lawless violence,
but delay by appeal, or writ of error, or habeas corpus was not
to be tolerated.
Under then existing statutory provisions appeals might be
taken to this court from final decisions of the Circuit Courts
in habeas corpus in cases, among others, where the applicant
for the writ is alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation
of the Constitution or of some law or treaty of the United
States, and if the restraint was by any state court, or by or under the authority of any State, further proceedings could not
be had against him pending the appeal. Rev. Stat., ยงยง 763,
764, 766; Act of March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat. 437.
In this instance an appeal was granted by this court, and
proceedings specifically ordered to be stayed. The persons
who hung and shot this man were so impatient for his blood

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that they utterly disregarded the act of Congress as well as the
order of this court.
As heretofore stated, the defendants to the information remaining to be dealt with on the facts are Shipp, Galloway,
Gibson, Nolan, Williams, Justice, Padgett, Mayse and Ward.
Of these, Shipp was the sheriff and Galloway and Gibson two
of his deputies. The others are charged with active participation in the lynching. It is contended that the lynching was
not expected to occur on the nineteenth, and the evidence of
the United States District Judge, and some clergymen and
others was given to the effect that they had no such anticipation. The event showed that they were wrong, and it is plain
the danger might be very great and yet remain unperceived by
the adherents of order and peace.
It will be remembered that the crime was committed on
January 23, and Johnson was arrested January 25. That
night a mob attacked the jail in which he was supposed to be
and ascertained that he was not there. Johnson was kept in
Nashville from that day until his trial commenced, February 6.
On his conviction, February 9, he was taken away from Chattanooga and kept away until March 11, the day after his petition for habeas corpus was denied.

It must be admitted that intense feeling against Johnson
existed from the time of the commission of the crime until
after his conviction, and that this feeling frequently manifested itself, although Johnson was not in Chattanooga from
the time of his arrest until his trial began. The intensity of
this feeling and the great apprehension of the officers of mob
violence is shown in the testimony of defendants' own witnesses, describing the precautions and secrecy exercised by
them in the way they took Johnson in and out of Chattanooga,
as well as by the fact that they kept him away from Chattanooga from the day of his arrest until March 11, two days before the time set for his execution, with the exception of the
three days he was there attending his trial. Undoubtedly the
public believed that Johnson would be executed on March 13,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

until the reprieve to March 20 was granted on March 11; and
after the petition for habeas corpus was denied by the Circuit
Court believed that Johnson would then be executed on the
twentieth.
Sheriff Shipp testifies that inflammatory reports of the habeas corpus proceedings and efforts to appeal the case to the
Supreme Court were sent out by the newspapers on March 11,
and because of that he had fear of mob violence to Johnson.
The efforts made by Johnson's attorneys to obtain an appeal
were kept before the public by the newspapers.
March 16 The Chattanooga Times published a statement
that a negro attorney had gone to Washington to obtain an appeal from the order denying the petition for habeas corpus.
The article said:
"People here are decidedly anxious as to whether Johnson
is to suffer death for his crime next Monday or escape for an
indefinite period by reason of intervention of the court at
Washington. More unrest on the subject exists than was anticipated when Johnson was brought back to the county.
"During the recent days of suspense as to his execution the
desire for information has been feverish, and telephones at
localities where information has been thought to be obtainable
have been kept busy by inquirers."
In The News, published the evening of March 19, there
was an editorial reviewing the local proceedings, which concluded:
"All of this delay is aggravating to the community. The
people of Chattanooga believe that Johnson is guilty and that
he ought to suffer the penalty of the law as speedily as possible.
If by legal technicality the case is prolonged and the culprit
finally escapes, there will be no use to plead with a mob here if
another such crime is committed. Such delays are largely responsible for mob violence all over the country."
The assertions that mob violence was not expected and that
there was no occasion for providing more than the usual guard

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

of one man for the jail in Chattanooga, are quite unreasonable
and inconsistent with statements made by Sheriff Shipp and
his deputies that they were looking for a mob on the next day.
Officers and others were heard to say that they expected a mob
would attempt to lynch Johnson on the twentieth. There does
not seem to be any foundation for the belief that the mob
would be considerate enough to wait until the twentieth. If
the officers expected a mob at all, as they say that they did,
they cannot shield themselves behind the statement that they
expected it on the twentieth, the day that had been appointed
for Johnson to die, and did not expect it the night before. But
no orders had been given and nothing had been done up to
half-past eight o'clock on the night of the nineteenth to protect
Johnson from the mob which was, according to their present
statements, expected the next day.
Testimony was given by a servant in Shipp's house that a
week before Johnson was lynched Shipp was heard to say that
if the execution were stayed Johnson would be mobbed. This
was, however, disputed by Shipp and relatives of his who were
there at the time.
On May 28, at Birmingham, Alabama, defendant Shipp
himself, in an interview reported and printed the next morning in The Birmingham Age-Herald, said:
"'The first I knew of the mob was through a telephone
message I received from The Chattanooga Times office, for
they had cut the wires at the county jail immediately upon
their arrival. I dressed as quickly as possible and went to the
jail, and found a crowd of about seventy-five people around it,
most of them being in disguise. I made my way through the
crowd into the jail and began remonstrating with them against
taking any drastic steps. They seized me and took me upstairs, locking me up in a bathroom. The members of the mob
told me they meant no violence to me. I argued with them
against doing anything at all, since the law had so far taken its
proper course. I am frank to say that I did not attempt to hurt
any of them, and would not have made such an attempt if I could.
voL.. ccxiv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

In the first place, I could have done no good, as I was overwhelmed by numbers.
" 'The Supreme Court of the United States was responsible
for this lynching. I had given that negro every protection
that I could. For fourteen days I had guarded and protected
him myself. The authorities had urged me to use one or two
military companies in doing so, but I told them I would land
the negro in jail, which I did, individually.
" 'Many nights before the lynching there had been a sufficient guard around the jail. I had looked for no trouble that
night and, on the contrary, did not look for it until the next day.
That night no one was on duty except the jailer, which is the
usual guard at our jail, as well as in other counties.
" 'In my opinion the act of the Supreme Court of the United
States in not allowing the case to remain in our courts was the
most unfortunate thing in the history of Tennessee. I was
determined that the case should be put in the hands of the law,
as it was. The jury that tried the negro Johnson was as good
as ever sat in a jury box.
"'The people of Hamilton County were willing to let the
law take its course until it became known that the case would
not probably be disposed of for four or five years by the Supreme Court of the United States. The people would not submit to this, and I do not wonder at it.
" 'These proceedings in the United States Supreme Court
recently appear to me to be only a matter of politics. I do not
wish to appear in the light of defying the United States court,
but I did my duty. I am conscious of it, thoroughly conscious of it, and I am ready for any conditions that may come
up. ' "
The testimony of the reporter that Shipp made these statements was corroborated by the evidence of another reporter
who interviewed Shipp on the following day regarding them,
and is not denied by Shipp except in an immaterial particular.
From this it appears that defendant Shipp looked for trouble
on the twentieth, but, as he says, not that night; that he did

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not attempt to hurt any of the mob, "and would not have
made such an attempt if I could."
He evidently resented the necessary order of this court as an
alien intrusion, and declared that the court was responsible for
the lynching. According to him, "the people of Hamilton
County were willing to let the law take its course until it became known that the case would not probably be disposed of
for four or five years by the Supreme Court of the United
States." "But," he added, "the people would not submit to
this, and I do not wonder at it." In other words, his view was
that because this court, in the discharge of its duty entered
the order which it did, that therefore the people of Hamilton
County would not submit to its mandate, and hence the court
became responsible for the mob. He took the view expressed
by several members of the mob on the afternoon of the nineteenth and before the lynching, when they said, referring to the
Supreme Court, that "they had no business interfering with
our business at all." His reference to the "people" was significant, for he was a candidate for re~lection and had been told
that his saving the prisoner from the first attempt to mob him
would cost him his place, and he had answered that he wished
the mob had got him before he did.
It seems to us that to say that the sheriff and his deputies
did not anticipate that the mob would attempt to lynch Johnson on the night of the nineteenth is to charge them with gross
neglect of duty and with an ignorance of conditions in a matter
which vitally concerned them all as officers, and is directly
contrary to their own testimony. It is absurd to contend that
officers of the law who have been through the experiences these
defendants had .passed through two months prior to the actual
lynching did not know that a lynching probably would be
attempted on the nineteenth. Under the facts shown, when
the sheriff and his deputies assert that they expected a mob on
the twentieth, they practically concede the allegation of the
information that they were informed and had every reason
to believe that an attempt would be made on the evening

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

of the nineteenth or early on the morning of the twentieth.
In view of this, Shipp's failure to make the slightest preparation to resist the mob; the absence of all of the deputies, except Gibson, from the jail during the mob's proceedings, occupying a period of some hours in the early evening; the action
of Shipp in not resisting the mob and his failure to make any
reasonable effort to save Johnson or identify the members of
the mob, justify the inference of a disposition upon his part to
render it easy for the mob to lynch Johnson, and to acquiesce
in the lynching. After Shipp was informed that a mob was at
the jail, and he could not do otherwise than go there, he did not
and in fact at no time hindered the mob or caused it to be interfered with, or helped in the slightest degree to protect Johnson. And this in utter disregard of this court's mandate and in
defiance of this court's orders.
Let us recapitulate the facts bearing immediately on defendant Shipp.
About 9 o'clock on the night of the nineteenth the judge before whom Johnson was tried, and the attorney who prosecuted
him, communicated with Sheriff Shipp at his house, saying
that there were persons around the jail who looked suspicious,
and suggesting that the sheriff had better go down to the jail.
At that time a report was generally circulated in the city
that a mob was at the jail to lynch Johnson.
Shipp lived only a few blocks from the jail. He reached the
jail about nine. He was alone. A number of people were in
the jail and outside of it when he arrived. He anticipated a
mob was inside.
Without stopping to speak to any of these people he rushed
inside of the jail to the foot of the stairs leading to the floor
Johnson was on. There he was taken hold of by five or six men
and carried upstairs. The men who took hold of him had no
firearms.
At first he was put in a bathroom, and then was released and
stood around near the corridor door, where the mob was at

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

work, with three or four unarmed men around him. He made
no effort to get away or use force in opposing the mob. He
did not attempt to use his pistol or call for help. After the corridor door had been broken in, either Shipp or defendant Gibson told the mob which cell Johnson was in. When the mob
left the jail with Johnson, Shipp did not follow or make any
effort to rescue Johnson or get others to help rescue him. He
was not locked up when the mob left the jail, but was left entirely free.
When the crowd following the lynchers was about two blocks
from the jail, Shipp came out of the building alone and unguarded. To a request made by a man at that time to go and
identify members of the mob, Shipp replied that it would be
dangerous and foolish. This request was made before the
shooting occurred.
A special deputy met Shipp at the jail just after Johnson had
been taken out and before he was shot. Shipp told him that
the mob had Johnson. Shipp was quiet, and made no effort to
go after the lynchers, or to reach the police or militia or others.
When he reached the jail he could have gone about three
blocks to the police station and got the police.
No alarm bell was rung at the court house that night, although it was rung the night of the attempted lynching January 25, and it drew out a big crowd. No attempt was made
by Shipp or others to summon a posse. He sent no one after
deputies. He made no effort to send any one for help.
It is testified that some time after the mob had left the jail
for the bridge, Shipp sent Galloway and Clark down to the
bridge, but he made no effort to go himself.
There was in the crowd around the jail and at the scene of
the lynching a substantial number of law-abiding men of good
character.
That assistance in suppressing the mob might have been
easily obtained if effort had been made is shown by the testimony of the chairman of the board of safety, who testifies
that at the time of the first lynching in going four or five

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

blocks to the jail he gathered about 16 men to help put down
the mob.
The militia was drilling on the night of the nineteenth between 8 and 10.30 in the armory, a well-known place, three
blocks from the jail. It was not called upon to assist in suppressing the mob, although it had been called out twice before
by the governor, and was bound to respond to another call by
him.
The governor had given assurances that any help asked for
would be given, and we have no doubt he would have responded, for he would have had the honor of Tennessee in his
keeping.
Numerous witnesses testify that no firearms were displayed
by the mob except that one of their number was in the office of
the jail with a Winchester rifle, and one pistol was exhibited to
a reporter when the door was being broken open.
No deputies put in an appearance while the mob was at the
jail or during the lynching, except Frank Jones, who approached the jail with a prisoner, but upon seeing the mob immediately left with the prisoner, and excepting Matt Galloway,
who was seen in the crowd.
From the time he reached there, about 6 o'clock, until the
mob came, Gibson was the only officer in charge of the jail.
But there was much evidence that customarily many deputies
were there nightly, and that several were present on the
night of the nineteenth until just before the irruption of the
mob.
Heavy iron chains were sometimes used as additional guards
upon circular doors in the jail, such as that leading to Johnson's corridor. These were locked by the prisoners on the inside. During the trial of Johnson these chains were used on the
circular doors. But none were on the circular door leading to
Johnson's cell on the nineteenth. It also appears that Johnson's cell door was not locked.
Winchester rifles which were kept to defend the jail against
mob violence were, at the time the mob attacked the jail on

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the nineteenth, in a show case in the office. These were taken
out of the show case by the mob and unloaded.
Although Shipp was in the midst or near the members of the
mob for about an hour when they were in the jail, he did not
seek to obtain information so that he could identify any of
them, and he testifies that he does not know any member of
the mob.
Only one conclusion can be drawn from these facts, all
of which are clearly established by the evidence-Shipp not
only made the work of the mob easy, but in effect aided and
abetted it.
Gibson is involved in the same condemnation though under
less responsibility. We think belief on his part that a mob
would attempt to enter the jail and lynch Johnson on the night
of the nineteenth must be presumed.
The day jailer left the jail some time after six o'clock, and
transferred the keys to Gibson, the night jailer. Gibson's
15-year old boy was with him, but went to the opera house at
8.30. Gibson was in charge of the jail more than two hours
before the arrival of the mob, and he made no effort to summon assistance to repel the attack, although necessarily he
must have known that he alone could only offer slight resistance. Mrs. Baker, a white woman, confined on the same floor
with Johnson, testified that Gibson, soon after arriving at the
jail, when she had gone down stairs to get a letter written, said
to her that a mob was coming, and directed her to go to her
room, and when the mob was at the jail came to her door and
told her that no one would hurt her. Gibson admits the last
statement, but denies the first.
He testifies that when he heard the mob he went into the
hospital cell, located on the top floor, and sat down on a
lounge, and as soon as the mob got upstairs he handed over
to them his pistol and the keys, including a key to the door of
Johnson's cell; that he did not try to use the pistol, or to resist
the mob by force; that from the top floor he could have gone
through the kitchen into the yard and back of the jail, but he

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

made no effort to do so, although it took the mob some ten
minutes after he knew they were there to break through the
door between the outer door and the jail proper; that he just
gave up and made no effort at all to resist the mob or rescue
Johnson after they had left the jail; that although the men
were bold in their work, he failed to recognize any one excepting Nick Nolan.
Galloway was a deputy sheriff from the time Johnson was
convicted until after the lynching, and was told by the sheriff
after the mob had left for the bridge to go down there, and did
so, but Johnson was then dead. He was criminal court deputy, and served criminal court papers and made arrests. But
he had no charge of the jail or keeping of prisoners except when
officially so assigned. He had no connection with the jail or the
prisoners at any time after Johnson was brought from Knoxville on the tenth or eleventh of March. He testified that he
had heard nothing while attending to his duties that made
him think Johnson was in danger; was a member of the Eagle
Club, and was there on evening of the nineteenth, at 7.45, not
having heard prior thereto anything about any impending
lynching. His first information of the lynching was after 10
o'clock, when he went to the jail at once. There he met the
sheriff, who asked him to go to the bridge, which he did, but
Johnson was dead. We think Galloway must be acquitted of
the charges in the information.
This brings us to a consideration of the case in respect of the
six defendants, who are charged as members of the mob and
participants in its action.
As to Williams and Nolan, there is direct testimony to their
participation in the lynching, and we do not think that the evidence relied on to weaken that conclusion is sufficient to do so.
As to Padgett and Mayse, there is testimony of statements
on their part on the afternoon of the nineteenth and the morning of the twentieth, which, if believed, demonstrates their
guilt. We have carefully examined and analyzed the evidence
to impeach the principal witness to these conversations, and

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

also to make out alibis, but we cannot accept it as convincing.
We hold that the case as to Justice and Ward fails on the
evidence.
In our opinion it does not admit of question on this record
that this lamentable riot was the direct result of opposition to
the administration of the law by this court. It was not only
in defiance of our mandate, but was understood to be such.
The Supreme Court of the United States was called upon to
abdicate its functions and decline to enter such orders as the
occasion, in its judgment demanded, because of the danger of
their defeat by an outbreak of lawless violence. It is plain
that what created this mob and led to this lynching was the
unwillingless of its members to submit to the delay required
for the appeal. The intent to prevent that delay by defeating
the hearing of the appeal necessarily follows from the defendants' acts, and if the life of any one in the custody of the law is
at the mercy of a mob the administration of justice becomes a
mockery. When this court granted a stay of execution on
Johnson's application it became its duty to protect him until
his case should be disposed of. And when its mandate issued
for his protection was defied, punishment of those guilty of
such attempt must be awarded.
The rule will be discharged as to the defendants Galloway,
Justice and Ward, and made absolute as to the other defendants.
Rule discharged as to defendants Galloway, Justice and Ward,
and made absolute as to defendants Shipp, Gibson, Williams, Nolan, Padgett and Mayse. Attachments to issue,
returnableon Tuesday, June 1.1
MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the disposition of the case.

'For proceedings on the return of the attachment on June 1,
see p. 483, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM,
WHITE

and Mn.

and MCKENN., JJ., dissenting.

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA,

214 U. S.
JUSTICE

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case, and I think its importance requires a statement of the
reasons for my dissent. In regard to the crime which was perpetrated by the mob upon the person of the negro there can be
but one opinion. I take it that all intelligent and respectable
citizens who are cognizant of the facts agree that it was
murder, without one extenuating circumstance to relieve its
atrocious character. The important question, however, is,
first, as to the sheriff-whether he is guilty of the charge made
against him in the information filed in this proceeding. The
charge, as contained in the information, upon which such a
vast amount of evidence has been taken, is that the sheriff,
and many other persons, conspired together for the purpose
of breaking and entering the county jail and taking therefrom
the negro Johnson, in order to lynch him, with the intent to
thereby show their contempt and disregard of the order of this
court and to prevent the hearing of the appeal.
A careful consideration of the case leaves me with the conviction that there is not one particle of evidence that any conspiracy had ever been entered into or existed on the part of the
sheriff, as charged against him. It is not alone that the evidence preponderates in his favor, but it seems to me there is
no material evidence against him, certainly none that rises
higher than the merest possible suspicion, founded upon evidence of facts which are in themselves wholly inconclusive,
and just as consistent with innocence as with guilt. His
character is shown by many witnesses to be that of the highest.
Not a man in Chattanooga stands better as a man and a citizen than he does. There is not a particle of evidence to the
contrary. He has lived an honored and respected citizen of
that city since 1874; has held honorable official positions before the one that he now holds, and yet, as an old man, he is
adjudged guilty of a contempt of this court and liable to serve

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

a disgraceful imprisonment because, as is insisted in this
record, he did not do as much towards resisting a lawless mob
as this court says he ought to have done.
The crime for which Johnson was convicted was perpetrated
on a white schoolgirl on January 23, 1906, and on the twentyfifth of that month Johnson was arrested near Chattanooga
and charged with the crime. After being arrested he was
taken by the sheriff, by order of the State Criminal Court, to
the jail at Nashville, where he was kept until the day of his
trial, February 6. The sheriff was active and intelligent in his
efforts to preserve the safety of the negro. No adverse criticism is or can truthfully be made upon his conduct at that
time. At the time of the arrest of the negro there is no contradiction in the evidence that there was very great excitement and a disposition evinced to lynch Johnson at once. A
crowd of over a thousand, it is said, surrounded the jail on the
night of January 25, where Johnson was supposed to be, but
the prisoner was not in the jail, and the deputies of the sheriff
(the sheriff himself, having Johnson in custody, was taking
him to Nashville) exhorted the mob to disperse, and finally
people were sent into the jail on behalf of the mob, and went
through it to satisfy themselves that Johnson was not there.
The mob thereupon dispersed. On January 26 a grand jury
was convened and Johnson was indicted, and on February 6
he was brought to Chattanooga from Nashville, and his trial
was commenced that day in the criminal court. On February 9 he was convicted and sentenced to death. No appeal
was taken by the lawyers appointed by the court to defend
him from that sentence. The lawyers said they feared the
prisoner would be lynched if such an appeal were taken. On
his conviction he was taken from Chattanooga to Knoxville,
in the personal custody of the sheriff, to be safe from any possible violence of the mob. No mob, however, appeared, and
nothing was attempted. The judge who presided at the trial
of the negro, after his conviction, told the sheriff that the
prisoner would be entirely safe at Chattanooga. After the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

trial the excitement decreased very greatly and seemed to dis-'
appear entirely. Of this fact there is no contradiction in the
evidence. On March 3 a petition for a writ of habeas corpus
was filed in the United States Circuit Court for the Northern
Division of the Eastern District of Tennessee on the part of
Johnson. On March 10 the petition was denied, and the Circuit Judge ordered that Johnson be remanded to the custody
of the sheriff of Hamilton County (at Chattanooga), Tenn., to
be detained by the sheriff in his custody for ten days, in which
to permit Johnson to prosecute an appeal from the order, and
in default of the prosecution of such appeal further proceedings
to be taken in the state court of Tennessee, under its sentence.
Immediately after this decision Johnson was taken back to
Chattanooga, arriving there March 11. Everything was quiet
and there was no evidence of excitement, nor of any intention
whatever to interfere with the negro. The sheriff kept watch
of public sentiment for several days thereafter. He was himself going about through the city, mixing with all manner of
crowds, and found not the slightest evidence that would lead
any reasonable man to believe that any assault was intended
upon Johnson. The sheriff stated that he did some canvassing
in his election campaign during this time, and was around in
the manufacturing establishments and saw no excitement and
heard no talk of the case during the whole time. There was
nothing at all, says the sheriff, that came to his knowledge
during this time that would have put a prudent and careful
man on his guard.
On March 19, the day preceding the night of the lynching,
the same thing was noticed of a total lack of any evidence of
any excitement or of any evidence of an intention to commit
any violence. Thus from the eleventh to the nineteenth of
March-from the time that Johnson was brought back from
Knoxville to Chattanooga, after Judge Clark, the United
States judge, had denied his petition for habeas corpus-the
city was entirely tranquil and nothing was done which would
have caused any man, even the most circumspect and pru-

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

dent, to believe that any violence was intended. During the
time, from the eleventh to the nineteenth of March, there had
been no extra guards at the jail because of these facts. No
demonstration had been made against the jail and no threats
made against the prisoner that anybody heard. Judge Clark,
now deceased, who had been a resident of Chattanooga since
1883, was a witness in this proceeding, and stated that he had
never heard anything suggested as to there being any danger
to Johnson if the stay of execution were granted in his case.
Judge Clark said: "It strikes me it was absolutely absurd in
view of what actually occurred." The judge was also asked
whether anything said at the trial of the habeas corpus proceedings on the part of the representatives of the State, or on
the part of any one, caused him to apprehend any mob violence to this man, and the judge said, none in the least. The
judge also said that he had asked his secretary on the day that
he was at Chattanooga on his way to St. Augustine if he had
heard of any suggestions or hints of violence or dissatisfaction
with the situation, and the secretary told him that he had not.
On March 19, he had, he said, called up some one of the defendants' attorneys and found out that the appeal from the
order denying the habeas corpus had been allowed by the Supreme Court of the United States, and the judge said to the
attorney that he would be there all day at his office and would
leave for Florida that night. The judge said the reason he
made that announcement was that he had known that Johnson had been taken to another jail prior to this, and that he
was brought out of the Knoxville jail when the petition for
habeas corpus was brought up before him (Judge Clark).
"Therefore," Judge Clark said, "on account of that, after
getting Mr. Justice Harlan's telegram, I would have ordered
the man to any jail where it was desired to send him . .
if it had appeared that the prisoner was in great or real danger-if that had appeared to me-I am quite sure that I would
have made the order of my own motion, or would have called
up his attorney and suggested that he make an application for

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE

and

MC KENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

his removal." The following question was also put to the
judge: "Q. Judge Clark, I will ask you if the attorney to
whom you talked or any other attorney for the defendant
Johnson, or any other person, suggested to you the necessity
or even the propriety of taking steps to protect your prisoner,
the Federal prisoner Johnson? A. I never heard the remotest
suggestion, and I did not think the man was in any danger. I
thought it was simply the noise that is generally made by people who really do not expect to do anything. . . . I
will say that I had heard no suggestion and that I had no
thought that there was any danger on hand anywhere." If
there had been any evidence of danger or the possibility
thereof, would not the attorneys of the negro who were engaged in the prosecution of their habeas corpus proceedings
have responded to the judge, and asked for the removal of the
negro to another jail? They did not ask for it because, as is
perfectly evident, they shared the general opinion that there
was no danger; that the former danger had passed, and there
was no reason for further action.
The same kind of evidence was given by the most respectable men in the community-editors, reporters, railway agents,
large employers of men, clergymen, lawyers, doctors and business men, citizens of the place, and also by the chief of police
of the city. Not one of them apprehended danger of mob
violence at that time. All of these men were cognizant of the
facts as to the prior attempts at lynching and as to the high
state of excitement which existed at that time. But they all
agreed that such excitement had entirely passed and that
there was not the least danger to be apprehended. One of
these ministers, the Rev. Mr. Boswell, had been a resident of
the city for nearly four years, and was a member of what is
termed the Pastors' Union of Chattanooga. He was also a
fraternal delegate from the Pastors' Union to the Central
Labor League, composed of delegates from every labor organization in the city, and, as a member of the Pastors' Union,
he cobperated with the Central Labor League as a fraternal

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

delegate. He also preached on an average twice a week in the
various shops in the city. He said that at the time of the
arrest the public feeling was intense and that it subsided with
the beginning of the trial. He was present during most of the
trial. After the trial was over he found no talk that would
cause him to apprehend that there might be an attempt to
lynch the prisoner. He had, he said, preached a sermon on
lynching after the first attempt was made and had taken the
position that it was a violation of good citizenship, and did not
mince his words at all, and yet with all these opportunities to
know the state of public feeling he said that there was nothing
that would arouse apprehension on his part, or, so far as he
could see, on the part of any prudent man, that there was any
lynching threatened. And this, too, after it was known that
this court had allowed the appeal from Judge Clark's order.
The evidence of the other witnesses was of the same character,
and there were unanimous expressions of opinion by the witnesses upon the hearing of this case, that there was no question of danger of mob violence to be apprehended up to the
very last moment; and yet counsel for the Government have
regarded it as part of the evidence of the guilt of the sheriff as
a conspirator that he acted as if he did not apprehend any
violence, and that he took no steps to prevent it on the day in
question. No one else had any idea that there was any danger
and no one else was looking for it. The men who testified that
there was no apprehension of mob violence were men who were
specially cognizant of the state of public opinion at that time.
The counsel for the Government insisted that it was the duty
of the sheriff to have had the jail guarded on that day by extra
guards, and that his failure to do so was evidence of his being
guilty of the conspiracy as alleged in the information. Although the fact was announced in the morning papers of
the nineteenth that the allowance of the appeal had been
granted by this court, there was during the day no evidence
of excitement and no hostile demonstration or suspicion of it
against the prisoner, and no evidence of any fact going to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM,

WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

show any projected formation of a mob or the least probability
of any lynching or any attempt that night. Under these cir-

cumstances, on March 19 the sheriff went home about halfpast six in the evening, leaving things at the jail the same as
usual. Suppose, as a matter of judgment, the sheriff should
have proceeded as if this almost universal sentiment as to the
absence of all danger was erroneous, or not well founded, and
that as matter of good sense he should have had the jail
guarded, is it possible that he can be properly convicted of
contempt while he agreed with this public sentiment and acted
accordingly? At any rate, he went home as usual, and was
sitting at his desk in his home when the telephone sounded
some time about nine o'clock and he recognized, upon going
to it, the voice of the Attorney General, Whittaker, who asked
him if he knew what was going on at the jail, and the sheriff
said, "No," and the Attorney General said, "You had better
go down there." He went down there as rapidly as he could,
running most of the way and walking rapidly for the rest, and,
being under the care of a physician for a difficulty of the
stomach, he was much exhausted when he arrived at the jail,
where a large number of men were assembled, many of them
armed, and they immediately surrounded and took possession
of him. Many of them were masked and were waiting for
their comrades to bring Johnson down. The sheriff expostulated and remonstrated with these men and asked them to
desist, when they seized him. He was seized from behind, and
he testified that he did not know but that they were going to do
him some violence, and he reached back for his gun, which he
had in his pocket. They assured him that they did not intend
to hurt him and then they seized and rushed him up the stairs
and carried him into a hallway, where he was kept a prisoner
until after the crowd had got Johnson and left the jail with
him. The sheriff was sixty-three years of age at this time,
and, on account of his physical condition, unable in any event
to have offered any great resistance. There were at least ten
or fifteen of the men around him who were armed, and the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 T3. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE

and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

sequel proved that many more in the crowd were also armed.
Others were standing back looking on. Whether the sheriff
might possibly have been quicker with his gun and taken it
out of his pocket and shot some of them, is not certain, from
the evidence, but the odds of even ten or fifteen to one are
somewhat large, and that he did not kill, or attempt to kill,
any of them is no evidence whatever of complicity with these
miscreants, and certainly no evidence of contempt of this
court. It seems to me most extraordinary that even an official
under these circumstances can be found guilty of a contempt
because in fact he did not resist to the death.
Argument has also been made against the sheriff, based on
the fact that on his way from the house to the jail he did not
seek out the militia, a company of which is said to have been
engaged in drilling that night in its drill room, and ask for assistance immediately at the jail. It may be that such would
have been a wise course, but he was acting on the spur of the
moment and under a call to come immediately to the jail, and
he was not sure of what was going on, and in seeking the aid of
the militia he was not certain to succeed in obtaining immediate assistance. At any rate, the mere fact that he did not
think of it or stop to do it is no evidence whatever to show that
his failure to seek its aid was criminal. I think the conspiracy
part of the information is absolutely without evidence to support it.

It is, however, argued that the sheriff did not otherwise do
all that he should have done to prevent this infamous crime,
and hence that he is guilty of a contempt. As evidence of this
fact the Government refers to the interview of May 28 between
the sheriff and a newspaper reporter in Birmingham. On that
day, at the time of the interview, news had been received of
the action of this court ordering certain persons to show cause
as for contempt. In this interview Sheriff Shipp said that the
first he knew of the mob was through a telephone message;
that he went to the jail and made his way through the crowd,
and remonstrated with them against taking any drastic steps,
voL. ccxiv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE

and

McKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

They seized him and took him upstairs, locking him in a bathroom. The members of the mob told him they meant no violence to him. He argued with them against doing anything
at all, since the law had so far taken its proper course, and the
interview went on with this statement: "I am frank to say that
I did not attempt to hurt any of them, and would not have
made such an attempt if I could. In the first place, I could
have done no good, as I was overwhelmed by numbers." The
sheriff's statement that he made no attempt to hurt any of the
mob, and would not have made such an attempt if he could,
must be taken with the rest of his statement, in which he said
that "in the first place, he could have done no good by it,
as he was overwhelmed by numbers." There is no doubt of
the truth of that statement. He was one man against, at the
very least, ten or fifteen or more resolute men, armed and assembled for the purpose of getting this negro, and surrounded
by a still larger crowd in the jail yard, and there is not the
slightest evidence that they were unarmed. Their subsequent
action shows an unnecessary supply of guns. It is true, the
sheriff might possibly have drawn his gun and fired at the
masked men as he came into the jail and succeeded in killing
one and perhaps more of the members of the mob, but it is
absolutely true that it would have done no good even then, because with such odds against him his struggles could have
resulted only in his being actually overwhelmed and possibly
killed, while the negro would not have been saved. The
sheriff occupied no vantage ground from which to repel an attack and where his first assailant would stand a good chance
of being killed by him. He was not only in the power of the
mob who had him in custody, but he was also without any one
to appeal to for aid. Those who were bystanders knew of the
sheriff's difficulty without further appbal by him, and yet they
seemed to feel no desire to interfere or else recognized the uselessness at that time of any effort.
The evidence of witnesses for the Government showed without contradiction that the sheriff came to the jail running as

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE

and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

fast as he could; that he pushed through the crowd, shoved
the men aside and entered the inside of the enclosure, never
stopping at all, and the moment he arrived at the jail door he
was set upon and seized by four or five men and overpowered,
and he talked to and expostulated with the crowd, trying to
reason with them and to get them to stop. When asked if the
sheriff made any show of force, the Government witness said,
"Well, he didn't have any chance to," and the question being
repeated, the witness said, "Well, he did, yes, but he was overpowered," that" he resisted their efforts to hold him," by "trying to pull away." (Evidence of Curtis, one of the reporters
on The Chattanooga Times, and a witness for the Government.)
The evidence of another reporter, Mr. Chivington, and a Government witness, was to the same effect, that the sheriff was
seized by four or five men and overpowered, and carried upstairs, and that he appealed to the mob not to lynch the negro.
The witness also said that at this time, just as the sheriff was
seized, the witness imagined he saw the sheriff "like he was
going to draw a pistol, but before he could move any further
there were five or six fellows grabbed him and carried him
bodily to the top of the stairs."
All this time there was not an offer from a single man to aid
the sheriff when they saw him seized, nor did any of them
spread any alarm or ask for any outside aid, and the sheriff
says he did not ask for it because he knew it would be useless
to make any such appeal to the persons there, and that every
one there knew the situation, and the overwhelming numbers
of the crowd surrounding the premises and in the jail.
Of course, as the witnesses heard the sheriff expostulating
with and begging the crowd to do no harm to the negro, if
there had been the least disposition on the part of any one to
come to his aid the opportunity to do so was quite open and
plain.
The appearance of the sheriff after the taking of the negro,
and the effect of the whole occurrence upon him is stated in
the evidence, about which there is not the slightest contradic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

tion. He was greatly excited, and almost in a faint. He was
as white as a sheet, and said to the witness, "My God! I did
everything I could." He also said in the course of the interview with the witness, "'My God! they have ruined me.' He
had all the appearance of a man who was ready to collapse.
You could barely understand what he said. His voice was in
a tremble, like a voice filled with emotion." This is the evidence of Mr. Horan, and it is nowhere contradicted. And yet
the Government claims that in such a case the sheriff should
be imprisoned for a contempt of this court because he did not
do more in the way of resistance to an overwhelming force, and
did not foresee with more clearness than any one else what was
to happen on the night of the nineteenth, and take measures
accordingly to guard the safety of the negro. It seems to me
that the opinion of the court is founded upon this view.
Then, again, this is not a question as to whether possibly the
sheriff might have done more than he did. Some men, under
such circumstances, might perhaps have earlier attempted to
draw their guns, and would possibly only have ceased resistance with their lives. But when one is really overpowered,
superior force makes efforts at resistance futile, if not foolish.
Other men might do less than this man did and still be absolutely innocent of a contempt. The question is not whether
this invalid old man did everything that he possibly could have
done up to the last extremity and at the risk of his life in the
performance of his duty as sheriff. To be free from any contempt of this court it was not necessary that the sheriff should
have stood by the prisoner at the peril of his own life or that
he should have sacrificed it in an unsuccessful attempt against
ofverwhelming odds to prevent the mob from taking the prisoner out of his custody. The sheriff, under circumstances such
as are detailed in this case, should be freed from the charge of
contempt if he were not guilty of any conspiracy with others
to lynch the prisoner, and if he honestly and fairly did what
he could in the way of remonstrance and exhortation to prevent the lynching. Being in the power of the mob, he was not

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

PECKHAM, WHITE

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

called upon to sacrifice his life in a desperate and hopeless attempt to save his prisoner against odds, such as appeared in
this case, or else take the risk of being adjudged guilty of a contempt of court. But what could the sheriff have done more
than he did do? That he was in the power of these men is absolutely without contradiction from the evidence. If he had
had his pockets full of pistols he could have done nothing with
them, as the evidence shows, the moment he was seized by the
crowd. His statement that the mob took action because of the
allowance of the writ of error by this court, which they thought
might involve great delay, and that the mob would not stand
for that, is but the expression of an opinion by the sheriff as to
the reason for the lynching. He does not and did not pretend
to justify the action. In all probability that was the reasona dislike of the interference of this court-a reason utterly
without justification and disgraceful to those who entertained
it. But the sheriff surely cannot be properly convicted because he simply truthfully stated the sentiments which in his
judgment actuated the mob. It is not a crime to entertain an
opinion as to what moved a mob under these circumstances
nor can this court properly, in my judgment, convict an official of contempt because he stated his belief that the mob acted
from this most disgraceful reason. Nor is the opinion, as expressed, the least evidence of the guilt of the sheriff of the contempt with which he is charged, or of any conspiracy to commit it.
In the interview the sheriff also said he had looked for no
trouble that night, and on the contrary did not look for it until
the next day. It will be remembered the next day was the one
appointed for carrying into execution the sentence of the state
court, and when the day should pass without the sentence
being carried into execution the sheriff said afterwards that he
apprehended there might be trouble. But that was the next
day, and the trouble apprehended would be founded upon the
happening of that day, and there was an abundance of time in
which to prepare for what might then be attempted. What-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
PECKHAM, WHITE and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

214 U. S.

ever the sheriff may have thought of the delay which might be
caused by the appeal to this court, or however ill-founded his
opinion as to the probable length of that delay, his thoughts
on the subject furnish no evidence even tending to show that
he conspired with the mob or that he would not do what he
could to protect his prisoner when the exigency arose and the
time for action arrived. He may have thought there would be
great delay, and for that reason did not wonder the people
would hate to submit to it. All this, however, is mere evidence as to what it was supposed a mob might do the next day,
but is, as I have repeated already, no evidence of conspiracy
on the part of the sheriff to aid the mob, and none that he was
guilty of a contempt in not resisting or attacking it up to the
point of imperilling his life in a futile attempt to protect his
prisoner. It seems to me that the sheriff is being held to a degree of responsibility far beyond any reasonable limit, and not
justified by the evidence contained in the record.
The Government based its argument for a conviction of the
sheriff very largely upon the interview above referred to, and
which I have commented on at some length. Strike that out
and there is really nothing whatever on which to base the
shadow of a claim for a conviction. For the reasons given I
think the interview itself is wholly insufficient as evidence of
the guilt of the sheriff, and I think the rule to show cause
should be discharged as to him. I also think the evidence is
too slight upon which to convict the jailer.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE MCKENNA concur in this dissent.

WHITE

and MR.

For proceedings on June 1, under the order of the court, see

page 483, post.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

APPENDIX TO UNITED STATES V. SHIPP.

On May 28, 1906, the Attorney General moved for leave to
file an information for contempt and on the same day the
following order was made.
UNITED STATES OF AME RICA,
COMPLAINANT,

October Term, 1905.

JoHN F. SI-IPP et al.

On motion of Mr. Attorney General Moody, of counsel for
complainants, leave is hereby granted to file an information
for contempt herein.
The information referred to on the motion of the Attorney
General and in the order is as follows:
In the Supreme Court of the United States.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

complainants,

I

JOHN F. SIPP, FRANK JONES, Mat-

thew Galloway, C. A. Baker, T.
B. Taylor, Fred Frauley, George
Brown, Jeremiah Gibson, AMarion
Perkins, Joseph Clark, "Nick"
Nolan, "Sheenie" Warner, Luther
Williams, Paul Pool, William
Marquette, William Beeler, Claude
Powell, Charles J. Powell, "Bart"
Justice, John Jones, A. J. Cartwright, R. F. Cartwright, Henry
Padgett, William May, Frank
Ward, John Varnell, and Alfred
Hammond, defendants.

October Term, 1905.
Original

No. 26.1

Information.
To the honorable the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States:
Now come the United States of America by William H. Moody,
their Attorney-General, and in their behalf inform the court as follows:
1 October Term, 1906, No. 12, original; October Term, 1907, No. 5,
original; October Term, 1908, No. 5, original.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

1. That on the I1th day of February, 1906, one Ed Johnson, a citizen of the United States and a resident and citizen of the State of
Tennessee, and a colored person of African descent, was convicted of
the crime of rape in the criminal court of Hamilton County, held at
the city of Chattanooga, in the State of Tennessee, and said court thereupon sentenced the said Ed Johnson to suffer the penalty of death.
2. That thereafter, to wit, on the 3d day of March, 1906, and before
the date set for the execution of the said Ed Johnson, a petition for
a writ of habeas corpus, signed by the said Ed Johnson, as petitioner,
was duly presented to the United States Circuit Court for the Northern
Division of the Eastern District of Tennessee, in which it was alleged,
among other things, that upon the trial of the said Ed Johnson in the
criminal court of Hamilton County in the State of Tennessee for the
crime of rape, for which he had been convicted, paid petitioner had
been denied a trial by a fair and impartial jury, and had been denied
the aid of counsel in violation of the fifth and sixth amendments to the
Federal Constitution, and that said petitioner was also denied rights
secured to him under the fourteenth amendment to the Federal Constitution; that thereafter, to wit, on the 10th day of March, 1906, the
application of the said Ed Johnson for a writ of habeas corpus came
on for hearing before the said United States Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee upon the petition, return, answer, and replication,
and upon the testimony of witnesses given orally in open court, and
after argument of counsel, the said Circuit Court ordered that said
petition be dismissed, and that the writ of habeas corpus prayed for
in said petition be denied. It was further ordered by the said Circuit
Court of the United States that said petitioner be remanded to the
custody of the sheriff of said Hamilton County in the said State of
Tennessee, to be detained by said sheriff in his custody for the period
of ten days in which to enable said petitioner to prosecute an appeal
from said order, should he be so advised and should an appeal lie from
said order, and in default of the prosecution of an appeal within said
time to be then further proceeded with by the court of the State of
Tennessee under its sentence; that thereafter, to wit, on the 17th day
of March, 1906, an application was duly presented by the said Ed
Johnson to the Hon. John M. Harlan, an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, assigned to the Sixth Circuit, asking
that an appeal be allowed to the Supreme Court of the United States
from the judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern Division of the Eastern District of Tennessee on
March 10, 1906, denying his, the said Ed Johnson's, application for a
writ of habeas corpus, as aforesaid, which said appeal was on the same

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

day duly allowed by Mr. Justice Harlan; that thereafter, to wit, on the
19th day of March, 1906, a motion was duly made in the Supreme Court
of the United States by Mr. E. M. Hewlett, counsel for and representing
the said Ed Johnson, for an order allowing an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States from the judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern Division of the Eastern District of
Tennessee, rendered on the 10th day of March, 1906, denying his, the
said Ed Johnson's, application for a writ of habeas corpus, which motion was thereupon granted by the Supreme Court of the United States
and an order duly made and entered by the Chief Justice in the words
and figures following, to wit:
"Ed Johnson, Appellant, v. The State of Tennessee.
"On motion of Mr. E. M. Hewlett, of counsel for the appellant, it is
ordered by the court that an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee be, and the same
is hereby, allowed, and that all proceedings against the appellant be
stayed, and the custody of the said appellant be retained pending this
appeal.
"Per Mr. Chief Justice Fuller."
All of which more fully appears from the record in the case entitled
"Ed Johnson, Appellant, v. The State of Tennessee," on file in the
office of the clerk of this court.
3. This honorable court is further informed of the following facts,
which are alleged and stated by the Attorney-General solely upon information and belief:
That on the same day, to wit, the said 19th day of March, 1906, and
after the making and entering of said order, as aforesaid, the clerk of
the Supreme Court of the United States duly notified by telegraph
John F. Shipp, the sheriff of said Hamilton County, in the State of
Tennessee, of the making and entering said order, as aforesaid, and of
the contents thereof, to.wit, that all proceedings against the said Ed
Johnson were ordered stayed by the said Supreme Court and that the
custody of the said Ed Johnson by the said John F. Shipp, as sheriff
of said Hamilton County, should be retained by him, the said John
F. Shipp, pending the determination of said appeal in the Supreme
Court; that said telegram informing the said John F. Shipp of the action
of this honorable court was received by said sheriff before 6 o'clock on
the evening of the said 19th day of March, 1906; that in addition to the
notification by telegraph of the action of this court in allowing said
appeal and staying proceedings against the said Ed Johnson, as aforesaid, there was published and circulated in the said city of Chattanooga

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

in the evening papers on the said 19th day of March, 1906, a full account of the action of the Supreme Court of the United States in allowing an appeal and granting a stay of further proceedings on the part of
the state courts against the said Ed Johnson until the determination of
said appeal before the Supreme Court of the United States.
4. That during all the times herein mentioned the above-named
defendant, John F. Shipp, was the duly elected, qualified, and acting
sheriff of Hamilton County, in the State of Tennessee, and as such
sheriff had and exercised full charge and control of the county jail,
located in the city of Chattanooga, in said county, and was the legal
custodian under the laws of Tennessee of all persons duly committed
in said county under the laws of said State to confinement and imprisonment within said jail; that the above-named defendants, Frank
Jones, Matthew Galloway, C. A. Baker, T. B. Taylor, Fred Frauley,
George Brown, Jeremiah Gibson, Marion Perkins, and Joseph Clark,
and each of them, were, during all the times herein mentioned, the
duly appointed, qualified, and acting deputy sheriffs of said county
and State; that said sheriff and said deputy sheriffs and each of them
before the hour of 6 o'clock on the evening of the said 19th day of
March, 1906, were fully advised and informed of the action taken by
the Supreme Court of the United States with respect to the appeal
of the said Ed Johnson, as hereinbefore set forth; that the said Ed
Johnson was then and there a prisoner confined and restrained of his
liberty in the said county jail and in the lawful custody and control of
said sheriff and said deputy sheriffs under a commitment duly issued
out of the criminal court of said Hamilton County, and under and pursuant to the orders of the said United States Circuit Court for the
Northern Division of the Eastern District of Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States made and entered as aforesaid; that
said sheriff and said deputy sheriffs on the said 19th day of March,
1906, after having been advised of the action of the Supreme Court of
the United States, as aforesaid, were informed, and had every reason to
believe, from current reports and rumors conveyed to them and each
of them, that an attempt would be made on the evening of said day or
early in the morning of the following day, by a mob composed of a
large number of armed men, to force an entrance into the said county
jail for the purpose of taking therefrom by violence and unlawful means
the said Ed Johnson and putting him to death; that notwithstanding
said rumors and said reports which were conveyed to said sheriff and
his said deputies, as aforesaid, the said sheriff withdrew from said jail
early in the evening of said day the usual and customary guard and
left in charge thereof only the night jailor, to wit, Deputy Sheriff

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

Jeremiah Gibson, and committed other acts and did other things,
evincing a purpose and disposition on the part of said sheriff to render
it less difficult and less dangerous for said mob to prosecute and carry
into effect its unlawful design and purpose, to wit, the lynching of the
said Ed Johnson, designed and planned as aforesaid.
5. That thereafter, to wit, at about the hour of 9 o'clock
on the evening of the said 19th day of March, 1906, at the city of Chattanooga
in the said county and State, the above-named defendants, John F.
Shipp, Frank Jones, Matthew Galloway, C. A. Baker, T. B. Taylor,
Fred Frauley, George Brown, Jeremiah Gibson, Marion Perkins,
Joseph Clark, "Nick" Nolan (whose true first name is to complainants
unknown), "Sheenie" Warner (whose true first name is to complainants unknown), Luther Williams, Paul Pool, William Marquette, William Beeler, Claude Powell, Charles J. Powell, "Bart" Justice (whose
true first name is to complainants unknown), John Jones, A. J. Cartwright, R. F. Cartwright, Henry Padgett, William May, Frank Ward,
John Varnell, and Alfred Hammond, and each of them, and a large
number of other persons whose names are to complainants unknown,
did then and there willfully, unlawfully, and wrongfully combine, conspire, confederate, and agree to break and enter the said county jail
of Hamilton County for the purpose of taking therefrom the person of
the said Ed Johnson to lynch and murder him, the said Ed Johnson,
with the intent then and there had and entertained by the said defendants, and each of them, to show their contempt and disregard for
the order of this honorable court made, entered, issued, and published,
as aforesaid, and for the purpose of preventing this honorable court
from hearing the appeal of the said Ed Johnson, allowed by this court,
as aforesaid, and for the purpose of preventing the said Ed Johnson
from exercising and enjoying a right secured to him by the Constitution and laws of the United States; that in the prosecution and futherance of said unlawful conspiracy, made and entered into as aforesaid,
and in order to show their contempt and disregard for the said order
of this honorable court, and in order to prevent this court from hearing
said appeal, said defendants and each of them did then and there
do the things and commit the acts more particularily described, as
follows, to wit:
That between the hours of 9 and 12 o'clock on the evening of the
said 19th day of March, 1906, at the city of Chattanooga, in the county
and State aforesaid, a large number of persons, including the abovenamed defendants, with the exception of the said John F. Shipp, the
sheriff of said county, and the said Jeremiah Gibson, deputy sheriff of
said county, assembled in the vicinity of said county jail, and thereupon

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

said mob unlawfully and wrongfully entered said jail and with force
and arms broke open the cell in which the said Ed Johnson was then
and there confined as a prisoner, and with force and violence and against
the will of him, the said Ed Johnson, took him, the said Ed Johnson,
from said jail to a point a short distance therefrom and hanged him,
the said Ed Johnson, by the neck until he was dead; that at the time
said mob entered said jail, as aforesaid, the only person in charge
thereof was the said deputy sheriff, Jeremiah Gibson; that while the
mob was in possession of said jail the said sheriff, John F. Shipp, arrived at said jail, but made no effort to prevent said mob or any of the
members thereof from taking the said Ed Johnson from said jail; that
the said John F. Shipp and the said Jeremiah Gibson were in truth
and in fact in sympathy with said mob and, while pretending to perform their duty as officials of said county and State in affording protection to the said Ed Johnson, who was then and there in their lawful
custody and control, the said John F. Shipp and the said Jeremiah Gibson and each of them did in truth and in fact aid and abet said mob
and the members thereof in the prosecution and performance of their
unlawful act in lynching and murdering the said Ed Johnson, as aforesaid; that during all this time the above-named defendants and each
of them, and the said John F. Shipp and the said Jeremiah Gibson and
each of them then and there well knew that the Supreme Court of the
United States had made, entered, issued and published the order in the
manner hereinbefore set forth; that all of said acts were then and there
committed by said defendants and each of them, and the other members of said mob whose names are to complainants unknown, with the
intent then and there had and entertained by them and by each of them
to show their contempt and utter disregard for the order of this honorable court made and entered as aforesaid, and in order to prevent this
honorable court from hearing the appeal of the said Ed Johnson, which
appeal had been perfected and allowed, as aforesaid.
6. Wherefore, the United States of America, the complainants herein,
through their Attorney-General, respectfully request this honorable
court that in consideration of the acts committed by the above-named
defendants and each of them, as hereinbefore set forth, it will issue and
direct the marshal of this court to serve upon said defendants and each
of them a rule to show cause, if any there be, on a day certain why said
defendants and each of them should not be punished as and for a contempt of this honorable court.
WILLIAM H. MooDY,

The Attorney-General of the United States.
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 25th, 1906.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

On May 28, 1906, rule to show cause was entered as follows:
Supreme Court of the United States.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
COMPLAINANTS,

V.

October Term, 1905.
No. 26. Original.

J
On consideration of the information filed herein,
It is now here ordered by the court that cause be shown by
the above-named defendants and each of them before this
court, at the city of Washington, on Monday, October 15th,
1906, at twelve o'clock noon of that day, or as soon thereafter
as counsel can be heard, why they and each of them should not
be punished as and for a contempt of this court.
And October 15, 1906, the marshal of the Supreme Court of
the United States made the following return:
JOHN

F. SHIPP

AND OTHERS.

Came to hand at my office the 4th day of June, A. D. 1906, and for
the purpose of serving the same, I, J. M. Wright, marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States, do hereby authorize and deputize
William A. Dunlap, United States marshal for the Eastern District
of Tennessee, or any of'his deputies, to serve the within rule to show
cause on the parties named therein, and make due return thereof.
In testimony whereof I hereunto subscribe my name, at the city of
Washington, this 4th day of June, A. D. 1906.
J. M. WRIGHT,
Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Came to hand at my office in Knoxville, Tenn., this the 7th day of
June, 1906, and executed on the following named defendants, at time
and place set opposite their names, by summoning them to appear
before the United States Supreme Court in the city of Washington,
D. C., on Monday, the 15th day of October, 1906, at 12 o'clock noon,
and by leaving a copy of this writ with each of the said named defendants, to wit:
Joseph F. Shipp (sheriff), Chattanooga, June 8th, 1906. Dunlap,
marshal.
Frank Jones (deputy sheriff), Chattanooga, June 8th, 1906, Dunlap, marshal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

Mathew Gallaway (deputy sheriff), Chattanooga, June 9th, 1906.
Welch, D. M.
C. A. Baker (deputy sheriff), Chattanooga, June 9th, 1906.
T. B. Taylor (dept. sheriff), Chattanooga, June 8th. Dunlap,
U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Fred Frauley (dept. sheriff), June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Geo. Brown (dept. sheriff), June 9th. Gresham, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Jeremiah Gibson (dept. sheriff), June 9th. Gresham, D. M., at
Chattanooga.
Marion Perkins (dept. sheriff), June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at
Chattanooga.
Jas. Clark (dept. sheriff), June 9th. Gresham, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Nick Nolan, June 8th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
"Cheeney" Warner, June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Luther Williams, June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Wm. Marquet, June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Wm. Beeler, June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Claud Powell, June 9th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Chas. H. Powell, June 9th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Bart Justice, June 8th. Dunlap U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Johnnie Jones, June 9th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
A. J. Cartwright, June 8th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
R. T. Cartwright, June 8th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Henry Padgett, June 8th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Win. May, June 9th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
Frank Ward, June 8th. Welch, D. M., at Chattanooga.
John Varnell, June 8th. Dunlap, U. S. M., at Chattanooga.
Alford Handman, June 9th. Gresham, D. M., at Chattanooga.
The defendant Paul Pool not to be found in my district; said to be
in Mobile, Ala.
This July 26th, 1906.
(Signed)
W. A. DUNLAP,
U. S. Marshal, E. Dist. of Tennessee.
[Similar authorizations for service of defendant Paul Pool by the
United States marshals for the Southern District of Alabama, Western
District of Texas, Southern District of California and returns by them
of "not found."]
Came to my hand, as aforesaid and returned executed by service on

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

all defendants except Paul Pool, who, after diligent search, as shown
by certificates herewith could not be found.
Witness my hand and seal this 15th day of October, A. D. 1906.
J. M.

WRIGHT,

Marshal Supreme Court of the United States.
On October 15, 1906, leave was granted on application of
counsel to file answers of the defendants.
Certain of the answers are as follows:
Joint answer of Joseph F. Shipp, sheriff, and the deputy
sheriffs, Frank Jones,' Matt. L. Galloway, 1 C. A. Baker,'
Thomas B. Taylor,1 George W. Brown,' Jeremiah Gibson,
Fred Frauley,1 Marion Perkins I and Joseph C. Clark.'
Judson Harmon,
Clift and Cooke, 'Attorneys.
Robert Pritchard,

J

To the honorable the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of the United States:
Now come Joseph F. Shipp, Frank Jones, Matthew Galloway, C. A.
Baker, T. D. Taylor, Fred Frauley, George Brown, Jeremiah Gibson,
Marion Perkins, and Joseph Clark, defendants, and, admitting their
official characters as alleged in the information herein, but protesting
that they have each and all never nor in anywise been lacking in
obedience to the authority and respect for the dignity of this honorable court, for cause why the prayer of said information should not
be granted as against them respectfully show:
I.
They first respectfully submit whether they or any of them ought
to be interrupted in the discharge of their duties under the laws of
Tennessee and put to trouble and expense by being required to answer
before this honorable court the charges made against them in the
information, because they are advised and believe, and so aver, that
said charges, even if true, would be, and ought to be treated as, crimes
under the laws of Tennessee and contempt of the judicial authority
thereof only, and not offenses against the authority or dignity of this
'The rule to show cause was subsequently discharged as to these
defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

honorable court, by reason of the following acts which are each and
all established by the record herein:
The petition filed in the Circuit Court of the United States by
Ed. Johnson for a writ of habeas corpus, mentioned in the information and, with the complete record of the proceedings thereon, made
part of said information by reference, did not in any way or in any
respect whatever allege a lack of jurisdiction in the court of the State
of Tennessee in which said Johnson was convicted, either to try him
on said charge or to adjudge the sentence imposed on him under which
he was in custody of said Shipp, as sheriff, as stated in the information.
It is not averred in said petition that the alleged denials of rights
secured to said Johnson by the Constitution of the United States, or
any one of such denials, were made by virtue or under color of the
constitution, laws, or rules of judicial practice of the State of Tennessee. On the contrary it appears from said petition that each and
every of such alleged denials of right was and is charged as being
due to the individual action of officials and other citizens of said State
in violation of their duties under the constitution and laws thereof.
And these defendants are advised and believe, and so aver, that
according to the repeated and uniform decisions of this honorable
court the Circuit Court of the United States, in which said petition
for habeas corpus was filed, had no right or authority whatever to
inquire into any of the matters alleged therein, but that the same
were cognizable only by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, which, as
shown by the record herein, had full power and authority under the
constitution and laws of said State, properly to deal with and dispose
of each and every complaint made in said petition with reference to
the indictment, trial, and sentence of said Johnson. So that said
petition for a writ of habeas corpus was, on the face thereof, merely
an attempt on the part of said Johnson to obtain from the Circuit Court
of the United States instead of from the Supreme Court of Tennessee
a review of said proceedings for alleged errors therein.
Said record, which contains all the evidence offered by either party
in said Circuit Court of the United States, shows that each and all
the allegations of said petition for a writ of habeas corpus concerning the denial of rights to said Johnson by said criminal court of
Tennessee, were both false and unfounded.
There was no proof whatever that he was denied the aid of counsel;
on the contrary it appears that, as he was unable to employ counsel,
said criminal court appointed three lawyers of high standing to conduct his defense, and that they did so, as he himself admits, with
ability, fidelity, and zeal.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

There was no proof whatever that said Johnson ever made or had
any ground for objection to the selection or character of the juries
which indicted and tried him, or of either of them. On the contrary
it appears that his counsel forbore to make such objection on learning the facts.
There was no proof whatever that his attorneys were denied the
right to apply for a change of venue or a continuance. On the contrary, it appears that they forbore to make application therefor, and
that the time for said trial, as originally fixed by the court, was postponed by the consent of counsel for both parties, and that the trial
was had at the time so agreed on.
There was no evidence whatever that his trial was not public, or
that any of his relatives or friends were prevented from attending
the same. On the contrary the proof shows that precautions were
merely taken, at the request of his own counsel, to prevent the attendance of disorderly persons only; that such precautions were withdrawn when the first day of the trial showed them to be needless,
and that during each and all of the three days the trial lasted there
was a large attendance of the public.
There was no proof whatever that he was compelled to give evidence
against himself. On the contrary, it appears that he rose, without any
objection by himself or his counsel, when requested by a juror, in
order to afford the girl he was charged with assaulting a better view;
and that the exclamation of a juror, which occurred after the testimony
had all been given, was treated by all, including the prisoner and his
counsel, as the effect of the proof on an emotional nature, not as
evidence that the juror was not impartial when accepted and sworn,
and consequently nothing was said or done by the prisoner's counsel
with reference to such occurrence, although they had full opportunity.
There was no proof whatever that when new counsel took up his
case after his conviction they were denied the right to file a motion
for a new trial, or to present a bill of exceptions, or to appeal to the
Supreme Court of Tennessee. On the contrary, it appears that no motion for a new trial was presented until after the time allowed for such
motions by the reasonable and long-established rules and practice of
the court had expired, although said counsel had ample time to prepare and file the same before such expiration; and that said counsel
took no steps whatever towards preparing or presenting a bill of exceptions or taking an appeal, although the court remained in session
for an entire week after the conviction of said Johnson and for five
consecutive days after said counsel first appeared.
By reason of the foregoing facts appearing undisputed on the
VOL. ccxiv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

record herein, these defendants are advised and believe, and so aver,
that said petition for a writ of habeas corpus was not an appeal in
good faith to the power and authority vested by the Constitution and
laws of the United States in said Circuit Court; that said Circuit
Court of the United States had no right or authority to entertain said
petition and thereby interfere with the proceedings had and taken by
the judicial authority of the State of Tennessee; and that consequently
the order of said Circuit Court dismissing said petition was not appealable to this honorable court under the decisions and rules of
practice thereof and the Constitution and laws of the United States.
They, therefore, humbly pray the consideration and judgment of
the court in the premises and that said information be dismissed as
against them.
II.
If and in case the court shall find and decide the foregoing cause
shown to be insufficient, then these defendants, as further cause why
they and each of them should not be punished as for contempt of this
honorable court, as prayed in said information, severally and collectively plead and say, that the charges made against them and each
of them respectively in said information are not true, and to each
and every of said, charges, that they are not guilty.
Wherefore these defendants each and all most humbly pray that
the rule herein issued against them be discharged.
The separate answer of defendant Nick Nolan by Lewis
Shepherd, Fleming & Shepherd, attorneys, contained averments as follows:
He denies that he had any connection with or had anything to do
with the mob which attacked the jail of Hamilton County, Tennessee, on the evening and night of the 19th day of March, 1906, when
Ed. Johnson was taken from jail and lynched. This defendant had
no knowledge or information whatever by rumor or otherwise that
a mob was to be formed or was forming to lynch and murder said
Ed. Johnson.
He did not at any time combine, conspire, confederate, or agree
with the persons named in said information or any or either of them,
or with any other person or persons to break and enter the jail of
Hamilton County for the purpose of taking therefrom the person of
Ed. Johnson to lynch and murder him. He did not participate with

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

the mob that broke the jail or with the mob which lynched and murdered said Ed. Johnson. He did not know beforehand that a mob
was to be formed to lynch said Ed. Johnson, and he did not in anyway
aid, abet, counsel, or advise the lynching of said Ed. Johnson, and
did not know anything about the formation of the mob or its work
until after the affair was over, and did not approve the action of the
mob in lynching and murdering the said Ed. Johnson.
Defendant was informed after Johnson was hanged that the mob
attacked the jail at or about the hour of nine o'clock p. m., March 19,
1906.
At that time the defendant was at his place of business on Whiteside street, in South Chattanooga, about two miles from the Hamilton
County jail. About 9.30 o'clock p. m. of said date he left his place
of business and went to the saloon of John Nolan, in South Chattanooga, on Whiteside street. He remained at this saloon until 10 o'clock
p. m., at which time the saloon was closed in pursuance of an ordinance of the city of Chattanooga requiring all saloons to close at
10 o'clock p. m. After the said saloon closed, defendant remained
there or thereabouts with the proprietor, John Nolan, discussing a
question of politics until about 10.30 o'clock p. m., at which time he
went to his home on Aiken street, in South Chattanooga, where he
remained until next morning.
This defendant denies that he ever at any time did any act to show
contempt and disregard for the order of this honorable court or to
prevent this court from hearing the appeal of the said Ed Johnson.
He has always entertained the very highest respect for this honorable
court.
The answers of the defendants Henry Padgett and William
Mayse, against whom the rule was made absolute, and of defendants Claude Powell, Charles J. Powell, Bart Justice, John
Jones, John Varnell and Alfred Handman, as to whom the rule
was discharged, by the same attorneys, were similar in form
mutatis mutandi as to the allegations as to the whereabouts of
each defendant respectively.
The answer of the defendant Paul Werner, W. H. Cummings
and G. W. Chamlee, attorneys, as to whom the rule was subsequently discharged, denied participation and alleged absence
from the place where Ed Johnson was lynched.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

The answer of defendant Luther Williams, W. H. Cummings
and G. W. Chamlee, attorneys.
1st. That he is advised that the Supreme Court of the United States
of America had no jurisdiction of the cause of Ed Johnson, Complainant, v. The State of Tennessee, and that all proceedings had by the
United States Supreme Court in the matter of Ed Johnson, Complainant, v. The State of Tennessee were null and void and illegal.
2d. That the original petition for a writ of habeas corpus that was
sued out by the said Ed Johnson, complainant, against the State of
Tennessee was, as this respondent is advised, addressed to the United States District Court at Chattanooga, Tennessee, and that the
original proceedings were presented and tried before the Hon. C. D.
Clark, judge of the United States court, not at Chattanooga, Tennessee, but at Knoxville, Tennessee, at chambers, and he is advised that
from the dismissal of said petition for the writ of habeas corpus held
at chambers that there is no appeal and that the appeal that the said
Ed Johnson undertook to perfect was, in law, ineffective and that
this honorable court did not acquire jurisdiction of the case, because
a transcript was presented and filed in this honorable court.
3d. He is advised that Ed Johnson was not a United States prisoner, but that he was a state prisoner; and under the charge of state
officials, and that in order to make him a United States prisoner a
different proceeding than that which was had in this cause would be
required to make said proceedings valid under the law.
4th. That if Ed Johnson was, as a matter of law, a United States
prisoner at the time that he was lynched, that no notice of that fact
had ever been conveyed to this respondent by any person whomsoever.
5th. That under the law of the United States and the facts of this
case he is advised that this honorable court had no jurisdiction to
proceed with said cause of Ed Johnson, Appellant, v. The State of
Tennessee, under the facts as alleged in Johnson's petition, and that
the case would, upon motion or demurrer, had to have been dismissed
or stricken from the docket according to the rule laid down in the
case of Caleb Powers v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
6th. Not waiving any of his rights as stated in the foregoing pleas
for want of jurisdiction by this honorable court in this case, but pleading and relying upon the same as a full and complete defense to this
case, this defendant, Luther Williams, now comes and for further
answer to the rule in this cause, and answering so much and such
parts of said information as he is informed is material and proper for
him to answer, says:

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

That he was not an officer and that he did not have Ed Johnson
in his charge, care, or custody at any time or place whatsoever.
He says that he is a business man and runs a saloon at No. 630
Market street, in the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, and that his
place of business is on the east side of Market street, between Sixth
street and Seventh street; and that the county jail of Hamilton
County, Tennessee, is on the west side of Walnut street, between Sixth
and Seventh streets, and that between the county jail and his place
of business there is one cross street.
He further says that the first notice that he had of a mob intending
to assemble at the jail or were assembling at the jail in Chattanooga
on the night of March 19, 1906, was that about 9.30 to 10 o'clock p. m.,
some one came in his saloon and called attention of those present there
that a mob had assembled at the county jail for the purpose of lynching a negro. Inquiry being made, it developed that it was Ed Johnson.
Under a law of the city of Chattanooga, all saloons were required
to close at ten o'clock p. m. every night except Saturday night, and
then at 11 o'clock on Saturday night. March 19, 1906, was on Monday night, as affiant now remembers, and it was nearly closing time
when he received his first information about a mob at the county
jail. He knew that if trouble was about to occur in that neighborhood that all saloons ought to close in order to prevent members of
the mob becoming intoxicated and committing violence, and for this
reason he immediately closed his saloon and in a few minutes went
up to the county jail, which was a distance of about 200 yards, and
when he got there a mob was in control of the jail. A large crowd of
men had their faces covered and were disguised so that no one could
tell who they were and were proceeding to break down the doors of
the jail, and in a very short time after his arrival Johnson was taken
out and carried to the county bridge and lynched.
This respondent saw the lynching; was on the bridge where he
could witness the entire trouble as a spectator with hundreds of other
people who were on the bridge at the time.
He is well known to a number of people who were at his saloon on
the night that Johnson was lynched and who were about the county
jail as spectators at the time, and he was not disguised; made no
effort to conceal his own identity; he had no part whatever in aiding
or counseling the mob to lynch Ed Johnson and had nothing in the
world to do with the entire trouble. Just like people go to see a great
fire or anything else of excitement that is about to happen, he went
up to the jail to see what the mob was doing and what was going to
happen to Johnson.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

He denies that he was a member of said mob or that he had anything to do either by word or action, aiding, or abetting in the alleged
lynching, or that he counseled or conspired or confederated with any
person or persons whomsoever to lynch the said Ed Johnson.
He denies that he endeavored or conspired or confederated or
agreed together or formed a combination with any person to break or
enter the county jail or to lynch the said Ed Johnson or to do any
other act to prevent this honorable court from hearing and determining the appeal of the said Ed Johnson, or to show any contempt for
this honorable court, and he denies each and every allegation made
in the information against him in this cause, that by implication could
be construed to mean that he had aided or consented to the lynching
of the said Ed Johnson, or committed any other act or conspired,
confederated, or agreed to commit any other act, or agreed for any
other person to commit any act towards the lynching of the said Ed
Johnson, or to break or enter the county jail of Hamilton County,
Tennessee, or to prevent this honorable court from hearing the appeal
of the said Ed Johnson, or to show his contempt for the orders of this
honorable court, or to do any other act that would be disrespectful
of this honorable court.
He says that he is not a lawyer, does not know what it takes to vest
this honorable court with jurisdiction of this case, but makes the plea
as to the jurisdiction upon the advice of his lawyers in this cause; but
independent of his pleadings that he can prove that he had no part in
the lynching of Ed Johnson, and that on the merits of his case he
stands ready to show to this honorable court that he is entirely innocent of the charge made against him, and that if an opportunity is
afforded him he will be pleased to present his evidence to sustain his
contention as made in his answer.
He says that after Ed Johnson was lynched that the great crowd
that had congregated at the bridge began to disperse and that he
went to his home, where he spent the remainder of the night; that
this was between ten and eleven o'clock, as he believes.
Wherefore this respondent says that he denies each and every allegation made against him in this cause.
And now having fully answered, he prays to be dismissed from the
requirements of said rule to show cause why he should not be punished
for a contempt of this honorable court.
The answer of defendants William Marquette, Joe V. Williams, attorney; James William Beeler, Head & Ford, attorneys; Frank Ward, John A. Hood, attorney, as to whom

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

the rule was subsequently discharged, denied all participation
in the lynching of Ed Johnson and asserted an alibi and was
accompanied by numerous affidavits as to defendants' whereabouts at the time.
Defendants A. J. Cartwright and R. T. Cartwright, Shumate & Maddox and John H. Early, attorneys, as to whom

the rule was subsequently discharged, answered denying all
knowledge and participation in the lynching of Ed Johnson,
and asserting that they were elsewhere at the time.
On November 12, 1906, on motion of Mr. Solicitor-General
Hoyt, the court assigned the cause for hearing on the preliminary questions of law, without prejudice, on Monday,
December 3.
Motion to set down for hearing on preliminary questions of law, without
prejudice, etc.
The Attorney-General calls up this information in contempt and
shows the court that the answers of all the defendants are now on file,
excepting the answer of Paul Pool, who has not been located and was
not served with process and seems to be a fugitive.
The answers in general set up an alibi or deny connection with the
mob or knowledge of its formation, and plead not guilty. Certain
of the answers also rely upon the contention that this court had no
jurisdiction of the Johnson case. The answer of Shipp and his deputies
prays that the information be dismissed as against them, because the
Circuit Court of the United States had no right or authority to entertain Johnson's petition for habeas corpus, and that consequently the
order of the Circuit Court dismissing the petition was not appealable
to this court.
These averments and contentions raise the question of the jurisdiction to entertain Johnson's case in the Circuit Court and in this court,
and consequently the question of the jurisdiction of this court in this
proceeding and other related preliminary questions of law.
The Attorney-General therefore respectfully suggests that the
court set the case down for hearing under the information and answers
upon these preliminary questions of law, and further suggests that
the court shall, if it sees fit, define the nature and scope of these ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

tions for discussion in the briefs and at the oral argument. Further,
the Attorney-General expressly states that this application to set the
case down for hearing is made without prejudice to the right of the
Government to proceed thereafter as it may be entitled to do and as
it may be advised, upon the merits of the case, by taking testimony
under the claims of alibi and the pleas of not guilty, thereafter presenting the case for final hearing and determination upon the issues
of fact thus made.
The Attorney-General also suggests that the preliminary hearing
on the questions of law, for which application is now made, be set for
December 3 next at the head of the call for that day, and that in any
order which the court may now see fit to make in the premises it will
frame the order so as to operate without prejudice to the ulterior
progress of the case on the merits.
WILLIAM H. MOODY,
Attorney-General.
HENRY M. HOYT,
Solicitor-General.
Argument was heard December 4 and 5, 1906.
For the United States The Solicitor General (Henry M.
Hoyt) with whom the Attorney General (William H. Moody)
was on the brief.
For the defendants Mr. Judson Harmon, Mr. Lewis Shepherd, Mr. G. W. Chamlee and Mr. Robert B. Cooke, with whom
Mr. Robert Pritchard,Mr. Martin A. Fleming and Mr. T. P.
Shepherd were on the brief.
[For abstracts of the arguments and briefs see 203 U. S.
563-570.]
On December 24, 1906, the preliminary questions of law
were decided by the court.
The headnote (prepared by the Reporter) is as follows,
203 U. S. 563:
Even if the Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction
to entertain the petition for habeas corpus of one convicted in the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

state court, and this court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from the
order of the Circuit Court denying the petition, this court, and this
court alone, has jurisdiction to decide whether the case is properly
before it, and, until its judgment declining jurisdiction is announced,
it has authority to make orders to preserve existing conditions, and
a willful disregard of those orders constitutes contempt.
Where the contempt consists of personal presence and overt acts
those charged therewith cannot be purged by their mere disavowal
of intent under oath.
In contempt proceedings the court is not a party; there is nothing that affects the judges in their own persons and their only concern is that the law should be obeyed and enforced.
After an appeal has been allowed by one of the justices of this
court, and an order entered that all proceedings against appellant
be stayed and his custody retained pending appeal, the acts of persons having knowledge of such order, in creating a mob and taking
appellant from his place of confinement and hanging him, constitute contempt of this court, and it is immaterial whether appellant's custodian be regarded as a mere state officer or as bailee of the
United States under the order.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the following opinion, 203

U. S. 571-575.
This is an information charging a contempt of this court, and is
to the following effect. On February 11, 1906, one Johnson, a colored man, was convicted of rape, upon a white woman, in a criminal
court of Hamilton County, in the State of Tennessee, and was sentenced to death. On March 3 he presented a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus to the United States Circuit Court, setting up, among
other things, that all negroes had been excluded, illegally, from the
grand and petit juries; that his counsel had been deterred from pleading that fact or challenging the array on that ground, and also from
asking for a change of venue to secure an impartial trial, or for a continuance to allow the excitement to subside by the fear and danger
of mob violence; and that a motion for a new trial and an appeal were
prevented by the same fear. For these and other reasons it was alleged that he was deprived of various constitutional rights, and was
about to be deprived of his life without due process of law.
On March 10, after a hearing upon evidence, the petition was denied, and it was ordered that the petitioner be remanded to the custody of the sheriff of Hamilton County, to be detained by him in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

custody for a period of ten days, in which to enable the petitioner to
prosecute an appeal, and in default of the prosecution of the appeal
within that time to be then further proceeded with by the state court
under its sentence. On March 17 an appeal to this court was allowed
by Mr. Justice Harlan. On the following Monday, March 19, a similar order was made by this court, and it was ordered further "that
all proceedings against the appellant be stayed and the custody of said
appellant be retained pending this appeal."
The sheriff of Hamilton County was notified by telegraph of the
order, receiving the news before six o'clock on the same day. The
evening papers of Chattanooga published a full account of what this
court had done. And it is alleged that the sheriff and his deputies
were informed, and had reason to believe, that an attempt would be
made that night by a mob to murder the prisoner. Nevertheless, if
the allegations be true, the sheriff early in the evening withdrew the
customary guard from the jail and left only the night jailer in charge.
Subsequently, it is alleged, the sheriff and the other defendants, with
many others unknown, conspired to break into the jail for the purpose
of lynching and murdering Johnson, with intent to show contempt for
the order of this court and for the purpose of preventing it from hearing the appeal and Johnson from exercising his rights. In furtherance
of this conspiracy a mob, including the defendants, except the sheriff,
Shipp, and the night jailer, Gibson, broke into the jail, took Johnson
out and hanged him, the sheriff and Gibson pretending to do their
duty, but really sympathizing with and abetting the mob. The final
acts, as well as the conspiracy, are alleged as a contempt.
The defendants have appeared and answered, and certain preliminary questions of law have been argued which it is convenient and
just to have settled at the outset before any further steps are taken.
The first question, naturally, is that of the jurisdiction of this court.
The jurisdiction to punish for a contempt is not denied as a general
abstract proposition, as, of course, it could not be with success. Ex
parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 302,
303. But it is argued that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction in
the habeas corpus case, unless Johnson was in custody in violation
of the Constitution, Rev. Stat., ยง 753, and that the appellate jurisdiction of this court was dependent on the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
ยง 5 (26 Stat. 827), Ex parte Lennon, 150 U. S. 393, and by that act
did not exist unless the case involved "the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States." If the case did not involve
the application of the Constitution, otherwise than by wak of pretense;
it is said that this court was without jurisdiction, and that its order

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

might be condemned with impunity. And it is urged that an inspection of the evidence before the Circuit Court, if not the face of the
petition, shows that the ground alleged for the writ was only a pretense.
We regard this argument as unsound. It has been held, it is true,
that orders made by a court having no jurisdiction to make them may
be disregarded without liability to process for contempt. Ex parte
Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; Ex parte Rowland,
104 U. S. 604. But even if the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to
entertain Johnson's petition, and if this court had no jurisdiction of
the appeal, this court, and this court alone, could decide that such was
the law. It and it alone necessarily had jurisdiction to decide whether
the case was properly before it. On that question, at least, it was its
duty to permit argument and to take the time required for such consideration as it might need. See Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake Michigan
Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 387. Until its judgment declining
jurisdiction should be announced, it had authority from the necessity
of the case to make orders to preserve the existing conditions and the
subject of the petition, just as the state court was bound to refrain
from further proceedings until the same time. Rev. Stat. ยง 766. Act
of March 3, 1893, c. 226, 27 Stat. 751. The fact that the petitioner was
entitled to argue his case shows what needs no proof, that the law
contemplates the possibility of a decision either way, and therefore
must provide for it. Of course the provision of Rev. Stat. ยง 766, that
until final judgment on the appeal further proceedings in the state
court against the prisoner shall be deemed void, applies to every case.
There is no implied exception if the final judgment shall happen to be
that the writ should not have issued or that the appeal should be dismissed.
It is proper that we should add that we are unable to agree with the
premises upon which the conclusion just denied is based. We cannot
regard the grounds upon which the petition for habeas corpus was
presented as frivolous or a mere pretense. The murder of the petitioner has made it impossible to decide that case, and what we have
said makes it unnecessary to pass upon it as a preliminary to deciding
the question before us. Therefore we shall say no more than that it
does not appear to us clear that the subject-matter of the petition was
beyond the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and that, in our opinion,
the facts that might have been found would have required the gravest
and most anxious consideration before the petition could have been
denied.
Another general question is to be answered at this time. The de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

fendants severally have denied under oath in their answer that they
had anything to do with the murder. It is urged that the sworn
answers are conclusive, that if they are false the parties may be prosecuted for perjury, but that in this proceeding they are to be tried, if
they so elect, simply by their oaths. It has been suggested that the
court is a party and therefore leaves the fact to be decided by the
defendant. But this is a mere afterthought to explain something not
understood. The court is not a party. There is nothing that affects
the judges in their own persons. Their concern is only that the law
should be obeyed and enforced, and their interest is no other than
that they represent in every case. On this occasion we shall not go
into the history of the notion. It may be that it was an intrusion or
perversion of the canon law, as is suggested by the propounding of
interrogatories and the very phrase, purgation by oath (juramentum
purgatorium). If so, it is. a fragment of a system of proof which does
not prevail in theory or as a whole, and the reason why it has not disappeared perhaps may be found in the rarity with which contempts
occur. It may be that even now, if the sole question were the intent
of an ambiguous act, the proposition would apply. But in this case
it is a question of personal presence and overt acts. If the presence
and the acts should be proved there would be little room for the disavowal of intent. And when the acts alleged consist in taking part
in a murder it cannot be admitted that a general denial and affidavit
should dispose of the case. The outward facts are matters known to
many and they will be ascertained by testimony in the usual way.
The question was left open in Ex parte Savin, 131 U. S. 267, with a
visible leaning toward the conclusion to which we come, and that
conclusion has been adopted by state courts in decisions entitled to
respect. Huntington v. McMahon, 48 Connecticut, 174, 200, 201.
State v. Matthews, 37 N. H. 450, 455. Bates's Case, 55 N. H. 325, 527.
Matter of Snyder, 103 N. Y. 178, 181. Crow v. State, 24 Texas, 12, 114.
State v. Harper'sFerry Bridge Co., 16 W. Va. 864, 873. See Wartman
v. Wartman, Taney, 362, 370. Cartwright's Case, 114 Massachusetts,
230. Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31. Whether or not
Rev. Stat. ยง 725 applies to this court, it embodies the law so far as it
goes. We see no reason for emasculating the power given by that
section, and making it so nearly futile as it would be if it were construed to mean that all contemnors willing to run the slight risk of a
conviction for perjury can escape.
The question was touched, in argument, whether the acts charged
constitute a contempt. We are of opinion that they do, and that their
character does not depend upon a nice inquiry, whether, after the order

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

made by this court, the sheriff was to be regarded as bailee of the
United States or still held the prisoner in the name of the State alone.
Either way, the order suspended further proceedings by the State
against the prisoner and required that he should be forthcoming to
abide the further order of this court. It may be found that what
created the mob and led to the crime was the unwillingness of its members to submit to the delay required for the trial of the appeal. From
that to the intent to prevent that delay and the hearing of the appeal
is a short step. If that step is taken the contempt is proved.
These preliminaries being settled the trial of the case will proceed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision.

And on December 24, 1906, the following entry appears of
record:
The opinion of the court on the preliminary questions of law herein
was delivered by MR. JUSTIE HOLMES (MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no

part) and the cause was ordered to proceed.
On January 14, 1907, there was filed the following:
Motion to arrest defendants and require recognizances to abide the future
orders of the court.
The court having decided the preliminary questions of law herein
against the defendants and ordered the case to proceed, the AttorneyGeneral moves the court to order writs of attachment to issue that
the said defendants may be brought into court and required to enter
into recognizances, in such sums, respectively, as to the court shall
seem adequate and proper, conditioned for their appearance whenever required and to abide the future orders of the court herein, said
recognizances to be given, with good and sufficient sureties, approved
by this court, unless it shall seem to the court appropriate that the
said defendants, or any of them, should be permitted to appear and
furnish such recognizances before the judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, in conformity with
or by analogy to the provisions of section 1014 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, in which event it is further moved that the sureties be approved by the said judge and by the justice of this court
assigned to the Sixth Circuit.
CHARLES

J.

BONAPARTE,

Attorney-General.
HENRY

M.

HOYT,

Solicitor-General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

The motion on behalf of the defendant Shipp and his
deputies prayed that the witnesses named
Be ordered to be subpoenaed to attend at such time and place as
the court may designate for hearing the testimony in this cause, and
that it be ordered by the court that the costs incurred by the process
of subpoena, including the fees and mileage of said witnesses, be paid
by the United States, in the same manner that similar costs and fees
are paid in case of witnesses subpoenaed in behalf of the United States,
or in lieu of this that the court, if it deems the same expedient, direct
that the testimony be taken in this cause by a commissioner duly appointed and to sit at Chattanooga or some other designated point in the
Southern Division of the Eastern District of Tennessee.
The motions on behalf of several of the defendants also

prayed that:
Affiant is not possessed with sufficient means and is actually unable
to pay the fees of said witnesses, and he prays the court to order them
to be subpoenaed, and to direct that the costs incurred by the process
and the fees of the witnesses shall be paid in the same manner that
similar costs and fees are paid in case of witnesses subpoenaed in behalf of the United States.
On January 14, 1907, there was filed the following:
Motion for the summoning of witnesses and to take testimony herein.
In order that the facts may be ascertained by the court as to the
connection of the defendants herein with the matters which the court
has held constituted contempt of its authority, the Attorney-General
moves the court to take testimony herein as to the complicity of the
defendants in such matters, and to examine, under oath, to be administered by the court, any witnesses ordered to be summoned in behalf
of the United States or of the defendants, subpoenas therefor to be
issued by the clerk of this court, with full rights of cross-examination
and objection as to the admission of evidence and the competency of
witnesses to counsel for both parties; such evidence to be taken in
open court unless it shall appear to the court appropriate to appoint a
commissioner or examiner to receive and record the same, and then to
report such testimony, with any exceptions thereto made as aforesaid,
forthwith to the court.
CHARLES

J. BONAPARTE,
Attorney-General.

HENRY

M.

HOYT,

Solicitor-General.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

And also motions on behalf of certain of the defendants
for the summoning of witnesses at the expense of the Govern-

ment.
On January 14, 1907, Mr. Attorney General Bonaparte, of
counsel for the complainant, submitted to the consideration
of the court a motion to arrest the defendants herein and to
require them to enter into recognizances to abide the future
orders of the court and also a motion as to taking testimony
herein, and leave was granted to counsel for defendants to
file a brief in reply thereto.
And afterwards, to wit, on January 17, 1907, defendants
Shipp and others filed the following brief:
MOTION

FOR ARREST,

ETC.

The only object of issuing attachments is to bring before the court
the parties charged with contempt so that they may be heard, if
defense they have. Rapalje on Contempts, ยง 100.
This course is discretionary with the court when there is any other
mode of procedure open. The usual practice is by a rule to show
cause. (Rapalje on Contempts, ยง 9, 103; United States v. Anonymous,
21 Fed. Rep. 761.)
The Government did not ask for attachments in the information,
but very properly followed the usual practice, praying only for the
issuance and service of "a rule to show cause, if any there be, on a day
certain, why said defendants and each of them should not be punished
as and for a contempt of this honorable court."
According to some authorities the personal appearance of the
parties might have been required. (Rapalje on Contempts, ยง 109.)
But the Government acquiesced in their appearance by counsel and
by answers personally signed and verified.
The preliminary matters set up in those answers have been held
insufficient cause, and the proceeding now stands as to each defendant
on his denial, under positive oath, of the offense charged. This is
surely sufficient cause as against an'information verified only on information and belief until the Government produces proof. We submit that the production of that proof is now the only course open to it.
The Government has waived its right to an interlocutory attachment, if it had such right. It has waived the personal attendance of
the defendants in answer to the rule. Now, as against their sworn
denials, it asks, merely on its naked information, that the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

be arrested and committed in default of bail. There is no attempt to
show any facts to justify a different course from that taken in the
prayer of the information.
We submit that to grant this motion would subject the defendants
to hardship and indignity which the state of the record does not justify
and which would violate the presumption of innocence this court has
so strongly upheld.
As to Joseph F. Shipp, sheriff, and his deputies, all this has peculiar force. They are officers of justice of the State of Tennessee.
Their time is required in the service of the courts and the preservation of the peace in that State. Courtesy to the State and the tribunals they serve makes regard for the presumption of their innocence highly appropriate as well as just.
MOTION

TO TAKE TESTIMONY.

We consent, of course, to the taking of testimony. We consent,
too, for the convenience of the court, that the testimony be taken
by some disinterested person to be appointed by the court for that
purpose.
We pray, however, that the person so appointed be directed to take
the testimony at Chattanooga, where all the witnesses on both sides
reside. If it should be found that any reside elsewhere we consent to
taking their testimony wherever desired.
I am informed and believe, and so state to the court, that the defendants are almost without exception unable to bear the expense of
traveling to Washington and remaining there during the hearing, as
they would have to do or submit to a practical denial of justice. To
compel them to attend a hearing away from home would be in itself
a severe punishment, and trial should precede punishment. The
analogies of the Constitution and the laws, too, make the place where
the offense is charged to have been committed the appropriate one for
the taking of the proof. As the sheriff and all his deputies are parties,
their absence from their homes would also work harm to the course of
business in the courts and to the preservation of the peace of their
county.
Respectfully submitted.
Mr. Jud'onHarmon, Clift & Cooke and Mr. Robert Pritchard,
attorneys for Joseph F. Shipp and others.
On January 21, 1907, the following entries appear of record,
viz. :

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

October Term, 1906.

No. 12. Original.

On consideration of the motion to require the defendants
herein to enter into recognizances for their appearances hereafter,
It is now here ordered by the court that the defendants in
this cause enter into their personal recognizances in the penal
sum of $1,000 each, conditioned to abide the further orders
of the court before the judge of the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
On consideration of the motion as to the taking of testimony
herein,
It is now here ordered by the court that a commissioner
will be appointed to take the testimony of witnesses at Chattanooga, in the Eastern District of Tennessee, and counsel on
both sides are given ten days in which to agree upon a fit
person for such appointment and communicate the nomination to the court.
On January 25, 1907, the Attorney General filed the following:
Suggestion in reply to brief for certain defendants on motion to take

testimony.
In the brief filed by certain of the defendants reasons are suggested
why the testimony should be taken at Chattanooga, and the court's
order directing that it shall be taken before a commissioner appears
to designate Chattanooga as the place. The Attorney-General now
respectfully requests the court to reconsider this designation and to
designate the city of Washington, at least for the purpose of taking
the testimony of witnesses for the United States, for the following
reasons:

1. The defendants themselves need not attend the hearings in
Washington unless, as is unlikely, they wish to be personally present,
and their counsel will probably find it no serious hardship to come to
Washington.
2. If the defendants are, in fact, inconvenienced and suffer some
hardship through loss of time or money, or both, these are ordinary
and necessary incidents of their situation. They rest under a charge
which must be tried. A prima facie case has been made out, in the
VOL. ccxiv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

sense that proofs against them are now to be offered and they are
called upon to meet the charge. It may be fairly assumed that it is
not wholly without their own fault that they are in this position. Defendants generally must attend the trial court at its usual place of
session, either personally or by counsel. The official duties of some
among them need not, and should not, change that rule in this case.
The entire sheriff's force need not be withdrawn from Hamilton County
merely to listen to the testimony for the United States; and it is right
and customary, not harsh and arbitrary, to bring witnesses from any
part of a district to the court. The court does not go to them. The
entire country is the district in the present case, and the court only
sits in Washington; the city of Washington, then, is the natural place
for the taking of the testimony. This is none the less true because an
officer of the court and not the court itself is to take the testimony,
and because the defendants have the right to be present, if they are
not compelled to be present.
3. It seems to us very important that the testimony should be
taken under the eye and direct control of the court, to afford opportunities for immediate reference to the court by, and instructions
from the court to, the commissioner in connection with unexpected
incidents which may readily occur during the examination of witnesses in a case like this one, wholly without precedent.
4. Finally, it is submitted that the locality where this terrible
occurrence took place, and where (as appears from the crime itself,
from the record in Johnson's case, and from the oral argument herein
on the preliminary questions of law) the feelings of certain portions
of the community have been and are still greatly excited, is an unsuitable place for this examination, at least of the witnesses for the
United States. In that locality the real facts can not be elicited in a
calm and dispassionate atmosphere, free from the danger that local
prejudice and a sense of personal insecurity may stifle or check the
full and frank utterances of the witnesses for the prosecution; and the
Attorney-General deems it his duty to advise the court that confidential information in the possession of the Department of Justice, of
a character entitled to credit, indicates that witnesses for the United States may reasonably, and will in fact, entertain apprehensions
of danger to themselves if they testify at Chattanooga.
On January 28, 1907, on motion of Mr. Solicitor General
Hoyt, leave was granted counsel for the defendants to file
briefs in opposition to the suggestions of the Attorney General
as to taking testimony in this cause and on January 29, 1907,

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

on behalf of certain defendants there was filed the following
brief opposing the motion of the Attorney General to require
witnesses to be examined at Washington, D. C., instead of
Chattanooga, Tenn.
The court is familiar with the proceedings of this cause, and this
brief is presented in opposition to a motion of the Attorney-General,
which motion means, if granted, that all the witnesses for the Government in these cases must be examined at Washington, D. C., instead
of at Chattanooga, Tennessee.
The reason why the defendants oppose this motion is that they are
all poor men, except the sheriff, and not able to pay the expenses of
going from Chattanooga to Washington and there remaining, with
their attorneys, during the time that the Government will be taking
its proof. It cannot be said that this proof can be heard in their
absence, because the charges are serious, and the court has laid down
the rule that in contempt cases the defendants are entitled to meet
the witnesses face to face. If this hearing is to be had at Washington
and the proof taken there, it will practically amount to a denial of
justice, because the defendants do not know what the Government's
proof will be, nor just which of the defendants are liable to be affected
by any witness. It is necessary, therefore, for all of them to be present
at this hearing. The defense of the officers and the alleged lynchers is
not necessarily the same, and there is no one attorney in the case in a
position to represent them all; so that it becomes necessary for most
all the attorneys who have been actively engaged in these cases to
attend these hearings. We say that there is no reason in the world
why the witnesses for the Government should not tell the facts about
this case at Chattanooga, Tennessee, just as freely as at any other
place. And if after the hearing has commenced at Chattanooga any
witness is intimidated, the court has power to change the place of the
hearing and also to punish the offending party, if such a case were
possible. Public opinion is in a mood now to hear freely, frankly, and
unreservedly all the facts of this case at Chattanooga without intimidation towards anybody.
To take these witnesses away from Chattanooga and deprive these
defendants of the right to meet them face to face, as must necessarily
result, is a great hardship upon them, and particularly so if they are
innocent, as they claim to be, and especially on account of their
poverty.
Many of these defendants have heretofore filed their affidavits
showing that they are unable to pay the expenses of their own wit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

nesses to the city of Washington, and they now appeal to your honors
not to have this hearing at Washington, because it imposes hardships
upon them that they cannot bear, and is as to some of them a denial
of justice.
We most respectfully and earnestly insist that there is no sound
reason or foundation for the argument that the witnesses for the Government will testify to facts in Washington, D. C., that they are unwilling to tell at the home of the witnesses and when surrounded by
their own families and friends. Besides, the law is sufficient to protect
the witnesses, and there ought not to be a precedent established by
this court that its commissioner or examiner was unable to get the
truth out of witnesses because of the sentiment at the place of the
hearing being reported as favorable to the accused when the law presumes the accused innocent of the charges against him.
We most earnestly submit that this honorable court should not
make an order in these cases that will prevent the defendants from
having the fullest opportunity to show their innocence in this case,
and for that reason the motion of the Attorney-General should be
overruled.
Geo. W. Chamlee, Lewis Shepherd, attorneys.
On January 31, 1907, the following nomination to the court
of a commissioner to take the testimony was filed.
The Attorney-General has the honor to report that counsel of record for the defendants unite with him in the nomination to the court
of James D. Maher, Esq., of the District of Columbia, to take the testimony of the witnesses in this cause.
And on the same day Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt, of counsel
for the complainant, submitted the nomination to the consideration of the court.
On February 2, 1907, there was filed the following answer
of Joseph F. Shipp, sheriff, and his deputies, to suggestion
of Attorney General as to taking testimony.
The Attorney-General asks this court to reconsider its order designating Chattanooga as the place of taking testimony in this case,
and requests that the city of Washington be designated, at least for
the purpose of taking testimony of witnesses for the United States.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

And now come the defendants, Joseph F. Shipp, Frank Jones,
Matthew Galloway, C. A. Baker, T. V. Taylor, Fred Frawley, George
Brown, Jeremiah Gibson, Marion Perkins, and Joseph Clark, defendants, being the said sheriff and his deputies, and respectfully show to
the court that the granting of said request would work great hardship upon them and might result in actual injustice.
These defendants were, at the time of the happening of the matters
and things complained of in the information of the Attorney-General,
officers of Hamilton County, Tennessee, sworn to uphold the law,
and occupying positions which the public welfare required should be
filled by persons who respected the law, and who would obey it.
The information not only charges them with failure to uphold the
law, but with having become parties to a conspiracy to dethrone the
law and substitute in its place mob violence, the antithesis of law.
A conviction of these defendants under the charges of the information involves not only the crime and infamy of perjury, but the guilt
of conspiracy to murder.
These defendants have heretofore, prior to the filing of the information in this case, enjoyed the respect and confidence of their fellowcitizens, and it is of the utmost importance to them that their good
names be not destroyed unless they are convicted after a full, fair,
and impartial trial.
It is not the purpose of the United States to inflict wrong upon any
of its citizens, however humble. These defendants verily believe that
the granting of the request of the Attorney-General would do them
grievous wrong. Every one of these defendants is entitled to be confronted by the witnesses against him. It has been shown by affidavits
that many of them are not able to attend the taking of the testimony
at Washington. It would be impossible for all of the counsel for all
of the defendants to be present all the time, and a false witness might
escape proper cross-examination and might leave an impression of
truth. The presence of the defendants, when witnesses for the prosecution are being examinvd, is an important right, one that should not
be denied. The defendants are not only entitled to the aid of counsel,
but counsel are entitled to the assistance of the defendants.
It is true that these defendants rest under a charge which must be
tried, but they submit that they are entitled to a trial which will give
them the right to be present, so that they may have the privilege
accorded to the meanest criminal of being faced by their accusers.
This right will be practically denied should the testimony be taken in
Washington.
The Attorney-General suggests that it may be fairly assumed that

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

it is not wholly without their own fault that these defendants are
placed in the position which they would be placed were his request
granted, but these defendants are unable to reconcile this assumption
with the presumption of innocence which the law accords to them.
Answering the further suggestion that Washington is the proper
place for the hearing of testimony because the court sits at Washington for the whole United States, these defendants say that the court
has already decided that it will not hear oral testimony and has allowed counsel for both parties to nominate a commissioner to take
the testimony.
The suggestion contained in paragraph three (3) is equally without merit, because it is impossible to conceive of this tribunal allowing separate hearings on every "unexpected incident which may
readily occur during the examination of witnesses," it being the duty
of the commissioner to act upon exceptions to testimony, as well as
"unexpected incidents."
Finally, these defendants solemnly deny the averments contained
in the fourth paragraph of the suggestion of the Attorney-General.
They deny that there is any foundation in fact for the serious and
unusual charge, confessedly based upon secret information to which
neither the defendants nor this honorable court have access, that
Chattanooga is, for any reason, an unsuitable place to take the testimony of witnesses. They deny that the real facts cannot be elicited
there in "a calm and dispassionate atmosphere." They deny that
the testimony would be colored or suppressed by local prejudice
or any sense of personal insecurity, or that full and frank utterance
of the truth by witnesses for or against these defendants would be
"stifled or checked." Whatever may be the character of the "confidential information" to which the Attorney-General refers, these defendants deny that any witness for the United States could reasonably or would, in fact, entertain any apprehension whatever of danger
if he testified at Chattanooga.
Defendants respectfully submit that the charges contained in said
paragraph 4 that the feelings of the community are excited, that the
truth would be suppressed from prejudice or from a sense of personal
insecurity, or from any other cause, are based upon information of an
unreliable character or upon a mistaken conception of the facts.
The "confidential" character of the information referred to by the
Attorney-General precludes an investigation of its reliability by these
defendants; but in opposition thereto these defendants present herewith the affidavits of D. L. Snodgrass, J. W. Bachman, C. A. Lyerly,
Win. L. Frierson, J. T. Moseley, T. S. Wilcox, G. G. Fletcher and

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S. -

Appendix.

M. M. Allison, whose positions in the community indicate their character and standing. Wherefore these defendants pray, etc.
On February 4, 1907, the following order appointing commissioner to take testimony was entered:
This cause coming on to be heard in respect of the appointment of
a special commissioner to take testimony herein, and the parties,
duly appearing by their counsel, having agreed upon a fit person for
such appointment and communicated their nomination to the court:
It is ordered that Mr. James D. Maher, a resident of the District
of Columbia, be, and he is hereby, appointed a commission to take
and return the testimony in this proceeding, with the powers of a
master in chancery, as provided in the rules of this court; but said
commissioner shall not make any findings of fact or state any conclusions of law.
It is further ordered that the taking of the testimony shall be commenced at the city of Chattanooga, in the Eastern District of Tennessee, as soon as possible, at such place as the commissioner shall
designate, reasonable notice thereof to be given counsel on both sides,
and be proceeded in with all convenient speed; and the commissioner
is hereby authorized also to take testimony elsewhere if that shall be
agreed on by counsel or appear to be necessary, with leave to him or
to either of the parties to apply to the court for such orders in that
regard as they may be advised.
Said commissioner shall promptly report to the court the testimony
taken by him, without findings of fact or conclusion of law, and shall
receive such compensation as may hereafter be determined, and his
actual expenses, an itemized statement of which shall accompany his
report.
On February 6, 1907, the oath of James D. Maher as commissioner herein was filed in the words and figures following,
viz.:
I, James D. Maher, commissioner appointed by the Supreme Court
of the United States to take and return the testimony in the cause of
The United States of America, complainant, vs. John F. Shipp et al.
(No. 12, Original, October term, 1906), do solemnly swear that I will
faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

volved on me as such commissioner, according to the best of my
ability and understanding. So help me God.
JAMES D. MAHER.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 5th day of February, 1906.
[SEAL.]

JAMES H. McKENNEY,

Clerk of the Supreme Court o/ the United States.
The Commissioner proceeded to Chattanooga and executed
the commission.
The following stipulations were entered into as to the taking
of testimony and appear in the record:
In this cause it is stipulated and agreed that after the testimony is
reduced to typewriting it shall be submitted to counsel for the several
parties and promptly examined, and unless counsel find material
errors in the same the testimony may be signed by the commissioner,
with the same force and effect as if signed by each witness. In the
event material errors are found, they shall be called to the attention
of the commissioner and the usual course shall be taken in reference
thereto.
In this cause, to save the time and expense of taking proof as to
the matters hereinafter referred to, it is stipulated and agreed as
follows:
That on the 11th day of February, 1906, one Ed Johnson, a citizen
of the United States and a resident and citizen of the State of Tennessee, and a colored person of African descent, was convicted of the
crime of rape in the criminal court of Hamilton County, held at the
city of Chattanooga, in the State of Tennessee, and said court thereupon sentenced the said Ed Johnson to suffer the penalty of death.
That on the 3d day of March, 1906, and before the date set for the
execution of the said Ed Johnson, a petition for a writ of habeas corpus,
signed by the said Ed Johnson as petitioner, was duly presented to
the United States Circuit Court for the Northern Division of the
Eastern District of Tennessee in which it was alleged, among other
things, that upon the trial of the said Ed Johnson in the criminal
court of Hamilton County, in the State of Tennessee, for the crime of
rape, for which he had been convicted, said petitioner had been denied
a trial by a fair and impartial jury, and had been denied the aid of
counsel in violation of the fifth and sixth amendments to the Federal
Constitution, and that said petitioner was also denied rights secured
to him under the fourteenth amendment to the Federal Constitution;

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

that thereafter, to wit, on the 10th day of March, 1906, the application
of the said Ed Johnson for a writ of habeas corpus came on for hearing
before the said United States Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee upon the petition, return, answer, and replication, and upon the
testimony of witnesses given orally in open court, and after argument
of counsel the said Circuit Court ordered that said petition be dismissed and that the writ of habeas corpus prayed for in said petition
be denied, and further ordered that said petitioner be remanded to the
custody of the sheriff of said Hamilton County, in the State of Tennessee, to be detained by said sheriff in his custody for the period of
ten days in which to enable said petitioner to prosecute an appeal from
said order should he be so advised and should an appeal lie from
said order, and in default of the prosecution of an appeal within said
time to be then further proceeded with by the court of the State of
Tennessee under its sentence.
That thereafter, on the 17th day of March, 1906, an application
was duly presented by the said Ed Johnson to the Hon. John M.
Harlan, an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States,
assigned to the sixth circuit, asking that an appeal be allowed to the
Supreme Court of the United States from the judgment rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern Division of the
Eastern District of Tennessee on March 10, 1906, denying his, the said
Ed Johnson's, application for a writ of habeas corpus, as aforesaid,
which said appeal was on the same day allowed by Mr. Justice Harlan.
That on the 19th day of March, 1906, a motion was duly made in
the Supreme Court of the United States by counsel for and representing the said Ed Johnson for an order allowing an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States from the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern Division of the
Eastern District of Tennessee, rendered on the 10th day of March,
1906, denying his, the said Ed Johnson's, application for a writ of
habeas corpus, which motion was thereupon granted by the Supreme
Court of the United States and an order duly made and entered by
the Chief Justice in the words and figures following, to wit:
ED JOHNSON, APPELLANT,
VS.

]

THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

On motion of Mr. E. M. Hewlett, of counsel for the appellant, it
is ordered by the court that an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee be, and the same
is hereby, allowed, and that all proceedings against the appellant be

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

stayed, and the custody of the said appellant be retained pending
this appeal.
Per MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER.
That there was also published and circulated in said city of Chattanooga in the evening paper on the said 19th day of March, 1906,
before six o'clock p. m., an account of the action of the Supreme Court
of the United States in allowing an appeal and granting a stay of
further proceedings on the part of the state courts against the said
Ed Johnson until the determination of said appeal before the Supreme
Court of the United States.
That during all the times herein mentioned, and on and subsequent
to March 19th, 1906, the above-named defendant, J. F. Shipp, was
the duly elected, qualified, and acting sheriff of Hamilton County, in
the State of Tennessee, and as such sheriff had and exercised full
charge and control of the county jail, located in the city of Chattanooga, in said county, and was the legal custodian under the laws of
Tennessee of all persons duly committed in said county under the
laws of said State to confinement and imprisonment within said jail;
and that the defendants, Frank Jones, Matthew Galloway, C. A.
Baker, Fred Frauley, George Brown, Jeremiah Gibson, Marion Perkins,
and each of them, were, during all the times herein mentioned, and on
and subsequent to March 19, 1906, the duly appointed, qualified, and
acting deputy sheriffs of said county and State under the said J. F.
Shipp.
It is further agreed that this stipulation may be offered before the
commissioner by either the complainant or defendant as evidence of
any part or all of the matters hereinbefore stipulated. Provided,
however, that no admission is made as to the competency or relevancy
of any of the facts above stated, this stipulation being merely intended as proof of the facts above stipulated with the same force and
effect as if duly proven by the testimony of witnesses and to be subject in all respects to the same exceptions as the testimony of witnesses would be; all parties expressly reserving the right to except
to any portion of this stipulation when introduced in evidence upon
any ground relating to the competency, relevancy, or admissibility
of the subject-matter to which this stipulation relates.
The following took place before the Commissioner:
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Sanford: I thought that had
been submitted to all of the counsel. It was so intended.
That, I understand, is agreed to by all of the counsel and we
will have it drawn up in proper form.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

In regard to the matter of the telegram sent by the clerk of
the Supreme Court of the United States, it was agreed by counsel to whom the matter has been mentioned that the Comnmissioner's personal statement may be taken as evidence in
the matter of when that telegram was sent and its contents.
The COMMISSIONER: This telegram was sent by myself, for
the clerk, on the day it is dated, March 19th, in the neighborhood of one o'clock in the afternoon. I delivered it personally
at the telegraph office in the corridor of the House of Representatives in the Capitol at Washington, and pre-paid it; and
this copy was made under my direction before I left Washington.
The copy was put in the record.
On October 14, 1907, the United States moved the court to
file the reports of James D. Maher, esquire, special commissioner herein, as to the taking of testimony and as to his expenses.
And on October 14, 1907, on motion of Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Sanford, of counsel for the complainant, it
was ordered that the testimony taken herein be opened, published, and filed; also on same day and on motion of Mr. Assistant Attorney General Sanford, of counsel for the complainant, leave was granted to file the reports of the Commissioner
as to the taking of testimony and as to his expenses in connection therewith, and also stipulations of counsel as to facts,
as to the taking of the testimony, and as to the misnomer of
certain defendants.
On October 14, 1907, a motion was made for leave to file
stipulations as to misnomer of certain defendants, as to taking
of testimony, and as to certain agreed facts.
And on October 14, 1907, the reports of the Commissioner
as to taking testimony and as to expenses were filed as follows:
To the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
The undersigned commissioner appointed by an order entered in this
cause on the 4th day of February, 1907, to take and return such evidence as the parties to said cause should produce, respectfully reports

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

to the court that pursuant to the said order he opened the commission
conferred on him in the United States court room in the city of Chattanooga, State of Tennessee, on Tuesday, February 12, 1907, at 10
o'clock a. in., and, the counsel for the respective parties being present,
proceeded to execute the said commission on that day and on the
13th, 14th, and 15th days of the same month, when, on the suggestion
of the counsel for the complainant, an adjournment was taken. Pursuant to notice given by the undersigned to counsel for the respective
parties, the taking of testimony in the cause was resumed at the same
place on Monday, June 10, 1907, and continued on the 11th, 12th,
13th, 14th, 15th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th,
28th, and 29th days of the same month, on which last-named day,
the parties not offering any more testimony, the commission was closed.
The said commission was executed by receiving the testimony of the
several witnesses named in the testimony, who were sworn to testify
to the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth before giving
their evidence, and the testimony so given by them was taken down
by a stenographer in the presence of the undersigned, and is herewith
submitted, together with the exhibits offered in evidence.
Said testimony and exhibits, contained in 20 typewritten volumes
containing 2,283 pages, have been deposited with the clerk of this
honorable court.
Respectfully submitted.
JAMES D. MAHER,
Commissioner.
To the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
Pursuant to the order of this honorable court entered on the 4th
day of February, 1907, appointing the undersigned as commissioner
to take and return the testimony in the above-entitled cause and
directing a statement of actual expenses incurred in the taking of
said testimony to be submitted, I beg leave to state that it became
necessary to travel to the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, on two
separate occasions-in February and June, 1907-and the expenses
of the commissioner were as follows:
In February:
Railroad fares .............................
$48 15
Cabs and baggage ..........................
1 60
Room at hotel .............................
15 00
Meals ....................................
16 15
Telegrams ................................
1 46
$82 36

$82 36

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.
$82 36

Amount carried forward
In June:
Railroad fares .............................
Cabs and baggage ..........................
H otel bill ................................
Meals on trains and at club ..................
Telegram s ................................

$43
2
83
5
1

00
50
75
75
69

$136 69 $136 69
$219 05

Making a total of ................................
Respectfully submitted.
JAMES

D. MAIER,
Commissioner.

On November 4, 1907, the following order was made:
It is now here ordered by the court that Mr. James D. Maher, the
commissioner appointed by this court to take and return the testimony in this cause, be, and he is hereby, allowed the sum of $800.00 in
full for his compensation and expenses, and that said sum be paid by
the complainant herein.
And on April 22, 1908, the following motion for leave to
take additional testimony was made:
The Solicitor-General appearing for and on behalf of the United
States, moves the court to reopen the hearing of testimony in this
case and to reappoint Mr. James D. Maher as commissioner for the
purpose of taking and returning additional testimony to the court
in this behalf.
In support of this motion the Solicitor-General shows and represents to the court that under the original order of reference to the
said commissioner the Government and the defendants took their
testimony in the city of Chattanooga, Tenn., in the year 1907, and
closed their case in June of that year; that said commissioner subsequently made his report as to the taking of testimony, which was
opened, published, and filed pursuant to an order of court; that while,
since the taking of testimony was closed as aforesaid, the Government
has made no further effort to find additional testimony, the Department of Justice recently and unexpectedly was informed that two
persons who were not examined on the former hearing were eye-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

witnesses of part of the incidents connected with the lynching of the
prisoner, Ed Johnson, which is involved in this information, and
could identify two of the defendants herein as connected therewith;
that the department thereupon caused this matter to be inquired
into through the office of the United States attorney for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, and was advised by him that these two persons
will so testify and will identify two of the defendants in question.
The Solicitor-General further represents and shows to the court
that he is advised that these two parties did not previously make
known their knowledge of these facts in reference to this matter on
account of fear, and that there was no means by which the Government could have been previously advised as to the information which
they possessed or could have obtained their testimony on the former
hearing.
The Solicitor-General further represents and shows to the court
that this application for leave to take additional testimony is not
made for purposes of delay, but solely that justice may be done and
all material evidence brought to the atteition of the court.
He therefore prays that the taking of testimony may be reopened,
and that the said James D. Maher may be reappointed as commissioner,
with the same powers as under his original appointment, and may bic
directed to proceed at an early ahd convenient date to the city of
Chattanooga, Tenn., there to take the testimony of the two witnesses
in question, together with any rebuttal testimony which any of the
defendants may desire to offer in that behalf, or further testimony
which may be rendered necessary in behalf of the Government by
reason of such rebuttal evidence, if any, and to report such additional
testimony to the court.
Respectfully submitted.
HENRY M. HOYT,

Solicitor-General.
The defendants submitted the following answer to motion
for leave to take additional testimony:
The defendants Joseph F. Shipp, Frank Jones, Matthew Galloway,
C. A. Baker, Fred Frawley, and Marion Perkins, appearing by their
attorneys, Judson Harmon, Robert Pritchard, James J. Lynch, M. H.
Clift, and Robert B. Cooke; the defendants T. B. Taylor and George
Brown, appearing by their attorney, T. W. Stanfield; the defendant
Jeremiah Gibson, appearing by his attorneys, Clift & Cooke; the defendant Joseph Clark, appearing by his attorneys, Spears & Lynch;
the defendants Claude Powell, Nick Nolen, Chas. J. Powell, Bart

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

Justice, John Jones, Henry Padgett, William May, John Varnell, and
Alfred Handman, appearing by their attorneys, Lewis Shepherd and
Shepherd & Fleming; the defendants "Sheenie" Warner and Luther
Williams, appearing by their attorney, G. W. Chamlee; the defendant
William Beeler, appearing by his attorneys, Ford & Chamlee and G.
W. Chamlee; the defendants W. J. Cartwright and R. F. Cartwright,
appearing by their attorneys, S. P. Maddox and John H. Early; the
defendant Frank Ward, appearing by his attorneys, G. W. Chamlee
and John A. Hood; and the defendant William Marquette, appearing
by his attorney, Joe V. Williams, answering the petition of the SolicitorGeneral for leave to take additional testimony in this case say:
1. It is true that much proof has been taken in this case both by
the Government and the defendants, and the defendants closed their
proof in June, 1907; the report of the commissioner has been made
and the testimony opened, published, and filed. It is likewise probably true that the Government made no effort to find additional
evidence after the closing of the testimony.
2. These defendants take it for granted that the statement that the
Department of Justice has received the information set out in the
motion is true. But they call the attention of the honorable court
to the vague and meagre statements of the motion upon this subject.
The names of the two persons who are supposed to have been eyewitnesses of "part of the incidents connected with the lynching of
the prisoner, Ed Johnson," are not given. The nature of the "part
of the incidents" they saw is not stated. The names of the "two
defendants" whom it is supposed these witnesses "could identify as
connected therewith" are not given.
3. While these defendants submit that they are entitled to be furnished with the names of the two witnesses, they do not insist upon
this because the motion suggests that "these two parties did not previously make known their knowledge of these facts in reference to
this matter on account of fear." Defendants aver that nothing whatever has occurred, so far as their knowledge or information extends to
support the suggestion that any concealment of facts has been induced by fear of any sort.
4. But there are many, defendants to the inforrqation in this case
and many of them have separate defenses and the defendants are not
all represented by the same counsel. The defense has been onerous
and expensive. It is inferrible from the statements of the motion
that only two defendants will be interested in the additional testimony sought to be taken. To save the expense of the attendance of
all the defendants and the attorneys for all of them, these defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

respectfully submit that they are entitled to be furnished with the
names of the two defendants who will be affected by the proposed additional testimony. After the testimony of the two witnesses in question shall have been taken, the defendants affected thereby should
have reasonable time within which to collect and adduce evidence in
rebuttal.
Defendants therefore offer no resistance to the motion further than
to insist that before it is allowed they should be furnished with the
names of the two defendants whom it is proposed to identify by the
witnesses, and that such additional time be allowed as may be necessary for collecting and adducing rebuttal evidence.
On May 4, 1908, Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt submitted a
motion for leave to take additional testimony herein, and
for the reappointment of James D. Maher as Commissioner
to take and return said testimony, and the following order
was made on May 18, 1908:
On consideration of the motion for leave to take additional testimony herein, and that James D. Maher be appointed commissioner
to take the same, it is now here ordered by the court that said motion
be, and the same is hereby, granted, due notice of the names of the
particular defendants affected by the proposed evidence to be given
and leave being granted to give evidence in rebuttal.
On October 13, 1908, Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt presented
the reports of the commissioner appointed to take additional
testimony herein, and submitted an oral motion as to the
matter of his compensation, and on his motion it was ordered
that the additional testimony taken herein be opened, published and filed.
On the same day, October 13, 1908, the following reports of
the Commissioner were filed:
To the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
The undersigned commissioner appointed by an order entered in
this cause on the 18th day of May, 1908, to take and return such
additional evidence as the parties to said cause should produce, respectfully reports to the court that pursuant to the said order he
proceeded to the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, on the 28th day
of June, 1908, and opened the commission conferred on him in the

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.

United States court room in said city on the first day of July, 1908, at
10 o'clock a. in., and, the counsel for the respective parties being
present, proceeded to execute the said commission on that day and
the day following, on which last-named day the parties not offering
any more testimony the commission was closed. The said commission
was executed by receiving the testimony of the several witnesses
named in the said testimony, who were sworn to testify to the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth before giving their evidence,
and the testimony so given by them was taken down by a stenographer
in the presence of the undersigned and is herewith submitted.
Said testimony, comprising 175 typewritten pages, has been deposited with the clerk of this honorable court.
Respectfully submitted.
JAMES D.

MAHER,

Commissioner.
To the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States:
Pursuant to the order of this honorable court entered on the 18th
day of May, 1908, appointing the undersigned as commissioner to
take and return additional testimony in the above entitled cause, I
beg leave to state that I proceeded to the city of Chattanooga, Tennessee, on June 28, 1908, and returned to the city of Washington on
July 3, 1908, and that my expenses were as follows

Respectfully submitted,

JAMES

I).

MAtR,

.

.

.

$64.35

Commissioner.

On October 14, 1908, the following order was made:
It is now here ordered by the court that Mr. James D. Maher, the
commissioner appointed by order of this court, entered herein on
May 18th, 1908, to take and return additional testimony in this cause,
be, and he is hereby, allowed the sum of $200.00 in full for his compensation and expenses, and that said sum be paid by the complainant
herein.
On October 13, 1908, a motion was made by the AttorneyGeneral to dismiss as to certain defendants.
The Attorney-General, on behalf of the United States, moves that
the information herein be dismissed as to the defendants Paul Pool,
T. B. Taylor, William Beeler, John Jones, Marion Perkins, C. A.
Baker, Claude Powell, Charles J. Powell, A. J. Cartwright, R. F. Cartwright, John Varnell, Joseph Clark, Fred Frauley, Paul or "Sheenie"
Warner, Alfred Hammond, William Marquette, and George Brown,
and that they be discharged from their respective recognizances
VOL. ccxrv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

entered into pursuant to an order of this honorable court made herein
on the 21st day of January, 1907, without prejudice, however, to the
right of the United States to prosecute this proceeding as to each
and all of the other defendants herein with the same force and effect
as if the proceeding against the above-named defendants were not
dismissed.
Testimony has been taken and the cases of all parties closed. All
of the testimony has been reported by the commissioner, printed,
published, and filed pursuant to an order of the court.
Efforts to serve Paul Pool with process in this proceeding have
been unsuccessful. He left Chattanooga soon after the lynching and
has never since been located, according to our information.
The proof fails to disclose any evidence implicating defendants
T. B. Taylor, William Beeler, John Jones, Marion Perkins, C. A.
Baker, Claude Powell, Charles J. Powell, A. J. Cartwright, R. F.
Cartwright, or John Varnell in the acts complained of in the information.
The defendant John Jones is not the John Jones which the Government witnesses testify to having seen in the lynching party. The
witnesses stated positively that he was not the same party.
On October 13, 1908, on motion of Mr. Solicitor General
Hoyt, of counsel for the complainant, it was ordered by the
court that the information herein be, and the same is hereby,
dismissed as to the defendants, Paul Pool, T. B. Taylor,
William Beeler, John Jones, Marion Perkins, C. A. Baker,
Claude Powell, Charles J. Powell, A. J. Cartwright, R. F. Cartwright, John Varnell, Joseph Clark, Fred Frauley, Paul or
"Sheenie" Warner, Alfred Hammond, William Marquette and
George Brown.
On March 2 and March 3, 1909, the case was duly argued
and submitted to the Supreme Court of the United States
and on May 25, 1909, that honorable court rendered its decision; the opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller,' and on that day the following order was duly
entered.
1 In

which MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE DAY concurred. See p. 426, ante, for dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, in which MR. JUSTICE WHITE
and MR. JUSTICE McKENNA concurred; MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not sit.
HOLMES

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
214 U. S.

Appendix.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ss:

The President of the United States, To
the Marshal of the Supreme Court
of the United States,
Greeting:
Whereas it has been made to ap(SEAL)
pear to the Supreme .Court of the
United States that Joseph F. Shipp,
Jeremiah Gibson, Luther Williams,
Nick Nolan, Henry Padgett and William Mayse have been adjudged
by the said court, now in session at the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, to be in contempt of said court.
We, therefore, command you that you attach the said Joseph F.
Shipp, Jeremiah Gibson, Luther Williams, Nick Nolan, Henry Padgett
and William Mayse, so as to have their bodies before the said Supreme
Court of the United States at the city of Washington, in the District
of Columbia, on the first day of June, 1909, at 12 o'clock noon of that
day, to answer the said court of the said contempt, by them lately
committed against it, as it is said, and further, to do and receive what
our said court shall in that behalf consider.
Hereof fail not, and have you then and there this writ.
Witness the Honorable Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the
United States, this 25th day of May, A. D. 1909.
JAMES H. McKENNEY,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.
And thereafter and on June 1, 1909, the marshal produced
the defendants named before this honorable court and a
motion having been made for leave to file a petition for rehearing the following order was made:
The marshal of this court made return to the attachment heretofore
issued herein by producing the bodies of the defendants, Joseph F.
Shipp, Jeremiah Gibson, Luther Williams, Nick Nolan, Henry Padgett
and William Mayse, who appeared in open court in their proper persons, and thereupon the Solicitor General moved the court for sentence
upon the said defendants above named, and counsel for the said defendants moved the court for leave to file a petition for rehearingWhereupon, upon consideration, It is now here ordered by the court
that leave be, and the same is hereby, granted to file motions for leave
to file petitions for rehearing herein within thirty days.

It is further ordered that the said above named defendants be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Appendix.

214 U. S.

inanded to the custody of the United States marshal for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, he having been deputized by the marshal of this
court to serve the attachment herein, to be released on entering into
recognizances in the penal sum of one thousand dollars each, conditioned to abide the further order of the court, before the judge of the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee.

And thereafter the following proceedings took place, as
appears by the following certificate:
Before me, the District Judge of the United States for the Eastern
District of Tenneesse, personally came, in open court, in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern Division of the Eastern
District of Tennessee, the marshal of said court, and produced the
bodies of the defendants Joseph F. Shipp, Jeremiah Gibson, Luther
Williams, Nick Nolan, Henry Padgett and William Mayse, who appeared in open court in their proper persons; and there was at the same
time exhibited to me a copy of an order entered in this cause by the
Supreme Court of the United States on June 1, 1909, directing that
said defendants be released from custody on entering into recognizances before me in the penal sum of one thousand dollars each, conditioned to abide the further order of the Supreme Court of the United
States;
Whereupon each of said defendants, Joseph F. Shipp, Jeremiah
Gibson, Luther Williams, Nick Nolan, Henry Padgett and William
Mayse, did, in open court, enter into his recognizance before me as required by said order of the Supreme Court, and did acknowledge himself to be indebted to the United States of America in the penal sum
of one thousand dollars, such obligation to be void upon condition that
he should abide the further order of said Supreme Court in the premises; otherwise to remain in full force and effect; and each of said defendants was thereupon released by the marshal from custody.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of
June, 1909.
EDWARD

T.

SANFORD,

Judge of the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
On June 28, 1909, a petition for rehearing was filed on behalf of
defendant Williams.
On June 30, 1909, a petition for rehearing was filed on behalf of
defendants Shipp and Gibson.

JOHNSON v. TENNESSEE.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On July 1, motions of defendiants Padgett, Mayse and Nolan for
leave to file petitions for rehearing were filed.

ED JOHNSON v. THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 2.

Docketed March 19, 1906; Abatement announced May 24, 1909.
Case abated on account of death of appellant.

THIS is the appeal referred to in the statement of the case of
United States v. Shipp, No. 5, original, ante, p. 386. The order
allowing the appeal was granted and the case docketed
March 19, 1906. On that day the appellant was killed under
the circumstances set forth in the statement of the case in
United States v. Shipp, ante, p. 386. No further proceedings
were had in the case. On May 24, 1909, after announcing the
decision in United States v. Shipp, holding that certain of the
defendants in that case were guilty of contempt of this court
for their conduct in connection with the killing of the appellant in this case, the Chief Justice announced that this case
had abated owing to death of appellant.
Mr. E. M. Hewlett was attorney for appellant on motion
for allowing the appeal.
THE CHIEF JUsTICE: Appeal abated by death of appellant,
and case dismissed.

