OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

We have been particular to copy the exact language used by
the commission, for in another case between the same plaintiff
and other railroad companies, involving the charges in a case
of reconsignment of hay, decided on December 20 of the same
year (St. Louis Hay & Grain Company v. The Illinois Central
Railroad Company et al., 11 I. C. C. 486), the commission
made an order dismissing the complaint. It is true that the
facts are not precisely like those in this case, but at the same
time the difference in the conclusions of the commission is such
as seem to suggest that perhaps on further examination the
commission had come to a different conclusion.
The testimony taken before the commission is not preserved
in the record, hence it would be impossible, even if proper
with all the testimony before us, to fix the amount which
would be a fair and reasonable charge. All we can do is to
reverse the judgments of the Circuit Court and Circuit Court
of Appeals and remand the case to the former court with instructions to send the matter back to the Commerce Commission for further investigation and report.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF PROVIDENCE.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued January 25, 26, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

The United States can recover from a bank presenting pension checks
to, and receiving the money therefor from, a sub-treasury, where
the names of the payees have been forged; and the right to recover
is not conditioned upon either demand or the giving of notice of the
discovery of facts which by the operation of the legal warranty were
presumably within the knowledge of the bank.
The United States is not chargeable with the knowledge of the signa-

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK.
214 U. S.

303

Statement of the Case.

tures of the vast numbers of persons entitled to receive pensions,
and the exceptional rule as to certain classes of commercial paper
that the person having knowledge of the genuine signature of the
payee whose signature is forged is negligent in paying on such an
indorsement and therefore cannot recover, does not apply to the
United States in regard to pension checks. Leather Manufacturers'
Bank v. Merchants' National Bank, 128 U. S. 26, approving White
v. ContinentalNational Bank, 64 N. Y. 316, followed.

Qu(Ere and not decided whether government pension checks are not
official warrants, but checks, and, as such, subject to the general
rules of commercial paper as between private parties.
151 Fed. Rep. 402, reversed.

THIs action was brought by the United States to recover
the sum of payments made at the sub-treasury in Boston upon
194 pension checks, the signatures or marks of the persons to
whom the checks were payable having been forged. The National Exchange Bank of Boston was originally sole defendant, but in legal effect the National Exchange Bank of Providence was substituted as defendant, and the issues were made
up between it and the United States. We shall hereafter refer
to that bank as the Exchange Bank.
The cause was tried upon an agreed statement and the
material facts may be thus summarized:
Upon receipt of pension vouchers, regular in form and purporting to be executed by the pensioners named therein-but
which in fact were forgeries-the United States pension agent
at Boston drew the checks in question upon the sub-treasury
at Boston, aggregating $6,362.07, in favor of the pensioners
named in the vouchers, and transmitted such checks by mail
directly to the address of each pensioner as given in the
vouchers, in accordance with the provision of § 4765, Rev.
Stat. Of the persons named in the checks fifteen had died,
and the others were the widows of soldiers who had remarried,
and whose right to a pension had ceased, all the names, however, as we have said, having been forged. With but two exceptions the checks were either for $24 or $36.
The checks with the forged indorsements thereon of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

payees were cashed by the Exchange Bank, and immediately
indorsed to a national bank in Boston for collection. The
checks were presented by the collecting bank at the subtreasury of the United States in Boston. The collecting bank
received payment of the same and accounted for such payment to the Exchange Bank.'
In May, 1897, a special examiner of the Pension Bureau was
detailed at Providence to investigate the case of one Mooy, a
deceased pensioner, in whose name three of the checks here in
question, each for $36.00, had been issued and paid in 1896.
On June 18, 1897, the examiner reported to the bureau the
forgery of the name of the deceased payee, and that it had
probably been done by one William A. Munson. December 18,
1897, notice was given to the Exchange Bank by the United
States attorney at Providence that the indorsements of Mooy's
name to said checks were forged, and that at a proper time
reclamation would be made for the money paid to the bank
upon the checks. The remaining forgeries were discovered at
different times during the months of February, March, April
and May, 1898, and in December, 1898, Munson, who was
undergoing imprisonment upon a sentence imposed June 22,
1898, for forging a pension check, with which presumably this
case is not concerned, admitted that he had forged the signatures of the payees on the checks in suit.
1The payments were made as follows:
During 1886, 1887 and 1888, five checks, each for $36.00, were paid on
account of pension certificate issued in name of Martha Cramp-

ton ..............................................

During 1892 ...............................
1893 ...............................

$ 180 00

$334 80
867 27

1894 ...............................
1895 ....................... .......

1,092 00
1,380 00

1896 ...............................
1897 ...............................

1,620 00
888 00
6,182 07

$6,362 07

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 305
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

On July 22, 1898, the United States attorney at Providence
made written demand upon the Exchange Bank to be refunded the sums paid, except as to checks aggregating $351.27,
for which no demand for repayment was made other than by
the bringing of this action. The bank refusing to repay, this
action was commenced on August 27, 1901.
Each of the 194 checks was made the subject of two counts.
An indebtedness of the defendant bank to the United States
was averred in the first count to have arisen frorh the fact that
a described check had been lawfully issued by a United States
pension agent, drawn upon the Assistant Treasurer of the
United States, that a signature, purporting to be that of the
payee, was thereafter forged upon the check, and that the Exchange Bank indorsed said check and presented it for payment to the Assistant Treasurer, who paid the amount thereof.
The second count was the common count for money received
by the defendant to the use of the United States. In substance, the defenses interposed in the answer of the bank were
that if the facts averred in the declaration were established by
the proof, the bank was yet not liable, because the action had
not been brought within a reasonable time after the alleged
payments of the drafts, nor had prompt notice been given of
the discovery of the forgeries. It was also averred that the
United States had been negligent in not verifying the signatures of the payees of the checks in suits by comparing them
with signatures of the payees in its possession.
Upon the agreed facts the Circuit Court entered judgment
against the bank for the full amount claimed with interest.
The appellate court, however, reversed this judgment, and remanded the cause with directions to enter judgment for the
Exchange Bank (151 Fed. Rep. 402); and this writ of error
was thereupon prosecuted.
Mr: Assistant Attorney General Fowler, for plaintiff in error,
submitted
The Government's right of action is not defeated by the
VOL. cmciu-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument, for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

failure of its agents to give notice to defendant of the forged
indorsements immediately upon the discovery thereof. The
rule adopted by the Circuit Court of Appeals is not in accord
with sound reasoning or with the weight of the authorities.
United States v. National Park Bank, 6 Fed. Rep. 852; United
States v. Bank, 13 D. C. Rep. 296; United States v. Onondaga
County Savings Bank, 39 Fed. Rep. 259; Cooke v. United
States, 91 U. S. 389, 402, 403; 5 Cyc. Law and Procedure,
pp. 546, 547; White v. Continental National Bank, 64 N. Y. 316,
321, 322; 2 Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, § 1372.
The pension checks in question were not commercial paper
in the strict sense of that term. The Mayor v. Ray, 19 Wall.
468, 477; Wall v. County of Monroe, 103 U. S. 74, 78; Claiborne
County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, 408; District of Columbia v.
Cornell, 130 U. S. 655, 661; Floyd Acceptance Cases, 7 Wall.
666, 676.
The Government of the United States cannot be bound by
the laches of its officers in failing to give notice within proper
time that the indorsements on the checks in question were
forgeries.
The rule laid down in United States v. Cooke, Fed. Cas.
No. 14,855, that when the Government becomes a party to a
negotiable instrument, it is bound to take the same steps to
perfect its rights as is an ordinary individual, does not apply
in case the checks in question are not negotiable instruments.
It should not be applied here, even if it be held that the checks
are negotiable instruments, because, as heretofore shown, the
Government's right of action does not depend upon the giving
of notice to the defendant. If such notice were a necessary
prerequisite to the bringing of the action, as is the fact of giving notice of the dishonor of commercial paper, the rule laid
down in United States v. Cooke is a proper one. But where
plaintiff's right of action exists, and the neglect to give notice
can only be set up as a matter of defense, then it presents precisely the same question as any other act of negligence upon
the part of the Government's officials.

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK.- 307
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Theodore FrancisGreen for defendant in error:
In case of a payment under a forged indorsement of commercial paper, the plaintiff, in order to recover, must have
given notice of the forgery within a reasonable time after payment. This is clearly the rule in England. Cocks v. Masterman, 9 B. & C. 902 (1829); Mather v. Lord Maidstone, 18 C. B.
273, 294; Wilkinson v. Johnson, 3 B. & C. 428; Smith v. Mercer, 6 Taunt. 76.
To the same effect in general, see Bloomer v. Spittle, L. R.
13 Eq. 427 (1872); 2 Parsons, Notes and Bills, 598.
In the United States Federal courts also, a high degree of
diligence has been required. United States v. Cooke, Fed. Cas.
No. 14,855; United States Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat.
333.
Within the rule of the above cases an unreasonable time
elapsed between the payment of the checks in this case, and
the notice to the defendant of the forgery. The period varied
from eighteen months, in the case of the Mooy checks to over
eleven years in one instance, and averaged from two to five or
six years.
In case of a payment under a forged indorsement of commercial paper, the plaintiff, to recover, must have given notice of the forgery within a reasonable time after its discovery.
United States Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 344; United
States v. Clinton National Bank, 28 Fed. Rep. 357; United
States v. Central National Bank of Philadelphia,6 Fed. Rep.
134; United States v. National Exchange Bank, 45 Fed. Rep.
163; Gloucester Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Massachusetts, 33;
Raymond v. Baar, 13 Serg. & Rawle (Pa.), 318; Canal Bank
v. Bank of Albany, 1 Hill (N. Y.), 287; Bank of Commerce v.
Union Bank, 3 Comst. (N. Y.) 230; Ellis v. Ohio &c. Co., 4
Ohio St. 628, 657.
The Government contends that the true rule is, not that
notice of a forgery must be given within a reasonable time
of its discovery, but that the plaintiff may recover, no matter how long the delay, provided that it does not affirma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

214 U. S.

tively appear that the defendant has suffered actual damage
thereby.
That rule is laid down in a small number of cases, but it will
be found upon analysis that in most of them notice of the forgery was in fact given shortly after its discovery, so that it
was not necessary for the court to decide that unreasonable
delay in giving notice was not fatal. For example, in United
States v. Onondaga County Savings Bank, 39 Fed. Rep. 259;
aff'd 64 Fed. Rep. 703, the forgery was discovered in two
years, but notice was given to the defendant within three days
thereafter. It was held that the plaintiff might recover.
Proof of damage by the delay in giving notice is not necessary. United States v. National Exchange Bank, 45 Fed. Rep.
163; United States Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 333;
Continental National Bank v. National Bank of the Commonwealth, 50 N. Y. 575; Raymond v. Baar, 13 Serg. & Rawle
(Pa.), 318; Gloucester Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Massachusetts,
33, 46; McNeely Co. v. Bank of North America, 70 Atl. Rep.
891.
Pension checks are commercial paper. It is immaterial
whether the instruments here involved are to be termed bills
of exchange, drafts, checks or notes. They are in the ordinary
form of a mercantile check, and it is enough that they have
been held to be commercial paper by every court before which
the question has come. In all the cases cited by the parties in
their original briefs in the court below, whatever differences
of opinion there may have been on the question of necessity of
proof of damage, all the judges agreed that paper of the kind
in question was negotiable. United States v. Clinton National
Bank, 28 Fed. Rep. 357; United States v. National Park Bank,
6 Fed. Rep. 852; United States v. CentralNationalBank, 6 Fed.
Rep. 134; United States v. Onondaga Savings Bank, 39 Fed.
Rep. 259; United States v. National Exchange Bank, 45 Fed.
Rep. 163; United States v. Cooke, Fed. Cas. No. 14,855; Wells,
Fargo & Company v. United States, 45 Fed. Rep. 337, 340;
United States v. American Exchange Bank, 70 Fed. Rep. 232;

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 309
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bank of the Republic v. Millard, 10 Wall. 152; First National
Bank v. Whitman, 94 U. S. 343.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

A preliminary matter needs to be noticed. In the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals it is said (italics ours):
"The precise form of only one of the so-called checks is
shown by the record, as follows:
'United States Pension Agency,
No. 297073.
Boston, Mass., Mch 5 1892
Assistant Treasurer of the United States
Boston, Mass.
9492 B81
Pay to the order of Mahala B. Jaques
$36
Thirty-six
ooDollars.
Interior
36
W. H. OSBORNE,
U. S. Pension Agent.
Paid Mar. 12, 1892
AssT. TREAS., Boston.
Indorsements:
MAHALA B. JAQUES
Payee.
M. M. ANGELL
'Pay Nat. Bank of the Republic, Boston or order, for collection, for account of First National Bank, Providence, R. I.
C. E. LAPHAM,
Cashier.
Indorsement Guaranteed.
Nat'l Bank of the Republic, Boston.'
'This is, however, understood to be a sample of the remaining checks. As they were drawn by the pension agent on the
Assistant Treasurer of the United States, the question naturally arises whether, after all, they were anything more than
official warrants, a question which we will turn to later. It will

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

be observed, however, that no indorsement by the Exchange Bank
appearson the sample shown in the record, and whatever indorsement there is is simply 'for collection.'"
The sample check thus referred to is also set out in the
opinion delivered in the Circuit Court. But no such check is
in the record, nor is it embraced in the list of checks collected
by the Exchange Bank, and for which recovery is sought by
the United States. Presumably the stated sample check must
have been inadvertently taken from the record in an action
against some other bank. At all events, as it is not in argument questioned that the Exchange Bank was the holder of
the checks sued for, when they were paid by the United States,
we shall assume the correctness of the recital in the agreed
statement of facts, that the checks "with the forged signatures
thereon were cashed by the defendant, who immediately indorsed the said checks to a national bank in Boston for collection."
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment in
favor of the United States upon the ground that by the operation of an exceptional rule, said to prevail, under certain conditions, as to commercial paper, the United States could not
recover for the mistaken payments, as there had been unreasonable delay in giving notice to the Exchange Bank after
the discovery of the forgeries. The correctness of this action
is assailed in the assignments of error, the Government contending that the pension checks in question were mere Treasury warrants, not commercial paper in the true sense of that
term, and hence not controlled by the so-called exceptional
commercial rule, but that even if the checks were commercial
paper and governed by such rule mere negligent delay in giving
notice of the discovery of the forgery would not prevent recovery, unless the Exchange Bank established by proof that it
had thereby suffered damage. It is besides claimed that if the
agents of the Government were negligent in giving notice of
the discovery of the forgeries, their laches cannot be imputed
to the United States. The Exchange Bank not only traverses

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 311
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

these assignments but insists that the claim of the United
States to recover was rightfully rejected, because the duty was
on it not only to give prompt notice of the discovery of the
forgeries but also to discover the forgeries promptly after payment, a contention which is controverted by the Government.
In order to simplify the issue for decision we concede, for the
sake of the argument only, that the forged instruments were
not official warrants as contended by the Government, but in a
generic sense are to be classed as negotiable commercial paper,
and that in a case coming within the exceptional rule referred
to the laches of the authorized agents of the Government can
be imputed to it. But, assuming the instruments to be negotiable paper the question yet remains whether the right of the
United States to recover from the Exchange Bank is controlled
or limited by the exceptional rule referred to.
That in certain classes of cases an exceptional rule is enforced in England as to commercial paper, by which, under
particular circumstances, such paper is taken out of the operation of the general rule relating to the recovery of money
paid by mistake is not subject to question. Price v. Neale, 3
Burr. 1354; Smith v. Chester, 1 T. R. 654; Smith v. Mercer, 6
Taunt. 76; Wilkinson v. Johnson, 8 Barn. & Cresw. 428; Cocks
v. Masterson, 9 Barn. & Cresw. 222. The decisions referred to,
however, show that the exception was limited to cases where
the person who paid a forged instrument and who sought recovery of the amount paid was charged with knowledge of the
genuine signature of the person whose name was forged, and,
therefore, was presumed to have been negligent in making the
payment. For instance, where one accepted a draft purporting to be drawn upon him by a customer whose signature he
was presumed to know, which afterwards turned out to be a
forgery. Again, where a draft which purported to have been
accepted, and by the seeming act of acceptance was made payable at a particular bank which paid the same for account of
its customer, the apparent acceptor, and it afterwards turned

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

out that the acceptance was a forgery, the exceptional rule was
applied.
Several of the English cases above cited were reviewed by
this court in Bank of the United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10
Wheat. 333, 348, et seq. In that case recovery of moneys paid
was denied to a bank which had received as genuine notes it
had issued, but which had been fraudulently altered as to
amount after being put in circulation, the decision having been
rested (p. 353) "upon the broad ground that there was an acceptance of the notes as genuine, and that it falls directly
within the authorities which govern the cases of acceptances of
forged drafts."
The exceptional rule was thus noticed in the opinion delivered in Cooke v.'United States, 91 U. S. 389, 396.
"It is, undoubtedly, also true, as a general rule of commercial law, that where one accepts forged paper purporting
to be his own, and pays it to a holder for value, he cannot recall the payment. The operative fact in this rule is the acceptance, or more properly, perhaps, the adoption, of the paper as
genuine by its apparent maker. Often the bare receipt of the
paper, accompanied by payment, is equivalent to an adoption
within the meaning of the rule; because, as every man is presumed to know his own signature and ought to detect its
forgery by simple inspection, the examination which he can
give when the demand upon him is made is all that the law considers necessary for his protection. He must repudiate as soon
as he ought to have discovered the forgery, otherwise he will
be. regarded as accepting the paper. Unnecessary delay, under
such circumstances, is unreasonable; and unreasonable delay
is negligence, which throws the burden of the loss upon him
who is guilty of it, rather than upon one who is not. The rule
is thus well stated in Gloucester Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Massachusetts, 45: 'The party receiving such notes must examine
them as soon as he has opportunity, and return them immediately; if he does not, he is negligent; and negligence will defeat
his action.'"

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 313
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Although it has been considered that in later cases courts
of England have mitigated the strictness of the exception upheld in the cases we have previously cited, and have made the
right to recover back embraced in such cases depend somewhat
upon the prejudice occasioned by the delay in giving notice
(Chitty on Bills, 464), it is certain that the exception has not
been extended so as to cause it to include a case like the one
before us. Imperial Bank of Canada v. .Bank of Hamilton
(1903), A. C. 49. And, although the courts of some of the
States of the Union have limited, restricted, or declined to follow the exceptional rule-see the subject reviewed in Greenwald v. Ford (1906), 21 S. Dak. 28, and First National Bank
v. Bank of Wyndmere (1906), 15 N. Dak. 299-we have been
cited to no decision of a court of last resort, involving a case
like the one before us, where it was held that such a case is
controlled by the exceptional rule. True it is a decision of the
Supreme Court of New York, rendered in 1841 (CanalBank v.
Bank of Albany, 1 Hill, 287), involving analogous facts, has
by some text-writers been treated as holding a doctrine which
might be considered as establishing that the exceptional rule,
as somewhat qualified by the decision in question, would be
applicable to a case like the one before us. In the case referred
to it was decided that where the bank upon which a draft was
drawn paid it in ignorance of the fact that the supposed signature of the person to whom it was payable had been forged, it
could not recover back the money without exercising reasonable diligence to give notice after the discovery of the forgery.
We think, however, it is apparent that the court considered
not that it was applying the exceptional rule, but that it was
simply announcing its conception of the general principle as to
the right to recover back money paid by mutual mistake. This
is evident, since the court, after holding that the case before
it was not governed by the exceptional rule, remarked that
"where each party enjoys the same chance of knowledge, no
case demands anything more than reasonable diligence in giving notice after the discovery of the forgery." No authority,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

however, was cited on this proposition, nor was any intimation given by the court as to whether, even if there had been
negligence in giving notice, recovery would not be permitted
if no damage had been occasioned by the delay to the party to
whom the payment had been made. A later case in New York
enforced a principle which we deem applicable to the present
controversy. The case is White v. Continental Nat. Bank, 64
N. Y. 316. The facts were these: A customer of the firm of
White & Co. drew a draft on that firm for $27. After the delivery of the draft to the payee it was raised to the sum of
$2,750. The raised draft came into the possession of the Continental National Bank of New York city, who took the same
from a customer who was credited with and drew the amount.
The Continental Bank presented the draft to White & Co., and
that firm accepted the same, payable at the Leather Manufacturers' National Bank. When due the Leather Manufacturers' Bank paid the Continental Bank and debited the account of White & Co. This payment was made in August.
Monthly accounts passed between White & Co. and its correspondent by whom the draft had been drawn, but the August
account, which was rendered in the early part of September,
was not examined. When the next account came along and
was examined the alteration of the draft was discovered, and
White & Co., evidently being bound to the Leather Manufacturers' Bank by the payment made by that bank at the request
of White & Co. and for their account, notified the Continental
Bank, demanded repayment, and on refusal brought suit to
recover. The trial court enforced the exceptional rule and
denied the right of White & Co. to recover. The Court of Appeals, while substantially conceding that if the forgery had
been of the name of the drawer of the draft, White & Co., because of their presumed knowledge of such signature, would
have been, by their acceptance, brought within the exceptional rule decided, that the rule was not applicable because
the forgery concerned not the signature but the body of the
draft, of which White & Co. were not presumed to have knowl-

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 315
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

edge. Thus eliminating the exceptional rule, the court held
that as the Continental Bank had presented the forged draft
for payment, and had under the principles of commercial liability at least impliedly warranted its genuineness, the bank
was liable to repay to White & Co. Although resting its conclusion upon the warranty on the part of the Continental National Bank of the genuineness of the instrument which it
presented, the court, nevertheless, at the close of the opinion,
observed (p. 322):
"But waiving the question as to the responsibility of the
defendant for the genuineness of the instrument, and taking
the most favorable view for the defendant, which is to regard
it as a case of a mutual mistake, in respect to which neither
was at fault, and in that view and upon that theory, the case
is within the principles decided in The Bank of Commerce v.
The Union Bank (3 Comst. 230); The Kingston Bank v. Eltinge (40 N. Y. 391)."
White v. Continental National Bank was cited and the doctrine therein expressed was approved and applied by this court
in Leather Mfrs. Nat. Bank v. Merchants' Nat. Bank, 128 U. S.
26. The opinion in that case, delivered by Mr. Justice Gray,
was announced on October 22, 1888, and was subsequent in
date to several decisions of lower Federal courts cited in the
opinion of the court below in this case, and which were deemed
to conclusively demonstrate that the United States was not
entitled to recover. In the Leather Manufacturers' Bank case
the question for decision was thus stated i4 the opinion (p. 34):
"The question then is whether, if a bank, upon which a
check is drawn, payable to a particular person or order, pays
the amount of the check to one presenting it with a forged
endorsement of the payee's name, both parties supposing the
endorsement to be genuine, the right of action of the bank to
recover back the money from the person so obtaining it accrues
immediately upon the payment of the money, or only after a
demand for its repayment."
The right of action was held to have accrued upon the pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

ment of the money. After distinguishing the case from one
which involved the relations of a bank and its depositors, the
court said (p. 34):
"But as between the bank and the person obtaining money
on a forged check or order, the case is quite different. The
first step in bringing about the payment is the act of the holder
of the check, in assuming and representing himself to have a
right, which he has not, to receive the money. One who by
presenting forged paper to a bank procures the payment of
the amount thereof to him, even if he makes no express warranty, in law represents that the paper is genuine, and, if the
payment is made in ignorance of the forgery, is liable to an
action by the bank to recover back the money which, in equity
and good conscience, has never ceased to be its property. It is
not a case in which a consideration, which has once existed,
fails by subsequent election or other act of either party, or of
a third person; but there is never, at any stage of the transaction, any consideration for the payment. Espy v. Bank of Cincinnati, 18 Wall. 604; Gurney v. Womersley, 4 El. & Bl. 133;
Cabot Bank v. Morton, 4 Gray, 156; Aldrich v. Jackson, 5 R. I.
218; White v. Continental Nat. Bank, 64 N. Y. 316.
"Whenever money is paid upon the representation of the
receiver that he has either a certain title in property transferred in consideration of the payment, or a certain authority
to receive the money paid, when, in fact, he has no such title
or authority, then, although there be no fraud or intentional
misrepresentation on his part, yet there is no consideration
for the payment; and the money remains, in equity and good
conscience, the property of the payer, and may be recovered
back by him, without any previous demand, as money had and
received to his use. His right of action accrues, and the statute of limitations begins to run, immediately upon the payment.
"In the case at bar, as in the case last cited, the plaintiff's
right of action did not depend upon any express promise by

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 317
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant after the discovery of the mistake, or upon any
demand by the plaintiff upon the defendant, or by the depositor or any other person upon the plaintiff; but it was to recover back the money, as paid without consideration, and had
and received by the defendant to the plaintiff's use. That
right accrued at the date of the payment, and was barred by
the statute of limitations in six years from that date."
We are of the opinion that the case before us is directly within
the principle governing the ruling made in the case just cited
as well as within the doctrine of White v. Continental National
Bank, which in effect, as we have shown, was approved by this
court in Leather Manufacturers' National Bank v. Merchants'
Nat. Bank. The United States is not before us as the acceptor
of a draft drawn upon it and charged with knowledge of the
signature of the drawer; nor was it a bank which had paid the
check of a depositor and was charged with knowledge of the
signature of such depositor. The forgery here was in the name
of the payee, and it is therefore impossible, as it was in the
case of White v. The Continental Bank and in the Leather Manufacturers' Bank case, to bring this cause within the exceptional rule without holding that the United States was charged
with knowledge of the signatures of the vast multitude of persons who are entitled under the law to receive pensions. The
exceptional rule as to certain classes of commercial paper proceeds upon an assumption of knowledge or duty to know,
naturally arising from the situation of the parties, entirely
consonant with their capabilities, and in accord with the common sense view of their relation. To apply the rule, however,
to the Government and its duty in paying out the millions of
pension claims, which are yearly discharged by means of
checks, would require it to be assumed that that was known,
or ought to have been known, which on the face of the situation was impossible to be known, would besides wholly disregard the relation between the parties and would also require
that to be assumed which the obvious dictates of common
sense make clear could not be truthfully assumed. But con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

clusive as are these considerations, the case does not alone
depend upon them, since we think legislation of Congress in
reason precludes the conception that it was contemplated
that the United States (or its agents) had actual knowledge
of the signatures of pensioners and in paying pensions was
bound to all the world under such an assumption.
By §§ 4764 and 4765, Rev. Stat., it is required, before a pension check shall be issued, that vouchers shall be supplied, and
the duty is cast upon the Secretary of the Interior of making
rules and regulations to establish the identity of the pensioner.
As shown by the record, the regulations thus promulgated
require vouchers to be signed in duplicate before an officer
authorized to administer an oath or before a fourth-class postmaster. The pensioner is required to exhibit his pension certificate to such officer and also to sign and make oath to a
statement as to his identity, his existing right to the pension
and his post office address. The officer is required to certify
as to inspectioin of the pension certificate; that the pensioner
was fully identified; that he had signed the duplicate receipts;
and the address of the pensioner is to be stated in the certificate. These requirements are incompatible with the assumption that the Government was chargeable with knowledge of
the identity, continued existence, and right to pensions, or with
the signatures of those entitled to receive pension moneys.
The requirement by the Government of proof, for its own protection, affords no ground for the contention that as to any
action taken as the result of the furnishing of such proof the
Government is estopped as to third parties from showing that
the proofs furnished were false and fraudulent and that the
Government had been deceived thereby. To so hold would be
to say that from the act of exerting a precaution against fraud
there arose a presumption by which the fraud could be successfully accomplished. This would be the case if it were now
held that because by forged vouchers the Government was
deceived into acting third parties had a right to rely upon the
integrity of the proof and to estop the Government as though

UNITED STATES v. NAT'L EXCHANGE BANK. 319
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

representations as to the verity of such proof had been made
by it to such third parties. The rights, therefore, of the bank
as the apparent acquirer of the pension checks are to be governed by the nature and character of the instruments and cannot be enlarged so as to relieve the bank from the obligation
of warranty implied in the presentation of the checks and the
collecting of the amount. The subject is aptly illustrated in
the opinion by Coxe, Judge, in United States v. Onondaga
County Savings Bank, 39 Fed. Rep. 259, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in 64 Fed. Rep.
703.
As the nature of the forgery did not cause the case to be
controlled by the exceptional rule, and as the Exchange Bank
when it presented the checks and obtained thereon the money
of the United States by operation of law warranted the genuineness of the instruments which it thus presented and upon
which it asked and received payment, it follows that the case
in substance is accurately portrayed in observations made by
the Court of Appeals of New York in the White case, at pages
320-321:
"The facts which disentitled the defendant to receive the
money, and in ignorance of which it was paid, were those presumed to be within the knowledge of the defendant and not of
the plaintiffs. The defendant, in receiving the money and in
disposing of it, did not act upon the faith of any admission by
the plaintiffs, express or implied, of any fact which they now
controvert in prosecuting this action. There was, therefore,
no want of good faith, no negligence, or even want of ordinary
care on the part of the plaintiffs in the payment of the money.
The defendant, in the entire transaction, acted upon other
evidence of its right to the money than the statement or actions of the plaintiffs, and in dealing with the bill and with the
money, its avails, acted upon the apparent title and genuineness of the instrument, and the responsibility of those from
and through whom it received the bill. The plaintiffs, therefore, owed no duty to the defendant in respect to the forgery,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

which invalidated the bill and its title to the moneys represented by it."

Under these conditions the warranty of genuineness implied
by the presentation and collection of the checks bearing the
forged indorsement having been broken at the time the checks
were cashed by the United States, and the cause of action having therefore then accrued, the right to sue to recover back
from the Exchange Bank was not conditioned upon either
demand or the giving of notice of the discovery of facts which
by the operation of the legal warranty were presumably within
the knowledge of the defendant.
The conclusion to which we have thus come renders it unnecessary to consider whether if the facts presented merely a
case of mutual mistake, where neither party was in fault, and
reasonable diligence was required to give notice of the discovery of the forgery if there was lack of such diligence, it would
operate to bar recovery by the United States, although the
Exchange Bank was not prejudiced by the delay.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed and the judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed.
And it isso ordered.

OCEANIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY v.
STRANAHAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 509.

Argued January 11, 12, 1909.-Decided June 1, 1909.

Money paid to the collector of a port under protest, and on the certainty that if not paid clearance to vessels necessarily sailing on defi-

nite schedule would be refused, to the great damage of the owner,
is paid involuntarily, and can, if unlawfully exacted, be recovered.
Congress has power to deal with the admission of aliens and to confide
the enforcement of laws in regard thereto to administrative officers.

United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253.
In construing a congressional statute this court may consider

the re-

