WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

STATE OF WASHINGTON v. STATE OF OREGON.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING.

No. 3, Original.

Petition filed March 8, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Washington v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127, reaffirmed on rehearing.
Although the volume of water and depth of a channel have constantly
diminished, if it all results from process of accretion, or, as in this
case, possibly from jetties constructed by governmental authority,
that channel still remains the boundary line, the precise line of separation being the varying center thereof.
The settlement of boundaries is generally attended with difficulties
and it is wise for adjacent States to adjust their boundaries by
boundary commissions and agreements as has been done with the
consent of Congress in several instances.

facts, whih involve the boundary between the States
of Washington and Oregon as the same was determined by this
court in this action, 211 U. S. 127, are stated in the opinion.
THE

The State of Washington filed a petition for a rehearing
herein, upon the following points:
I. The court erred in finding and holding that the present
ship channel at the entrance to the Columbia River was the
old south channel.
II. The court erred in finding and holding that the former
north channel still subsisted to the northward of Sand Island,
and that the boundary between the States of Washington and
Oregon was to the northward of said Sand Island.
Ill. The court erred in not finding and holding that the
present single channel at the entrance to the mouth of the
Columbia River was as much the former north channel of the
entrance to said river as it was the former south channel, and
in not giving effect as a matter of law to the said combined
single channel as the boundary between the two States.
IV. The court erred in finding and holding that the Columbia

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Complainant.

214 U. S.

River inside the entrance was not divided by islands and in
finding and holding that the testimony failed to show anything calling for consideration in respect to the ownership of
the said islands.
Mr. George Turner, Mr. E. C. Macdonald, Mr. W. P. Bell,
Attorney General of the State of Washington, and Mr. S. H1.
Piles,for complainant, in support of the petition for rehearing:
Complainant in its petition for rehearing accepts the decision of this court to the effect that the north ship channel of
the Columbia River is the channel fixed by the act of Congress
as the north boundary of the State of Oregon, but with all
deference, begs leave to present some considerations which
make against the correctness of that decision, in the hope
that the court may see fit to reverse it.
It is necessary, in discussing the subject, to determine the
initial starting point of the Oregon line. According to the
Oregon enabling act that point must be "due west and opposite the middle of the north ship channel of the Columbia
River." Does this language mean due west of that channel at a
point where the channel's flow crosses a line drawn from Point
Adams to Cape Disappointment, which is assumed to be the
mouth of the river, or does it mean due west and opposite
that channel at its mouth or sea end? Oregon claims the former, and Washington claims the latter.
The sea end of the north channel in 1851 and 1854 was
within three miles of the mouth of the Columbia River. See
abstract, U. S. Coast Survey Charts, 1851 and 1854; Record, p.
68. It was then within territorial waters, and if that channel
was to be employed through any part of its course as a boundary between Oregon and the prospective State of Washington
to the north, it was as important that it be thus employed from
its sea end to its entrance into the river proper, as it was that
it be employed inside the entrance. The same local territorial jurisdiction, with some unimportant qualifications,
would exist over it out to the three mile limit as would exist

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

over it within the river banks, and the same policy which
would make the channel inside the river banks the boundary
would require the channel to be continued as the boundary
out to its sea end. This seems clear. Iowa v. Illinois, 147
U. S. 1, 13, holding that the controlling consideration in this
matter is that which preserves to each State equality in the
right of navigation in the river.
The only permissible construction of the law is, that the
line commences due west and opposite the middle of the north
ship channel at its sea end, and that it extends thence easterly to the middle channel of the river inside the mouth of the
river. Such a line would divide the river mouth almost equally
between Oregon and Washington and give each of them, in
1859, an equally good ship channel into the river, considertions which it may be presumed would have moved Congress.
See Chart A, 211 U. S. 133. The designation of such a line
would also provide an explicable rule for continuing the dividing line up the river to Fort Walla Walla. The term, "middle
channel," as used in the law, is not materially different in
meaning from the term, "mid-channel," which latter term we
are told by Mr. Justice Field in Iowa v. Illinois, supra, is used

interchangeably in international law with the term "middle
of the river," "middle of the main channel," "the deepest
channel of the river," etc. The line we contend for, starting
from the point we contend for, would not strike or follow any
channel until it reached the mouth of the river proper, but
would cut across the middle sands, which is an objection to it;
but it is not more objectionable in that respect than the line
contended for by Oregon, starting from the point it contends
for, which, likewise, does not follow any channel until it
reaches the mouth of the river and which cuts across Peacock
Spit in order to reach that point. Considerations of reason and
propriety, addressing themselves to Congress, would all move
the adoption of a line such as that we now contend for rather
than the Oregon line, and we may add that the language of the
law as actually passed by Congress agrees with that line in

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Complainant.

214 U. S.

every particular and cannot be made to agree with the Oregon
line in any particular.
If the north channel is the channel contemplated by the law
as the boundary, then the north ship channel inside the river,
that is, the channel to the north and east of Sand Island,
ceased to exist about the year 1881, or sooner; the volume of
water formerly passing through that channel and constituting
it, cut a new channel for itself through the middle sands south
of Sand Island, and this new channel then became in fact, as
well as in law, the north channel of the river. See Report of
Board of Engineers for the Permanent Improvement of the
Mouth of the Columbia River, October 13, 1882. Record,
pp. 23, 24, 28, 29. Report of Board of Engineers on Project
for Improvement of Mouth of Columbia River, dated January 24, 1903. Record, pp. 53, 54.
In the rule of law applicable to such a change in the position
of a navigable channel constituting a boundary between
States, there is no room for the application of the doctrine of
avulsion. That doctrine applies only where the entire stream
seeks a new bed. It has no application to changing channels
within the original banks of the stream.
The true rule is that the middle thread of the channel must
be followed wherever the channel may have shifted within the
banks of the stream. Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359; Iowa v.
Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23; Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1. It is also the rule of international law. See statement of Dr. Twiss, quoted in Iowa v.
Illinois, 147 U. S. 1, 9.
The stretch of river involving all the islands and sands in
controversy excepting Sand Island, extends from the mouth
of the river eastward up to Three Tree Point, a distance of approximately twenty-five miles. There are only two islands in
the entire lot (Desdemona Sands and Snag Island), the remainder being entirely submerged and only visible at low
tide.
In determining the controversy as to these islands and sands

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

up the river, it will be necessary to take up and construe portions of the act of 1859 not before considered by this court.
The language of the act now to be considered is as follows:
"Thence easterly to and up the middle channel of said river,
and where it is divided by islands, up the middle of the widest
channel thereof, to a point near Fort Walla Walla."
It cannot be supposed that there are three channels extending'from the mouth of the river to Fort Walla Walla.
Therefore the words "middle channel" cannot be given their
literal meaning. It cannot be supposed that the north channel
at the mouth of the river extends as far as Fort Walla Walla.
Therefore, that channel, even if the court adheres to its former
decision that that channel is the one by which the line enters
the mouth of the river, cannot be the dividing line east of
Sand Island. The meaning of the words "middle channel"
must be the same as "mid-channel" or the middle of the main
navigable channel of the river. But the phraseology changes
when the law comes to deal with stretches of the river which
are divided by islands. Then the language is, "up the middle
of the widest channel thereof." Even here there must be a
channel, so that the law does not mean the widest expanse of
water between shore and island. There must also be islands
in the true sense, which means bodies of land surrounded by
water and above water at all times; so that there is no room for
the application of the term "widest channel" except where
there are such islands.
The middle of the widest channel of the river may well be
construed to mean the middle of the best channel of the river.
Congress would not adopt the main navigable channel of the
river as the boundary between the two States throughout
most bf its course, and adopt a different rule for stretches of
the river which are divided by islands. While in the law the
term "middle channel" and "widest channel" appear to be
used in opposition to each other and to mean different things,
this opposition would be lessened by the interpolation of the
words "of the" between the words "middle" and "channel"
voL. ccxiv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Complainant.

214 U. S.

so as to make the law read, "up the middle of the channel,"
and this is permissible, because it is evidently what the lawmakers meant.
As to the channel south of Desdemona Sands, shown on
Washington exhibit "H," there never has been a time from
1859 down to the present day, when that channel has not been
the main channel of the river at that point, the channel which
commerce has followed. Both Jussen and Hegardt, accomplished engineers, prepared test maps which were accurate
reproductions of the several maps issued by the Government,
commencing with that of 1851, and according to those maps,
their hydrography, topography, sailing directions, and aids to
navigation marked thereon, such as beacons and buoys, the
main navigable channel of the river inside the entrance of the
river was now and always had been the line in red and marked
in green on Washington's exhibit "H," "Channel line, 1851."
This line ran to the south of Desdemona Sands. On the question of the continuance of the old north channel up along the
north bank of the river, both of them testified that while there
was deep water along the north bank as far up as Knappton,
it dissipated itself in shoals and shallows immediately above
that point, and that there never had been a channel for oceangoing vessels, along the north bank above Knappton. And
further that the said middle channel was not now and had
never been of sufficient depth to admit the passage of oceangoing vessels and had never been so used.
With reference to the last stretch of the river, the evidence
is that from the earliest times until about 1869, the 1859, or
Woody Island channel, was the only channel used for deep
draft ocean-going vessels and that the better channel of the
present day, was only obtained as the result of extensive
dredging. The old Woody Island channel is the true boundary
between the two States. It was so in 1859 and remained so
until 1869. The action of the public authorities in diverting
that channel cannot be permitted to have the effect of diverting the boundary line. Congress could not do that by enact-

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

ment, and what Congress cannot do directly a mere engineer
officer cannot do indirectly. If this position be sound, then
Snag Island is on the Washington side of the line and belongs
to Washington. The same thing is true of most of the submerged sands in controversy, although their location is not
sufficiently fixed by the evidence, with reference to the line,
to enable us to identify them accurately. However, that does
not seem material at this time. If the rehearing be granted
and Washington's contention as to the true line be then established, the practice is that this court, on proper application,
will order a survey to identify and fix, with reference to the
line, all disputed points.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Mr. HarrisonAllen, Mr. C. W.
Fulton and Mr. A. M. Smith, for defendant contra the petition
for rehearing:
Petitioner contends that "when the north channel has been
closed and the waters diverted elsewhere, one of two results
follows as a matter of law. The waters which flowed through
that channel, which created and constituted it, must be followed wherever they may have been diverted within the banks
of the river, and still must be treated as the north ship channel;
or the north ship channel must be treated as having ceased to
exist, and on the doctrine of avulsion, the boundary between
Oregon and Washington must be established on the line which
that channel followed in 1859."
In the case at bar, Congress, in the Oregon enabling act,
1859, fixed the boundary between the States, parties to this
suit, at the point in controversy, in the middle of the north
ship channel. The United States and the State of Oregon were
the only sovereignties having any interest in the matter at
that date, and the said act of Congress is just as binding on
States formed out of territory then owned by the Federal
Government, as the agreement between Kentucky and Missouri. Construed in Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant.

214 U. S.

that case this court held that if the river had subsequently
turned its course, the status of the parties was not altered by
it, for the channel which the river abandoned remained the
boundary between the States and the island in controversy
did not, in consequence of this action of the water, change
its owner.
Again in the case at bar the testimony shows beyond question that Sand Island was in the territorial limits of Oregon
when the State was admitted into the Union. Washington
not only is bound by the Oregon enabling act of 1859, but by
her legal representatives, and agents, she agreed that the
boundary at the point in dispute was in the north channel,
and that such agreement was ratified by the vote of the people
in adopting her constitution. This being so, if the north ship
channel had, as petitioner contends, so shoaled in 1889, that
ocean-going vessels could neither enter nor depart from the
river through it, then Washington practically agreed to the
boundary being north of Sand Island, after the north channel
had ceased to be a ship channel as far as large ships, or even
those of moderate size, are concerned.
While in early times it may be doubtful whether Sand Island was above high water at all seasons of the year, it cannot be questioned that it has been almost continually occupied
by people actually living thereon for some time prior to the
admission of Washington to the present time.
The construction of a jetty changing the course of a channel
should not change the boundary between States, and take an
island out of one sovereignty and place it in another, when the
natural washing away of the banks of a stream will not have
that effect. See Base v. Russel, 86 Missouri,, 209; Nebraska v.
Iowa, 143 U. S. 359.
Relative to the second proposition in the petition for rehearing, there are no islands shown to exist in or near the north
channel of the Columbia River, after Sand Island is passed,
within that portion of the river involved in this controversy.
There are sand bars in or near the south channel, and a few in

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

or near the north channel, partially bare at low water, but
nothing coming within the definition of an island as the term
is usually understood.
In discussing the meaning of the clause of that portion of
ยง 1 of the Oregon enabling act, defining the boundary, reading
as follows: "Thence easterly, to and up the middle channel of
said river, and, where it is divided by islands up the middle of
the widest channel thereof," etc., petitioner evidently attempts
to show that the widest channel is south of Sand Island, on the
theory that the act means the widest deep water, but such
is not the true construction of the language employed. If the
line starts as the decision herein holds, in the north channel,
then it remains there, in the middle of said channel until we arrive at some point where the same is divided by islands, then
up the widest channel, even if up the widest deep channel as
petitioner urges, it does not bring its case within the rule it invokes. South of Sand Island, the ruling depth is not to exceed fourteen or fifteen feet, while north it is much more, and
the width several times greater.
Petitioner insists that the court misconceived the facts, but
does not controvert the propositions of law announced by the
court in its opinion herein. The physical facts relative to Sand
Island, heretofore referred to, render impossible the application of any other rule than that of the Kentucky-Missouri
case, and the facts relative to Snag Island, its location, the
main ship channel always having been near the north shore,
the same being the north ship channel, called for in the enabling act of Oregon, and the constitution of Washington, and
it being the widest channel as well as the north ship channel,
and the further fact that since long prior to the admission of
Washington, no attempt has been made to use the so-called
Woody Island channel, but that the same was abandoned in
1881 or 1882, and that large vessels never used the same, considered with the history and surrounding circumstances preclude all suggestion of a misconception of the facts by the
court, and no rehearing should be granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

214 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was decided on November 16, 1908, substantially
in favor of the State of Oregon. 211 U. S. 127. On February 17 of this year a petition for rehearing was presented by
the State of Washington. On examination of that petition we
entered an order directing that the parties have leave to file
briefs upon the questidns. They have done so, and we have
reexamined the case with great care.
There are practically two matters presented; one, whether
the boundary near the mouth of the Columbia River was and is
the channel north of Sand Island. We held that it was, and
with that conclusion we are still satisfied. It is unnecessary
to restate the reasons therefor. We may, however, refer to
Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395, as much in point. That
was a controversy between those two States as to the title of
Wolf Island. The treaty between France, Spain and England
in February, 1763, stipulated that the middle of the Mississippi
should be the boundary between the British and French territories on the continent of North America. This was recognized
by the treaty of peace with Great Britain in 1783, and different
treaties since then. The boundaries of Missouri when she was
admitted into the Union as a State in 1820 were fixed on this
basis. Kentucky had succeeded in 1792 to the right and possession of Virginia, which, by virtue of the treaties referred to,
extended to the middle of the bed of the Mississippi. The
main channel of the Mississippi had been up to at least 1820
west of the island. There was testimony that since then it had
changed to the east side. Nevertheless the court held that the
island remained still a part of Kentucky, saying (p. 401):
"It follows, therefore, that if Wolf Island in 1763, or in
1820, or at any intermediate period between these dates, was
east of this line, the jurisdiction of Kentucky rightfully attached to it. If the river has subsequently turned its course,
and now runs east of the island, the status of the parties to
this controversy is not altered by it, for the channel which the

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

river abandoned remains, as before, the boundary between the
States and the island does not, in consequence of this action
of the water, change its owner."
So whatever changes have come in the north channel, and
although the volume of water and the depth of that channel
have been constantly diminishing, yet, as all resulted from
processes of accretion, or, perhaps, also of late years from the
jetties constructed by Congress at the mouth of the river, the
boundary is still that channel, the precise line of separation
being the varying center of that channel. Jefferis v. East
Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178; Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S.

359; Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196
U. S. 23; Louisianav. Mississippi, 202 U. S.1.

The other question arises in this way. The act admitting
Oregon, after naming as the commencement of the boundary
"a point due west and opposite the middle of the north ship
channel of the Columbia River," adds "thence easterly, to and
up the middle channel of said river, and, where it is divided by
islands, up the middle of the widest channel thereof to a point
near Fort Walla Walla." With reference to this we said: "The
testimony fails to show anything calling for consideration in
respect to the last clause in the quotation from the boundary
of Oregon. The channel is not divided by islands." Now, it is
alleged that there is set forth in the bill of complaint and admitted in the answer that a controversy has arisen as to the
boundary lines, and that both of said States claim and assume
to exercise jurisdiction over numerous islands and sands in
said Columbia River, sixteen of which are enumerated by name.
While sixteen islands and sands are mentioned, yet in the
brief filed by the plaintiff on the application for a rehearing it
is stated that, outside of Sand Island, the title to which is,
as shown in the former opinion settled by the decision of the
first question, only two, Desdemona Sands and Snag Island,
can be called islands, the remainder being entirely submerged
and only visible at low tide. These two, therefore, are all that
can come within the definition in the boundary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

That speaks of "the middle channel of said river," and
counsel contend that there is no pretense of three channels,
and therefore the language should properly be construed as
the middle of the main channel of said river, and we are inclined to think that that is the true construction. But it must
be remembered that the boundary in the first instance passes
around the north of Sand Island, in what was known as the
north channel, and it does not strike any channel which deserves to be called the main channel until it has passed to the
eastward of Sand Island. While the testimony is not satisfactory as to the point, at the time of the admission of the
State of Oregon, at which this north channel, after passing
Sand Island, touched any other channel, we are of the opinion
that it must have been at a point east and north of Desdemona
Sands. Of course, in considering this matter we assume that
the contention of the State of Washington is correct, that
Desdemona Sands could have then properly been termed an
island.
With reference to Snag Island, the question is a difficult one.
We agree with counsel that the term "widest channel" does
not mean the broadest expanse of water. There must be in the
first instance a channel--that is, a flow of water deep enough
to be used and in fact used by vessels in passing up and down
the river; but it does not mean the deepest channel but simply
the widest expanse of water which can reasonably be called a
channel. Now, close to Snag Island there appear several
channels, the principal ones being Woody Island channel and
Cordell channel, both used at different times by vessels navigating the river. The Cordell channel runs to the north of
Snag Island, the Woody channel to the south, while the boundary claimed by the State of Oregon runs in a channel far to the
north of both Woody Island and Cordell channels.
Further, it appears that in December, 1877, the State of
Oregon conveyed Snag Island, in consideration of the sum of
$143.75, to J. W. and V. Cook. While of course this is not
conclusive, yet taken in connection with the fact that the

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Washington has never attempted to interfere with the
jurisdiction of the State of Oregon over Snag Island, and the
doubt that hangs about the position and depth and width of
the various channels in the vicinity at the time of the admission of the State of Oregon, we hold that that island is within
its territorial limits.
It must be borne in mind that an inquiry of this kind is attended with much difficulty. Here is a river of great width,
three miles or so at certain places, whose bed is largely of sand,
and whose channels have been naturally affected by'the flow
of the water, and also of late years by the jetties constructed
by the Government in order to facilitate navigation. Congress, evidently recognizing the difficulty which attended the
location of the exact boundaries, provided that the States of
Washington and Oregon should have concurrent "jurisdiction
in civil and criminal cases upon the Columbia River." Yet
this provision does not determine the boundaries between the
two States, and has proved insufficient to settle the disputes
between them as to things done upon the Columbia River.
Nielsen v. Oregon, 212 U. S.315.
We may be pardoned if, in closing this opinion, we refer to
the following:
"Joint Resolution To enable the States of Mississippi and
Arkansas to agree upon a boundary line and to determine
the jurisdiction of crimes committed on the Mississippi
River and adjacent territory.
'Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the consent of the Congress of the United States is hereby given to the
States of Mississippi and Arkansas to enter into such agreement or compact as they may deem desirable or necessary,
not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, or
any law thereof, to fix the boundary line between said States,
where the Mississippi River now, or formerly, formed the said
boundary line and to cede respectively each to the other such

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

tracts or parcels of the territory of each State as may have become separated from the main body thereof by changes in
the course or channel of the Mississippi River and also to adjudge and settle the jurisdiction to be exercised by said States,
respectively, over offenses arising out of the violation of the
laws of said States upon the waters of the Mississippi River.
"Approved January 26, 1909."
Similar ones have passed Congress in reference to the boundaries between Mississippi and Louisiana and Tennessee and
Arkansas. We submit to the States of Washington and Oregon whether it will not be wise for them to pursue the same
course, and, with the consent of Congress, through the aid of
commissioners, adjust, as far as possible, the present appropriate boundaries between the two States and their respective
jurisdiction.
The petition for rehearing is
Denied.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF HART

COUNTY,

STATE OF

KENTUCKY.

No. 144.

Argued April 8, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where the state court denied the contention of plaintiff in error, defendant below, that a state statute as applied to transportation of
an article from one State to another was in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution, a Federal question is involved and
this court has jurisdiction. Western Turf Association v. Greenberg,
204 U. S. 359.
However obnoxious and hurtful, in the judgment of many, liquor may
be, it is a recognized article of commerce, Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100; and a state law denying the right to send it from one State to another is in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States. Vance v. Vandercook Co., No. 1,170 U. S.438.

