OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in order to
be reviewable here.
It 'follows that the writ of error must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

ROGERS v. JONES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 196.

Submitted April 27, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where the disposition of a Federal question is not necessary to the determination of the cause and the judgment is based on a distinct nonFederal ground broad enough to sustain it the writ of error cannot
be maintained.
Where an act of Congress providing for sale of real estate by a marshal
does not define a good and valid description, the question of sufficiency of description is one of general law; and so held in regard to
ยง 4 of the act of February 16, 1839, c. 27, 5 Stat. 317, referring to
time and place for making judicial sales in Mississippi; and further
held that even if the time and place of sale were wrong under the
statute, this court had no jurisdiction as the judgment rested on
plaintiff's failure to deraign a title and other non-Federal questions
sufficient to sustain it.
THIS was a bill in equity brought by Rogers and others,
plaintiffs in error, November 11, 1903, in the Chancery Court
for Harrison County, Mississippi, to remove certain alleged
clouds from the title to lands situated in that county, and to
be put in possession of said lands, against J. T. Jones, Harrison County, and the persons constituting the board of supervisors of the county, as individuals and as composing that
board.
Defendants demurred, and the demurrer was overruled by
the Chancellor. An appeal was taken from this decree to the
Supreme Court of Mississippi, where the decree of the lower
court was reversed and the cause remanded. Jones v. Rogers,

ROGERS v. JONES.
214 U. S,

Statement of the Case.

85 Mississippi, 802. Thereupon plaintiffs in error filed an
amended bill. To the amended bill Jones and the county severally filed demurrers and also answers denying certain allegations of fraud. On hearing the Chancellor sustained the clemurrers, and plaintiffs in error, refusing to amend or plead
further, the amended bill was dismissed December 23, 1905.
From this decree plaintiffs in error appealed to the state Supreme Court, where it was affirmed October 22, 1906, and from
this judgment plaintiffs in error have prosecuted the pending
writ of error.
The material averments of the amended bill were that plaintiffs in error claimed title to certain lands described in the bill,
by virtue of a purchase of said lands by "their ancestor," John
Martin, at a sale of said lands on October 28, 1839, made by
the United States marshal under an execution on a judgment
of the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi, against one James McLaren.
That plaintiffs in error are the "legal descendants and sole
surviving heirs at law of John Martin, deceased, who died intestate in the city of New Orleans, and State of Louisiana, during the year 1848." That Martin, at the time of his death, was
seized and possessed of, in fee simple, in addition to other
lands, certain described lands or parcels of land, which include
the lands in controversy, situated in the town of Gulfport,
county of Harrison (Hancock County at the time of the sale),
and State of Mississippi. That plaintiffs in error are tenants
in common, and all derived their title "from their common
ancestor, John Martin, by descent." That James McLaren
acquired said lands by sales from the United States Government, dated December 11, 1834, and a patent dated January 5,
1841.
That at the sale of the land under an execution on the judgment against McLaren, Martin became the highest and best
bidder at and for the sum of $760, and the same was knocked
off to him by the United States marshal, and the purchase
money was then and there paid by Martin to the marshal, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

he was then and there put into possession, and so remained
until his death, in the year 1848.
The amended bill further averred that the land was in Harrison County, Mississippi, and that John Martin never sold nor
made any disposition of any kind of the lands; that plaintiffs
in error have been all the while in constructive possession of
the lands since the death of John Martin, in 1848, and that no
person or persons ever went into actual possession of the lands
until the county of Harrison or the board of supervisors thereof
took possession under deed of June 4, 1902, from J. T. Jones.
The bill alleged upon belief that at the sale a deed to the
lands was made by the marshal to John Martin, and in this
connection the bill further alleged that another sale of lands
was made on the same execution, and that deeds were made
by the marshal to the purchasers at said sale.
That McLaren died intestate, leaving no heirs at law, either
lineal or collateral, and that the lands never eseheated to the
State of Mississippi.
The bill further alleged that while plaintiffs in error were
minors the administrator of MeLaren procured a certified copy
of the judgment and execution and proceedings of the sale,
and, with the purpose of depriving plaintiffs in error of their
legal right and title to the lands, organized a company to take
charge of the lands, concealing the facts of the said sale. That
the company kept the facts of the real ownership from the
plaintiffs in error, and sold some of the lands without knowledge of their legal rights to said property until the last four or
five years. That as soon as the facts of the purchase and ownership of the lands by John Martin was made known to them,
plaintiffs in error at once began to take the necessary legal
steps to begin suit to establish the claim.
The bill also alleged that defendants in error had full notice
of the claim to the title of plaintiffs in error, but they accepted
the gift of the land in controversy from J. T. Jones, and had
full knowledge of the fraud that had been practiced upon them
from its beginning to the present time. That on June 4, 1902,

ROGERS v. JONES.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Jones conveyed by deed the land in Gulfport, as a gift, to the
board of supervisors of Harrison County, with the condition
that should the county of Harrison at any time cease to use
the lands for the court house they should revert to Jones.
The bill further stated that if the Supreme Court of Mississippi should decide against the validity of the marshal's sale
under the judgment and execution, plaintiffs in error "claim
the right and benefit of an appeal from the final decree to the
Supreme Court of the United States."
The original bill had averred, "par parenthesis, that they
are claiming their rights and title to this property under a
marshal's sale made under and by virtue of the laws and Constitution of the United States of America, and they now and
here desire to lay the proper predicate, so that they may have
these proceedings in this case revised and reviewed by the
Supreme Court of the United States, in case the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi is adverse to
their lawful, just, and bona fide claim, having derived the
same from the patentee of these lands."
The answers of the supervisors and of Jones denied notice
or knowledge of any fraud on complainants, and having answered the bill for the purposes of that denial prayed the judgment of the court on the demurrers.
Mr. Frank Johnston and Mr. A. Y. Harper for plaintiffs in
error:
The writ of error will lie in this case as the Supreme Court
of Mississippi erroneously held that the judicial sale, made by
the United States marshal under which the plaintiffs in error
claim title to the lands in controversy was irregular and void
and conferred no title. Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S. 305, 310,
citing and reviewing the following cases: Collier v. Stanbrough,
6 How. 14; Erwin v. Lowry, 7 How. 172; Clements v. Berry, 11
How. 398; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Buck v. Colbath,
3 Wall. 334; Etheridge v. Sperry, 139 U. S. 266; Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628; Day v. Gallup, 2 Wall. 97; Dupasseur v.

COBBRR TERM, Ik&8
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

214 U. S.

Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; McKenna v. Simpson, 129 U. S. 506;
O'Brien v. Weld, 92 U. S. 81; Factors & Traders' Ins. Co. v.
Murphy, 111 U. S. 738; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255;
Pitts. & Cin. Railroadv. Long Island L. & T. Co., 172 U. S. 493;
Tulloch v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497, 507, citing: Avery v. Popper, 179 U. S. 305; and Crescent Live Stock Co. v. Butchers'
Union, 120 U. S. 141; Meyers v. Block, 120 U. S. 206; Commercial Pub. Co. v. Beck with, 188 U. S. 567, 569; Sharpe v.
Doyle, 102 U. S. 686, 688; McNulta v. Lochridge, 141 U. S. 327,
331; cited in: Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12, 19; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.
v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514, 526.
A Federal question is sufficiently set up or claimed when it
appears that the contentions involving it were raised by the
pleadings or called to the attention of the court in some proper
way. Tulloch v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497, 503; Sayward v.
Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Yates
v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, 167.
The non-Federal question of the statute of limitations,
which was decided by the Supreme Court of Mississippi on the
first appeal, has been eliminated from the case by the amended
bill and the answer of the defendants in error thereto; and also
by a subsequent decision in another case overruling that part
of the opinion.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Mississippi on the
first appeal, Rogers v. Jones, 85 Mississippi, 802, has been expressly overruled in the subsequent case of Kennedy v. Sanders, 90 Mississippi, 524, which held that the real ground of
the decision was the question of the validity of the title of
plaintiffs in error, and that that part of the opinion in respect
to the statute of limitations was a mere dictum, and, furthermore, was incorrectly decided.
If, therefore, the question of the statute of limitations
were in this case (which we deny) the decision of it by the
Supreme Court on the first appeal would have to be held by
this court to be palpably erroneous. Johnson v. Risk, 137
U. S. 300, 307; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590; Maguire

ROGERS v. JONES
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

v. Tyler, 8 Wall. 650, 664, 665; Berea College v. Kentucky, 211
U. S. 45, 53.
A certificate of a court of last resort may serve to elucidate
the determination whether a Federal question exists. Ill. Cent.
R. R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514, 525.
Where on error to the Supreme Court of the State, the
record shows a decision of the state court on a Federal question
properly presented, and of which this court could take jurisdiction, and shows also the decision of the local question, the
writ of error will not be dismissed on motion in advance of the
hearing. The parties are entitled to be heard on the soundness
of the decision below on the Federal question, on the sufficiency of that question to control the judgment in the whole
case, and on the sufficiency of any other point decided to
affirm the judgment, even if the Federal question was erroneously decided. Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 20 Wall. 643.
It is the duty of the state courts to decide Federal questions;
if errors supervene, the remedy is open to the aggrieved party.
Arkansas v. Kansas &c. Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185, 190; Water
Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184, 193; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S.
624.
Mr. Tames H. Neville and Mr. W. A. White for defendants
in error:
The bare averment of a Federal question is not sufficient;
there must at least be color or ground for such averment.
Hamlin v. Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531.
The only color, or reasons for the averment in the instant
case are, first, that plaintiffs claimed under a sale by a United
States marshal-a Federal officer. Secondly, that they derived their rights from the patentee of the United States.
The fact that a party to a suit is a receiver of a United
States court does not necessarily create a Federal question
authorizing a review of the case by the Supreme Court of the
United States. Bausman v. Dixon, 173 U. S. 113; Lincoln
Banc v. First Nat. Bank, 172 U. S. 425.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

214 U. S.

Nor does the fact that plaintiffs in error claim lands under
a patentee of the United States create such Federal question.
Blackburn v. Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; McStay v. Friedman,
92 U. S. 723; Little York Gold Co. v. Keys, 96 U. S. 199; Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutler, 177 U. S. 505.
There was no question before the Supreme Court of Mississippi in this case as to the validity of the patent from the
United States to James McLaren, nor'as to the nature or extent of the estate it conveyed. All parties to the suit concede
that the patent vested a fee simple title in McLaren. The
controversy is who now holds that title. Therefore the pleadings in this case wholly failed to state any question of a Federal nature which the Mississippi courts could have determined
adversely to plaintiffs in error.
The determination by a state court of a Federal question
adversely to the plaintiff in error will not sustain the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States, if another
question not Federal was also raised and decided against him
and the decision thereof is sufficient, notwithstanding the Federal question to sustain the judgment. Harrison v. Morton,
171 U. S. 38; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207; Egan v. Hart, 165
U. S. 188; Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674; Pierce v. Somerset R. R. Co., 171 U. S. 641; Chappel! Chemical Co. v. Sulphur Mines Co., 172 U. S. 465; Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S.
394; Union Nat. Bank v. Louisville R. R. Co., 163 U. S. 325.
It is not enough to give the Supreme Court of the United
States jurisdiction over the judgment of a state court, for the
record to show that a Federal queston was argued or presented to that court for decision. It must appear that such
Federal question was necessary to the determination of the
cause and that it was actually decided, or that the judgment
could not have been given without deciding it. Moore v.
Mississippi, 21 Wall. 636; Bolling v. Lersner, 91 U. S. 594;
Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327; Citizens' Bank v. Board of Liquidation, 98 U. S. 140; Endowment Assn. v. Kansas, 120 U. S.
103; Marrow v. Brinkley, 129 U. S. 178; Church v. Kelsey, 121

ROGERS v. JONES.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 282; DeSaussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216; Blount v.
Walker, 134 U. S. 607; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300; Cook
County v. Calumet Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635; Wood Mach. Co.
v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293.
Where one of the points decided in the Supreme Court of
a State against the plaintiff in error would be a sufficient
ground for the exercise of jurisdiction by the Supreme Court
of the United States, yet if the decree is also based on another
and distinct ground over which the National Court has no
jurisdiction-as the statute of limitations of the State-the
decree is beyond the revisory power of the Supreme Court of
the United States. Rector v. Ashley, 6 Wall. 142.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In entering the decree of December 23, 1905, the Chancellor
manifestly proceeded on the decision of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, reported in 85 Mississippi, 802, as did the Supreme
Court in affirming, October 22, 1906, the Chancellor's decree.
To this decree the pending writ of error was allowed and issued
September 18, 1907.
The contention is that, in determining the rights of plaintiffs in error, the Mississippi Supreme Court put a wrong construction upon the special act of Congress of February 16,
1838, referring to the time and place for the making of judicial
sales in Mississippi, in that it held that the marshal's sale relied on as the foundation of title was made at the wrong place.
But the Supreme Court made other and decisive rulings, as
well as that in reference to the place of the alleged sale.
In the first place, that court held that the alleged return on
the writ of fieri facias did not describe the lands in controversy,
and therefore could not confer title, even though regular and
valid. The act of Congress of February 16, 1839, did not attempt to define what is and what is not a good and valid
description of real estate, or to make any rule by which a purchaser at a marshal's sale could take possession of lands other

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

than those specifically described in the process. The question
of a sufficient description was a question of general law.
In the second place, the court held that under the Mississippi statute authorizing suits of the character then before the
court, plaintiffs in error had not deraigned a title to the lands
in controversy, which, under the Mississippi statute under
which the suit was instituted, was a fatal objection to the bill.
In the third place, the court held that the claim of plaintiffs
in error was barred by the Mississippi statute of limitations,
in that it failed to show possession by the plaintiffs, or their
ancestor, during the sixty-four years that intervened between
the marshal's sale and the bringing of the suit, and did not,
as required by the rules of practice in courts of equity in Mississippi, show that it was the defendants or those in privity
with them who had fraudulently concealed from plaintiffs the
evidence of their claim.
It is true that the Supreme Court of Mississippi in the subsequent case of Kennedy .v. Sanders, 90 Mississippi, 524, decided May 20, 1907, overruled the ruling in Jones v. Rogers,
applying the ten-year statute of limitations, and quoting what
the court then observed in that regard, said that "this announcement was not necessary to the decision in Jones v.
Rogers, for the court had already held that the complainants
in that case had deraigned no title." And it will have been
perceived that this writ of error runs to the judgment of the
Supreme Court of October 22, 1906.
The result is, therefore, that this writ of error comes within
the rule that where the disposition of a Federal question was
not necessary to the determination of the cause and the judgment is based on a distinct ground or grounds broad enough
to sustain it, over which this court has no jurisdiction, the writ
of error cannot be maintained.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

disposition of this case.

took no part in the consideration and

