OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

in some way it had lost it, because in the course of its proceedings it disregarded certain provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure which were binding upon it. But clearly no such question is open on a collateral attack, such at this is, and we need
delay no further upon that point.
There were other questions in the case, which the view we
have taken of it render it unnecessary to consider.
We are of the opinion that the judgment of the United
States Provisional Court was not a nullity and that the sale on
execution, under which the defendants claim, conveyed to
them a good title. As the court below took the same view, its
judgment is
Affirmed.
By agreement No. 128, Santiago v. Gonzalez y Rodriguez;
No. 129, Santiago v. Moscoso; No. 130, Santiago v. Ana Semidey, widow of Antonio Costa, abide the result of this case,
and corresponding judgments will be entered in them.

TUPINO v. LA COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE
FILIPINAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 148.

Argued April 14, 15, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Distinct judgments in favor of or against distinct parties, though in
the same record, cannot be joined to give this court jurisdiction.
While in case of joint entry and ouster, where the answer of all defendants takes issue without setting up separate claims to distinct
parcels, and the judgment for recovery of possession is against all
defendants jointly, the measure of appellate jurisdiction is the value
of the whole land, Friend v. Wise, 111 U. S. 797, where there is no
allegation of joint ownership or joint possession, and the controversy
with each defendant relates to a separate and distinct parcel, and
judgment is rendered separately, the measure as to each defendant
is the value of his separate parcel. Tupper v. Wise, 110 U. S. 398.
Nor does this court have jurisdiction in such a case if the judgment

TUPINO v. COMPANIA DE TABACOS.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were jointly against the defendants for damages where the total
amount awarded is less than the jurisdictional amount.
Writ of error to review 2 Philippine, 142, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John C. Gittings, with whom Mr. William Steele Grey
and Mr. JustinM. Chamberlainwere on the brief, for plaintiffs
inerror.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton,
Mr. W. A. Kincaid and Mr. A. H. Blount were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought this action for the recovery
of certain lands, in the Court of First Instance of the Philippine
Islands, against eighty-four persons, who are now the plaintiffs
in error. The prayer of the complaint was for restoration of
possession, for damages and an injunction against further
disturbance of the plaintiff's right. The Court of First Instance rendered judgment for the plaintiff, awarding the relief prayed for, and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands. The case is now here upon
writ of error, accompanied by a large number of assignments
of error. The defendant in error has moved to dismiss the
writ for lack of jurisdiction of this court to entertain it, and
that motion must first receive consideration.
The jurisdiction of this court is rested by the plaintiffs in
error solely upon the ground that the value of the real estate
in controversy exceeds the sum of $25,000. Section 10 of act
approved July 1, 1902, part 1, 32 Stat. 691, 695. The disposition of the motion to dismiss turns upon the question whether,
within the true meaning of the statute, land of the value of
$25,000 was in controversy. In the solution of this question
it is useful to examine the pleadings, the course of the trial
and the judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S,

The company alleged itself to be the owner of lands known
as the Hacienda de San Luis y la Concepcion, having certain
defined boundaries and an area of some four thousand hectareas. The complaint further alleged "that the defendants
above named, for more than orle and less than six years ago,
illegally seized and continued to hold certain portions of the
said property," having an "area of four hundred and fortysix hectareas, seventy-nine areas and four centiareas as to the
fields, and four hectareas, approximately, as to the lots on
which their houses and warehouses are built, distributed
among distinct and separate parcels, but all within the perimeter of the said estate above described, and for a better understanding thereof the following statement is given of the
parcels held by each one of the defendants." There then follows eighty-four separate descriptions of the separate holdings
of each of the defendants. The case of Miguel Tupifio is agreed
upon by the parties as typical of the others, and the allegation
with respect to him is, "Miguel Tupiflo has a lot of six areas
with a dwelling and two warehouses thereon, and two fields,
containing four hectareas and fifty areas and two hectareas
and twenty-five areas, respectively." Then follows an allegation that "the plaintiff has been damaged in the sum of nine
thousand Mexican pesos by reason of the unlawful detention
above described," and the complaint closes with the prayer
before stated.
Each of the defendants filed separate answers. The answer
of Tupifio may be taken as a type. In it he denies the title of
the plaintiff and that it suffered the damages alleged; denies,
specifically, that the plaintiff had a record title to the portion
of the land described as possessed by him; denies that that
portion of the land was situated within the boundaries of the
Hacienda de San Luis y la Concepcion; denies that the plaintiff is the owner of the portion of the land described as possessed by the defendant or any part thereof, or that the plaintiff has ever been entitled to the possession thereof; denies
that the plaintiff has any interest in the portion of the land

TUPI O v. COMPANIA DE TABACOS.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

described as possessed by the defendant or ever has had any;
denies that the defendant has unlawfully withheld from the
plaintiff the portion of land described as possessed by the defendant.
In the opinion of the Judge of the Court of First Instance
he describes the defense in part as being "That each and every
one of them (the defendants) is the owner of the parcel of land
occupied by him, because it has been cultivated and possessed
by some of them for more than ten years and by all of them
for more than one year."
After the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands had rendered its judgment the defendants made a motion for a rehearing, in which they complained that the court had overlooked an assignment of error in assessing damages jointly
against all the defendants, and said, in this connection, "inasmuch as each of said defendants is alleged by plaintiff, and
found by the trial court, to be occupying a distinct and separate parcel of land, with no privity or community of interest
with his codefendants, and each of said defendants has filed
a separate answer for such distinct parcel and maintained
a separate defense."
It is very clear, although the plaintiff claimed under a single
title all the land occupied separately by the various defendants,
that the action itself was not against the defendants as joint
disseisors, but was an action against each of them separately
as the holder of a distinct parcel or parcels of land. There was
no allegation, in either the complaint or the answer, of joint
ownership or joint possession or joint action of any kind. The
proceeding, in effect, consisted of eighty-four separate and
distinct actions against the eighty-four defendants. The complaint alleged that each defendant was in possession of a separate and distinct parcel of land described separately, however
inadequately. The answer of each defendant, while denying
in toto the title of the plaintiff, in other respects related solely
to the tract of land alleged to be unlawfully held by that
particular defendant. Undoubtedly, where a complaint al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

leges a joint entry and ouster, and the answer takes issue, without setting up separate claims to distinct parcels by the several
defendants, and the judgment for the recovery of possession
is against all the defendants jointly, then the measure of appellate jurisdiction is the value of the whole land. Friend v.
Wise, 111 U. S. 797. But where the pleadings show that there
was no allegation of joint ownership or joint possession, and
that the controversy with each defendant related to a separate
and distinct lot of land, and the judgment is rendered separately against the defendants, then the measure of jurisdiction on appeal or writ of error isnot the value of the whole
land, but the value of each part separately. Tupper v. Wise,
110 U. S.398, where it was said: "The rule is well settled that
distinct judgments in favor of or against distinct parties,
though in the same record, cannot be joined to give this court
jurisdiction."
We think that the case at bar falls within the rule of Tupper
v. Wise. It appears in point of fact that the value of the whole
land, which the plaintiff sought to recover in separate parcels
from the eighty-four defendants exceeds $25,000. But it also
appears that the value of the land in controversy with any
one of the defendants is far less than $25,000.
Stopping at this point, it would follow that the writ of error
should be dismissed. But the form of the judgment in this
case is peculiar and must receive consideration before the motion to dismiss is finally disposed of. The judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands simply affirmed the
judgment of the Court of First Instance. In that court, as
there was no formal judgment, the terms of it must be gathered
from the opinion of the Judge. The opinion concludes as
follows:
"I decide; First, that the Compaflia General de Tabacos
de Filipinas shall be restored by the sheriff or by any of his
deputies, to the possession of the hacienda San Luis y la Concepcion by giving possession thereof to D. Miguel Macias y
Toro, or any other person lawfully representing the said com-

TUPIRO v. COMPANIA DE TABACOS.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany. . . . Third, that both the present defendants as
well as those declared in default, be required to immediately
vacate the said hacienda or be evicted therefrom, together with
their houses and warehouses. Fourth, that the preliminary
injunction issued on the 15th of November last, and modified
on the third inst., be regarded as perpetual from this date, and
the injunction bond of $10,000 given is to be cancelled after
the proper legal formalities. The tobacco in the hands of the
receiver will be delivered to the Compafiia General, and the
bond given by the receiver cancelled, after rendition by him
of the accounts of his receivership. Fifth, and last, that the
defendants present, and those in default, pay the costs and
damages in the sum of nine thousand Mexican pesos; and
finally, that the said defendants are enjoined absolutely from
performing any act hereafter tending in the slightest degree
to disturb the possession by the Compafiia General of the
lands comprised within the hacienda of San Luis y la Concepcion. So ordered."
If this language is to be taken as expressing the judgment
of the court, it certainly has some tendency to show that the
judgment for the restoration of the lands was a joint one
against all the defendants. But we are not inclined to scrutinize too strictly the language of a learned Judge trained in
another system of jurisprudence than our own, and in view
of the separate issues clearly made by the pleadings and the
prayer of the complaint that the plaintiff be restored "to the
possession of the various parcels of the said estate above indicated, after the eviction or expulsion therefrom of all the
defendants, including the houses and warehouses which they
have erected thereon," we construe this judgment to run
separately against each defendant for that part of the land
of which he was alleged and found to be in
possession. It was
so treated by the Judge of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands, in refusing to allow a writ of error. The judgment
for damages appears to be, so far as we can see, a joint judgment against all the defendants. But even the whole amount
VOL. CCXIV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

of the damages, 9,000 Mexican pesos, added to the value of
the land in controversy with any of the defendants, does not
make a sum exceeding $25,000. We think, therefore, that
the writ of error must be dismissed.
It may not be improper to say that if we had jurisdiction on
this writ of error we should find grave difficulty in sustaining
the joint judgment for damages against all the defendants,
if, indeed, we have properly construed it to be joint. But we
have no such jurisdiction, and therefore refrain from deciding
that point. Doubtless, if there is anything in it, some way

may be found, by application to the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, to correct the error, if any exists.
Writ of errordismissed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. CHILES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

No. 168.

Argued April 20, 1909.-Decided May 24, 1909.

Where plaintiff in error, defendant below, in a suit for penalty under a
state law asks and the court refuses an instruction that if the jury
find that the default occurred within a navy yard, over which the
United States had exclusive jurisdiction, the recovery could not be
had under the state law, this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment.
The Norfolk Navy Yard is one of the places over which, under Art. I,
ยง 8, par. 17 of the Constitution, Congress possesses exclusive power
of legislation, and that exclusive power necessarily includes exclusive
jurisdiction; and it is of the highest importance that the jurisdiction
of the State should be resisted at the border of such places. Fort
Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525.
The State cannot inflict a penalty for the non-delivery of a telegram
within the limits of a place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States; and so held that under the statute of Virginia in that
regard the penalty cannot be collected for the non-delivery of a tele-

