WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Syllabus.

WELCH v. SWASEY ET AL., AS THE BOARD OF APPEAL FROM THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER OF
THE CITY OF BOSTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 153. Argued April 15, 16, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.
Whether a state statute is illegal because it delegates legislative power
to a commission does not raise a Federal question.
A statute limiting the height of buildings cannot be justified under the
police power unless it has some fair tendency to accomplish, or aid
in the accomplishment of, some purpose for which that power can be
used; if the means employed, pursuant to the statute, have no real
substantial relation to such purpose, or if the statute is arbitrary,
unreasonable and beyond the necessities of the case, it is invalid as
taking property without due process of law.
In determining the validity of a state statute affecting height of buildings, local conditions must be considered; and, while the judgment
of the highest court may not be conclusive, it is entitled to the greatest respect, and will not be interfered with unless clearly wrong.
Where the highest court of the State has held that there is reasonable
ground for classification between the commercial and residential
portions of a city as to the height of buildings, based on practical and
not msthetic grounds, and that the police power is not to be exercised
for merely Tsthetic purposes, this court will not hold that such a
statute, upheld by the state court, prescribing different heights in
different sections of the city is unconstitutional as discriminating
against, and denying equal protection of the law to, the owners of
property in the district where the lower height is prescribed.
Where there is justification for the enactment of a police statute
limiting the height of buildings in a particular district, an owner of
property in that district is not entitled to compensation for the
reasonable interference with his property by the statute.
Chapters 333 of the acts of 1904 and 383 of the acts of 1905 of Massachusetts, limiting the heights of buildings in Boston and prescribing
different heights in different sections of the city are, in view of the
decision of the highest court of Massachusetts holding that the discrimination is based upon reasonable grounds, a proper exercise of the
police power of the State, and are not unconstitutional under the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
193 Massachusetts, 364, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

THE plaintiff in error duly applied to the justices of the
Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Massachusetts for a
mandamus against the defendants, who constitute a board of
appeal from the Building Commissioner of the City of Boston,
to compel the defendants to issue a permit to him to build on
his lot on the corner of Arlington and Marlborough streets, in
that city. The application was referred by the justice presiding to the full court, and was by it denied (193 Massachusetts,
364), and the plaintiff has brought the case here by writ of
error.
The action of defendants in refusing the permit was based on
the statutes of Massachusetts, chap. 333 of the acts of 1904,
and chap. 383 of the acts of 1905. The two acts are set forth
in the margin. 1 The reason for the refusal to grant the building
1 Acts of 1904, Chapter 333.
An Act Relative to the Height of Buildings in the City of Boston.

Be it enacted, etc., as follows:
SECTION 1. The city of Boston shall be divided into districts of two
classes, to be designated districts A and B. The boundaries of the
said districts, established as hereinafter provided, shall continue for a
period of fifteen years, and shall be determined in such manner that
those parts of the city in which all or the greater part of the buildings
situate therein are at the time of such determination used for business
or commercial purposes shall be included in the district or districts
designated A, and those parts of the city in which all or the greater
part of the buildings situate therein are at the said time used for residential purposes or for other purposes not business or commercial
shall be in the district or districts designated B.
SEC. 2. Upon the passage of this act the mayor of the city shall appoint a commission of three members, to be called "Commission on
Height of Buildings in the City of Boston." The commission shall immediately upon its appointment give notice and public hearings, and
shall make an order establishing the boundaries of the districts aforesaid, and within one month after its appointment shall cause the same
to be recorded in the registry of deeds for the county of Suffolk. The
boundaries so established shall continue for a period of fifteen years
from the date of the said recording. Any person who is aggrieved by
the said order may, within thirty days after the recording thereof, appeal to the commission for a revision; and the commission may, within

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

permit was because the building site for the proposed building
was situated in one of the districts B, as created under the provisions of the acts mentioned, in which districts the height of
six months after its appointment, revise such order, and the revision
shall be recorded in the registry of deeds for the county of Suffolk, and
shall date back to the original date of recording. The members of the
commission shall serve until the districts have been established as aforesaid; and any vacancy in the commission caused by resignation, death
or inability to act shall be filled by the mayor, on written application by
the remaining members of the commission or of ten inhabitants of the
city. The members of the commission shall receive such compensation
as the mayor shall determine.
SEC. 3. In the city of Boston no building shall be erected to a height
of more than one hundred and twenty-five feet above the grade of the
street in any district designated A, and no building shall be erected to
a height of more than eighty feet above the grade of the street in any
district designated B. These restrictions shall not apply to grain or
coal elevators or sugar refineries in any district designated A, nor to
steeples, domes, towers or cupolas erected for strictly ornamental
purposes, of fireproof material, on buildings of the above height or less
in any district. The Supreme Judicial Court and the Superior Court
shall each have jurisdiction in equity to enforce the provisions of this
act, and to restrain the violation thereof.
SEC. 4. This act shall take effect upon its passage. (Approved
May 13, 1904.)
Acts of 1905, Chapter 383.
An Act Relative to the Height of Buildings in the City of Boston.
Be it enacted, etc., as follows:
SECTION 1. Within thirty days after the passage of this act the
mayor of the city of Boston shall appoint a commission of three members to determine, in accordance with the conditions hereinafter provided, the height of buildings within the district designated by the
commission on height of buildings in the city of Boston as district B,
in accordance with chapter three hundred and thirty-three of the
acts of the year nineteen hundred and four.
SEC. 2. Said commission shall immediately upon its appointment
give notice and public hearings, and shall make an order establishing
the boundaries of or otherwise pointing out such parts, if any, of said
district B as it may designate in which buildings may be erected to a
height exceeding eighty feet but not exceeding one hundred feet, and
the height between eighty feet and one hundred feet to which build-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

214 U. S.

the buildings is limited to eighty, or, in some cases, to one hundred feet, while the height of buildings in districts A is limited
to one hundred and twenty-five feet. The height of the building which plaintiff in error proposed to build and for which he
asked the building permit was stated by him in his application
therefor to be one hundred and twenty-four feet, six inches.
The designation of what parts in districts B and upon what
conditions a building could be therein erected more than
eighty while not more than one hundred feet high was to be
made by a commission, as provided for in the act of 1905, and
the commission duly carried out the provisions of the act in
that respect. The sole reason for refusing the permit was on
ings may so be erected, and the conditions under which buildings may

be erected to said height, except that such order may provide for the
erection of buildings as aforesaid to a height not exceeding one hundred
and twenty-five feet in that portion of said district B which lies within
fifty feet from the boundary line separating said district B from the
district designated by the commission on height of buildings in the city
of Boston as district A, in accordance with said chapter three hundred
and thirty-three, provided said boundary line divides the premises affected by such order from other adjoining premises, both owned by
the same person or persons, and within sixty days after its appointment
shall cause the same to be recorded in the registry of deeds for the
county of Suffolk. Any person who is aggrieved by such order may,
within sixty days after the recording thereof, appeal to the commission for a revision; and the commission may, previous to the first day
of January in the year nineteen hundred and six, revise such order,
and the revision shall be recorded in the registry of deeds for the county
of Suffolk and shall date back to the original date of recording. The
boundaries so established shall continue for a period of fifteen years
from the date of the recording of the order made by the commission
on height of buildings in the city of Boston under chapter three
hundred and thirty-three of the acts of the year nineteen hundred and
four. The members of the commission shall receive such compensation as the mayor shall determine.
SEC. 3. Within such parts of district B as may be designated by the
commission as aforesaid (which may, except as hereinafter provided,
include any parts of said district B affected by prior acts limiting the
height of buildings) buildings may be erected to the height fixed by
the commission as aforesaid, exceeding eighty feet but not exceeding

WELSH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

account of the proposed height of the building, being greater
than the law allowed.
The plaintiff in error contended that the defendants were
not justified in their refusal to grant the permit, because the
statutes upon which their refusal was based were unconstitutional and void, but he conceded that if they were valid the
defendants were justified in their refusal.
The court, while deciding that mandamus was a proper
remedy, held that the statutes and the reports of the commissions thereunder were constitutional.
Mr. Burton Edward Eames, with whom Mr. Charles H.
one hundred feet, or one hundred and twenty-five feet, as hereinbefore
provided, and subject to such conditions as may be fixed as aforesaid
by the commission; but within the following described territory, to
wit: Beginning at the corner of Beacon street and Hancock avenue,
thence continuing westerly on Beacon street to Joy street, thence continuing northerly on Joy street to Myrtle street, thence continuing
easterly on Myrtle street to Hancock street, thence continuing southerly
on Hancock street and Hancock avenue to the point of beginning, no
building shall be erected to a height greater than seventy feet, measured
on its principal front, and no building shall be erected on a parkway,
boulevard or public way on which a building line has been established
by the board of park commissioners or by the board of street commissioners, acting under any general or special statute, to a greater
height than that allowed by the order of said boards; and no building
upon land any owner of which has received and retained compensation
in damages for any limitation of height or who retains any claim for
such damages shall be erected to a height greater than that fixed by
the limitation for which such damages were received or claimed.
Sue. 4. No limitations of the height of buildings in the city of
Boston shall apply to churches, steeples, towers, domes, cupolas, belfries or statuary not used for purposes of habitation, nor to chimneys,
gas holders, coal or grain elevators, open balustrades, skylights, ventilators, flagstaffs, railings, weather vanes, soil pipes, steam exhausts,
signs, roof houses not exceeding twelve feet square and twelve feet
high, nor to other similar constructions such as are usually erected
above the roof line of buildings.
Suc. 5. This act shall take effect upon its passage. (Approved
May 8, 1905.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

Tyler and Mr. Owen D. Young were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:

The first point in the argument of the plaintiff in error is
that the purpose of these acts is not within the sphere of purposes for which the police power may lawfully be exercised.
The court will look to the real purpose of the statute. Watertown v. Mayo, 109 Massachusetts, 315, 319; Austin v. Murray,
16 Pick. 121, 126; State v. Redmon, 134 Wisconsin, 89, 107;
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78, 82; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Soon
Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 710; People v. CompagnieGenerale Transatlantique, 107 U. S. 59, 63; Henderson v. Mayor of
New York, 92 U. S. 259; Cal. Reduction Co. v. Sanitary Wks.,
199 U. S. 306; Health Dept. v. Rector, 145 N. Y. 32, 40; Matter
of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 110; FaristSteel Co. v. Bridgeport, 60
Connecticut, 278, 292; Priewe v. Wisconsin &c. Imp. Co., 103
Wisconsin, 537, 549.
In determining what is the real purpose of the statute, the
court will consider the history of the times and the circumstances leading up to its enactment. Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457.
The purpose may also be inferred from the terms of the act
itself. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Talbot v. Hudson,
16 Gray, 417, 420; Simpson v. Story, 145 Massachusetts, 497,
498; Pollock v. FarmersL. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429, 558 et seq.;
FaristSteel Co. v. Bridgeport, 60 Connecticut, 278.
The real purpose of these acts was esthetic.
This appears from the circumstances under which they were
passed. Contemporaneous statutes and contemporaneous
litigation, tend to the conclusion that they were aimed not at
dangers to the public health, safety, morals or well-being, but
that they were designed purely for purposes which may be
called msthetic, to preserve architectural symmetry and regular sky-lines.
The first act was passed in the legislative session of 19031904, very shortly after the decisions by the Supreme Judicial

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Court of Massachusetts and by this court sustaining the statutes which limited the height of buildings in the vicinity
of Copley Square and upon Beacon Hill as lawful exercises of
the power of eminent domain. Attorney-General v. Williams,
174 Massachusetts, 476 (October, 1899); Parker v. Commonwealth, 178 Massachusetts, 199 (March, 1901); Attorney-General
v. Williams, 178 Massachusetts, 330 (March, 1901); Williams
v. Parker,188 U. S. 491 (February, 1903).
The police power cannot properly be exercised for an
wsthetic purpose.
Although property may be taken by right of eminent domain
for vesthetic purposes,-Higginsonv. Nahant, 11 Allen, 530;
Attorney-General v. Williams, 174 Massachusetts, 476,-that
purpose is not sufficient to warrant the exercise of the police
power in such manner as to interfere with the use of property.
Commonwealth v. Boston Ad. Co., 188 Massachusetts, 348; St.
Louis v. Hill, 116 Missouri, 527; St. Louis v. Dorr, 145 Missouri,
466; People v. Green, 85 App. Div. (N. Y.) 400; Bostock v. Sams,
95 Maryland, 400; Posting Sign Co. v. Atlantic City, 71 N. J. L.
72; Passaicv. Patterson Bill Post. Co., 72 N. J. L. 285; Chicago
v. Gunning System, 214 Illinois, 628; Article on "Public iEsthetics," by Wilbur Larremore, in Harvard Law Review, November, 1906, p. 42.
The infringement upon rights of property involved in these
acts is unreasonable.
The principle of reasonableness is a principle of proportionateness. The courts appear to have adopted the principle
that the legislative acts under the police power, when affecting private rights, must have "some fair and reasonable relation of means to end which courts can see and admit the
force of," and that the infringement of rights must bear a reasonable relation to the public necessity, i. e., the measure must
be proportionate to the end in view. Ex parte Whitwell, 98
California, 73; State v. Speyer, 67 Vermont, 502; Commonwealth v. Tewksbury, 11 Met. 55, 57; Cooley on Constitutional
Limitations (7th ed.), 878; Miller v. Horton, 152 MassachuVOL. ccxiv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

setts, 540, 547; State v. Ashbrook, 154 Missouri, 375; People v.
Gillson, 109 N. Y. 389, 403; Health Department v. Rector, 145
N. Y. 32; Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 110; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 593; Railway Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465;
Sawyer v. Davis, 136 Massachusetts, 239; Rideout v. Knox,
148 Massachusetts, 368.
Any regulation which deprives any person of a profitable
use of his property constitutes a taking of property, and entitles him under the Constitution to compensation, unless the
invasion of rights is so slight as to permit the regulation to be
justified under the police power. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co.,
13 Wall. 166, 179; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445;
Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 399; Eaton v. Boston &c. R. R.,
51 N. H. 504; Bent v. Emery, 173 Massachusetts, 495; Grand
Rapids v. Jarvis, 30 Michigan, 308, 320, 321; Matter of Jacobs,
98 N. Y. 98, 105, 106; Edwards v. Bruorton, 184 Massachusetts,
529, 532, 533; Holmes, J., in Miller v. Horton, 152 Massachusetts, 540, 547.
The legislature of Massachusetts in the previous statutes
limiting the height of buildings about Copley Square in Boston
to the height of ninety feet, and on Beacon Hill, in the vicinity
of the State House, in Boston, to a height of seventy feet, recognized that such a regulation involved a taking of property,
Stats. 1898, ch. 452; Stats. 1899, ch. 457, and the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, in the decisions sustaining those
statutes as exercises of the power of eminent domain, likewise
recognized this fact. Attorney-General v. Williams, 174 Massachusetts, 476; Parker v. Commonwealth, 178 Massachusetts, 199; Attorney-General v. Williams, 178 Massachusetts,
330.
Even if the statutes were enacted for some object properly
within the scope of the police power, they involve an invasion
of private rights which is entirely disproportionate to any of
the objects which the legislature might properly have had in
view.

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The only objects, aside from the wsthetic, which it is at all
conceivable might have been in view of the legislature, are
the public health or safety, and no public necessity existed for
either of those objects sufficient to justify the measures.
The experience of other cities with buildings much higher
than anyone has yet desired to build in Boston, and much
higher than the limits fixed by these statutes, goes very
strongly to show that the danger of injury to health and the
danger from fire where tall buildings are properly constructed
are very slight.
Even if the object or purpose of these acts was within the
legitimate sphere of purposes permissible to the police power,
yet the classification adopted has no proper relation to either
of the possible ostensible objects, but is arbitrary and unreasonable. The constitutional provision for equal protection
of the laws means that all persons are to be treated alike. It
contemplates the right of the legislature to make reasonable
classifications, and the protection given by the law is considered equal if all persons within the classes thus established
are treated alike under like circumstances and conditions.
Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Magoun v. Illinois Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293; Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31;
Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71.
The classification adopted must be a reasonable one, with
reference to the purpose for which the statute is enacted; it
cannot be arbitrary. Gulf &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
159, 165; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540,
560; Atchison &c. R. R. v. Mathews, 174 U. S. 96, 104; Heath &
Milligan v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338.
So far as it may be desirable to do so, the court will take
judicial notice of facts of common knowledge, of the location
of the lines drawn by the commission, of the situation of
various streets, and of the character of the various districtsand localities of the city. Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 321; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 23; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, 421;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

214 U. S.

Siegbert v. Stiles, 39 Wisconsin, 533; The Montello, 11 Wall.
411; Gardner v. Eberhart, 82 Illinois, 316; Prince v. Crocker,
166 Massachusetts, 347.
The situtation and character of the various districts and
localities of the City of Boston being matters of common
knowledge, of which the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts would and did take notice, this court is authorized
to do likewise as, upon writ of error, it takes judicial notice of
all matters which were matters of law in the state court. By
analogy, therefore, this court should notice judicially all matters not required to be proved as facts in the state court, including matters of judicial notice. Matters of judicial notice
are matters of law.
The classification attempted in these statutes is arbitrary
and is not considered with a purpose to safeguard either the
public health or the public safety.
They are special laws, applying only to Boston, and while
a reasonable classification of cities may be made, it must be
based upon some real difference with reference to the purposes of the act. Tenement House Department v. Moeschen,
179 N. Y. 325; Watertown v. Mayo, 109 Massachusetts, 315;
State v. Hammer, 42 N. J. Law, 435, 440; Bessette v. People,
193 Illinois 334.
The classification attempted within the City of Boston is
not based upon reasonable grounds. Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, 368; Newton v. Belger, 143 Massachusetts,
598.
The statute gives exceptional rights to property holders in
district B whose property is situated within fifty feet of
the division line established, provided they also own land on
the other side of the division line.
It is provided that the height of buildings in district B
above eighty feet shall depend upon the width of the building
upon the street.
The statutes create exceptions in favor of certain occupations. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Thomas M. Babson for defendant in error:
The first question is whether an act limiting the height of
buildings is constitutional at all. The statute was enacted,
according to the decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of the
State, in behalf of the public health and safety, and the Supreme Court of the United States will not strike it down as an
unconstitutional interference with private property unless it
can plainly see that it has no real and substantial relation to
those objects and is a mere arbitrary attack upon the owners
of land. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Bartemeyer v.
Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113; Beer Co.
v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.25; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623; Powell v. Pennsylvania,
127 U. S.678; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S.133; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S.366; Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S.361; Reduction
Co. v. Reduction Works, 199 U. S.306; Bacon v. Walker, 204
U. S.311; Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
349.
The right of the State to regulate the construction of buildings has been recognized and exercised ever since the population of our cities became dense enough to make regulation
desirable and necessary for the protection of the inhabitants
from fire and disease. Ex parte Fiske, 72 California, 125;
Baumgartner v. Hasty, 100 Indiana, 575; Mt. Vernon First
National Bank v. Sarlls, 129 Indiana, 201; Wadleigh v. Gilman, 12 Maine, 403; Easton v. Covey, 74 Maryland, 262; Watertown v. Mayo, 109 Massachusetts, 315; Salem v. Maynes, 123
Massachusetts, 372; Brady v. Northwestern Insurance Co., 11
Michigan, 425; New York Fire Department v. Gilmour, 149
N. Y. 453; Rochester v. West, 164 N. Y. 510; Republica v. Duquet, 2 Yeates (Pa.), 493; Douglass v. Commonwealth, 2 Rawle
(Pa.), 262; Klinger v. Bickel, 117 Pa. St. 326; City Council v.
Elford, 1 McMullan (S. C.), 234; Knoxville v. Bird, 12 Lea
(Tenn.), 121; Baxter v. Seattle, 3 Washington, 352; Charlestown v. Reed, 27 W. Va. 681.
Until the introduction within recent years of steel frame

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

214 U. S.

construction, very tall buildings were not practicable, and it
is only lately that there has been any need of legislation restricting the height of buildings, for the natural difficulties
were formerly sufficient protection to the public.
In determining whether a state statute is aimed and adapted
to promote the public welfare, this court will hesitate to overturn a decision of the highest court of the State. The validity
of the statute may depend on certain facts, general, notorious
and acknowledged within the State, and with which the state
courts may be assumed to be exceptionally familiar. They
understand the situation which led to the demand for the enactment of the statute, and they appreciate the disastrous
results which in all probability would flow from a denial of its
validity. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Strickley v. Highland
Boy Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
What is a reasonable regulation in one city might be unreasonable in another. The Massachusetts legislature has
deemed this restriction wise, and its highest court has called
it reasonable; their decision should carry great weight.
Plaintiffs in error are not entitled to compensation because
there was no taking of this property. This court has never
accepted the fanciful doctrine that whatever decreases the
value of land is the taking, pro tanto, of the owner's property
and so unconstitutional unless he is paid for the damage, but
has steadfastly adhered to the older and sounder rule that
land is not taken unless it is physically entered upon or the
owner substantially deprived of the beneficial use. Smith v.
Washington, 20 How. 135; Transportation Company v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635; Osborne v. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co., 147
U. S. 248; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 275; Meyer v.
Richmond, 172 U. S. 95; Sharp v. United States, 191 U. S. 341;
Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217.
Regulations and restrictions upon the use of real property
have been imposed which limit its use and impair its value
more severely than those in the case at bar without giving
rise to any constitutional obligation to compensate the owner.

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Slaughter-HouseCases, 16 Wall. 36; Beer Co. v. Massachusetts,
97 U. S. 25; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Barbier
v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361.
There is no requirement in the Fourteenth Amendment or
elsewhere in the Constitution that the laws of a State be uniform in their application throughout the State. Missouri v.
Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Budd v.
New York, 143 U. S. 517, 548; Gardner v. Michigan, 199 U. S.
325.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The ground of objection of plaintiff in error to this legislation is that the statutes unduly and unreasonably infringe
upon his constitutional rights, (a) As to taking of property
without compensation; (b) As to denial of equal protection
of the laws.
Plaintiff in error refers to the existence of a general law in
Massachusetts applicable to every city therein, limiting the
height of all buildings to one hundred and twenty-five feet
above the grade of the street (acts of 1891, ch. 355), and states
that he does not attack the validity of that act in any respect,
but concedes that it is constitutional and valid. See also on
same subject acts of 1892, ch. 419, ยง 25, making such limitation as to the City of Boston. His objection is directed to the
particular statutes, because they provide for a much lower
limit in certain parts of the City of Boston, to be designated by
a commission, and because a general restriction of height as
low as eighty or one hundred feet over any substantial portion
of the city is, as he contends, an unreasonable infringement
upon his rights of property; also that the application of those
limits to districts B, which comprise the greater part of the
City of Boston, leaving the general one hundred and twentyfive feet limit in force in those portions of the city, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

the commission should designate (being the commercial districts), is an unreasonable and arbitrary denial of equal rights
to the plaintiff in error and others in like situation.
Stating his objections more in detail, the plaintiff in error
contends that the purposes of the acts are not such as justify
the exercise of what is termed the police power, because, in
fact, their real purpose was of an tsthetic nature, designed
purely to preserve architectural symmetry and regular skylines, and that such power cannot be exercised for such a purpose. It is further objected that the infringement upon property rights by these acts is unreasonable and disproportioned
to any public necessity, and also that the distinction between
one hundred and twenty-five feet for the height of buildings
in the commercial districts described in the acts, and eighty to
one hundred feet in certain other or so-called residential districts, is wholly unjustifiable and arbitrary, having no wellfounded reason for such distinction, and is without the least
reference to the public safety, as from fire, and inefficient as
means to any appropriate end to be attained by such laws.
In relation to these objections the counsel for the plaintiff
in error, in presenting his case at bar, made a very clear and
able argument.
Under the concession of counsel, that the law limiting the
height of buildings to one hundred and twenty-five feet is
valid, we have to deal only with the question of the validity of
the provisions stated in these statutes and in the conditions
provided for by the commissions, limiting the height in districts B between eighty and one hundred feet.
We do not understand that the plaintiff in error makes the
objection of illegality arising from an alleged delegation of
legislative power to the commissions provided for by the statutes. At all events, it does not raise a Federal question. The
state court holds that kind of legislation to be valid under the
state constitution and this court will follow its determination
upon that question.
We come, then, to an examination of the question whether

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

these statutes with reference to limitations on height between
eighty and one hundred feet and in no case greater than one
hundred feet are valid. There is here a discrimination or classification between sections of the city, one of which, the business or commercial part, has a limitation of one hundred and
twenty-five feet, and the other, used for residential purposes,
has a permitted height of buildings from eighty to one hundred
feet.
The statutes have been passed under the exercise of socalled police power, and they must have some fair tendency
to accomplish, or aid in the accomplishment of some purpose,
for which the legislature may use the power. If the statutes
are not of that kind, then their passage cannot be justified
under that power. These principles have been so frequently
decided as not to require the citation of many authorities. If
the means employed, pursuant to the statute, have no real,
substantial relation to a public object which government can
accomplish; if the statutes are arbitrary and unreasonable
and beyond the necessities of the case; the courts will declare
their invalidity. The following are a few of the many cases
upon this subject: Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 320; Jacobson v. Massachu-

setts, 197 U. S. 11, 28; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 57;
Chicago Railway Company v. Drainage Commissioners, 200

U. S. 561, 593.
In passing upon questions of this character as to the validity
and reasonableness of a discrimination or classification in relation to limitations as to height of buildings in a large city,
the matter of locality assumes an important aspect. The particular circumstances prevailing at the place or in the State
where the law is to become operative; whether the statute is
really adapted, regard being had to all the different and material facts, to bring about the results desired from its passage;
whether it is well calculated to promote the general and public
welfare, are all matters which the state court is familiar with,
but a like familiarity cannot be ascribed to this court, assum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

214 U. S.

ing judicial notice may be taken of what is or ought to be
generally known. For such reason this court, in cases of this
kind, feels the greatest reluctance in interfering with the wellconsidered judgments of the courts of a State whose people are
to be affected by the operation of the law. The highest court
of the State in which statutes of the kind under consideration
are passed is more familiar with the particular causes which
led to their passage (although they may be of a public nature)
and with the general situation surrounding the subject-matter
of the legislation than this court can possibly be. We do not,
of course, intend to say that under such circumstances the
judgment of the state court upon the question will be regarded
as conclusive, but simply that it is entitled to the very greatest
respect, and will only be interfered with, in cases of this kind,
where the decision is, in our judgment, plainly wrong. In this
case the Supreme Judicial Court of the State holds the legislation valid, and that there is a fair reason for the discrimination between the height of buildings in the residential as compared with the commercial districts. That court has also held
that regulations in regard to the height of buildings, and in
regard to their mode of construction in cities, made by legislative enactments for the safety, comfort or convenience of
the people and for the benefit of property owners generally,
are valid. Attorney-General v. Williams, 174 Massachusetts,
476. We concur in that view, assuming, of course, that the
height and conditions provided for can be plainly seen to be
not unreasonable or inappropriate.
In relation to the discrimination or classification made between the commercial and the residential portion of the city,
the state court holds in this case that there is reasonable
ground therefor, in the very great value of the land and the
demand for space in those parts of Boston where a greater
number of buildings are used for the purposes of business or
commercially than where the buildings are situated in the
residential portion of the city, and where no such reasons exist
for high buildings. While so deciding the court cited, with

WELCH v. SWASEY.
214 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

approval, Commonwealth v. Boston Advertising Company, 188
Massachusetts, 348, which holds that the police power cannot
be exercised for a merely msthetic purpose. The court distinguishes between the two cases and sustains the present statutes. As to the condition adopted by the commission for permitting the erection, in either of the districts B, that is, the
residential portion, of buildings of over eighty feet, but never
more than one hundred, that the width on each and every public street on which the building stands shall be at least one-half
its height, the court refuses to hold that such condition was
entirely for wsthetic reasons. The Chief Justice said: "We
conceive that the safety of adjoining buildings, in view of the
risk, of the falling of walls after a fire, may have entered into
the purpose of the commissioners. We are of opinion that the
statutes and orders of the commissioners are constitutional."
We are not prepared to hold that this limitation of eighty
to one hundred feet, while in fact a discrimination or classification, is so unreasonable that it deprives the owner of the
property of its profitable use without justification, and that
he is therefore entitled under the Constitution to compensation
for such invasion of his rights. The discrimination thus made
is, as we think, reasonable, and is justified by the police power.
It might well be supposed that taller buildings in the commercial section of the city might be less dangerous in case of
fire than in the residential portion. This court is not familiar
with the actual facts, but it may be that in this limited commercial area the high buildings are generally of fireproof construction; that the fire engines are more numerous and much
closer together than in the residential portion, and that an
unlimited supply of salt water can be more readily introduced
from the harbor into the pipes, and that few women or children
are found there in the daytime and very few people sleep there
at night. And there may in the residential part be more
wooden buildings, the fire apparatus may be more widely
scattered and so situated that it would be more difficult to
obtain the necessary amount of water, as the residence quar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

214 U. S.

ters are more remote from the water front, and that many
women and children spend the day in that section, and the
opinion is not strained that an undiscovered fire at night might
cause great loss of life in a very high apartment house in that
district. These are matters which it must be presumed were
known by the legislature, and whether or not such were the
facts was a question, among others, for the legislature to
determine. They are asserted as facts in the brief of the
counsel for the City of Boston. If they are, it would seem
that ample justification is therein found for the passage of
the statutes, and that the plaintiff in error is not entitled to
compensation for the reasonable interference with his property rights by the statutes. That in addition to these sufficient facts, considerations of an Tsthetic nature also entered
into the reasons for their passage, would not invalidate them.
Under these circumstances there is no unreasonable interference with the rights of property of the plaintiff in error, nor
do the statutes deprive him of the equal protection of the
laws. The reasons contained in the opinion of the state
court are in our view sufficient to justify their enactment.
The judgment is therefore
Affirmed.

GRAY v. NOHOLOA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

HAWAII.

No. 174.

Submitted April 20, 1909.-Decided May 17, 1909.

Which is the correct English translation of a will written in the Hawaiian language is a pure question of fact, and in this case this
court follows its usual course in regard to the findings of fact of both
the lower courts and adopts the translation which both found to be
correct.
The will of a childless testatrix, who lived with her husband in the

