118

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

HICKS, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.
POE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
IFOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued October 12, 13, 1925.-Decided November 16, 192k.

1. A re-insurance company made a participation contract with a
company engaged in the business of surety, fidelity and burglary
insurance, whereby the former assumed one-third of the liability on
risks written by the latter during a period of five years, and upon
annual accountings was to receive one-third of any profits, or pay
one-third of any losses, leaving, however, the managment of the
business to the other without restriction. The second company
being unsuccessful, its receivers, after the five year period, in winding up its business cancelled its outstanding risks by returning unearned premiums to policy-holders. Held that this was not a
breach of the contract and did not relieve the re-insurer of its
liability to pay the insured company one-third of the losses occurring
after the five year period on business written within it. P. 119.
2. The rule that the liability of a re-insurer is not affected by the
insolvency of the re-insured company, or the inability of the latter
to fulfill its own contracts with the original insured, is applicable to
a participation contract differing from customary re-insurance in
that the re-insurer, instead of receiving premiums and paying its
share of the losses, is to participate IN profits and losses. P. 121.
293 Fed. 766, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (276 Fed.
949; 293 Id. 764), in favor of the receivers of a Maryland

insurance company in a suit brought by them under the

Trading with the Enemy Act to reach impounded funds
belonging to a foreign insurance company, and for an accounting, etc.
Messrs. Daniel 0. Hastings and Hartwell Cabell, for

appellant.

HICKS v. POE.
118

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Stuart S. Janney and J. Kemp Bartlett, with
whom Mr. Joseph C. France was on the. brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit for an accounting was begun in the federal
district court for Maryland on June 12, 1920, by the receivers of the United Surety Company, a corporation of
that State, against the Munich Re-Insurance Company,
a Bavarian corporation. The controversy arose out of a
written agreement entered into by the companies in 1906.
There had been active litigation in the Maryland courts
where much became res judicata. See Munich Re-Insurance Co. v. United Surety Co., 113 Md. 200; 121 Md. 479;
Poe v. Munich Re-Insurance Co., 126 Md. 520, This isuit
was then begun under ยง 9 of the Trading with the Enemy
Act, October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, 419 as amended,
because the receivers sought to reach funds of the Munich
Company, in the possession of the Alien Property Custodian. The District Court after careful opinions entered a
decree for the receivers for $189,517.16 with interest. 276
Fed. 949; 293 Fed. 764. The Court of Appeals affirmed
it without opinion. 293 Fed. 766. The appeal to this
court, allowed January 7, 1924, was taken as of right
under ยง 241 of the Judicial Code. We find no reversible
preerror. Two matters only require mention. Neither
sents a question federal in its nature.
The United engaged in the business known as surety,
fidelity and burglary insurance. The Munich, by what 4s
called a. participation contract, agreed with it to assume
one-third of the liability on every such risk written during a period five years. The m~nagement of the business was to be left to the United without restriction.
Upon an annual accounting the Munikh was to receive
one-third of any profits or pay one-third of any losses. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

decree entered against the Munich in the state court for
losses incurred during the five-year period had been satisfied. This suit is for losses incurred after its expiration
on insurance of the United then still outstanding. The
company had been unsuccessful. The state court after
the expiration of the five-year period appointed receivers
who proceeded to wind up the business. They sought in
vain to re-insure all outstanding risks. Then, with the
approval of the court, they secured, so far as possible, cancellation of the outstanding insurance by returning unearned premiums. The losses on account of which this
suit was brought were on risks entered into during the
existence of the participation contract and remaining unexpired upon its termination and which the receivers did
not succeed in getting cancelled. The Munich argues that
by the course pursued the assets were wasted through re
turning the unearned premiums dni good risks, and that
thus the poor risks were left unprotected; insists that it
was entitled to have all the insurance carried to its expiry;
and contends that the receivers, by securing the cancellation of much of it for the purpose of winding up the business, committed a breach of the participation contract
which released it from further liability. The contention is
unfounded. The participation contract did not restrict
the discretion to be exercised by the United, and its receivers, in the conduct of the business or in winding it up
after the termination of the agreement. The case of
Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240 U. S.
581, upon which appellants rely, is without application.
. There is a further contention that, because the United
has not paid to its creditors any part of the amounts due
on its contracts, and is likely to pay only twenty-five cents
on the dollar, the Munich is under no liability to pay to
it anything on account of losses inchrred thereunder or, in
any event, more than a pro rata share of the payments
actually made by the United. The Munich became a re-

FRESHMAN v. ATKINS.
118

Counsel for Parties.

insurer. The liability of a re-insurer is not affected by
the insolvency of the re-insured company or the inability
of the latter to fulfill its own contracts with the original
insured. Allemania Fire Insurance Co. v. Firemen's Insurance Co., 209 U. S. 326. The participation contract
differs from customary re-insurance in this: The Munich
instead of receiving premiums and paying its share of
losses was to participate in profits and losses. The difference is not one which affected the scope or character of
the Munich's obligation.
Affirmed.
FRESHMAN v. ATKINS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued October 14, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The pendency of a voluntary petition in bankruptcy precludes consideration of a second voluntary petition in respect of the same
debts. P. 122.
2. 'The District Court, on application for discharge in a voluntary
proceeding in bankruptcy, may take judicial notice of the pendeficy,
in its own records, of an earlier like application; and of its own
motion, because of such pendency, may refuse the later application,
in so far as the same debts are concerned. P. 123.
294 Fed. 867, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a jVdgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming an order of the District Court, which
denied in part an application for a discharge in bankruptcy. 290 Fed. 609.
Mr. Paul Carrington,with whom Messrs. Joseph Manson McCormick and Francis Marion Etheridge were on
the briefs, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.

