FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
328

Syllabus.

fendant State denies that such a withdrawal is an interference with interstate commerce forbidden by the Constitution. This is essentially a judicial question. It concededly is so in suits between private parties, and of
course its character is not different in a suit between
States.
"What is sought is not an abstract ruling on that question, but an injunction against such a withdrawal presently threatened and likely to be productive of great
injury. The purpose to withdraw is shown in the enactment of the defendant State before set forth and is about
to be carried into effect by her officers acting in her name
and at her command."
This bill falls far short of showing a situation like that
presented there, and what it does show falls on the other
side of the jurisdictional line.
Our conclusion is that the bill cannot be entertained.
Bill dismissed.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GUTHRIE CENTER
v. ANDERSON, COUNTY AUDITOR, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 26.

Argued January 27, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. In a case from a state court the question whether the federal
right was sufficiently alleged in the pleading must be determined
by this Court for itself. P. 346.

2. When a state court has treated a case as cognizable in equity,
this Court can not decline to review the federal questions involved
upon the ground that it was not so. Id.
3. Decree held reviewable by writ of error, and certiorari denied. Id.
4. The restriction imposed by Rev. Stats. § 5219, upon state taxa-

tion of national bank shares, viz., that the taxation "shall not be
at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State," was violated where the
national and state bank stock within a county, not exceeding
$316,852, was taxed at the rate of 143.5 mills per dollar, while

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

$5,000,000 of other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals,
consisting of notes, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness,
such as normally enter into the business of banking, and which
was used in competition with the complaining national bank, was
taxed in the county at only 5 mills on the dollar. P. 347.
5. The Act of March 4, 1923, in reenacting the above provision of
Rev. Stats. § 5219 with additions, did no more than put into express words that which, according to repeated decisions of this
Court, was implied in the original section. P. 349.
6. The investment of individual capital in farm mortgages is not inconsistent with its being used in competition with national banks,
since the prohibition against loans on real estate by national banks
was partly withdrawn by the Acts of Dec. 22, 1913, and Sept. 7,
1916. P. 352.
7. Where a bill by a national bank to restrain a state tax on its
shares alleged facts showing a discrimination, violative of Rev. Stats.
§ 5219, in taxing other capital consisting of notes, mortgages, etc.,
at a lower rate, it was error to assume, on demurrer, as a matter
of judicial notice, that such capital was, in practice, loaned by the
plaintiff and other banks, acting as agents for their customers, and
was therefore non-competing. P. 354.
196 Iowa J187, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa,
affirming a judgment dismissing the bill, on demurrer, in
a suit brought by a national bank on behalf of its shareholders, to restrain collection of a discriminating tax on
their shares.
Mr. J. G. Gamble, with whom Messrs. John P. Foster
and Ralph L. Read were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Ben J. Gibson, Attorney General of Iowa, and
Earl W. Vincent, with whom Mr. Maxwell A. O'Brien,
Assistant Attorney General of Iowa, was on the briefs, for
defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVAwTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit by a national bank on behalf of its shareholders to restrain the collection of a tax levied against

FIRST*NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

the latter on their shares. The bank is located at Guthrie
Center in Guthrie County, Iowa. The defendants, who
are county officers charged with the duty of collecting
taxes, interposed a general demurrer to the petition. The
demurrer was sustained, judgment against the plaintiff
was entered, and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 196 Iowa 587.
The petition assails the tax on several distinct grounds,
only one of which is relied on here. The allegations displaying -this ground are:
"The said tax as entered upon the tax list by the
County Auditor is void because it is a discrimination between bank stock and moneyed capital invested in competition therewith, and in violation of Sec. 5219, Revised
Statutes of the United States. Plaintiff avers that in the
town of Guthrie Center, Iowa, the total levy for. local,
county and state tax purposes was one hundred fortythree and five-tenths mills on the dollar for the year 1920,
and said tax on plaintiff and its shareholders was estimated and charged at said rate. . . . That under
the laws of Iowa .a levy of only five mills on the dollar is
imposed upon notes, mortgages and other evidences of
debt, and investments of individuals in securities, which
represent money at interest, and other evidence of indebtedness such as normally enter into the business of
banking, and the tax for the year 1920 upon moneyed
capital of individual citizens of Guthrie County, Iowa,
and of the Town of Guthrie Center, engaged in competition with plaintiff, was so levied and computed. That
the amount of notes, mortgages and other evidences of
money loaned and put out at interest by individual citizens in the county of Guthrie, Iowa, was a very large
sum, which amount plaintiff is unable to state; but upon
information and belief plaintiff charges said amount to be
more than five millions of dollars, which were included
in the 1920 assessment, and upon which the tax levy wq.i

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

but five mills on the dollar; while the total of all bank
stock, including state and national in Guthrie County,
Iowa, does not exceed the sum of $316,852.00. That approximately five millions of dollars of moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens consisting chiefly of
notes, mortgages and money loaned at interest was taxed
for the year 1920 in Guthrie County, Iowa, under the
laws of Iowa, at five mills on the dollar."
"That said assessment is erroneous in that it is contrary to, the provisions of Section 5219 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States; because by said assessmerit the shares of stock of the plaintiff are subjected to
a greater assessment and tax than is imposed upon money
capital in the hands of individual citizens in said State
used and utilized in the same business.",
The Supreme Court of the State, in the fore part of
its opinion, summarizes the several grounds on which the
bank urged it to hold the tax invalid. The ground relied
on here, as there summarized, is " that the [state] statute
providing for a tax of five mills on the dollar of moneyed
capital loaned and invested in competition with national
banks discriminates against the same and is void under
Section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States." The record also shows that in that court the
defendants recognized that the bank was contending "its
shares of stock are taxed at a greater rate under the Iowa
law than is moneyed capital" contrary to the restrictions
of the federal statute, and that they made the counter
contention that "the law under which it is sought to hold
appellant bank liable for the 1920 taxes does not violate Sec. 5219 of the U. S. Revised Statutes." True, the
Supreme Court in the latter part of its opinion says, "It
is not claimed that section 1310 of the statute [the state
law] is invalid, or that ample provision, is not made
thereby for the assessment of other moneyed capital in
the hands of individuals or other owners at the same rate

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

as national and state banks are taxed, when invested in
competition therewith." At first this seems a contradiction of the court's earlier statement. But these statements are explained and the seeming conflict dispelled by
what otherwise appears in the record, which is, that the
bank was making the alternative contentions that the
state law, if construed and applied according to its words,
does not permit any discrimination against national bank
shares and is in accord with the federal statute, but, if
construed and applied as sustaining what is alleged in
the petition, it permits the discrimination which the federal statute forbids and is in that respect invalid.
The case is here on writ of error, the substance of the
assignment of errors being that the Supreme Court of the
State, although holding that the state law permits the
discrimination against national bank shares alleged in the
petition, denied the bank's contention that, when so construed and applied, that law is in conflict with the federal
statute.
A petition for review on writ of certiorari also was presented and its consideration was postponed to the hearing
on the writ of error.
By a motion to dismiss, the jurisdiction of this Court
on the writ or error is challenged on the grounds first,
that the state court rested its judgment on the construction and sufficiency of the allegations of the petition and
its decision of that question is conclusive here; and, secondly, that the judgment is right independently of any
ruling on the asserted federal question, in that the suit is
not one in which relief may be had in equity, because (a)
an adequate remedy at law may be had under the local
law by paying the tax and suing to recover the money,
(b) the bank has not exercised the local statutory right
of appealing from the action of the county officers in
imposing the tax, and, (c) there has been no payment
or tender of so much of the tax as would be due if the
five-mills levy were applied to the shares.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Plainly, the first ground cannot be maintained.
Whether a pleading sets up a sufficient right of action or
defense, grounded on the Constitution or a law of the
United States, is necessarily a question of federal law;
and where a case coming from a state court presents that
question, this Court must determine for itself the sufficiency of the allegations displaying the right or defense,
and is not concluded by the view taken of them by the
state court. Mitchell v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, 645; Boyd
v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, 180; Covington and Lexington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 595; Carter
v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447. The principle is general,
and is a necessary element of this Court's power to review
judgments of state courts in cases involving the application and enforcement of federal laws. Davis v. Wechsler,
263 U. S. 22, 24.
The second ground is not better. The Supreme Court
of the State treated the case as cognizable in equity and
perceived no obstacle to a consideration of the merits as
displayed in the petition. In this that court was proceeding within limits where the state laws and practice
were controlling, and its action is not open to revision
here. In cases coming from state courts this Court's
power and concern are specially directed to rulings made
or refused on federal questions. Murdock v. Memphis,
20 Wall. 590, 638; Bi-Metallic Investment Co. v. State
Board of Equalization, 239 U. S. 441, 444.
With the objections just considered out of the way, it
suffices to, say this Court's jurisdiction on the writ of
error has full support in Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282. The motion to dismiss is accordingly overruled, and the petition for certiorari is
denied.
The state court holds that the state law authorizes the
taxation shown in the petition; and, as this ruling on a
purely state question must be accepted here, we turn to

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

the question, chiefly pressed on our attention, whether the
state law, so construed and applied, conflicts with the
federal statute. In approaching its solution there is need
for having in mind the occasion for the federal statute and
the purpose and words of the restriction therein which is
said to have been violated here.
National banks are not merely private moneyed institutions but agencies of the United States created under its
laws to promote its fiscal policies; and hence the banks,
their property and their shares cannot be taxed under
state authority except as Congress consents and then only
in conformity with the restrictions attached to its consent.
Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103,
106, and cases cited. The early legislation respecting
these banks contained a restricted consent, which afterwards became § 5219 of the Revised Statutes. By it
Congress assented to the taxation of the shares to their
owners under the laws of the State where the bank was
located, subject to the restriction that "the taxation shall
not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such State," and further assented to the taxation of the
real property of the bank for state, county, and municipal
purposes "to the same extent, according to its value, as
other real property is taxed." This consent thus restricted was in force when the tax here assailed was levied.
The restiction 'on the taxation of the shares often has
been considered by this Court. The earlier decisions have
been reviewed ,from time to time in later cases, and all,
taken collectively, may be summarized as showing, so far
as is material here
1. The purpose of the restriction is to render it impossible for any State, in taxing the shares, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition with national
banks, by favoring shareholders in state banks or individuals interested in private banking or engaged in opera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

tions and investments normally common to the business
of banking. Mercantile National Bank v. New York,
121 U. S. 138, 155; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather, supra, 116.
2. The term "other moneyed capital" in the restriction is not intended to include all moneyed capital not
invested in national bank shares, but only that which is
employed in such way as to bring it into substantial competition with the business of national banks. Mercantile
National Bank v. New York, supra, 157; Aberdeen Bank
v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440, 461.
3. Moneyed capital is brought into such competition
where it is invested in shares of state banks or in private
banking; and also where it is employed, substantially as
in the loan and investment features of banking, in making investments, by way of loan, discount or otherwise,
in notes, bonds or other securities with a view to sale or
repayment and reinvestment. Mercantile National Bank
v. New York, supra, 155-157; Palmer v. McMahon, 133
U. S. 660, 667-668; Talbot v. Silver Bow County, 139
U. S. 438, 447.
4. The restriction is not intended to exact mathematical equality in the taxing of national bank shares and such
other moneyed capital, nor to do more than require such
practical equality as is reasonably attainable in view of
the differing situations of such properties. But every
clear discrimination against national bank shares and
in favor of a relatively material part of other moneyed
capital employed in substantial competition with national banks is a violation of both the letter and spirit
of the restriction. People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539; Boyer
v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689, 701; National Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205, 216.
In the briefs there is some discussion as to whether
our decision in Merchants' National Bank v. Richmond,
256 U. S. 635, attributed to the term " other moneyed

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

capital" a wider meaning than was recognized before.
But nothing was said in the opinion indicating that an
enlargement was intended. On the contrary, it distinctly
accepted the meaning adopted in prior decisions. The
case was unusual in one respect. The defendants took the
position that the congressional restriction was directed
only against discrimination in favor of state banking associations, and they persisted in it to the extent of making no effort at. the trial to controvert the evidence produced by the plainiff to show that a relatively large
amount of moneyed capital, taxed at a lower rate than
the bank's shares, was employed in substantial competition with the business of the bank. When that position
proved untenable by reason of settled rulings to the contrary, the case was left where the outcome turned on the
evidence of competition produced by the plaintiff. That
evidence was somewhat meager, but in the absence of
any counter evidence was held sufficient, and the tax
was accordingly pronounced invalid. If the outcome was
open to criticism, it was not because any enlarged meaning was attributed to the term " other moneyed capital,"
but because the facts bearing on the question of competition were not sufficiently brought out at the trial and
shown in the record.
By the Act of March 4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499,
passed after the levy of the tax in question, § 5219 of the
Revised Statutes was amended by 6xtending the consent of Congress to any one of three forms of taxation.
That of taxing the shares to their owners was retained as
one of the three, and the prior restriction was reenacted
with added words here shown in italics, making it read
as follows:
" In the case of a tax on said shares the tax imposed
shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other
moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such State coming into competition with the business of

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

national banks: Provided, That bonds, notes, or other
evidences of indebtedness in the hands of individual citizens not employed or engaged in the banking or investment business and representing merely personal investments not made in competition with such business, shall
not be deemed moneyed capital within the meaning of
this section."
The defendants say that this re~nactlnent was intended as a legislative interpretation of the prior restriction, and that the proceedings resulting in its adoption so
show. But, assuming that this is true, the situation is
not changed; for the regnactment did no more than to
put into express words that which, according to repeated
decisions of this Court, was implied before. In Mercantile National Bank v. New York, supra, where the terms
and purpose of the restriction were much. considered, it
was distinctly held that the words "other moneyed capital" must be taken as impliedly limited to capital employed in substantial competition with the business of
national banks. In later cases that definition was accepted and given effect as if written into the restriction.
It, of course, would exclude bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness when held merely as personal investments by individual citizens not engaged in the banking or investment business, for capital represented by this
clsss of investments is not employed in substantial competition with the business of national banks. 'Thus in
legal contemplation and practical effect the restriction
was the same before the reinactment as after. What bearing a different legislative interpretation might have on a
tax already levied, as here, need not be considered.
With this understanding of the congressional restriction, we come to consider whether the allegations of fact
in the petition, admitted by the demurrer, show that
the tax on the bank's shares, which the state court regards as authorized by the state law, was imposed con-

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

trary to that restriction. The allegations before quoted
are all that are material. They declare at the outset and
again later on that the shares were subjected to a greater
rate of taxation than was imposed on other moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals used and utilized in
competition with the bank. This declaration is so connected with the intervening allegations that it both colors
and explains them. Some of these are directly to the effect that the tax on the shares was computed at the rate
of one hundred and forty-three and five-tenths mills on
the dollar, while that on notes, mortgages and other
evidences of indebtedness, "such as normally enter into
the business of banking" and representing moneyed capital of individual citizens "engaged in competition" with
the bank, was computed at five mills on the dollar. Then
follows an allegation that the amount of notes, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness representing
moneyed capital of individual citizens of the county, and
taxed at five mills on the dollar, was approximately
$5,000,000, while the total bank stock, state and national,
in the county was not more than $316,852.
The defendants point out that the allegation last mentioned does not in itself say that the $5,000,000 of other
moneyed capital, or any substantial portion of it, was
employed in competition with the bank; and from this
they argue that the petition falls short of showing a discrimination in fax'or of a relatively substantial amount of
moneyed capital so employed. But that allegation is so
related to the others that, to be rightly understood, it
must be read with them. We think such a reading shows
that it is intended to refer to the notes, mortgages and
other evidences of indebtedness which the others describe
as representing moneyed capital of individual citizens engaged in competition with the bank, and that it means
that this competing capital, on which the five-mills tax

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

was imposed, approximated $5,000,000, while the bank
stock, which was subjected to the tax of one hundred and
forty-three and five-tenths mills, did not exceed $316,852.
Thus understood, the allegation is in accord with the
theory on which the others obviously proceed, and serves,
with them, to show a serious discrimination against the
bank's shares and in favor of a relatively substantial
amount of competing moneyed capital.
It may be that some of the allegations were.in such
general terms as to be subject to a motion for a more
specific statement, but such a motion was not made, and
the objection appears not to have been open on the general demurrer. Lamb v. McCormick, 116 Iowa 169, 174175; B., C. R. & M. R. Co. v. Stewart, 39 Iowa 267, 272;
Noyes v. Mason City, 53 Iowa 418, 419.
The Supreme Court of the State regarded the petition
as alleging "simply that notes and other evidences of
money loaned, payment of which is secured by mortgages
upon farm lands," were taxed at a lower rate than the
bank shares; and in that view of the allegations the court
observed that the tax on the shares was not imposed contrary to the congressional restriction, unless moneyed
capital loaned on farm mortgages was to be regarded as
loaned or invested in competition with national banks.
On this question the court said:
" Although it does not appear upon the face of the
petition, it is a matter of common knowledge that banks,
national as well as state, particularly in the rural communities of Iowa, are the instrumentalities through
which much the larger portion of farm loans is made;
that many banks, as such, or through others with which
they are interested, act as agents of insurance companies
and other financial institutions having large sums of
money to loan upon farm security; and that the money
of individuals is either loaned directly by the bank for the
accommodation of the owner, who is its customer, or

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
341

Opinion of the Court.

loans are made in advance by the bank, and later transferred to such other customers as have money to loan.
The money of individuals loaned in the community
thereby becomes a source of profit to the bank. It is also
well known that money borrowed upon farm security
finds its way at once, or ultimately, into the local banks,
and is drawn out in the regular course of the borrower's
business.
"The Supreme Court of the United States, so far as
we are advised, has never had occasion to pass upon
the question whether money thus loaned may be said
to be invested or loaned in competition with national
banks. Upon this question, the decision -of the Supreme
Court, when announced, will be final; but, until that time
arrives, we must adopt and follow our own interpretation
of its prior decisions and of the laws of Congress. Surely,
moneyed capital loaned and invested by banks, as the
agents of their customers, cannot be said to be loaned
in competition therewith. Competition means rivalry,
and the loaning of 1money by national and other banks
for individuals at a profit, or for the convenience of such
owners, is lacking in all the essentials of competition."
The allegations of the petition already have been
quoted at length. They say, "notes, mortgages, and
other evidences of money loaned at interest," and they
describe these securities as " such as normally enter into
the business of banking " and as representing moneyed
capital of individuals "engaged in competition with the
plaintiff." We find in them no specific mention of farm
mortgages, nor anything indicating that they refer only
to such mortgages. No doubt they are broad enough to
include farm mortgages; but this does not weaken the
allegation of competition, for while national banks were
formerly prohibited from making loans on real estate,
Rev. Stats., §§ 5136, 5137; Union National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621, 625; National Bank of Genessee v.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, the prohibition was partly withdrawn and much of that field was opened to such banks
by the Acts of December 22, 1913, c. 6, § 24, 38 Stat. 273,
and September 7, 1916, c. 461, 39 Stat. 754.
As the case now stands, we think no effect can be given
to what the state court assumes is the practice of banks
in rural portions of Iowa in making farm loans as agents
for their customers or others. If there be such a practice,'it is not a matter which may be noticed and given
effect without pleading or proof. If followed by some
banks, it may not be followed by others. The state court
does not speak of it as universal, but only as followed by
"many banks." Certainly the record gives no ground for
holding that the plaintiff follows it. In this situation the
allegation of competition stands unaffected by the assumed practice.
We conclude that the state law, when construed and
applied as authorizing the discrimination against the
bank's shares which is charged in the petition, is in that
regard in conflict with the restriction in the federal
statute.
Judgment reversed.

LIVE OAK WATER USERS' ASSOCIATION ET AL. V.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE AUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 73.

Argued October 22, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A rate.-fixing order made by a commission acting under a state
statute is, for jurisdictional purposes in applying Jud. Code § 237,
as amended Sept. 6, 1916, an act of the legislature. P. 356.
2. A judgment of a state supreme court sustaining such an order
held not reviewable here by writ of error, under Jud. Code § 237, as
amended Sept. 6, 1916, where the constitutionality of the order
itself was not definitely drawn in question before the state court

