OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

144

Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the statute (ยง 2306), ipso jure, vests a property right in
the donee which he may exercise or sell and transfer. A
property right, the ownership of which may be conveyed
to and vested in a purchaser, mifst be accorded the quality
of inheritability, which usually attaches as an incident
of ownership, in the absence of some provision of law to
the contrary; and we, therefore, hold that the soldier's
additional homestead right, if not exercised or transferred
by the doneq, passes to his estate as other property, subject only to the exercise of the rights given by ยง 2307 to
the widow and minor orphan children.
The question certified is answered
in the negative.

SWVILZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 38.

Argued October 13, 14, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

A. finding .by the Court of Claims that claimant's patents were not
infringed by the Government is a finding of fact and therefore not
reexaminable by this Court. P. 147.
59 Ct. Cls. 21, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims in an
action brought by the appellant to fecover compensation
for use and manufacture by the United States of certain
oil burners, alleged to infringe his patents.
APPEAL

Mr. HarryB. Stilz, pro se.
Mr. John W. Loveland, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Harry E. Knight, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.

STILZ v. UNITED STATES.
144
MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff brought this action, under the Act of Congress
approved July 1, 1918, c. 114, 40 Stat. 704, 705, to recover
compensation for the use and manufacture, by or for the
Navy Department, of certain oil burners alleged to infringe Patents 945873 and 1066161, granted him January
11, 1910, and July 1, 1913, respectively. The Court of
Claims filed findings of f ct and conclusion of law (59
Ct. Cls. 21), and adjudged that plaintiff was not entitled
to recover.
The substance of the findings in respect of the prior art,
the burners covered by plaintiff's patents, and the burners
manufactured and used by the United States and alleged
to be infringements, may be indicated briefly. Each of
these patents was for improvements in oil burners. In
order successfully to be used for fuel, oil must be atomized
,o permit its mixture with thQ proper amount of air for
6ombustion. In the prior art to which plaintiff's patents
relate, there were numerous structures disclosed by patents and publications referred to in the findings, including
two types of burners in use and known respectively as
mechanical atomizers and steam atomizers. In the former, the oil is atomized by means purely mechanical. It
is projected, under heavy pressure from the burner into
the furnace, in a whirling, cone-shaped film, which almost
immediately develops into fine spray. In the latter there
is a combination with the oil, while yet within the burner
proper, of a stream of steam, air, or other gaseous fluid
under pressure, for the purpose of aiding the atomization.
In both, air for combustion is admitted through a surrounding register and is more or less intimately intermixed with the oil spray.
. The burner covered by Patent 945873 provides for the
use of steam, air or other gaseous fluid under pressure to
aid in atomization of the oil. The oil, under heavy pres-

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

sure, is discharged tangentially into the annular space of
the nozzle between the outer casing and center plug, thus
giving the oil a rotary motion in the nozzle. The steam
or other fluid, under heavy pressure, is also discharged
tangentially into this space in the same direction as the
oil with which it rotates; and thus aids in atomizing the
oil, which issues from the orifice of the nozzle at a high
velocity through an air register and into the furnace in
a cone-shaped film and spray. Air for combustion is supplied through the register, and mixes with the oif spray in
it and in the furnace.
The burner covered by Patent 1066161 also provides for
the use of steam, air or other gaseous fluids under pressure
as an aid in the atomization of the oil. This device includes an annular space between inner and outer casings
of the nozzle. The oil and steam are not brought together
until after the oil, under heavy pressure, is forced through
a spiral and orifice into the front of this space in a rapidly
rotating cone-shaped film. The steam, air or other fluid
passes through a pipe under heavy pressure and is discharged tangentially into this space, rotating towards the
outer orifice in a whirling layer. The oil leaving the inner
orifice is struck by the rotating steam before it passes
through the outer orifice. Air for combustion is supplied
through a circular register attached to the front of the
furnace through the center of which the oil is projected
from the nozzle into the furnace in a cone-shaped spray.
The air flows around the oil spray and mixes with it in
the register and in the furnace where combustion takes
place.
The type and character of the oil burners and equipment manufactured and used by the United States, and
which are alleged by plaintiff to infringe his patents, are
indicated by the findings. These oil burners and equipment provide for the atomization of the oil by means of
its projection into the furnace under heavy pressure

STILZ v. UNITED STATES.
144

Opinion of the Court.

through spiral passages in the nozzle of the burner in a
whirling c~ne-shaped film which almost immediately upon
leaving the nozzle develops into fine spray. The air for
combustion is furnished under mild blower pressure in
the furnace room through an air register surrounding the
burner and burner opening into the furnace. The register
is provided with vanes or other means for giving the air
a whirling motion to facilitate the intermixture with the
oil spray. The oil and air are whirled together in the
same direction. No steam, air, or other gaseous fluid is
introduced into or used in the burner proper for any purpose, nor used with any part of the equipment for the
atomization of the oil. The air, which passes through the
register encircling the burner, is to supply oxygen necessary for combustion.
From the findings it clearly appears that the mixing of
the steam, air or other gaseous fluid with the oil in the
annular space to aid atomization before the spray is
brought into contact with the air supplied for combustion
and before it passes into the furnace is the important feature distinguishing the burners covered by plaintiff's patents from those above described which are manufactured
and used by the United States. The Court of Claims
expressly found, "It does not appear that any of the
devices of the plaintiff's said Letters Patent No. 945873
and No. 1066161 have been manufactured or used by the
United States, or that said letters patent have been
infringed by the United States."
Infringement is a question of fact. The quoted finding
is in the nature of a special verdict of a jury. United
States v. Anciens Etablissements,224 U. S. 309, 322, 330;
Brothers v. United States, 250 U. S. 88, 93. This Court
accepts the findings of fact made by the Court of Claims
and cannot review them. Collier v. United States, 173
U. S. 79, 80. And even where a finding determines a
mixed question of law and fact, it is conclusive unless the

148

OCTOBER TERM,1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

court is able to separate the question to see whether there
is a mistake of law. United States v. Omaha Indians, 253
U. S. 275, 281; Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 116; Whitcomb
v. White, 214 U. S.15, 16; Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S.
473, 476. Our consideration of the case is confined to
questions of law. Union Pacific Railway Ca. v. United
States, 116 U. S. 154, 157; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co.
v. United States, 260 U. S. 125. And the situation is the
same as it would be if the facts had been agreed upon by
the parties. United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, 271.
As no infringement was found, the facts are not sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS CITY STRUCTURAL STEEL COMPANY
v. ARKANSAS, FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF
ASHLEY COUNTY.
OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

No. 54.

Submitted October 15, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

the mean1. As to what constitutes doing business in a State within
corforeign
on
conditions
preliminary
imposing
laws
ing of its
Supreme
state
the
porations, this Court accepts the decision of
Court. P. 150.
was
2. But the questions whether a foreign corporation's business
therewere
applied
as
enactments
local
the
whether
interstate and
by
fore repugnant to the Commerce Clause, will be determined
this Court for itself. Id.
Arkansas, a
3. Without first obtaining permission to do business in
of an
construction
the
for
bid
successfully
Missouri corporation
a
executed
Arkansas bridge; executed the contract in Arkansas;
a
to
superstructure
steel
bond; sublet all the work except the
itself
to
Missouri
from
materials
Kansas firm; shipped structural
used
in Arkansas; delivered them there to the subcontractor which
manufacture
the
with
proceeded
and
work;
the
of
part
its
in
them
in Missouri of materials to be used by itself on the superstructure.
special
Held that these activities, viewed collectively, and with

