OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
49

55

Syllabus.

Constitution, such that if the construction contended for
were correct and the judge were sitting without warrant,
the trial would be without due process of law. We have
assumed that for the purposes of the decision, and also
that the question could be raised on habeas corpus.
The action of the District Court in dismissing the petition and remanding the prisoner is
Affirmed.
OLD DOMINION LAND COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOIR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT,

No. 55.

Argued October 16, 1925.-Decided Novembei 16, 1925.

1. The general purpose of a statute to authorize acquisition of property only to carry out existing agreements of the Government, will
not control a specific provision therein for the acquisition of property specifically mentioned, as to which there was no agreement.
Act of March 8, 1922, c. 100, § 1, 42 Stat. 418. P. 63.
2. The United States erected costry buildings on land which it leased
during the war, and, after expiration of the term, began proceedings
to condemn the land on the last day of a period allowed by the
lease for removing improvements. Held that the buildings were
the property of the United States -and not to be considered in
fixing the land owners' compensation. P. 65.
3. Therefore, the Act of March 8, 1922, supra, in excluding compensation for such improvements on the land in question, is not
unconstitutional. Id.
4. Whether the purpose of saving the loss of buildings erected on
leased land by the Government maybe a public purpose justifying
condemnation of the land, is not here decided. P. 66.
5. Although the purpose moving the Secretary of War to request
condemnation proceedings nay not be a public one, yet, if the
authorizing Act import an implied declaration of purpose by
Congress to acquire the land for military uses, which are public,
this must be accepted, if not shown to involve an impossibility.
P. 66.

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

269 i.S.

* Jurisdiction over a condemnation" suit brought at the request
of the Secretary of War under the Act of August 1, 1888, is not
dependent upon the precise shade of opinion, expressed by him in
his letter of request to the Attorney General, concerning the
necessity or advantage to the Government of procuring the land in
question. P. 66.
296 Fed. 20, affirmed.

6.

ERROR to a.judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a judgment of the District Court condemn-

ing land in a proceeding brought by the United States.
Messrs. J. Winston Read and Thomas H. Willcox, with
whom Mr. R. 0. Bickford was on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.
It was essential for the petition to show that, in the
opinion of the Secretary of War, it was necessary or ad-

vantageous to the United States that the lands mentioned
in the petition should be acquired by condemnation by
the United States. Act of August 1, 1888. The Government filed with its amended petition the letter of the
Secretary of War. This not only shows a failure to comoply with the Act, but also shows that the lands sought to
be condemned were not sought or needed by the United
States for public use, but simply for the public benefit to
protect the Government's interest in certain expenditures
made, or improvements placed on said lands. The Seeretary's certificate may properly be silent as to the purpose of the taking, but if it indicates that that purpose is
not for the "public use ", the certificate does not comply
with the statutory requirement.
There was no statutory authority for the taking. The
Acts of March 8, and July 1, 1922, show on their face that
* The Secretary's letter requesting the institution of condemnation proceedings reviewed the Government's relation to the land,
referred to the value of the improvements, and expressed his
opinion that "To protect the Government's interests it is necessary
and highly advantageous to acquire title to the lands upon which
these improvements are situated."

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
55

57

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the fundamental purpose was to purchase only what the
United States had previously obligated itself to purchase.
The Act of July 1, 1922, in nowise enlarges the scope of
the Act of March 8, 1922, and gives no additional authority. It simply makes appropriation for the purchases,
etc., provided for in the Act of March 8,1922. The Act of
July 11, 1919, indicated that the general policy of Congress was to stop war expenditures. The Act of March 8,
1922, proposed to purchase war \properties. This was,
without explanation, a violation of the policy of the Act
of July 1, 1919, above referred to, and the language of
the opening clauses of the later act was inserted to show
that it did not create an exception to that policy, but was
merely a recognition by the Government of obligations in
certain cases in the event they existed prior to the Act
of July, 1919.
The circumstances under which the Act was enacted,
and the representations made as an inducement to its
passage, clearly indicate that it was not the intention of
the Act to authorize purchases of land which the United
States held on lease for an agreed term and in respect
to which it owed the duty that every tenant owes to his
landlord. It is true that the Quartermaster Warehouses
at Newport News are specifically .mentioned in the Act
of March 8, 1922, but they are mentioned after the scope
of the Act has been specifically declared and their mention is preceded by the language: "For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section, the following
amounts are hereby authorized to lbe appropriated." The
language immediately preceding the language above
quoted shows that the Act is only intended to operate as
to real estate "in respect whereof" the United States has
become obligated.
The Act of March 8, 1922, is in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. The value of land should be fixed as of
the date of the proceedings. The location and surround-

.58

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

269 U. S.

ings must be considered in estimating value. On several
occasions Congress has attempted to exclude items of
value from awards to be made in condemnation proceedings. So far as our research extends, the courts have
Mononinvariably declared them unconstitutional.
gahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; In re
Montgomery, 48 Fed. 901; In re Manderson, 51 Fed. 501.
See also Hanson Lumber Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.
581.
Reports of the House and Senate Committees, and
statements of the committee members in charge of the
bills are admissible to show the legislative intent.
The lands are taken, not for the public use, but simply
for the public benefit. " Public use" and "public benefit" are not synonymous. Lewis on Em. Dom. § 165;
Richmond v. Carneal, 129 Va. 388; Salisbury Land &
Imp. Co. v. Massachusetts, 215 Mass. 371; Madisonville
Traction Ca. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S.'239;
In R e Opinion of Justices, 204 Mass. 607; Bloodgood v.
Mohawk, 18 Wend. (N. Y.), 9; Strickley v. Highland Boy
Co., 200 U. S. 527; Hairstonv. Danville & Wester.sRy.,
208 U. S. 598; Brown v. United States, 263 U. S. 78,
distinguished.
The United States, in this proceeding, is endeavoring
to save money for the Government by an outside land
speculation. The incidental saving in money to the
United States arising from this condemnation proceeding does not constitute such public use as is contemplated
by the constitutional provision.
But it is said that the use in the Act of the words ' for
the quartermaster warehouses at Newport News," is an
expressed declaration that the property is to be taken for
the plainly public use of quartermaster warehouses.
Such language is merely descriptive of the property as it
existed at the time of the passage of the Act. The Act

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
55

59

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

must be read in connection with the facts that existed
at the time. Long before, these properties were known
as "Quartermaster Warehouses." The Secretary's letter
to the Attorney General authorizing these proceedings
speaks of the "Quartermaster's Warehouses" as structures which had long been in existence, which structures
he had previously stated to the Military Committee were
no longer necessary for the public use. This recommenda-tion, showing that the purpose of the act was to acquire
the site for the quartermaster warhouses then in existence, was transmitted to Congress by the Chairman of
the Committee of Military Affairs of the House and of
the Senate.
There is nothing in either Act to show that the future
use of the property would be for quartermaster warehouses. It is true that the caption of the section of the
Act of July, 1922, making appropriations for the purchase
of the warehouse lands is "Sites for military purposes,"
but this Act neither authorizes, nor attempts to authorize
anything more than is authorized in the Act of March 8,
1922. It is merely a conventional designation. The fact
that the words " for the Quartermaster warehouses, etc.,"
were merely used to identify this particular property, and
not to indicate the future use to which said property was
to be devoted, is abundantly supported by the record.
All that this Court can say after reading the statutes
relied on by the Government and reading the petition of
the Government is that the property may have been
intended for a public use or may not have been. If it
gives any effect at all to the reports of the two chairmen
of the Committees it will be compelled to hold that the
property was not required for a public use. If the Court
gives any effect to the granting of a lease by the Secretary of War, it becomes entirely clear that no then present
public use existed for the taking of the land, since that

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

269 U. S.

lease could not be given except under the provisions of
the Act of July 28, 1892, which authorized such leases
only during the period when there was no public use.
That lease by its terms begins on the first day of August,
1922, one day after the institution of these proceedings.
The Government is authorized to sell or lease this property, if acquired. Army Appropriation Act, 41 Stat. 129,
130.
The facts proven upon trial should have been considered by the court in determining whether the property of
the plaintiff in error was taken for a public use. It is
the sole province of the courts to determine whether a
use is a public use. United States v. New River Collieries, 262 U. S. 341; Monongahela v. United States, 148
U. S. 312; Sears v. Akron, 246 U. S. 242; Rindge v. Los
Angeles, 262 U. S.700. In this view of the case, it is not
a question whether the court can deny the truth or good
faith of the expressed declaration in the statute, as suggested in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
When the language of the statute is considered in the light
of the facts proved in the case, and the congressional history of the Act is likewise taken into consideration, it is
clear that the woTds "for the Quartermaster warehouses,"
which otherwise might have been construed to designate
the use to which this property was to be put by the Government, are simply used to point out the particular
property to be taken. The statute would then be silent
on the question of future use; and under all of the authorities evidence would be admissible to show that the
purpose of the Government was to sell or lease the improvements it had placed upon the land. If Congress,
by a mere ipse dixit, can determine the question of public
use, and take away from the courts the power in that
regard, what protection is the constitutional provision to
the citizen? 20 C. J. 549; Block v. Hirsch, 256 U. S. 136;
Alfred Phosphate Co. v. Duck River Phosphate Co., 120
Tenn. 260; Varner v. Martin, 21 W. Va. 534.

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
55

61

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Plaintiff in error is entitled to compensation for the
value of the buildings erected on the leased premises and
not removed within the time provided in the lease.
The facts of this case do not bring it within Nor. & 0.
Ry. Co. v. Turnpike Co., 111 Va. 131; New River Etc,,
Co. v. Honaker, 119 Va. 641; Bear Gulch Placer Mining
Co. v. Walsh, 198 Fed. 351; Searl v. Lake County, 133
U. S. 553; Consol. Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk, etc., Ry. Co.,
228 U. S. 596. On the contrary, when the leases in controversy were made the United States had no idea of
taking them in condemnation proceedings, but took tf'e
precaution to execute a written contract with the owner,
whereby the right of removal was given it within a certain
limited time. Under these circumstances, there being no
intention to take this property by purchase or condemnation when the improvements were erected, and the facts
simply showing a case of neglect to remove the improvements within the time limited in the contract of lease,
the improvements now belong to the owner. Buildings
not removed during the term, or time limited by lease,
become the absolute property of the lessor, 2 Minor's
Inst., 613; 25 C. J. 706; 11 R. C. L. 1072; Freeman v.
Dawson, 110 U. S. 264; Kinkead v. United States, 150
U. S. 483; United States v. Bostwick, 94 U. S. 65; Clifford
v. United States, 34 Ct. Cls. 232; 32 Op. Atty. Gen. 114;
26 C. J. 705; Wood on Landlord and Tenant, 529;
Morey v. Hoyt, 62 Conn. 542; Ray v. Young, 160
Iowa 613; Tunis Lumber Co. v. Dennis Lumber Co.,
97 Va. 682; Highes v. Kershaw, (Colo.), 51 L. R. A.
(N. S.), 723. The right of possession of the plaintiff in
error was complete except as to such possession of the
United States as was necessary to enable it to remove the
warehouses.
The filing of the condeniation proceedings could not
extend the time of the United States for the remova.d of
the buildings,

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

269 U. S.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General -Beck was on the
brief, for the United States.
The statutes authorized and directed the Secretary of
War to acquire the land by condemnation if necessary. § 3,
Act March 8, 1922, 42 Stat. 418; United States v. Chase,
135 U. S. 255; Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S. 504; In re
Rouse, Hazard & Co., 91 Fed. 96; Old Dominion Land Co.
v. United States, 296 Fed. 21.
The land was condemned for public use. District of
Columbia v. Washington Market Co., 108 U. S. 243;
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Ass'n., 166 U. S.
290; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; United States v.
Des Moines Navigation Co., 142 U. S. 510; Soon Hing
v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; Old Dominion Land Co. v.
United' States, supra; Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282; Strickley v. Highland Boy Mining Co., 200
U. S. 527; Sears v. City of Akron, 246 U. S. 242; Rindge
Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700; Brown v.
United States, 263 U. S. 78; Hairston v. Danville & Western Ry., 208 U. S. 598; United States v. Forbes, 259 Fed.
585; Inre Military Training Camp, 260 Fed. 986; United
States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160 U. S. 668; Cooley'§
Const. Limit'ns. pp. 766, 777; Lewis, Eminent Domain,
§§ 259, 369.
The Act of March 8, 1922, which excludes the right of
the land company to recover compensation on account of
addition to the value of the land resulting from the
improvements made by or at the expense of the Government, is a valid exercise of congressional power. United
States v. New River Collieries, 262 U. S. 341; Consolidated Turnpike v. Norfolk & Ocean View Ry. Co.,
228 U. S. 596; United States v. Qamndler-Dunbar
Co., 229 U. S. 53; Old Dominion Land Co. v.
United States, supra; Pearson v. United States, 267
U. S. 423.

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
55

63

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a proceeding for the condemnation of land in
Newport News, Virginia, for the use of the United States.
Act of August 1, 1888, c. 728; 25 Stat. 357. It has resulted in a condemnation fixing the sum to be paid, subject to questions of law reserved by the plaintiff in error,
the Old Dominion Land Company, at the trial and decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 296 Fed. Rep.
20.-During the late war the Government took leases of
the land from the Old Dominion Land Company for military purposes and put structures upon it costing more
than a million and a half dollars. The leases were for
short terms and were renewed, until in 1922 the lessor
refused to renew them again. By the terms of the agreements the United States had a right to remove the structures but not beyond thirty days from the termination.
An offer to purchase the land was made by the United
States but was refused, and this proceeding was instituted
on July 29, 1922, just before the thirty days allowed by
the leases had run out. The main contentions of the
plaintiff in error are that the Acts of Congress relied upon
do not authorize the taking attempted her9; that one of
those Acts is unconstitutional, and that the taking,
although it might be for the benefit of the United States,
tO save its buildings, was not a taking for public use.
We are of opinion that these contentions, so far as material to the case, cannot be sustained and that the decision
below was right.
The statute authorizes this proceeding. The Appropriation Act of July 11, 1919, c. 8, 41 Stat. 104, 128, and
its Amendments of the same year, c. 44; ibid. 278, and
c. 90; ibid. 453, had stopped the purchase of land in connection with military purposes generally, except in certain
cases when it was more economical to buy than to pay
rent or damages. This Act was further amended how-

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ever by the Act of March 8, 1922, c. 100, § 1; 42 Stat. 418,
so as to "authorize completion of the acquisition of the
real estate hereinafter specified in respect whereof requisition notices had been served or given before July 11,
1919, . . . or in respect whereof agreements had been
made for purchase thereof, or proceedings begun for condemnation thereof." "For the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this section the following amounts are
hereby authorized to be appropriated, to wit:
for quartermaster warehouses, Newport News, Virginia,
$223,670." This is the land in question. By § 3 of the
same Act the Secretary of War was authorized to renew
leases in order to enable the Government to remove its
buildings and other property, and to approve awards and
to have new awards made for the purchase or condemnation of land necessary in his judgment for the operation
of water plants now located thereon, .&c., provided "that
any addition to the value of the premises resulting from
the improvements thereto or in the vicinity thereof made
by or at the expense of the United States shall be excluded
from the sum paid to or recovered by the owners." The
later Deficiencies Appropriation Act of July 1, 1922,
c. 258, 42 Stat. 767, 777 supplies deficiencies: "Sites for
military purposes: For completion of acquisition of real
estate as authorized by" the last mentioned Act: "For
quartermaster warehouses, Newport News, Virginia,
$223,670."
It is argued that the general purpose of this exception
to the stopping of expenditures was only to carry out
agreements by which the Government already was bound;
and that the specific appropriations were made only in
case the property mentioned was the object of such previous agreement. No doubt the generalpurpose was that
suggested, but the rest of the Act showed that the appropriation was not confined to that alone, and the specific
unqualified mention of the land in question -as land of

OLD DOMINION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
55

65

Opinion of the Court.

which the acquisition was to be completed overrides the
general statement, however much confirmed by citations
from the congressional debates.
Then it is said that the Act of March 8, 1922, was
unconstitutional by reason of the proviso that we have
stated, excluding from the compensation improvements
upon the land or in the vicinity thereof made by the
United States. There might be cases in which this provision could not be sustained, but there is no trouble here.
For supposing that the proviso were extended beyond the
taking in aid of a water plant to which it immediately
referred, it could have no bearing except upon the issue
agreed to by counsel, "whether the value of the ware-

houses constructed by the United States Government on
the lands sought to be condemned should be included in
the valuation of said lands." But upon this issue the
statute was superfluous. When these proceedings were
begun the buildings belonged to the United States. It
would not be just to allow the delay necessary in legal
proceedings to deprive the United States of rights that it
had and endeavored by this suit to assert. Consolidated
Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk & Ocean View Ry. Co., 228 U. S.
596, 602. In the often quoted language of Chief Justice
Shaw: "If a pie-powder court could be called on the
instant and on the spot, the true rule of justice for the
public would be, to pay the compensation with one hand,
while they apply the axe with the other." Parks v.
Boston, 15 Pick. 198, 208. It in no way appeared that
the value of the land was increased by other improvements in the vicinity, or otherwise than by the structures
upon the land so that the most indefensible aspects of the
statute are not before us here. Furthermore the instructions to the jury were that they were to determine the
fair market value of the land as well for its present purposes as for those for which it might be reasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

adapted at the time or in the immediate future, and to
take into consideration the facts and circumstances of its
location, &c., with no language that excluded consideration of improvements in the vicinity, if any. there were.
But it is said that the. taking was not for a public use,
because it is said that the Secretary of War at least was
thinking not of a future use of the land by, the public or
the Government but of saving the country from the loss
of the buildings. We shall not inquire whether this purpose was or was not so reasonably incidental to the necessarily hurried transactions during the war as to warrant
the taking, upon the principle illustrated by Brown v.
United States, 263 U. S. 78. Congress has declared the
purpose to be a public use, by implication if not by express
words. If we disregard the heading quoted from the
latest Act, 'Sites for military purposes', which we see
no reason for doing, and treat 'For .quartermaster warehouses' as descriptive rather than prospective, still there
is nothing shown in the intentions or transactioins of subordinates that is sufficient to overcome the declaration by
Congress of what it had in mind. Its decision is entitled
to deference until it is shown to involve an impossibility.
But the military purposes mentioned at least may have
.been entertained and they clearly were for a public use.
Some question is made as to whether a letter from the
Secretary of War to the Attorney General sufficiently
authorized the iiresent proceedings by showing that in his
opinion it was necessary or advantageous to the Government to take them. The Act of August 1, 1888, c. 728;
25 Stat. 359, allows the Secretary to acquire by condemnation lands which he is authorized to procure for public
purposes, 'whenever in his opinion it is necessary or advantageous to the Government to do so'; gives jurisdiction to the courts of the United States, and makes it the
duty of the Attorney General upon every application of
such officer to cause proceedings to be commenced. We

WESTERN UNION v. GEORGIA.
Counsel for Parties.

55

perceive no requirement that the Secretary should go
further than to apply to the Attorney General. Moreover, the Secretary's letter certainly showed that he
thought the suit would be advantageous to the Government, and we should be slow to suppose that the precise
shade of his opinion upon the point affected the jurisdiction of the Court.
Judgment affirmed.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
STATE OF GEORGIA, AS OWNER OF WESTERN
& ATLANTIC R. R., ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 24.

Argued October 9, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. A law authorizing suits in behalf of the State for the assertion of
its title to property does not impair any contract rights that a
party thus proceeded against may have in the subject matter.
P. 68.
2. Consequently an adjudication for the State is not reviewable in
this court by the defendant on the ground that the statute authorizing the suit violated the contract clause of the Constitution. Id.
Writ of error to review 156 Ga. 409, dismissed; certiorari denied.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
affirming a decree denying the claim of the Telegraph
Company to an easement of way in railroad property
owned by the State, and enjoining the Company to
remove its wires, poles and structures. Certiorari also
was applied for, and denied.
Messrs. John G. Milburn and Francis Raymond Stark,
with whom Messrs. Arthur Heyman and William L. Clay
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry C. Peeples, with whom Messrs. Fitzgerald
Hall and Hooper Alexander were on the briefs, for
defendants in error.

