OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

406

Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

consider and determine whether the road improvements
in question would benefit their lands. The act is repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Embree v. Kansas City Road District, supra, 251.
Decree reversed.
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. GONEAU.
CERTIORARI TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE OF

MINNESOTA.,

No. 76.

Argued December 3, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A brakeman, in an endeavor to couple a train where it had parted
between two cars while en route due to a defect in one of the automatic couplings, went between the ends of the cars and, while
exerting himself to bring the defective part into place, lost his
balance as a result of its sudden yielding, fell from a bridge on
which the cars had stopped and suffered injury. Held:
(1) That the defective car was in use, though motionless; P. 409.
(2) The act of the brakeman was a coupling, not a repair, operation; P. 410.
(3) The defective, coupling was a proximate cause of the accident and, it being in violation of the Safety Appliance Act, the
brakeman, under ยง 4 of the Employers' Liability Act, did not assume the risk; Id.
(4) Section 4 of the Supplemental Safety Appliance Act of 1910,
which permits defective cars, in certain circumstances, to be hauled
without penalties, to the nearest available point of repair, but
without releasing the carrier from liability for the injury of any
employee caused by or in connection with such hauling, had no
application. Id.
159 Minn. 41, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming a recovery of damages for personal
injures.

Mr. John E. Palmer, with whom Mr. Marshall A.
Spooner was on the brief, for petitioner.

MINNEAPOLIS,
406

ETC.,

RY. v. GONEAU.

407

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Samuel A. Anderson, for respondent.
MR. JusTice SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The respondent Goneau brought suit in a Minnesota
court to recoyer damages for personal injuries sustained
by him while employed as a brakeman on a freight train
of the Railway Company; the right of action being based
upon the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, 35 Stat. 65,
c. 149, and the Safety Appliance Act of 1893, 27 Stat. 531,
c. 196, as amended by the Act of 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976.
He recovered judgment, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 159 Minn. 41. The writ of
certiorari was granted in June, 1924. 265 U. S.579.
A motion was interposed to dismiss the writ of certiorari, the further consideration of which was postponed
to the hearing on the merits. We find that the motion is
not well founded; and it is denied.
By ยง 2 of the original Safety Appliance Act, as amended
by the Act of 1903-upon which the respondent relies-it
is made unlawful to haul or permit to be hauled or used
on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce any car
not equipped with automatic couplers which can be operated "without the necessity of men going between the
ends of the cars." And by ยง 4 of the Employers' Liability
Act it is provided that an employee shall not be held to
have assumed the risks of his employment in any case
where the violation by the carrier of any statute enacted
for the safety of employees contributes to his injury or
death.
By ยง 4 of the Supplemental Safety Appliance Act of
1910, 36 Stat. 298, c. 160,-upon which the petitioner
relies-it is provided that where a car has been properly
equipped and its equipment becomes defective while it is
being used by the carrier upon its line of railroad, the
car may be hauled, if necessary, from the place where the

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

defect is first discovered to the nearest available point
where it can be repaired, without liability for penalties,'
but without releasing the carrier from liability for the injury of any employee caused by or in connection with
the hauling of the car with such defective equipment.
It is admitted that the Railway Company was engaged in interstate commerce, and that Goneau was employed in such commerce. There was substantial evidence tending to show the following state of facts:
Goneau was the rear brakeman on a freight train which
broke in two, between stations, in the night time; the
two sections of the train stopping a few feet part, on a
narrow wooden bridge with open ties. The breaking of
the train was caused by a defective coupler on the rear
end of the last car in the front section. The defect was
in the carrier iron, a bar or plate bolted cross-wise under
the drawbar, which held the coupler in a position where
it would interlock with that of the opposite car. Several
bolts of this carrier iron were missing, and the nut had
come off the bolt holding up one of its ends,-the threads
being battered and partly stripped,--so that this end had
fallen off the bolt and swung back slantingly underneath
the drawbar, causing the coupler to drop down so that it
no longer interlocked; and thus breaking the train in
two. When the train stopped, Goneau, on an order from
the conductor, went forward to ascertain the trouble; and,
after he had discovered it, undertook, as was his duty, to
get the train coupled up again so that it could proceed on
its journey. To make the coupling it was necessary to get
the carrier iron back in place so as to hold the coupler in a
position where it would interlock. He made an effort to
do this by pulling the carrier iron back into a right angled
position and placing wooden wedges or "shims" which
he found on the bank, between it and the drawbar. This
raised the coupler so that it would partially interlock.
129 Stat. 85, c. 87.

MINNEAPOLIS, ETC., RY. v. GONEAU.
406

Opinion of the Court.

Upon his signals, the cars were then coupled together and
the train started upon its journey. But after proceeding a
few feet, it again broke and the two sections stopped a sec
ond time upon the bridge. Finding the coupler in its
former condition, he then attempted to make another
coupling. To do this he again stood between the cars on
the open ties, with his back to the outside of the bridge;
and, as before, put one knee under the drawbar to raise it
from the carrier iron, and with one hand attempted to pull
the carrier iron around to a right angle with the drawbar.
The carrier iron caught in some manner, and he failed at
first to move it. He then braced himself, lifted more
with his knee, and gave the carrier iron a harder pull, with
both hands. This time it "came easy," causing his right
foot to drop down between the ties; and, losing his balance, he fell backwards over the side of the bridge to the
ground below, sustaining serious injuries.
The Railway Company contends that the evidence did
not bring the case within the Safety Appliance Act or
warrant its submission to the jury under that Act; the
argument being, in substance, that the defective car, being
motionless at the time of the accident, was not then in
use; that Goneau was not engaged in any oupling operation or car movement, but was doing repair work at the
place where the defect was first discovered, which was
permitted by the Act of 1910, and whose risk he assumed;
and that the defective condition of the carrier iron was
merely a condition presenting the occasion for making the
repairs, and not a proximate cause of the accident.
We cannot sustain this contention. Under the circumstances indicated it is clear that the use of the defective
car had not ended at the time of the accident, although
it was then motionless. A defective car is still in use
when it has been moved with the train from the main
line to a siding, to be cut out and left so that the other
cars may proceed on their journey. Chicago Railroad v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Schendel, 267 U. S. 287, 291. And so it is while still in
a section of the train on the main line, to be coupled up
and proceed on its journey as a part of the train. And
see Baltimore Railroad v. Tittle (C. C. A.), 4 Fed. (2d)
818, 820.
Nor can it be said that Goneau was engaged in doing
repair work. He was not a repair man, but a brakeman,
and was not repairing the carrier iron, but attempting to
move it into place to support the coupler, so that the
coupling could be made and the train proceed. In short,
he was engaged in the work of coupling the cars, that is,
a& was said by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, "in a
coupling operation." Where, on the failure of cars to
couple by impact, a switchman goes between them for the
purpose of adjusting the knuckle of a coupler so that it
will make a coupling, and is injured by the fall of the
knuckle, due to a broken lip, he is not engaged in repair
work, but in coupling, and is within the protection of the
Safety Appliance Act. Baltimore Railroad v. Tittle,
supra, 820. And although Goneau, in testifying, stated
that when he found the coupler in such a condition that
he could not couple up the train unless he fixed it, it
became his duty to "repair it and get the train going,"
his use of fhe word "repair," upon which the Railway
Company lays great stress, does not change the situation
in the eyes of the law or transform the coupling operation
into repair work.
Since he was injured as a result of the defect in the
coupler, while attempting to adjust it for the purpose of
making an immediate coupling, the defective coupler was
clearly a proximate cause of the accident as distinguished
from a condition creating the situation in which it occurred. And under the Employer's Liability Act he cannot be held to have assumed the risk.
The Act of 1910, obviously, has no application.
As there was substantial evidence tending to show that
the defective coupler was a proximate cause of the acci-

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO.
406

411

Syllabus.

dent resulting in the injury to Goneau while he was
engaged in making a coupling in the discharge of lis duty,
the case was rightly submitted to the jury under the
Safety Appliance Act; and the issues having been determined by the jury in his favor, the judgment of the trial
court was properly affirmed. Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S.
239, 244.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE IMPROVE-

MENT COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 3.

Argued March 10, 11, 1924.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. An adjudication of a Circuit Court of Appeals final in its nature
as to the general subject of the litigation may be reviewed by this
Court, without awaiting the determination of a separate matter
affecting only the parties to such particular controversy. P. 413.
2. Under the provision of the Rivers and Harbors Act of July 18,
1918, directing that in proceedings to condemn lands in connection
with any improvement of rivers, where a part only of any parcel
is taken, the jury "shall take into consideration by way of reducing
the amount of compensation or damages any special and direct
benefit to the remainder arising from the improvement," an increase
in value of such remainder, caused by its frontage on a river as
widened and deepened by the improvement and the right of immediate access to and use of the improved stream, is such a "special
and direct benefit," although the remaining portions of other
riparian parcels would be similarly benefited. P. 414.
3. In the absence of a controlling local law, the right of the owner of
riparian property on a navigable river to have access from the
front of his land to the navigable part of the stream, and, when
not forbidden by public law, to construct landings, wharves or
piers for this purpose, is a property right incident to his ownership of the bank, which, though subject to the absolute power of
Congress over the improvement of navigable rivers, may not be
arbitrarily destroyed or impaired by legislation having no real or

