OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

This and similar unfortunate causes should admonish
the trial courts to require the use of meticulously precise
language in all judgment entries. Especial care is essential where sentences for crime are imposed.
We deem it proper to add that the sentence of fifteen
years imposed upon respondent seems extremely harsh.
Circumstances not disclosed by the record may justify it,
but only extraordinary ones could do so.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the one entered by the District Court is
affirmed. The cause will be remanded to the latter court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
O'HARA
CERTIORARI

ET AL.

TO

THE

v. LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP
COMPANY.
UNITED

APPEALS FOR

No. 224.

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

Argued November 19, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. Under the requirement of the Seamen's Act of March 4, 1915, that
" the sailors shall, while at sea, be divided into at least two, and
the firemen, dllers and water tenders into at least three watches,
which shall be kept on duty successively for the performance of
ordinary work incident to the sailing and management of the
vessel," all the sailors must be divided into watches as nearly
equal to each other numerically as the whole number of sailors
will permit. P. 367.
2. The purpose of this provision, as shown by the Act and its history, is to promote safety at sea rather than to regulate the working conditions of the men. Id.
3. The phrase "divided into watches" is to be given the meaning
it had acquired in the language and usages of the nautical tradeconnoting a division of the crew as nearly equal as possible.
P. 370.
1 Fed. (2d) 923, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel for seamen's wages.

O'HARA v. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
364

365

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. H. W. Hutton, for petitioners.
Mr. Peter S. Carter, with whom Messrs. Louis T.
Heng8tler and Frederick W. Dorr were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners, libellants below, quit the service of the
steamship company and sought to recover their earned
wages on the ground of a violation of § 2 of the Seamen's
Act of March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, copied in the
margin.' Omitting the various provisions with which we
1" SEC. 2. That in all merchant vessels of the United States of more
than one hundred tons gross, excepting those navigating rivers,' harbors, bays, or sounds exclusively, the sailors shall, while at sea, be
divided into at least two, and the firemen, oilers, and water tenders
into at least three watches, which shall be kept on duty successively
for the performance of ordinary work incident to the sailing and
management of the vessel. The seamen shall not be shipped to work
alternately in 'the fireroom and on deck, nor shall those shipped for
deck duty be required to work in the fireroom, or vice versa; but
these provisions shall not limit either the authority of the master or
other officer or the obedience of the seamen when, in the judgment
of the master or other officer, the whole or any part of the crew are
needed for the maneuvering of the vessel or the performance of work
necessary for the safety of the vessel or her cargo, or for the saving
of life aboard other vessels in jeopardy, or when in port or at sea
from requiring the whole or any part of the crew to participate in
the performance of fire, lifeboat, and other drills. While such vessel
is in a safe harbor no seaman shall be required to do any unnecessary
work on Sundays or the following-named days: New Year's Day,
the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas
Day, but this shall not prevent the dispatch of a vessel on regular
schedule or when ready to proceed on her voyage. And at all times
while such vessel is in a safe harbor, nine hours, inclusive of the
anchor watch, shall constitute a day's work. Whenever the master
of any vessel shall fail to comply with this section, the seamen shall
be entitled to discharge from such vessel and to receive the wages
earned. But this section shall not apply to fishing or whaling vessels,
or yachts."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

are not here concerned, the pertinent requirement of that
section is that "the sailors shall, while at sea, be divided
into at least two, and the firemen, oilers, and water
tenders into at least three watihes, which shall be kept
on duty successively for the performance of ordinary work
incident to the sailing and management of the vessel."
For a failure on the part of the master to comply with
this, among other provisions of the section, the seamen
are entitled to a discharge and to receive the wages earned.
The failure complained of was that the sailors were not
divided into watches of equal or approximately equal
numbers, as, it was insisted, the statute contemplated.
The company was the owner of the steamship "Lewis
Luckenbach," a vessel of 14,400 tons burden, upon which
libellants were hired as sailors for a voyage from New
York to Pacific ports and return to some port north of
Cape Hatteras on the Atlantic. Altogether, there were
thirteen sailors on board, three of whom, including libellants, were assigned as quartermasters.. On the voyage
and while at sea, these sailors were not equally divided
into watches. Three watches were on duty, each consisting of one quartermaster and one able seaman, the remaining seven sailors being kept at day work only. The
district court dismissed the libel and this was affirmed by
the court of appeals. 1 Fed. (2nd) 923. Both courts
were of opinion that the primary object of the statutory
provision was to fix hours of service so as to prevent overwork, not to prescribe the number of seamen on each
watch. The district court thought that this conception of
the law was borne out by the consideration that, if onehalf or one-third of the crew must be assigned to duty at
night, a majority of them would have little or nothing
to do. The court of appeals seemed to think that the purpose of Congress to provide for the safety of the ship was
satisfied rather in the selection of qualified quartermasters
and men for the lookout than in the equality of the
watches. With these views we are unable to agree.

O'HARA v. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
364

Opinion of the Court.

The general purpose of the Seamen's Act is not only
to safeguard the welfare of the seamen as workmen, but,
as set forth in the title, also "to promote safety at sea."
The Act as a whole shows very clearly that, while hours of
work and proper periods of rest were regarded as considerations of primary concern while the vessel is in a safe
harbor, these considerations must yield, as they have always yielded, to the paramount necessity of safety while
the ship is at sea. And, as indicating that the provision
under review was not intended primarily as a regulation
of working hours, it is significant that it does not apply
to the entire crew, but requires a division into watches
only of the sailors and the firemen, oilers and water
tenders. It is natural to suppose that if the purpose of
Congress was chiefly to regulate hours of work, something would have been said about the service, while at
sea, of those employed in the steward's department as
well. And not only is the division confined to those of
the crew engaged in the mechanics of conducting the
ship on her voyage, but the imperative requirement is
that the watches into which they are divided "shall be
kept on duty successively," that is to say by turns, so
that one watch must come on as another goes off. The
evident purpose was to compel a division of the men for
duty on deck and in the fireroora and continuity of service, to the end that in those departments the ship should
at all times be actively manned with equal efficiency. It
probably is true, as said below, that to construe the statute
as compelling numerical equality of the watches will
result, so far as the sailors are concerned, in the performance of less work on deck at night. And it may be noted,
in that connection, that in the hearings before the House
committee having charge of the bill, it was objected on
behalf of the shipowners, obviously, as the context shows,
upon the theory that such equality was in fact contemplated by the provision, that, "on cargo steamers, it would

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

be an injustice to keep a lot of men on watch, all night,
and have nothing for them to do." House Hearings on
S. 136, Vol. 104, pt. 2, p. 5, Feb. 24, 1914. But the provision, fundamentally, is a measure of precaution against
those perilous and often unexpected emergencies of the
sea when only immediate and wakeful readiness for action
may avert disaster or determine the issue between life
and death; its effect as a regulator of working conditions
is a matter of subordinate intent. A consideration of
other safety provisions of the Act will help to make this
clear.
Among them, the Act (§ 13, p. 1169) provides that not
less than seventy-five per centum of the crew in each
department shall be able to understand any order given
by the officers of such vessel; and that a certain percent-age of her deck crew shall be of a rating not less than
able seaman-meanihg, except on the Great Lakes, a
seaman nineteen years of age or upwards who has had at
least three years' service on deck at sea or on the Great
Lakes. It also contains elaborate provisions (§ 14, pp.
1170-1184) for the equipment of ocean-going vessels with
life-saving appliances, and, among other things, requires
(p. 1180) that "At no moment on its voyage may any
ocean-cargo steam vessel of the United States have on
board a total number of persons greater than that for
whom accommodation is provided in the lifeboats on
board." None of these provisions is of much if any concern except as a precaution against the unusual crises of
the sea.
As a ship pursues her way in security, perhaps for many
years, these requirements for safety appliances and for
able seamen may seem over-exacting, and the language
test, as well as a division of the watches into equal numbers, needlessly burdensome. But it is apparent from
the hearings and debates, that Congress looked forward
to the possibility of other disasters like those of the

O'HARA v. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
364

Opinion of the Court.

Titanic and the Volturno, (the facts of which had been
subjected to inquiry by its committees) where, in the one,
the lack of lifeboats probably caused the loss of many
lives, although in a quiet sea, and where, in the other,
lifeboats lowered in a great storm were engulfed, it was
thought by some, from the absence of the skill of able
seamen in launching them; or like that of the City of Rio
de Janeiro (In re Pacifio Mail S. S. Co., 130 Fed. 76),
which sank with many of its lifeboats unlaunched because
the crew of Chinese sailors were unable to understand the
language in which the orders of their officers were given.
The following from the opinion in that case (pp. 82-83)
is peculiarly apposite:
"It is, as was said by Judge Hawley in Re Meyer
(D. C.) 74 Fed. 855, 'the duty of the owners of a steamer
carrying goods and passengers, not only to provide a seaworthy vessel, but they must also provide the vessel with
a crew adequate in number, and competent for their duty
with reference to all the exigencies of the intended route';
not merely competent for the ordinary duties of an uneventful voyage, but for any exigency that is likely to
happen, . . . The case shows that the City of Rio de
Janeiro left the port of Honolulu, on the voyage under
consideration, with a crew of 84 Chinamen, officered by
white men. The officers could not speak the language of
the Chinese, and but two of the latter-the boatswain
and chief fireman-could understand that of the officers.
Consequently, the orders of the officers had to be communicated either through the boatswain or chief fireman,
or by signs and signals. So far as appears, that seemed
to have worked well enough on the voyage in question,
until the ship came to grief, and there arose the necessity
for quick and energetic action in the darkness. In that
emergency the crew was wholly inefficient and incompetent, as the sad results proved. The boats were in separate places on the ship. The sailors could not understand

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the language in which the orders of the officers in command of the respective boats had to be given. It was too
dark for them to see signs (if signs could have been intelligibly given), and only one of the two Chinese who spoke
English appears to have known anything about the lowering of a boat; and there had been no drill of the crew in
the matter of lowering them. Under such circumstances
it is not surprising that but three of the boats were lowered, one of which was successfully launched by the efforts
of Officer Coghlan and the ship's carpenter, another of
which was swamped by one of the Chinese crew letting the
after fall down with a run, and the third of which was
lowered so slowly that it was swamped as the ship went
down. We have no hesitation in holding that the ship
was insufficiently manned, for the reason that the sailors
were unable to understand and execute the orders made
imperative by the exigency that unhappily arose, and resulted s@ disastrously to life, as well as to property."
See also R. S. § 4463, amended c. 72, 40 Stat. 548; Flint
& P. M. R. Co. v. Marine Ins. Co., 71 Fed. 210, 219;
Northern Commercal Co. v. Lindblom, 162 Fed. 250, 254.
It is not unreasonable to conclude that Congress determined that each of the watches, like the crew as a whole,
should be "adequate in number," competent and in a state
of readiness" for any exigency that is likely to happen "such as a collision, the striking of the ship upon a reef of
rocks or an iceberg, the sudden breaking out of fire, and
other happenings of like disastrous tendency-and to this
end meant to provide for successive and continuous
Natches to be constituted in numbers as nearly equal as
the sum of the whole number would permit.
In this conclusion we "are fortified by the conisideration
that the legislation deals with seamen and the merchant
marine and, consequently, the phrase "divided into . .
watches" is to be given the meaning which it had acquired
in the language and usages of the trade to which the Act
relates, in accordance with the rule stated in Unwin v.

O'HARA v. LUCKENBACH S. S. CO.
364

Opinion of the Court.

Hanson, [1891] L. R. 2 Q. B. 115, 119: "If the Act is one
passed with reference to a particular trade, business, or
transaction, and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade, business, or transaction, knows and
understands to have a particular meaning in it, then the
words are to be construed ashaving that particular meaning, though it may differ from the common or ordinary
meaning of the words." In the understanding of the
sailor, a division into "watches," as applied to the personnel of the ship, connotes a division as nearly equal as
possible. "At sea a ship's crew is commonly divided into
two watches; the Master, 2nd Mate, 4th Mate (if any)
with one-half of the seamen and boys, forming the socalled 'Starboard Watch'; after four hours these are relieved by the Chief-mate, and the 3rd Officer (if any) and
the other half of the men, who form the 'Port Watch '."
Paasch, Marine Encyclopedia, 300, 301. R. H. Dana, Jr.,
in his "Dictionary of Sea Terms," p. 129, defines the
term "watch" as: "Also, a certain portion of a ship's
company, appointed to stand a given length of time. In
the merchant service all hands are divided, into two
watches, larboard and starboard, with a mate to command
each." And, at page 133, he says: "The men are divided
as equally as possible, with reference to their qualities as
able seamen, ordinary seamen, or boys, (as all green hands
are called, whatever their age may be;) but if the number
is unequal, the larboard watch has the odd one, since the
chief mate does not go aloft and dd other duties in his
watch, as the second mate does in his." The point is
emphasized by the use of the distinctive terms "anchor
watch" and "sea watch ", the former meaning the lookout
entrusted to one or two men when the vessel is at anchor
and the latter being used "when one half of a ships crew
is on duty" at sea. Paasch, 301.
It is true that this meaning had its origin in the customs
of the sea before the advent of steam, but there is nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

to show that it has now a different meaning; and, with
nothing in the context and no evidential circumstances to
suggest the contrary, we fairly may assume that the use
of the technical terms of the trade to which the statute
relates imports their technical meaning.
Decree reversed.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON,
COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 156.

Argued November 16, 17, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. The mere fact that one .person has adopted and used a trademark on his goods does not prevent the adoption and use of the
same trade-mark by others on articles of a different description.

P. 379.
2. The law of trade-marks is but a part of the broader law of unfair
competition, the general purpose of which is to prevent one person
from passing off his goods or his business as the goods or business

of another. Id.
3. Whether the name of a corporation be regarded as a trade-mark,
a trade name, or both, the law affords protection against its appropriation on the same fundamental principles. P. 380.
4. The effect of assuming a name by a corporation under the law of
its creation is to exclusively appropriate it as an element of the
corporation's existence. Id.
5. Equity will enjoin the appropriation and use by another of a
trade-mark or trade name resembling the name of a corporation
where, from the closeness of the resemblance and the other facts
of the particular case, it appears that confusion of identity may
likely result to the injury of such corporation. P. 381.
6. The provision of § 5 of the Trade Mark Act of February 20, 1905,
that no mark consisting merely of the name of a corporation shall
be registered under the Act, is to be construed in harmony with
the foregoing principles, and does not prevent registration of part
of the name of a corporation where the partial appropriation is

