STEPHENSON v. KIRTLEY.
Statement of the Case.

STEPHENSON ET AL. v. KIRTLEY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 58.

Submitted October 16, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. An attachment affidavit stating generally the nature of the plaintiff's claim and setting forth, with reasonable certainty and the
particularity of fact necessary to show a cause of action, the unpaid
judgments upon which the claim was based, held a sufficient compliance with the requirement of the West Virginia Code that such
affidavit state "the nature of the plaintiff's claim." P. 166.
2. Where a writ of attachment has been issued and levied, the preliminary affidavit has served its purpose, and even though it be so
defective that an appellate court might find in it sufficient error to
reverse the judgment, this does not deprive the court of the jurisdiction acquired by the levy of the writ. Id.
3. Recitals in a decree of sale in a creditors suit, showing that the
court acted on satisfactory evidence in adjudging that the deeds
in question were made to defraud creditors, import verity and can
not be drawn in question in a collateral attack by a party who was
served only by publication and did not appear and who alleges that
the court (under the West Virginia Code) could make no valid
decree because no proof of fraud was offered. Id.
.4. In such a suit, where the court has acquired jurisdiction by attachment and has entered a decree nisi on an order of publication, the
allegations of the complaint that the deeds in question were fraudulent may be sustained by the default as well as by proof; and
failure to hear 'proof.before adjudging them fraudulent and ordering a sale is neither beyond the court's jurisdiction nor a denial of
due process. Id.
5. Upon an appeal from a decree dismissing on motion a bill to set
aside a judgment, this Court, finding the judgment valid against
the objections made in the bill, will not consider other matters
relating to it which are urged in the briefs. P. 167.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of T,.he District Court dismissing
the bill, on motion, in a s~rt to annul proceedings of a
West Virginia court, whereby deeds, made by one of the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

appellants to the others, were set aside as in fraud of
creditors, and the property sold to satisfy judgment debts.
Messrs. Edward W. Knight and Harold A. Ritz, with
whom Messrs. A. J. Horan, Lon H. Kelly and Herman L.
Bennett were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. J. H. McClintic, with whom Mr. A. N. Breckinridge was on the brief, for Kirtley and Herold, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The .appellants brought this suit in equity in the District Court to set aside certain proceedings in a Circuit
Court of West Virginia, whose validity they challenged,
inter alia,for repugnancy to the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The bill was dismissed by the
District Court, upon defendants' motion, without opinion.
This direct appeal was' allowed, March 31, 1924, under
ยง 238 of the Judicial Code.
The case made by the bill and exhibits is this: The
plaintiffs are non*-residents of West Virginia. Four of
them claim to be the owners of certain undivided interests
in lands in Nicholas County, West Virginia, conveyed to
them by deeds from their co-plaintiff W. B. Stephenson,
executed in good faith and for valuable considerations.
The defendant Cawley, a creditor of W. B. Stephenson
holding unsatisfied judgments against him, brought a suit
in equity against the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court of the
county to set aside the deeds as fraudulent and sell the
lands to satisfy the judgments. The plaintiffs were proceeded against as non-residents, by an order of publieation, without personal service of process. An order of
attachment was also issued and levied upon the lands.
The plaintiffs not having appeared within the time required by the order of publication, a decree nisi was
entered and set for hearing; and thereafter a decree was

STEPHENSON v. KIRTLEY.
163

Opinion of the Court.

entered adjudging that the deeds from W. B. Stephenson
were made to defraud his creditors, setting the same aside
as to the debt to Cawley, and directing a sale of the lands
in satisfaction of the judgments. They were purchased
by the defendants Kirtley and Herold at the commissioners' sale. This sale was confirmed by a subsequent
decree; and a deed was executed by the commissioners to
the purchasers, who'entered into possession of the lands.
The plaintiffs, who under the laws of West Virginia were
allowed to appear and make defense to the suit within two
years from the date of the final decree, had no knowledge
of these proceedings until after this time had expired.
The bill alleged that these proceedings were null and
void: 1st, because the Circuit Court did not have jurisdiction to enter the decrees, since under the laws of West
Virginia the order of attachment upon which~its jurisdiction depended was void and conferred no jurisdiction for
the reason that the affidavit upon which it was based
lacked the required certainty and was invalid; and 2nd,
because under the law of West Virginia there can be no
valid decree in a suit in which no personal service has been
had without proof of the facts upon which it rests, and the
court was without jurisdiction to enter the decree setting
aside the deeds and ordering the sale, for the reason that
no proof was offered that the deeds were fraudulent.
The bill further alleged that the action of the Circuit
Court in adjudging that the deeds were fraudulent, without personal service of process or hearing any evidence or
having any trial upon the question, and decreeing the sale
of the lands, was a denial of due process of law to the
plaintiffs in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and
it prayed that the decrees directing and confirming the
sale of the lands, and the commissioners' deed thereto, be
decreed to be null and void; that the cloud arising therefrom upon their title be removed; and that they be adjudged to be the owners of the lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

1. Assuming, without deciding, that notwithstanding
the constructive service of process by the order of publication, the jurisdiction of the court over the lands depended
upon the attachment, we find no invalidity in the affidavit
on which the order of attachment issued. The statute
merely requires the affidavit to state "the nature of the
plaintiff's claim." Barnes' West Virginia Code, ch. 106,
ยง 1, p. 1995. Here, after stating generally the nature of
the claim, it set forth, with reasonable certainty and the
particularity of fact necessary to show a cause of action,
the unpaid judgments held by Cawley against W. B.
Stephenson upon which the claim was based. This was
sufficient. Flannigan v. Tie Co., 77 W. Va. 158, 159.
Furthermore, where a writ of attachment has been issued
and levied, the preliminary affidavit has served its purpose, and even though it be defective and an appellate
court might find in it sufficient error to reverse the judgment, this does not deprive the court of the jurisdiction
acquired by the levy of the writ. Cooper v. Reynolds,
10 Wall. 308, 319; Ludlow v. Ramsey, 11 Wall. 581, 588;
Miller v. White, 46 W. Va. 67, 71; McIntosh v. Oil Co.,
47 W. Va. 832, 837.
2. It is recited in the decree of sale that it appeared to
the satisfaction of the court "from the papers and evidence" that the deeds from W. B. Stephenson were made
to defraud his creditors. The present suit is a collateral
proceeding to set aside the sale made by the Circuit
Court, (Ludlow v. Ramsey, supra, p. 587,) a court of
general jurisdiction; and the recitals in its decree, which
import verity, cannot be drawn in question herein. Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, 265. Furthermore, as the
court had acquired jurisdiction by the levy of the writ of
attachment and a decree nisi had been entered upon the
order of publication, a failure to hear proof before adjudging that the deeds were fraudulent and ordering the sale,
would neither have deprived the court of its jurisdiction

BEAZELL v. OHIO.
163

Syllabus.

nor constituted a denial of due process. The allegations
of the complaint might be established either by the introduction of proof or by admission through the default; and
error or irregularity in this respect would neither constitute ground for setting aside the decree which the court
had acquired jurisdiction to render, nor take from it the
attribute of due process. Ballard.v. Hunter, supra, pp.
250, 258.
3. This disposes of all the grounds upon which the
validity of the proceedings was challenged by the bill.
We therefore neither consider other matters urged in the
appellants' brief relating to the alleged invalidity of the
order of publication, nor the defense of good faitA purchase relied upon in the brief of appellees. We find no
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court by reason of the
matters alleged in the bill, nor want of due process invalidating the proceedings under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
BEAZELL v. OHIO ET AL.
CHATFIELD v. OHIO ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 247, 248.

Motions to dismiss or arm submitted October 5,
1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The-constitutional provision (Art. I. Sec. 10) forbidding the States
to pass ex post facto laws was intended to secure substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive legislation, and not
to limit the legislative control of remedies and modes of procedure
which do not affect matters of substance. P. 171.
2. An Ohio law providing that when two or more persons were jointly
indicted for a felony, on application to the court each should be
tried separately, was amended so as to require a joint trial, unless
the court should order otherwise for good cause shown. Held that
the amendment was not an ex post facto law, within the constitutional restriction, as applied to persons who' were indicted after,

