BEAZELL v. OHIO.
163

Syllabus.

nor constituted a denial of due process. The allegations
of the complaint might be established either by the introduction of proof or by admission through the default; and
error or irregularity in this respect would neither constitute ground for setting aside the decree which the court
had acquired jurisdiction to render, nor take from it the
attribute of due process. Ballard.v. Hunter, supra, pp.
250, 258.
3. This disposes of all the grounds upon which the
validity of the proceedings was challenged by the bill.
We therefore neither consider other matters urged in the
appellants' brief relating to the alleged invalidity of the
order of publication, nor the defense of good faitA purchase relied upon in the brief of appellees. We find no
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court by reason of the
matters alleged in the bill, nor want of due process invalidating the proceedings under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
BEAZELL v. OHIO ET AL.
CHATFIELD v. OHIO ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 247, 248.

Motions to dismiss or arm submitted October 5,
1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. The-constitutional provision (Art. I. Sec. 10) forbidding the States
to pass ex post facto laws was intended to secure substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive legislation, and not
to limit the legislative control of remedies and modes of procedure
which do not affect matters of substance. P. 171.
2. An Ohio law providing that when two or more persons were jointly
indicted for a felony, on application to the court each should be
tried separately, was amended so as to require a joint trial, unless
the court should order otherwise for good cause shown. Held that
the amendment was not an ex post facto law, within the constitutional restriction, as applied to persons who' were indicted after,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

for an offense alleged to have been committed before, the date of
the amendment. P. 170.
111 Ohio St. 838; Id. 839, affirmed.

ERROR to judgments of the Supreme Court of Ohio
affirming convictions of embezzlement. The cases are
disposed of here on motions to dismiss or affirm.
Messrs. John Wilson Brown, Charles S. Bell, Nelson
Schwab, and Louis Schneider, for the State of Ohio.
Messrs. Province M. Pogue, Harry M. Hoffheimer and
Thomas L. Pogue, for Beazell.
Mr. Frank F. Dinsmore, for Chatfield.
The following authorities were cited and relied upon in
the arguments for plaintiffs in error. Bergin v. State, 31
Oh. St. 113; 12 C. J. ยง 803; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S.
343; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 378; Ex parte Medley,
134 U. S. 160; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221; Mallet v.
North Carolina,181 U. S. 589; Society v. Wheeler, 2 Gall.
139; State v. Morrow, .90 Oh. St. 202; Ciain v. United
States, 162 U. S. 624; Cooley's Const. Lim'ns. 373; Frisby
v. United States, 13 App. D. C. 22; State v. Barlow, 70 Oh.
St. 363; Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiffs in error were jointl indicted in the Court of
Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, for the crime
of embezzlement, a felony. On-February 13, 1923, the
date of the offense as charged, Ohio General Code, ยง 13,677,
provided: "When two or more persons are jointly indicted for a felony, on application to the court for that
purpose, each shall be separately tried." In April of the
same year, before the indictment, which was returned on
October 25, this section was amended (110 Ohio Laws,
301) so as to provide:

BEAZELL v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

167

"When two or more persons are jointly indicted for a
felony, except a capital offense, they shall be tried
jointly, unless the court for good cause shown, on appli.'cation therefor by the prosecuting attorney, or one or
more of said defendants order that one or more of said
defendants shall be tried separately."
By another section, the amended Act was made applicable to trials for offenses committed before the amendr
ment.
The defendants severally made motions for separate
trials on the ground that their defenses would be different; that each would be prejudiced by the introdhction of evidence admissible against his co-defendant, but
inadmissible as to him; and that they were entitled to
separate trials as a matter of right, specifically charging
that, as applied to their own indictment and trial, " the
amendment to the Statutes of Ohio making the granting of said application for a separate trial discretionary
with the trial court, is an ex post facto law within the
restrictions imposed by Article 1, Section 10 of the Constitution of the United States," which provides that "No
State shall

.

.

.

pass any

.

.

ex post facto Law."

Both motions were denied; the joint trial and conviction of the defendants followed; and in proceedings duly
had in which the constitutional question was raised, their
conviction was sustained by the Supreme Court of Ohio.
The case comes before this court on-motions to dismiss the
writs of error or to affirm the judgment below.
It is settled, by decisions of this Court so well known
that their citation may be dispensed with, that any statute which punishes as a crime an act previously committed, which was innocent when done; which makes
more burdensome the punishment for a crime, after its
commission, or which deprives one charged with crime
of any defense available according to law at the time
when tle act was committed, is prohibited as ex post

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

facto. The constitutional prohibition and the judicial
interpretation of it rest upon the notion that laws, whatever their form, which purport to make innocent acts
criminal after the event, or to aggravate an offense, are
harsh and oppressive, and that the criminal quality attributable to an act, either by the legal definition of the
offense or by the nature or amount of the punishment imposed for its commission, should not be altered by legislative enactment, after ttie fact, to the disadvantage of
the accused.
But the statute of Ohio here drawn in question affectsonly the manner in which the trial of those jointly accused shall be conducted. It does not deprive the plaintiffs in error of any defense previously available, nor affect
the criminal quality of the act charged. Nor does it
change the legal definition of the offense or the punishment to be meted out. The quantum and kind of proof
required to establish guilt, and all questions which may
be considered by the court and jury in determining guilt
or innocence, remain the same.
Expressions are to be found in earlier judicial opinions
to the effect that the constitutional limitation may be
transgressed by alterations in the rules of evidence or
procedure. See Calder v. Bull, 3- Dall. 386, 390; Cummings v. State of Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 326; Kring v.
Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228, 232. And there may be
procedural changes which operate to deny to the accused
a defense available under the laws in force at the time
of the commission of his offense, or which otherwise affect
him in such a harsh and arbitrary manner as to fall within
the constitutional prohibition. Kring v. Missouri, 107
U. S. 221; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343. But it is
now well settled that statutory changes in the mode of
trial or the rules of evidence, which do not deprive the
accused of a defense and which operate only in a limited
and unsubstantial manner to his disadvantage, are not
prohibited. A statute which, after indictment, enlarges

BEAZELL v. OHIO.
167

Opinion of the Court.

the class of persons who may be witnesses at the trial,
by removing the disqualification of persons convicted of
felony, is not an ex post facto. law. Hopt. v. Utah, 110
U. S. 574. Nor is a statute which changes the rules of
evidence after the indictment so as to render admissible
against the accused evidence previously held inadmissible.
Thompson v. Missouri, 171 U. S. 380; or which changes
the place of trial, Gut v. The State, 9 Wall. 35; or which
abolishes a court for hearing criminal appeals, creating
a new one in its stead. See Duncan v. Missouri, 152
U. S.377, 382.
Just what alterations of procedure will be held to be of
sufficient moment to transgress the constitutional prohibition cannot be embraced within a formula or stated
in a general proposition. The distinction is one of degree.
But the constitutional provision was intended to secure
substantial personal rights against arbitrary and oppressive legislation, see Malloy v. South Carolina, 237 U. S.
180, 183, and not to limit the' legislative control of remedies and modes of procedure which do not affect matters
of substance. See Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565,
590; Thompson v. Missouri,supra, 386; Mallett v. North
-Carolina,181 U. S.589, 597.
-The legislation here concerned restored a mode of trial
deemed appropriate at common law, with discretionary
power in the court to direct separate trials. We do not
regard it as harsh or oppressive as applied to the plaintiffs in error, or as affecting any right or immunity more
substantial than did the statute which changed the qualification of jurors, upheld in Gibson v. Mississippi, supra;
or the statute which granted to the State an appeal from
an intermediate appellate court, upheld in Mallettv. North
Carolina,supra. Obviously the statute here isless bur*densome to the accused than those involved in Hopt v.
Utah, supra, and Thompson v. Missouri, supra.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio is
Affirmed.

