266

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S

reverse a judgment of that court, on the ground that it
was the highest court in which a decision in the suit could
be had. It was held, however, that as the Supreme Court
by the constitution of the State had authority to review
the judgments and decrees of the Court of Appeals by
certiorari and no application had been made therefor, the
Court of Appeals could not be considered the court of last
resort and a writ of error from this Court to that would
not lie. The same view was taken in Andrews v. The
Virginian Railway Company, 248,U. S. 272. The plaintiffs in error are thus in a dilemma from which they cannot escape. If the Supreme Court by final decree disposed of the constitutional questions on the merits by
dismissal of the petition, then the writ of error lay to the
Supreme Court. If it did not, then the decree of the
Court of Appeals did not become that of the highest court
to which a writ of error would lie from this Court for lack
of application for certiorari.
Writs of errordismissed.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RY. CO. v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 273. Argued Nov. 19, 20, 1925.-Decided November 30, 1925.
The provision of the Hours of Service Act, "that no operator, train
dispatcher or other employee who by the use of the telegraph or
telephone dispatches, reports, transmits, receives or delivers orders
pertaining to or affecting train movements shall be required or
permitted to be or remain on duty for a longer period than nine
hours," etc., does not apply to a yardmaster, under circumstances
described in the opinion. P. 267.
3 Fed. (2d) 138, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment for penalties, recovered

ATCHISON,
266

ETC.

RY.. v. UNITED STATES.

267

Opinion of the Court.

from the Railroad by the United States in a prosecution
under the Hours of Service Act. See 298 Fed. 549.
W.
4 1r. Edward C. Craig, with whom Messrs. Homer
ConA.
J.
and
Davis, John G. Drennan., Nelson J. Wilcox
nell were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought by the United States to recover penalties for alleged violation of the Hours of Service Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2939, § 2; 34 Stat. 1415. The
case was tried by a Judge under a stipulation waiving a
jury. Rev. Stats. §§ 649, 700. He found the defendant
railroad company liable, subject to an exception to his
refusal to rule that there was no evidence to warrant a
recovery. The facts were not in dispute and the decision
turned on the Judge's view of the law. 298 Fed. 549. His
judgment was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
3 Fed. (2d) 138. The material part of the statute is:
"that no operator, train dispatcher, or other employee
who by the use of the telegraph or telephone dispatches,
reports, transmits, receives, or delivers orders pertaining
to or affecting train movements shall be required or permitted to be or remain on duty for a longer period than
nine hours in any twenty-four hour period in all towers,
offices, places, and stations continuously operated night
and day." Two yardmasters were kept on duty for twelve
hours each, by the railroad company in its Corwith Yard,
Chicago, and the question is whether upon the statement
of their duties they fell within the Act, bearing in mind
that "The purpose of the statute is to promote safety in
operating trains by preventing the excessive mental and
physicial strain which usually results from remaining too

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

long at an exacting task." Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v.
United States, 247 U. S. 197, 199, 200.
The Corwith Yard lies to the South of the defendant's
road, which runs East and West. Between the Yard and
the road, and parallel to the latter, runs the road of the
Chicago & Alton Railroad, which must be crossed by cars
coming from or going to the defendant's tracks to or
from the Yard. These crossings are controlled from a
tower on the Chicago & Alton's line. When cars of either
road seek to enter the Yard the tower man generally telephones to the yardmaster to find out whether he is in condition to receive them, and when cars are to go out the
yardmaster telephones to the tower man to know if they
can pass; but the yardmaster has no authority over the
tower man and his telephone either way is not conclusive
of the tower man's action. Conversely the tower man has
no authority over him.
The yardmaster's duties extend to the breaking up and
making up of trains, the prompt movement of cars, and
general charge of the Yard. The telephoning, although
a part of them, was an incidental part only, and a small
one. Twenty-four calls a day seems a too liberal estimate.
The messages were not orders, although they generally
would govern the decision of the tower man. His decision
was not obedience to any authority of or represented by
the yardmaster. The movements that the messages affected were not of the kind that require the greatest solicitude, even when they were train movements, which, of
course, was not always the case. The office hardly could
be described as 'continuously operated', when the yardmaster was not in it mdch more than half the time, but
was about the Yard attending to other things. Taking
all the facts into account we are of opinion that the employment of the yardmaster for more than nine hours was
not within the evil at which the statute was aimed and
that the ruling to the contrary was wrong.
Judgment reversed.

