354

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, the prohibition was partly withdrawn and much of that field was opened to such banks
by the Acts of December 22, 1913, c. 6, ยง 24, 38 Stat. 273,
and September 7, 1916, c. 461, 39 Stat. 754.
As the case now stands, we think no effect can be given
to what the state court assumes is the practice of banks
in rural portions of Iowa in making farm loans as agents
for their customers or others. If there be such a practice,'it is not a matter which may be noticed and given
effect without pleading or proof. If followed by some
banks, it may not be followed by others. The state court
does not speak of it as universal, but only as followed by
"many banks." Certainly the record gives no ground for
holding that the plaintiff follows it. In this situation the
allegation of competition stands unaffected by the assumed practice.
We conclude that the state law, when construed and
applied as authorizing the discrimination against the
bank's shares which is charged in the petition, is in that
regard in conflict with the restriction in the federal
statute.
Judgment reversed.

LIVE OAK WATER USERS' ASSOCIATION ET AL. V.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE AUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 73.

Argued October 22, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. A rate.-fixing order made by a commission acting under a state
statute is, for jurisdictional purposes in applying Jud. Code ยง 237,
as amended Sept. 6, 1916, an act of the legislature. P. 356.
2. A judgment of a state supreme court sustaining such an order
held not reviewable here by writ of error, under Jud. Code ยง 237, as
amended Sept. 6, 1916, where the constitutionality of the order
itself was not definitely drawn in question before the state court

LIVE OAK ASSN. v. R. R. COMM.
354

Opinion of the Court.

prior to a petition for rehearing which was denied without more.
P. 357.
3. In a case where the state court has decided a local question adequate to support its judgment without regard to federal questions,
the better practice in this Court, (generally at least) is to dismiss
the writ, rather than affirm the judgment. P. 359.
Writ Qf error to 192 Cal. 192, dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California sustaining upon review an order of the State Railroad Commission which increased the rates demandable
by a public service corporation for supplying water for
irrigation purposes. Plaintiffs in error were consumers
of the water and claimed that the order conflicted with
their rights under standing contracts with the company.
Mr. F. S. Brittain, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Carl I. Wheat, for defendant in error, Railroad
Commission of California.
Messrs. Isaac Frohman, Frank R. Devlin, and Douglas
Brookman for the defendant in error, Sutter Butte Canal

Company.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Sutter-Butte Canal Company, a public service corporation of California, has long supplied water for irrigation in the Sacramento Valley. Before 1913 plaintiffs in
error or their predecessors severally contracted with it for
water to be used during long terms on definitely described
parcels of land, at prices based upon their total areas at
specified rates per acre, whether actually consumed or
not. Payment of the stipulated sums was secured by
liens on the entire tracts; rights sc .?xquired were appurtenant to the land and constituted a servitude upon the
water. Other stipulations concerned lateral ditches, etc.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

etc. Those who held these agreements are referred to
as contract customers. Other parties-non-contract customers-were supplied and charged according to number
of acres actually irrigated from year to year.
In 1918 the Railroad Commission permitted a general
increase of rates but gave contract customers somewhat
lower ones than those prescribed for others. Thereafter
the company continued to demand and receive from all
contract customers yearly sums reckoned according to
entire acreage.
April 26, 1922, the Commission granted another increase of rates, again giving lower ones to contract customers. Plaintiffs in error obtained from the court below
a review of this order. Their petition therefor asked,
"that upon such review such order and decision of said
Railroad Commission be annulled and set aside insofar
as the same makes provision for the collection of rates
upon any acreage other than that upon which water may
be desired by these petitioners." That court first held
the challenged order produced unlawful inequalities between contract and non-contract customers, contrary to
the law of the State, and therefore should be set aside.
65 Cal. Dec. 69. Having granted a rehearing, it declared
the inequalities were not unreasonable and affirmed the
order. 192 Cal. 132.
The cause is here upon writ of error. Considering the
circumstances disclosed by the record, we have no jurisdiction unless it affirmatively appears that in the court
below there was duly drawn in question the validity of
a statute of or an authority exercised under the State
because of repugnance to the Constitution, treaties or
laws of the United States. Jud. Code ยง 237, as amended
Sept. 6, 1916. Under repeated rulings here, for jurisdictional purposes the order of the Commission must be
treated as though an Act of the Legislature. Lake Erie
& West. R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission
ex rel. Cameron, 249 U. S. 422, 424, and cases there cited.

LIVE OAK ASSN. v. R. R. COMM.
354

Opinion of the Court.

The brief for plaintiffs in error declares: "The plaintiffs
in error maintain that by the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California the obligations of their contracts have
been impaired, that their property has been taken without
due process of law, that they have been denied the equal
protection of the laws, and that the California court has
denied and renounced its power to protect the plaintiffs
in error in their claims of rights, privileges and immunities secured by the Constitution of the United States."
This statement shows no jurisdiction here under the writ
of error although it specifies a federal question justiciable
by certiorari. Something more than a claim of federal
right is necessary; the attack must be upon the validity
of the order, not merely upon the court's judgment.
The brief further states that by the application to the
Railroad Commission for rehearing and in the petition to
the Supreme Court of California for review, plaintiffs in
error set up their federal claims. No citations to the
record accompany this statement, as our rules require.
Rule 25, 2(c). A claim merely presented to the Commission upon application for rehearing would not suffice
to give us jurisdiction. It must have been definitely
brought to the court's attention. Although a copy of the
request for rehearing addressed to the Commission is
annexed to the petition to the Supreme Court, this petition made no claim under the federal Constitution with
sufficient definiteness for us to say that the court's attention was challenged thereto. Neither opinion of the court
shows that it considered or necessarily passed upon any
such question. After the second opinion a petition for
rehearing dwelt much on federal rights, but this was
denied without more and is now without consequence.
Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., 261 U. S. 114, 117.
Under the heading, " Authorities on Jurisdiction Relied
on by Petitioners on Rehearing (Addressed to the Chief

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of
California)," there are printed in the record before us
extracts from the written argument of counsel for the
Water Users' Association and others, wherein this
appears-"Three rights of the petitioners under the Constitution
of the United States are violated unless the order be annulled:
"(1) The obligations of their contracts are impaired
by a law passed after the contracts were made; (2) The
impairment of their contracts makes their lands subject to
a lien to which they never agreed, and requires of them
payment for the use of water not served, hence their
property is taken without due process of law; and (3) By
reason of the impairment of their contracts they are
classified as consumers upon no real distinction of the
character of the service, and know as citizens of the
United States they are denied the equal protection of the
laws."
In his brief here counsel for plaintiffs in error has not
relied upon the foregoing as sufficient to show that the
points there suggested were duly raised and presented to
the court below, and we are not aware of any rule of practice in that c(.art which permits such questions to be thus
raised in a proceeding upon certiorari.
In Zadig v Baldwin, 166 U. S.485, 488, here upon error
to the Supreme Court of, California, this court said: "The
contention that there was a federal question raised below
finds its only support in the fact that there has been
printed in the record, as filed in, this court, what purports to be an extract from the closing brief of counsel
presented to the Supreme Court of the State, in which
such a federal question is discussed, and it is asserted
orally at bar that in the- oral argument made in the Supreme Court of California a claim under the federal Constitution was presented. But, manifestly, the matters

LIVE OAK ASSN. v. R. R. COMM.
354

Opinion of the Court.

referred to form no "part of the record and are not adequate to create a federal question when no such question
was necessarily decided below, and the record does not
disclose that such issues were set up or claimed in any
proper manner in the courts of the State."
As we interpret its opinion and judgment the court below ruled only that, the order of the Commission fixed
rates to be charged, leaving all other questions subject to
determination by the courts. Counsel for the Commission affirmed this interpretation and at the bar agreed
that judgment here might rest thereon. In printed argument he said: "Except as to rates, the Commission did
not attempt (in fact, expressly disclaimed any attempt)
to change any of the provisions of these contracts, and the
effect of this rate order, as a matter of law, on those other
provisions-was left by the Commission for determination
by the courts as the occasion might arise." The decision
below upon this point of local law is enough to support
the judgment and leaves no federal question open for
our determination.
In cases where the state court has decided i local question adequate to support its judgment this court has
sometimes affirmed, and sometimes has dismissed the writ
of error. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 634-636;
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 370; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 610; Howat v. Kansas, 258
U. S. 181; Browne v. Union Pacific, 267 U. S. 255. We
have again considered the matter and have concluded
that, generally at least, it is better practice to dismiss.
The writ of error must be
Dismissed.

