PACIFIC FISHERIES v. ALASKA.

269

Argument for Petitioner.

PACIFIC AMERICAN FISHERIES v. ALASKA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 246. Argued November 24, 1925.-Decided December 7, 1925.
1. A graduated surtax on salmon canneries of five cents per case of
the product packed on all cases in excess of 10,000 and not more
than 25,000; ten cents per case on all from 25,000 to 40,000; fifteen
cents per case 'on all from 40,000 to 50,000; and twenty-five cents
per case on all in excess of 50,000, is within the taxing power conferred on the Alaska legislature by the Organic Act of August 24,
1912. P. 276.
2. This tax is not inconsistent with the provision of the Organic Act
that the authority therein granted to the legislature to alter,
modify and repeal laws in force in Alaska shall not extend to the
game, fish and fur seal laws; which is coupled with the proviso that
the restriction shall not operate to prevent the legislature from imposing other and additional taxes and licenses. P. 277.
3. Semble that the purpose of this restriction was to prevent the Territory from doing away with fish protection. Id.
4. In exercising its taxing power on canneries the legislature may consider collateral advantages of fish protection. Id.
5. The tax, by discriminating against large canneries in favor of small
ones, does not contravene the Fifth Amendment; since classification of taxes by the amount of the corpus taxed is valid when, as
here, the inequalities are based on intelligible grounds of policy.
P. 278.
2 Fed. (2d) 9, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming a judgment of the United States District
Court in Alaska, in favor of the Territory, in an action to
collect license taxes.,
Mr. Warren Gregory, with whom Messrs. E. S. McCord,
A. E. Robertson, H. L. Faulkner and Blair S. Shuman
were on the brief, for petitioner.
The additional tax is a regulation of the catching of
salmon, and therefore violative of the proviso in § 3 of

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

269 U. S.

the Organic Act of Alaska. By this' proviso Congress
made it clear that it intended to retain jurisdiction over
the excepted matters among which are the laws relating
to fish. The Act of June 26, 1906, for the protection and
regulation of the salmon fisheries of Alaska, (34 Stat.
478), was in full force when the Legislature passed the
law now. attacked. Auk Bay Salmon Canning Co. v.
United States, 300 Fed. 907.
The regulatory character of the Act is shown by the following characteristics:
(a) A tax which is imposed in good faith as a revenue
measure is never graduated upward as is this tax, and
furthermore is based upon profits or income net or gross
as is the Federal Income Tax. The tax, of course, does
not fall upon a fishery, saltery, etc., simply as property
or as an ad valorem tax, nor could it do so, nor would
such a tax be valid, since it would not be based upon.
anyvaluation of such properties. It falls upon the person
who conducts these plants. Assuming tliat the tax may
properly differentiate as between these general classes, it
must nevertheless bear equally upon all within a particular class. In the case of the fisheries alone is a second
classification attempted; based, not upon the character
or amount of the business done, but upon the number of
canneries where the business is carried on. , The inequality which bears upon salmon canners packing the same
character of fish is demonstrable from the terms of the
Act. This portion of the Act attempts to discriminate
between a large cannery and a small one through the
method of a graduated volume tax. The larger the pack
in any one cannery, the higher the additional tax. Only
one conclusion can be reached from this change in the
legislative method. The Legislature was not by this
additional tax trying to raise money; it was trying to stop
the industry, or at least to regulate it.
(b) The tax on fish traps, found in subdivision h, had
the same effect.

PACIFIC FISHERIES v. ALASKA.
269

Argument for Petitioner.

(c) At the same session, and on the preceding day,
the Legislature passed a law attempting to establish a
closed season for salmon in Alaska for a period of approximately twenty days during each summer. This act was
considered in the Auk Bay Case, 300 Fed. 907, and declared invalid.
(d) The exemption of chums (subd. f) from the surtax
is also significant. It is clear that the Legislature regarded chums as being a less valuable fish than the varieties subjected to the surtax, and less subject to extermination, and that therefore no additional restrictions upon
their catch were necessary.
(e) The act requires each cannery to pay 1% of its net
annual income, no allowance being made for income derived from activities of the, company without Alaska. It
is significant that no industry other than mining is required by the statute to pay any sort of an income tax
directly or indirectly.
(f) The revenue raised by this statute alone is grossly
in excess of the needs of the Territory. As this case comes
up upon demurrer to the answer, all of the allegations of
the answer in that regard must be taken as true. That
the excessiveness of revenue obtained from the operation
of a statute is to be considered in determining its constitutionality was held in Commonwealth v. Alden Coal Co.,
251 Pa. 134.
(g) All of the circumstances connected with this case
tend to show that the Legislature intended to prohibit
and to penalize rather than to tax for revenue. Elmer v.
Wallace, 275 Fed. 86. Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S.
44, is distinguishable; and any intimations contained in it
with regard to the unimportance of the intent of the Legislature in passing an act must be regarded as having -been
overruled by Bailey v. Drexel FurnitureCo., 259 U. S. 20;
distinguishing Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, and
McCray v. UnitedStates, 195 U. S. 27. See Alaska Pacific

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner

269 U. S.

Fisheries v. Territory of Alaska, 236 Fed. 52. That the
court must look behind the form and language of tax
statutes when deciding as to their validity see further:
St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas,'235 U. S. 350; Collins v.
New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30.
The question involved herein has not been decided
either expressly or impliedly by previous decisions.
Alaska Pacific Fisheries v. Territory of Alaska, supra;
Alaska Salmon Co. v. Territory of Alaska, 236 Fed. 62;
Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, supra;Haavik v. Alaska Packers
Assn., 263 U. S. 510; Auk Bay Salmon Caning Co. v.
United States, 300 Fed. 907.
The classification upon which the surtax is based is
arbitrary and unreasonable and opposed to the due process
clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540. It does not
bear. equally upon all members of the same class, viz.,
"fisheries." Police control over the industry having been
expressly withheld, tax classification must rest upon some
reasonable basis of distinction. This distinction must be
grounded upon revenue. From a revenue standpoint it
is immaterial whether salmon be packed in one cannery or
in twenty. On the right to create inequalities in taxation
by artificial classification, see: Cotting v. Kansas City
Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33; State ex rel. Wyatt v. Ashbrook, 154 Mo. 375; City
of Los Angeles v. Lankershim, 160 Cal. 800; In re Dees,
46 Cal. App. 656, 660, 661; Fiscal Court v. F. & A. Cox
Co., 132 Ky. 738; Ex parte Franks, 52 Cal. 606; Ex parte
Richardson, 170 Cal. 68; City of Seattle v. Dencker,-58
Wash. 501.
In 'Rast v. Van Deman, 240 U. S. 342, and Tanner v.
Little, 240 U. S. 369, the classification was sustained upon
the power of regulation vested in the 'state legislature.

PACIFIC FISHERIES v. ALASKA.
269

273

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. John Rustgard, Attorney General of Alaska, for
respondent.
The limitation imposed by § 3 of the Organic Act is
one of several affecting the broad legislative power conferred by § 9. The federal fish laws in question, being in
their nature purely restrictive, can be "modified, altered or
amended," or otherwise interfered with, only by relaxing
them, or hampering their enforcement. No attempt has
been made to do so. Additional restrictions cannot be said
to relax, or conflict with, prior restrictions. Alaska Fish
Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, is a clear pronouncement that
the Legislature of Alaska has authority to use its taxing
power not only to limit fishing but to stop it. Why, then,
may not the same power be employed in the same manner
to limit or regulate canning? In a still more recent case
(Haavik v. Alaska Packers Assn., 263 U. S. 510), this
Court held that in the exercise of its taxing power the
Legislature had authority to discriminate against nonresident fishermen and in favor of resideirt fishermen.
Conservation of the fisheries was the sole purpose of
Congress in withholding from the Legislature the right
to repeal or modify the fishing restrictions in force at the
time the Organic Act was passed. The federal fish laws
merely represent the most liberal terms on which Congress would permit fishing in Alaska waters; the local
Legislature was at liberty to enact as many more restrictions as it found necessary for the perpetuation of the
Territory's main industry. If the language employed be
insufficient to dispel all doubt on this subject, the debate
on the floor of the House, when the clause in § 3 of the
Organic Act was under discussion, is surely ample for
that purpose. This dual authority is no novelty in our
system of government. It permeates nearly all of our institutions and has become recognized as salutary wherever
practically available. The principle is seen in the mining

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

269 U. S.

laws; the use and occupancy of public lands, McKelvey v.
United States, 260 U. S. 353; in interstate commerce regulations, Carey v. South Dakota, 250'U. S. 118; Savage v.
James, 225 U. S. 501; regulations of migratory birds,
Carey v. South Dakota, supra; inspection laws, Savage v.
James, supra. See Northern P. R. Co. v. North Dakota,
250 U. S. 135. So, under the Eighteenth Amendment.
Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania, 258 U. S. 403; Kennedy v.
United States, 265 U S. 344; Hixson v. Oakes, 265
U. S. 254.
Section 9 of the Organic Act also, by reference, incorporates the Act of July 30, 1886 (24 Stat. 170, c. 818),
into the limitations imposed upon the legislative powers.
That act provides, inter alia, that the Legislature "shall
not pass local or special laws in any of the following cases,
that is to say: . . . The protection of game and fish."
Ordinarily no one would deny that this is a recognition of
the'authority to protect game and fish so long as the laws
enacted for that purpose are general and not local.
The Act of June 6, 1924, was h reasonably clear recognition by Congress that the Legislature had some regulatory authority over fisheries, that a dual authority over
the subject did exist, and that this dual authority was
designed to be continued in the future. The new fish law
for Alaska is not essentially different in principle from
the Migratory Bird Law of Congress. Both place the
authority to prescribe regulations in the Department of
Commerce and neither denies to States or Territory power
to add further restrictions.
Regulation of canning is not regulation of fishing.
There is certainly nothing in the statutes to indicate that
it was the intent of Congress to deny to the Territory full
police authority over the shore industries, whether the
same be dependent upon the fish in the ocean, or otherwise.
If the police jurisdiction exists, the objection to the
present excise tax on the ground that it is regulatory

PACIFIC FISHERIES v. ALASKA.
269

275

Opinion of the Court.

must fall; for the police power may be exercised through
the taxing power. Hammond Packg. Co. v. Montana, 233
U. S. 331. The classification by amount is not repugnant
to the Fifth Amendment. Brushaberv. Union P. R. Co.,
240 U. S. 1; McG'ray v. United States,, 195 U. S. 27;
Spreckles Sugar Ref. Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; Clark
v. Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
82; Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 108; Patten v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608; Magoun v. Ill. Trust & Say. Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Maxwell v.
Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525. The purpose of the tax is not a
matter for the courts. Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255
U. S. 44; Rast v. Van Deman & L. Co., 240 U. S. 342;
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, supra; McCray v. United States,
supra; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra; United States v.
Doremus, 249 U. S. 86.
The purpose of the members of the Legislature in enacting a statute is not a question of fact which, upon issues
joined, must be tried before and passed upon by a jury.
A demurrer to an immaterial or frivolous allegation does
not render it either material or pertinent. The statute
must be left to speak for itself.
The grading of the tax so as apparently to fall heavier
upon the owner of a cannery producing a large pack than
upon the owner of one producing a small pack is just, and
fair, and reasonable.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit by the Territory of Alaska to recover from
the petitioner, Pacific American Fisheries, license taxes
alleged to be due Upon cases of salmon packed by the defendant at four canneries named. The defendant, in its
answer set up that the territorial taxing act was contrary
to the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, c. 387, (§ 3,)
37 Stat. 512, creating a legislative assembly in the Territory of Alaska, and to the Constitution of the United

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

States. The Territory demurred; there was a judgment
for the plaintiff and this was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 2 Fed. (2d) 9. A writ of certiorari was
granted by this Court. 267 U. S. 589.
The taxes in question were imposed by c. 101, § 2, subdivision 8th, Laws of Alaska, 1923, amending c. 31 of the
Laws of 1921. By (c) of that subdivision salmon canneries, after a tax by (b) of ten cents per case, are charged
an additional tax on a pack of kings, reds and sockeyes,
counted together, at any one cannery, as follows: On all
cases in excess of ten thousand and not more than twentyfive thousand, five cents per case; in excess of twenty-five
thousand and not more than forty thousand, ten cents per
case; in excess of forty thousand and not more than fifty
thousand, fifteen cents per case; and on all in excess of
fifty thousand, twenty cents per case. Similarly in (d)
and (e) a tax of four and one-half cents per case is imposed on medium reds, cohoes, and pinks; with additional
taxes for each increase of numbers as in the previous subdivision. By (f) chums are taxed three cents per case.
The petitioner says that this graduated tax is inconsistent with the Act of Congress mentioned, which provides
that the authority therein granted to alter, amend, modify
and repeal laws in force in Alaska should not extend to
the game, fish and fur seal laws, and presses this contention nothwithstanding the further proviso that this provision, shall not operate to prevent the legislature from
imposing other and additional taxes or licenses. The
petitioner also says that the classification upon which
the surtax is based is unreasonable and a denial of due
process of law, contrary to the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. No question is raised
about the uniform tax of ten cents per case imposed
by (b). That has been paid.
The petitioner offers various reasons to show that this
tax is not what it purports to be but is an'attempt to regu-

PACIFIC FISHERIES v. ALASKA.
269

277

,Opinion of the Court.

late fisheries, which, the petitioner believes, Congress has
not given the Territory power to regulate. The answer
alleges that it was knowff that the revenue from these
taxes would exceed the appropriations and needs of the
Territory, and from this and other things the conclusion
is drawn that the taxes were levied with the intent of
driving the defendant out of its business. But the premise
could not be known, it only could be prophesied. If
known the conclusion as to legislative intent would not
follow; and if the intent were entertained, in the only
sense in which it rationally could be imputed, that is, to
discourage canning the larger amounts, the legislature lawfully might act with that intent. Fisheries were not the
direct obj.ect of attack, but canneries. It would require
a strong case in any event to invalidate a tax on things
that the legislature had power to regulate because of its
collateral. reaction on something else. But here even as
to fisheries the legislature is given power to tax. Any tax
is a discouragement and therefore a regulation so far as it
goes, and the most plausible reconciliation of this power
with the restrictions upon amending or modifying the
laws in force is that the only purpose of the restrictions
was to prevent the Territory from doing away with all
protection, in a shortsighted rush for fish. At least we
must take it to be clear that the unlimited power expressly given may be exercised with consideration of collateral advantages and disadvantages. Alaska Fish, Etc.
Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48. It could not be exercised,
intelligently otherwise. The extent of the power is a
question of specific interpretation not of general principle;
and therefore we leave the many familiar cases that were
cited, on one side.
It is not unworthy of notice that in 9 of the Act of
August 24, 1912, an earlier statute of July 30, 1886, c. 818,
§ 1, 24 Stat. 170, is taken up, in which the power of the
territorial legislatures to pass laws for the protection of

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

game and fish is recognized, and also that the latest revision of the fish law by Congress was passed after the
present tax law had been enacted and had been upheld
by the District Court; that it provided that nothing
therein contained should curtail the powers of the Territorial Legislature of Alaska, and that it showed no sign
of dissatisfaction with the way in which those powers had
been used. Act of June 6, 1924, c. 272, § 8; 43 Stat. 464,
467.
It is much pressed that the tax discriminates against
large canneries in favor of small ones--this especially as
contravening the Fifth Amendment and denying due
process of law. Classification of taxes by the amount of
the corpus taxed has been sustained in various connections
heretofore. By way of specific snswer it is pointed out
by the Attorney General of Alaska that the size of the run
of salmon cannot be foreseen; that a cannery must be
prepared to its full capacity; that there always will be an
irreducible minimum of expense to be borne whatever the
size of the pack; that therefore a small pack may mean a
loss and a larger one a profit, and that on these considerations the law justly may attempt to proportion the tax to
the probable gains. The inequalities of the tax are based
upon intelligible grounds of policy and cannot be said to
deny the petitioner its constitutional rights.
Judgment affirmed.
HENDERSON WATER COMPANY v. CORPORATION COMMISSION OF NORTH CAROLINA
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 249. Argued November 18, 1925.-Decided December 14, 1925.
Where a water company, bound to maximum rates by its contract
with a city, applied to a state commission and secured an order

