WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP. 283
Syllabus.

WHITE, TREASURER,

ET AL.
V. MECHANICS
SECURITIES CORPORATION.

UNITED STATES v. SECURITIES CORPORATION

GENERAL.
WHITE, TREASURER, ET AL. v. SECURITIES CORPORATION GENERAL.

UNITED STATES v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
HICKS, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.

v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
YORK.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

HICKS, ALIEN* PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET

AL. V.

MERCANTILE TRUST COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. MERCANTILE TRUST COM-

PANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 423, 424,1 425,1 430, 431, 809, 810. Argued December 1, 2,
l25.&-Decided December 14, 1925.
1. Under Jud. Code § 240, as amende4 by the Act of Feb. 13, 1925,
a case pending undecided in the Circuit Court of Appeals on appeal
from a decree of the District Court may be brought to this Court
by certiorari. P. 299.
I By stipulation of counsel it was agreed that the disposition of
the following cases: No. 427, White, Treasurer, et al. v. Borland,
Trustee; No. 42g, White, Treasurer et al. v. Stralem et al.; No. 433;
White, Treasurer,et al. v. American National Bank of St. Paul; No.
435, White, Treasurer, et al. v. Hilken; No. 437, White, Treasurer,
et al. v. Garbat; No. 439, White, Treasurer, et al. v. Thalman; No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

2. Under § 9 of the -Trading with the Enemy Act, a suit may be
maintained by private parties against the Alien Property Custodian
and the Treasurer of the United States to collect notes of the late
Imperial German Government out of its funds seized by the Custodian, without making the present German Government a party.
P. 00.
3. The disposition made of such enemy funds by the Trading with
the Enemy Act was within the powers of Congress, recognized by
our Treaty with Germany ending the war. Id.
4. By the Trading with the Enemy Act the United States with respect to funds of an enemy government seized by the Alien Property Custodian assumed the position of trustee for the benefit of
claimants, and renounced its power to assert a claim of its own,
except on the same footing and in the same way as others, if at A
P. 301.
5. Admissions made under oath by the Alien Property Custodian and
the Treasurer of the United States in their answer in a suit against
them under the Trading with the Enemy Act, to the effect that
funds seized by the former and deposited with the latter belonged
to the Imperial German Government, are evidence against them
in that and in other like cases. P. 301.
6. Such admissions are conclusive in the case in which made, in the
absence of other evidence to the contrary; and their force as evidence does not depend upon the authority of the Custodian to determine the fact admitted. Id.
4 Fed. (2d) 619, 624, affirmed.

OF the above entitled causes, Nos. 423, 425 and 431
were appeals from decrees of the Court of Appeals of the
441, White, Treasurer, et al. v. Republic Trading Company;
No. 443, White, Treasurer, et al. v. Kaufman, and No. 445,
White, Treasurer, et al. v. Hecksher should abide the decision announced by the Court in No. 425, White, Treasurer, et al. v.
Securities Corporation General, and that the disposition of the following cases: No. 426, United States v. Borland, Trustee; No. 428,
United States v. Stralem et al.; No. 432, United States v. American
National Bank of St. Paul; No. 434, United States v. Hilken; No.
436, United States v. Garbat, No. 438, United States v. Thalman; No.
440, United States v. Republic Trading Company; No. 442, United.
States V. Kaufman; and No. 444, United States v. Hecksher, should
abide the decision announced by the Court in NO 424, United States
v. Securities Corporation General.

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

285

Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

District of Columbia affirming decrees rendered by the
Sunreme Court of the District in three suits brought
under § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, sustaining
the plaintiffs' claims and directing the Treasurer of the
United States to pay the respective amounts found due,
with interest; Nos. 424 and 430 were appeals from decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District dismissing
appeals taken by the United States from orders entered
by the Supreme Court of the District striking out suggestions filed on behalf of the United States in causes Nos.
425 and 431; Nos. 809 and 810 were writs of certiorari
issued for the purpose of reviewing a decree of the District
Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, awarding like
relief to another claimant under the Act, and' overruling
suggestions filed on behalf of the United States. The
certiorari was directed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
before which appeals from the last mentioned decree were
awaiting argument.
Mr. Dean Hill Stanley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and
Assistant Attorney General Letts were on the briefs, for
appellants and petitioners.
Appeal lies to this Court from the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia in suits under the Trading with
the Enemy Act. Behn, Meyer & Co., Ltd. v. Miller, 266
U. S. 457; Banco Mexicano V. Miller, 263 U. S. 591; Swiss
National Ins. Co. Ltd. v. Miller, 267 U. S. 42; Compagnie
Internationale de Produits, etc. v. Miller, 266 U. S. 473.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and
the District Court in Missouri, were without jurisdiction,
because the suits involved adjudication as to the conduct
and obligations of a foreign sovereign. A sovereign can
not be sued in its own courts or in the courts of any other
sovereign without its consent. Beers v. State of Arkansas, 20 How. 527. Nor can an affirmative judgment be

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

269 U. S.

awarded by the courts of the United. States against a
foreign sovereign in a case where the sovereign has instituted a suit in its own name in courts in the United
States. French Republic v. Inland Navigation Co., 263
Fed. 410. Nor are the funds of a foreign sovereign on
deposit in the United States subject to attachment, Kingdom of Roumania'v. Guaranty Trust Co., 250 Fed. 341;
Hassardv. United States of Mexico, 29 Misc. 511; 46 App.
Div. 623 and 173 N. Y. 645. Nor will a process in admiralty issue against a vessel which is the property of a
foreign sovereign, even though the sovereign is engaging
in commerce. The Maipo, 252 Fed. 627; The Adriatic,
258 Fed. 902; Molina v. Comision Reguladora del Necardo de Henequen, 92 N. J. L. 38; Underhill v. Hernandez, 168 U. S. 250; Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246
U. S. 297; American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co,., 213
U. S. 347; Ricaud v. American Metal Co., 246 U. S. 304.
The suits provided for under § 9 of the Trading with
the Enemy Act are suits of individuals against individual
debtors, and Congress did not contemplate when § 9 was
passed that it should apply to suits upon the debts of a
government. But even assuming that Congress intended
to permit- suit against an enemy government, to that
extent § 9 is unconstitutional. Claims against a foreign
sovereign by a citizen of the United States are subject
only to diplomatic negotiations even though the United
States may be at war with the foreign state. Congress
can not invest the courts with authority to pass judicially
upon political questions. See Hayburn's case, 2 Dall.
410, and note on 409; United States v. Ferreira,13 How.
39; United States v. Todd, 13 How. 51, note; Gordon v.
United States, 117 U. S. 697; Ex parte Riebeling, 70 Fed.
310; Ex parte Gans, 17 Fed. 471; United States v. Queen,
105 Fed. 269; United States v. Hay, 20 App. D. C. 576.
The act of the sovereign in these cases was essentially an
act by the sovereign- in its sovereign character. See

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

287

Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

Twycross v. Dreyfus, 36 L. T. R. 752; Wulfsohn v. Russian Socialist Federated Soviet Republic, 234 N. Y. 372.
There is no evidence to prove that there is in the
Treasury any money which, at the time of seizure, belonged to the Imperial German Government, or that the
Alien Property Custodian has in his possession property
out of which the claims of the appellees may be paid.
The Custodian is the official, by delegation from the
President, who seizes both money and property. Whenever he seized money he was under a mandatory duty to
deposit it in the Treasury. This relieved him of all duty
and authority with respect to such money. Not only is
the money removed from the control of the Custodian,
but he has nothing to say with respect to the manner of
investment of the funds. This investment is to be made
by the Secretary of the Treasury, who in turn is to be
controlled by rules and regulations made by the President.
Furthermore, the time of the sale of these securities after
the end of the war is to be decided by the President, for
the Act provides that as soon after the end of the war as
the President shall deem practicable such securities shall
be sold and the proceeds deposited in the Treasury. It
is difficult to understand how Congress could have more
completely removed the control and handling of money
from the jurisdiction of the Custodian. See Max Henkels
v. Miller, as Alien Property Custodian, 4 Fed. (2d) 988.
A determination by the Custodian ag to any money
deposited in the Treasury pursuant to the Act is of no
greater effect than a determination by a private citizen
and has no evidentiary value with respect to the ownership of the money at the time of seizure. Once having'
secured possession of the money his right to make determinations with respect to it ceased, and all he could do
was to deposit it in the Treasury. Thereafter any determination as to title could be made only by the President

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

269 U. S.

acting under § 9 of the Act, or by a court acting under
the same Act, or by Congress, which reserved to itself
under § 12 of the Act the right to settle claims of enemies
to the money. The determination by the Custodian of
ownership is merely made for the purpose of securing
possession of the property to the Custodian. Central
Union Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554. See also
Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S. 239, and Commercial Trust
Co. v. Miller, 262 U. S. 51, and numerous other cases.
There was no evidence to show the actual ownership of
the money by the Imperial German Government at the
time of seizure. To prove ownership the claimants
relied entirely upon the allegations in an answer in
another suit against the same defendants, to the effect
that the Custodian, after he had seized the money as
that of an "Unknown Enemy" and deposited it in the
Treasury of the United States in accordance with the
provisions of § 12, attempted to determine the money
to be the money of the Imperial German Government.
The United States may assert its rights by means of a
suggestion to the court by the Attorney General. In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.
338, Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413; The
Exchange, 7 Cranch 116; United States v. Lee, 106U. S.
196; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508.
The United States is a "person" within the meaning
of § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, and is therefore a proper claimant under that section. The United
States is both a body politic and a corporation. See
United States v. Maurice, 26 Fed. Cas. 1211; United States
v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 115; Dixon v. United States, 1 Brock.
177; Res Publica v. Sweers, 1 Dall. 41. The suggestion
alleges an indebtedness owing to the United States from
Germany prior to October 6, 1917. It also alleges the
filing of a notice of claim as provided by the Act. The
United States is, therefore, entitled to have its claims

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

289

Argument for Appellee in Nos. 423, 424, 425.

adjudicated in these proceedings, since it is the holder of
the money. A suit against the Custodian under § 9 for
the collection of a debt is in substance a suit against the
United States. Banco Mexicano v. Miller, 263 U. S. 591.
The United States being in substance, therefore, the possessor of the money out of which plaintiffs seek to secure
the payment of the debt, may properly assert its claim
against the money by means of a suggestion. Assuming
that the United States is not a claimant under § 9, it is
nevertheless entitled in this proceeding to assert its rights
and to have them passed upon. It is a general principle
that the United States is not affected by any provision of
a statute with respect to its claims, unless it is specifically
mentioned in the statute. Dollar Savings Bank v. United
States, 18 Wall. 227; Guaranty Co. v. Title Guaranty Co.,
224 U. S. 152; United States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251;
Lewis, Trustee v. United States, 92 U. S. 618.
The Custodian and the Treasurer, as officers of the
United States, may assert the claims of the United States
against funds in the Treasury, out of which the claimant
in a suit under § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act.
also seeks to recover. Banco Mexicano v. Miller, 263 U. S.
591; Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243.
Mr. M. Carter Hall, with whom Mr. C. C. Carlin was
on the brief, for appellee, in Nos. 423, 424 and 425.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia was
expressly given jurisdiction of these suits by § 9 of the
Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, and the decrees
complained of do not. infringe upon the sovereign rights
of the Imperial German Government, or its successor.
Under its constitutional war power, Congress has the
full and unrestricted right to seize and confiscate enemy
property. Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch 110; Miller
v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Herrerav. United States,
222 U. S. 558. Having the greater power to confiscate

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellee in Nos. 423, 424, 425.

269 U. S.

this money, it also had the lesser power to appropriate it

for the payment of debts due by the German Government
to American citizens.
The primary purpose of the Trading with the Enemy
Act was to seize enemy property in order to prevent its
use against the United States. One of its secondary

purposes was to provide for the payment of debts due
from enemies to American citizens, before the termination
of the war. Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243; Koscinski
v. White, Treas., 286 Fed. 215. The Trading with the
Enemy Act makes no distinction between enemy governments and enemy individuals. It does not make any
difference between the German Government and the

German nationals. In fact, in order that there should
be no doubt upon the subject, in §2, subsec. (b), Congress
specifically defined the word "enemy" as including "the
government of any nation with which the United States

is at war, or any political or municipal subdivision
thereof, or any officer, official, or agent thereof." In
arguing that this Court should read into § 9 an exception
as to debts due American citizens by enemy governments,
which finds no support in the language of or reasons for
the Act, appellants are questioning the propriety of the
enactment. Oetjen v. Central Leather Co., 246 U. S. 302.
These suits are not in any real sense suits against the
Imperial German Government, and do not involve an
adjudication of rights or obligations of a foreign sovereign
in contravention of established principles of international
law. Neither the German Government nor German nationals have any rights in the property or money seized
under the war power, except such as may be granted by
Congress. The belligerent determines how far it will exercise the right of confiscation. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch

272; Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch 111; United States
v. Alexander, 2 Wall. 404; United States v. Padelford, 9
Wall. 531; Sprott v. United States, 20 Wall. 459; Haycraft

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

291

Argument for Appellee in Nos. 423, 424, 425.

v. United States, 22 Wall. 81; Lamar v. Browne, 92 U. S.
187; Young v. United States, 97 U. S. 39; Hijo Case, 194
U. S. 315; Herrera Case, 222 U. S. 558. The German
Government itself, which has not intervened to assert its
rights, is the only party that would be in a position to
take advantage of the alleged unconstitutionality. Not
only has it failed to do this, but, by the terms of the
Treaty of Peace with the United States it has expressly
consented that all of its property in the hands of the
Alien Property Custodian may be. disposed of in accordance with the laws of the United States in effect on November 11, 1921, the date of the ratification of the Treaty.
The~solemn admissions of the sworn answer of the appellant, Miller, as Custodian, of the facts found by him
and his resulting determination of enemy ownership in
the Imperial German Government and of the appellant,
White, as Treasurer, of the facts with respect to the record
entries on the books of the Treasury in the name of the Imperial German Government, all as set forth in the answer in
the Mechanics Securities Corporation case, are conclusive.
The determination of enemy ownership by the Custodian is an "exercise of governmental power." Such
a determination, after investigation, has all -the force and
effect of an executive order of the President. No one other
than a person filing claims under § 9, and certainly no
enemy or ally of enemy, can dispute his determination.
Subject to the will of Congress, and subject to the rights
of claimants under § 9, the Custodian holds absolute title
to the money and property seized by him. It will. be
noted that § 7 (c), as amended, authorizes the seizure of
enemy property "which the President, after investigation,
shall determine is so owing or is so held." Section 9 (a)
authorizes the restoration of property or payment of
money upon application to the President "to which the
President shall determine said claimant is entitled." By
Executive Orders the President delegated his power under

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellee in Nos. 423, 424, 425.

269 U. S.

§ 7 (c) and § 9 (a). The determination by the President,
through the Attorney General, of the interest of a claimant under § 9 (a), is an act of no greater formality than
his determination of enemy ownership through the Alien
Property Custodian under § 7 (c), and yet his power to
order the payment of debts without proof of enemy
ownership by any of the claimants has never been questioned. The determination of the President, as well as
the determination of the court, is binding on all enemies,
or allies of enemies, whose money or property has been
seized, regardless of the fact of ultimate ownership as between enemies. The determination of enemy ownership
by the President, acting through the Custodian, operates
to vest absolute title in the Custodian, and is final as
against every one, except claimants under § 9. Central
Union Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554; Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U: S. 239; Munich Reinsurance Co. v. First
Reinsurance Co. 300 Fed. 345;- Siggfehr v. Miller, 285
Fed. 953; Garvan v. Bonds, 265 Fed. 477.
Any person having any claim against property or funds
in the hands of the Custodian must pursue his rights
under § 9 of the Act, which is the only section providing
for recovery of property or payment of debts. Central
Union Trust Co. v. Garvan,supra; Commercial Trust Co,
v. Miller, 262 U. S. 51; Ahrenfeldt v. Miller, 262 U. S. 60;
United States Trust Co. v. Miller, 262 U. S. 58. Unless
it can be fairly said that Congress intended the United
States to be a claimant under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, it follows that it can assert no claim to these funds.
While it may be conceded that the United States is a
"body politic" in a limited sense, only by the most artificial process of reasoning can the conclusion be reached
that Congress intended the United States to be a
"p son" within the meaning of § 9 of the Act. When
Congress passed the Trading' with the Enemy Act, it
waived the sovereign privilege of taking this enemy prop-

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

293

Argument for Respondent in Nos. 809, 810.

erty absolutely. After having declined to take it for
itself as it had the power to do, to say that the United
States can or should file claims against German Government property in the same manner as individual creditors,
makes the entire Act meaningless. Had our Government
intended to confiscate this fund, it would never have enacted that part of § 9 of the Act relevant to this proceeding, because the effect of this section is to give to individual creditors, complying with the requirements of § 9,
rights against the funds belonging to,Germany prior to
any rights of the United States.
As to the Government's contention that § 9, if construed to apply to the payment of debts due American
citizens out of property of the Imperial German Government, would be unconstitutional, the Court's attention is
directed to the provisions of the Treaty of Peace between
the United States and Germany, which appear to conclusively dispose of this question, as well as of the claims
of the United States as made herein. By the terms of
the Treaty of Peace between Germany and the United
States, but also by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles
adopted and incorporated therein by reference, Germany
expressly relinquished the right to raise any question with
respect to the disposition of any property of the German
Government which had been seized by the United States
during the War.
*Mr. Samuel W. Fordyce, with whom Messrs. John H.
Holliday and Thomas W. White were on the brief, for respondent, in Nos. 809 and 810.
The District Court had jurisdiction by the express terms
of § 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act. The act is not
unconstitutional, and the decree does not infringe on the
soveregn rights of the German Imperial Government or
its successor.
I The District Court found as a fact that there are now in
the Treasury of the United States funds which, at the time

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent in Nos. 809, 810.

269 U. S.

of seizure by the Alien Property Custodian, belonged to the
Imperial German Government. This finding of fact, being
based on evidence, should not be disturbed by this Court,
especially so .because the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia and the Court of Appeals for said District
have found the same fact, and under the two-court itule
adopted by this Court such finding is binding upon this
Court. The United States and its officers are bound and
estopped by the sworn statement in the suggestion of the
United States that the funds belonged to Germany"; the
suggestion and exhibits attached not only claimed the
fund as having belonged to Germany, but also stated,
under oath, that the funds actually had belonged to
Germany. This suggestion was sworn to only a few days
before the trial and is sufficient evidence in itself, without
all the other evidence, upon which to base the judgment
below. The evidence as to the fact of former German
ownership of the funds was competent and conclusive, and
there was no evidence to the contrary. The motion to
dismiss and the original answer are both competent evidence against the defendants on the authority of Pope v.
Allis, 115 U. S. 363, and C. & N. R. R. v. Ohle, 117 U. S.
123. The United States is bound by the admissions of
its attorneys with like effect, as other litigants, Kaelin
and Sons v. United States, 290 Fed. 242. Admissions of
attorneys are grounds for the court's procedure equally
as if established by the clearest proof. Under this principle, the briefs of counsel are admissible, not only as
admissions, but as explanations of the clients' admission
in the pleadings and to show knowledge of the facts
admitted. Tevis v. Ryan, 13 Ariz. 120, affd. 233 U. S.
273; A. T. & S. F. Ry. v. Sullivan, 173 Fed. 456 (C..C. A;
James v. Railway Co., 201 Mass. 203; Scaife v. Land Co.,
90 Fed. 238; Ililliard v. Lyons, 180 Fed. 685; Lyster v.
Stickney, 12 Fed. 609. Even though it is contended that
the Alien Property Custodian had no authority to make

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

295

Argument for Appellee in Nos. 430, 431.

a specific determination of ownership. pleaded in the original answer, his conclusions and determination amount to
beliefs or statements of a party on information and belief,
and are, therefore, binding upon the defendants. C. & N.
R. R. v. Ohle, 117 U. S. 123; 2 Foster Fed. Practice, 6th
Ed. § 330.
The funds in question have been in custodia legis since
the actual filing of this suit, and their status cannot be
changed except by court action. Heidritter v. Elizabeth
Co., 112 U. S. 294; Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S.
554, Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; Farmers Loan &
Trust Co. v. Railroad Co., 177 U. S. 51(; Kosainski v.
White, 286 Fed. 211; Sigg-Fehr v. White, 285 Fed. 949,
32 Op. A. G. 57:
Upon the seizure of the funds, title passed to the United
States, subject to the provisions of the Trading with the
Enemy Act, as amended; and by that Act the United
States, as a belligerent, is not authorized to set up any
claim to the fur~ds, nor has the United States as a creditor
of Germany a right to set up any claim as a defense to
this suit.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Messrs. Winthrop W. Aldrich, John Spalding Flannery and G. Bowdoin Craighill were on the brief, for appellee, in Nos. 430
and 431.
The Supreme Court of the District clearly had jurisdiction, but the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals to
review the decrees may seriously be doubted. The cases
did not come within the general powers of the Supreme
Court defined in § 61 of the District Code of Law, but
were special and peculiar. Section 226 of that Code, as
to appeals, though broadly couched, does not apply in
such special cases. There must be special statutory warrant for an appeal, District of Columbia v. Prospect Hill
Cemetery, 5 App. D. C. 497; Brightwood Railway v.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellee in Nos. 430, 431.

269 U. S.

O'Neal, 10 App. D. C. 205; Bankers Surety Co. v. Security
Trust Co., 39 App. D. C. 354. Again, the statutory right
of appeal to that court vouchsafed by § 226 of the District Code is limited to "Any party aggrieved by any final
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia." Thus the very words of the statute would
seem quite clearly to make an end of the so-called appeal
by the United States in case 430 and other similar cases,
for the United States was not a party in any sense or aspect of the case in the court below, and it never at any
time sought to have itself made a party by intervention or
otherwise. And neither Miller nor White was a party
"aggrieved" by the payment to or seizure by the Alien
Property Custodian, that officer having acquired no interest in the money or property itself other than as a
simple bailee, subject to the order of the President or of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, it being
provided in the statute itself that upon the establishment
by claimant of the interest, title or debt claimed by him
"the court shall order the payment . . . or delivery
to said claimant of the money or other property so held
by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of
the United States, or the interest therein to which the
court shall determine said claimant is entitled." When
the court, acting within the sphere of its jurisdiction as
prescribed by the statute, has spoken, the Custodian and
the Treasurer have no option but to submit to its decree.
See Barksdale v. Morgan, 34 App. D. C. 549.
If appeals from the orders and decrees of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to the Court of Appeals
were intended, why did the Congress deem it necessary to
make special provision for appeals in cases instituted in
the District Courts of the United States while maintaining silence with regard to similar cases instituted in the
Supreme Court of the District? Again, it is to be noted
that in cases of application by claimant for allowance

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

297

Argument for Appellee in Nos. 430, 4.31:

made to the President and in event of order for payment
being made by him, no provision for appeal by the Custodian or Treasurer to any other authority or power is even
hinted at, either in the Trading with the Enemy Act or
elsewhere. Section 9 (a), as we think, neither requires
nor contemplates an appeal from or review of action by
the Chief Executive, nor of the judicial proceedings had
in the Supreme. Court of the, District of Columbia in
connection with any such claims.
To establish the existence of jurisdiction in the Court
of Appeals and this Court to hear and determine the case,
it is hardly sufficient to recite the fact that, in the absence
of protest or objection, other similar cases have been
adjudicated by the same and other tribunals. Fritch,
Inc. v. United States, 248 U. S. 458; Baldwin Co. v.
Howard Co., 256 U. S. 36; Estate of Beckwith v. Commissioner of Patents, 252 U. S. 538.
Rather than to make that full, frank and perfect disclosure which the statute evidently contemplates on the
part of its administrative officers charged with the duties
of sequestering and preserving enemy property, these defendants have preferred to mask their own superior
knowledge with silence and to obstruct the courts in their
endeavors to administer the law as written by demanding
"strict proof" from plaintiffs less fully informed than
they themselves presumably must be. In such circumstances, plaintiffs-have met the burden as best they could
and to the entire satisfaction of the trial and intermediate
appellate courts, which have concurred in their findings
respecting the facts and in their decree as to where the
right of the matter lies. In such circumstances, and in
the absence of a scintilla of evidence to the contrary, what
true ground is or was there for contending, either here
or in the court below, that the moneys in question were
other than the former property of the sometime Imperial
German Government? For purposes of seizure, the de-

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

termination of the Alien Property Custodian, after investigation, was final, in the absence of suit brought under
§ 9 for its return, and that whether "right or wrong." If
such decision be final .for purposes of the seizure and
sequestration, why does it not remain final, acting as an
estoppel against the Custodian when relied upon by a
creditor of the detected and mulcted enemy, seeking,
under express provisions of § 9, to establish his claim
against such enemy, and to secure its satisfaction out of
the sequestered property? It would seem to be strange
that an Attorney General should be either expected or
empowered to assert rights on the part of the United
States in properties sequestered under the terms and in
conformity with the provisions of a federal statute, contrary to the dispensatory terms of the statute itself,
Neither originally nor since has § 9 contained any provision for joining the enemy debtor as a party defendant in
any suit brought to establish any interest or claim in or to
an enemy debtor's property which had been seized by the
Custodian. Spiegelberg v. Garvan, 260 Fed. 302; Koscinski v. White, Treasurer,286 Fed. 211; Munich Reissuance Co. v. First Reissuance Co. (No. 2), 300 Fed. 345.
As to the suggestion of the United States that it should
be permitted to share pro rata with its citizen claimants:
The procedure demahded by the statute could not be
applied to the United States. The supposed rights of the
United States do not constitute "debts" in any sense
known to our jurisprudence. The Trading with the
Enemy Act does not purport to deal with reparations.
That has been dealt with partly by treaties and is still
the subject of exchanges between the two nations.
MR. JUSTIcE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The cases numbered from 423 to 445 inclusive are appeals from decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

299

Opinion of the Court.

of Columbia. They were decided under an opinion reported in 4 Fed. (2d) 619; No. 423 being disposed of per
curiam, on the authority of that decision, in 4 Fed. (2d)
624. The other two cases, numbers 809 and 810, come
here on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit granted last month by this Court
after a decree for the plaintiff in the District Court, but
before a decision by the Circuit Court of Appeals, in view
of the fact that the questions raised had been presented
to it by the above mentioned appeals. Judicial Code,
§ 240, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229,
43 Stat. 936.
Thew suits are bills in equity brought under the Trading
with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c. 106, § 9, 40
Stat. 411, 419; as amended by the Acts of June 5, 1920.
c. 241, 41 Stat. 977, and March 4, 1923, c. 2W5, 42 Stat.
1511. They are all brought upon notes issued by the
Imperial German Government and alleged to have been
recognized by the. present German Government. They
seek to collect the amounts from funds alleged to have
belonged to the Imperial Government and now in the
hands of the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer
of the United States under the above mentioned Act.
The defences relied upon were: (1) that Germany had
an interest in the fund and that the suits required a judgment as to the obligations of a foreign sovereign and that
therefore the courts had no jurisdiction; (2) that there
was no competent evidence that any funds in the bands
of either of the defendants had belonged to the German
Government and (3) that the United States had claims
against Germany, arising out of the war, in excess of the
funds and was entitled to satisfaction from those funds
either in preference to other claims or at least on an equal
footing with them. The last point is reinforced by a
suggestion on behalf of the United States in all the cases
except number 423 that it has filed notice of its claim

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

under oath, that the claims other than its own would
more than exhaust the funds on hand, that it is entitled to
priority, and that the Court should dismiss the other bills
and prcmeed to establish the claims of the United States.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a
careful opinion overruled the defence, dismissed the suggestion and affirmed decrees for the plaintiffs. We are of
opinion that its decision and that of the District Court
in Missouri were right.
The elaborate argument that was made against the
jurisdiction of courts over actions against foreign governments or to examine the conduct of such governments is
beside the mark. In these cases no judgment is asked
against Germany or against property that it is entitled to
defend. The funds were seized adversely by the United
States in time of war. They are in its hands; it has declared by an Act of Congress what shall be done with
them, and that is the end of the matter. There is no question that such a seizure and disposition are within
its powers. Brown v. United States, 8 Cr. 110, 129.
Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268. The treaty with
Germany has r:ecognized their effect. Article 1, according
the rights asserted by the joint resolution of July 2, 1921,
§ 5, recited in the Treaty, 42 Stat., Part II, 1939. Turning then to the Trading with the Enemy Act we find in
§ 9 express authority to any person not an enemy to maintain bills like the present for satisfaction of debts owing
from an enemy, out of the property that has come from
such enemy into the Custodian's hands. By § 2 "enemy"
as used in the Act is defined and stated to include the
government of any nation with which the United States
is at war. The jurisdiction is complete unless the suggestion of an adverse interest on the part of the United
States should induce a different result.
We will take up the claim of the*United States in this
connection, as it is the only point that is entitled to any

WHITE v. MECHANICS SECURITIES CORP.
283

301

Opinion of the Court.

serious consideration. The United States seized the property in question from an enemy and of course could do
with it what it liked. When it comes into court'and seeks
to appropriate it there is a natural notio4i that it has
elected to use its power. Its power could not be denied
if the Attorney General were the complete mouthpiece
of its will. But whatever his authority, it is subordinate
to Congress; and Congress has more authentically declared the sovereign intent by the statute to which we
have referred. The statute gives an absolute right to the
suitor who comes within its terms, unqualified by any
reservation of a superior lien in case the United States
should be a rival creditor. Even assuming, notwithstanding Davis v. Pringle, 268 U. S. 315, 318, that the United
States is a "person" given, the right to sue by § 9, there
is no reservation of priority in the Act, or of a right to
intermeddle in the private suit of another, or cf any advantage that it might have retained as captor of the
fund. Whether from magnanimity or forgetfulness, it
has assumed the position of a trustee for the benefit of
claimants and has renounced the power to assert a claim
except on the same footing and in the same way as others,
if at all. There is no doubt an intermittent tendency on
the part of governments to be a little less grasping than
they have been in the past, and it may be that the enactment was intended to exhibit the self-denial that, whether
intended or not, was achieved in the bankruptcy act with
regard to the priority of liens. Davis v. Pringle,268 U. S.
315. There is more reason for it when, as here, the competition is between claims imposed by reason of success
in war, and those arising out of ordinary business transactions of citizens in time of peace.
With regard to the evidence, the contention on behalf
of the United States does not seem to us to need more
than a word of reply. The facts admitted by abswer under
oath of the Custodian and the Treasurer in one of the cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

were that the Custodian determined after investigation
that five hundred and fifteen thousand five hundred and
seventy-five dollars were owing to the German Government, that he demanded and received them under the Act,
paid them to the Treasurer, and holds them in a special
trust; that he afterwards collected and paid over to the
Treasurer five million dollars in a special trust as from an
unknown enemy, but later determined that two million
two hundred thousand dollars of the latter sum were held
when he received them for the Imperial German Government, and directed the Treasurer to transfer that amount
to a special account to the credit of the Imperial German
Government, and that this was done. It was pressed at
great length that the Custodian had no authority to determine the fact, especially after the money had been
transferred to the Treasurer. But it is immaterial whether
he had that authority or not. He had authority to answer
in his own case, and the admission of the two defendants
under oath is evidence against them in other cases as it
would be conclusive against them in the one where it
was filed, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary.
Pope v. Allis, 115 U. S. 363. No evidence to the contrary
was given in any of the cases nor was any reason shown
to doubt the fact.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in this case.
EX PARTE GRUBER.
No.

-.

Original. Motion for leave to file petition for mandamus,
November 23, 1925.-Decided December. 14, 1925.

The provision of the Constitution granting this Court original jurisdiction "in all cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers
and Consuls" refers to diplomatic and consular representatives
accredited to the United States by foreign powers, and not to
those representing this country abroad.
Leave to file denied.

