304

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

Packard,7 Pet. 276, 284; Marshallv. Critico, 9 East 447;
Valarino v. Thompson, 7 N. Y. 576, 578; The Federalist,
No. 80, Ford's Ed., pp. 531, 532-533, 537.
The applicationis denied for want
of original jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK & CUBA MAIL

STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 65.

Argued October 20, 1925.-Decided December 14, 1925.

1. The Act of December 26, 1920, providing, inter alia, that "alien
seamen" found on arrival in ports of the United States to be afflicted With any of the diseases mentioned in § 35 of the Immigration Act of 1917, sliall be placed in a hospital designated by an
immigration official, and treated, and that all expenses connected
therewith shall be borne b5y the owner or master of the vessel,
applies to seamen who are aliens in personal citizenshil3, without
regard to whether the nationality of the vessel be foreign or
domestic. P. 310.
2. As applied to American vessels this provision is not repugnant to
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, and is within
the power of Congress over the exclusion of aliens. P. 313.
297 Fed. 159, reversed; Dist. Ct. affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
recovered by the United States from the Steamship Company, representing the hospital expenses incurred in curing a diseased seaman.

Assistant Attorney, General Letts, with whom Solicitor
General Beck and Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK S. S. CO.
304

305

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. Mark W. Maclay, with whom Mr. John Tilney Carpenter was on the brief, for respondent.
As a general principle, seamen partake of the nationality
of the ships upon which they are employed. All seamen,
including aliens, regularly employed on vessels of the
United States, are "American seamen." In re Ross, 140
U. S. 453. This principle has been followed by the Department of State in administ 3ring statutory provisions
relating to seamen, through the Consular Service, which
is governed by the Consular Regulations. Revised Stats.
§ 4577, which provides for the repatriation of destitute
American seamen, has been construed both by the Consular Regulations and by Judge Story as covering seamen of foreign nationality on American vessels. Matthews v. Offley, 3 Sumn. 115. See The Santa Elena, 271
Fed. 347; The Laura M. Lunt, 170 Fed. 204; The Blakeley, 234 Fed. 959. Aliens or foreigners employed on
American vessels are considered as American seamen.
Citizens of the United States while employed as seamen
on foreign ships are " alien seamen." Rainey v. N. Y. &
P. S. S. Co., 216 Fed. 449; The Marie, 49 Fed. 286; The
Ester, 190 Fed. 216; The Albergen, 223 Fed. 443.
The Act of December 26, 1920, should be construed in
accordance with the general doctrine of nationality of
seamen. The drastic and highly penal, character of this
Act require a strict construction. The language and clear
intention of the statute do not require application to
American shipowners. The provision of the statute for
the return of incurable cases is clear as applied to seamen
on foreign ships, but is meaningless or absurdly unjust if
applied to an alien person shipped at a United States port
on an American vessel. Castner, Curran& Bullitt, Inc. v.
Hamilton, 275 Fed. 203; Neilson v. Rhine Shipping Co.,
248 U. S. 205. Both- United States v. Union Supply Co.,
215 U. S. 50, and Neilson v. Rhine Shipping Co., 248 U. S.
205, depend on the same fundamental canon, that a

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

269 U. S.

statute must be construed, if possible, as a. harmonious
whole, and in such a way as to give effect to all its parts.
As the second proviso cannot be given effective meaning
unless the wor[ds "alien seamen," throughout the Act be
construed as not applying to seamen on American vessels,
that is a sufficient reason for the cohstruction adopted by
the Circuit Coirt of Appeals.
Finally, if "it is not thinkable" that the American
shipowner engaged in foreign trade should be required
to return a diseased alien to the distant. country from
which he originally came, it is certainly "not thinkable"
that Congress intended that American vessels in the
coastwise service, employing aliens who contract one of
the specified disabilities or diseases during the voyage, be
required to return them to their distant native land. Yet
if the term "alien seamen " means persons who individually are aliens, even though, they are seamen on an
American vessel, the Act necessarily applies to coastwise
shipping. The legislative history of th6 Act shows that
it was intended to apply to foreign ships, and not to seamen of any individual nationality on vessels of the United
States.
The relation, if any, between the Act of December 26,
1920, and the Immigration Laws, does not require the construction of "alien seamen " to mean "alien individuals
employed as seamen on American vessels." T)ie Act of
December 26, 1920, is not an amendment of the Immigration Act. The subject matter of the Act of December 26,
1920, relates to seamken and public health rather than to
immigration. The title and form of the Act of 1920
distinguish it from the immigration statutes. References
in the statute to immigration are unimportant. The Act
of 1920 differs from the Immigration Act, § 35, in respect
of the persons and vessels described and the conditions of
liability. Castner, Curran & Bullitt, Inc. v. Hamilton,
275 Fed. 203. The unconstitutionality of the statute as

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK S. S. CO.
304

307

Argument for Respondent.

applied to owners of vessels of the United States is a sufficient reason for affirming the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
An examination of the decisions on liability without
fault, reveals that statutory liability should not be sustained under the police power, or any other power under
the Constitution of the United States, against a defendant who cannot reasonably be said to be in the chain of
causation leading to the damage, or in control of the instrumentality which gives rise to it. Fritz v. Railroad,
243 Mo. 62. The basis of the validity of legislation of
this character is found in the fact that the party sought
to be charged has control over the instrumentality which
causes the damage. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Mathews,
165 U. S. 1; Eastman v. Jennings-McRae Logging Co.,
69 Oregon 1. Furthermore, a statute making a railroad
absolutely liable for all damage, such as the death of animals occurring on its right of way, without imposing any
duty, or without providing for a judicial determination as
to whether there has been a breach of duty, is clearly unconstitutional. Zeigler v. South & North Alabama R. R.,
58 Ala. 594; Birmingham Mineral R. R. v. Parsons, 100
Ala. 662; Union Pacific Ry. v. Kerr, 19 Colo. 273; Wadsworth v. Union Pacific Ry., 18 Colo. 600; Cateril v. Union
Pac. Ry., 2 Idaho 540; Bielenberg v. Montana Union Ry.,
8 Mont. 271; Atchison, etc. R. R. v. Baty, 6 Neb. 37;
Jensen v. Union Pacific Ry., 6 Utah 253; Jolliffe v.
Brown, -14 Wash. 155; Schenck v. Union Pacific Ry.,
5 Wyo. 430.
The saffne basis of determining what is due process was
relied on in two cases in which statutes, not in respect of
railroads, but in respect of highway collisions, were held
unconstitutional. Camp v. Rogers, 44 Conn. 291 and
Daugherty v. Thomas, 174 Mich. 371. See Ex parte
Hodges, 87 Calif. 162.
By the same reasoning, this respondent, which had no
control over the contraction of the disease or the condition

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

-

of the seaman, should not be held liable for the expenses
of treatment as provided in the Act of 1920. In relations
between master and servant, although both by the maritime law and also under workmen's compensation statutes,
the employer is liable, without fault, for injury to the
employee resulting from risks inherent in the employment, or due to its peculiar conditions, such liability does
not extend to losses caused by the wilful misconduct of
the employee. 25 Harv. L. Rev. 129i Cudahy v. Parramore, 263 U. S. 418. It is believed that every one of
these statutes upheld by the courts has contained a provision exempting the employer from liability for the results of the employee's wilful misconduct.. Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541; N. Y. Central R. R. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188; Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210;
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Arizona Employers'.Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400.
Under the maritime law it is well settled that a shipowner is liable, irrespective of negligence, for the maintenance and cure of seamen who are injured or become
sick in the course of the employment. The Osceola, 189
U. S. 158. As in the case of the express provisions of
workmen's compensation acts, the maritime law holds
that seamen suffering from venereal disease, or from
injury due to their own wilful misconduct, are not entitled to maintenance and cure. Pierce v. Patton (1833),
Gilp. 435. Chandler v. The Annie Buckman (1853), 21
Betts D.C. (MS.) 112; The Alector, 263 Fed. 1007; The
Bouker No. 2, 241 Fed. 831.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The questions involved in this case relate to the construction and constitutionality of the Act of December 26,
1920, c. 4, 41 Stat. 1082, entitled "An Act to provide for
the treatment in hospital of diseased alien seamen." It

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK S.'S. CO. 309
Opinion of the Court.

304

provides: "That alien seamen found on arrival in ports
of the United States to be afflicted with any of the disabilities or diseases mentioned in section 35 of" the Alien
Immigration Act of 1917 1-including any loathsome or
dangerous contagious disease-" shall be placed in a hospital designated by the immigration officials in charge at
the port of arrival and treated, all expenses connected
therewith

.

.

.

to be borne by the owner

.

.

.

or

master of the vessel, and not to be deducted from the
seamen's wages'"; and that where a cure cannot be effected within a reasonable time "the return of the alien
seamen shall be enforced 'on or at the expense of the vessel
on which they came, upon such conditions as the Commissioner General of Immigration, with the approval of
the Secretary of Labor, shall prescribe, to insure that the
aliens shall be properly cared for and protected, and that
the spread of contagion shall be guarded against."
The Steamship Company, a Ma. ne corporation, is the.
owner of a merchant vessel of American registry. On a
voyage from New York to the West Indies and return,
this vessel carried a seaman who was a citizen of Chile.
On returning to New York he was found by the imrnmigration officials to be afflicted with a venereal disease, and on
the order of the Commissioner of Immigration was placed
in the Public Health Service hospital on Ellis Island for
treatment. He was later discharged from the hospital as
cured, and admitted into the United States. The Steamship Company having refused to pay the hospital ex*penses, the United States brought suit against it in the
Federal District Court for the amount of such expenses
Judgment was recovered, which was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, on the ground that the Act applied
only to seamen on foreign vessels. 297 Fed. 159. The
case is here on writ of certiorari. 265 U. S, 578.
'Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

This decision is in conflict with the earlier decisions in
Franco v. Shipping Corporation, (D. C.) 272 Fed. 542,
-and Castner v. Hamilton, (D. C.) 275 Fed. 203, in which
the Act was applied to aliens brought in as seamen on
American vessels.
The question of construction presented is whether the
term "alien seamen," as used in the Act, means seamen
who axe aliens, as the Government contends, or seamen
on foreign vessels, as the Steamship Company contends:
that is, whether in applying the Act the test is the citizen°
ship of the seaman or the nationality of the vessel.
We think the term "alien seamen " is not to be construed as meaning seamen on foreign vessels. The general principle that an alien while a seaman on an American vessel is regarded as being an. American seaman in
such sense that he is under the protection and subject to
the laws of the United States, In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453,
479, has no application to the question whether aliens
employed on American vessels are included within the
terms of a special statute dealing solely and specifically
with "alien seamen," as such. And if the rule attributing
to a seaman the nationality of the vessel should be applied to this Act so as to give to the term "alien seamen"
the meaning of "seamen on foreign vessels," it would
result, under the terms of itslast clause, that an American
seaman employed on a foreign vessel who was afflicted
with an incurable disease, on being brought into an American port could not be admitted into the United States,
but would have to be returned; an anomalous result
which, obviously, Congress did not intend.
It is clear that the term "alien seamen" as used in the
Act. means "seamen who are aliens." It describes, aptly
and exactly, seamen of alien nationality, dealing with
them, as individuals, with reference to their personal citizenship; and it has no other significance either in common
usage or in law. The Act does not qualify this term by

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK S., S. CO. 311
304

Opinion of'the Court.

any reference to the nationality of the vessels. Nor does
it use the words "seamen on foreign vessels" 'or any
equivalent phrase which would have been appropriate had
it been intended to describe the seamen *on such vessels.
This conclusion is emphasized when the Act is congidered in the light of the Alien Immigration Act of 1917,
and the legislative history showing the condition it was
evidently the intention to correct. United States v. Morrow, 266 U. S. 531, 535. The Act of 1917, inter alia, dealt
specifically with "alien seamen," using that term, as
shown by its general definitions and various provisions, as
meaning "aliens employed on any vessel arriving in the
United States from a foreign port." It provided that, if
not within any of the classes excluded by reason of disease
or otherwise, they might be admitted into the Un'ited
States as other aliens, but, if not so admitted, prohibited
them from landing, except for certain temporary purposes,
under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Labor;
and it required the owner or master of "any vessel"
coming from a foreign port to furnish a list of all its alien
seamen and not to pay off or discharge them unless duly
admitted or permitted to land. (§§ 1, 2, 32-34, 36.) And
by § 35--whichi was specifically referred to in the Act of
1920-it was provided that if "any vessel" carrying
passengers, on arrival from a foreign port, had on board
employed thereon, any alien afflicted with any enumerated
disability or disease which had existed when he shipped
on the vessel and might then have been detected by competent medical examination, the owner or master of the
vessel should pay a fine, and, pending its departure, the
alien should be treated in hospital at the expense of the
vessel.
. There was, however, no provision expressly authorizin
the hospital expenses incurred in the treatment of a
diseased alien seaman to be charged to the vessel when it
carried freight or the disease could not have been detected
at the time that he shipped on the vessel.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

In this situation the Department of Labor, in 1919, prepared the draft of the bill which later, with minor changes,
became the Act of 1920. In a letter transmitting this draft
to the Chairman of the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, the Secretary stated that the
Department was very anxious to have it enacted into law
in order to fix definitely " the responsibility of steamship
lines and vessels for the expenses which arise from the
frequent necessity of placing in hospitals alien seamen
who, upon arrival at our ports, are found to be afflicted
with various diseases, often of a loathsome or dangerous
contagious character"; the existing law not being clear
upon this matter. The Committee, in reporting the bill,'
set forth this letter from the Secretary, and said: "The
bill simply provides that the care and treatment in hospital of diseased alien seamen be placed on the same basis as
the care and treatment in hospital of diseased aliens,
namely, at the expense of the ship or steamship company
bringing the diseased alien seamen into this country. At
present there is a difference of opinion as to who shall
pay the expenses of taking care of these alien seamen
who come here and require medical or surgical treatment."
No substantial doubt is cast upon the purpose of the
Act by the incidental statement of the Chairman of the
Committee in the course of debate, that the bill applied
only to foreign ships, especially since, in the same debate,
he described it as referring to " sick alien seamen," and
stated that it perfected a provision already 'partly in
the immigration laws" making the owners of vessels responsible for their medical treatment 2
In the light of this history, as well as from the face of
the Act itself, it is clear that the words " alien seamen "
were used in the same sense as in the Act of 1917, with
2
3

Ho. Rep. No. 173, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.
60 Cong. Rec., 66th Cong., 3d'Sess., Pt. 1, pp. 600, 601.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK S. S. CO
304

313

Opinion of the Court.

which it is in pari materia, that is, as meaning aliens employed as seamen on any vessel arriving in the United
States; and that it was intended to extend the provisions
of § 35 of that Act by providing that the hospital expenses
incurred in treating any such diseased alien should be
borne in all cases by the vessel bringing him in, whether
carrying passengers er freight, and without reference to
the time when the disease might have been detected. And
it has been so construed and applied by the Department
of Labor.
The Steamship Company, while conceding that the Act
as thus construed is constitutional as applied to foreign
vessels, contends that as applied to American vessels it is
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment in that " it imposes liability without causation or
causal connection." This contention is without merit.
The power of Congress to forbid aliens and classes of
aliens from coming within the borders of the United
States is unquestionable. The Chinese Exclusion Case,
130 U. S. 581, 606; Wong Wing v. United States, 163
U. S. 228, 237; Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S. 279, 289;
Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 336.
Congress may exercise this power by legislation aimed at
the vessels bringing in excluded aliens, as by penalizing
a vessel bringing in alien immigrants afflicted with diseases which might have been detected at the time of foreign embarkation, Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan,
supra, p. 332, or by requiring a vessel bringing in aliens
found to be within an excluded class, to bear the expense
of maintaining them while on land and of returning them,
United States v. Nord Deutscher Lloyd,'223 U. S. 512,
517. There is no suggestion in any of these cases that
this power is limited to foreign vessels. It may be exercised in reference to alien seamen as well as other aliens.
And if they are found to be diseased when brought into
an American port, the vessel, whether American or for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Decree.

269 U. S.

eign, may lawfully be required to bear the expenses of
their medical treatment.
The judgment of the District Court isaffirmed, and that
of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Reversed.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
No. 13, Original.

Decree announced January 4, 1926.1

Decree (1) confirming report of commissioners showing that they
have run, located and marked portions of the interstate boundary
along the south bank of Red River, other than the Big Bend and
Fort Augur areas, from the 100th meridian of longitude to the
eastern limit of Lamar County, Texas; (2) establishing the same
as the true boundary between Texas and Oklahoma, at the places
designated in the report, subject to future change by erosion and
accretion; (3) directing that copies of decree, report and maps
be transmitted to the Chief Magistrates of the two States.

On consideration of the third report of the Commissioners, heretofore selected to run, locate and mark portions of the boundary between the States of Texas and
Oklahoma along the south bank of the Red River, showing that they have run, located and marked particular
portions of such boundary from the One Hundredth
meridian of longitude to the eastern limit of Lamar
County, Texas, other than the Big Bend and Fort Augur
areas covered by two reports heretofore presented and
confirmed, which said third report was presented and
filed herein November 16, 1925;
1(
And no objection or exception to such report being
presented, although the time therefor has expired;
It is now adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said
report be in all respects confirmed.
It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the
boundary line delineated and set forth in the report and
1 For another order of this date, respecting the expenses and compensation of the commissioners, see post, p. 539.

