186

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.,
269 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

SOUTHERN ELECTRIC COMPANY v. STODDARD,
SUPERINTENDENT.

1

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Submitted October 14, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.
In proceedings brought by the New York Superintendent of Insurance
to liquidate the business of a New York insurance company, the
claim of a creditor who had recovered judgment against the company in a federal court in another State, to payment out of existing assets, was disallowed by the Supreme Court of New York,
Special Term, upon the ground that, under the New York insurance law, the claim, having arisen after the date when the property was taken over for liquidation, must be postponed to claims
previously arisen. The order of disallowance was affirmed by the
Appellate Division. The creditor throughout the proceedings invoked the full faith and credit clause, the contract clause, and the
Fourtenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Held, in view
of an interpretation by the New York Court of Appeals1. That the order of the Appellate Division was an order entered
upon a decision which finally determined an action or special proceeding within § 588, paragraph 1, of the New York Civil Practice
Act, and, under that paragraph, because of the constitutional questions involved, was appealable as of right to the Court of Appeals. P. 188.
2. Therefore, under § 237, Judicial Code, as amended September 6,
1916, the claimant not having applied to the Court of Appeals, a
writ of error from this Court to the Appellate Division would not
lie. Id.
Writ of Error to 207 App. Div. (N. Y.) 842, 893, dismissed.
No. 42.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division, which affirmed an order of the
Special Term disalloving a judgment creditor's claim
against an insurance company, in liquidation proceedings.
Messrs. Arthur F. Gotthold, Thomas M. Fields, Frank

J. Hogan and Walter W. Gross were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
'James A. Beha, Superintendent of Insurance, was substituted as
defendant in error in this Court.

SOUTHERN ELECTRIC CO. v. STODDARD.
186

187

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Clarence C. Fowler, James A. Beha and Alfred
C. Bennett were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Unkefer & Co., a Delawafe corporation, on October 1,
1915, entered into a contract with the United States to
erect a post office and -court house building in Charlotte,
North Carolina, and furnished a bond in accordance with
the Act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 St. 811. There
were two sureties upon the bond, the Casualty Company
of America, of New York, and the Southwestern .Insurance
Company, of Oklahoma, the former being liable under the
terms of the bond for $50,000, and the latter for $46,000.
Unkefer & Co. made various contracts for supplies and
materials, including a contract with the Southern Electric
Company for $201.23. The supplies were used in the post
office building and were delivered before the middle of
June, 1917. Unkefer & Co. became insolvent at that
time and ceased work. Under the provisions of the bond,
the Casualty Company became liable for 52 per .cent. of
the claim. Suit was brought by the Southern Electric
Company against the Casualty Company in the United
States District Court for the Western District of North
Carolina, and a judgment in the sum of $105.50 was recovered August 4, 1921.
Meantime by order of the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, dated May 4, 1917, the Superintendent of
Insurance of that State took possession of the property
of the Casualty Company of America and proceeded to
liquidate its' business in accordance with* the statutes
under which it was organized, and as liquidator made a
report of the claims against the company to the Supreme
Court of New York. A duly, authenticated record of the
judgment in favor of the Southern Electric Co. in the
United States court for the Western District of North
Carolina was filed as a claim with the liquidator against

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the Casualty Company. He reported that it could not be
allowed because it did not arise until after the date when
ihe property of the Casualty Company had been taken
over for liquidation and must therefore be classed under
the New York statute as a contingent claim not to be
paid *out of the existing assets-until after the claims
which had arisen before liquidation had been paid. An
order of reference to consider the objections to the report of the liquidator was made- in the Supreme Court,
and they were sent to a referee to be heard. He sustained the report of the liquidator. The disallowance
was approved by the Supreme Court and on appeal was
taken to the Appellate Division, which affirmed the order
of the special term. The claimant then moved for leave
to appeal to the Court of Appeals, and that motion was
denied by the Appellate Division. It is from the order
of the Appellate Division affirming the report of the
Superintendent of Insurance disallowing the claim that
this writ of error is taken.
Both before the referee in the Supreme'Court and the
Appellate Division the claimant maintained that the refusal to allow the claim based on the judgment of the
Western District of North Carolina was a denial of full
faith and credit, in violation of Article IV, § 1 of the
Federal Constitution; that § 63 of the insurance law of
the State of New York, by which all the assets of the
Insurance Company were appropriated to pay claims
earlier than the North Carolina judgment here sought to
be enforced, was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment in requiring a classification so unreasonable as to
take claimant's prQperty without due process of law, and
that the New York statute impaired the obligation of a
contract, in violation of Article I, § 10, clause 1, of the
Constitution.•
A motion is made to dismiss this writ of error on the
ground that it has not issued to the court of last resort

SOUTHERN ELECTRIC CO. v. STODDARD.
186

189

Opinion of the Court.

of the State of New York as required by § 237 of the
Judicial Code, as amended by Act of September 6, 1916,
39 St. 726, c. 448. By the first paragraph of § 588 of the
Civil Practice Act of New York, an appeal to the Court
of Appeals may be taken as of right from a judgment or
order entered upon the decision of the Appellate Division
which finally determines an action or special proceeding
where is directly involved the construction of the Constitution of the State or of the United'States. In this case
there is directly involved the construction of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore it would seem
that an appeal could have been taken from the Appellate
Division as of right to the Court of Appeals, but this
was not done. Instead, application was made to the
Appellate Division to certify that a question of law was
involved in the case which ought to be reviewed by the
Court of Appeals, and that certificate the Appellate Division declined. Thereafter no application was made to
the Court of Appeals to allow an appeal. Paragraph 4
of § 588 provides that an appeal may be taken to the
Court of Appeals from a judgment or order entered upon
the decision of the Appellate Division which finally determines an action or special proceeding, 'but which is not
appealable as of right under sub-division 1 of the section, where the Appellate Division shall certify that in
its opinion a question of law is involved which ought to
be reviewed by the Court of Appeals, or where in case
of the refusal so to certify an appeal is allowed by the
Court of Appeals.
It is said that this order of disallowance could not have
been appealed to the Court of Appeals, either under the
first or fourth paragraph of § 588, because it is not an order
entered upon the decision of the Appellate Division which
finally determines an action or special proceeding, and
that this was so held in the case of The People v. American Trust Company, 150 N. Y. 117. We find, however,.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S,

that on December 12, 1922, in the matter of a claim of
one Badgley, in this same proceeding for the liquidation
of the Casualty Company of America, the Court of Appeals (234 N. Y. 503) entertained an appeal from the
Appellate Division of the first judicial department, which
had reversed an order of the special term allowing the
claim of the appellant therein and dismissed the claim.
This was not by permission of the Appellate Division and
must therefore have been found by the Court of Appeals
to be within the 4th paragraph of § 588, an order upon a
decision of the Appellate Division "finally determining
an action or special proceeding." This clearly shows that
in the view of the Court of Appeals of New York ifA the
order of disallowance in this case involved a federal constitutional question as it did on this record, it was directly,
appealable to that court from the Appellate Division
under the first paragraph of § 588.. The claimant has
failed to make proper application to the state court of
final resort and for that reason the writ must be dismissed.
Motion granted.
CENTRAL UNION TELEPHONE CO. v. CITY OF
EDWARDSVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 37.

Argued October 13, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

1. A system of state appellate practice (as in Illinois) which allows
,review of constitutional questions, with any others involved in
the case, by direct appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
but provides that if the appeal be taken to an intermediate court,
empowered to review non-constitutional questions, the constitutional questions shall be waived, is reasonable and valid as appliei
to a suitor who lost his opportunity to have his claim under the
Federal Constitution reviewed, in the state court or here, by
appealing to the intermediate court. P. 194.
2. An Illinois statute providing that "cases . . . in which the
validity of a statute or construction of the Constitution is in-

