PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

422

munitions tax was returned and ultimately assessed and
paid in the sum of $112,419.54.
Since the suit was one to recover a tax erroneously
exated, the burden was on the petitioners, appellees here,
to prove the facts establishing the invalidity of the tax.
But the findings fail to show affirmatively that the books
were kept or the return made on the basis of receipts and
disbursements. Indeed, the facts found, to which we
have referred, show that the books were kept on the basis
of accruals and reserves to meet liabilities incurred. It
does not appear that there was any expense or liability
of the taxpayer incurred by its operations during the year
which was not accrued on its books. Its return was made
on that basis, but omitted munitions taxes accrued on its
books during the year for which the return was made.
We think these facts bring the case clearly within the
principle which we deem to be applicable to No. 420.
The judgment of the Court of Claims in each case is
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.

PROVOST

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 258. Argued November 18, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.
1. Transfers involved in the "lending" of stock and "return" of the
stock "borrowed," on the New York Stock Exchange, are taxable
transfers, within the meaning of provisions of the Revenue Acts
of 1917, and 1918, imposing a stamp tax of two cents per
share upon "all sales or agreements to sell, or memoranda' of
sales or deliveries of, or transfers of legal title to shares or cer-

tificates of stock."

P. 456.

2. Under the rules and practice of' the New York Stock Exchange,
a broker requiring certificates of stock to deliver in consummation of a short sale, may "borrow" them for that purpose from
another broker as follows: The "borrower" deposits with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

"lender" their full market price; and, until the loan is returned,
this deposit is maintained, by daily payments back and forth
between the borrower and the lender, at the level' of the market
value of the borrowed stock; the lender usually pays interest on
the deposit, but whether interest is paid or the borrower pays
a premium for the "loan" of the shares, may be matters of agreement between them; the borrower contracts to give the lender
while the loan continues, all the benefits, (such as dividends,) and
the lender contracts to bear all the burdens, (such as assessments,)
incident to the ownership of the shares, as though the lender had
retained ownership of them; concurrently with the receipt of the
deposit, the lender delivers to the borrower or for his account, the
certificates of the stock lent. The stock borrowed thus becomes
available to the borrower for delivery upon his short sale. Upon
demand of either broker, their mutual obligations may be satisfied by a "return" to the lender of the stock borrowed-i. e. of
the same kind and amount of shares, which the borrower purchases, borrows, or otherwise procures for the purpose--and by
repayment of the deposit to the borrower with interest, as agreed.
Held:
(1) That, upon ,the physical delivery of the certificates by' the
lender, with full recognition of the right and authority of the borrower to. appropriate them to his short salA contract, and their
receipt by the purchaser, all the incidents of ownership of the
stock borrowed pass to the latter. P. 456:
(2) The borrower, in that event, is neither a pledgee, trustee nor
bailee for the lender; nor is the transaction within the meaning of
a proviso in the above cited statutes, exempting from the tax, deposits of stock certificates as security for money loaned. Id.
(3) The "return" of the borrowed stock transfers to the lender all
the incidents of ownership in the shares represented by the certificates delivered to him. Id.
(4) Consequently both the "loan" and the "return" transactions
are within the terms of the above taxing statutes as "transfers of
legal title to shares of stock." Id.
(5) And deliveries of indorsed certificates of stock incidental to
these transfers, are "deliveries of . . .shares or certificates of
stock" within the statutory. provision. Id.
3. The reenactment of a taxing provision, after it has been construed
by the Attorney General and the construction has been adopted
by the Treasury Department and called to the attention of Congress, indicates a purpose to continue the law in force as so construed. P. 457.

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Argument for Appellants.

4. When Congress in renacting a provision, rejects a proposed alteration, a subsequent amendment incorporating it evinces a purpose
to effect a change in the law. P. 458.
60 Ct. Cls. 49, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims, for
the United States, in a suit to recover, as an illegally
exacted tax, the cost of revenue stamps affixed to "tickets" constituting documentary evidence of "loans" of
shares of stock and return of shares "borrowed," in
transactions between brokers on the New York Stock
Exchange.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. George W.
Wickersham, William F. Unger, Samuel P. Gilman and
Samuel Rubin were on the brief, for appellants.
I. The history of similar legislation indicates clearly
that it was not the intent of Congress to tax the borrowing and return of stock among brokers.
Earlier taxing acts, similar in language and purpose,
were held not to apply to such iransactions.
The reenactment in the 1918 Act of the stamp tax
provisions of the 1917 Act, does not indicate a ratification
by Congress of the Treasury Department's ruling.
The Revenue. Act of 1921 contains an express declaration disapproving the Treasury Department's interpretation of the 1917 and 1918 Acts.
II. There is no ground for inferring that Congress intended to discriminate against short sales or to ixniose
a greater tax on "short" than on "long" transactions,
nor is there any ground for assuming that Congress knew
of the practice of brokers to borrow and return stocks in
connection with short sales and intended to tax such
borrowing and return.
III. The transactions involved in this claim are not
taxable under the eracting clauses of the 1917 and 1918

Acts,

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

269 U. S.

The word "deliveries" as used in the 1917 and 1918
Acts cannot be held to apply to every transfer of physical
possession. It must be construed in the light of its con-'
text, and limited to sales and other similar transfers of
legal title. Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143
U. S. 457; Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; People
v. New York & Manhattan Beach Ry., 84 N. Y. 565;
United States v. Standard Brewery, Inc., 251 U. S. 210;
2 Sutherland, Statutory Construction 2nd Ed. p. 707;
Mackall v. District of Columbia, 16 App. D. C., 301;
1sitt v. Beeston, L. R., 4 Exch. 159; Cotton v. James,
1 Moody & Malkin 273.
The lending of stock as practiced by brokers, does not
constitute a transfer of legal title. The relation between
the lending broker and borrowing broker is that of pledgor
and pledgee. The transaction being a pledge, there is no
transfer of title. McNeil v. The Tenth National Bank,
46 N. Y. 325; Knox v. Eden Musee Co., 148 N. Y. 441;
First National Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369; National
Safe Deposit Savings & Trust Co. v. Hibbs, 229 U. S. 391.
Under the foregoing authorities, the title which a purchaser obtains from the borrowing broker is not based
upon a prior transfer of title to the borrowing broker, but
is based upon an estoppel created against the lending
broker-an estoppel which bars him from asserting his
title. "Title by estoppel" by its very terms indicates
that it is not a true title predicated upon an unbroken
chain of legal title, but that it is based upon a transfer
by a person who has not acquired legal title. The ability
of the borrowing broker to transfer to his purchaser a
better title than he himself has, is not peculiar to the
transactions involved in this case. The situation in this
respect is no different from that of a broker holding stocks
belonging to his customer, either as margin or merely for
safekeeping. It has been h eld repeatedly that, although
title to the stocks is in the stogmer, and not in the broker,

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Argument for. Appellants.

whether or not the broker has a lien thereon, the broker
may, nevertheless, transfer good title thereto to an innocent purchaser for value. In both cases, from the legal
standpoint, title to securities in the possession of one may
be vested in the other and yet the one holding possession
is able to transfer title to a third person. A sale has been
defined by this Court as "a transfer of property for a fixed
price in money or its equivalent." Iowa v. McFarland,
110 U. S. 471. Can it be said that these two elements,
to wit: a transfer of property or title and the payment of
a price, or either of them, are present in the case of the
transfer of a certificate of stock by one broker to another
for the purposes indicated in this claim? No price is paid
by the borrowing broker to the lending broker and the
transaction, therefore, cannot be denominated a sale,
whatever else it may be. Nor can we conceive of any
logical explanation which could harmonize the hypothesis
that the transaction is a sale with the fact that the lending
broker pays interest upon the money which he receives
at the time the stock is delivered and the fact that he
continues to receive the benefit of any dividends and other
increase of the stock, and conversely, continues to be liable
for any assessments or other charges against the stock.
Nor can such theory be harmonized with the fact that the
lending broker gains the benefit of any increase in the
market value and likewise bears any loss which .may result
from a decline in such market value.
Neither is the transaction a gift or trust. Chambers v.
McCreery, 98 Fed. (affirmed 106 Fed. 364). The borrowing of stock, from the facts disclosed, is nearer to a bailment than any of the other forms of transfer which we
have yet enumerated. Three elements are said to be
necessary to constitute a contract or pledge, viz: (1) The
possession of the pledged property must pass from the
pledgor to the pledgee or to some one for him; (2) The
legal title to the pledged property must remain in the

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appelants.

269 U. S.

pledgor; (3) The pledgee must have a lien on the property for the payment of a debt or performance of an
obligation due him by the pledgor or some other person.
An analysis of the methods by which stocks are "loaned"
shows that all those various elements are present which
are necessary to constitute the transaction a pledge as distinguished from the various other forms of transfer. One
possible objection may be made here, viz., that a pledgee
has no right to part with possession of the pledged property. Apart from the right of a pledgee of stocks to part
with their possession, it is legally possible for such a
pledgee to transfer good title thereto to a purchaser for
value. It is firmly settled that a pledgee of stock is not
required to retain in his possession the identical certificates of stock pledged with him. Such certificates are
interchangeable, and the rights of the pledgor are not
infringed by the transfer by the pledgee of the certificates
of stock pledged. The status of the pledge is maintained
so long as the pledgee has in his possession or under his
control, a similar amount of similar stock. It is by virtue
of this rule, peculiar to pledges of corporate stocks and
bonds, that the borrowing broker not only is legally able
to transfer good title to an innocent purchaser, but is
enabled to do so without violating any of the rights of
the lending broker and without being guilty of conversion. Richardson v. Shaw, 209 U. S. 365; Skiff v. Stoddard, 63 Conn. 216. By reason of the peculiar nature of a
certificate of stock, the fact that the borrower of the stock
may dispose of it and pass good title thereto is in no way
repugnant to the transaction being a pledge of the stock.
Atkins v. Gamble, 42 Cal. 86; Douglas v. Carpenter, 17
App. Div. 329; Caswell v. Putnam, 120 N. Y. 153. By the
system of mark-ups and mark-downs which has been described in the stipulation of facts, the lending broker is
fully protected with respect to the borrowing broker's per.formance, for the lending broker at all times holds au

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

amount of money equivalent to the market value of the
securities. Because of this system, which protects each
broker from loss by reason of default of the other, litigation is practically avoided and so the decisions are silent
as to the liabilities of the respective parties in the event
of a default on either part.
The opinion of the Attorney General, (31 Op. A. G.
225) upon which Treasury Decision 2685 was based, was
rendered without a complete understanding of the facts
and was based upon an erroneous assumption of the facts
and a misapprehension of the law applicable to the transactions in question.
IV. The lending of stock is equivalent to the deposit
of stock as collateral security for money loaned thereon,
and is, therefore, exempt from tax under the first proviso
of Paragraph 4 of Schedule A.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellants are co-partners engaged in business as
stock brokers with membership in the New York Stock
Exchange. They brought suit in the Court of Claims to
recover, as an illegally exacted tax, the cost of internal
revenue stamps affixed by them in the period from 1917
to 1920 to "tickets" which were documentary evidence
of transactions commonly known in the stock-brokerage
business as the "loan" of shares of stock and the return
by the borrower to the lender of shares of stock "borrowed." The case was tried upon agreed facts embodied
in the findings of the court below, and from the judgment
for the defendant in that court the case was brought here
on appeal. Jud. Code, ยง 242, before amendment of 1925.

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The applicable provisions of the statutes are to be
found in War Revenue Act of 1917, Title VIII, Schedule
A, par. 4, 40 Stat. 300, 322, which is printed in the
margin * and in the similar provision of the Revenue Act
of 1918, Title XI, Schedule A, par. 4, 40 Stat. 1057, 1135,
which may, for the purposes of this case, be taken to be
a re-enactment of the 1917 provision. Both acts imposed
a stamp tax of two cents per share upon "all sales or
agreements to sell, or memoranda of sales or deliveries
of, or transfers of legal title to shares or certificates of
stock." The question presented is whether the transfers
of shares of corporate stock involved in the "loan" and
"return" transactions in accordance with the rules and
practice of the Stock Exchange, are taxable transfers
within the meaning of the statute.
The loan of stock is usually, though not necessarily,
incidental to a "short sale." As the phrase indicates, a
short sale is a contract for the sale of shares which the
* Act of Oct. 3, 1917, c. 63, Title VIII, Schedule A, Paragraph 4,
40 Stat. 300, 322.
"4. Capital stock, sales or transfers: On all sales, or agreements
to sell, or memoranda of sales or deliveries of, or transfers of legal
title to shares or certificates 'of stock in any association, company, or
corporation, . . . whether made upon or shown by the books of
the association, company, or corporation, or by any assignment in
blank, or by any delivery, or by any paper or agreement or memorandum or other evidence of transfer or sale, whether entitling the
holder in any manner to the benefit of such stock or not, on each
$100 of face valfie or fraction thereof, 2 cents, and where such shares
of stock are without par value, the tax shall be 2 cents on the transfer or sale or agreement to sell on each share, unless the actual value
thereof is in excess of $100 per share, in which case the tax shall be
? cents on each $100 of actual value or fraction thereof: Provided,
I'hat it is not intended by this title to impose a tax upon an agreenent evidencing a deposit of stock certificates as collateral security
rCor money loaned thereon, which stock certificates are not actually
siold, nor upon such stock certificates so deposited: Provided further,
That the tax shall not be imposed upon deliveries or transfers to a
broker for sale, nor upon deliveries or transfers by a broker to a
customer for whom and upon whose order he has purchased same,

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

seller does not own or the certificates for which are not
within his control so as to be available for delivery at the
time when, under the rules of the Exchange, delivery must
be made. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, applicable so far as the facts of this case are
concerned, a broker who sells stock is required to make
delivery of the certificates on the next business day. If
he does not have them available, he must procure them
for the purpose of making delivery. This he may do by
purchasing or borrowing the required shares, delivery of
the certificates to be made to the broker to whom he l;as
already contracted to sell.
If he borrows them, he deposits with the lending broker
their full market price; and until the loan is returned, this
deposit is maintained, by means of daily payments back
and forth between the borrower and the lender, at the
varying level of the market value of. the shares loaned.
but such deliveries or transfers shall be accompanied by a certificate
setting forth the facts: Provided further, That in case of sale where
the evidence of transfer is shown only by the books of the company
the stamp shall be placed upon such books; and where the change of
ownership is by transfer of the certificate the stamp shall be placed
upon the certificate; and in cases of an agreement to sell or where
the transfer is by delivery of the certificate assigned in blank there
shall be made and delivered by the seller to the buyer a bill or memorandum of such sale, to. which the stamp shall be affixed; and every
bill or memorandum of sale or agreement to sell before mentioned
shall show the date thereof, the name of the seller, the amount of
the sale, and the matter or things to which it refers. Any person or
persons liable to pay the tax as herein provided, or anyone who acts
in the matter as agent or broker for such person or persons who shall
make any such sale, or who shall in pursuance of any such sale
deliver any stock or evidence of the sale of any stock or bill or memorandum thereof, as herein required, without having the proper stamps
affixed thereto with intent to evade the foregoing provisions shall be.
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
pay a fine of not exceeding $1,000 or be imprisoned not more than
six months, or both, at the discretion of the court."

452

4-OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opin.ion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The lender, who thus receives in money the full market
value of the shares--much more than he would ordinarily
realize by pledging them-usually pays interest on the
money so received, at the current rate for demand loans.
But the rate'of interest is a matter of negotiation and
agreement, and the deposit may, on occasion, carry no
interest, or the borrower of the stock may pay a premium
when the stock is greatly in demand.
During the continuance of the loan the borrowing
broker is bound by the loan contract to give the lender
all the benefits and the lender is bound to assume all the
burdens incident to ownership of the stock which is the
subject of the transaction, as though the lender had retained the stock. The borrower must accordingly credit
the lender with the amount of any dividends paid upon
the stock while the loan continues and the lender must
assume or pay to the borrower the amount of any assessments upon the stock. The lender of the stock, concurrently with the receipt of the deposit, delivers to the borrower the certificates of the stock lent, and the transaction
is evidenced by a "loan ticket," to which the broker lending the stock affixes the revenue stamps here in question.
The stock thus borrowed then becomes available for
delivery on the short sale.
The original short sale is thus completed and there
remains only the obligation of the borrowing broker,
terminable on demand, bither by the borrower or the
lender, to return the stock borrowed on repayment to him
of his cash deposit, and the obligation of the lender to
repay the deposit, with interest as agreed. The stock for
this purpose, if not provided by the customer, must be
obtained by borrowing stock of like kind and amount from
other brokers, or by purchasing the stock in the open
market and charging the customer for whose account the
sale was originally made, with the purchase price. In
that case the short sale transaction and the borrowing

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

transaction as well are brought to their conclusion by the
actual purchase of stock of which the customer was short
at the time when the sale was made and the delivery of
the stock, thus purchased, to the lender.* The return
transaction in every case is evidenced by a "borrowed
stock return ticket" to which the borrowing broker affixes
the revenue stamps. The claim of the appellants comprises the cost of stamps purchased by them and affixed
to loan tickets or to borrowed stock return tickets pursuant to Treasury regulations.
It will be observed that the completed short sale transaction usually involves four separate steps in each of
which there is either a sale or a complete transfer of all
the legal elements of ownership. These are (1) the sale
of the stock by the person effecting the short sale, followed by the transfer and delivery of the certificates for
the borrowed stock to the purchaser's broker; (2) the
transfer of the shares from the lender to the borrower,
who uses them for delivery on the customer's short sale;
(3) the purchase by the borrowing broker of the stock
required to repay the loan; and (4) the transfer and
delivery by the borrower to the lender of the certificates
for the purchased shares to replace the shares borrowed.
Each transfer may be accompanied by a physical delivery.
of certificates of the stock transferred; but the intermediate deliveries in (2) and (3) are usually eliminated
by use of the Stock Exchange Clearing House.
It is conceded that the first and third transactions are
taxable as "sales" or "agreements to sell" within the
In practice on the New York Stock Exchange, deliveries on sales
and on stock loaned and returned, evidenced by loan tickets and
borrowed stock returned tickets, are usually cleared on balance
through the Stock Exchange Clearing House, so that the certificates
pass directly from the lender to the purchaser on the short sale when
stock is borrowed, and from the seller to the lender when borrowed
stock is returned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

meaning of the statute; but it is contended that the
second and fourth are not subject to the tax, because they
involve neither a transfer of the legal title to the stock
loaned and returned, nor "deliveries" of the shares or
certificates representing them within the meaning of the
Acts of 1917 and 1918, and that taking into account the
history and purposes of the two statutes, it was not
intended to include these transactions among the taxable
transfers described.
On the argument it was also earnestly urged that the
lender of stock is in a position analogous to that of a
pledgor of the stock which he lends; that in consequence
there is no transfer of title to the stock within the meaning of the taxing provisions of the two acts, and that, in
any event the lender is in the position of a borrower of
money and the transaction falls within the proviso of the
acts exempting from the tax, deposits of stock certificates
as collateral security for money loaned.
These arguments ignore the essential legal characteristics of the loan transaction. It may be agreed for the
purpose of this discussion, as was argued at the bar, that
it is the law of many jurisdictions, including New York,
where these transactions occurred, that the relation of
the customer and the broker with whom the customer
deposits stock as security for advances, or who purchases
securities for account of the customer, is technically that
of pledgor and pledgee, with authority and power on the
part of the broker to repledge to the extent of his
advances. See Richardson v. Shaw, 209 U. S. 365, 374;
Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S. 19; Duel v. Hollins, 241
U. S. 523; Skiff v. Stoddard, 63 Conn. 198; Markham v.
Jaudon,41 N. Y. 235; Lawrence v. Maxwell, 53 N. Y. 19;
Tqussig v. Hart, 58 N. Y. 425; Caswell v. Putnam, 120
N. Y. 153. But that view of their legal relationship finds
support in the agreement between the customer and the
broker which contemplates, as the law requires, that the

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

broker should at all times have on hand specific securities
for delivery to the customer on payment of the amount of
the broker's advaices for the customer's account.
Although the broker has an implied authority to substitute other securities of the same kind and amount for the
securities which he holds for his customer, and to repledge
them to the extent of his advances, courts have not dispensed with the requirement that he should at least have,
either in his own possession or lodged with his bank on
the repledge, specific securities of the kind and amount
purchased for his customer, available for delivery to the
customer on payment of the balance due. Richardson v.
Shaw, supra; Skiff v. Stoddard, supra; Taussig v. Hart,
supra; Lawrence v. Maxwell, supra; Caswell v. Putnam,
supra; see Carlisle v. Norris, 215 N. Y. 400. For breach
of this duty he is liable, under the law of New 'York, for
conversion (Markham v. Jaudon, supra; Lawrence v.
Maxwell, supra; Taussig v. Hart, supra; Mayer v. Monzo,
221 N. Y. 442) and guilty of a criminal offense. N. Y.
Penal Law, ยง 956.
But the borrower of stock holds nothing for account of
the lender. The procedure adopted and the obligations
incurred in effecting a loan of stock and its delivery upon
a short sale neither contemplate nor admit of the retention by either the borrower or the lender of any of the
incidents of ownership in the stock loaned. The seller,
having contracted to sell securities which he does not own,
is under the necessity of acquiring dominion over stcck
of the kind and amount which he has sold, with unrestricted power of disposition of it in order that he may
fulfill his contract. Whether his broker acquires the stock
by purchase or by giving to the lender of it tbh market
value of the stock plus his personal obligation to acquire
and return to the lender, on demand, a like kind and
amount of stock, the legal effect of the transfer is the
same. Upon the physical delivery of the certificates of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

stock by the lender, with the full recognition of the right
and authority of the borrower to appropriate them to his
short sale contract, and their receipt by the purchaser, all
the incidents of ownership in the stock pass to him.
When the transaction is thus completed, neither the
lender nor the borrower retains any interest in the stock
which is the subject matter of the transaction and which
has passed to and become the property of the purchaser.
Neither the borrower nor the lender has the status of a
stockholder of the corporation whose stock was dealt in,
nor any legal relationship to it. Unlike the pledgee of
stock who must have specific stock available for the
pledgor on payment of his loan, the borrower of stock has
no interest in the stock nor the right to demand it from
any other. For that reason he can be neither a pledgee,
trustee nor bailee for the lender, and he is not one "with
whom stock has been deposited as collateral security for
money loaned." For the incidents of ownership, the
lender has substituted the personal obligation,' wholly
contractual, of the borrower to restore him, on demand, to
the economic position in which he would have been, as
owner of the stock, had the loan transaction not been
entered into.
When the borrower returns the borrowed stock, he
acquires it by purchase or by borrowing again and in the
process acquires and transfers to the lender all the incidents of legal ownership in securities which neither
possessed before.
We therefore conclude that both the loan of stock and
the return of borrowed stock involve "transfers of legal
title to shares of stock" within the express terms of the
statute; and while we are not called upon to define or
enumerate the precise conditions which must attend the
delivery of a certificate of stock, under other circumstances, to bring it within the taxing provisions of the
Act, we think it clear that deliveries of indorsed cer-

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

tificates of stock, incidental to these transfers of legal title,
are "deliveries of . . . shares or certificates of stock"
within the language of the statute.
It follows that the borrowing of stock and the return
of borrowed stock are both subject to the tax unless there
is to be found in the legislation now under consideration
or in its history, a purpose sufficiently definite and controlling to exclude the transactions in question from the
operation of its applicable language.
In earlier revenue legislation, the Act of 1898 (30 Stat.
448, 458) and the Act of 1914 (38 Stat. 745, 759), a stamp
tax was imposed on " all sales or agreements to sell or
memoranda of sales or deliveries or transfers of shares or
certificates of stock." No attempt appears to have been
made under these statutes to impose a tax on loans of
stock or returns of borrowed stock. In March, 1915, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, in response to an
inquiry which incorrectly stated that the transfer involved
in borrowing and returning borrowed stock "does not
represent a change of ownership," made a decision (T. D.
2182) that such transactions were not subject to the tax
under the Act of 1914. Neither of these acts contains the
words "or transfers of legal title to shares or certificates"
which, as we have indicated, are of significance in the
Acts of 1917 and 1918 because precisely applicable to the
transfers under consideration.
The Act of 1917 became a law on October 3, 1917. On
March 23, 1918, the Attorney General rendered an opinion
(31 Op. 255) that the transfers of stock involved in loans
of stock and returns of borrowed stock were subject to
the tax under the Act. This opinion was adopted by the
Treasury Department in its ruling of March 30, 1918.
T. D. 2685. When the bill which became the Revenue
Act of 1918 was pending, the attention of the Senate Committee on Finance was directed to the opinion of the
Attorney General and the ruling of the Treasury Depart-

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ment, and it was urged in public hearing (Sept. 11, 1918,)
to amend the bill so as to include "mere loans of stock or
the returns thereof" within the proviso exempting from
the tax, deposits of certificates of stock as collateral security. The recommended change was not adopted. The
provision of the Act of 1917 was re-enacted without substantial change and continued on the statute books until
the adoption of the Revenue Act of November 23, 1921,
(c. 136, 42 Stat. 227), when the proposed change was
incorporated in it (Title XI, Schedule A, par. 3, 42 Stat.
304).
We can find in this history no substantial basis for the
contention that there was a legislative adoption of any
settled administrative construction of the statute adverse
to the position now taken by the Government. On the
contrary, the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1918
without material change of the provision in question
must, we think, be taken as indicating a purpose to continue in force the existing law as interpreted by the
Attorney General (United States v. G. Falk & Bro., 204
U. S. 143) ;. and when Congress adopted in the amended
law of 1921 the very suggestion made and rejected two
years before, it then intended to effect a change in the
law as it had previously existed. Smietanka v. First
Trust & Savings Bank, 257 U. S.602.
Nor are we able to find in the statute any expression of
a general purpose to exclude from the application of its
express language the type of transactions now under consideration. It evidenced a purpose not only to tax all
sales or agreements to sell which had been previously
taxed, but to extend the taxing provision to all transfers
of legal title to shares or certificates whether technical
sales or not. It was not suggested at the argument that
other forms of transfer, not sales and not expressly excepted from the operation of the Act by this proviso, such
as gifts or transfers in trust for the benefit of the trans-

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.

459

Syllabus.

443

ferror, were not subject to the tax; and the Department
has consistently ruled thAt they were. See T. D. Regulations 40.
As already indicated, the borrowing of stock and the
returning of borrowed stock do not fall within the description of those classes of transactions expressly exempted
from the tax. Nor do they so resemble them in a popular
and non-technical sense as to warrant their inclusion
among the exceptions. Even in a loose and colloquial
sense it cannot be said that the loan of stock is a "deposit
of stock certificates as collateral security for money loaned
thereon." We therefore conclude that while there is no
indication of a purpose to impose a discriminatory tax
upon short sales or transactions necessarily involved in
short sales, there was a general purpose to tax all transfers
of legal ownership of shares of stock which includes those
made necessary in order to complete a short sale. It follows that they are subject to the tax imposed upon the
class of transactions in which they are included.
Judgment affirmed.
INDEPENDENT WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

_ECOND CIRCUIT.

Argued October 23, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.
1. A suit by an exclusive licensee under a patent to protect his rights
against infringement by a stranger, without joining the patentowner as plaintiff, does not arise under the patent laws (Rev.
Stats. ยง 4921) but is based merely on contract rights, and is not
maintainable in the federal court in the absence of diversity of
citizenship. P. 466.
2. An exclusive licensee may bring suit under Rev. Stats. ยง 4921
by joining the patent-owner as a co-plaintiff, when the latter is
out of the jurisdiction and declines to join, and when such suit is
No. 87.

