OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

consider whether, under the circumstances shown, the
making of the bid, the signing of the contract and execution of the bond would be within the protection of the
commerce clause, if these acts stood alone. But it is
certain that, when all afe taken together, the things done
by plaintiff in error in Arkansas before obtaining the
permission constitute or include intrastate business. The
delivery of the materials to the subcontractor was essential to the building of the bridge, and that was an intrastate and not an interstate transaction. The fact that
the materials had moved from Missouri into Arkansas did
not make the delivery of them to the subcontractor interstate commerce. So far as concerns the question here
involved, the situation is the equivalent of what it would
have been if the materials had been shipped into the State
and held for sale in a warehouse, and had been .furnished
to the subcontractor by a dealer. We think it plain that
the plaintiff in error did business of a local and intrastate
character in Arkansas before it obtained permission.
General Railway Signal Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 500;
Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; York Manufacturing

Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

dissents.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
No. 2, Original.

Argued October 5, 1925.-Decided November 16,
1925.

1. Commissioners appointed in this case to run, locate and designate
part of the boundary between Arkansas and Tennessee along the
middle of the main navigable channel of tie Mississippi River as
it was in 1876 immediately prior to changes wrought by axulsion,
properly made a preliminary investigation and 'a profisional survey
and location of the linein -advance Qofhearing testimony on the
subject. P. 154.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
152

Opinion of the Court.

2. The objection that the line recommended by the commissioners
was established by them without considering the evidence, held
not lustified. Id.
3. 'Absolute .accuracy not being attainable, a degree of certainty that
is reasonable as a practical matter, is all that is required in locating
this boundary. The commissioners therefore did not err in accepting as a general guide, subject to dorrections by other evidence
available, a map made by a government engineer shortly before the
avulsion, based on a reconnoissance by steamboat, conducted without accurate measurements or exact instrumental observations,
for the purpose of ascertaining the general appearance of the
river and gaining a general idea of the shape and location of the
channel. P. 155.
4. Opinions of some witnesses that the line can not be located with
reasonable certainty, held of little weight as against the facts
proven and the determination of the commission. P. 157.
5. Costs and expenses apportioned equally between the two States;
except the cost of unnecessary printing of testimony, which is
placed upon the party which occasioned it. P. 158.
Exceptions overruled and final decree directed.

On defendant's exceptions to the report of the commissioners. appointed to run, locate and designate part of the
boundary between Arkansas and Tennessee. See 246
U. S.158; 247 U. S. 461.
Mr. Caruthers Ewing, for the complainant.
Mr. G. T. Fitzhugh, for the defendant.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The commissioners; who were named by the decree
entered June 10, 1918, (247 U. S. 461), and directed to
run, locate and designate the boundary line between the
States along the portion of the Mississippi River that was
left dry as a result of the avulsion in 1876, filed their
report, May 24, 1921. They correctly understood,-and
counsel for the parties agreed with them,-that the directions contained in the decree applied to the two branches
of the river as it formerly flowed,-the Devil's Elbow

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

around Centennial Island and Island 37, and also the old
river bed between Brandywine Island and the Tennessee
shore. They found and recommended a line indicated by
courses and distances set out in, and shown on a map
attached to, their report. The defendant filed numerous
exceptions which need not be quoted at length. The
substance of its contentions is sufficiently indicated below.
Defendant'asserts that the commissioners established
the boundary line before its witnesses were heard and
before cross examination of any witness for the plaintiff.
But the record does not support the contention. In July,
1918, the commissioners examined the territory involved.
In October, 1919, they took a survey party to the place
to commence work. In 1920, they completed their surveys, including the line, then only provisional, which
later was recommended in their report. The making of
these surveys in advance of hearing the testimony was an
appropriate step in the investigation. While the field
work was in progress, the commissioners spent most of
the time in the field, assisting, and examining the topography and comparing the evidence. Facts disclosed by
the survey 'and so gathered well might be deemed to be
useful to enable the commissioners the better to understand and determine the value of other evidence. The
report states that the commissioners spared no effort to
secure maps and evidence indicating the course of the
channel from the earliest record down to the time of the
investigation. And that statement seems well supported.
There is nothing to justify the suggestion that the commissioners established the line without considering the
evidence.
Defendant insists that the middle of the main navigable
channel as it existed before the avulsion could not be
located with reasonable certainty and that the commissioners should have so reported (decree, par. 5). It
maintains that the recommended boundary, except that

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
152

Opinion of the Court.

portion between Island 37 and Arkansas, is based entirely
on a reconnoissance made by Major Charles R. Suter,
Corps of Engineers, United States Army, in 1874, and
insists that the Suter line is not established by the evidence. Objection is also made to the location of the
channel on the east side of Island 39, and to certain other
parts of the commissioners' line.
The boundary line to be located is the middle of the
main channel of the river asit existed in 1783 subject to
subsequent changes occurring through natural and gradual processes. In 1823, the location of the river was
substantially as indicated on a map referred to in the
record as Humphrey's map, and there has been no map
or survey, which tied the channel to any fixed monument,
showing the location of the river as of any later date.
The. evidence shows that such channels are liable to
change substantially from time to time. And the parties
stipulated that from 1823 to 1876 the river and land lines
had been altered as shown in the opinion of the Supreme.
Court of Tennessee in the case of State v. Pulp Co., 119
Tenn. 47, 59. The Humphrey map is on page 60 and the
Suter map on page 62 of the opinion. The changes found
to have taken place in this period need not be specified.
There is nothing to indicate that the 1823 map is useful
as a guide to the boundary line as established by the interlocutory decree. The reconnoissance of 1874 was made
pursuant to an Act of Congress approved June 23, 1874,
c. 457, 18 Stat. 237, 242, providing for surveys and estimates for the improvement 9f certain transportation
routes to the seaboard. Maj6r Suter was assigned to
make examination of the Mississippi River from Cairo to
the Gulf. His party had a government steamboat and,
in the performance of the work, passed over the part of
the river here involved four times. The courses of the
channel were taken by compass. Distances were determined by the speed of the boat. Widths of the river were

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

estimated, and to some extent these estimates were
checked by triangulation. The purpose was to ascertain
the appearance of the river and to get a general idea of
the shape and location of the channel. No survey by
actual measurements was made, and accuracy was not
attained. From the evidence and a stipulation of the
parties, the commissioners found that there had been no
material change in the river between the time of the
reconnoissance in 1874 and the avulsion in 1876. While
not made according to actual measurements, the Suter
map may be said to present the general situation as it
existed immediately before the avulsion. The commissioners did not follow the map at all places and did not
take it as their sole guide for the ascertainment of any
part of the line. On satisfactory evidence that was not
contradicted, the commissioners found that Island 37 was
on the Tennessee side of the main channel as it existed
in 1876, and not on the Arkansas side, as shown by the
Suter map. The commissioners also found that the
United States township plats show that Island 39 at the
foot of Brandywine was included in the public surveys
of Arkansas, and that the old maps which were used as
guides for the navigation of the river show that island
very close to or against the Arkansas side. They report
that they could not find any evidence to the contrary.
And so they determined the main channel to have been
on the easterly side of that island. As their conclusion is
well sustained by the evidence it is immaterial whether,
as stated in the report, Suter's map shows a line on each
side of the island.
Counsel for the defendant asserts that, "A map, to be
of any value for the purpose of locating any particular
lines or objects thereon, must be bawpd upon a, survey
accurately made by measurement and instrumental observations, and must be a faithful and correct delineation
of a faithfiul survey, in every detail." And on that basis,

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
152

157

Opinion of the Court.

he argues that the Suter map is valueless as a means
accurately to fix the old channel, because not properly
tied to some point or monument. But the standard demanded is not applicable. The thing to be done must be
regarded. It is to locate the boundary along that portion
of the bed of the river that was left dry as a result of the
avulsion, according to the middle of the main navigable
channel at the time the current ceased to flow therein as
a result of the avulsion. Absolute accuracy is not attainable. A degree of certainty that is reasonable as a practical matter, having regard to thq circumstances, is all that
is required. The line of the greatest depth of water is
not necessarily the middle of the channel. Minnesota v.
Wisconsin, 252 U. S. 273, 282. The location, limits and
width of the main navigable channel were not precisely
defined or permanent. The determination of its location
involved more than mere measurements and required the
exercise of judgment based on experience. The degree of
accuracy insisted on is not reasonable or practicable.
Defendant's principal reliance is on opinions expressed
by some of the witnesses to the effect that the line cannot
be located with reasonable certainty. But such opinions
are of little weight as against the facts shown and the
determination of the commission. In addition to the
commissioners' careful investigation in the field, there
was the testimony of steamboat men and others who were
familiar with the situation as it existed before the avulsion in 1876. It is sufficient to say that when taken in
connection with the Suter map and considered in the light
of established physical facts and other evidence, the tesfimony of these witnesses clearly establishes the line reported by the commissioners. The exceptions are without merit and are overruled. The report of the commissioners is confirmed.
Plaintiff paid the cost of printing the report and testB
mony, and moves that such cost be borne by defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

158

Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

The reasons stated by plaintiff are that defendant alone
was dissatisfied with the report and, as a condition to
excepting thereto, required plaintiff to pay for such printing, and that the exceptions are frivolous. We are of the
opinion that the printing of the evidence was not necessary, and require defendant to bear the cost of that part
of the printing. All other expenses, including the commissioners' compensation, will be divided equally between
the parties.
The decree will be in accordance with this opinion. At
any time within forty days the parties may submit suggestions as to form.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. JOHN L. ROPER
LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS
VIRGINIA.

OF

No. 79. Submitted October 21, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.
1. A loss due to misdelivery of a shipment by the carrir is not
included, as damage " in transit" or otherwise, within the classes
of cases mentioned in the second proviso of the first Cummins.
Amendment, as to which classes it provides that no notice of claim
nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition precedent to
recovery. P. 161.
2. Section 10 of the Bills of Lading Act, which declares that a carrier
delivering goods to any one not lawfully entitled to their possession
shall be liable to any one having a right of property or possession
in the goods, etc., does not excuse a shipper, whose goods were
misdelivered, from compliance with s stipulation of his bill of lading
relieving the carrier from liability if claim were not made within
six months after a reasonable time for delivery had elapsed. P. 162.
138 Va. 377, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Appeals of Virginia affirming a judgment for 'damages
in an action against the petitioner for misdelivery of
goods.

