OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

158

Statement of the Case.

269 U. S.

The reasons stated by plaintiff are that defendant alone
was dissatisfied with the report and, as a condition to
excepting thereto, required plaintiff to pay for such printing, and that the exceptions are frivolous. We are of the
opinion that the printing of the evidence was not necessary, and require defendant to bear the cost of that part
of the printing. All other expenses, including the commissioners' compensation, will be divided equally between
the parties.
The decree will be in accordance with this opinion. At
any time within forty days the parties may submit suggestions as to form.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. JOHN L. ROPER
LUMBER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS
VIRGINIA.

OF

No. 79. Submitted October 21, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.
1. A loss due to misdelivery of a shipment by the carrir is not
included, as damage " in transit" or otherwise, within the classes
of cases mentioned in the second proviso of the first Cummins.
Amendment, as to which classes it provides that no notice of claim
nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition precedent to
recovery. P. 161.
2. Section 10 of the Bills of Lading Act, which declares that a carrier
delivering goods to any one not lawfully entitled to their possession
shall be liable to any one having a right of property or possession
in the goods, etc., does not excuse a shipper, whose goods were
misdelivered, from compliance with s stipulation of his bill of lading
relieving the carrier from liability if claim were not made within
six months after a reasonable time for delivery had elapsed. P. 162.
138 Va. 377, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Appeals of Virginia affirming a judgment for 'damages
in an action against the petitioner for misdelivery of
goods.

DAVIS v. ROPER LUMBER CO.
158

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. A. A. McLaughlin and R. M. Hughes, Jr., for
the petitioner.
Mr. Claude M. Bain for respondent.
The shipment was in transit. Blish Milling Co. v.
Railway, 241 U. S. 190; Railroad v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S.
588; Erie R. R. v. Shuart, 250 U. S. 465; Michigan Central v. Mark Owen & Co., 256 U. S. 427; Brown v. Western
Union, 85 S. C. 495; Jennings etc. Co. v. Virginian
Railway, 137 Va. 207. The proviso is not limited to
cases where there is actual physical damage. Barrett v.
Van Pelt, 268 U. S. 85; New York etc. R. Co. v. Peninsula Produce Exchange, 240 U. S. 34; Norfolk Exchange
v. Norfolk Southern R. R., 116 Va. 466. The proviso is
a part of § 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act. We see
no good reason why the words "loss, damage or injury"
should be construed actual physical damage in one part
of the section and not in another part. The case comes
within the proviso and no notice or filing of claim was
necessary. Barrett v. Van Pelt, supra; Gillette Razor Co.
v. Davis, 278 Fed. 864; Hailey v. Oregon Short Line, 253
Fed. 569; Morrell v. Northern Pacific, 46 N. Dak. 535;
Mann v. Fairfield Transp. Co., 176 N. C. 104; Scott v.
American Railway Express, 189 N. C. 377; Winstead v.
East CarolinaR., 186 N. C. 58.
The carrier is liable under the Bills of Lading Act, § 10.
The cause of action is laid for carelessly and negligently
delivering the shipment without surrender of the bill of
lading; and for the failure and refusal of the defendant
to deliver the shipment to the lawful holder of the bill of
lading.
MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

There is here for review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia which affirmed a judgment

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

of the Court of Law and Chancery against petitioner for
$1,046.88. 138 Va. 377. June 24, 1918, at New Bern,
North Carolina, respondent delivered to petitioner, then
operating the Norfolk Southern Railroad, a carload of
scrap iron for transportation over that line and connecting
lines to Clarksburg, West Virginia. Petitioner issued a
bill of lading, consigning the shipment to the order of
respondent, "notify George Yampolsky at Clarksburg."
It contained a clause requiring surrender of the bill of
lading properly endorsed before delivery of the property;
and provided that, "Claims for loss, damage or delay must
within six
.
be made in writing to the carrier .
months after delivery of the property, or in case of failure
to make delivery, then within six months after a reasonable
time for delivery has elapsed. Unless claims are so made
the carrier shall not be liable." The shipment arrived at
Clarksburg, July 15, 1918,.and on that day was delivered
to Yampolsky without surrender of the bill of lading and
without the knowledge of the respondent, who at all .times
has been its lawful holder. No claim was made by respondent until March 5, 1920.
The Act of Congress of March 4, 1915 (known as the
first Cummins Amendment), c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, 1197,
amending § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, requires
a common carrier receiving property for transportation
in interstate commerce to issue a receipt or bill of lading
therefor, and makes it liable to the holder for any loss,
damage, or injury to such property, and contains these
provisos: "Provided further, That it shall-be unlawful for
'any such common carrier to provide by rule, contract,
rogulation, or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice
of claims than ninety days and for the filing of claims for
ashorter period than four months, and for the institution
of suits than two years: Provided, however, That if the
oss, damage, or injury complained of was due to delay or
damage while being loaded or unloaded, or damage in

DAVIS v. ROPER LUMBER CO.,
158

Opinion of the Court.

transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of
claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition
precedent to recovery."
There is presented the question whether this case is one
in which the right of recovery may be made to depend
upon the making of claim as required by the bill of lading.
The provisos in § 20 have been recently considered by this
court in Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U. S. 85. It was there
pointed out that the purpose of the second proviso is to
take some cases out of the general rule declared by the
first proviso. And, in view of the inapt language and defective structure of the second, it was held that the word,
"damaged" should be read, " damage," and that the
comma after "unloaded" should be eliminated. It was
also held that "carelessness or negligence " is an element
in each case of loss, damage, or injury-there named. The
judgment now before us was given prior to that decision.
The state court held that the damage resulting to respondent from the misdelivery occurred while the shipment was "in transit," within the meaning of the proviso,
and that therefore the provision of the bill of lading
requiring laim to be made was invalid. It said that "in
transit" means at any time after the property has been
received by the initial carrier and before delivery in accordance with the contract of carriage.
But that view cannot be sustained. The loss was due
solely to misdelivery; that is, "a failure to fhake delivery"
in accordance with the, bill of lading. Georgia, Fla. &
Ala. Ry. v. Blish Co., 241 U. S. 190, 195. As construed by
this court the second proviso embraces three classes: (1)
loss, damage, or injury due to delay, (2) damage while
being loaded or unloaded, (3).damage in transit. Clearly,
misdelivery is not in the first or second class. And, unless
it is in the third class, the proviso does not apply. The
context shows that the phrase, " in transit," was not intended to have the broad meaning attributed to it by the

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

state court. In the proviso, claims on account of damage
"while being loaded or unloaded" are separate and distinct from those for "damage in transit." The creation
of the former class would be wholly unnecessary and inappropriate if the latter is to be taken to include both
classes. Loading precedes, and unloading follows, transit.
In the ordinary and usual meaning of the word, "transit"
ends before delivery at destination. Misdelivery is not
mentioned in the proviso; and the language used is inconsistent with and negatives any intention to include claims.
for damages on account of misdelivery in the class defined as "damage in transit."
Respondent -contends that under § 10 of the Bills of
Lading Act, c. 415, 39 Stat. 538, 540, it was not necessary
to comply with the requirement of the bill of lading. The
-point is without merit. That section provides: "Where
a carrier delivers goods to one who is not lawfully entitled
to the possession of them, the carrier shall be liable to
anyone having a right of property or possession in the
goods . . ." The rule of liability so declared is not
inconsistent with the second proviso in § 20, which relates
merely to the enforcement of liability. The provisions of
both acts are to be read together, and applied in harmony
with the bill of lading. More than nineteen months
elapsed before respondent made any claim. There is
nothing in the statutory provisions relied on by respondent to excuse its failure to make claim within the time
specified in- the shippihg contract.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

