172

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

ARKANSAS EX REL. UTLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL, FOR THE USE OF CRAIGHEAD COUNTY,
v. ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 74.

Argued October 22, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. A mandamus issued by the federal District Court for the purpose
of satisfying a judgment previously entered therein against a
county, and commanding tax officials to assess all property in the
county at its full value and continue so doing until the judgment
shall be paid, but laying down no further details as to the maimer
of making assessments, is to be taken as requiring that they be
made in accordance with the laws of the State, leaving the question
whether an assessment, when made, complies with those laws to be
determined, in appropriate proceedings, by that court or by the
state courts. P. 174.
2. Hence, where, in purported compliance with such mandamus, the
property in the county was assessed at full value for county taxes
(out of which tho federal court judgment was to be paid) but
at one-half its value for state, municipal and school taxes,
and the state Supreme Court, adjudging that the discrepancy was
contrary to , uniformity requirement of the state constitution
and not in accord with the direction of the federal court, refused
to enforce collection of the county taxes for more than 50%,held, that the judgment of the state court plainly did not deny
the authority or question the validity of the mandamus of the
federal court, and was not reviewable in this Court under ยง 237,
Jud. Code. P. 176.
Writ of error to review 162 Ark. 443, dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
affirming judgments for less than the amounts sought in
actions by a county to collect taxes assessed against the
St. Louis-San Francisco Railroad Company and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company.
Mr. Horace Sloan, with whom Messrs. J. S. Utley, Attorney General of Arkansas, and A. P. Patton were on the
brief, for petitioner.

ARKANSAS v. ST. LOUIS-SAN FRAN. RY. CO. 173
Opinion of the Court.

172

Messrs. Thomas B. Pryor, Gordon Frierson,William J.
Orr, Edward L. Westbrooke and Edward T. Miller, for
the defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE STONE. delivered the opinion of the Court.

Two separate suits, consolidated in the trial court, were
brought by plaintiff in error in the Chancery Court for
the Western District of Craighead County, Arkansas, pursuant to statute (ยง 10,204, et seq. of Crawford & Moses
Digest) to recover from the defendants overdue county
taxes assessed against them for the years 1921-1922.
The assessments in question purport to have been
made in compliance with a peremptory writ of mandamus
issued by the United States District Court for the Western
District of Arkansas. The Maccabees, an incorporated
fraternal order, relator in the mandamus proceeding, had
previously recovered judgment against Craighead County
on certain county warrants in the United States District
Court, jurisdiction having been invoked on grounds of
diversity of citizenship. The mandamus proceeding,
which was brought in aid of the judgment, resulted in an
order directing the tax officials having jurisdiction in the
premises, "to assess, at its full value in money, all property in Craighead County and to continue said assessment at its full value in money until the judgment of the
plaintiff

.

.

.

shall have been paid in full; and it ap-

pearing that the property in said County has heretofore

been assessed at not exceeding 50% of its assessed value,

it is ordered that said mandamus require'that the total
assessment made hereunder shall be at least double the
amount of the total assessment heretofore made." The
respondents, in what purported to be a compliance with
the mandamus order, assessed all the property in Craighead County, for all taxes except the general county tax,
at the old valuation of fifty per cent; but for the general
county tax, out of which the judgment of the Maccabees

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

was to be paid, they made a separate assessment on all
property at a valuation of one hundred per cent.
In the Chancery Court the defendants contested the
validity of the assessment, and judgment was entered for
only one-half of the tax assessed against them for general
county purposes. On appeal, the Supreme Court of Arkansas held that no tax could be lawfully assessed for
those purposes upon a valuation in excess of the fifty per
cent. valuation on which the assessment for other taxing
purposes was based, and affirmed the judgment below.
162 Ark. 443.
The plaintiff in error invokes the jurisdiction of this
Court under Judicial Code, ยง 237, alleging that the Supreme Court of Arkansas has drawn in question the validity of an authority exercised under the United States and
has decided against its validity, in refusing to enforce the
collection of overdue taxes upon an assessinent ordered
by the federal court; and assigns as error that in so doing
the state court has refused to give effect to the judgment
and, mandamus of the District Court, in contravention
of the judicial power granted to the federal courts by
Article 3 of the Constitution, and Acts of Congress pursuant to it, and in contravention of Clause 2 of Article 6
(making the Constitution and laws of the United States
the supreme law of the land).
In holding invalid the assessment as made for general
county purposes, the Supreme Court of Arkansas disclaimed any purpose to attack collaterally the judgment
of the Unitedf States District Court, or to deny its full
force and effect as rendered. It rested its decision on the
narrow ground that the assessment upon the property
of defendants in error was not made on a valuation uniform within Craighead County for all purposes of taxation, state,. county, municipal and school, as required by
the state constitution (Article 16, ยง 5; Hays v. Missouri
Pacific R. R. Co., 159 Ark. 101), and that as made the

ARKANSAS v. ST. LOUIS-SAN FRAN. RY. CO. 175
172

Opinion of the Court.

assessment did not comply with the judgment of mandamus which specifically required the tax officials to assess
at full value all property in Craighead County. Since
the court deemedi that the assessment complied neither
with the requirements of the constitution nor with the
directions of the judgment of the District Court, it held
that there was no denial of the authority of the judgment
in holding the assessment invalid under the state constitution.
If the mandamus order had in terms directed the
assessment to be made as it was in fact made by the taxing officials, or if the assessment had been held to be
invalid on the ground that, although made as directed,
it was not unifoim with the valuation employed in other
counties of the State, questions would have been presented which are not raised by this record. We might
then have had to consider whether the determination of
the state court did not, in effect, attack collaterally the
judgment of the District Court and deny its authority,
even though that judgment rested on a different view of
the state constitution than that adopted by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas. See United States ex rel. v. Jimmerson, 222 Fed. 489, and )United States ex rel. v. Cargill,263
Fed. 856.
These are questions which we are not called upon to
decide here; for we find no necessary conflict between
the mandamus order of the District Court and the constitution of the State as interpreted and applied to the
assessment by the state Supreme Court. The District
Court undoubtedly had jurisdiction to compel the assessing officers of the county to levy a tax for the purpose
of securing satisfaction of its judgment. Memphis v.
Brown, 97 U. S. 300; United States v. Fort Scott, 99 U. S.
152. For that purpose it had jurisdiction to determine
what form of assessment would accord with the laws and

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the constitution of the State of Arkansas and to prescribe
the manner in which the assessments should be levied.
Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166; Prout v. Starr,
188 U. S. 537.
But in directing the assessment to be made within the
county on the basis of a uniform valuation, the judgment
did not specify the mode of assessment for different tax
purposes; it did not direct that the assessment at an increased valuation should be made only for county taxation. Being silent with respect to these details, it must
be taken to direct an assessment within the county at full
valuation, in accordance with the laws of the State, leaving to be determined, by proceedings appropriately had
in either the District Court or the state -court, the question whether the assessment aQtually made 6omplied with
those laws. No proceedings were had to secure a modification of the judgment of the District Court so that it
would direct the assessment to be made in the mode actually employed, or to compel an assessment on a uniform
valuation for all tax purposes, on the theory that such
uniformity was required by the state law, and in the
view, which we adopt, that the judgment required an
assessment to be made within the county according to
that law.
In that situation we do not find any basis for the contention that the authority of the judgment of the District
Court was denied or its validity questioned by the determination of the state court that the assessment as
made within the county was invalid. The mandamus not
having prescribed the particular method of assessing the
tax, the state court was left free to determine whether
the assessment was made according to law, and in so doing it did not determine any matter which had been adjudicated by the District Court or refuse to give full effect
to its judgment.
The writ of error is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

