L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD Co.

217

Syllabus.

204

profits available for distribution. To accomplish the purpose of Congress it was necessary that the dividend be
deemed to have been paid out of the available profits or
earnings of the most recent year or years. Its intention
so to provide was adequately expressed by the use of the
phrase "most recently accumulated" in connection with
the words ".undivided profits or surplus." As, in the case
at bar, there were profits of the year 1917 ample to cover
all dividends, those here in suit must be deemed to have
been paid therefrom.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR, JUSTICE BUT-LER, dissent.
LOUISVILLE

&

NASHVILLE

RAILROAD

CO. v.

SLOSS-SHEFFIELD STEEL & IRON. COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF' APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUJ Mt.

No. 25.

Argued Aprit 23, 1925.--Decided November 23, 1925.

1. The case is properly here on writ of error, therefore certiorari is
denied. P. 223.
2. Upon review of a judgment enforcing a reparation order made by
the Interstate 'Cojnmerce Commission in lieu of an earlier one, the
carrier contended'4that the later order, though less in amount, was
nevertheless void, because by it the commission not merely eliminated items inadvertently included in the earlier order but, without
notice to the carrier, or opportunity to be heard, added others
which had been inadvertently omitted. Held that, assuming it
otherwise void, the later order, having been made on petition of
the shipper, could be treated as effecting a remittitur of part of the
-award, and the action would stand as one upon the original order
(which was annexed to the complaint and introduced in evidence);
appropriate amendments of the pleadings, in that regard, being
considered as made in this Court, and alleged errors of the trial
court, in ruling on evidence concerning the scope of the later order,

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

being disregarded as not affecting the substantial rights of the.
pa~ies. P. 223.
3. A prayer for reparation, though lacking in details of specific claims,
will invoke the jurisdiction of the Commission and stop the running
of the two year statute of limitations, if such that under ordinary
legal procedure the details could be supplied by amendment or bill
of particulars. P. 226.
4. Where a claim for reparation, incidental to a proceeding to reduce
rates, was first denied by the Commission, but later granted on
a petition for rehearing, held, that neither the delay of a year
and upwards in' filing such petition nor the subsequent delay in
deciding it deprived the Commission of jurisdiction of the claim and
let in the two year statute of limitations, there being then no rule
limiting the time for filing the petition, and its entertainment
under the circumstances being in accordance with the practice of
the Commission. P. 228.
5. A prayer for reparation in a proceeding to reduce future rates
should not be limited by a narrow construction to losses suffered
by the complaining shipper before the proceeding was begun, thus
excluding those to be suffered while it is pending. P. 229.
6. A complaint for reparation which is sufficiently broad to cover
relief as to rates over connecting lines, will stop the two year statute of limitations from running for the initial carrier proceeded
against, though not for the connecting carriers, until they are made
parties. P. 230.
7. The carriers participating in forming an excessive joint through
rate are jointly and severally liable for resulting damages to shippers, without regard to the division of the rate among the carriers.
P. 231.
8. A manufactarer sold and shipped pig iron f. o. b. destination, to
buyers named as consignees in straight bills of lading; the iron was
invoiced and charged on the seller's books at the full delivered price,
and the consignees physically paid the freight upon acceptance of
delivery; the sales contracts, unknown to the carrier, declared the
price to be based on the existing freight rate (specifying it) and
provided: that the buyers should have the benefit of any decline,
but must pay any advance, in the freight rate, that the freight
should be paid in cash and the balance (of the price) 30 days from
average date of monthly deliveries, and that the seller would not
be liable for any overcharge in freight when correct rate was
expressed in the bill of lading. The freight rates proving excessive,
Held, that reparation, in the amount of the excess, was properly

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

219

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

awarded (Interstate Commerce Act § 16,) to the consignor. As a
seller in a competitive market, the consignor was directly affected
by the rate; the burden of the published rate rested on the consignor ulsder the bill of lading; the consignee, in paying the freight,
acted solely as the consignor's agent; and the equities between
them were no concern of the carrier. So. Pacific Co. v. DarnellTaenzer Co., 245 U. S. 531, distinguished. P. 234.
9. In an order of. reparation for payment of excessive freight charges,
interest may be allowed by the Commission from time of such
payment. P. 238.
10. A judgment enforcing a reparation order may include interest on
the amount of the order from its date, even though that amount
be itself in part made up of interest. P. 240.
295 Fed. 53, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed, with a modification, a judgment of the
District Court on an order of reparation made by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Certiorari was applied for and denied.
Messrs. E. Perry Thomas and Charles J. Rixey, with
whom Messrs. W. A. Northcutt, John S. Stone and S. P.
Smith were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff sustained n6 damage as the result of the
rates being unreasonable; it did not pay and bear the
freight charges. Ramsey & G. Mfg. Co. v. Kelser, 55
N. J. L. 320; United States v. R. P. Andrews & Co., 207
U. S. 228; Dissenting Opinion, 40 I. C. C. 738; Barnett
& Record Co. v. Fall, 62 Tex. Civ. App. 391; Jobbs v.
Joyce-Watkins Co., 287 Mo. 39. Southern,Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-TaenzerLumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, distinguished.
See also JennisonBros. v. Chicago& N. W. Ry., 133 Minn.
268.
In awarding reparation the Commission misconstrued
the Darnell-Taenzer Case, sypra. It appears from the
opinions of the Circuit Court'of Appeals in that case (221
Fed. 890, 229 Fed. 1022, see also 190 Fed. 659), that,
although the shipments were sold by the Darnell-Taenzer

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Arginent for Plaintiff in Error.

269 IT. S.

Company f. o. b. destination, the purchaser or consignee in
fact paid the freight to the carrier at point of destination.
Terms of the contract here, which did not exist there, providing that the consignee is to have the benefit of any
decline and bear the burden of any advance in the freight
rate, rebut the implication that the seller is to bear the
freight and show conclusively that the purchaser or
consignee in paying it to the carrier acts for himself and not as the agent of the seller. The seller in
effect assigned to and vested in the purchaser in this case
whatever right of action might arise in favor of the seller
against the carrier for excessive or unreasonable charges.
See'Spiller v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry., 253 U. S. 117.
Subsequent cases conflict with the construction and interpretation placed by the Commission upon the decision in
the Darnell-Taenzer Case. Pittsburgh,etc. Ry. v. Fink,
250 U. S. 577; New York Central v. York & Whitney Co.,
256 U. S. 406; L. & N. R. R. v. Central Iron Co., 265
U. S. 57. See also 4 Ruling Case Law, p. 857, par. 310;
6 Cyc., p. 500; Elliott on Railroads, Vol. 4 (3d ed.),
p. 872, par. 2361; Great Northern R. R. v. Hyde, 279
Fed. 783; Taylor v. Iron Works, 124 Fed. 826; Gates v.
Ryan, 37 Fed. 154.
There is such relationship of contract between the
carrier and the consignee who accepts from the carrier
a shipment of goods under a bill of lading imposing on
the consignee the burden of paying the freight, that the
carrier can maintain an action against the consignee for
the lawful freight if not paid, or for an undercharge when
not paid in full. Clearly then, there is such privity between the two that, when the consignee pays the carrier
an excessive freight rate, the consignee can maintain an
action against the carrier for recovery of the excess. If
we look only to the bills of lading, under which, presumptively, the title to the shipments passed to the consignee at the point of origin upon the delivery there to

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

221

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the carrier, the consignee is the only person that could
maintain an action against the carrier for any excessive
charges paid by him. For, since the consignee, who actually accepted the shipments and paid the freight under
bills of lading, is presumptively, so far as the carrier is concerned; the owner of the shipment and became legally
liable to the carrier for the lawful freight charges, he
is, presumptively, the only person damaged as a result of
having paid excessive charges.
The order of reparation is void, because invoked by supplemental petition, or application for rehearing, of which
the defendant had no notice and no opportunity to be
heard. The order is void to the extent of the inclusion
therein of reparation on shipments transported during
the period from April 17, 1910, to April 16, 1912. The
original petition of April 16, 1912, was not sufficient under
§§ 13 and 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act and under
the rules of the Commission to invoke the jurisdiction
to award reparation, or to toll the statute of limitations
of two years as provided in the Act. Even if the original
petition of April 16, 1912, was sufficient to invoke the
jurisdiction to award reparation, in the first instance, yet
since it was denied by the Commission in its order of
June 1, 1914, and since no application for rehearing was
filed until July 22, 1915, the Commission had lost whatever jurisdiction it originally acquired before such application was filed. Although the supplemental petition
of July 22, 1915 Was filed on the date last mentioned,
nevertheless, upon the filing of the same no action was
taken to stay or reverse the original finding and decision
and order denying reparation. Not until four years
thereafter did the Commission undertake to reconsider
its first decision denying reparation, and not until six
years thereafter did it undertake to make the award of
reparation upon which this suit is based. The order of
the Commission is void to the extent. that it included

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

reparation on shipments that were transported during
the period from April 16, 1912, to July 22, 1913.
Mr. Challen B. Ellis, with whom Messrs. 0. E. Harrison, Woodson P. Houghton, Wade H. Ellis and Hugh
Morrow Were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit, under § 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384, was brought
against the Louisville & Nashville Railroad in the federal
district court for northern Alabama. By it the SlossSheffield Company sought to recover $63,982.80 with in'terest, being the amount of a reparation order entered
by the Interstate Commerce Commission for excessive
freight charges exacted in violation of § 1 of the Act.
60 I. C. C. 595; 62 I. C. C. 646., The charges here in
question were paid between April 17, 1910 and September
15, 1915, on shipments of pig iron from the company's
furnaces in Alabama, over lines of the Louisville & Nashville as initial carrier, to purchasers at Ohio River crossings and points beyond in central freight association territory.1 The reparation directed was an incident of proceedings commenced April 16, 1912, to secure a reduction
of the tariff rates. On 'June 1, 1914, an order was entered
reducing rates for the future 35 cents a ton. Later, a finding was made that to this extent the existing tariff rates
had exceeded what was reasonable throughout the whole
perrod, commencing two years prior to the filing of the
original complaint before the Commission. "The order
sued on, which was entered July 12, 1921, accompanied
was awarded also to other furnace'companies, similarly situated. They joined as plaintiffs in this suit pursuant to
§ 16 of the Act; but, by reason of stipulations between the parties,
these claims do not require consideration here. The stipulations
cover also like claims against other carriers,
1 Reparation

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

223

Opinion of the Court.

what is known as the Seventh Supplemental Rort. See
30 I. C. C. 597; 35 1. C. C. 460; 40 1. C. C. 738; 46 . C. C.
558; 511. C. C. 635; 52 I. C. C. 576.
The District Court, which heard the case withdut a
jry, entered judgment in accordance with the Commission's order, except that it disallowed 4amages for the
period between April 16, 1912 and July'22, 1913. Writs
of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals were sued out
by both the plaintiff and the defendant. That court entered judgment for $103,367.47, being the full amount
awarded -by the Commission with interest; and thus
affirmed as modified the judgment of the District Court.
295 Fed. 53. The carrier then sued out a writ of error
from this Court. It also filed a petition for a writ of certiorari, consideration of which was postponed to the
hearing on the writ of error. Compare Southern Pacific
Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 535.
As the case is properly here on writ of error, the petition
for certiorari is denied. Seventy-seven errors are formally
assigned. Only seven distinct contentions require separate
consideration. Some of these relate to matters of procedure, others to substantive rights. Some assert that
complete defenses to the suit were erroneously overruled,
others that the amount of the recovery should have been
reduced. Those which deal with matters of procedure
will be considered first.
First.It is claimed that the order of reparation dated July
12, 1921, on which the suit rests, is void, because entered
without notice to the Louisville & Nashville or opportuity to be heard thereon in violation both of the rules of
the Commission and of the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. The essential facts are these: The,
order sued on differed from an earlier one entered March
8, 1921, accompanying the so-called Sixth Supplemental
Report, only in this. It reduced the amount payable from

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

$68,728.80 to $63,982.80. It deferred -the final date for
payment from June 1, 1921, as prescribed by the earlier
order, to September 1, 1921. And it declared in terms that
the order of "March 8, 1921, be, and the same is hereby,
vacated and set aside." These modifications were made
in response to a petition filed by the Sloss-Sheffield Company on June 30, 1921, which recited, among other things,
that certain items of excess charges had been inadvertently included in earlier computations and prayed that
-the order theretofore entered be modified by making the
reduction stated. The Louisville & Nashville had no
notice of this application, but it had had notice and opportunity to be heard, and was fully heard, on all proceedings
leading up to the entry of the Sixth Supplemental Report
and accompanying order. Neither of the two reports, and
neither of the accompanying orders, recited the items
of excess charges of which the sums' named therein were
the aggregates. The District Court found that, by the
order of July 12, 1921, the Commission merely corrected
its Sixth Supplemental Report and award through striking out and deducting a certain part of the amount theretofore awarded; that the substituted order did not award
the Sloss-Sheffield Company reparation on any shipment
that was not included and allowed for in its order of
March 8, 1921; that the award of July 12, 1921, was based
entirely upon evidence furnished the Commission prior to
entering the March 8 order; and that the company did
not, in connection with its petition of June 30, 1921, submit to the Commission any new or additional evidence.
The Louisville & Nashville did not, after learning of the
entry of the substitute order, take any proceedings before
the Commission to have it set aside or corrected; nor was
other objection made thereto until' it raised the -point in
this suit.
The Louisville & Nashville concedes that this claim of
invalidity is unfounded if the order of July 12, 1921 did

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

225

Opinion of the Court.

nothing except reduce the'amount required to be paid.
The contention is that the Commission did more than
reduce the amount payable; that the order not only eliminated certain items of excess charges inadvertently included, but added certain items inadvertently omitted;
that this fact is established by recitals in the petition of
June 30, 1921, by a passage in the Seventh Supplemental
Report, and by evidence introduced by the carrier in the
District Court; that the evidence to the contrary introduced by the shipper and on which that. court relied was
incompetent, was duly objected to, and should have been
excluded; and that the finding made thereon is in direct
conflict with matter of record in the Commissio.n.
The Commission, like a court, may, upon its own
motion or upon request, correct any order still under its
control without notice to a party who cannot possibly
suffer by the modification made. Compare Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. United States, 288 Fed. 88. This power of
the Commission is, in adversary proceedings, narrowly
circumscribed; and its exercise is not to be encouraged.
Whether in this instance these narrow limits were transcended by the Commission, we have no occasion to enquire. The original order was sufficient to sustain the
findings and the judgments of the District Court as modified and affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. A'
copy of it was annexed to the petition in the District
Court, and was introduced in evidence there. If lack of
notice to the Louisville & Nashville rendered the later
order void, the original order remained in full force.
Compare Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Hormel & Co.,
240 Fed. 381, 383-384. The petition of the Sloss-Sheffield
Company of June 30 for a modification may be treated
as a remittitur by that company of a part of the amount
originally awarded, Pacific Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v.
O'Connor, 128 U. S. 394; the order of July 12 operates
as the entry of the remittitur; and appropriate amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ments in the pleadings may be deemed to have been made
here. The insistence of the Louisville & Nashville that
the order of July 12 should be deemed valid and of full
force and effect in so far as it sets aside, vacates and
annuls the prior order of March 8, but void in so far as
it directs a payment to be made, is without support in
reason or authority. Thus, the alleged errors in ruling on
the admissibility of evidence do not appear to have affected the substantial rights of the parties. Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40 Stat. 1181.
Second. It is claimed that the order of reparation sued
on is void to the extent that it includes damages on
account of shipments made between April 17, 1910 and
April 16, 1912, because the cause of action for this period
was,/barred by the special two-year statute of limitations
contained in § 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act. In
the original petition filed April 16,. 1912, reparation for
this period was specifically prayed for in these words:
"That the rates and charges herein complained of be
found and declared to have been unjust, unreasonable and
discriminatory for a period of at least two years preceding
the filing of this complaint; and that the complainants . . . may have reparation to the extent of the
difference between the rates and charges actftally paid
by them severally and the rates and charges that may
herein be found and declared the just and reasonable
maximum rates to be charged in the future."
This claim rests primarily upon the assertion that the
prayer is so general as to be, under §§ 13 and 16 of the
Act and the rules of the Commission, insufficient to invoke
its jurisdiction to award reparation.2 The argument is
2

The proceedings had were these.

After the Commission ordered

that, for the future, the rates complained of be reduced because
unreasonable, it found that throughout the period beginning two years
prior to the filing of the complaint the existing rates had also been
unreasonable and excessive to the extent of 35 cents a ton, 52 I. C. C.-

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

227

Opinion of the Court.

that a petition before the Commission for reparation must
give not only the names of the parties complainant and
of the carrier against which the claim is asserted, but also
a detailed description of the specific claims arising out of
the several shipments involved; that this detail is indispensable, because under § 13 the carrier has, after the
presentation .of the claim to the Commission, a locus
penitenrtiae in which to determine whether he will satisfy
the claim or contest it; and that a later specification of
the claim is of no avail, because the filing of such a definite
description of the claim with the Commission within the
two years is a jurisdictional requirement. It is true that
the two-year requirement is jurisdictional. United States
ex rel. Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 246 U. S. 638. But no statute or rul.
imposes upon the Commission procedure so exacting as !.
make fatal mere failure to present within the period o
limitation the detail of a statement which under the procedure prevailing in courts of law may ordinarily be supplied by amendment or a bill of particulars. As was
clearly shown by Judge Knapp in Arcadia Mills v. Carolina, Clinchfield & Ohio Ry. Co., 293 Fed. 639, the contention of the Louisville & Nashville would involve the
adoption of procedure contrary to the long establishedpractice of the Commission and would defeat the convenient and effective administration of the Act.'
576; held that the Sloss-Sheffield Company was entitled to reparation
on account of shipments made during that period; directed that the
parties prepare statements showing the details of shipments in accordance with Rule V of its Rules of Practice; ordered, upon the filing of
the Sixth Supplemental Report, 60 I. C. C. 595, the payment therein
specified; and ultimately substituted the order of July 12, 1921 for
that of March 8. 62 I. C. C. 646.
3See Mountain Ice Co. v. Delaware,L. & W. R. R. Co., 211. C. C.
45; Michigan Hardwood Mfrs. Assn. v. Transcontinental Freight
Bureau, 27 I. C. C. 32, 34, 36; Marian Coal Co. v. Delaware, L. & W.
R. R. Co., 27 I. C. C. 441, 442; Commercial Club of Omaha v: Ander-

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The Louisville & Nashville also contends th.t the order,
in so far as it awards reparation for the two-year period,
is void upon another ground. The main contention is
that, if the Commission acquired jurisdiction, it was later
lost, because the order of June 1, 1914 denied reparation,
and not having been suspended, became irrevocable at
the expiration of one year thereafter, although the main
proceeding was then being actively prosecuted and a petition for rehearing of the application for reparation was
later filed.' The earliest order fixing the amount of the
reparation was that entered March 8, 1921. The argument is that, although the rules of the Commission then
in force fixed no time for filing petitions for rehearing, a
one-year limit must be implied as to the rehearing of
orders denying reparation, because § 16 provides that suit
on orders granting reparation can be brought only if commenced within one year after entry. of 'the order. This
son & S. R. Ry. Co., 41 I. C. C. 480, 482; Buffalo Union FurnaCe Co.
v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 44 I. C. C. 267, 269; National Petroleum Assn. v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co., 58 I. C. C. 415, 418; Coakley
v. Director General, 59 I. C. C. 141, 144; National Preservers, etc.
Assn. v. Southern Ry. Co., 74 I. C. C. 179, 183.
4 The original order of June 1, 1914, which reduced rates for the
future, did not grant any reparation. The Commission did not then
decide whether the rates had been unreasonable at any time prior
to the entry of the order, and the report stated merely: "Reparation
is prayed for, but under the circumstances of this case, we do not
believe that it may fairly be awarded." The Sloss-Sheffield Company
petitioned for a rehearing in respect to reparatiori for the period
prior to the filing of the original complaint; but it did not do so
until July 22, 1915. The application so made was not acted upon
until December 9, 1918. The Commissionthen decided that the
Sloss-Sheffield Company was entitled to a finding as to the reasonableness of the rates during the two years immediately preceding the
filing of the original complaint and authorized the parties to introduce
additional evidence on this issue. 51 I. C. C. 635. On April 7, 1919,
the Commission decided that the rates had been unreasonable during
the two-year period; that reparation should be made, 52 I. C. C.
576; but that, upon the then record, it was unable to fi~x the amount.

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

229

Opinion of the Court.

argument, which seeks to reverse a settled practice of the
Commission as to the time within which petitions for rehearing could then be filed, is not persuasive. The further
contention that the delay of the Commission in disposing of the application for rehearing deprived it of jurisdiction is obviously unfounded.
Third. It is claimed that the order sued on is void to
the extent that it includes damages on account of shipments made between April 16, 1912 and 'July 22, 1913.
The contention is that the prayers of the original complaint, filed April 16, 1912, asked for reparation only on
account of hipments made within two years theretofore;
that a prayer for reparation on account of shipments to
be made thereafter was first introduced by the supplemental petition filed July 22, 1915; and that, therefore, the
special two-year statute of limifations barred recovery on
account of shipments made during this fifteen months'
period., We think the Court of Appeals was right in refusing to limit the prayer in the ofiginal petition. The
language used does not require a construction which would
so narrow its scope. A reading of the prayer as seeking
damages for losses suffered in the past through the exaction of existing rates, but not for losses which krill result
while the proceeding to reduce them is pending, would
deny to-the words used their natural meaning and impute
to the complainant a strange eccentricity of desire. The
action of the Commission was in harmony with its own
long settled practice and with the practice of courts in
analogous cases. 5
5

Buffalo Union Furnace Co. v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 44
I. C. C. 267, 2q9; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co, 56
I. C. C. 699, 706-707; G. B. Markle Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 57
I. C. C. 375, 376; National Petroleum Assn. v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry.
Co., 58 I. C. C. 415, 417-418. See also Freight Bureau v. New York,
N. H & H. R. R. Co., 63 I. C. C. 327, 334; Indian Packing Corp. V.
Director General, 64 I. C. C. 205, 210; American Fork & Hoe Co. v.
St. Louis & S. F. R. R. Co., 69 I. C. C. 173; Globe Elevatbr Co. v.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Fourth. It is claimed that the order of reparation sued
on is void to the extent that it includes damages on account of shipments made between April 17, 1910 and July
22, 1913, over lines of the Louisville & Nashville, the
initial carrier, to points on the lines of certain connecting
carriers operating in central freight association territory.
The contention is that the cause of action against the
Louisville & Nashville was barred as to such shipments
by the special two-year statute of limitations, because
these connecting carriers were not made parties to the
proceeding before the Commission until the scope of the
enquiry was widened by its order of November 3, 1'914.
This coiiU1tion rests primarily upon the assertion that
the original complaint was not broad enough to justify
any relief as to rates over connecting lines and that the
claim for reparation arising out of shipment over these
was not made until the filing of the supplemental complaint on July 22, 1915. We are of the opinion that, in
this respect also, the prayer for reparation in the original
complaint (which includes a prayer for general relief)
should not be so narrowly construed. The delay in joining these connecting carriers did preclude an award of
reparation as against them for the period without the
statutory limit; and this was recognized by the Commission in the order entered. But the delay in making these
connecting carriers parties to the proceeding before the
Commission did not afford a defense to the Louisville &
Nashville; because, for reasons about to 1 e stated in disDirector General, 74 1. C. C. 591; Bradford Rig & Reel Co. v.
Director General, 80 I. C. C. 335, 338; Lissberger & Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 81 I. C. C. 645, 648; Boren-Stewart Co. v. Baltimore & 0. R. R. Co., 83 I. C. C. 215, 216-217; Beaumont Chamber
of Commerce v. Director General, 85 I. C. C. 139, 145; Utah Gilsonite
Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 85 I. C. C. 557, 570; Cohen v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 88 I. C. C. 143, 146.
Compare Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. American Hay Co., 219 Fed.
539; Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. Markle Co., 279 Fed. 261.

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD4CO.
217

231

Opinion of the Court.

cussing another objection, the liability for exacting unlawful charges is joint and several. Compare Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 118 Fed. 613.
Fifth. It is claimed that the order of reparation is void
to the extent that it includes damages payable by the
Louisville & Nashville in excess of 23 cents a ton on shipments transported, under joint through rates, over lines
of connecting carriers to points beyond the Ohio River
crossings. The contention is that the liability of the
connecting carriers is not joint and several; that each is
liable individually only for the part which it received of
the excess unlawfully exacted; and that the Louisville &
Nashville must be deemed to have received only 23 cents
of the excess, because the Commission, when requested by
the carriers to decide under § 15 in what proportions the
future reduction of 35 cents in the joint through rates
already ordered should be borne, decided that the Louisville & Nashville should bear a shrinkage of 23 cents in
the existing division and the lines north of the River a
shrinkage of the remaining 12 cents. The argument is
that the joint through rate, although in fact established
by the voluntary act of the carriers, should be deemed to
have been compelled by law, since § 1(4) made it the
duty of carriers to establish through routes and § 15(3)
empowered the Commission to enforce that duty; that the
joint through rates should be treated as if they were merely
a combination of the full individual rates of the several
carriers, because the rates in question were in fact constructed by combining as factors the existing ptliblished
proportional rates of the several carriers; that carriers
necessarily exercise a fallible judgment as to reasonableness when initiating and in agreeing upon a joint rate;
that a later decision by the Commission that the joint rate
is excessive does not involve a finding that the carriers
acted either arbitrarily or from bad motives in establish-

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ing it; that the excess charge for which a carrier should be
made liable is only that which results from its own error
in judgment; that the court should assume that no carrier
had any control over any factor in the joint rate except
the proportion attributable to its own line; and that consequently the Louisville & Nashville should be held to
have contributed to the injury of this shipper only to the
extent of 23 cents a ton.' The argument is unsound.
The cause of action sued on is of statutory origin. It
rests primarily upon § 8 which declares that if "any common carrier . . . shall do, cause to be done, or permit to
be done any act, matter or thing in this act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful . . such common carrier shall
be liable . . . for the full amount of damages sustained in
consequence of any such violation of the provisions of
this act. . . ." The Commission held early, nd has consistently held since, that carriers who by means of a joint
through rate make excessive charges are liable jointly and
severally for all the damage sustained." It is true that participation in joint rates does not make connecting carriers partners and that each does not become liable like a
partner for every tort of any of the others engaged in the
common enterprise. Central R. R. Co. v. United States,
6 For

the characteristics of through routes, of joint rates, of proportional rates, of combinations of locals, and of divisions of joint
rates, see Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. C. H. Albers Commission
Co., 223 U. S. 573, 586-8; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 245 U. S. 136; Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 257 IT. S.
247, 255; Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co. v. Settle, 260
U. S. 166; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; United States
v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515; United States v. Abilene
& Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274; United States v. American Ry.
Express Co., 265 U. S. 425.
7
Independent-Refiners' Assn. v. Western N. Y. & P. R. R. Co., 6
I. C. C. 376, 383-385; Morti v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 13
I. C. C. 513, 515; Nicola, Stone & Myers Co. v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 199, 209; Black Horse Tobacco Co. v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 17 I. C. C. 588, 590, 593; Sondheimer Co. v. Illinois

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

233

Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S. 247, 259. Each connecting carrier is liable only
for its own act. But the establishment of a joint rate by
the concurrence of connecting carriers is necessarily the
act of each, because the establishment of the rate is done
by their joint agreement. The case at bar is not like Insurance Co. v. Railroad Co., 104 U. S. 146, on which the
Louisville & Nashville relies.
The fact that the joint rate had been constructed out
of existing proportional rates is not of legal significance.
The rates complained of were not merely the aggregate of
individual local or prop6rtional rates customarily charged
by the respective lines for the transportation included in
the through routes. The rates in question were strictly
joint through rates. Each through rate was complained of
as a unit. Compare Parsons v. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 447, 455-6. A single charge was made
for the transportation from point of origin to point of
destination.
Nor does the fact that the connecting carriers may have
been induced to enter into these agreements for joint
through rates because the Interstate Commerce Act had
declared this to be the general duty of all carriers, prevent
the agreement actually entered into from being the joint
Central R. R. Co.,. 20 I. C. C. 606, 610; Webster Grocer Company v.

Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 21 I. C. C. 20; InternationalAgricultural Corp. v. Danville & Nashville R. R. Co., 29 I. C. C. 391;
Best Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 33 I. C. C. 1, 3; Orgill Bros. Co.
v. Nashville, Chattanooga& St. Louis Ry. Co., 39 I. C. C. 513, 514;
Heinz v. Pere Marquette R. R. Co., 39 I. C. C. 022, 624; Riverside
Mills v. A. & S. Steamboat Co., 40 I. C. C. 501, 502; Squire & Co. v.
A. S. R. Co., 44 1. C. C. 509; Swift & Co. v. Missouri Pac. Ry. Co., 49
I. C. C. 336, 337; International Nickel Co. v. Director General, 66
I. C. C. 627, 628; United States Graphite Co. v. Director General,
881. C. C. 157, 160. This course of action was not affected by the decision in Western New York & PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Penn Refining
Co., 137 Fed. 343, 357-8; affirmed in 208 U. S. 208. Compare Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.
197, 205.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

act of these carriers. Every local or individual rate is
likewise established pursuant to a duty. Whether a rate
be individual or joint the Commission may. enforce performance if the duty to establish it is neglected. The
liability in the case at bar arises out of the wrongful exaction from the shipper, not out of the unlawful receipt or
unjust enrichment by the carrier. Every carrier who participates in the infliction of this wrong is liable in solido
like every other joint tort feasor. The tariff rate, although
unlawful because excessive, was as between shipper and
carrier the only legal rate. Neither would have been at
liberty to avail itself of more favorable rates for any part
of the through carriage. Compare Baltimore & Ohio
Southwestern R. R. Co. v. Seattle, 260 U. S. 166, 171.
The Louisville & Nashville, the initial carrier, exacted
the excessive joint rates on behalf of itself and of all of
the connecting carriers who with it were parties to the
joint through rates.
The division of the joint'rate among the participating
carriers is a matter which in no way concerns the shipper.
The shipper's only interest is that the joint rate be reasonable as a whole. It may be unreasonable although
each of the factors of which it is constructed was reasonable. It may be reasonable although some of the factors,
or of the divisions of the participants, were unreasonable,
Moreover, there is no finding that the excess received by
the Louisville & Nashville was only 23 cents a ton. The
Commission did not fix or determine the rights of the
several carriers as against each other in respect to the
reparation awarded; nor had it, so far as appears, fixed the
divisions of the joint rate theretofore existing. Awarding reparation for excessive charges in the past and regulating rates for the future involve the determination of
matters essentially different. Baer Bros. Mercantile Co.
v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 233 U. S. 479.
Sixth. It is claimed that the Sloss-Sheffield Company
cannot recover, because it was not damaged by the ex-

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

235

Opinion of the Court.

cessive freight charges. The Commission and the District Court found that the Sloss-Sheffield Company bore
the transportation charges and was damaged to the extent.
of the difference between the charges paid and those that
would have accrued at the rates found reasonable. Both
tribunals found further that all the iron was sold f. o. b.
destination; that it was shipped to purchasers named as
consignees on straight bills of lading; that it was invoiced,
and charged on the seller's books at the full delivered
price; that, pursuant to arrangement between seller and
purchaser, the consignee physically paid the freight upon
acceptance of the delivery; and that he was credited with
this at the rate specified in the sales contract as a part
payment of the purchase price, and remitted only the balance of the purchase price.
The objection urged is not that the company failed to
make specific proof of pecuniary loss--the failure held in
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Mining
Company, 230 U. S. 184, 206, to be fatal in a suit
under § 2 for unjust discrimination, and in Davis v. Portland Seed Co., 264 U. S. 403, to be fatal in a suit under
§ 4 for violation of the long-and-short-haul clause. The
carrier concedQs, as it must under Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-TaenzerLumber Co., 245 U. S.531, that a recovery for excessive freight charges can be had under § 1
without specific proof of pecuniary loss, and that the measure of damages is the amount of the excess exacted. It
was likewise settled by SouthernPacificv. Darnell-Taenzer
Lumber Co. (see 190 Fed. 659; 221 Fed. 890), that where
goods are sold f. o. b. destination, it is ordinarily the seller
who bears the freight, who suffers from the excessive
8
charge, and who consequently is entitled to sue. The
Such had been the uniform decision of the Commission. Hayden
Ship Island R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C.
& Westcott Lumber Co. v. Gulf
537, 538; Mountain Ice Co. v,/Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R. Co., 21 I. C. C. 45, 51; Lamb, McGregor & Co. v. Chicago &
Northwesten R. R. Co., 22 I. C. C. 346; Central Commercial Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

contention is that facts specifically found differentiate
the case at bar and overcome the prima facie effect of the
Commission's finding as to damages; that because of these
specific facts it was not the Sloss-Sheffield Company, but
the purchasers of the iron from it, who paid andbore these
freight charges; and that it was these purchasers alone
who were entitled to reparation.
The additional facts relied upon to support this, objection to recovery are these: All the shipments were made
under a standard form of contract which was applicable
to sales for future delivery in installments and which contained a provision substantially as follows:
"Price. Fourteen dollars and eighty five cents ($14.85)
per ton of 2240 lbs. delivered at Chicago, Illinois.
"This price is based on present tariff freight rate of
$4.35 p~r ton. In case the tariff rate declines, the buyer
is to have the benefit of such decline. In case the tariff
freight rate advances, the buyer is to pay the advance.
"Freight, cash; balance, cash 30 days from average date
of monthly deliveries (Invoice date). . . . The seller not
,will be liable for any overcharge in freight when correct
rate is expressed in bill of lading."
The provision in question is a common one in contracts
of sale. Its effect upon the consignor's right to recover
Atchison, Topeka & Santa PrRy. Co., 26 I. C. C. 373, 376; Michigan
Hardwood Mfrs. Assn. v. Freight Bureau, 27 I. C. C. 32, 38-40;
Ballou & Wright v. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co., 34
I. C. C. 12Q; Bascom-French Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 34 I. C. C. 388, 389; Louisiana Central Lumber Co. v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 35 I. C. C. 38, 39; Traffic
Bureau, Sioux City Commercial Club. v. A. & S. R. R. Co., 37
I. C. C. 353; Advance Bedding Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 38 I. C. C,'1 32; Charles Bolt Co. v. Baltimore .& Ohio
R. R. Co., 42 1. "C.C. 175, 176; Federal Oil & Supply Co. v. Director
General, 60 I. C. C. 185, 187; Iola Cement Mills Traffic Ass'n v.
Director General, 66 I. C. C. 495, 500; Central Wisconsin Supply Co.
v. Director General, 68 I. C. C. 409, 411; Wyoming Sugar Co. v.
bDirector General, 77 I. C. C. 470, 471-472; 88 I. C. C. 213,"216.

L. & N. R.R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

237

Opinion of the Court.

overcharges was carefully considered by the Commission
in 1911 in Baker Mfg. Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co., 21 I. C. C. 605. It was then held that the consignor must sue if goods were sold f. o. b. destination.
This case has been consistently followed by the Commission since;9 and it was cited in Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 534. In the
case at bar, both the consignor and the consignees claimed
reparation; and the Commission's decision denying relief
to the consignees seems to have been acquiesced in before
that tribunal by all 'parties.
The Louisville & Nashville argues now that a sale at
the delivered price of $14.85 is, by reason of this provision,
the legal equivalent of a sale at $10.50 plus freight; that
under a contract of sale at a fixed price plus freight the
purchaser would be entitled "in case the tariff rate declines" to the benefit of "the decline "; that a decision
that a published rate exacted was excessive is the legal
equivalent of a decline in rates; that under the provision
quoted the purchaser would be entitled, as against the
seller, to any damages payable by the carrier for having
established and collected the higher tariff rate thereafter
found to be unlawful because excessive; and that, since
the refund to be made by the carrier would ultimately
enure to the purchaser's benefit, no damage was suffered
by the seller by reason of the excessive freight charge."
The' construction urged ignores the commercial significance of selling at a delivered price. When a seller
9Commercial Club of Omaha v. Anderson & S. R. Ry. Co., 27
I. C. C. 302, 322; Rapier Sugar Feed Co.'v. Louisville & N. R. R. Co.,
47 I. C. C. 222, 223; Hubinger Bros. Co. v. Director General, 58
I C. C. 53, 57; Keokuk Electric Co. v. Director General, 68 I. C. C.
517, 520; Davenport Commercial Club v. DirectorGeneral, 73 I. C. C.
251, 258; Roxana Petroleum Corp. v. Director General, 74 . C. C.
605, 607. Compare Standard Oil Co. v. Director General, 89 I. C. C.
7, 9-10; Dolese Bros. Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 89 I. C. C.
110, 122.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

enters a competitive market with a standard article he
must meet offerings from other sources. On goods sold
f. o. b. destination, the published freight charge from the
point of origin becomes, in essence, a part of the seller's
cost of production. An excessive freight charge for delivery of the finished article affects him as directly as does a
like charge upon his raw materials. Moreover, the burden
of the published freight rate rested upon the consignor
under the bill of lading, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Central Iron & Coal Co., 265 U. S. 59, 67, as well as
under the contract of sale. The purchaser who paid the
freight did so solely as agent for the seller. The carrier
did not know of the provision in the sales contracts.
With the rights or equities as between seller and purchaser
it had and has no concern, nor need we concern ourselves
with them.
Seventh. It is claimed that the order of reparation is
void to the extent that it included as damages interest
amounting to $25,979.49 accrued prior to the entry of the.
final order on July 12, 1921; and that the judgment is
erroneous for the further reason that it included interest
upon interest to the extent of $1,363.93, asit allowed
interest generally from the date of the award. The'main
contention is that no interest is allowable prior to the
date of the final award because until th~ii there was no
obligation to pay the claim in suit. The argument is that
until entry of the award, it was uncertain whether any
amount was payable by way of reparation, since the Commission might reduce rates for the future without awarding any damages for the past; that, moreover, the claim'
was unliquidated; that the claim was, in its nature, one
which the parties could never voluntarily have liquidated,
since a shipper must, in any event, pay freight rates in
accordance with the tariff as published and the carrier
must retain the amount received; that failure by the
carriers to observe this rule would have been a criminal

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

239

Opinion of the Court.

violation of the Elkins Act, 32 Stat. 847; 34 Stat. 584;
that repayment by the carrier could, therefore, not have
been made legally until after the final award, Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International Coal Mining Co.,. 230
U. S. 184, 197; that, for this reason, there could be no
culpable delay in failing to repay the excess earlier; and
that consequently there was lacking the only legal basis
for allowing ,interest.
It has been the uniform practice of the Commission to
recognize as an element of the damages loss of interest on
charges unlawfully exacted; and, in ordering reparation,
it has usually included as a part of the damages such
interest from the date of the payment."0 In Meeker &
Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 420, in
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley Rj. R. Ca., 236 U. S. 434, 437,
and in Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238 U. S. 473,
477-8, in each of which cases a judgment enforcing such
an order was affirmed by this Court, the opinions show
that interest had been allowed in accordance with this
practice. 1 The practice of the Commission conforms to
10 In International,etc. Corp. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,

29 I. C. C. 391, 395, it is stated: "The Commission has uniformly
allowed interest on claims for reparation." See E. I. Du Pont, etc.
Co. v. Director General, 55 I. C. C. 246, 247; National Petroleum
Ass'n. v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 58 I. C. C. 415; Shreveport Creosoting Co. v. Louisiana & Pacific Ry. Co., 92 I. C. C. 519.
The Commission has said that interest will not be allowed where the
record does not show the date of the payment. Morris & Co. v.
Director General, 74 I. C. C. 242, 244.
11 In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Ohio Valley Tie Co., 242
U. S. 288, 291, the damages recoverable under §§ 8, 9 and 16 of the
Act were said to include loss due to "the keeping of the plaintiff
out of its money." In Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Minds, 250 U. S.
368, 370-1, the Court declared that "unless interest is to be allowed
there seems to be no means of making the claimants whole for the
wrongs sustained by violations of the statute." Compare Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S.
134, 147.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Separate Opinion of MOREYNoLs, J.

269 U. S.

the general rules governing the allowance of interest.
The wrong for which the statute renders the carrier liable
is the exacting of payment pursuant to an unjawful rate,
not the withholding of the excess unlawfully exacted.
The mere fact that the validity of the claim is disputed
and that the amouit recoverable is uncertain obviously
does not bar the recovery of interest. The Commission
properly determined not only whether interest shoula be
included, but also the date from which it shall be included.
Compare Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis, S. W. Ry. Co., 249
U. S. 134, 147; Eddy v. LaFayette, 163 U. S. 456, 467;
The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 519. On the findings made
we. cannot say that the conclusion of the Commission that
interest should be paid from the date of the illegal exaction
was
unwarranted.
The
further
contention is that by allowing interest from
September 12, 1921; the effective date of the Commission's order, on the whole amount then payable, compound interest to the extent of $1,363.93 was allowed. It
is true that the judgment entered involves such payment;
but it does not follow that this was error. Payment of.
some compound interest often results when a judgment
of affirmance is entered by an appellate court. It results,
likewise, whenever a trial court enters judgment in an
a;ction upon a judgment or upon an award. An order
of reparation may be likened to an award in this respect,
Affirmed ot writ of error.
Writ of certiorari denied.

The separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

When this matter was before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, July, 1916, Commissioner McChord, member since 1910, wrote a well-considered dissenting opinion
pointing out that defendant in'error had suffered no proximate damage and therefore ought not to recover. 40
I. C. C. 738. I think he was right.

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

Separate Opinion Of

241

MCREYNOLDS, J.

Apparently for some years the Commission has generally accepted the view that the consignee who pays
freight charges under an f. o. b. destination contract of
sale "acts as agent for the consignor and the latter may
recover when these are found to be excessive. Of course,
the decisions deserve attention, but if they support the
reparation order here questioned (where the consignee
had clear right to demand reasonable rates) they should
be disapproved, not followed. Reiteration did not cure
the fundamental error. The facts are not in dispute; the
function of this Court is to declare the law. Nothing
heretofore said by us precludes the defense of no damage.
At Birmingham, Ala., defendant in error accepted a
written proposition made by the Chicago Foundry &
Machine Company to purehase fifty tons of pig iron at,
"fourteen dollars and eighty-five cents per ton of 2240
lbs., delivered at Chicago, Illinois," which recited:
"This price is based on present tariff freight rate of
$4.35 per ton. In case the tariff rate declines, the buyer
is to have the benefit of such decline. In case the tariff
freight rate advances, the buyer is to pay the advance.
Freight, cash; balance, cash 30 days from average date of
monthly deliveries. . . . The seller will not be liable
for any overcharge in freight when correct rate is expressed
in bill of lading."
From time to time the iron was consigned to the purchaser at Chicago under straight bills of lading issued by
plaintiff in error; the weight and rate were stated on each
bill. The carrier had no knowledge of the sale agreement; upon receipt of the goods the consignee paid the
freight charges. The consignor rendered uniform bills
which contained charge items for weights shipped at
$14.85 per ton less freight at $4.35 per ton, always with a
balance equivalent to $10.50 per ton. Entries on the consignee's books are not disclosed. In substance, as shown
by the writing and practice, the consignor agreed to re-

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Separate Opinion of McREYNOLDS, J.

269 U. S.

ceive from the consignee at the end of thirty days $10.50
per ton and the latter agreed to pay the carrier's lawful
charges, whatever they might be. In no event could the
consignor receive more than ther $10.50; it sold for future
delivery at a definite price payable thirty days thereafter.
As intended, the consignee accepted the goods, actually
paid the charges and was thus in relation with the carrier. It was peculiarly interested in the amount so paid
and certainly had the right to demand reasonable rates.
The consignor had no immediate interest therein; whether
they were more or less could not affect its receipts or
profits under the contract.
The provision that, "The seller will not'be liable for
any overcharge in freight when correct rate is expressed
in bill of lading," indicates that the parties did not regard
the consignee as mere agent of the seller when paying
transportation charges. By disavowing its interest in an
overcharge the seller at least recognized the consignee's
right to seek redress from the carrier.
Under settled doctrine the right to reparation for violations of the Interstate Commerce Act depends upon
proximate damage. This was distinctly affirmed in Pennsylvania R. R. v. InternationalCoal Co., 230 U. S. 184;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S.
531; Davis v. Portland Seed Co., 264 U. S. 403. In the
case last cited respondent sought, without success, "to
secure something for itself without proof of pecuniary
loss consequent upon the unlawful act." Here, no better
result should follow like effort. In"
the same case we said:
"Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S.
531, presents no conflict with PennsylvaniaR. R. v. International Coal Co. There the shipper paid a published
rate which the Commission afterwards found to be unreasonable. This court held he could recover, as the proximate damage of the unlawful demavd, the excess above
the rate which the Commission had declared to be reasonable. The opinion went no further."

L. & N. R. R. v. SLOSS-SHEFFIELD CO.
217

243

Separate Opinion of McREYNOLDS, J.

The following from Southern Pacific Co. v. DarnellTaenzer Co. points out plainly enough that there can be,
no recovery without proximate damage:" The only question before us is that at which we have hinted: whether
the fact that the plaintiffs were able to pass on the damage that they sustained in the first instance by paying
the unreasonable charge, and to collect that amount from
the purchasers, prevents their recovering the overpayment from the carriers. The answer is not difficult. The
general tendency of the law, in regard to damages at least,
is not to go beyond the first step. As it does not attribute
remote consequences to a defendant so it holds him liable
if proximately the plaintiff has suffered a loss. The plaintiffs suffered losses to the amount of the verdict when
they paid. Their claim accrued at once in the theory of
the law and it does not inquire into later events . . . If
it be said that the whole transaction is one from a business point of view, it is enough to reply that the unity in
this case is not sufficient to entitle the purchaser to recover, any more than the ultimate consumer who in turn
paid an increased price. He has no privity with the carThe carrier ought not to be allowed to retain
rier ....
his illegal profit, and the only one who can take it from
him is the one that alone was in relation with him, and
from whom the carrier took the sum. . . . Behind the
technical mode of statement is the consideration well emphasized by the Interstate Commerce C6mmission, of the
endlessness and futility of the effort to follow every transaction to its ultimate result. 13 I. C. C. 680. Probably in
the end the public pays the damages in most cases of compensated torts."
It affirmatively appears that defendant in error suffered
no appreciable damage. The consignee upon its own account, as agreed and obligated by law, paid freight charges
upon receipt of the goods. These were too high; it was
unlawfully required to pay too much and suffered proximate loss.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

It is vain to speculate whether the seller might have
obtained better prices if the freight rate had been lower.
It might not have gotten the business at all. Certainly
it suffered no more than any competitor who failed to sell
because of the exorbitant rate but sustained no proximate
loss and therefore had no right to reparation. Every
member of the public may be said to be damnified by excessive freight rates; but unless proximate damage exists
there can be no recovery from the carrier. Here the consignee paid charges unlawfully demanded of it and is
actually out of pocket more than it should be. The consignor paid nothing, lost nothing; but under the ruling
below it alone may seek reparation-reparation for money
unlawfully exacted of another.
MR. JUSTICE STONE dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion of the majority of the Court
on the ground that the consignees who paid the freight
to procure goods, the title to which was in them when
shipped, were within the protection of the statute prohibiting unreasonable freight rates, and upon payment of
the illegally exacted freight from their own funds they
were the persons suffering proximate damage and were
therefore entitled to recover the excess freight within the
meaning of the -statute and the reasoning of the opinion
in Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245
U. S.531.

NEW YORK EX REL. WOODHAVEN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.
No. 33.

Argued October 12, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.

1. A case involving the validity of an order requiring a gas company
to extend its mains did not become moot through the act of the

