GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
Syllabus.

GULF REFINING

NORVELL,
McMULLEN

COMPANY OF LOUISIANA,
V. UNITED STATES.

ET AL.

ET AL.

V. UNITED

STATES.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 59, 60. Argued October 19, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

1. When a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reverses the decree
of the District Court and remands the case for further proceedings
not inconsistent with the former court's opinion, the opinion is, in
effect, a part of the mandate; and, if the opinion, in effect, directs
the District Court to enter a decree for a definite sum, permitting
nothing further in that court but the performance of this ministerial
duty, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final for purposes of appeal. P. 135.
2. In a suit to quiet title to land, regain possession, enjoin further
trespass, and for an accounting for oil extracted, a decree of the
District Court granting this relief to the plaintiff against the defendant and confirming an accounting made, was final for purposes
of appeal to this Court, although it reserved jurisdiction to execute
its provisions by compelling an additional accounting in respect of
oil extracted pendente lite. P. 136.
3. An appeal from a decree in equity in a federal court is not a new
suit in the appellate court, but a continuation of the cause; and
the cause remains pending until the appeal is disposed of. P. 137.
4. The rule (in Louisiana) which allows a trespasser whose trespass
is qualified by moral, though not by legal, good faith, to offset his
expenditures against the value of products extracted from the land,
when required to account in a suit brought by, the land owner
primarily to enforce the latter's title and right of possession, applies not only to the operations of the defendant preceding the
filing of the bill and entry of decree against him in the court of first
instance (Mason v. United States, 260 U. S. 545), but also to the
cqntinuance of those operations pending decision of his appeal
while his possession is continued through a supersedeas. Id.
5. The moral good faith attending the trespass is not affected by the
filing of the bill or the rendition of the first decree, but continues
until final adjudication upon appeal. Id,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

269 U. S.

6. In suits by the United States to enjoin continuing trespasses upon
withdrawn oil lands and for an incidental accounting for oil extracted,
the District Court entered decrees granting the main relief and
confirming accountings up to a date subsequent to the filing of the
bill, in which the defendants, as trespassers in moral good faith,
were allowed to offset expenses of extraction against value of oil
extracted. The decrees having been in these respects affirmed upon
appeal to this Court pending which the defendants continued their
possession and operations through supersedeas, the District Court,
pursuant to interlocutory directions contained in the original decrees, required further accountings for oil extracted since the first
accounting. Held, That the second accountings were cbntinuations
of the first; and that it was proper, and within the authority of the
District Court, to credit against the oil extracted since the first accounting not only the expenses during that subsequent period but
also the earlier expenses in so far as they exceeded the value of the
oil extracted during the period covered by the first accounting.
P. 138.
7. A party who pays in money to the clerk of the District Court to
satisfy a jolgment in favor of the United States, is required by
Rev. Stats. § 828 to pay the clerk a commission of 1016 on the
amount paid in, as part of the costs. P. 139.
8 The act placing the clerks of court on a salary basis left the taxability of clerks' charges where it was. The Government pays
the salary and steps into the shoes of the clerk in respect of the
right to fes and emoluments--where the Government is a party as
well as in other cases. Id.
298 Fed. 281, affirmed in part; reversed in part.

APPEALS from decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing in part and affirming in part decrees entered by
the District Court in two of the cases which were before
this Court in Mason v. United States, 260 U. S. 545. The
decrees related to final accountings for oil extracted from
withdrawn oil lands, and one of them involved also. a
question of costs.

Mr. S. L. Herold, with whom Messrs. H. L. Stone, Jr.,
and D. Edward Greer were on the brief, for appellants.

If evidence on the accounting had been heard originally
in 1923, instead of 1918, there could be now,- in vievof

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Argument for Appellants.

the ruling of this Court, no doubt that the United States
could not get a money judgment because of the conversion of the oil, when -its production was had at an expense far in excess of its value. This being an equity
case, elementary principles make it clear that the purely
adventitious circumstance that evidence happened to be
taken five years earlier on the preliminary accounting
could not change the plaintiff's right, nor affect the defendant's liability. If, as held by this Court, defendants
are liable " only for the value of the oil, after deducting
therefrom the cost of drilling, equipping and operating
the wells," then clearly the Government cannot evade the
legal consequences of the rule by securing two accountings: one at an early date, by which the large initial outlay of drilling should be absorbed, and another during
which nothing should be expended except the cost of operating the wells whose drilling and equipping have been
only partially recouped by the oil taken to the first accounting date. The drilling of the wells and the installation of all of the machinery required to equip them for
production is as much a necessary expense in the raising
of the last as of the first barrel of oil the wells should
bring to the surface. The rights of the plaintiff and of
defendants in this respect, moreover, are matters of substantive law, and can neither be diminished nor enlarged
because of such purely accidental and irrelevant circumstances as that upon which it is now sought to circumvent
the application of the doctrine announced by this Court.
There is no question here of legal bad faith. That is
conceded. It was-so adjudged by this Court. It continued throughout the possession. But nowhere does the
record show, at any stage, a morally bad or dishonest use
of the property. The decree of this Court, therefore, demands that defendants' possession, from beginning to
end, be viewed as of like character. Cooke Case, 135 La.
610, cited in 260 U. S., p. 556. The former opinion of

128 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

269 U. S.

this Court settles the law of the case, that the institution
of the suit by the Government did not affect. the substantive rights of the defendants to reimbursement for
expenses out of production.
The defendants had the right to appeal. Their appeal
was but a step in tlMe original case. It was not a new proceeding. Although the decree awarding the Government
possession,' injunction and damages was final and appealable, the paragraph ordering an accounting for oil
extracted after January 1, 1918, amounted to no more
than an exptess retention of jurisdiction for the purpose
of further and complete accounting. It was merely an
interlocutory order, was never appealable and, consequently, was never before this Court on the former appeal, nor binding hpon the District Court in its rendition
of the final decree now here on this appeal. Keystone
Iron Co. v. Maftin, 132 U. S. 91; CaliforniaNat. Bank v.
Stateler, 171 U. S. 447; Craighead v. Wilson, 18 How.
199; Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283; Lodge v. Twell, 135
U. S. 232; McGoukey v. T. & 0. Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 535;
Union Mut. Ins. Co. v. Kirchoff, 160 U. S. 374; Hollander
v. Fechheimer, 162 U. S. 326; Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff,
106 U. S. 3; Follansbee v. Ballard Co., 154 U. S. 651;
Guaranty Co. v. Mechanics Say. Bank, 173 U. S. 582.
The only reason why its interlocutory character did not
prevent the appeal from the main decree was that such
judgment ordered the delivery of possession of real property and decreed the payment of a definite sum of money.
The purely incidental character of the further accounting
ordered by the interlocutory decree was not allowed to
affect the appealability of the final decree disposing of
the title and possession of the land and condemning the
defendants to pay a specific sum of money, all of which
was immediately enforceable by execution. See review
of authorities in Keystone Iron Co. v. Martin, supra.

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Argument for the United States.

The decree being interlocutory in character was not binding upon the District Court in the rendition of final judgment upon the a~counting, Fourniquet v. Perkins, 16
How. 82; Latta v. Kilbourn, 150 U. S. 539; 16 Cyc. 503.
The Clerk's commission of one per cent should be disallowed, 15 Corpus Juris, 24; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 283 Fed. 943, dissent. op.; United States
v. Kurtz, 164 U. S. 49; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v.
Dart, 91 Fed. 452; Easternv. H. & T. C. Ry. Co., 44 Fed.
720. Since the commission in question does not relate to
services performed in the prosecution or defense of the
case; since plaintiff could have paid the amount to the
Treasurer of the United States, and since by statute the
Government pays the clerk a salary in lieu of all costs or
fees; since the rule itself claims only a " commission" of
one per cent. upon the amount handled by the clerk, and
since the statute does not specifically state that such commission is a part of the taxable costs, it is submitted that
the amount in question is not an item of taxable costs, but
is an item ordinarily deductible by the clerk from the funds
in his hands. In general, after deducting this commission the clerk covers it over into the Treasury as all other
collections; but here, where the Government is the successful party, it would be idle to deduct the commission
and then pay it back to the party to whom the fund was
payable. In such case there would be no deduction, and,
since the Government is not obligated for the one per cent.,
it cannot recover it.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Beck, Assistant Attorney General Wells and Mr. Horace H. Smith,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
The decrees appealed from are not final. Haseltine v.
Central Bank of Springfield, 183 U. S. 130; Bruce v.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the- United States.

269 U. S.

Tobin, 245 U. 8. 18; Harris v. United States, 257 U. S.
623. The jurisdiction of the District Court was at an
end as to operations prior to January 1, 1918. The decree
of August 12, 1919, fixed with definiteness the liability
of the defendants with respect to operations during the
accounting period covered by it; that is, up to January 1,
1918. Nothing further remained to be done by the court
on that score. It was a final determination of the rights
of the United States as to the matters then litigated and
submitted to the court. The District Court so considered
it, for no reservation was made in the decree nor by any
order. That the decree was final as to liability to the
Government to the date specified, and was so considered,
is evidenced by the fact that in Mason v. United States,
260 U. S. 545, a kindred case, this Court modified the decree of the District Court to the extent of reducing the
liability of the operating company by some eleven thousand.dollars. After the term has ended all final judgments
and decrees pass beyond the court's control, unless steps
be taken during that term to set aside, modify, or correct
them. Bronson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410; Wetmore v.
Karrick, 205 U. S. 141.
The action of the District Court in taking into consideration the loss sustained in the operations prior to January 1, 1918, in passing upon the liability for oil produced
after that date under a separate accounting, was in effect a
reopening of the matter covered and settled by its decree
of August 12, 1919, which was final and had been affirmed
by this Court. The court was without power to do this.
The subject matter of the decrees of 1919 in general was
the title to the land and the oil produced before January
1, 1918, while the subject matter of the accounting provided for in the decrees was to be the oil extracted afterwards. The Master did not recommend that his report be
suspended pending the accounting. It was not contemplated that the amounts stated in the decrees should

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Argument for the United States.

remain unpaid until after the subsequent accounting was
made, or that such amounts should be reduced because of
that accounting.
If the court had the power to reopen the account for
the purpose of allowing the defendants to claim credit
for prior losses, which had already been allowed, then
there is, as a necessary consequence, no restriction whatever upon the court's authority in the premises. If the
former accounting was to be reopened the Governmtent
could have taken the position that too much credit had
been allowed for expenses, or that the quantity or value
of the oil was greater than as found by the Master. The
defendants would rightfully have resisted such a claim if
made by plaintiff, and plaintiff has the equal right to oppose any attempt made by defendants to go behind and
beyond the decrees. If the decrees can be opened, or
vacated, to take out a deficit and carry it into future accounting, they can be opened to let in a deficit thereafter
sustained, and thereby reduce, or wipe out entirely, the
amounts which were payable absolutely and at all events
under the decrees. The decrees positively condemn the
defendants to pay certain specific amounts, and the language employed as to future accounting is equally positive
and emphatic. The defendants received full credit for
the cost of operation during the period for which the accounting was made in the Master's report. They were
content to have the account closed for that period upon
the basis of contemporaneous expense and value, with a
deficit in their favor. They did not object to the closing
of the Master's report without any reservation as to the
loss disclosed in the operations up to that time, or with
respect to future operations or future accounting.
But appellants assert that the decrees of August 12,
1919, were merely interlocutory upon the matter of accounting. If those decrees were interlocutory, how do appellants justify the former appeals, since appeals properly
lie only from final decrees?

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

269 U. S.

The accounting for the oil produced after January 1,
1918, and the liability of the defendant for it were entirely separate and distinct from the previous transactions.
In the decree the only thing reserved, so far as the United
States is concerned, was a future accounting for " future"
production. It is significant that no reference was made
to the accounting for the oil produced prior to January 1,
1918; the decree was not that such accounting be continued to cover the period after January 1, 1918. There
was to be an accounting for oil extracted since January
1, 1918-a new accounting for a particular period. What
was decreed was that the plaintiff should be paid for that
oil extracted during that time, "as ascertained by said
accounting," not by the former one, under which the
rights and liabilities for previous trespasses had been determined. What was reserved was plaintiff's rights to recover the oil produced since January 1, 1918. Under the
rule of damages fixed by this Court and followed in this
new accounting defendants were allowed the cost of production. But what the District Court did was to allow
not only the co;t of the production of the particular oil
produced after January 1, 1918, but also the cost of
production of oil for a totally different period-that previous to January 1, 1918.
Further, the decree appointed a receiver to take possession and to continue operations, and defendants were
directed to surrender possession to him. Instead of complying with that provision of the decree, the defendants
superseded it and continued in possession and operation.
Now, if a receiver had taken charge, will anyone assert
that when he made his accounting the defendants could
have been heard to demand that the proceeds of his operations be turned over to them to offset their losses on the
operations conducted by them prior to receivership? We
say that when defendants refused to surrender possession
to the receiver appointed by the court they in equity became receivers of the property. And, when we say that,

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

125

we give them a better status than we candidly believe
they deserve, because, however far their "moral good
faith" extended in respect to operations during the litigation, it surely did not extend beyond the time when the
District Court entered its decree quieting title to the lands
in the United States. Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101.
After the filing of the bill for injunction, defendants
proceeded at their peril (Wingert v. First National Bank,
223 U. S. 670), and much more so after the adverse decree
of the District Court was rendered. Notwithstanding
their disregard of the executive order withdrawing these
lands from entry and location, notwithstanding the decree
of the court holding them to be trespassers, notwithstanding that they refused to surrender the property to the receiver as ordered by the court and continued their trespasses, these defendants now assert that the United States
should insure them against loss in their unlawful operations. The action of the defendants in retaining possession of, and in operating, the wells was a continuance of'
the trespasses giving rise to new causes of action. 3 Sedgwick Damages (9 ed.), § 924. For this the United States
might have maintained new suits at law, for damages;
and in that event the decrees of August, 1919, would not
have been a bar to the subsequent suits.
The clerk's commission of one per cent is properly taxable as costs against the defendants. Section 828, Rev.
Stats.; Blake v. Hawkins, 19 Fed. 204; Fagan v. Cullen,
28 Fed. 843; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R., 283
Fed. 937; Berkman v. United States, 250 U. S. 144;
McGovern.v. United States, 272 Fed. 262; United States
v. Hunsicker, 298 Fed. 278.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are second appeals of two of the cases which were
before this court in Mason v. United States, 260 U. S.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

545. The suits were brought by the United States to have
its title to certain tracts of land confirmed, its possession
thereof restored, and defendants enjoined from setting !up
claims thereto, etc. In addition, the government prayed
for an accounting in respect of the oil and gas removed
from the lands by the defendants. We held that the suits
primarily involved the question of title to the lands and
their protection against continuing trespasses, to which
the accounting was incidental and dependent; and that
the causes of action being, therefore, essentially local, the
measure of damages to be allowed on the accounting came
within the controlling scope of Article 501 of the Civil
Code of Louisiana, under which the cost of production
must be first deducted from the value of the oil produced
even though the defendants went into possession in technical bad faith but in moral good faith.
The cases were referred to a master, who found the
primary issues in favor of the government and made an
accounting up to January 1, 1918. At that time, the cost
of drilling, equipping and operating the wells, through
and by means of which the oil was extracted, greatly exceeded the value of the oil produced, and, in accordance
with the Louisiana rule, no recovery on the accounting was
allowed by the master or the trial court, except in a particular not affected by the rule. The decree in each case was
for the government and contained the following clause:
"That the defendants be and they are hereby ordered,
directed and required, to make a full, true and accurate
accounting to plaintiff of all oil extracted from said land
since January 1, 1918, and to pay to plaintiff the value
thereof, as ascertained by said accounting, together with
all rents and royalties derived therefrom, and that all of
plaintiff's rights to recover the oil produced from said
land by the defendants since January 1, 1918, be reserved."
Following the decision of this court, a stipulation was
submitted to the trial court, by which it was agreed that a

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

decree should be entered against each of the defendants
for a stated sum, if "the court should hold that plaintiff
is entitled to recover the net value of the oil produced
after January 1, 1918." It was further stipulated that
the total, value of all the oil produced from the beginning
of operations until the abandonment of the wells was less
in each case than the cost of production, that is to say,
that the entire operations of each defendant in the production of oil were conducted at a loss, the profit after January 1, 1918, not being sufficient to offset the loss incurred
in the production. of oil prior to January 1, 1918. Upon
the strength of the latter stipulation the trial court held
that the government was not entitled to recover anything.
The circuit court of appeals reversed the trial court, holding that defendants were not entitled to offset any part
of the cost of production prior to January 1, 1918, against
the value of the oil produced after that date. 298 Fed.
Rep. 281.
The government first contends that the decrees are not
final and that the appeals should be dismissed because the
court of appeals remanded the cases" for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court." The
general rule established by many decisions, of which
Haseltine v. Cent. Bk. of Springfield (No. 1), 183
U. S. 130, is an example, is that the face of the judgment is the test of its finality and that by this test
a judgment .of reversal remanding the cause for
further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of
the court ordinarily is not final. But the direction to
proceed consistently with the opinion of the court has
the effect of making the opinion a part of the mandate,
as though it had been therein set out at length. Metropolitan Co. v. Kaw Valley District, 223 U. S. 519, 523.
Under the stipulations above recited, the trial court was
bound to enter decrees for the government for the stated
sums of money if that court found that the government

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

was entitled to recover the net value of the oil produced.
The trial court found that the government was not so entitled and the decrees went accordingly. Turning to the
opinion, it will be seen that the circuit court of appeals
decided that the trial court erred "in entering the decrees
denying the complainant the right to recover the net
value of the oil, etc." The instruction for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion, therefore, was
equivalent to a direction to render judgment for the net
value-that is, for the exact sums set forth in the stipulations. See Moody v. Century Bank, 239 U. S. 374, 376;
Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S.
238, 241. There was no evidence to be taken or considered, and no change in the issue was possible; nothing
remained but the ministerial duty of entering a decree for
the precise sums which had been fixed beyond the power
of alteration. It follows that the jurisdictional objection
is without merit.
The original decrees of the trial court, rendered August
12, 1919, confirmed the accounting to January 1, 1918.
But defendants had operated the properties during the
pendency of the suit and they were ordered to make a
further accounting of oil extracted after that date. The
decrees, however, were final for purposes of the original
appeals to this court, since they decided the title to the
properties, ordered their delivery to the plaintiff, and enjoined further trespasses upon them, jurisdiction being retained merely of so much of the decrees as might be necessary to carry them into execution by compelling an additional accounting in respect of oil extracted pendente
lite. Mo. Kansas & Texas R. R. Co. v. Dinsmore, 108
U. S. 30; Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S. 180,
183; Forgay et al. v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, 204; Thomson v.
Dean, 7 Wall. 342, 345.
The decision of the circuit court of appeals seems to
have proceeded from the standpoint that one who continues

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

in possession of lands, originally taken in good faith, after
judgment against him, may not have the advantage of the
good faith of his original entry to enable him to offset his,
expenditures against the value of the oil extracted after
judgment pending proceedings on appeal. Whether, thus
stated, this is an accurate view of the law we need not stop
to inquire, since we are not here dealing with the common
law doctrine in respect of trespassers in good faith but
with the case of persons who knew all the facts from the
beginning and who in the light of those facts upon common law principles were possessors in legal bad faith but
in moral good faith. The adjudication of the trial court
added nothing to their knowledge of these facts. It simply
informed them that the conclusion in respect of their
rights which they had drawn from the facts was erroneous,
a conclusion with'the knowledge of which they must be
charged from the beginning, since, legally though not
morally, they were conclusively bound to know the law
even before it had been declared by the court. The moral
quality of their possession was not affected by the institution of the government's suit or the resistance which they
interposed before judgment to the government's contentions. And how can it be said chat the moral quality of
that possession was altered by the entry of the decrees?
for non constat that they would not turn out on appeal
to be wrong. An appeal is not a new suit in the appellate
court, but a continuation of the suit in the court below,
or, as this court has recently said, "a proceeding in the
original cause and the suit is pending until the appeal is
* disposed of." Mackenzie v. Engelhard Co., 266 U. S. 131,
142-143. It is but a step toward the final adjudication of
the original cause which the law allows quite as much as it
allows %defense in the first instance. We are of opinion
that withinthe principle of the Louisiana rule the defendants continued in possession in moral good faith until the
final adjudication upon appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

But it is said further that the accounting for oil
produced after January 1, 1918, must be kept entirely
separate and distinct from the operations prior to that
date, because they had been concluded and finally adjusted by the previous accounting;' and that, therefore,
the costs incurred prior to January 1, 1918, were not to be
considered in determining the offset against the value of
the oil produced after that date. To this we cannot agree.
The possession of the defendants was continuous. Its
character after January 1, 1918, was the same as it had
been before. The limitation of time over which the first
accounting extended was purely adventitious. It as well
might have been for a shorter or for a longer period. So
far as the accounting was concerned, the effect of the
decrees was to fix the principles, approve the master's report of a partial accounting, and direct a completion of it,
retaining jurisdiction over the decrees only so far as might
be necessary to that end.
If the production costs had been less than, or equal to,
the value of the oil extracted prior to January 1, 1918,
they would have been absorbed as eredits. But they exceeded this value, and it was impossible on the first accounting to give defendants the benefit of the excess,
since such costs could be utilized only by way of recoupment and not as the basis of an independent claim. The
two accountings, it is true, were separate, but the separation was purely artificial. In substance, the latter was a
continuation of the former, and, since the excess costs
could not, and, therefore, did not, enter into the preliminary accounting, we see nothing in the mere form of the
proceedings which should stand in the way of the excess
being allowed in the final accounting where the circumstances were so far changed as to furnish a proper basis
for allowing it as a further credit. The direction for the
final accounting was interlocutory and incidental to the
main decrees, made for the purpose of carrying them into

139

GULF REFINING CO. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

effect, and, hence, left the matter to which the direction
related open to change and adjustment by the trial court
and, upon its final disposition there, subject to separate
appellate review. See Forgay et al. v. Conrad, supra,
pp. 205-206; Adams v. Sayre, 76 Ala. 509.
There remains to be considered a matter of costs in
No. 59. By the original decree in that cause, defendants.
roywere ordered to pay the aggregate sum of $4,000 for
the
by
Company
alties received from the Gulf Refining
other defendants. This amount, together with interest,
dewas paid to the clerk in satisfaction. That officer
S.,
manded a commission of one per cent. under § 828 R.out
paying
and
keeping,
receiving,
which provides: "For
one
money, in pursuance of any statute or order of court,
paid."
and
kept,
received,
so
per centum on the amount
comThe trial court, upon a rule to show cause why the
entered
costs,
the
mission should not be paid as part of
an order disallowing the item, which order was reversed
reasonby the court of appeals. We are satisfied with the
its
follows
ing and decision of the appellate court Which
Fed.
298
previous decision in United States v. Hunsicker,
Co., 283
R.
Pennsylvania
v.
278. See also United States
point is
The
204.
Fed.
19
Fed. 937; Blake v. Hawkins,
clerks
placing
statute
the
made that after the passage of
amended
1182,
Stat.
of court on a salary basis (c. 49, 40
c. 46, 41 Stat. 1099) the commission was not a proper
is
item of taxable costs, and that since the governmentThe
not obligated for the one per cent., it cannot recover.
salary act provides that " all fees and emoluments authorized by law to be paid to. the clerks .
charged as heretofore, . . . collected

.

.

.

shall be
and
.

effect
paid into the Treasury of the United States." The
clerk's
of
taxability
the
of this is to leave the matter of
salaries
charges where it was. The government pays the
right
the
of
and steps into the shoes of the clerk in respect
government
to fees and emoluments- collected where the
is a party as well as in other cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

The decrees of the circuit court of appeals are reversed,
except the matter of costs, as to which the decree in No.
59 is affirmed.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.
ANDERSON v. CLUNE.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. -31.

Submitted October 5, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

A soldier's additional homestead right (Rev. Stats. § 2306) is an inheritable property right, which, if not exercised or transferred by
the donee, passes to his estate as other property, subject only to
the exercise of the rights given by § 2307 to the widow and minor
orphan children. Webster v. Luther, 103 U. S. 331. P. 141.
ANSWER

to a question certified by the Circuit Court of

Appeals, on an appeal from a decree of the District Court
holding Anderson as trustee of a piece of land patented to
him, which Clune claimed under a prior entry based on
an assignment of an additional homestead right made by
heirs of a deceased soldier.
Mr. Burgess W. Marshall, for appellant.
Mr. Norman T. Mason, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1872, A. K. Johnson, an honorably discharged soldier
of the Civil War, made a homestead entry of 80 acres.
He died in 1875, leaving a widow, who died in 1917, neither
having disposed of the husband's additional homestead
right. Johnson also left four children, all over the age of
21 years at the date of the death of the widow; and they,
together with the widow of a deceased son, sold and as-

