UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO.
406

411

Syllabus.

dent resulting in the injury to Goneau while he was
engaged in making a coupling in the discharge of lis duty,
the case was rightly submitted to the jury under the
Safety Appliance Act; and the issues having been determined by the jury in his favor, the judgment of the trial
court was properly affirmed. Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S.
239, 244.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE IMPROVE-

MENT COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 3.

Argued March 10, 11, 1924.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. An adjudication of a Circuit Court of Appeals final in its nature
as to the general subject of the litigation may be reviewed by this
Court, without awaiting the determination of a separate matter
affecting only the parties to such particular controversy. P. 413.
2. Under the provision of the Rivers and Harbors Act of July 18,
1918, directing that in proceedings to condemn lands in connection
with any improvement of rivers, where a part only of any parcel
is taken, the jury "shall take into consideration by way of reducing
the amount of compensation or damages any special and direct
benefit to the remainder arising from the improvement," an increase
in value of such remainder, caused by its frontage on a river as
widened and deepened by the improvement and the right of immediate access to and use of the improved stream, is such a "special
and direct benefit," although the remaining portions of other
riparian parcels would be similarly benefited. P. 414.
3. In the absence of a controlling local law, the right of the owner of
riparian property on a navigable river to have access from the
front of his land to the navigable part of the stream, and, when
not forbidden by public law, to construct landings, wharves or
piers for this purpose, is a property right incident to his ownership of the bank, which, though subject to the absolute power of
Congress over the improvement of navigable rivers, may not be
arbitrarily destroyed or impaired by legislation having no real or

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

substantial relation to the control of navigation or appropriateness
to that end. P. 418.
4. In view of the substantial character of this right, an instruction
in a condemnation case giving the jury to understand that, in considering benefits to -riparian land from a river improvement, the
owner's right amounted to no more than a mere uncertain and
contingent privilege of such access, etc., as the Government
might see fit to allow him, was error. P. 417.
5. An error which relates, not merely to formal or technical matters,
but to the substantial rights of the parties--especially when embodied in the charge to a jury-is ground for reversal unless it
appears from the whole record that it was harmless and did not
prejudice the rights of the complaining party. P. 421.
6. The Act of February 26, 1910, amending § 269 Jud. Code, did not
alter this rule. Id.
285 Fed. 111, reversed.

ERROR to judgments of-the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed judgments against the United State* recovered in the District Court by owners of riparian land
in a consolidated condemnation proceeding brought in
aid of a river improvement.

Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Alfred Lucking, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Howell
Van Auken, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
was on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Selden Dickinson and Charles A. Wagner, with
whom Messrs. Henry M. Campbell and Elliott G. Stevenson were on the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. Paul B. Moody filed a supplemental brief for defendants in error, Forman Company and Ramsby.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Pursuant to an appropriation for the improvement of
the Rouge River, Michigan, made in the Rivers and Har-

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO. 413
411

Opinion of the Court.

bors Act of August 8, 1917,1 the United States filed in the
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan five
petitions for the condemnation of numerous parcels of
riparian land needed for such improvement, and, also, of
a gas main passing underneath the river.2
The petitions were consolidated, and a jury trial had
resulting in seventy-three awards of compensation to the
property owners. Judgments were entered confirming all
these awards. Writs of error were sued out by the United
States to review the judgments as to fifteen of the awards
to riparian land owners and the award to the owner of
the gas main. These were heard by the Circuit Court of
Appeals as one case, and all the judgments were affirmed
except that awarding compensation to the owner of the
gas main, as to which a new trial was granted, 285 Fed.
111. This writ of error is brought to review the judgments
as to the awards thus affirmed, involving fifteen parcels
of land.
1. We are of opinion that, although a new trial was
granted as to the award to the owner of the gas main, the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the awards
to the riparian land owners, has such finality and completeness that it may be reviewed under this writ of error.
The controversy as to the gas main is entirely distinct
140 Stat. 250, 258, c. 49, § 1.
2- The appropriation was made on condition that the "local interests" should donate the necessary land and settle all claims for damages. Act of 1917, supra; Ho. Doe. No. 2063, 64th Cong., 2nd Sess.,
pp. 5, 15. The "local interests" which had undertaken to secure
the necessary lands, were unable to obtain them by purchase; and,
at the request of the Secretary of War, condemnation proceedings
were instituted in the name of the United States. Act of May 16,
1906, c. 2465, 34 Stat. 196, as amended by the Act of June 29, 1906,
c. 3628, 34 Stat. 632. In order that the United States might be given
immediate possession and proceed with the work, the Ford Motor
Co., the principal "local interest," made a deposit to cover any
awards of compensation and damages that might be made. Act of
July 18, 1918, c. 155, 40 Stat, 904) 911,

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

from those as to the riparian lands; and its result can
have no bearing whatever upon the awards to the land
owners. While the general rule requires that a judgment
of*a federal court shall be final ar I complete before it may
be reviewed on a writ of error or appeal, it is well settled
that an adjudication final in its nature as to a matter distinct from the general subject of the litigation and affecting only the parties to the particular controversy, may be
reviewed without awaiting the determination of the general litigation. Williams v. Morgan, 111 U. S. 684, 699;
Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 371; Arnold v. Guimarin,
263 U. S 427, 434. And so, conversely, ari adjudication
final in its nature as to the general subject of the litigation
may be reviewed without awaiting the determination of a
separate matter affecting only the parties to such particular controversy.
2. The principal matter here involved relates to the
-benefits to the land owners which were to be considered in
reduction of their compensation and damages. The
Rivers and Harbors Act of July 18, 1919,' contains a provision-whose validity is not questioned-that in all condemnation proceedings by the United States to acquire
lands for the public use in connection with any improvement of rivers, where a part only of any parcel of land
is taken, the jury "shall take into consideration by way
of reducing the amount of compensation or damages any
special and direct benefit to the remainder arising from
the improVement." In each of the fifteen instances here
involved the United States condemned only a portion of
the parcel of land belonging to the riparian owner. It
insists that there was error in the instructions to the jury
in reference to the extent and measure of the benefits to
the remainder.
The Rouge River, which empties into the Detroit River,
had long been used for purposes of navigation, and various
S40 Stat. 901, 911, c. 155, § 6.

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO.
411

415

Opinion of the Court.

industrial plants were located along its banks. Although
it had been somewhat improved by the United States
prior to 1917, the channel was narrow, winding, comparatively shallow, and incapable of accommodating large
freighters: Under the terms of the Act of 1917 the new
improvement was to be made in accordance with a plan
recommended by the engineers of the War Department.4
This contemplated straightening the channel of the river
and widening and deepening it for about four miles above
its mouth, so that it would accommodate the largest type
of freighters on the Great Lakes and become, as was said,
"practically a long slip serving for numerous docks and
industries." The bottom width of the new channel was
to be 200 feet, the banks sloping to a top width of 290 feet
between the harbor lines. After its completion riparian
owners desiring to construct docks were to be "required
to locate the dock line or retaining wall" upon the harbor
line, and excavate the bank "in front of the retaining wall
or dock front " to the depth necessary to permit vessels to
lie alongside.
The portions of the lands which were condemned were
those lying within the limits of the widened channel or
harbor lines. The United States contended that the
remaining portions of these parcels would receive special
and direct benefits from the improvement by reason of
fronting on the widened river and -having direct access
thereto for the building of dopks and other purposes of
navigation for which they had not been previously
available.
We are of opinion that an increase in the value of the
renffaining portion of any parcel of land caused by its
frontage on the widened river, carrying a right of immediate access to and use of the improved stream, would
constitute a special and direct benefit within the meaning
of the statute, as distinguished from a benefit common to
Ho. Doc. No. 2063, Note 2, supra, pp. 10, 11.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

all the lands in the vicinity, although the remaining portions of other riparian parcels would be similarly benefited. This is in accordance with the rule recognized by
this court and established by the weight of authority in
the state courts in reference to special benefits to lands
abutting upon a new or widened street. Bauman v. Ross,
167 U. S. 548, 575; Allen v. Charlestown, 109 Mass. 243,
246; Hilbourne v. Suffolk, 120 Mass. 393, 394; Cross v.
Plymouth, 125 Mass. 557, 558; Abbott v. Cottage City,
143 Mass. 521, 526; Lewis v. Seattle, 5 Wash. 741, 758;
Lowe v. Omaha, 33 Neb. 587, 593; St. Louis Railway v.
Fowler, 142 Mo. 670, 683; 2 Lewis' Eminent Domain, 3d
ed., § 702, p. 1216. And see Roberts v, Commissioners,
21 Kans. 247, 252; Trosper v. Commissioners, 27 Kans.
391, 393. In Allen v. Charlestown, supra, 246, the rule
is thus stated: "The benefit is not the less direct and
special to the land of the petitioner, because other estates
upon the same street are benefited in a similar manner.
The kind of benefit, which is not allowed to be estimated for the purpose of such deduction, is that which
comes from sharing in the common advantage and convenience of increased public facilities, and the general
advance in value of real estate in the vicinity by reason
thereof. . . . The advantages of more convenient access
to the particular lot of land in question, and of having
a front upon a more desirable avenue, are direct benefits
to that lot, giving it increased value in itself. It may
be the same, in greater or less degree, with each and every
lot of land upon the same street. But such advantages
are direct and special to each lot. They are in no proper
sense common because there are several estates, or many
even, that are similarly benefited."
But while the trial judge recognized the right of the
United States to the deduction of such special benefits, if
any, it insists that in charging the jury in reference to
then he eri'oneously minimized their nature and extent.

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO. 417
411

Opinion of the Court.

In this portion of the charge the court stated, inter alia,
that the Government had "the absolute power of control"
over navigable streams, and the right to deprive any
riparian owner of all access to the navigable portion of
the stream and order the removal of any docks or other
structures placed in the stream; that the deepening and
widening of the channel would not confer on any riparian
owner any property right to use the river for loading or
unloading of vessels, this being "subject to the absolute
power of control by the Government "; that the jury
could not make any deduction of benefits on the theory
that the improvement would increase any property right
in connection with the access to or use of the river or
bring the owner any new or different property right of
access and use for purposes of navigation; that no benefit
could be deducted unless the remainder of the land was
rendered suitable for new or greater uses in navigation
because of its new location "and because of a greater
opportunity directly and specially to enjoy such use of
the improved river as the Government may permit such
owner to have; " and that the jury should keep "always
in mind the uncertainty of securing from the Government
the privilege to enjoy these advantages, and the limited
character of whatever advantages may be so secured."
The United States not only excepted to these portions of
the charge, but also requested that the jury be instructed, as bearing upon the existence and amount of
the special benefits, that a riparian owner bordering on
the new stream would have in respect thereto the usual
rights of navigation pertinent to riparian property, that
is, the right of access to the navigable part of the river in
front of his property and the right to make a landing,
dock or pier upon his harbor line, subject only to such
general rules and regulations as the Government, in its
power over navigation, might properly impose for the
protection of the public right of navigation; that this

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

power of the Government "over navigation for the protectiorn of public rights can not be arbitrarily and capriciously exercised so as to destroy these riparian rights,
but must be exercised with reasonable relations to the
requirements of navigation"; and that, by the terms
of the plan of improvement, riparian owners whose lands
would border the new stream, were given the right or
privilege of constructing docks or retaining walls for their
use upon the harbor line, and to excavate the bank in
front thereof to the depth. necessary to permit vessels to
lie alongside. These requests were denied; and -the
United States excepted.
We are of opinion that the giving of these instructions
and the refusal of these requests involved prejudicial
error. It is well settled that in the absence of a controlling
local law otherwise limiting the rights of a riparian owner
upon a navigable river, Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1,
40, he has, in addition to the rights commofi to the public, a property right, incident to his ownership of the
bank, of access from the front of his land to the navigable
part of the stream, and when not forbidden by public law
may construct landings, wharves or piers for this purpose. Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23, 31; Railroad Co. v.
Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 289; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall.
497, 504; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S.
691, 699; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226, 246; Illinois
Central Railroad v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, 445; Weems
Steamboat Co. v. People's Co., 214 U. S. 345, 355;
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53, 70.
There is no limitation upon this right of a riparian owner
in tb laws of Michigan. On the contrary it was recog0 i zod in Lorman v. Benson, 8 Mich. 18, 25, that the rights
of riparian owners must be determined by the common law
so far as applicable to the local situation; and in Ryan v.
Brown, 18 Mich. 196, 210, it was said that: "If wharves
and similar conveniences were not allowed upon our large

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO.
411

419

Opinion of the Court.

streams, the shipping business would become practically
worthless. It can never be unlawful for a land owner to
make such wharves and landings as will accommodate all
vessels ordinarily using the stream, unless there are some
exceptional circumstances, as narrows, bends, or the
like, which may in particular cases render his structure improper."
This right of a riparian owner, it is true, is subordinate
to the public right of navigation, and subject to the general rules and regulations imposed for the protection of
such public right. And it is of no. avail against the
exercise of the absolute power of Congress over the improvement of navigable rivers, but must suffer the consequences of the improvement of navigation, if Congress
determines that its continuance is detrimental to the
public interest in the navigation of the river. United
States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., supra, 62, 70.
The right of the United States in the navigable waters
within the several States is, however, "limited to the control thereof for the purposes of navigation." Port of
Seattle v. Oregon Railroad, 255,U. S. 56, 63. And while
Congress, in the exercise of this power, may adopt, in its
judgment, any means having some positive relation to the
control of navigation and not otherwise inconsistent with
the Constitution, United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo.,
supra, 62, it may not arbitrarily destroy or impair the
rights of riparian owners by legislation which has no real
or substantial relation to the control of navigation or appropriateness to that end. In Yates v. Milwaukee, supra,
504, it was said in reference to the right of a riparian
owner on a havigable stream: "This riparian right is
property and is valuable, and though it must be enjoyed
in due subjection to the rights of the public, it cannot be
arbitrarily or capriciously destroyed or impaired." This
language was cited with approval in Illinois Central Railroad v. Illinois, supra, 445.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

Considering the charge of the court in the light of these
general principles, we find that it was permeated by the
fundamental error, emphasized by the refusal of the requests, that the jury were left to determine the amount
of the benefits to be d-. acted on the theory that a riparian owner on the improved river would have merely such
uncertain and contingent "privileges" of access to the
navigable stream and of constructing docks fronting on
the harbor line, as the Government, in the exercise of an
absolute control over the navigation of the river, might
see fit to allow him, instead of being instructed that he
would have a right to such access and the construction
and maintenance of such docks until taken away by the
Government in the due exercise of its power of control
over navigation. And this error was the more serious
since the plan of the improvement contemplated that the
improved river should become a slip for docks and industries and recognized the right of a riparian owner to construct docks upon the harbor line; and there was nothing
in the evidence indicating any probability that the Government would at any time abrogate or curtail this right
in any respect.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while stating that the
trial court had over-emphasized the elements of uncertainty in the rights of riparian owners and the contingent
character of these rights, was of opinion that, under all
the circumstances, such over-emphasis was not sufficiently
prejudicial to call for a reversal of the judgment. With
this we cannot agree. The charge was not merely an
over-emphasis of the contingent character of -the rights of
the riparian owners, but in substance an instruction that
they had no rights in this respect, and could only obtain
uncertain privileges, as a matter of grace. There is an
essential difference between a substantial property right
which may be enjoyed until taken await in the appropriate
exercise of a paramount authority, and an uncertain and

UNITED STATES v. RIVER ROUGE CO.
411

421

Opinion of the Court.

contingent privilege which may not be allowed at all.
The failure to observe this distinction went to the root of
the charge in reference to the deduction of benefits. And
its natural, if not inevitable, effect, was to lead the jury
to a lower estimate of the benefits than would have been.
made under a proper charge.
The present case is not controlled by the provision of
§ 269 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of
February 26, 1919,' that in an appellate proceeding judgment shall be given after an examination of the entire
record, "without regard to technical errors, defects, or
exceptions which do not affect the substantial rights of
the parties." We need not enter upon a discussion of the
divergent views which have been expressed in various
Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the effect of the Act of
1919. It suffices to say that since the passage of this Act,
as well as before, an error which relates, not to merely
formal or technical matters, but to the substantial rights
of the parties--especially when embodied in the charge
to a jury-is to be held a ground for reversal, unless it
appears from the whole record that it was harmless and
did not prejudice the rights of the complaining party.
See Yazoo Railroad v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531, 533;
Fillippon v. Albion Slate Co., 250 U. S. 76, 82. In the
presunt case the error iii the charge could not but mislead
the jury in reference to a material element necessary for
its consideration. in determining the amounts of the
awards; and it cannot be said from the whole record that
the substantial rights of the United States were not
prejudiced thereby. The judgments of the District Court
should therefore have been reversed, and new trials
granted.
3. It is unnecessary to set forth various errors assigned
as to other rulings of the trial court. These matters were
fully and carefully considered by the Circuit Court of
1140 Stat. 1181, c. 48.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
269 U. S.

Syllabus.

Appeals, and we are entirely satisfied with the conclusions
which it reached in reference to them.
The judgments of the District Court and Circuit Court
of Appeals a re reversed, and the cause is remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in accordance with
this opinion.
Judgments,reversed.
UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON

ET AL.

UNITED STATES v. YALE & TOWNE MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 337, 420.

Argued November 20, 1925.-Decided January 4,1926.

1. The Revenue Act of 1916 imposed a tax on net income and profits
ascertained by deducting from gross income, expenses paid, losses
sustained, interest and taxes paid during the calendar year, but
provided, § 13(d), that "a corporation . . . keeping accounts
upon any basis other than that of actual receipts and disbursements,
unless such other basis does not clearly reflect its income, may,
subject to regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, make its
return upon the basis upon which its accounts are kept, in which
case the tax shall be computed upon its income as returned."
Held, that where the taxpayer's books, reflecting its income, were
kept upon an "accrual" basis, i. e., by charging against income
earned during the taxable period (1916) the expenses incurred in
and attributable to the process of earning income during that
period, and made its return upon that basis and not the basis of
actual receipts and disbursements, it was permitted under the
statute, as correctly construed by a Treasury regulation, to include
in its deductions the amount of a " reserve" entered on its books
for taxes imposed by the United States on the profits of munitions
made and sold by the taxpayer during that year, although the tax
bad not "accrued" in the sense of having been assessed and become due; and that it was not permissible, as the taxpayer
attempted, to defer deduction of the tax until the income return
for the following year, during which the tax became due and was
paid. Pp. 438, 441.

