328

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

husband the most obvious target for the shaft, but the
fund taxed, while liable to be taken for his debts, is not
liable to be taken for the wife's, Civil Code, § 167, so that
the remedy for her failure to pay might be hard to find.
The reasons for holding him are at least as strong as those
for holding trustees in the cases where they are liable
under the law. § 219. See Regulations 65, Art. 341.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND dissents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the case.

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT, ATTORNEY GENERAL,
No. 20, Original.

ET AL.

Submitted October 5, 1925.-Decided. January 4,
1926.

1. A bill by a State for an injunction against federal officers charged
with the administration of a federal statute can not be entertained
by this Court, where the bill does not show that any right of the
State which in itself is an appropriate subject of judicial cognizance, is being, or is about to be, affected prejudicially by the application or enforcement of the Act, but seeks merely to obtain a
judicial declaration that, in certain features, the Act exceeds the
authority of Congress and encroaches upon that of the State.
P. 330.
2. The bill in this case, which seeks to draw in question the constitutionality of parts of the Federal Water Power Act in their relation to waters within or bordering on the complaining State, fails
to present any case or controversy appropriate for exertion of the
judicial power. P. 334.
3. The power of Congress to regulate interstate and foreign commerce includes the power to control, for the purposes of such commerce, all navigable waters accessible to it and within the United
States, and to that end to adopt all appropriate measures to free
such waters from obstructions to navigation and to preserve, and
even enlarge, their navigable capacity; and the authority and rights
of a State in respect of such waters within its limits are subordinate
to this power of Congress. P. 337.
Bill dismissed.

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

Argument for New Jersey.

a motion to dismiss a bill filed by the State of New
Jersey, against the Attorney General of the United
States and the members of the Federal Power Commission, all alleged to be citizens of other States, to enjoin
the defendants from taking any steps to apply or enforce,
in respect of waters within or bordering on New Jersey,
certain provisions of the Federal Water Power Act.
ON

Messrs. Thomas F. McCran, Attorney General, William
Newcorn and Harry R. Coulomb, Assistant Attorneys
General, of New Jersey, for complainant.
The bill presents a justiciable controversy. It alleges
the State's proprietary interest in and over its water resources, from which it derives, and may expect, revenue
of considerable magnitude; that the defendants claim the
right under the Federal Water Power Act to license and
control such water resources and to receive revenue therefrom by way of license fees and otherwise; threats on
the part of the defendants to enforce the provisions of
the Act, and that such enforcement irreparably affects the
revenues of the State derived and to be derived from
such sources. These allegations set forth a specific and
concrete situation resulting in an irreparable injury to
the State individually, and to its citizens in their property rights derived through grants by the State. Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553; Louisville, etc.
R. R. v. Railroad Commissioners of Alabama, 157 Fed.
944; Waite v. Macy, 246 U. S.266. The defendants have
threatened to exercise certain authority under an act
which the complainant claims to be unconstitutional and
which, if exercised, would result in irreparable injury.
The bill presents a controversy within the original jurisdiction of this Court. Pennsylvania v. West Virginia,
262 U. S.591; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S.413;
.United States v. New Orleans R. R., 248 U. S.507; Missouri v. Illinois, etc., 180 U. S. 208; Kansas v. Colorado

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper
Co., 206 U. S. 230; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.
432; Cohen v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264.
The suit is not against the United States. Truax v.
Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Ex Parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
UnitedbStatesv. Lee, 160 U. S. 196; Kenningtonv. Palmer,
255 U. S. 100; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605. The bill sets forth a cause of action against all of
the defendants.
Solicitor General Beck, Messrs. Robert P. Reeder,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, Lewis W. Call
and J. F. Lawson were on the brief for defendants.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a bill in equity brought in this Court by the
State of New Jersey against the Attorney General of the
United States and the members of. the Federal Power
Commission, all alleged to be citizens of other States, to
obtain a judicial declaration that certain parts of the Act
of June 10, 1920, called the Federal Water Power Act, C.
285, 41 Stat. 1063, are unconstitutional in so far as they
relate to waters within or bordering on that State, and to
enjoin the defendants from taking any steps towards
applying or enforcing them, in respect of those waters.
The defendants respond with a motion to dismiss on the
grounds, among others, that the bill does not present a
case or controversy appropriate for the exertion of judicial
power but only an abstract question respecting the relative
authority of Congress and the State in dealing with such
waters. If this be a proper characterization of the bill the
motion to dismiss must prevail, as a reference to prior
decisions will show.
In Georgiav. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, this Court had before
it a bill by the State of Georgia challenging the power of
Congress to enact the so-called Reconstruction Acts and

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

Opinion of the Court.

seeking an injunction against the Secretary of War and
others to prevent them from giving effect to that legislation. On examining the bill the Court found that it
was directed against an alleged encroachment by Congress on political rights of the State and not against any
actual or threatened infringement of rights of persons or
property; and on that ground the bill was dismissed. The
nature and extent of the judicial power under the Constitution were much considered; the statement of Mr. Justice Thompson in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet.
75,-" It is only where the rights of persons or property
are involved, and when such rights can be presented
under some judicial form of proceedings, that courts of
justice can interpose relief. This court can have no right
to pronounce an abstract opinion upon the constitutionality of a state law. Such law, must be brought into
actual or threatened operation, upon rights properly falling under judicial cognizance, or a remedy is not to be had
here."-was quoted with approval; and the Court added:
"By the second section of the third article of the Constitution 'the judicial power extends to all cases, in law
and equity, arising under the Constitution, the laws of
the United States,' etc., and as applicable to the case in
hand, 'to controversies between a State and citizens of
another State,'-which controversies, under the Judiciary
Act, may be brought, in the first instance, before this
Court in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, and we
agree, that the bill filed, presents a case, which, if it be
the subject of judicial cognizance, would in form, come
under a familiar head of equity jurisdiction, that is, jurisdiction to grant an injunction to restrain a party from a
wrong or injury to the rights of another, where the danger, actual or threatened, is irreparable, or the remedy
at law inadequate. But, according to the course of proceeding under this head in equity, in order to entitle the
party to a remedy, a case must be presented appropriate

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

for the exercise of judicial power; the rights in danger,
as we have seen, must be rights of persons or property,
not merely political rights, which do not belong to the
jurisdiction of a court, either in law or in equity."
In Marye v. Parsons, 114 U. S. 325, an owner of coupons cut from bonds of the State of Virginia issued with
a guaranty that the coupons should be receivable in payment of taxes, brought a bill in equity in a federal court
in that State against the tax collectors to compel them
to recognize the guaranty and to disregard later statutes
forbidding acceptance of such coupons in payment of
taxes. The coupons were overdue, the State had made
default in their payment, and the tax collectors had announced a general purpose to follow the subsequent statutes. The coupons were transferrable and could be sold
at nearly their face value to other persons who had taxes
to pay, provided the plaintiff obtained a decree adjudging the subsequent statutes invalid and directing the collectors to accept the coupons when tendered in payment
of taxes by any lawful holder. Indeed, an arrangement to
sell the coupons on these terms had been effected before
the bill was filed. But no one was then in a position to
tender the coupons to the tax collectors, because the
plaintiff who owned the coupons had no tax to pay, and
because the prospective transferees, while having taxes
to pay, did not as yet own the coupons. The bill
set forth the situation just described and prayed a decree
along the lines suggested. In the court of first instance
the plaintiff obtained a decree, but this Court reversed it
and directed a dismissal of the bill for want of jurisdiction, saying:
"The bill as framed, therefore, calls for a declaration
of an abstract character, that the contract set out requiring coupons to be received in payment of taxes and debts
due to the State is valid; that the statutes of the General
Assembly of Virginia impairing its obligations are con-

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

333

Opinion of the Court.

trary to the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void; and that it is the legal duty of the collecting
officers of the State to receive them when offered in payment of such taxes and debts.
"But no court sits to determine questions of law in
thesi. There must be a litigation upon actual transactions
between real parties, growing out of a controversy affecting legal or equitable rights as to person or property. All
questions of law arising in such cases are judicially determinable. The present is not a case of that description."
In Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346, the question was whether, consistently with the limitations of the
judicial power, this Court could entertain, on an appeal
from the Court of Claims, a suit brought under a permissive Act of, Congress by members of the Cherokee Tribe
of Indians to determine the constitutional validity of
congressional enactments enlarging prior restrictions on
the alienation of their allotments and permitting newly-'
born children and other members of the tribe omitted
from a prior enrollment to share in the distribution of
tribal lands and funds. In an extended opinion the Court
pointed out that the suit did not present an actual controversy between the parties respecting any specific right
of person or property, but only a question of the power
of Congress to enact the legislation described, and held
that such a suit was not within the scope of the judicial power and could not be entertained by this Court,
originally or on appeal, even under a permissive Act of
Congress.
In Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 258
U. S. 158, where a bill praying that an act enlarging the
powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission and
creating the Railroad Labor Board be declared unconstitutional and action thereunder prevented by injunction was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, this Court
said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

"The bill is of unusual length, sixty-five printed pages.
Much of it is devoted to the presentation of an abstract
question of legislative power-whether the matters dealt
with in several of the provisiong of Titles III and IV fall
within the field wherein Congress may speak with constitutional authority, or within the field reserved to the
several States. The claim of the State, elaborately set
forth, is that they fall within the latter field, and therefore that the congressional enactment is void. Obviously, this part of the bill does not present a case or
controversy within the range of the judicial power as
defined by the Constitution. It is only where rights, in
themselves appropriate subjects of judicial cognizance,
are being, or are about to be, affected prejudicially by the
application or enforcement of a statute that its validity
may be called in question by a suitor and determined
by an exertion of the judicial power."
And in Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, the
Court recognized and gave effect to the reasoning and
principle of those cases by dismissing a bill brought by
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to restrain executive officers from giving effect to an act of Congress
alleged to be an unconstitutional usurpation of power, but
not shown to affect prejudicially any proprietary or other
right of the State subject to judicial cognizance.
On reading the present bill we are brought to the con-.
clusion, first, that its real purpose is to obtain a judicial
declaration that, in making certain parts of the Federal
Water Power Act applicable to waters within and bordering on the State of New Jersey, Congress exceeded its
own authority and encroached on that of the State, and
secondly, that the bill does not show that any right of
the State, which in itself is an appropriate subject of
judicial cognizance, is being, or about to be, affected
prejudicially 'by the application or enforcement of the
Act. We think the reasons for this conclusion will be

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

335

Opinion of the Court.

indicated sufficiently by describing the Act and then
.pointing out the distinctive features of the bill.
The Act is a long one, extends to all the States and
organized Territories and the District of Columbia, and
varies its operation according to local situations and
conditions. Some of its provisions are general, some
relate to areas containing public and Indian lands, and
some have special application to the use of government
dams in developing power. As respects the State of
New Jersey, the Act may be adequately described for
present purposes by stating that it relates particularly
to navigable waters; subjects their improvement and
utilization for purposes of navigation and developing
power to stated restrictions and supervision by a public
commission, which it creates; requires that such operations be carried on under preliminary permits and longterm licenses obtained from the commission and conditioned on compliance with the restrictions; provides that
no license "affecting the navigable capacity of any navigable waters" shall be issued until the plans of the dam or
other structures affecting navigation have been approved
by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War;
directs that preference be given to applications by the
State or any municipality; requires that each applicant
for a license to use the waters for power purposes submit
satisfactory evidence of his compliance with the laws of
the State and of his right to engage in such business; prescribes that licensees shall pay to the United States reasonable annual charges, to be fixed by the commission,
for the purpose of reimbursing the United States for the
cost of administering the Act, "and for the expropriation
to the Government of excessive profits until" the State
"shall make provision for preventing excessive profits or
the expropriation therefor [thereof] to" itself, but relieves the State and any municipality from the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

of any charge in respect of licenses for power purposes
sold without profit or used for public
where the power is'
purposes, and also in respect of licenses for projects primarily designed to improve navigation; and provides that
any person or corporation, including the State or any municipality, intending to construct a dam or other works in
a stream not declared navigable "may in their discretion" file a declaration of their intention with the commission, whereupon it shall by investigation ascertain
whether "the interests of interstate or foreign commerce " will be affected thereby, that if it finds they will
be affected the construction shall not proceed unless a
license is sought and obtained, and that if it finds the
other way the construction may proceed without a license.
Some provisions relate particularly to the development
of power, some only to improvement of navigation, and
others to both, but all taken together suggest, if they do
not show, that conservation for the purposes of navigation
is a leading object. Thus it is said, in § 9(a), that every.
licensed project must be "adapted to a comprehensive
scheme of improvement and utilization for the purposes
of navigation, of water-power development, and of other
beneficial uses," and, in § 10(c), that the licensee "shall
so maintain and operate said works a§ not to impair navigation." One provision declares that nothing in the Act
shall be construed as affecting or interfering with the
laws of the State relating to the "control, appropriation,
use, or distribution of water used in irrigation or for municipal or other uses, or any vested right acquired
therein." There are also provisions making it a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not exceeding $1,000,
for any licensee, or any person, wilfully to fail or refuse to
comply with any provision of the Act, condition of a
license, or regulation or order.' of the commission,-and
other provisions authorizing the Attorney General, on the
recommendation of the commission or the Secretary of

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

Opinion of the Court.

War, to bring suits to prevent, remedy or correct violations of the Act or lawful regulations or orders thereunder,
and also suits to revoke permits or licenses for violations
of their terms.
I Rightly to appraise the bill one should have in mind
the doctrine, heretofore firmly settled, that the power to
regulate interstate and foreign commerce, which the Constitution vests in Congress, includes the power to control,
for the purposes of such commerce, all navigable waters
which are accessible to it and within the United States,
whether within or without the limits of a State, and to
that end to adopt all appropriate measures to free such
waters from obstructions' to navigation and to preserve
and even enlarge their navigable capacity; and that the
authority and rights of a State in respect of such waters
within its limits, ahd in respect of the lands under them,
are subordinate to this power of Congress. Philadelphia
v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 634-638; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 62-65; Lewis Blue
Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82, 88; Greenleaf
Lumber Co. v. Garrison, 237 U. S. 251, 258, et seq.;
Willink v. United States, 240 U. S. 572, 580; United States
v. Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 703.
The bill is directed against many provisions of the Act,
especially those requiring permits and licenses and subjecting licensees to various restrictions and conditions and
those relating to projects for utilizing the waters in the
development of power; and it directly alleges that they
all go beyond the power of Congress and impinge on that
of the State. Plainly these allegations do not suffice as a
basis for invoking an exercise of judicial power.
The bill further alleges, in an indefinite way, that "it
is the intention" of the State to utilize the Morris Canal,
which it recently has acquired, for "water power development" and in the "conservation of potable waters ";
that there are "opportunities" for developing water

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

power at several places along streams which feed the canal
and in designated localities along the Delaware River
"where dams could be erected and power developed ";
that the State "contemplates "utilizing these opportunities "through a state agency or by private enterprise"
with a resulting profit to its treasury; that the State has
an established policy respecting "the conservation of
potable waters" which has been put into partial effect
" through its agencies and by private enterprise" -by
means of reservoirs and water works constructed at large
cost; and that in its sovereign capacity the State owns
lands under the Bay of New York, the Hudson River,
adjacent waters, and the Delaware River, from the leasing
of which for dock, pier and related purposes it derives
a large revenue. These allegations are followed by others,
similarly indefinite, to the effect that the challenged provisions of the Act, if applied and enforced, will interfere
with the State's contemplated development of "the aforesaid power projects," will jeopardize its policy respecting
the conservation of potable waters and work serious injury
to reservoirs and water works constructed and used in
that connection, will deprive the State of revenue from
the leasing of its submerged lands and from the development and conservation of water resources, and will subject the State and its citizens to onerous restrictions and
conditions not required for the protection or promotion
of navigation or of interstate or foreign commerce.I
There is no showing that the State is now engaged or
about to engage in any work or operations which the Act
purports to prohibit or restrict, or that the defendants are
interfering or about to interfere with any work or operations in which the State is engaged. If the use of particular
waters in connection with the Morris Canal or with any
reservoirs and water works, before the Act was passed,
gave rise, as the bill suggests, to a right to continue such
use, the Act does not purport to disturb, but rather to rec-

NEW JERSEY v. SARGENT.
328

339

Opinion of the Court.

ognize, that right; and there is no showing that the de-fendants are taking or about to take any steps to prevent
the State from exercising it. Passing that right, the State
is merely, shown to be contemplating power development
and water conservation in the future. There is no showing that it has determined on or is about to proceed with
any definite project. Neither is it shown that the defendants are now taking or about to take any definite
action respecting waters bordering on or within the State,
save as the commission is about to consider and act on
"various applications from persons in New Jersey" for
preliminary permits and licenses to utilize "navigable
waters on the boundary and inland" for the development of water power. As the applications are not further
described, it must be assumed that the permits are sought,
as the Act provides, " for the sole purpose of maintaining
priority of application for a license," and that the licenses
are sought conformably to the provision requiring applicants to submit satisfactory evidence of compliance with
the laws of the State with respect to "the appropriation,
diversion and use of water for power purposes" and to
" the right to engage in" that business. While the State
is thus apparently put in the position of objecting to the
licensing of projects sanctioned by its own laws, the billexplains that the objection is chiefly to the restrictions
and conditions to which, according to the terms of the
Act, an applicant is deemed to assent by seeking and accepting a license. These restrictions and conditions are
assailed in the bill as passing beyond the field of congressional power and invading that reserved to the State., But
whether they are thus invalid 6annot be made the subject of judicial inquiry until they are given or are about
to be given some practical application and effect. Naturally this will be after they become part of an accepted
license, and after some right, privilege, immunity or duty
asserted under them becomet the subject of actual con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

troversy. Such a situation is not presented here. As respects the State's submerged lands, the bill signally fails
to disclose any existing controversy within the range of
the judicial power. Stating merely that the State will be
deprived of revenue from the leasing of such lands is not
enough. Facts must be stated showing that the Act is
being or about to be applied in a way which does or will
encroach on or prejudicially affect the State's qualified
right in the lands. There is no such showing.
The State places some reliance on Pennsylvaniav. West
Virginia, 262 U. S.553. But in this it overlooks important factors in that decision. Two bills substantially
alike-one by Pennsylvania and the other by Ohio-were
considered. Both were brought to prevent the enforcement of a West Virginia statute restricting the carrying
of natural gas from that State into others. The gas had
been for several years carried in large and continuous
volume through pipe lines into Pennsylvania and Ohio,
and those States had come to be largely dependent on it
as a fuel for public institutions and otherwise. The
statute, in its first section, imposed on the pipe-line carriers an unconditional and mandatory duty (opinion
p. 593), which if respected would largely prevent, this
supply of fuel from moving into Pennsylvania and Ohio.
and would subject those States to great loss. The bills
disclosed that the situation when they were brought was
such that the statute directly and immediately would
effect a serious diminution of the volume of gas carried
into the complaining States, and on which they were.
dependent (p. 594). Of the cases thus presented the
Court said:
"Each suit presents a direct issue between two States
as to whether one may withdraw a natural product, a
common subject of commercial dealings, from an established current of commerce moving into the territory of
the other. The complainant State asserts and the de-

FIRST NAT. BANK v. ANDERSON.
328

Syllabus.

fendant State denies that such a withdrawal is an interference with interstate commerce forbidden by the Constitution. This is essentially a judicial question. It concededly is so in suits between private parties, and of
course its character is not different in a suit between
States.
"What is sought is not an abstract ruling on that question, but an injunction against such a withdrawal presently threatened and likely to be productive of great
injury. The purpose to withdraw is shown in the enactment of the defendant State before set forth and is about
to be carried into effect by her officers acting in her name
and at her command."
This bill falls far short of showing a situation like that
presented there, and what it does show falls on the other
side of the jurisdictional line.
Our conclusion is that the bill cannot be entertained.
Bill dismissed.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GUTHRIE CENTER
v. ANDERSON, COUNTY AUDITOR, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 26.

Argued January 27, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. In a case from a state court the question whether the federal
right was sufficiently alleged in the pleading must be determined
by this Court for itself. P. 346.

2. When a state court has treated a case as cognizable in equity,
this Court can not decline to review the federal questions involved
upon the ground that it was not so. Id.
3. Decree held reviewable by writ of error, and certiorari denied. Id.
4. The restriction imposed by Rev. Stats. § 5219, upon state taxa-

tion of national bank shares, viz., that the taxation "shall not be
at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State," was violated where the
national and state bank stock within a county, not exceeding
$316,852, was taxed at the rate of 143.5 mills per dollar, while

