OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

to show that it has now a different meaning; and, with
nothing in the context and no evidential circumstances to
suggest the contrary, we fairly may assume that the use
of the technical terms of the trade to which the statute
relates imports their technical meaning.
Decree reversed.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON,
COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 156.

Argued November 16, 17, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.

1. The mere fact that one .person has adopted and used a trademark on his goods does not prevent the adoption and use of the
same trade-mark by others on articles of a different description.

P. 379.
2. The law of trade-marks is but a part of the broader law of unfair
competition, the general purpose of which is to prevent one person
from passing off his goods or his business as the goods or business

of another. Id.
3. Whether the name of a corporation be regarded as a trade-mark,
a trade name, or both, the law affords protection against its appropriation on the same fundamental principles. P. 380.
4. The effect of assuming a name by a corporation under the law of
its creation is to exclusively appropriate it as an element of the
corporation's existence. Id.
5. Equity will enjoin the appropriation and use by another of a
trade-mark or trade name resembling the name of a corporation
where, from the closeness of the resemblance and the other facts
of the particular case, it appears that confusion of identity may
likely result to the injury of such corporation. P. 381.
6. The provision of § 5 of the Trade Mark Act of February 20, 1905,
that no mark consisting merely of the name of a corporation shall
be registered under the Act, is to be construed in harmony with
the foregoing principles, and does not prevent registration of part
of the name of a corporation where the partial appropriation is

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

373

Argument for Simplex Heating Co.

unlikely to deceive or confuse the public to the injury of the
corporation to which the name belongs. P. 381.
7. The fact that the word "Simplex" was a salient part of the name
of a corporation other than the applicant for registration, held
not a ground for refusing registration, where the goods to which
it was applied by the applicant were unlike those manufactured or
sold by the corporation, where many registrations of the same
word, singly or in combinations, had been made by others for other
goods, and where it did not appear that, standing alone, the word
denoted that corporation or any other, to the mind of the public.
P. 382.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, upon appeal to that court from a decree of
the District Court dismissing the bill, in a suit under
Rev. Stats. § 4915 brought by the American Steel Foundries against the Commissioner of Patents and Simplex
Electric Heating Co., to enforce registration of the word
"Simplex" as a trade mark for articles made and sold
by the plaintiff. See 262 U. S. 209; 256 U. S. 40; 258
Fed. 160.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson, for American Steel Foundries.
Solicitor General Mitchell filed a memorandum, submitting the case without brief or argument, on behalf of
Robertson, Commissioner.
Mr. Nathan Heard, for the Simplex Electric Heating
Company.
The prohibition of the registration of the name of a
person, firm, corporation, or association--that is, a personal name-is grounded on the same fundamental reason
as the prohibition of the registration of a geographical
term. It rests upon the essential character of the mark,
and has nothing to do with the character of the goods.
Congress has enacted that such marks are not to be given
the advantages of registration, but are to be left to the
protection afforded at common law and usually to the

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Simplex Heating Co.

269 U. S.

protection afforded by the law of unfair competition.
Almost all the States, in their corporation acts, have provisions preventing the adoption by one corporation of a
name the same as, or similar to, that of another; and
this is entirely independent of the business carried on by
the corporation. It is not the business, but the name,
which these statutes aim to protect. Not only is such a
provision common in state legislation, but it appears in
federal legislation, as, for example, in "An Act to Establish a Code of Law for the District of Columbia," approved March 3, 1901, § 604, as amended.
The same principles affecting trade-mark character and
registration are largely true of the names of persons, corporations, etc. But there is this difference: that a corporation, or other artificial person, may adopt either (a)
the name of an individual, as, for example, "Remington,"
or (b) an entirely arbitrary name, as, for example,
"Simplex." The former cannot be, the latter may be, a
valid trade-mark. But in the Trade Mark Act the names
of persons are always treated on precisely the same basis
as the names of corporations. See United Cigar Stores Co.
v. Miller Bros. Co., 15 T. M. Rep. 143. The only exceptions which Congress has made are (a), in the very clause
under consideration, by permitting registry if the name
is written, etc., "in some particular or distinctive manner,
or in association with a portrait of the individual "; (b),
in the clause added to § 5 by the Act of February 18, 1911,
which permits registry if the mark is "otherwise registerable" and is "the name of the applicant or a portion
thereof "; (c), in the provisions of the so-called ten-year
clause, forming a part of this § 5, permitting registry
of any mark "in actual and exclusive use as a trade
marr during the ten years from February 20, 1895, to
Febrqary 20, 1905; (d), in the provisions of the Act of
March 19, 1920, granting certain limited privileges of
registration. No serious contention can be made that the

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

375

Argument for Simplex Heating Co.

prohibited mark must include every word in the corporate
name. United Cigar Stores Co. v. Miller Bros. Co., 15
T. M. Rep. 143; National Cigar Stands Co. v. Frishmuth
Bro. & Co., 54 App. D. C. 275.
In the proviso of § 5, with which this case is concerned,
the word " merely" is used three times. In every case it
is obviously an adverb modifying the verb "consists." It
means that the mark shall not be registered if it merely
consists of (1) the name of an individual, firm, corporation, or association; (2) words or devices which are descriptive, etc.; (3) a geographical name or term. The
plaintiff in effect seeks to make the word "merely" in
this section an adjective modifying the word "name," so
as to make the section mean that the trade-mark shall
not be registered if it consists of the entire, *ihole, complete name. In the case of the name, with which we are
here concerned, the section contains its own definition as
to the meaning of the word "merely," that is-" not
written, printed, impressed or woven in some particular
or distinctive manner or in association with a portrait of
the individual." Dunlap & Co. v. The Jackson and Gutman, 13 T. M. Rep. 66; Beckwith v. Com. of Patents,
252 U. S.538. The amendment by the Act of February
18, 1911, is furthermore a distinct ratification by Congress
of this construction of the clause in question. It will be
seen from the legislative history that the object was by
amendment to prevent the prohibitory clause from denying registration to the applicant's own name, as had been
done in Ex parte Champion Safety Lock Co., 143 0. G.
1109, and In re The Success Company, 34 App. D. C. 443,
and other cases. The use of the words "or a portion
thereof" in the amendatory Act, which reads:* "That
nothing herein shall prevent the registration of a trade
mark otherwise registrable because of its being the name
of the applicant or a portion thereof "-shows that the
Act in the clause in question prevented, in the opinion of

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Simplex Heating Co.

269 U. S.

Congress, the registration of a word which formed a portion only of a corporate name. Nowhere else in the Act,
except in the clause in question, was there anything
requiring this language.
Registration being a privilege, may be granted by Congress to such extent and to Such classes of marks or
persons as it may please. If property rights exist in a
mark, that fact alone does not entitle the owner of such
rights to registration. All provisions relating to registration are wholly statutory and may be modified or entirely
withdrawn at any time. Stamatopoulos v. Stephano
Bros., 41 App. D. C. 590. There are no general principles
-of substantive law applicable, but all questions must be
determined according to the terms and limitations of the
statutes. Registration confers no title, and there is no
vosted right, or vested right of property in -trade-mark
registrations, and registration confers no new right of
title. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; United Drug Co.
v. Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 90; Hanover Star Milling Co.
v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403; Andrew Jergens Co. v. Woodbury, Inc., 273 Fed. 953; Ewing, Cammissioner, v. Standard Oil Co., 42 App. D. C. 321.
The fundamental principles and the details of trademark legislation have throughout been treated arbitrarily
and inconsistently by Congress. The history of the trademark legislation, the judicial construction placed upon
§ 5 of the Act of 1905, and the original and amendatory
acts before and since the Act of 1905 establish the clear
inteit of Congress to enact and maintain in force the clause
in controversy in its ordinary, natural meaning, and thus
to efiforce the construction given this clause repeatedly
by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia. Act
of 1870; Act of 1881; G. & C. Merriam Co. v. Syndicate
Pub. Co. 237 U. S. 618; Act of 1905; 'Kentucky Distilleries Co, v. Old Lexington Club Distillery Co., 31 App.
D. C. 223; Ex parte Champion Safety Lock Co., 143 O. G.

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

377

Opinion of the Court.

1109; In re The Success Co., 34 App. D. C. 443; amendatory Act of February 18, 1911, c. 113, 36 Stat. 918; amendment of January 8, 1913, c. 7, 37 Stat. 649; N. Y. Athletic
Club v. John M. Given, Inc., 4 T. M. Rep. 172; Asbestone
Co. v. The Carey Mfg. Co., 41 App. D. C. 507; In. re
United Drug Co., 44 App. D. C. 209; Mansfield Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Ford Motor Co., 44 App. D. C. 205; Burrell & Co. v. Simplex Elec. Heating Co., 44 App. D. C.
452; Simplex Elec. Heating Co. v. Ramey Co., 46 App.
D. C. 400; In re American Steel Foundries, 258 Fed. 160;
Beechnut Cereal Co. v. Beech-Nut Packing Co., 273 Fed.
367; Tinker v. PattersonCo., 287 Fed. 1014; Howard Co.
v. Baldwin Co., 48 App. D. C. 437; In reLandis Machine
Co., 298 Fed. 1019; Bernet, Craft & Kauffman Co. v.
Pussy Willow Co., Inc., 2 Fed. (2d) 1013; Eversharp
Pencil Co. v. American Safety Razor Co., 297 Fed. 894.
National Cash Register Co. v. National PaperProducts
Co., 297 Fed. 351 turned upon the question of identity of
goods, and the Court of Appeals, in its decision affirming
the Commissioner of Patents, devoted itself entirely to
that question.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
in Stephano Bros., Inc., v. Stamatopoulos, 238 Fed. 89,
has given the statute the same construction. During this
long period the matter has been repeatedly brought to
the attention of Congress, and Congress has amended the
Act in the particulars which we have noted. The intent
of Congress, therefore, to maintain the construction of
this clause placed upon it by the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia has been clearly evidenced. The
Act of March 19, 1920, was for the very purpose of relieving cases like that of plaintiff.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Plaintiff and its predecessor, the Simplex Railway Appliance Company, have used the trade-mark "Simplex"

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

on railway car bolsters since 1897 and on car couplers
since 1907, the former being registered in the Patent Office
in 1911, the latter, in 1909. In 1917 plaintiff adopted and
thereafter used the same trade-mark on brake rigging,
brake heads, brake beams, brake shoes, brake hangers, and
clasp brakes. Application* was made in 1917 to register
the trade-mark for the last named uses, but the Commissioner of Patents refused the registration on the ground
that the trade-mark consisted merely in the name of a
corporation, viz., the Simplex Electric Heating Company,
defendant herein. The commissioner's ruling was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia. In re American Steel Foundries, 258 Fed. 160. The
case came to this court on certiorari, but was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. Sub nom., American Steel
Foundries v. Whitehead, Commissioner of Patents, 256
U. S. 40.
Thereupon, this suit in equity was brought in the
federal district court for the northern district of Illinois
under § 4915 R. S. (American Foundries v. Robertson,
262 U. S. 209), to which the Commissioner of Patents
voluntarily appeared. That court dismissed the bill and
an appeal to the court of appeals followed.
The defendant company was organized as a corporation
in 1902. Its predecessors in business had adopted in
1886, and thereafter had used, the trade-mark "Simplex"
on insulating or protected conducting wire, the same being
registered in 1890. In 1906, the company registered
trade-marks comprising the word "Simplex" as applied
to a large variety of other goods.
The word "Simplex" has comprised the whole or a part
of trade-marks registered in the Patent Office in approximately sixty registrations by nearly as many different
parties and as applied to many classes of merchandise.
There are other corporations in the country which now
have or have had names which embody the word "Sim-

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

379

Opinion of the Court.

plex." Neither the defendant company nor its predecessors ever have been engaged in the manufacture or sale
of any of the devices upon which plaintiff has used the
trade-mark as hereinbefore specified.
Upon these facts the court' below has certified the following questions upon which it desires instruction:
"1. Does the clause of Section 5 of the Trade Mark Act
of February 20, 1905, 'Provided, that no mark which consists merely in the name of an individual, firm, corporation, or association not written, printed, impressed, or
woven in some particular or distinctive manner, or in association with a portrait of an individual . . . shall be
registered under the terms of this Act,' prohibit registration as a trade-mark under said Act of the word' Simplex'
by the plaintiff under the recited facts?
"2. Does the said clause quoted of Section 5 prohibit
registration under the Act of February 20, 1905, of a
trade-mark consisting solely of a single word otherwise
registrable under the said Act if that word is the salient
feature of the name of a corporation not the applicant for
registration?
"3. Does the above quoted clause of Section 5 of the
Trade Mark Act of February 20, 1905, prohibit the registration under said Act, of a common-law trade-mark
which is the name, or part of the name of another than
the applicant, whose business relates exclusively to goods
in a different and non-competing class from the goods on
which the trade-mark is used by the applicant? "
For the purposes of discussion, these three questions
may be resolved shortly into one: Upon the facts, is the
word "Simplex" merely the name of the Simplex Electric
Heating Company withip the 'meaning of the quoted
proviso? The answer to this question will be simplified
if we approach it by first considering certain principles of
the substantive law of trade-marks and unfair competition, in the light of which the legislation under review
must be examined.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The mere fact that one person has adopted and used a
trade-mark on his goods does not prevent the adoption
and use of the same trade-mark by others on articles of
a different description. There is no property in a trademark apart from the business or trade in connection with
which it is employed. United Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co.,
248 U. S. 90, 97; Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240
U. S. 403, 413-414. "The law of trade-marks is but a
part of the broader law of unfair competition" (idem),
the general purpose of which isto prevent one person
from passing off his goods or his business as the goods or
business of another.
Whether the name of a corporation is to be regarded as
a trade-mark, a trade name, or both, is not entirely clear
under the decisions. To some extent the two terms overlap, but there is a difference more or less definitely recognized, which is that, generally speaking, the former is
applicable to the vendible commodity to which it is affixed, the latter to a business and its good will. See Ball
v. Broadway Bazaar, 194 N. Y. 429, 434-435. A corporate name seems to fall more appropriately into the latter
class. But the precise difference is not often material,
since the law affords protection against its appropriation
in either view upon the same fundamental principles.
The effect of assuming a corporate name by a corporation under the law of its creation is to exclusively appropriate that name. It is an element of the corporation's
existence. Newby v. Oregon Cent. Ry. Co., et al., Deady
609, 616; s. c. 18 Fed. Cases 38, Case No. 10,144. And, as
Judge Deady said in that case:
"Any act which produces confusion or uncertainty concerning this name is well calculated to injuriously affect
the identity and business of a corporation. And as a
matter of fact, in some degree at least, the natural and
necessary consequence of the wrongful appropriation of a
corporate name, is to injure the business and rights of the
corporation by destroying or confusing its identity." -

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

381

Opinion of the Court.

The general doctrine is that equity not only will enjoin
the appropriation and use of a trade-mark or trade name
where it is completely identical with the name of the corporation, but will enjoin such appropriation and use
where the resemblance is so close as to be likely to produce confusion as to such identity, to the injury of the
corporation to which the name belongs. Cape May
Yacht Club v. Cape May Yacht & Country Club, 81 N. J.
Eq. 454, 458; Armington & Sims v. Palmer, 21 R. I. 109,
115. Judicial interference will depend upon the facts
proved and found in each case. Hendriks v. Montagu,
L. R. 17 Ch. Div. 638, 648; Higgins Co. v. Higgins Soap
Co., 144 N. Y. 462, 469-471.
These principles, it must be assumed, were in mind
when Congress came to enact the registration statute.
And, since that body has been given no power to legislate
upon the substantive law of trade-marks, it reasonably
may be assumed, also, that, to the extent the contrary does
not appear from the statute, the intention was to allow
the registration of such marks as that law, and the general law of unfair competition of which it is a part, recognized as legitimate. The House Committee on Patents, in
reporting the bill which upon enactment became the registration statute in question, said: "Section 5 of the proposed bill we believe will permit the registration of all
marks which could, under the common law as expounded
by the courts, be the subject of a trade-mark and become
the exclusive property of the party using the same as his
trade-mark." Report No. 3147, Dec. 19, 1904, H. of R.,
58th Cong., 3d Sess.
The provision, therefore, that no mark consisting merely
in the name of a corporation shall be registered, is to be
construed in harmony with those established principles in
respect of the appropriation of corporate names to which
we have referred. Where the appropriation of the corporate name is complete, the rule of the statute, by its own

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

terms, is absolute and the proposed mark must be denied
registration without more. But where less than the
whole name has been appropriated, the right of registration will turn upon whether it appears that such partial
appropriation is of such character and extent that, under
the facts of the particular case, it is calculated to deceive
or confuse the public to the injury of the corporation to
which the name belongs.
The fact, for example, that the articles upon which the
mark is used are not of the same description as those
put out by the corporation, is entitled to weight, since
the probability of such confusion and injury in that situation obviously is more remote than where the articles
are of like kind. The cases, naturally, present varying
degrees of difficulty for the application of the rule. Primarily, the power and the duty rests with the Commissioner of Patents to determine the question in each case
in the exercise of an instructed judgment upon a consideration of all the pertinent facts.
In the present case, these facts are: The word "Simplex" is only a portion of the corporate name; its use by
plaintiff is upon articles the like of which has never been
manufactured or sold by the defendant corporation; it
comprises the whole or a part of about sixty registrations by nearly as many different parties upon many
kinds of merchandise; and it forms part of the names of
other corporations in the country.* It is arged that the
word in question is the salient featfire in the name of the
defendant corporation. But that, if conceded, does not
Commissioner of Patents, in a footnote to Simplex Electric
Heating Co. v. The Ramey Co., Decisions, Commr. Pat., 1916, 74, 78,
*The

gives the following list of corporations, in the names of which the
word "Simplex" occurs:
Simplex Arms Mfg. Co., Denver; Simplex Window Co., San Francisco; Simplex Lubricating Co., Boston; Simplex Wire & Cable Co.,
Boston; Simplex Auto Specialty Co., Detroit; Simplex Concrete Piling Co., Cincinnati; Simplex Machine Co., Atlanta; Simplex Exer-

AMERICAN FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
372

383

Opinion of the Court.

settle the question. There may be, of course, instances
where a single word in the corporate name has become so
identified with the particular corporation that whenever
used it designates to the mind of the public that. particiilar corporation. But here it is not shown that, standing
alone, the word "Simplex" has that effect; that it is any
more calculated to denote to the public the defendant corporation than any of the other corporations in the names
of which it is likewise embodied; or, indeed, that it signifies the appropriation of some corporate name though incapable of exact identification. In Simpl'ex Electric Heating Co. v. The Ramey Co., Decisions, Commr. Pat., 1916,
pp. 74, 77, 79, 82-83, the Commissioner of Patents, admitting the same word to registry under likE facts, said:
"It is a fact that the word 'Simplex' has been in such
wide and varied use in this country not only as a trademark but as part of a firm or corporation name that
everybody has heretofore considered something more than
the word 'Simplex' necessary to .identify a corporation ....
" .. the word 'Simplex' does not identify any
corporation in particular, for the simple reason that it is
equally the name of various corporations. In short, if
one referred to ' the company Simplex,' without anything
else, it would not be known to what he was referring.
"The word involved in this case is one df a large class
of words which have for a great many years been much
used because of their peculiarly suggestive meaning. For
cising Co., Philadelphia; Simplex Valve & Meter Co., Philadelphia;
Simplex Floor Surfacing Co., Baltimore; Simplex Railway Appliance
Co., St. Louis; Simplex Air Brake & Mfg. Co., Pittsburgh; Simplex
Button Works, New York; Simplex Fire Extinguisher Co., New
York; Simplex Golf Practice Machine Corporation, New York; Simplex Ink Co., New York; Simplex Letter Opener Co., New York;
Simplex Typewriter Co., New York; Simplex Refrigerating Machine
Co., Chicago; Simplex Sand Blast Manufacturing Co., Chicago.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

other examples there are the words 'Acme,' 'Anchor,'
' Champion,' ' Eureka,' ' Excelsior,' ' Ideal,' ' Jewel,' ' Liberty,' ' National,' ' Pride,' ' Premier,' ' Queen,' ' Royal,'
It would be a
'Star,' 'Sunlight,' 'Triumph,' 'Victor.'
serious matter if the law actually permitted any one who
chose to do so to organize a series of corporations with
names containing these words, respectively, and thereupon virtually withdraw these words from public use as
trade-marks and monopolize them by preventing their
registry ap such."
On appeal to the District court of appeals, the decision
of the commissioner was reversed upon the ground, in
part, that the word "Simplex" was a distinctive part of
the name of the corporation, Simplex Electric Heating Co.
v. Ramey Co., 46 App. D. C. 400, 406; and this was followed by the same court in the present case. It already
is apparent that we agree with the commissioner and not
with the court.
Under the facts, we are of opinion that it does not
appear that the use of the word as a trade-mark upon
the goods of the plaintiff will probably confuse or deceive
the public to the injury of the defendant or of any other
corporation. It follows that the refusal to allow the
registration was erroneous.
Question No. 1, therefore, should be answered in the
negative, and, since this will dispose of the case, categorical answers to the other questions are deemed not
necessary.
It is so ordered.

