OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

The decrees of the circuit court of appeals are reversed,
except the matter of costs, as to which the decree in No.
59 is affirmed.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.
ANDERSON v. CLUNE.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. -31.

Submitted October 5, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

A soldier's additional homestead right (Rev. Stats. § 2306) is an inheritable property right, which, if not exercised or transferred by
the donee, passes to his estate as other property, subject only to
the exercise of the rights given by § 2307 to the widow and minor
orphan children. Webster v. Luther, 103 U. S. 331. P. 141.
ANSWER

to a question certified by the Circuit Court of

Appeals, on an appeal from a decree of the District Court
holding Anderson as trustee of a piece of land patented to
him, which Clune claimed under a prior entry based on
an assignment of an additional homestead right made by
heirs of a deceased soldier.
Mr. Burgess W. Marshall, for appellant.
Mr. Norman T. Mason, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1872, A. K. Johnson, an honorably discharged soldier
of the Civil War, made a homestead entry of 80 acres.
He died in 1875, leaving a widow, who died in 1917, neither
having disposed of the husband's additional homestead
right. Johnson also left four children, all over the age of
21 years at the date of the death of the widow; and they,
together with the widow of a deceased son, sold and as-

ANDERSON v. CLUNE.
140

Opinion of the Court.

signed the right to one Mason who sold and assigned it to
the extent of 20.49 acres to Clune. By virtue of the latter
assignment, Clune entered a tract of public lands in the
United States Land Office in California; but the entry was
rejected by the General Land Office on the ground that
"the assignment of the soldier's additional homestead
right had not been made by the soldier or his widow or
his heirs prior to the administrative ruling of the Department of the Interior, February 15, 1917, (46 L. D. 32) and
rulings and decisions of the Land Office, which construed
§§ 2306 and 2307 of the Revised Statutes as limiting a
soldier's additional homestead right to the exercise thereof (1) by the soldier himself entering the land, or indirectly
by conveying his right to entry to an assignee during his
lifetime (2) by the widow while her status as widow of the
soldier continued; (3) in the absence of appropriation by
the soldier or his widow, then by the minor orphan children during their minority acting through their guardian."
In October, 1923, Anderson entered the lands in controversy under an assignment of the additional soldier's
homestead right of one Dunn, and patent issued to him
therefor. Anderson's entry was made with full knowledge
that Clune had made prior entry thereof, under which he
was claiming the land. Alleging these facts, suit was
brought by Clune against Anderson to have it adjudged
that the latter held the lands in trust for the former. The
trial court overruled a motion to dismiss the bill and
rendered a decree in favor of Clune. An appeal followed
to the circuit court of appeals and that court has certified
(Judicial Code § 239) the following question upon which
instruction is desired:
"Under the Revised Statutes of the United States, sections 2306 and 2307, is a soldier's additional homestead
right limited to the exercise thereof by the soldier himself
entering the land, or indirectly by transfer of his right to
an assignee during his lifetime, and to his widow while

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

her status as widow of the soldier continues, and in the
absence of the appropriation by the soldier or his widow
during their lives, then by his minor orphan children during their minority acting through a guardian?"
By § 2304 R. S., Johnson was given the right to enter
and receive patent for 160 acres of public lands subject
to homestead entry. Having entered only 80 acres, he
became entitled to the benefits conferred by § 2306 R. S.,
which provides that every person entitled under the provisions of § 2304 to enter a homestead, who may have
entered a quantity of land less than 160 acres, "shall be
permitted to enter so much land as, when added to the
quantity previously entered, shall not exceed one hundred
and sixty acres." Section 2307 R. S. provides:
"In case of the death of any person who would be entitled to a homestead under the provisions of section
twenty-three hundred and four, his widow, if unmarried,
or in case of her death or marriage, then his minor orphan
children, by a guardian duly appointed and officially accredited at the Department of the Interior, shall be entitled to all the benefits enumerated in this chapter, subject to all the provisions as to settlement and improve"
ments therein contained;
It was held in Webster v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331, that
Congress intended by § 2306 R. S. to vest a property right
in the donee as a sort of compensation for his failure under
§ 2304 to obtain the full quota of 160 acres; that residence
on or cultivation of the lands to be taken was not required as in the case of the original homestead entry; and
that it was immaterial to the government whether the
original donee should exercise the right or should transfer
it to another. And the property right thus vested was
held to be assignable. The rulings of the Land Office prior
to this decision had been that the right was essentially
personal and non-assignable,-to be exercised only by the
original donee or his widow or his minor orphan children

ANDERSON v. CLUNE.
140

Opinion of the Court.

through a guardian. After the decision, the rulings of the
department were uniformly to the effect that the right not
only was assignable, but inheritable; that in case a soldier
entitled to the right died without exercising it, leaving no
widow or minor orphan children, the right to entry vested
in his personal representatives, Williford Jenkins, 29 L. D.
510; Fidelo C. Sharp, 35 L. D. 164, and other cases; but,
if the right passed to the minor children, it became absolute in them, in no way conditioned upon an appropriation by the guardian during their minority. John H.
Mason, 41 L. D. 361.
This view was adhered to until 1917, when the Secretary of the Interior by an administrative ruling held that
the right must be used by the soldier in his lifetime, either
by entering the land or assigning the right, or by the widow
while her status as such continued, or by the minor orphan
children during their minority, acting through their lawful guardian; and that if not exercised as thus indicated
the right lapsed and ceased to exist. The officers of the
land department were expressly instructed that no soldier's
additional right assigned by the heirs or-administrator of
the estate of a deceased soldier or of his widow, or of his
minor orphan children, or directly by such "minor children " after they had reached majority, should be recognized as a basis for the entry of public land. 46 L. D. 32.
In a subsequent letter reviewing these instructions, 46
L. D. 274, 275, the Secretary of the Interior said: "The
benefit of Section 2306, indeed, is not before its acceptance
property at all, and hence is not capable of inheritance.
It is a mere offer, which upon its acceptance by a designated beneficiary during his term of qualification as such
becomes property, and convertible into specific land by
entry under it."
This is plainly in the face of the decision of this Court
in Webster v. Luther, supra. See also, Mullen v. Wine, 26
Fed. 206; Barnes v. Poirier,64 Fed. 14, 18 The grant of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

144

Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the statute (§ 2306), ipso jure, vests a property right in
the donee which he may exercise or sell and transfer. A
property right, the ownership of which may be conveyed
to and vested in a purchaser, mifst be accorded the quality
of inheritability, which usually attaches as an incident
of ownership, in the absence of some provision of law to
the contrary; and we, therefore, hold that the soldier's
additional homestead right, if not exercised or transferred
by the doneq, passes to his estate as other property, subject only to the exercise of the rights given by § 2307 to
the widow and minor orphan children.
The question certified is answered
in the negative.

SWVILZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 38.

Argued October 13, 14, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

A. finding .by the Court of Claims that claimant's patents were not
infringed by the Government is a finding of fact and therefore not
reexaminable by this Court. P. 147.
59 Ct. Cls. 21, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims in an
action brought by the appellant to fecover compensation
for use and manufacture by the United States of certain
oil burners, alleged to infringe his patents.
APPEAL

Mr. HarryB. Stilz, pro se.
Mr. John W. Loveland, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Harry E. Knight, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.

