UNITED STATES, EX REL., v. TYLER.

13

Statement of the Case.
UNITED STATES, EX REL. KENNEDY
TYLER, SHERIFF, ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF *NEW YORK.

No. 125. Argued April 21, 22, 1925.-Decided October 12, 1925.
1. The power of a District Court to inquire by habeas corpus into
the cause of the detention of a person held in custody by the
authority of a state court in alleged violation of the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States, is to be exerted in the exercise
of a sound discretion; and the due and orderly administration
of
justice in a state court is not to be thus interfered with save in
rare cases where exceptional circumstances of peculiar urgency are
shown to exist. P. 17.
2. Lack of ability to bear the expense of proceedings for relators'
protection in the state courts or to furnish bonds required on
appeal, does not alter this rule. P. 19.
3. Persons Who were imprisoned by a New York court for contempt
in disobeying its order prohibiting further proceedings in the
Peacemakers' Court of the Cattaraugus Indian Reservation, claimed
that the land in question was outside the sovereignty of the State
and the jurisdiction of its courts, and that their arrest and detention violated their rights as Seneca Indians, under treaties with
the Seneca Nation, and their rights under the Federal Constitution.
Held, inasmuch as the state courts were proceeding under state
laws passed in response to a request of the Seneca Nation and which
apparently for the greater part of a century had not been challenged as impeding the authority of the Federal Government, that
it was peculiarly appropriate that the questions raised should be
dealt with by those courts in the first instance, subject to review
by this Court, and that a writ of habeas corpus, issued by the
District Court, should have been discharged upon that ground
rather than upon the merits.
294 Fed. 111, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the District Court, dis-

charging upon the merits a writ of habeas corpus, issuance
'of which was procured by Walter S. Kennedy, on behalf
of his son, Warren Kennedy and Sylvester J. Pierce, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

test the validity of their arrest and imprisonment for contempt of a prohibitory order of the Supreme Court of
New York. The United States and Alice Estella Spring
intervened in the District Court and joined in the appeal.
William F. Waldow, then Sheriff of Erie County, was
named defendant; upon the expiration of his term, Frank
M. Tyler, his successor, was substituted.
Mr. George P. Decker, for appellants, Kennedy and
Pierce.
Mr. Edward G. Griffin, Deputy Attorney General of
New York, with whom Mr. Albert Ottinger, Attorney
General of New York, was on the brief, for Tyler, Sheriff.
Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and Assistant
Attorney General Wells, were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Edward G. Griffin, with whom Mr. Thomas H.
Larkin and Alice Estella Spring, pro se, were on the brief,
for appellee Alice Estella Spring.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Nathaniel C. Patterson, a duly enrolled Seneca Indian
residing on the Cattaraugus Indian Reservation in the
State of New York, died testate leaving a widow (a white
woman), a daughter and three sons. The widow was
named in the will as sole executrix. The will was regularly
admitted to probate by the surrogate of Erie County, New
York, and letters of administration granted. The widow
thereupon presented her letters of administration together
with the will to the peacemakers' court of the Cattaraugus
Reservation, Where the deceased had left real property,
asking that the probate of the will be recognized or the

UNITED STATES, EX REL., v. TYLER.
13

Opinion of the Court.

will itself be admitted there to probate. The peacemakers'
court, holding that the widow and her children were not
members of the Seneca Nation and, therefore, under tribal
custom, not entitled to inherit lands in the reservation,
declined to grant either prayer, but appointed Pierce administrator. Pierce brought an action in the peacemakers'
court to eject the widow from the property and to set
aside the probate of the will by the surrogate of Erie
County. The widow appeared specially and objected to
the jurisdiction of the peacemakers' court. That court
overruled the objection and entered judgment against her
for possession of the property. Upon the application of
the widow, the supreme court of the state issued its final
order prohibiting Pierce, administrator, and the members
of the peacemakers' court from taking any further steps
in the matter. In violation of that order, Pierce caused a
mandate of the peacemakers' court to be issued and delivered to Warren Kennedy, marshal of the reservation,
under which the latter took possession of the property.
Thereupon, contempt proceedings were had before the
state supreme court, as a result of which Pierce and Kennedy were adjudged guilty of a contempt of that court in
having wilfully disobeyed its prohibition order and sentenced to pay a fine in the sum of $184.50 with imprisonment as the alternative. Upon their failure to pay the
fine, Pierce and Kennedy were ordered committed to the
Erie County jail and to that end were taken into custody
by the sheriff of Erie County. A writ of habeas corpus
was immediately sought in the federal district court for
the western district of New York upon the grounds that
Pierce and Kennedy were Seneca Indians and their detention was in violation of their rights under treaties with the
Seneca Nation; that both the Indians and the lands in
question were outside the sovereignty of the state and,
consequently, of the jurisdiction of its courts;* and that
by their arrest and detention they were denied the due

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

process of law guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. The writ was sued out
by the relator Walter S. Kennedy father of Warren.
The district court exercised its discretion in favor of
issuing the writ principally upon the ground that 'Pierce
and Warren Kennedy being Seneca Indians were wards of
the Nation and entitled to the protection of the federal
courts. But in deciding the case upon the merits, that
court pointed out that as early as 1849 the State of New
York, at the earnest request of the Indians themselves,
had assumed jurisdiction over them and their lands and
possessions within the state; that to that end state laws
had been enacted for their civil government and the regulation of their internal affairs; that the peacemakers'
courts on the several reservations were created by state
law; and that the courts of the state had uniformly held
that the power of the state in respect of these matters had
never been doubted or questioned, and such sovereignty
as the Indians may have formerly possessed had been
merged and'lost in the sovereignty of the state under
which they must look for protection of life and property.
In the absence of congressional action, the district court
concluded that these state laws and decisions, by long
acquiescence on the part of the Indians, had become rules
of property within the stat* and were controlling. The
writ was accordingly dismissed. United States v.Waldow,
294 Fed. 111.
We are asked to enter upon a review of these matters
and of the historical relations of the Indians to the
Nation and to the State of New York from a time long
anterior to the adoption of the federal Constitution. The
conclusion we have reached makes this unnecessary. It
is enough for present purposes to say that the State of
New York, as early as 1849, at the request of the Indians,
assumed governmental control of them and their property,
passed laws creating and defining the jurisdiction of the

UNITED STATES, EX REL., v. TYLER.
13

17

Opinion of the Court.

peacemakers' courts, administered these laws through its
courts, and that Congress has never undertaken to interfere with this situation or to assume control. Whether
the state judicial power extends to controversies in respect
of the succession of Indian lands within the boundaries
of the state, whether the peacemakers' court in the exercise of its jurisdiction is subject to the authority of the
state supreme court, whether the subject matter of these
controversies and proceedings was one exclusively within
the control of the national government and beyond the
authority of the state, are all questions which, under the
circumstances recited, it is peculiarly appropriate should
in the first instance be left to be dealt with by the courts
of the state. In so far as they involve treaty or constitutional rights, those courts are as competent as the federal
courts to decide them. In the regular and ordinary course
of procedure, the power of the highest state court in
respect of such questions should first be exhausted.
When that has been done, the authority of this court
may be invoked to protect a party against any adverse
decipion involving a denial of a federal right properly
asserted by him.
The rule has been firmly established by repeafed decisions of this court that the power conferred on a federal
court to issue a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the
cause of the detention of any person asserting that he is
being held in custody by the authority of a state court
in violation of the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, is not unqualified, but is to be exerted in
the exercise of a sound discretion. The due and orderly
administration of justice in a state court is not to be thus
interfered with save in rare cases wire exceptional circumstances of peculiar urgency are. shown to exist. Ex
parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241,250-253; In re Wood, 140
U. S. 278, 289; In re Fredorich, 149 U. S. 70, 77-78; New

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89, 98; Whitten v. Tomlinson,
160 U. S. 231, 240-242; Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284,
290; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101, 104-105; Davis
v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399, 401-403; Riggins v. United States,
199 U. S. 547, 549; Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1, 6; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, 428; Johnson v. Hoy, 227
U. S. 245, 247.
In New York v. Eno, supra, a federal circuit court had
discharged a prisoner held by virtue of the judgment of
a state court on the ground that the offenses for which
he was iudicted were exclusively cognizable under the
authority of the United States. This court reversed the
judgment, holding that the state court of original jurisdiction was competent to decide the questions in the first
instance and that "its obligation to render such decision
as will give full effect to the supreme law of the land and
protect any right secured by it to the accused is the same
that rests upon the courts of the United States. When
the claim of the accused of immunity from prosecution in
a state court for the offences charged against him has been
passed upon by the highest court of New York in which
it can be determined, he may then, if the final judgment
of that court be adverse to him, invoke the jurisdiction of
this court for his protection in respect of any federal right
distinctly asserted by him, but which may be denied by
such judgment."'
This general rule is emphasized by a consideration of
the few cases where this court has upheld the allowance
of the writ. They were all cases of exceptional urgency.
Such, for example, were In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1, where
a deputy marshal of the United States was discharged on
habeas corpus from state custody on a charge of homicide
committed in the performance of his duty to guard and
protect a justice of this court; In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372,
where petitioner, charged with perjury in testimony given
in a contested congressional election case, was discharged

UNITED STATES, EX REL., v. TYLER.
13

19

Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that to permit him to be prosecuted in
the state courts would greatly impede and embarrass the
administration of justice in a national tribunal; and
Wildenhus's case, 120 U. S. 1, where a member of the crew
of a foreign merchant vessel was discharged from the
custody of the state because the arrest was contrary to
the provisions of an international treaty. Thus, it will
be seen, two of these cases involved interferences by the
state authorities with the operations of departments of the
general government, and the other concerned the delicate
relations of that government with a foreign nation.
It is hardly necessary to say that this case presents no
such exceptional and imperative circumstances. The
state courts proceeded under laws passed in response to
the request of the Indian Nation of which contemners are
members,-laws which apparently for the greater part of
a century had not been seriously challenged as impeding
the authority of the federal government. Under these
conditions, contemners, deliberately having taken the risk
of setting at defiance the judgment of the state court,
must look for redress, if they are entitled to any, to the
appropriate and authorized appellate remedies. They are
not entitled to relief in a federal court by the writ of
habeas corpus.
Something is said in the opinion of the court below to
the effect that the relators pleaded lack of ability to bear
the expense of proceedings for their protection in the state
courts or to furnish bonds required on appeal. We are
unable to find anything in the record to support this
claim, but even if it Were true it would afford no basis for
a different conclusion. Maikuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S.
184, 185, 187.
The court below should have discharged the writ upon
the foregoing grounds rather than upon the merits, but
the result being the same, the judgment is
-Affirmed.

