250

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Counsel for Parties.

269 U. S.

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE ,INTERIOR, v.
LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF, APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 5. Argued October 6, 1925.-Decided November 23, 1925.
1. A suit by a State to restrain the Secretary of the Interior from
rejecting the State's claim under the Swamp Land Acts upon an
unauthorized ruling of law illegally requiring the State, as a condition precedent, to show that the lands are not mineral in character,
is not objectionable as being premature and as invading the Secretary's function to adjudicate the title. P. 254.
2. In such a suit, the United States, and homestead entrymen claiming the lands, are not indispensable parties defendant. Id.
3. The grants of the Swamp Land Acts of 1849 and 1850, were in
praesenti,and gave the grantee States an inchoate title that became
perfect, as of the dates of the Acts, when the granted lands had
been identified as required and the legal title had passed by
approval of the Secretary under the Act of 1849 or the issuing of
a patent under the Act of 1850. P. 255.
4. Neither of these acts contains any exception or reservation of
mineral lands and none Is to be implied, ,since at the time of their
enactment the public policy of withholding mineral lands for disposition only under laws specially including them, was not established. Id.
5. The Secretary of the Interior can not be required by injunction to
recognize a State's title under the Swamp Land Acts when he has
not as yet determined whether the lands claimed were "swamp
or overflowed." P. 260.
53 App. D. C. 22, 287 Fed. 999, modified and affirmed.
.APPEAL

from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the

District of Columbia affirming an injunction awarded by

the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against the
Secretary of the Interior.
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney

General, with whom Solicitor General Beck and Assistant
Attorney General Wells were on the brief, for appellant.

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. S. L. Herold, with whom Messrs. Percy Saint,
Attorney General of Louisiana, and F. W. Clements were
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in equity brought by the State of Louisiaria against the Secretary of the Interior in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, seeking a restraining
order and mandatory injunction relating to its prosecution
of a swamp land claim under the Acts of March 2, 1849,
c. 87, 9 Stat. 352, and September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat.
519. A motion by the Secretary to dismiss the bill was overruled; and upon his election to plead no further, a decree
was entered awarding an injunction. This was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of the District. Fall v. Louisiana,
287 Fed. 999.' This appeal was allowed in April, 1923.
By the Act of 1849, there was "granted" to the State
of Louisiana, to aid it in the reclamation of the swamp
and overflowed lands therein, "the whole of those swamp
and overflowed lands,2 which may be or are found unfit
for cultivation "; and it was provided that, upon the request of the Governor, the Secretary of the Treasury
[afterwards the Secretary of the Interiore ] should cause
an examination of all such lands to be made by deputies
of the surveyor-general; "a list of the same to be made
out, and certified by the deputies and surveyor-general to
the Secretary . . . , who shall approve the same, so far
as they are not claimed or held by individuals; and on that
approval, the fee simple to said lands shall vest in the
said State."

I In the Court of Appeals the present appellant was substituted for
his predecessor against whom the suit had been brought.
2Except those fronting on rivers, etc., previously surveyed under
an Act of 1824.
Act of March 3, 1849, c. 108, 9 Stat. 395, creating the Department of the Interior.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

By the Act of 1850 there was " granted" to the State of
Arkansas, for a like ptirpose, "the whole of those swamp
and Overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation,"
which then remained unsold; and it was provided that the
Secretary of the Interior should make out and transmit
to the Governor accurate lists and plats of such lands
"and at the request of said governor, cause a patent to
be issued to the State therefor; and on that patent the
fee simple to said lands shall vest in the said State." It
was further provided that "the provisions of this Act be
extended to, and their benefits conferred upon, each of
the other States of the Union in which such swamp and
overflowed lands . . . may be situated." The general
provisions of this Act were carried into ยง 2479, et seq., of
the Revised Statutes.
We assume, without deciding, that, in accordance with
the practice of the Land Department, the claims of
Louisiana to the swamp and overflowed lands may be
allowed Under either the special Act of 1849 or the general
Act of 1850. See Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70, 76;
Cross Lake Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632, 635.
The material facts shown by the bill and exhibits are:
The lands in question, with others, were surveyed in
1871 by a deputy surveyor. They were identified and
returned as swamp and overflowed lands by his plat of
survey, which was filed and approved by the Surveyor
General. At that time they were not known to contain
minerals of any character. In 1901 the register of the
state land office requested that they be listed and approved to the State as swamp lands. Various homestead
entries were thereafter made in the local Land Office;
some, if not all, of which were allowed, subject to the
swamp land clain- of the State. In 1910 they were included-in a Petroleum Withdrawal made by a Presidential
order under the Pickett Act.' Finally, in 1919, after
Act of June 25, 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847.

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

various intermediate proceedings, the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, in an administrative decision,
"found from the field notes of the survey of 1871 that the
lands . . . are swamp or overflowed, and, if nonmineral
in character,inure to the State under its grant, and may
be patented pursuant thereto when the record has been
cleared of adverse claims." And he thereupon ruled that
unless the State should, within a specified time, apply
for a hearing-in which the homestead entrymen might
parti cipate--qnd show that the lands were non-oil and
non-gas in character, its claim would be rejected and the
lands held for disposition under the public land laws. On
an appeal by the State, the Secretary affirmed this decision; and he later denied a motion by the State for a rehearing, the grounds of his decision being that mineral
lands did niot inure to the State under the swamp land
grants; that the mineral character of land claimed as
swamp and overflowed was open to investigation until the
inchoate title of the State had been perfected by the Secretary's approval under the Act of 1849 or the issue of a
patent under the Act of 1850; that these lands had been
impressed with a prima facie mineral character by the
petroleum withdrawal; and that the State had been accorded due opportunity to show that they were not mirieral bearing, failing in which its claim must stand rejected. 48 Land Dec. 201, 203.
The bill, which was then filed, alleged that the Secretary
had exceeded his authority and jurisdiction in making the
unlawful requirement imposing upon the State the burden
of showing that the lands had no minerals and denying
its right to them because it had not undertaken to dis.
charge the burden thus illegally put upon it; and prayed
that he be enjoined from taking further action in enforcement of this ruling and be required to vacate and set it
aside.
1. It is urged that the trial court was without jurisdiction to entertain the bill, upon the grounds that it was

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

prematurely brought, before the Secretary had exercised
his jurisdiction to determine the.character of the lands and
while the claim was still in the process of administration;
and that both the U-iited States and the homestead entrymen were necessary and indispensable parties. These objections are based upon a misconception of the purpose'of
the suit. It is not one to establish the title of the State,
as in Louisiana v. Garfield, supra, and Ne?.i Mexico v.
Lane, 243 U. S.52, nor one to quiet its title, as in Minnesota v. Lane, 247 U. S.243. The bill does not seek an
adjudication that the lands were swamp and overflowed
lands or to restrain the Secretary from hearing and determining this question, but merely seeks an adjudication of
the right of the State to have this question determined
without reference to their mineral character, and to require the Secretary to set aside the order requiring it to
establish their non-mineral charaAber or suffer the rejection of its claim. In short, it is merely a suit to restrain
the Secretary from rejecting its claim, independently of
the merits otherwise, upon an unauthorized ruling of law
illegally requiring it, as a condition precedent, to show
that the lands are not mineral in character.
It is clear that if this order exceeds the authority conferred upon the Secretary by law and is an illegal act done
under color of his office, he may be enjoined from carrying
it into effect. Noble v. Union River Railroad, 147 U. S.
165, 171, 172; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, 261,
262; Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S.525, 540; Payne v. Central
Piacific Railway, 255 U. S. 228, 238; Santa Fe Pacific
Railroadv. Fall, 259 U. S.197, 199; Colorado v. Toll, 268
U. S.228, 230. A suit for such purposes is not one against
the United States, even though it still retains the legal
title to the lands, and it is not an indispensable party.
Garfield v. Goldsby, supra, pp. 260, 262; Lane v. Watts,
supra, p. 540. Neither are the homestead entrymen indispensable parties. Lane v. Watts, supra, pp. 537, 540.

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

In this latter respect the cases of Litchfield v. Register,
9 Wall. 575, in which it was sought to enjoin the Department from acting upon pending applications to prove
presmption rights to the land, New Mexico v. Lane, supra,
in which it was sought to set aside an entry made by one
who had purchased and paid for the land and to enjoin
the issuing of a patent to him, and Brady v. Work, 263
U. S. 435, in which it was sought to enjoin the issuing of
a patent to a person to whom the Department had adjudged the right to the land, are clearly distinguishable.
2. This brings us, on the merits, to the consideration of
the question whether the order exceeded the authority
conferred upon the Secretary, and attached to the prosecution of the claim of the State, without warrant of law, the
condition that it must show that the lands are not mineral
in character.
The grants of swamp lands made by the Acts of 1849
and 1850 were in praesentiand gave the States an inchoate
title to such lands that became perfect, as of the dates of
the Acts, when they had been identified as required and
the legal title had passed by the approval of the Secretary under the Act of 1849 or the issuing of a patent under
the Act of 1850. This has long been the settled construction of the Act of 1850. Rogers Locomotive Works v.
Emigrant Co., 164 U. S. 559, 570; Little v. Williams, 231
U. S. 335, 339.
Each of these Acts made a broad and unrestricted
grant of the swamp lands. Neither contained any exception or reservation of mineral lands.
It is urged that such a reservation should be read into
the drants by reason of a settled policy of the United
States of withholding mineral lands from disposal save
under laws specially including them. There was, however, no such settled policy in 1849 and 1850 when the
swamp land grants were made. Prior to that time, it is

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

true, it had been the policy in providing for the sale of
the public lands, to reserve lands containing "lead mines"
and "salt springs." United States v. Gratiot, 14 Pet.
526, 538; United States v. Gear, 3 How. 120, 131; and
Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, 668. Such mines and
springs appeared upon the surface of the land, and were
peculiarly essential to the public needs of the early communities. But there was, at that time, no established
public policy of reserving mineral lands generally. This
is emphasized by the fact that the general Act of 1841,'
which gave preemption rights to settlers on the public
lands, merely excepted lands "on which are situated any
known salines or mines." And while the Act of September 27, 1850,6 providing for the disposal of public lands in
the Territory of Oregon to settlers, expressly excepted
"mineral lands," it is manifest that this one local Act,
approved the day before the swamp land Act of 1850, was
insufficient to establish a settled public policy in reference
to the reservation of mineral lands prior to the latter Act.
And the fact that immediately after the subject of mineral
lands had been thus brought to the attention of Congress,
it did not except mineral lands trom the grant of swamp
lands to the several States, indicates that no reservation
of such lands was intended.
It is cleir that, as there was no settled public policy in
reference to the reservation of mineral lands prior to the
acts of 1849 and 1850, there is no substantial ground for
reading such a reservation into the broad and unrestricted
grants of swamp and overflowed lands made to the States,
in praesenti, by these Acts, especially since such lands
were not then generally known to contain valuableminerals, and when unfit for cultivation were commonly regarded as having value only after reclamation-the
purpose for which both of these grants were made-the
Act of September 4, 1841, c. 16, 5 Stat. 453,

69 $tat. 4961 c. 70,

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

discovery of their oil and gas having been made at a much
later date.
This conclusion, even apart from the peculiar character
of swamp and overflowed lands, is fortified by the decision in Cooperv. Roberts, 18 How. 173, 179, 180, in which
it was held that a provision in the Michigan Enabling
Act of 1836,1 that certain sections of the public land
should be granted to the State for the use of schools, became a legal title to such sections when they were surveyed and marked out; and that, no statute prior to the
Enabling Act having contained any reservation of mineral lands other than those containing salt springs or lead
mines, the later Act of 1847 ' providing for the sale of the
mineral lands in the State should be construed as not
withdrawing such lands within the school sections from
the compact with the State,
The same conclusion was also reached in an unreported
opinion given by the Acting Attorney General (the then
Solicitor General) to the Secretary of the Interior in September, 1916, in which, citing Cooper v. Roberts in support of his views, he said: "There was no exception of
mineral land from the swamp land grant made to the
State of Louisiana and prior to that time . . . the only
reservation of minerals made by the Federal Government
in any of its legislation affecting the public lands related
to lands containing salt springs, lead mines and contiguous tracts. The policy of reserving minerals generally
was not established until after the swamp land grant was
made to Louisiana."
This conclusion is not in conflict with the later decisions relating to school lands in Mining Co. v. Consolidated Mining Co., 102 U. S. 167-followed in Mullah v.
United States, 118 U. S. 271- and United States v. Sweet,
245 U. S. 563. In the Mining Co. Case, in which it was
Act of June 23, 1836, c. 121, 5 Stat. 59.
"Act of March 1, 1847, c. 32, 9 Stat. 146.

7

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the tourt.

269 U. S

held that a provision in the Act of 1853 1 for the sale Of
public lands in California, granting certain sections to the
State for school purposes, was not intended to cover
mineral lands, the decision was not based upon the
ground that there was at that time any settled and
general policy of, reserving mineral lands, but, on the
contrary, on the ground that the discovery in 1849
that California was rich in precious metals, bringing its mineral lands to the attention of Congress, had led
to the adoption in reference to that State of a local policy,
plainly manifested in other provisions of the Act making
specific exceptions of mineral lands, by which, unlike the
ordinary laws for disposing of public lands in agricultural
States, the mineral lands in that State were uniformly
reserved from sale, preemption and grants for public purposes (pp. 172-175). In the Sweet Case it was held that
the provision of the Utah Enabling Act of 1894,10 granting
to the State certain sections of the public lands for the
support of common schools, with no mention of mineral
lands, was not intended to embrace land known to be
valuable for coal. The grounds of this decision were that
long prior to the Act there had been established a settled
policy in respect of mineral lands, evidenced by the mining
laws and other statutes, by which they were withheld from
disposal save under laws especially including them; and
that read in the light of such laws and settled public
policy the Act did not disclose a purpose to include such
lands in the school grant, since, although couched in general terms adequate to embrace them if there were no
statute or settled policy to the contrary, it contained no
language explicitly withdrawing the school sections, where
known to be mineral in character, from the operation of
the mining laws, or certainly showing that Congress intended to depart from its long prevailing policy of dispos9 Act of March 3, 1853, c. 145, 10 Stat. 244.
'10 Act of July 16, 1894, c. 138, 28 Stat. 107.

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

ing of mineral lands only under laws specially including
them: this conclusion being fortified by the further considerations, that, when the grant was made, Utah was
known to be rich in minerals and salines; that, while some
of the other grants contained in the Act expressly included
saline lands, none included mineral lands; that the Committees of Congress, upon whose recommendation the Act
was passed, construed it as not embracing mineral lands;
that the Land Department had uniformly placed the same
construction upon it; and that Congress had, by a later act
of 1902, acted upon that construction (pp. 567, 572, 573).
Obviously, this decision does not apply to the construction
of the swamp land grants made at a time when there was
no settled policy as to the reservation of mineral lands,
and where the other circumstances upon which the decision was based are lacking.
There is here no such uniform and long settled departmental construction of the swamp land Acts. It is not
claimed that the Land Department construed them as
excluding mineral lands or considered the question of the
mineral character of swamp lands until quite recently.
As late as October 1, 1903, the Secretary instructed the
Comnissioner that all pending selections under the swamp
land grants to the State of Louisiana would be approved
or patented to the State under the grants of 1849 or 1850,
in all cases where the lands were shown by the field notes
of survey or by affidavits filed at the time of selection, to
have been swamp lands at the date of the grant. 32 Land
Dec. 270, 276, 278. The first holding by the Department
that mineral lands did not pass under the swamp land
grants appears to have been made in 1917, more than sixty
years after the passage of the Acts, in an unreported ruling." This was followed by like departmental decisions
in 1918, 46 Land Dec. 92, and 46 Land Dec. 389,-396--in
"Cited

in 46 Land Dec. 389, 396.

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

which the contrary view expressed by the Attorney General was put aside as being obiter--and in 1920, 47 Land
Dec. 366, shortly before the decision involved in the
present case. We cannot regard these recent decisions of
the Department-apparently depArting from its previous
well established practice, and rendered, except in one instance, in connection with the long delayed adjustment of
the claims of Louisiana-as establishing a settled and uniform course of departmental construction that is persuasive as an aid in the construction of the Acts.
We conclude that the swamp land Acts granted to the
States the swamp and overflowed lands, rendered unfit for
cultivation, without reference to their mineral 'character;
and that in requiring the State to establish the non-mineral character of the lands in question the Secretary exceeded the authority conferred upon him by the Acts and
attached this condition to the prosecution of the claim of
the State without warrant of law.
3. A question remains as to the effect of the decree
awarding the injunction. This, after commanding the
Secretary to vacate the ruling operating to withhold title
from the State for any reason dependent upon the mineral
character of the lands or to require that their non-mineral
character be shown, contained the following supplemental
clause: "and further restraining him, and them 2 from
making any disposition of said described lands or from
taking any action affecting the same save such immediate
steps as are necessary to the further and final recognition
of plaintiff's rights under the acts of March 2, 1849 (9
Stat. 352) and September 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), to the
end that evidence of title may be given to plaintiff as by
said acts provided and-required." If, as urged, the effect
of this supplemental clause is to divest the United States
of title to. the lands and leave the Secretary to do nothing
12

His successors and agents.

WORK v. LOUISIANA.
250

Opinion of the Court.

but furnish the State evidence of title in final recognition
of its asserted rights, the decree in this respect is plainly
erroneous, aside from any question as to the scope of the
bill or the necessary presence of the United States as a
party. The State has not as yet finally established its
right to the lands, and the administrative processes necessary thereto are not complete. The Secretary, it appears,
has not as yet determined that they were swamp and overflowed lands. The finding of the Commissioner that they
were "swamp or overflowed " was not brought in question
before the Secretary, and his decision involved no approval
of such findig, but related merely to the ruling of the
Commissioner requiring the State, independently of this
finding, to establish the non-mineral character of the lands.
The Secretary, in the exercise of the administrative duty
imposed upon him, is necessarily required, before furnishing evidence of title under either of the Acts, to determine
whether the lands claimed were in fact swamp lands; and
he may not be restrained from investigating and determining this in any appropriate manner.
The decree is inartificially framed. We think that the
supplemental clause which we have quoted, in effect
requires the Secretary to recognize that the State has
already established its right to the lands and to do nothing
further in reference to them except to furnish it evidence
of title in final recognition of such established right, and
restrains him from investigating and determining, without
reference to the mineral character of the lands, whether
they were in fact swamp and overflowed lands, before
giving final recognition to such right as the State may
establish under either of the Acts and issuing to it any
evidence of title. The decree is accordingly modified by
striking out this supplemental clause. Thus modifieA it
should stand.
Decree modified and affirmed.

