422

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
269 U. S.

Syllabus.

Appeals, and we are entirely satisfied with the conclusions
which it reached in reference to them.
The judgments of the District Court and Circuit Court
of Appeals a re reversed, and the cause is remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in accordance with
this opinion.
Judgments,reversed.
UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON

ET AL.

UNITED STATES v. YALE & TOWNE MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 337, 420.

Argued November 20, 1925.-Decided January 4,1926.

1. The Revenue Act of 1916 imposed a tax on net income and profits
ascertained by deducting from gross income, expenses paid, losses
sustained, interest and taxes paid during the calendar year, but
provided, § 13(d), that "a corporation . . . keeping accounts
upon any basis other than that of actual receipts and disbursements,
unless such other basis does not clearly reflect its income, may,
subject to regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, make its
return upon the basis upon which its accounts are kept, in which
case the tax shall be computed upon its income as returned."
Held, that where the taxpayer's books, reflecting its income, were
kept upon an "accrual" basis, i. e., by charging against income
earned during the taxable period (1916) the expenses incurred in
and attributable to the process of earning income during that
period, and made its return upon that basis and not the basis of
actual receipts and disbursements, it was permitted under the
statute, as correctly construed by a Treasury regulation, to include
in its deductions the amount of a " reserve" entered on its books
for taxes imposed by the United States on the profits of munitions
made and sold by the taxpayer during that year, although the tax
bad not "accrued" in the sense of having been assessed and become due; and that it was not permissible, as the taxpayer
attempted, to defer deduction of the tax until the income return
for the following year, during which the tax became due and was
paid. Pp. 438, 441.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

423

Argument for the United States.

2. Findings considered and held to show that the books of a tax
payer were kept on the basis of accruals and reserves to meet
liabilities incurred. P. 442.
3. In a suit to recover a tax erroneously exacted, the burden is on
the plaintiff to prove the facts establishing invalidity of the tax.
P. 443.
60 Ct. Cls. 100; Id. 440, reversed.

APPEALS from judgments of the Court of Claims in two
suits brought by the Trustees in dissolution of the BurtonRichards Company, a corporation and by the Yale &
Towne Manufacturing Company, to recover income taxes
alleged to haye been erroneously exacted under the
Revenue Act of 1916.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. John B.
Milliken*, Special Attorney in the Bureau of Internal
Revenue, was on the brief, for the United States.
Under the Revenue Act of 1916 a taxpayer was permitted to make his income-tax return on an accrual basis
if his books were kept on that basis. Corporation Excise
Tax Law of 1909 plainly required the computation of net
income on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements.
There was no provision for accrual systems of accounting
or for including items of expense incurred but not due
and paid. The first corporation income tax Act of October ', 1913, like the 1909 Act, provided for the calculation
of net taxable income on the receipts and disbursements
basis. Under these t o Acts some departures from the
strict receipts and disbursements basis were permitted by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, such as the use
of inventories. This legislation shows that the subject
was undeveloped and the resulting system was a mongrel
one, but, in the main, the returns were required to be
made on a receipts and disbursements basis. Lumber
Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Malley, 256 Fed. 380; Maryland
Casualty Co. v. United States, 52 Ct. Cls. 201; same case,
251 U. S. 342. The first decided shift occurred in the

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

269 U. S.

Revenue Act of 1916, evidenced by the insertion of a new
provision, § 13 (d). This allowed the taxpayer the option
to make his return on a cash basis without regard to how
he kept his books, or if he kept his books on some other
basis to make his return upon the basis upon which his
accounts were kept. Montgomery's Income Tax Procedure, 1918, pp. 67-68. In connection with the accrual
basis offered as an alternative by the 1916 Act, the Treasury Department, in T. D. 2433, issued January 8, 1917,
approved of the practice of setting up and maintaining
reserves to meet liabilities accrued but not yet due and
including those the amount of which may not have been
definitely determined. The next shift was made in the
Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, which
limited the taxpayer to making his return on the basis on
which his books were kept provided the basis tended to
correctly show net income. Under § 12 (a) of the Act of
1916, it is clear that if the taxpayer used the accrual basis
in keeping his accounts and made his return on that
basis he could not be permitted to depart from the accrual
basis in dealing with any item of expense.
Under the accrual system an expense accrues when all
the events have occurred from which liability is determined and the liability has become fixed, even though.
payment is not yet due. The munitions tax for 1916
accrued in 1916, and the taxpayer made no mistake in
entering the item on its books for that year as an accrued
expense. Under the accrual system of accounting, income is said to be accrued when it is definitely receivable,
although its payment may not be due, and liabilities or
expenses are said to be accrued when the events have
occurred from which liability is determined and the liability has become fixed, even though payment is not yet
due. The basic idea under the accrual system of accounting is that the books shall immediately reflect obligations
and expense definitely incurred and income definitely

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Argument for the United States.

earned without regard to whether payment has been
made or whether payment is due. Under this system,
the use of the word "accrued" does not signify that the
item is due. On the contrary, the accrual system wholly
disregards due dates. Neither is it necessary that the
amount of an incurred liability be accurately ascertainable in order to "accrue" it. Montgomery, Auditing
Theory and Practice, 3rd Ed. Vol. 1, pp. 239, 240;
Esquerre, Applied Theory of Accounts, pp. 299-301;
Holmes, Federal Income Tax, 1917, pp. 299-301.
The munitions tax for 1916 is based on the amount of
munitions profits for that year; it was an actual expense
or element of cost in the production of the income for that
year; the law imposing the tax was in force during that
year; definite liability to pay the tax had arisen by the
end of the year; every fact or circumstance affecting the
amount of the tax had occurred by the end of the year,
and no fact or event occurring after the end of the year
was a factor in the computation or determination of the
tax. By the close of the year, liability for the tax had
become definitely fixed, the tax being based on the result
of operations for 1916, which were closed December 31,
1916. Neither liability for the tax nor the amount properly payable could be affected under the law by anything
occurring after December 31, 1916. It is true the monthly
estimates of the amount of the tax appearing in the
monthly trial balances during the year 1916 were tentative and might vary up or down from month to month,
and required final correction in closing the books for the
year, but if the accounts of the corporation were correctly kept and its profits computed in the manner required by law, the amount of the munitions tax was
definitely ascertainable at the end of the year. In this
case the taxpayer knew the amount of the munitions tax
at the close of the year when it entered the reserve on its
books as well as it did when the return was made and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

269 U. S.

tax paid. The fact that a difference of opinion might arise
after December 31, 1916, between the taxpayer and the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to what was a
reasonable depreciation on plant and equipment, or as to
other items of that nature, did not provide new factors
occurring after December 31, 1916, varying the tax. The
accrual by the taxpayer of this tax on its books for 1916
was not only proper and in accordance with good accounting practice but was expressly approved by T. D. 2433.
Cases of United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632, and
Ed. Schuster & Co., Inc., v. Williams, 283 Fed. 115,
distinguished.
The only respect in which case No. 337 differs from
No. 420, is because of a dispute as to whether the taxpayer's books were kept and its income-tax return made
on a cash basis or an accrual basis. The Findings show
that the books were kept and the return made on the
accrual basis. In this, a suit to recover taxes paid, the
burden is on the taxpayer to show that the tax was
illegally assessed and to overcome the prima facie validity
of the assessment, and unless the Findings of the Court
of Claims affirmatively show that the books were kept and
the income-tax return made on a cash basis they do not
sustain the judgment.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Frank S. Bright
and Montgomery B. Angell were on the brief, for appellees, in No. 337.
Under the Revenue Act of 1916, taxes may properly be
taken as a deduction from income only in the year when
paid, regardless of the character of the return made. In
keeping its books for the year 1916, the Burton-Richards
Company took up on its books all items of gross income
and general business expenses as and when such items
became fixed and ascertainable in the form of accounts
receivable and accounts payable regardless of whether the

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

amounts shown were actually received or paid in cash.
Interest was entered on its books during 1916 only as and
when actually received or paid within the year. The
Company's interest on its indebtedness was all paid in
1916, and so appeared on its books. No losses nor bad
debts appeared in 1916, nor were any set up on its books
during that year. The Company set up on its books
month by month an arbitrary "reserve for taxes" of
$35,000, as set forth in the Findings of Fact. It did not
pretend in so doing to be "accruing" the amount for
income tax or other purposes. The service of such an
entry was solely to reflect in conjunction with other
entries the general financial condition of the Company as
a going concern and to guide it in the declaration of
dividends or the making of other disbursements. In the
original and amended income tax returns of the BurtonRichards Company for 1916 and 1917 there was included
as gross income all items arising from sales made within
the year whether paid or payable in cash, while the company took as deductions: (a) General expense, whether
paid in 1916 or not; (b) Depreciation charged off; (c)
Interest paid; and (d) Taxes, domestic, paid.
In the earlier Income Tax Acts Congress did not make
what is commonly known as "commercial net income"
the basis for the tax levy. That which is subject to tax
under these several Acts is "net income," and in every
case "net income" is ascertained by deducting from
gross income certain arbitrary deductions. Obviously, a
literal interpretation of the 1909 Excise Tax Act demanded a strict and thorough-going cash basis for making
return and paying tax. Yet, from the first, the Treasury
Department not only permitted but required a departure
from a strict cash basis. See Regulations 31, under the
1909 Act, Arts. 4, 5; Id. 77, T. D. 1742. With these
formal regulations issued by the Treasury Department
before it, Congress, in passing the 1913 Revenue Act, em-

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

269 U. S.

ployed substantially the same phraseology as to gross
income, business expenses, losses, interest, and taxes as it
had employed in the 1909 Act. Under this, also, the
Treasury necessarily permitted departures from the strict
cash basis, Regulation 33, Jan. 5, 1914, Arts. 104, 158. But
when it came to taxes, the Treasury invnriably permitted
them to be taken as deductions only in the year when
"actually paid." Id. Art. 156.
The 1916 Act employed the same phraseology as the
earlier Acts had used in defining net income subject to
tax. The Treasury Department in its regulations un'der
the 1916 Act, namely Regulations 33 (Revised), as in the
prior regulations under the 1909 and 1913 Acts, defined
gross income as "the total sales . . . during the year"
(Article 91), required that inventories "must be taken
where the business consists of buying and selling commercial commodities" (Article 120), and in Article 126, in
defining the word " paid" it was flatly stated: ' Ifthe
amount involved represents an actual expense or element
of cost in the production of the income of the year, it will
be properly deductible even though not actually disbursed
in.cash, provided it is so entered on the books of the
company as to constitute a liability against its assets."
But again, so far as taxes were concerned, Regulations 33
(Revised), in Article 191 thereof, permitted as a deduction
for taxes only such taxes as were "paid within the year."
It is evident from the foregoing that the so-called cash
or receipts and disbursements basis used under the 1909
and 1913 Acts and recognized at least for a time under
the 1916 Act, was not and never had been a literal cash
basis. It was in reality a mongrel basis which had taken
shape on account of the very necessities of the case and
which after adoption had received Congressional sanction
by the subsequent re-enactment of similar provisions of
law. This statutory cash basis was consistently recognized and employed by the Treasury Department in

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

administering the several income tax acts until the issuance in January, 1921, of the opinion of the Solicitor of
Internal Revenue known as L. 0. 1059 (see Cumulative
Bulletin 4, p. 147), the opinion upon which the Commissioner acted in disallowing the deduction for taxes and
which gave rise to the instant case, an opinion which constituted an entire reversal of the Treasury's prior practice
in treating the deduction for taxes.
Under the 1916 Act only taxes actually paid within the
year were deductible in determining taxable net income,
whether the tax returns were made on the so-called cash
basis under §§ 10 and 12(a), or under the alternative
basis contemplated in § 13(d). By the express provisions
of the 1916 Act, that which is subject to tax is "net
,income," and "net income' must be determined by deducting from "the gross amount of its income received
within the year" certain arbitrary deductions. One of
these deductions, among others, is "taxes paid within the
year imposed by the authority of the United States or its
territories." All indications are that Congress intended
to limit the deduction for taxes in any particular year to
an amount not exceeding that actually paid within the
year. Congress again employed the word "paid," and
"paid" alone, in describing the allowable deductions for
taxes. The re-enactment by Congress of provisions similar to those employed in an earlier Act which had received
a certain construction by the Executive Department
charged with the administration of the Act " amounts to
An implied recognition and approval of the executive construction of a statute." National Lead Co. v. United
States, 252 U. S. 140.
Whatever may be the effect of the appearance of
§ 13(d) in the 1916 Act, there is no warrant in law for
imputing to Congress an intent to permit or require the
deduction of taxes in any taxable period -other than that
in which such taxes were actually paid. That Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

269 U. S.

was familiar with the word "accrued" is evidenced by
the phraseology used in the Munitions Tax law, which
was Title III of the Revenue Act of 1916, § 302. Had
Congress intended the word "paid" in § 12(a) of the
1916 Act to mean "paid or accrued," it would have said
so. In the relative provision of the 1918 Act, namely,
§ 234(a) (3), Congress did say so, for that Act permitted
the deduction of taxes "paid or accrued within the taxable year." To permit or require under the 1916 Act the
deduction of taxes when accrued rather than when paid
would be to impute to Congress an intent in enacting the
1916 Act to which it first gave expression in the 1918 Act.
This is not to be done. Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529;
Brilliant Coal Co. v. United States, 59 Ct. Cls. 481. The
proposition that § 13(d) sets up a separate and distinct
method of reaching taxable income is a strain upon its
language, quite aside from the fact that its very position in the Act as a minor section can hardly justify giving
it such dignity. Obviously Congress did not contemplate
that a taxpayer, regardless of the limitations imposed in
§ 12(a) upon the extent of the deductions for interest
and taxes authorized, might, nevertheless, take as a deduction an amount of interest or taxes merely by the
simple device of setting up on its books a reserve for interest or taxes. Such a construction would put it in the
power of the taxpayer to take as a deduction from net
income an amount of taxes or interest which Congress
said specifically in § 12(a) could not be so taken. It is
arguable that § 13(d) to a limited extent contemplated
the so-called "accrual" system of accounting and that
Congress by inserting that section in the 1916 Act intended to give express recognition and legislative sanction
to the practice which had grown up under the earlier Acts
by administrative regulation of permitting and even requiring the use of accounts receivable in determining
gross income, and accounts payable in reaching deduc-

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

tible business expenses. In fact, it may be that the insertion of § 13(d) in the 1916 Act foreshadowed the decision of this Court in Doyle v. Mitchell Bros. Co., 247
U. S.179, in the sense that it was an express recognition
by Congress of the necessity of subtracting from gross
income the cost of earnitig gross income in reaching that
"income " which alone is taxable under the Constitution.
But it is hardly conceivable that § 13(d) authorized deductions for such items as taxes and interest without regard to the specific limitations placed on such deductions
in § 12(a). It is true that the right to employ § 13(d) is
made subject to regulations issued by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue with the approval of the Secretary of
the Treasury, but an interpretation of § 13(d) which
would permit, under appropriate regulation, deductions
for interest and taxes other than those specified in I 12(a)
would vest in the Executive branch of the Government a
discretion clearly not intended, and one which would
perhaps amount to an unconstitutional delegation of
authority. The fact is that § 13(d) was not a recognition of the so-called accrual system of accounting as the
Treasury would have us believe, but contemplated a great
variety of methods of accounting. The words "accrue"
or "accrual" are nowhere used in the law. It is respectfully submitted that § 13(d) represented the first step by
Congress, though a cautious one, toward a recognition of
the principle that there are a number of corporations,
which, on account of the nature of the business in which
they are engaged, employ a variety of accounting methods
not adapted to making returns upon the so-called statutory cash basis, and that in such cases a return on the
basis upon which the accounts are kept will more clearly
reflect income than a return on the statutory cash basis.
The -regulations issued under § 13(d) preclude the
deduction of the 1916 munitions tax in 1916. T. D. 2433.
In the last paragraph of this regulation its application is

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellees in No. 337.

269 U. S.

limited by the following provision: "The reserves contemplated by the foregoing rule are those reserves only
which are set up to meet some actual liability incurred,
the amount necessary to discharge which cannot at the
time be definitely determined." This language leaves
the reserve for taxes established by this taxpayer outside
the bounds of the Treasury Decision, since the munitions
tax here involved was not an actual liability at December
31st, 1916. Taxes constitute a liability only when they
become due or at the earliest when they axe assessed.
Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71; Meriwether v.
Garrett, 102 U. S. 472. That T. D. 2433 was not intended
to permit taxpayers to deduct reserves for taxes is indicated not only by the contemporaneous action of the
Commissioner, but also by the specific provisions of T. D.
2490, issued January 2, 1918, nearly a year after T. D.
2433, under which Treasury Decision taxes deductible
were without qualification described as "taxes paid
within the year."
The appellees' munitions tax for 1916 did not accrue
until 1917, in which year it was first assessed, became due
and payable, and was in fact paid, and consequently it
was properly deducted from income for that year.
United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632. Clapp v.
Mason, 94 U. S. 589; Mason v. Sargent, 104 U. S. 689;
Sturges v. 'United States, 117 U. S. 363. The fact is that
the uncertainties attending the computation of the munitions tax in 1916 which could only be resolved by future
events, were at least as many and as great as in the case
of the ordinary estate tax. Moreover, there was always
the possibility that the law would be changed before the
tax became due. There is no analogy between taxes and
expenses. Meriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472; Schuster
v. Williams, 283 Fed. 115.
The Burton-Richards Company made its returns for
1916 and 1917, not under the alternative provisions of §

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Argument for Appellee in No. 420.

13(d), but under the provisions of §§ 10 and 12(a). That

being the case, there can be no dispute that its 1916 munitions tax was deductible in 1917, the year when it was
paid.
Mr. Louis H. Porter,with whom Mr. F. Carroll Taylor
was on the brief, for appellee in No. 420.
I. Under the Revenue Acts of 1916 and 1917 only taxes
actually paid within the taxable period could be deducted
in determining taxable net income.
The specific language of § 12a permits only the deduction of taxes "paid within the year."
Under the 1909, 1913, and 1916 laws the clause allowing the deduction of taxes was substantially the same and,
since under the earlier acts the Treasury adopted a construction permitting only the deduction of taxes actually
paid, although permitting the deduction of business expenses accrued but not paid, Congress, in using the same
clause in the 1916 Act, intended to adopt the former departmental construction. United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos y Compania, 209 U. S. 337; United States v.
G. Falk & Bro., 204 U. S. 143.
The subsequent change of this clause in the 1918 Revenue Act to permit the deduction of taxes " paid or accrued
during the taxable year" amounts to a Congressional construction that the prior act did not intend the deduction
Tiger v. Western Investment Co.,
of taxes "accrued."
221 U. S. 286; Sarlls v. United States, 152 U. S. 570.
Sec. 13d of Part II, Title I of the 1916 Revenue Act
which permitted returns to be made on the basis of the
corporate books, under the direction of the Treasury,
where the books were kept on other than a receipt and
disbursement basis, was merely a recognition of a privilege
which had in fact been extended by the Treasury under
the 1909 and 1913 acts and serves only to confirm the
prior departmental construction permitting deduction of

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

accrued business expenses but only deduction of taxes
actually paid.
II. The munition manufacturers tax did not accrue
until the year in which it was dbe and payable.
III. The contention that appellee's accounting practice
of setting up a tax reserve at the end of 1916 required its
tax for the years 1916 and 1917 to be computed on the
basis of such tax reserves, instead of on the basis of taxes
actually paid, involves impossible inconsistencies.
Consistency and certainty in fiscal acts are of universal
importance.. Comm'rs. of Inland Revenue v. Harrison,
L. R. 7 H. L. 1.
The Government's contention is unsound and inconsistent in that it substitutes a rule of accounting to determine when a tax " accrues" in place of a legal definition. United States v. Merriam, 263 U. S. 179.
Where there is ambiguity in the language of a taxing
stiAulte the taxpayer is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
Unitted States v. Wigglesworth, Fed. Cas. No. 16690;
Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151; Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S.
529.
The right to deduct taxes "paid within the year" is
specifically given by § 12a, while § 13d does not definitely
or clearly vary the specific language of § 12a. The Dollar
Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellees in both cases brought suit in the Court of
Claims to recover payments of corporate income taxes
alleged to have been erroneously exacted. From judgments in their favor the Government brings the cases to
this court on appeal. Jud. Code, § 242, before amendment of 1925.
For the purpose of discussing the main question raised
by both appeals, No. 420 will first be considered, and such

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Opinion of the Court.

additional questions as are involved in No. 337 will then
be taken up.
The appellee, Yale & Towne Manufacturing Co., a Connecticut corporation, was, in 1916, engaged in the manufacture of munitions. The tax imposed by the United
States on the profits on munitions manufactured by it
and sold during that year, became due and was paid in
1917. In making* its return for income tax for the year
1917, the appellee deducted from its gross income the
amount of the munitions tax thus paid. Later the Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that the munitions
tax paid in 1917 should have been deducted from the appellee's gross income in its return for 1916. There was in
consequence an adjustment of the income taxes payable
in those years, resulting in a net increase of the tax payable for the year 1917 of $116,044.40, which was assessed
and paid under protest and is the amount for which suit
was brought.
The correctness of the determination of the Conmissioner depends upon the construction of the Revenue Act
of 1916 and its application to the particular method employed by the taxpayer in keeping its books ofaccount and
in making return for income tax for 1916. Thd pertinent
provisions of the statute are sections 10, 12(a), 13(a)
and (d) and 300 of the Revenue Act of 1916. (c. 463, 39
Stat. 756, 765, 767-8, 770-1, 780-1). The Act imposes a
tax on net income and profits ascertained as provided by
12(a), by deducting from gross income, expenses paid,
losses sustained, interest and taxes paid during the calendar year. Section 13(d) however, provides that:
"A corporation . . . keeping accounts upon any basis
other than that of actual receipts and disbursements,
unless such other basis does not clearly reflect its income,
may, subject to regulations by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of he Secretary of the
Treasury, make its return upon the basis upon which its

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

accounts are kept, in which case the tax shallbe computed
upon its income as returned
"
In the year 1916 the appellee set up on its books of
account all the obligations or expenses incurred during
the year whether they fell due and whether they were
paid during that year. It entered in an account, "reserves for taxes," items of various kinds of taxes, liability
for which was incurred by reason of its operations for that
year, whether paid or payable during the year. Included
in the reserves for taxes for 1916 were items aggregating
$247,763.19 for taxes on profits from the sale of munitions
during the year. The return for the munitions tax was
made by the appellee in 1917, and the tax, after revision
and an additional assessment, was paid in 1917, the year.
when it was due.
In making up its income tax return. for 1916, appellee
deducted from gross income all the items appearing on its
books as losses sustained and obligations and expenses incurred during the year, except that it omitted. from the
return the items of munitions tax, likewise carried on its
books, as an obligation or expense incurred or accrued in
the year.
It is urged by the Government 1-hat the appellee, not
having kept ita books or made its tax return on the basis
of receipts and disbursements, has elected to avail itself
of the privilege afforded by § 13(d) of making its return
on what was referred to in the briefs and arguments as
"the accrual basis "; that having so elected, it is required
consistently to deduct frbm gross income all items appearing on its books as expenses accruing or incurred during the taxable year, including its reserve for munitions
taxes, whether payable or not.
It is not denied by the appellee that its method of keeping its accounts and setting up a reserve for munitions
taxes reflected its true income for 1916 or that its amended
return on that basis accurately reflects its income and

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Opinion of the Court.

profits for the year. But it contends that the munitions
tax was deductible only in 117 because under the Revenue Act of 1916 only taxes actually paid during the year
were deductible in determining net income for the year;
and that in any case the provisions of that Act and the
regulations made by the Commissioner, authorizing the
taxpayer to make his returns on an "accrual" basis if his
books are so kept, could have no application to tax deductions, since a tax does not accrue until it is due and
payable.
While § 12(a) taken by itself would appear to require
,the income tax return to be made on the basis of actual
receipts and disbursements, it is to be read with § 13(d)
which we have quoted and which obviously limits in some
respects the opeiation of § 12(a) by providing in substance that a corporation keeping its books on a basis
other than receipts and disbursements, may make its
return on that basis provided it is one which reflects
income.
Standing by themselves and taken at their face value,
these sections would seem to require the taxpayer to make
its return on the basis'of receipts and disbursements or,
in the alternative, on the basis of its own books of account
if they reflect true income, under such regulations as the
Commissioner may make, and indeed to require the latter
alternative if the taxpayer is unable to make a returii
except on that basis.
So interpreting the statute, the Commissioner, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, on January 8,
1917, before appellee made its income tax return for 1.916,
promulgated Treasury Decision 2433 which provides in
part that under § 13(d) it "will be permissible for corporations which accrue on their books monthly or at .other
stated periods amounts sufficient to meet fixed annui or
other charges to deduct from their gross income tbe
amounts so accrued, provided such accruals approximate

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U.S.

as nearly as possible the actual liabilities for which the
accruals are made, and provided that in cases wherein
deductions are made on the accrual basis as hereinbefore
indicated, income from fixed and determinable sources
accruing to the corporations must be returned, for the
purpose of the tax, on the same basis." It also provided in substance that when the taxpayer, following
a consistent accounting practice, sets up reserves to
meet liabilities, the "amount of which or date of maturity" is not definitely determinable, such reserve may
be deducted from gross income. The decision also laid
down a procedure for readjusting such reserves when the
amount actually required for that purpose was definitely
ascertained, and provided that if returns upon this basis
of "accrual or reserves" did not reflect true net income,
the taxpayer would noV be permitted to make its return
on any other basis than that of "actual receipts and disbursements."
We think that the statute was correctly interpreted by
the Commissioner and that his decision referred to was
consistent with its purpose and intent.
The Revenue Acts of 1909 and 1913 authorized a
method of computing the income of corporations, which
did not differ materially from that provided by § 12(a)
of the Act of 1916. They required in terms that net
income should be ascertained by deducting from gross
income received, interest, expenses and taxes actually paid
and loswes actually sustained, but contained no provision
corresponding to § 13(d) of the Act of 1916 by which a
return might be made on the basis of the taxpayer's books
of account. Corporation Excise Tax, Act of August 5,
1909, c. 6, § 38, 36 Stat. 11, 112; Corporation Income Tax,
Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, Section II, subdiv. G, 38
Stat. 114, 172.
It was pressed upon us in argument by appellees that
it was found impracticable to comply strictly with the

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Opinion of the Court.

requirements of the 1909 and 1913 Acts for computing
income on the basis of receipts and disbursements and
that under both acts the administrative practice was
established, by appropriate Treasury regulations, permitting the use of inventories and authorizing deduction of
expenses constituting a liability of the taxpayer, whether
paid or not, in ascertaining net income, but that those
regulations did not permit the deduction of taxes except
in the year when paid. From this it is argued that Congress, by reenacting in § 12(a) of the Act of 1916 the
corresponding provisions of the earlier acts, adopted the
settled administrative practice, and that accordingly
under that act, as well as under the earlier acts and
Treasury regulations, taxes could be deducted only in the
year when paid.
This argument would have force had Congress stopped
with the enactment of § 12(a). By thus adopting, without material change, the corresponding provisions of
earlier acts, Congress might have been deemed to have
recognized and adopted the established practice of the
Department interpreting and applying them. National
Lead Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140. But, in the Act
of 1916, Congress added § 13(d), which did not have its
counterpart in earlier legislation. This section went
further than any previous regulation by authorizing the
tax return to be made on the basis on which the taxpayer's books were kept, provided only that the basis
was one reflecting income and the return complied with
regulations made by the Commissioner.
Treasury Decision 2433, to which reference has been
made, was in harmony with this view of § 13(d). It recognized the right of the corporation to deduct all accruals
and reserves, without distinction, made on its books to
meet liabilities, provided the return included income
accrued and, as made, reflected true net income. If the
return failed so to reflect income, the regulation reserved

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

the right of the Commissioner to require the return to
on the basis of receipts and disbursements.
beAmade
consideration
of the difficulties involved in the
preparation of an income account on a strict basis of receipts and disbursements for a business of any complexity,
which had been experienced in the application of tfie Acts
of 1909 and 1913 and which made it necessary to authorize, by departmental regulation, a method of preparing
returns not in terms provided for by those statutes, indicates with no uncerta'inty the purpose of §§ 12(a) and
13(d) of the Act of 1916. It was to enable taxpayers to
keep their books and make their returns according to
scientific accounting principles, by charging against income earned during the taxable period, the expenses incurred in and properly attributable to the process of earning income during that period; and indeed, to require the
tax return to be made on that basis, if the taxpayer failed
or was unable to make the return on a strict receipts and
disbursements basis.
The appellee's true income for the year 1916 could not
have been determined without deducting from its gross
income for the year the total cost ard expenses attributable to the production of that income during the year. The
reserve for munitions taxes set up on its books for 1916
must have been deducted from receivables for munitions
sold in that year before the net results of the operations
for the year could be ascertained. The taxpayer being
unable to make its return on a strict receipts and disbursements basis, and not having attempted to do so,
could not have complied with § 13(d) and Treasury Decision 2433 by deducting either accruals of interest or expenses alone without the other, or without deducting
other reserves made on its books to meet liabilities such
as the munitions tax, incurred in the process of creating
income.
Only a word need be said with reference to the contention that the tax upon munitions manufactured and

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
422

Opinion of the Court.

sold in 1916 did not accrue until 1917. In a technical
legal sense it may be argued that a tax does not accrue
until it has been assessed and becomes due; but it is also
true that in advance of the assessment of a tax, all the
events may occur which fix the amount of the tax and determine the liability of the taxpayer to pay it. In this
respect, for purposes of accounting and of ascertaining
true income for a given accounting period, the munitions
tax here in question did not stand on any different footing
than other accrued expenses appearing on appellee's
books. In .the economic and bookkeeping sense with
which the statute and Treasury decision were concerned,
the taxes had accrued. It should be noted that § 13(d)
makes no use. of the words "accrue" or "accrual" but
merely provides for a return upon the basis upon which
the taxpayer's accounts are kept, if it reflects incomewhich is precisely the return insisted upon by the Government. We do not think that the Treasury decision contemplated a return on any other basis when it used the
terms "accrued" and "accrual" and provided for the deduction by the taxpayer of items "accrued on their
books ".
United States v. Woodward, 256 U. S. 632, relied upon
by appellees, arose under the Income Tax Law of 1918,
(c. 18, Title II, §§ 210-214, 219, 1405, 40 Stat. 1062-1067, 1071, 1151). Section 213(a) and (e) of that Act,
provided that taxes "paid or accrued" within the taxable
year imposed by authority of the United States, except
income, war profits and excess profits taxes, might be deducted in ascertaining income. The claim of the taxpayer of the right to deduct estate taxes levied under that
Act for the year when due, although paid in a later year,
was upheld. It did not appear whether, as here, the taxpayer kept his books on the-accrual basis or whether, as
here, events had occurred before the tax became due
which fixed the amount of it; for it did not. appear

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

whether the deductions to be made from the testator's
gross estate were ascertainable for the purpose of determining the estate tax. The question which we now have
to determine was not raised, considered or decided in that
case.
We conclude that the reserves for taxes which appeared
on appellee's books in 1916 were deductible under § 13(d)
of the Act of 1916 and Treasury Decision 2433 in its
income tax return on the accrual basis for that year.
It was argued in behalf of the appellees in No. 337 that
the taxpayer did not keep its books on an accrual basis;
that consequently its case was not controlled by § 13(d)
and Treasury regulations made under it, and that by
§ 12(a) it was authorized to deduct the amount assessed
for munitions taxes only in 1917, the year when paid.
On this point we are concluded by the findings. They
show that in the year 1916 the taxpayer accrued on its
books expenses, whether paid or not, including "insurance
reserves," "freight reserves," "bonus reserves," and depreciation charged off, aggregating more than two and a
half million dollars, which it deducted from accrued gross
income, whether actually received or not, in making its
income tax return for the year. It charged on its books
and deducted in its income tax return, interest accrued
and paid during the year. So far as appears no other
interest accrued during the year and there was no reserve
for interest. No charge or deduction was made for bad
debts. It also set up on its books for that year a monthly
reserve of $35,000 for the- payment of munitions taxes
beginning with September, the month of the passage of
the Revenue Act of 1916 taxing munitions. On December 31, 1916, this reserve account was closed out and a
charge was made on its books against the corporate surplus for account of munitions taxes of $86,541.95. No
deduction was made by the taxpayer for munitions taxes
in its income tax return for the year 1916. In 1917 the

PROVOST v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

422

munitions tax was returned and ultimately assessed and
paid in the sum of $112,419.54.
Since the suit was one to recover a tax erroneously
exated, the burden was on the petitioners, appellees here,
to prove the facts establishing the invalidity of the tax.
But the findings fail to show affirmatively that the books
were kept or the return made on the basis of receipts and
disbursements. Indeed, the facts found, to which we
have referred, show that the books were kept on the basis
of accruals and reserves to meet liabilities incurred. It
does not appear that there was any expense or liability
of the taxpayer incurred by its operations during the year
which was not accrued on its books. Its return was made
on that basis, but omitted munitions taxes accrued on its
books during the year for which the return was made.
We think these facts bring the case clearly within the
principle which we deem to be applicable to No. 420.
The judgment of the Court of Claims in each case is
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.

PROVOST

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 258. Argued November 18, 1925.-Decided January 4, 1926.
1. Transfers involved in the "lending" of stock and "return" of the
stock "borrowed," on the New York Stock Exchange, are taxable
transfers, within the meaning of provisions of the Revenue Acts
of 1917, and 1918, imposing a stamp tax of two cents per
share upon "all sales or agreements to sell, or memoranda' of
sales or deliveries of, or transfers of legal title to shares or cer-

tificates of stock."

P. 456.

2. Under the rules and practice of' the New York Stock Exchange,
a broker requiring certificates of stock to deliver in consummation of a short sale, may "borrow" them for that purpose from
another broker as follows: The "borrower" deposits with the

