CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
PATTERSON

v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE
RAILROAD CO. ET AL.

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 221.

Argued April 23, 24, 1925.-Decided October 12, 1925.

1. The power given the Interstate Commerce Commission by § 4
of the Act to Regulate Commerce, upon special application to prescribe the extent t which a carrier might be relieved from the
operation of that section, containing the long-and-short-haul clause,
extended also to the aggregate-of-intermediates clause, when that
was added to the section by amendment of June 18, 1910. P. 9.
2. Under the second proviso of § 4, a through rate, exceeding the aggregate of intermediates, if in effect on June 18, 1910, and then
lawful, remained so, provided an application to suspend the operation of the section was duly made and was either allowed by the
Commission or remained undetermined. P. 11.
3. A through rate higher than the aggregate of intermediates is prima
facie unreasonable; and, if unreasonably high, violates § 1 of the
act despite the pendency of an application suspending the aggregate-of-intermediates clause. P. 12.
4. But when the sole cause of action advanced by the shipper is violation of the aggregate-of-intermediates clause, pendency of the
carrier's due and timely application for relief from that clause is
a defense, and there is no occasion to consider either the presumption of unreasonableness or the justification for making the through
rate higher. P. 12.
2 Fed. (2d) 592, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

269 U. S.

ER OR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment of the District Court which sustained demurrers to the amended declaration in an action
brought by numerous shippers of horses and mules against
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company, and James C.
Davis, Director General of Railroads, as Federal Agent,
to enforce an order of reparation, made by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to recover interest, costs and
attorney's fee.

Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Mac Asbill was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Suit having been brought on an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, made after complaint and full
hearing, such order is prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated, including the damages; and a petition
setting forth briefly the causes for which damages are
claimed and the order of the Commission, is not open to
demurrer.
In Pennsylvania R. R. v. International Coal Co., 230
U. S. 184, Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R., 230
U. S. 247, and Davis v. PortlandSeed Co., 264 U. S. 403,
no order of the Commission was involved. The case is
ruled by Meeker v. LehighValley R. R., 236 U. S. 412;
Pennsylvania R. R. v. Clark Bros. Co., 238 U. S. 458;
Mills v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 238 U. S. 473; Pennsylvania
R. R. v. Jacoby, 242 U. S. 89; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U. S. 531; Spiller v. Atchison,
etc. Ry., 253 U. S. 117; Interstate Commerce Comm. v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R., 227 U. S. 88.
It has been the general practice of the Commission to allow reparation for the unlawful exaction of through rates
in excess of the aggregate of the intermediates. Alabama
Packing Co. v. Louisville &' Nashville R. R., 47 I. C. C.
524; Kyle v. M. K. & T. R. Co., 42 I. C. C. 335; Traffic
Bureau of Aberdeen Commercial Club v. Director Gen-

PATTERSON v. L. &. N. RAILROAD.

3

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

eral, 56 I. C. C. 147; Standard Rail & Steel Co. v. M. P.
R. R., 73 I. C. C. 219; United Iron Works v. Director General, 74 I. C. C. 277. The Commission has never, after
hearing an application for* relief from the clause, approved such application. See Morgan's L. & T. R. & S. S.
Co. v. Joseph Iron Co., 243 Fed. 149. In the case at bar
the undisputed evidence was that the through rates assailed exceeded the aggregate of the intermediate rates
contemporaneously in effect, and therefore were in violation of § 4 of the Act. 63 I. C. C. 6; 74 I. C. C. 419.
Reasonableness or unreasonableness is a question of fact.
Ill. Central R. R. v. I. C. C., 206 U. S. 441; Seaboard Air
Line Ry. v. United States, 254 U. S. 57.
The Director General was not exempt from the fourth
section. In Davis v. Portland Seed Co., supra, he contended that the long-and-short-haul provision did not
apply to him. See 264 U. S. 407. By necessary implication, his contention must have been overruled. There is
even greater reason why the aggregate-of-intermediates
clause binds him. Johnston v. Atchison etc. Ry., 51
I. C. C. 356; United States v. Metropolitan Lumber Co.,
254 Fed. 335.
Interest is allowable against the Director General. Mo.
Pacific Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554; Davis v. Stamford Co.,
260 S. W. 1081; § 10, Fed. Control Act.
The petition with exhibits attached does iot show that
a timely or adequate application to suspend the operation
of the aggregate-of-the-intermediates clause was made by
the defendants. Bearing on this point, the Court may
consider the rules of the Commission and the official communications of its Secretary. Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan,
264 U. S. 504; Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573; Caha v.
United States, 152 U. S. 211; The Paquete Habana, 175
U. S. 677; Robinson v. Baltimore & 0. R. R., 222 U. S.
506. No suspension can be granted, unless a "special
case" is shown. The clause is not a statute which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

269 U. S.

Commission has jurisdiction to suspend. A greater charge
for the through rate than the aggregate of the intermediates
is always prima facie unlawful; and, 'in the absence of
justification, an order condemning the higher charge, will
always be entered; and generally reparation in such cases
has been awarded and paid. A through tariff on a joint
line is not the standard by which the reasonableness of
the local tariff of either carrier should be measured or
condemned. C. & N. W. Ry. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. 912;
Parsonsv. C. & N. W. Ry., 63 Fed. 903; Augusta S. R. Co.
v. Wrightsville &. T. R. Co., 74 Fed. 522. See New Orleans Board of Trade v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 17
I. C. C. 231; Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.,
227 U. S. 88. The 1910 amendment to § 4 merely 'nade
statutory the rule that had been enforced by the Commission and the courts. The cost of two intermediate hauls
being greater than that of the one through haul, there
should not be a greater charge for the latter. Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167. See Minneapolis & St. L. R. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257.
The amendment containing the aggregate-of-the-intermediates clause, was not to lessen, but to increase, the
rights of shippers; and in construing it that purpose
should be kept in mind. It should also be remembered
that the power to grant relief from the long-and-shorthaul clause was already ini the Act. The aggregate-of-theintermediates provision was inserted after the section had
otherwise been completed, and this insertion might properly have been placed elsewhere in the Act. The history
of the long-and-short-haul clause shoWs that there were
reasons why the Commission should have authority to
suspend, even permanently to modify, that clause. S~e
Hadley, Railroad Transportation, pp. 65, 155; Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. L. & N. R. R., 190 U. S. 273. No
such reasons apply to the aggregate-of-the-intermediates
clause.

PATTERSON v. L. &. N. RAILROAD.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The history of the provision furnishes conclusive reasons why there should be no suspension by the Commission. Looking to the language and punctuation, it is
clear that the provision for granting relief cannot be
made to apply to the aggregate-of-the-intermediates
clause. Had there been no amendment of 1910, plaintiffs
in error, there having been no justification by the carriers
for their unlawful charge, would have received the award
of reparation which they did receive and would have been
able to collect it. Can it be contended that the amendment lessened their rights? See Hudson Mule Co. v.
Director General, 91 I. C. C. 459. The Commission's
power was not intended to be enlarged by the amendment of 1910 but the purpose was rather to restrict it.
United States v. Atchison etc. Ry., 234 U. S.476; Cong.
Rec. April 12, 1910, pp. 4579, 4580.
It is contended that the fact that the Interstate Commerce Commission permits the filing of applications to
suspend the clause in question furnishes argument in support of the right of the Commission so to do. But if we
apply the principle that the practice of the Commission
should be given force in construing a statute we have a
practice of the Commission continued through some
thirty years holding that reparation is properly awarded
in a case like this. Besides, while the Commission did
state in its report to Congress in 1911, pp. 19 and 20,
that it had authority to suspend, the Commission based
its opinion rather on an argument of convenience and a
question of practicality. After the Act of 1910, the greater
charge for the through rate became unlawful, unjust and
unreasonable. Even if, to protect the carriers against the
criminal provisions of the Act, and as a practical reason,
the Commission may be justified in granting relief, there
is no reason for the Commission to hold, (and it did not,)
that the suspension of the amendment of 1910 deprives a
shipper of civil rights. The carrier as a " practical mat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

ter" might be protected against criminal prosecution by
an application, but no application could make reasonable,
just and lawful that which the courts, the Commission and
the Congress had said was unjust, unreasonable and unlawful. To give the Commission power, unlimited as to
time and as to the principles to be applied, to suspend a
statute would be a delegation of legislative power and
unconstitutional. Courts will, if possible, so construe a
statute as -to make it constitutional.
If the Commission had power to suspend the aggregateof-the-intermediates clause, -and had it done so, the Commission nevertheless had jurisdiction to determine
whether or not, under §8 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
plaintiffs in error suffered damages, and the amounts
thereof; and such determination is prima facie correct.
Mr. Nelson W. Proctor, with whom Mr. William A.
Northcutt was on the brief, for defendants in error, Louisville & Nashville R. R. and Nashville, Chattanooga & St.
Louis Ry.
Mr. John F. Finerty, for Davis, Director. General.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered 'the opinion of the

Court.
Section 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended
June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547, provides, among
other things: "That it shall be unlawful for any common
carrier subject to the provisions of this Act

to

charge any greater compensation as a through rate than
the aggregate of the intermediate rates subject to the provisions of this Act."
This suit was brought in the federal court for northern
Georgia, under § 16, paragraph 2, of the Act, to enforce an
order of reparation for $30,000 which had been entered by
the Interstate Commerce Commission on April 9, 1923,
pursuant to §§ 8 and 9. The shipments having been made
from time to time between January 1, 1916 and December

PATTERSON v. L. &. N. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

1, 1918, both the railroad companies and James C. Davis,
as agent designated by the President under § 206 of
Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461, were
joined as defendants before the Commission and in the
courts. The rates under which these shipments were
made were first established in 1892, and were proportionately increased under the terms of general order No. 28
of the Director General of Railroads on June 25, 1918.
The case was heard upon demurrer to the declaration, to
which were annexed as exhibits the several complaints
before the Commission and the order of the Commission
with incorporated reports. The demurrers were sustained by the District Court; judgment was entered for
the defendants; and this judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 2 Fed. (2d) 592. The case is
here on writ of error under § 241 of the Judicial Code.
The complaint before the Commission as amended
charged that the through rates were " unreasonable, excessive and unjustly discriminatory contrary to the First,
Third and Fourth Sections," and also charged specifically
that they violated the aggregate-of-intermediates clause
above quoted. The report shows that relief was not
granted on the ground of unjust discrimination under
§ 3, nor on the ground of departure from the long-andshort-haul clause of § 4. As to the remaining grounds of
relief asserted in the complaint, the report states: "
we find that, while the rates assailed appear not unduly
high, they were unreasonable in and to the extent that
they respectively exceeded the aggregate of the intermediate rates subject to the act; that complainants made
shipments and paid and bore the charges thereon upon
the basis of the through rates and were damaged thereby;
and that they are entitled to reparation on the basis of
the difference between the respective through rates and
the sums of the lowest intermediate rates subject to the
act applicable on all shipments which moved since the
dates above stated for the several complainants."

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Whether the Commission intended to base its order of
reparation upon § 1, or upon the aggregate-of-intermediates clause of § 4, or upon both, is left uncertain by the
language used. The District Court apparently assumed
that the report awarded, and the declaration sought, such
relief on both grounds. It held thalt there was no liability
under § 4, because the Commission had found that the
through rates which exceeded the local had been protected
by proper application for relief from the operation of that
clause of the section. It held that there was no liability
under § 1, because the Commission found that the through
rates, although higher than the aggregate of the intermediates, were " not unduly high." The Circuit Court of
Appeals construed the declaration as seeking recovery
only on the ground that the quoted clause of § 4 had been
violated; and it affirmed the judgment because the
shippers had failed to show that this violation had caused
them special pecuniary damage. The declaration, and
the brief and argument submitted for the shippers in this
Court, make it clear that the only cause of action sued on
is the violation of the aggregate-of-intermediates clause of
§ 4. We have, therefore, no occasion to pass upon the effect of the finding that the through rates were " not unduly high " or on other questions discussed by counsel
bearing upon liability under § 1.
The shippers insist that, since the declaration set forth
an order of reparation for violation of the aggregate-ofintermediates clause duly made upon complaint and hearing, the demurrer should have been overruled. The argument is that the Commission is without power to suspend
the aggregate-of-intermediates clause; that if it has any
such power, it is only to the extent of relieving the carrier
from criminal liability under § 10 of the Act, so that in no
event can a suspension relieve the carrier from civil
liability to shippers; that the Commission thus retains the
power under §§ 8 and 9 to award reparation for damage

PATTERSON v. L. &. N. RAILROAD.

9

Opinion of the Court.

suffered; that, whatever the power of the Commission to
suspend the clause in question, that power does not appear to have been invoked in this case by an adequate and
timely application to the Commission; that since, on any
one of the above grounds, the Commission was free to
award reparation upon finding damage suffered as a result
of the higher through rate, and found such damage, its
report stated a prima facie liability; and that, as the
declaration embodied the report, it was good on demurrer.
The argument is, in our opinion, unsound.
The aggregate-of-intermediates clause was inserted in
§ 4 by the Act of June 18, 1910. Since that amendment,
as before, the section empowers the Commission, upon
special application, to " prescribe the extent to which
such designated common carrier may be relieved from the
operation of this section." The question whether, after
the amendment, the power so conferred was still limited
to the long-and-short-haul clause or extended also to the
aggregate-of-intermediates clause, received careful consideration immediately after the passage of the 1910 Act.
The Commission concluded that its power to grant the
relief applied to both of these clauses. In its annual report for 1911 the reasons for this conclusion were set
forth. Pp. 19-20. The construction then adopted has
been acted upon consistently ever since.' So, far as appears, no court, federal or state, has taken a different view.
And Congress has acquiesced.
In support of the contention that the power to relieve
from the operation of the section does not cover this case,
the shippers point to the fact that, while the charge of the
Humphreys Godwih v. Yazoo & M. V. R. R. Co., 31 1. C. C. 25,
29; Through Rates from Buffalo-Pittsburg Territory, 36 I. C. C. 325;
Through Rates to Points in Louisiana and Texas, 38 I. C. C. 153,
Du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Director General, 62 I. C. C. 109;
Fares between New York and Points West of Newark, 74 1. C. C.
516; Fidelity Lumber Co. v. Louisiana & P. Ry. Co., 83 1. C. C.
499, 500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

higher through rate did not become unlawful per se until
the provision to that effect was inserted in § 4 by the 110
Act, the Commission had repeatedly held that a through
rate higher than the aggregate "of the intermediates was
prima facie unreasonable. 2 From this they argue that the
construction given to the amended Act by the defendant
carriers would result in abridging, instead of enlarging,
the rights of shippers in this respect, .and therefore should
not be adopted. We think such a conclusion erroneous.
The construction given the section by the carriers does not
result in abridging the rights of shippers. As a result of
the amendment such through rates, unless protected by
proper application, are not merely prima facie unreasonable, but unlawful by express statutory provision. The
Commission, while claiming the power to suspend the
operation of the clause in question, has continued to hold
that, as before the amendment, such through rates are
prima fcie unreasonable when attacked under § 1 of the
Act. 3
Hope Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas & P. Ry. Co,, 12 I. C. C. 265;
Coomes v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C. 192; Oshkosh,
Logging Tool Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 109; lHardenberg, Dolson & Gray v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 579Momsen & Co. v. Gila Valley, G. & N. Ry. Co., 14 I. C. q. 614, 615;'
Lindsay Bros. v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 15 I. C C. 40; Michigan
Buggy Co. v. Grand Rapids & I. Ry. Co., 15 I. C. C. 297; Lindsay
Bros. v. Baltimore & 0. S. W. R. R. Co., 16 I. C. C. 6; Wells-Higman
Co. v. Grand.Rapids & I. Ry. Co., 16 I. C. C. 339; Blodgett Milling
Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 16 I. C C. 384; Smith Mfg. Co.
v. Chicago, M. & G. Ry. Co., 16 I. C. C. 447; Milburn Wagon Co. v.
Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 18 I. C. C. 144; Windsor Turned Goods
Co v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 18 I. C. C. 162.
3 See, e. g., Humphreys Godwin Co. v. Yazoo & M. V. R. R. Co., 31
I. C. C. 25; Alabama Packing Co. v. Louisville & N. R. R. Co., 47
I. C. C. 524, 529; Williams Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 50 I. C. a1. 531,
533; Virginia-CarolinaChemical Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.,
78 I. C. C. 107; Davision & Namack Foundry Co. v. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co.; 81 1. C. C. 345; La Crosse Chamber of Commerce v.
Director General, 93 I. C. C. 602.
2

PATTERSON v. L. &. N. RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

No good reason is shown for denying to the words used
their clear and natural meaning. Compare Skinner &
Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U. S. 557, 564-568. On
the other hand, there is good reason why the two prohibitions of § 4 should be treated similarly. Apart from statutory enactment it is prima facie unreasonable to charge
more for a sborter than for a longer haul. To charge more
for a through haul than the aggregate of the intermediate
rates is likewise prima facie unreasonable. In each case
conditions may exist which, if shown, would establish the
reasonableness of the rate in question. Under the Act to
Regulate Commerce as originally enacted the carriers
were, in each class of cases, at liberty to introduce the rate
without first securing the consent of the Commission. If
its invalidity were later asserted, they could escape liability by establishing then its justification. By amendatory
legislation, Congress provided, in each class of cases, that
the rate should not be charged unless, prior to its introduction, the Commission had, upon special application,
granted authority therefor. Intermountain Rate Cases,
234 U. S. 476.
The shippers' contention that relief from the operation
of the aggregate-of-intermediates clause was not invoked
by an adequate and timely application is also unsound.
Under the second proviso of § 4 the rates complained of,
if in effect on June 18, 1910 and then lawful, remained so,
provided an application to suspend the operation of the
section was duly made and was either allowed or remained
undetermined. The District Court construed the report
of the Commission as finding that the then existing rates
here in question were so protected. We, also, construe the
report as finding, in effect, that application for relief was
made and was both adequate and timely.
It is true that the due filing of such an application for
relief from the aggregate-of-intermediates clause or even
an order granting relief thereon, would not render legal a

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

rate which violated some other section of the Act. See
United States v. Merchants, etc. Assn., 242 U. S. 178, 188.
A through rate would be unlawful, despite such an order,
if it violated § 3 because unjustly discriminatory, or if
it violated § 1 because unreasonably high. The Commission is correct in holding, as before stated, that if a
through rate higher than the aggregate of the intermediates
is attacked under § 1, the prima facie presumption that
such higher through rate is unreasonable, and hence unlawful, obtains now as it did before the 1910 amendment.
But no such question could arise in a proceeding limited
to § 4. In a proceeding for violation of either clause of § 4,
there is no occasion to consider either the presumption of
unreasonableness or the existence of a justification for
making the through rate higher. Neither is relevant. For
if there has been an adequate and timely application
within the six months, which application remains undetermined-or an application filed later and granted-there
can be no violation of that section. If there was no such
application filed, the section is violated by the higher
through rate, even if conditions are shown which would
have justified the rate as against a charge of unreasonableness under § 1.
Since there can be no recovery under § 4 because of the
pendency of an application for relief, we have no occasion
to consider whether the rule of Davis v. Portland Seed
Co., 264 U. S. 403, as to damages applies to violations of
the aggregate-of-intermediates clause, nor whether it applies alike to suits based on reparation orders and to those
instituted in the courts without such prior order.
Affirmed.

