148

OCTOBER TERM,1925.
Syllabus.

269 U. S.

court is able to separate the question to see whether there
is a mistake of law. United States v. Omaha Indians, 253
U. S. 275, 281; Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 116; Whitcomb
v. White, 214 U. S.15, 16; Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S.
473, 476. Our consideration of the case is confined to
questions of law. Union Pacific Railway Ca. v. United
States, 116 U. S. 154, 157; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co.
v. United States, 260 U. S. 125. And the situation is the
same as it would be if the facts had been agreed upon by
the parties. United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, 271.
As no infringement was found, the facts are not sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS CITY STRUCTURAL STEEL COMPANY
v. ARKANSAS, FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF
ASHLEY COUNTY.
OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

No. 54.

Submitted October 15, 1925.-Decided November 16, 1925.

the mean1. As to what constitutes doing business in a State within
corforeign
on
conditions
preliminary
imposing
laws
ing of its
Supreme
state
the
porations, this Court accepts the decision of
Court. P. 150.
was
2. But the questions whether a foreign corporation's business
therewere
applied
as
enactments
local
the
whether
interstate and
by
fore repugnant to the Commerce Clause, will be determined
this Court for itself. Id.
Arkansas, a
3. Without first obtaining permission to do business in
of an
construction
the
for
bid
successfully
Missouri corporation
a
executed
Arkansas bridge; executed the contract in Arkansas;
a
to
superstructure
steel
bond; sublet all the work except the
itself
to
Missouri
from
materials
Kansas firm; shipped structural
used
in Arkansas; delivered them there to the subcontractor which
manufacture
the
with
proceeded
and
work;
the
of
part
its
in
them
in Missouri of materials to be used by itself on the superstructure.
special
Held that these activities, viewed collectively, and with

KANSAS CITY STEEL CO. v. ARKANSAS.
148

149

Opinion of the Court.

reference to the local delivery of materials, were partly intrastate
in character, and that infliction of a penalty for noncompliance
with the Arkansas corporation law was not repugnant to the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. P. 151.
161 Ark. 483, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Cour of Arkansas,
sustaining a penalty for violation of the state statutes
requiring foreign corporations to comply with certain conditions before doing local business.
Messrs. Armwel L. Cooper, Ellison A. Neel, J. W.
House, Jr., Chas. T. Coleman, and Joe T. Robinson were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J.1R. Wilson, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff in error, a corporation organized under the
laws of Missouri, brings here for review (§ 237,. Judicial
Code) a judgment of the Supreme Coprt of Arkansas
which affirms a judgment of the Circuit Court of Shelby
County imposing a fine of $1,000 on plaintiff in error for
doing business in Arkansas without obtaining permission.
The laws of the. State require every corporation incorporated in any other State, doing business in Arkansas, to
file in the office of the Secretary of State certain evidence
of its organization and a financial statement, to designate
its general office and place of business in Arkansas, and to
name an agent there and authorize process to be served
upon him. It is provided that any corporation which
shall do business in Arkansas without having complied
with these requirements shall be subject to.a fine of not
less than $1,000. §§ 1825-1832, Crawford & Moses
Digest, Laws of Arkansas.
Plaintiff in error contends that, as applieS in this case,
the state enactments are repugnant to the commerce
clause of the federal Constitution.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

The material facts are these: May 3, 1921, plaintiff in
error made a bid to the Wilmot Road District for the
construction of a steel bridge near Wilmot, in Ashley
County, Arkansas. Its offer was accepted, and on that
day, a contract covering the work was signed in Arkansas
by the representatives of the parties. The contract was
not to become effective until a bond was given by the
contractor to secure its faithful performance. The bond
was executed in Missouri two days later. June 14, 1921,
.plaintiff in error sublet all the work except the erection
of the steel superstructure to the Yancy Construction
Company, a partnership whose members were residents of
Kansas. August 17, 1921, plaintiff in error secured permission, as required by the laws of Arkansas, to do business in that State. Before such permission was obtained,
the greater ,part of the work sublet had been completed;
plaintiff in error had made certain shipments of steel,
consisting of reinforcing rods, steel piers, tubes and angles,
from Kansas City, Missouri, to itself at Wilmot, Arkansas,
for use in the construction of the bridge; and these materials had been delivered to the subcontractor and used in
the performance of the work done by it. The steel for
the superstructure was fabricated by plaintiff in error in
its plant in Kansas City, some before and some after the
permission was obtained.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas held that the things
done by plaintiff in error before August 17, 1921, constituted in.trastate business in Arkansas. But the. plaintiff
in eri0r contends that all was interstate commerce. We
accept the decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas as
to what constitutes the doing of business in that State
'within the meaning of its own laws. Georgia v. Chattanooga, '264 U. S. 472, 483. But this court will determine
*for itself whether what was done by plaintiff in error was
interstate commerce and whether the state enactments
as'applied are repugnant to the commerce clause. Plain-

KANSAS CITY STEEL CO. v. ARKANSAS.
148

151

Opinion of the Court.

tiff in error cites Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282. It was there held that, "Such commerce [among the States] is not confined to transportation from one State to another, but comprehends all commercial intercourse between different States and all the
component parts of that intercourse" (p. 290); and that,
"A corporation of one State may go into another, without
obtaining the leave or license of the latter, for all the
legitimate purposes of such commerce; and any statute
of the latter State which obstructs or lays a burden on
the exercise of this privilege is void under the commerce
clause" (p. 291). In that case, a Tennessee corporation,
in pursuance of its practice of purchasing grain in Kentucky to be transported to and used in its Tennessee mill,
made a contract for the purchase of wheat to be delivered
in Kentucky on the cars of a public carrier, intending to
forward it as soon as delivery was made. It was held
that the transaction was interstate commerce, notwithstanding the contract was made and was to be performed
in Kentucky. All the things done in Kentucky had reference to and were included in the interstate transaction.
But in the case now before the court, the construction
of the bridge necessarily involved some work and business
in Arkansas, which were separate and distinct from any
interstate commerce that might be- involved in the performance of the contract. From the beginning, transactions local to Arkansas were contemplated. In fact,
plaintiff in error obcained permission to do business in
Arkansas in order to be authorized to erect the steel
superstructure-the part of the work it had not sublet.
But before obtaining such permission, it made the bid
and signed the contract in Arkansas; it shipped from
Kansas City to itself at Wilmot the materials for the
performance of the work it had sublet, and, after the
interstate transit had ended, delivered them to the subcontractor who used them in the work. We need not

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

consider whether, under the circumstances shown, the
making of the bid, the signing of the contract and execution of the bond would be within the protection of the
commerce clause, if these acts stood alone. But it is
certain that, when all afe taken together, the things done
by plaintiff in error in Arkansas before obtaining the
permission constitute or include intrastate business. The
delivery of the materials to the subcontractor was essential to the building of the bridge, and that was an intrastate and not an interstate transaction. The fact that
the materials had moved from Missouri into Arkansas did
not make the delivery of them to the subcontractor interstate commerce. So far as concerns the question here
involved, the situation is the equivalent of what it would
have been if the materials had been shipped into the State
and held for sale in a warehouse, and had been .furnished
to the subcontractor by a dealer. We think it plain that
the plaintiff in error did business of a local and intrastate
character in Arkansas before it obtained permission.
General Railway Signal Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 500;
Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16; York Manufacturing

Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

dissents.

ARKANSAS v. TENNESSEE.
No. 2, Original.

Argued October 5, 1925.-Decided November 16,
1925.

1. Commissioners appointed in this case to run, locate and designate
part of the boundary between Arkansas and Tennessee along the
middle of the main navigable channel of tie Mississippi River as
it was in 1876 immediately prior to changes wrought by axulsion,
properly made a preliminary investigation and 'a profisional survey
and location of the linein -advance Qofhearing testimony on the
subject. P. 154.

