514

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
269 U. S.

Syllabus.

ness to the receivers to be administered, under the direction of the court, as a trust fund to pay respondent's debts.
In substance, the things done by respondent amounted to
a voluntary assignment of all its property within the
meaning of § 3466. The United States is entitled to
priority. 'Bramwell v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company, supra, affirming 299 Fed. 705; Davis v.

Pullen, 277 Fed. 650; Davis v. Miller-Link Lumber Co.,
296 Fed. 649.

Cf. Equitable Trust Co. v. Connecticut

Brass & Mfg. Corp., 290 Fed. 712; Davis v. Michigan

Trust Co., 2 Fed. (2d) 194.
Decree reversed.

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL, ADMINISTRATRIX.

MITCHELL, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. METCALF &
EDDY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 183 and 376.

Submitted November 30, 1925.-Decided January 11, 1926.

1. Upon a writ of error to the District Court based on a constitutional question, the jurisdiction of this Court is not limited to that
question but extends to the whole case. P. 518.
2. A consulting engineer engaged as such by a State or local Aubdivision for work not permanent or continuous in character on public
water supply and sewage disposal projects, whose duties are prescribed by his contract, and who takes no oath of office and is free
to accept other, concurrent employment, is neither an officer nor
an employee within the meaning of § 201 (a) of the War Revenue
Act of 1917, exempting from income tax the compensation or fees
of officers and employees under any State or local subdivision
thereof. P. 519.
3. The constitutional limitation forbidding the federal Government
and- the State to tax each other's agencies must receive a practical

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
•514

Argument for Metcalf and Eddy.

construction permitting each government to function with -the
minimum of interference from the other. P. 523.
4. One who is not an officer or employee of a State does not establish exemption from federal income tax merely by showing that
his income was received as compensation for service rendered under
a contract with the State, when it does not appear that the tax
impairs in any substantial manner his ability to discharge his
obligations to the State or the ability of the State or its subdivisions to procure the services of private individuals to aid them in
their undertakings. P. 524.
299 Fed. 812, affirmed.
ERROR to review a judgment of the District CourA in a
suit brought against a former Collector to recover money
paid under protest as income tax. The judgment allowed
some of the items claimed and rejected others. Both
sides sued out writs of error. That of the Collector (No.
376) was not pressed at the argument in this Court and
was dismissed.

Messrs. Philip Nichols and Joseph A. Boyer were on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error in No. 183 and defendants
in error in No. 376.
The State immunity extends to all appropriate instrumentalities which the States may select, without distinction between permanent and regular officers and employees on the one hand and other human instrumentalities on the other. it is not limited to such instrumentalities as may be arbitrarily selected by Congress.
United States v. Baltimore &c. R. R., 17 Wall. 322; Freedman v. Sigel, 10 Blatchf. 327; Bettman v. Warwick, 108
Fed. 46. It rests upon the same foundation and is quite
as broad and important as the reciprocal limitation in
favor of the United States. Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700;
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251. The exemption
exists regardless of statute. Biscoe v. Tax Commissioner,
236 Mass. 201.
Beginning with McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
it has been consistently held that a State could not tax

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Metcalf and Eddy.

269 U. S.

the instrumentalities of the United States, whatever their
character. Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Farmers'
&c. Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516; Smith v. Kansas
City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S. 180; FederalLand Bank
v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374. A tax on persons passing
through a State cannot be imposed on officers of the
United States in the performance of their duties, Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 40; and a tax on persons engaged
in sending telegraph messages which makes no exemption
in favor of official messages of the United States is unconstitutional. Williams v. Talladega, 226 U. S. 404. A
State cannot tax the franchise of a transcontinental railroad company chartered by Congress, Californiav. Central Pacific R. R., 127 U. S. 1; nor lands in possession of
an Indian tribe, New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761; Choate
v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665; nor the income derived from such
lands by a lessee, Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501.
Both the United States and the States are free to select
such instrumentalities as they see fit. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S. 437; Osborn v. United States Bank, 9
Wheat. 738.
In addition to officers and employees, independent contractors have been definitely recognized as such appropriate instrumentalities. Osborn v. United States Bank,
supra; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S.
181; Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292;
Indian &c. Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Gillespie
v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Williams v. Talladega, 226 U. S.
404.
It is thus clear that, whether the plaintiffs were officers, employees, or independent contractors, they were
in any event not disqualified from acting as instrumentalities of government by reason of the methods adopted
by the various States and municipalities in acquiring

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
514

Argument for Metcalf and Eddy.

their services, whether by election, appointment, or contract. The essential fact here is that their services were
acquired by a method and in a capacity satisfactory to
the sovereigfity which acquired them. The cases which
limit the power of the States to tax federal instrumentalities draw no distinction between income from personal services on the one hand and income from property
or from the use of capital on the other. The present case
does not, however, require a decision that income from
any source other than from personal services to a State
or political subdivision is exempt from federal taxation.
A tax on compensation for personal service is in substance and effect a tax on gross receipts. It may be that
here the distinction lies. United States Glue Co. v. Oak
Creek, 247 U. S. 321. There is no sound basis for any
distinction between income from personal services resulting from an official appointment and income from personal services resulting from a contractual employment,
and still less basis for a distinction between "regular and
permanent" -officers and employees, and those whose
services are acquired, whether by appointment or by contract, to perform a specific task. The compensation of
such instrumentalities is inseparably connected with the
instrumentalities.
The plaintiffs may be held to be free from taxation on
the items of income involved here without a decision that
the statute is unconstitutional. Upon a not unreasonable
construction the plaintiffs were "employees" of States
and political subdivisions of States. Even if the plaintiffs were not "officers " or "'employees," but were other
appropriate instrumentalities used in the exercise of
strictly governmental functions, the statute may be
treated as inapplicable to them.
The income of the plaintiffs does not cease to be
exempt because the United States has seen fit to tax it
to them jointly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Letts and Mr. Robert P. Reeder, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for Mitchell, former
Collector.
Mr. Lewis M. Isaacs, submitted a brief as amicus curiae,
by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE5

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Metcalf & Eddy, the plaintiffs below, were consulting
engineers who, either individually or as co-partners, were
professionally employed to advise states or subdivisions
of states with reference to proposed water supply and
sewage disposal systems. During 1917 the fees received
by them for these services were paid over to the firm and
became a part of its gross income. Upon this portion of
their net income they paid, under protest, the tax assessed
on the net income of co-partnerships under the War Revenue Act of 1917 (Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, §,209, 40
Stat. 300, 307). They then brought suit in the United
States District Court for Massachusetts to recover the
tax paid on the items in question, on the ground that they
were expressly exempted from the tax by the Act itself,
and on the further ground that Congress had no power
under the Constitution to tax the income in question.
The District Court found that two of the items were
within the statutory exemption; that the remaining
eighteen were not exempt from taxation, either by the
provisions of the statute or under the Constitution, and
entered judgment accordingly. 299 Fed. 812.
The former Collector sued out the writ of error in No.
376 as to the two items on which a recovery was allowed.
In No. 183 the writ of error is prosecuted by the plaintiffs
below as to the remaining items. Jud. Code, § 238, before
amendment of 1925.
As the case comes directly from the District Court to
this Court on a constitutional question, the jurisdiction

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
514

Opinion of the Court.

of this Court is not limited to that question alone, but extends to the whole case. Homer v. United States, No. 2,
143 U. S. 570; Greene v. Louisville, etc., R. R. Co., 244
U. S. 499.
All of the items of income were received by the taxpayers as compensation for their services as consulting
engineers under contracts with states or municipalities,
or water or sewage districts created by state statute. In
each case the service was rendered in connection with a
particular project for water supply or sewage disposal, and
the compensation was paid in some instances on an annual
basis, in others on a monthly or daily basis, and in still
others on the basis of a gross sum for the whole service.
The War Revenue Act provided for the assessment of
a tax on net income; but § 201(a) (40 Stat. at 303) contains a provision for exemption from the tax as follows:
"This title shall apply to all trades or businesses of
whatever description, whether continuously carried on or
not, except"(a) In the case of officers and employees under the
United States, or any State, Territory, or the District of
Columbia, or any local subdivision thereof, the compensation or fees received by them as such officers or em"
ployees
The court found that the two items of income involved
in No. 376 were received by one of the plaintiffs in error
as compensation for his services as the incumbent of an
office created by statute; in one case as chief engineer of
the Kennebec Water District, a political subdivision of
the State of Maine, and in the other as a member of the
Board of Engineers of the North Shore Sanitary District,
a political subdivision of the State of Illinois. The Collector does not press his writ of error in this case, and
we therefore dismiss the writ.
We think it clear that neither of the plaintiffs in error
occupied any official position in any of the undertakings

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

to which their writ of error in No. 183 relates. They took
no oath of office; they were free to accept any other concurrent employment; none of their engagements was for
work of a permanent or continuous character; some were
of brief duration and some from year to year, others for
the duration of the particular work undertaken. Their
duties were prescribed by their contracts and it does not
appear to what extent, if at all, they were defined or prescribed by statute. We therefore conclude that plaintiffs
in error have failed to sustain the burden cast upon, them
of establishing that they were officers of a state or a subdivision of a state within the exception of § 201 (a).
An office is a public station conferred by the appointment of government. The term embraces the idea of
tenure, duration, emolument and duties fixed by law.
Where an office is created, the law usually fixes its incidents, including its term, its duties and its compensation.
United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385; Hall v. Wisconsin, 103 U. S. 5. The term " officer" is one inseparably
connected with an office; but there was no office of sewage
or water supply expert or sanitary -engineer, to which
either of the plaintiffs was appointed. The contracts with
them, although entered into by authority of law and prescribing their duties, could not operate to create an office
or give to plaintiffs the status of officers. Hall v. Wisconsin, supra; Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310.
There were lacking in each instance the essential elements of a public station, permanent in character, created by law, whose incidents and duties were prescribed
by law. See United States v. Maurice, 2 Brock. 96, 102,
103; United States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508, 511, 512;
Adams v. Murphy, 165 Fed. 304.
Nor do the facts stated in the bill of exceptions establish that the plaintiffs were "employees" within the
meaning of the statute. So far as appears, they were in
the position of independent contractors. The record do,,,,

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
514

Opinion of the Court.

not reveal to what extent, if at all, their services were
subject to the direction or control of the public boards or
officers engaging them. In each instance the performance
of their contract involved the use of judgment and discretion on their part and they were required to use their
best professional skill to bring about the desired result.
This permitted to them liberty of action which excludes
the idea of that control or right of control by the em.ployer which characterizes the relation of employer and
employee and differentiates the employee or servant' from
the independent contractor. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Bond, 240 U. S. 449, 456; Standard Oil
Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215, 227; and see Casement v.
Brown, 148 U. S. 615; Singer Mfg. Co. v. Rahn, 132 U. S.
518, 523.
We pass to the nmore difficult question whether Congress
had the constitutional power to impose the tax in question, and this must be answered by ascertaining whether
its effect is such as to bring it within the purview of those
decisions holding that the very nature of our constitutional system of dual sovereign governments is such as impliedly to prohibit the federal government from taxing
the instrumentalities of a state government, and in a
similar manner to limit the power of the states to tax the
instrumentalities of the federal government. See, as to
federal taxation on state instrumentalities, Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113; United States v. Railroad Co., 17
Wall. 322; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157
U. S. 429, 585, 586; Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S.
1; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; see cases holding that the Sixteenth Amendment did not extend the
taxing power to any new class of subjects, Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1; Peck & Co. v. Lowe,
247 U. S. 165, 172; Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189;
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245, 259. And, as to state taxation on federal instrumentalities, see McCulloch v. Mary-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

land, 4 Wheat. 316; Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie
County, 16 Pet. 435; The Banks v. The Mayor, 7. Wall.
16; Weston v. The City Council of Charleston,2 Pet. 449,
467; FarmersBank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516; Choctaw
& Gulf R. R. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292; Indian Oil Co.
v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257
U. S. 501.
Just what instrumentalities of either a state or the federal government are exempt from taxation by the other
canndt be stated in terms of universal application: But
this Court has repeatedly held that those agencies through
which either government immediately and directly exercises its sovereign powers, are immune from the taxing
power of the other. Thus the employment of officers who
are agents to administer its laws (Collector v. Day; Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, supra), its obligations sold to raise public funds (Weston v. The City Council of Charleston,supra; Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust
Co., supra), its investments of public funds in the securitiesof private corporations, for public -purposes (United
States v. Railroad Co., supra), surety bonds exacted by it
in the exercise of its police power (Ambrosini v. United
States, supra), are all so intimately connected with the
,necessary functions of government, as to fall within the
established exemption; and when the instrumentality is
of that character, the immunity extends not only to the
instrumentality itself but to income derived from it (Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co.; Gillespie v. Oklahoma,
supra,) and forbids an occupation tax imposed on its use.
Choctaw & Gulf R. R. Co. v. Harrison, supra; and see
/Jobbins v. Commissioners of Eria County, supra.
When, however, the question iA approached from the
other end of the scale, it is apparent that not every person who uses his .property or derives a profit, in his dealings with the government, may clothe himself with immunity from taxation on the theory that either he or his

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
514

Opinion of the Court.

property is an instrumentality of government within the
meaning of the rule. Thomson v. PacificRailroad,9 Wall.
579; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Baltimore
Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; Gromer v.
Standard Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362, 371; Fidelity &
Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania, 240 U. S. 319; Choctau,
0. & G. R. R. Co. v. Mackay, 256 U. S. 531.
As cases arise, lying between the two extremes, it becomes necessary to draw the line which separates those activities having some relation to government, which are
nevertheless subject to taxation, from those which are
immune. Experience has shown that there is no formula
by which that line may be plotted with precision in advance. But recourse may be had to the reason upon
which the rule rests, and which must be the guiding principle to control its operation. Its origin was due to the
essential requirement of our constitutional system that
the federal government must exercise its authority within
the territorial limits of the states; and it rests on the conviction that each government, in order that it may administer its affairs within its own sphere, must be left
free from undue interference by the other. McCulloch v.
Maryland, supra; Collector v. Day; Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, supra.
In a broad sense, the taxing power of either government, even when exercised in a manner admittedly necessary and proper, unavoidably has some effect upon the
other. The burden of federal taxation necessarily sets an
econonric limit to the practical operation of the taxing
power of the states, and vice versa. Taxation by either
the state or the federal government affects in some measure the cost of operation of the other.
But neither government may destroy the other nor
curtail in any substantial manner the exercise of its
powers. Hence the limitation upon the taxing power of
each, so far as it affects the other, must receive a practi-

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

cal construction which permits both to function with the
minimum of interference each with the other; and that
limitation cannot be so varied or extended as seriously to
impair either the taxing power of the government imposing the tax (South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S.
437, 461; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, at 172,) or the
appropriate exercise of the functions of the government
affected by it. Railroad Co. v. Peniston, supra, 31.
While it is evident that in one aspect the extent of the
exemption must finally depend upon the effect of the tax
upon the functions of the government alleged to be affected by it, still the nature of the governmental agencies
or the mode of their constitution may not be disregarded
in passing on the question of tax exemption; for it is obvious that an agency may be of such a character or so
intimately connected with the exercise of a power or the
performance of a duty by the one government, that any
taxation of it by the other would be such a direct interference with the functions of government itself as to be
plainly beyond the taxing power.
It is on this principle that, as we have seen, any taxation by one government of the salary of an officer of the
other, or the public securities of the other, or an agency
created and controlled by the other, exclusively to enable
it to perform a governmental function, (Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra,) is prohibited. But here the tax is imposed
on the income of one who is neither an officer nor an employee of government and whose only relation to it is
that of contract, under which there is an obligation to
furnish service, for practical purposes not unlike a contract to sell and deliver a commodity. The tax is imposed
without discrimination upon income whether derived
from services rendered to the state or services rendered to
private individuals. In such a situation it cannot be said
that the tax is imposed upon an agency of government
in any technical sense, and the tax itself cannot be deemed

METCALF & EDDY v. MITCHELL.
514

Opinion of the Court..

to be an interference with government, or an impairment
of the efficiency of its agencies in any substantial way.
Railroad Co. v. Peniston; Gromer v. Standard Dredging
Co.; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore; Fidelity &
Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. R. Co.
v. Mackey, supra.
As was said by this Court in Baltimore Shipbuilding Co.
v. Baltimore, supra, in holding that a state might tax the
interest of a corporation in a dry dock which the United
States had the right to use under a contract entered into
with the corporation:
"It seems to us extravagant to say that an independent
private corporation for gain created by a State, is exempt
from state taxatiori either in its corporate person, or its
property, because it is employed by the United States,
even if the work for which it is employed is important and
takes much of its time." (p. 382.)
And as was said in Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, in holding valid a state tax on premiums
collected by bonding insurance companies on surety bonds
required of United States officials:
"But mere contracts between private corporations and
the United States do not necessarily render the former essential government agencies and confer freedom from
state control." (p. 323.)
These statements we deem to be equally applicable to
private citizens engaged in the general practice of a profession or the conduct of a business in the course of which
they enter into contracts with government from which
they derive a profit. We do not suggest that there may
not be interferences with such a contract relationship by
means other than taxation which are prohibited. Railroad Co. v. Peniston, supra, at p. 36, recognizes that there
may. Nor are we to be understood as laying down any
rule that taxation might not affect agencies of this character in such a manner as directly to interfere with the

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Qpinion of the Court.

269 U. S.

functions of government and thus be held to be void. See
Railroad v. Peniston, supra, page 36; Farmers Bank v.
Minnesota, supra,p. 522; Choctaw & 'Gulf Railway Co. v.
Harrison,supra, p. 272.
But we do decide that one who is not an officer or employee of a state, does not establish exemption from federal income tax merely by showing that his income was
received as compensation for service rendered under a
contract with the state; and when we take the next step
necessary to a complete disposition of the question, and
inquire into the effect of the particular tax, on the functioning of the state government, we do not find that it
impairs in any substantial manner the ability of plaintiffs
in error to discharge their obligations to the state or the
ability of a state or its subdivisions to procure the services of private individuals to aid them in their undertakings. Cf. CentralPacific Railroadv. California,162 U. S.
91, "126. We therefore conclude that the tax in No. 183
was properly assessed.
No. 183, judgment affirmed.
No. 376, writ of error dismissed.

