OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Syllabus.

342 U. S.

CARSON, COMMISSIONER OF FINANCE & TAXATION, v. ROANE-ANDERSON COMPANY ET AL.
NO., 186.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
TENNESSEE.*

Argued December 5, 1951.-Decided January 7, 1952.
1. The Tennessee Retailers' Sales Tax Act imposes a sales tax on the
sale of goods within the State and a use tax on the use within the
State of goods purchased elsewhere. Respondents are private companies who are contractors for the Atomic Energy Commission
and vendors of those contractors who paid under protest sales taxes
and use taxes imposed under the Act on articles used in the performance of contracts with the Commission. Held: The challenged
taxes are prohibited by § 9 (b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946.
Pp. 233-236.
2. The contracts which the respondents have with the United States,
and the performance thereunder, are Commission "activities"

which § 9 (b) exempts from state taxation. Pp. 234-236.
192 Tenn. 150, 239 S. W. 2d 27, affirmed.

In suits brought by respondents to recover amounts
paid as state sales and use taxes and to enjoin future collections, the State Supreme Court held that the challenged taxes were prohibited by § 9 (b) of the Atomic
Energy Act of 1946. 192 Tenn. 150, 239 S. W. 2d 27.
This Court granted certiorari. 342 U. S. 847. Affirmed,
p. 236.
Allison B. Humphreys, Jr., Assistant Attorney General
of Tennessee, argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs were Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General, and
William F. Barry, Solicitor General.
*Together with No. 187, Carson, Commissioner of Finance & Taxation, v. Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp. et al., also un certiorari

to the same court.

CARSON v. ROANE-ANDERSON CO.
232

Opinion of the Court.

Oscar H.. Davis argued the cause for the United States,
respondent. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Slack
and Berryman Green.
S. Frank Fowler submitted on brief for respondents.
Smith Troy, 'Attorney General, and C. John Newlands,
Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief for the State of
Washington, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Retailers' Sales Tax Act of Tennessee, Tenn. Acts
1947, c. 3, imposes a sales tax on the sale of goods in Tennessee and a use tax on the use within the state of goods
purchased elsewhere. Tennessee collected these taxes
from respondents who paid them under protest and
then brought these suits to recover them and to enjoin
future collections. Two of the respondents are private
companies who are contractors for the Atomic Energy
Commission and who paid use taxes; two are merchants
who paid sales taxes on sales to those contractors and who
passed the taxes on to them. The use taxes and the Sales
taxes were on articles used by the contractors in the performance of their contracts with the Commission.
The Tennessee Supreme Court held by a divided vote
(192 Tenn. 150, 239 S. W. 2d 27) that the challenged
taxes, though not forbidden by the Constitution, were
prohibited by § 9 (b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946,
60 Stat. 765, 42 U. S. C. § 1809 (b). The cases are here
on certiorari. 342 U. S.847.
Sec. 9 (b) provides in part that "The Commission,
and the property, activities, and income of the Commission, are hereby expressly exempted from taxation in any
manner or form by any State, county, municipality, or
any subdivision thereof." The constitutional power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

Congress to protect any of its agencies from state taxation
(Pittman v. Home Owners' Corporation, 308 U. S. 21;
Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Co., 314 U. S. 95) has
long been recognized as applying to those with whom it
has made authorized contracts. See Thomson v. Pacific
R. Co., 9 Wall. 579, 588-589; James v. Dravo Contracting
Co., 302 U. S. 134, 160-161. Certainly the policy behind the power of Congress to create tax immunities does
not turn on the nature of the agency doing the work of
the Government. The power stems from the power to
preserve and protect functions validly authorized (Pittman v. Home Owners' Corp., supra, p. 33)-the power to
make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers vested in the Congress. U. S. Const.,
Art. I, § 8, cl. 18. Hence if the present contracts which
the respondent contractors have with the United States,
and the performance thereunder, are "activities" within
the meaning of § 9 (b) of the Act, the immunity is clear.
Our view is that they are and that the judgments below
must be affirmed.
Respondent Roane-Anderson manages the governmentowned town of Oak Ridge, Tennessee; Carbide and Carbon Chemicals operates the Oak Ridge plants for the
production of fissionable materials. Their contracts antedate the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, having been
originally entered into with the Manhattan District of
the Corps of Engineers. Pursuant to § 9 (a) of the
Act these contracts were transferred by Executive Order1 to the Commission. The question whether the
Commission should be empowered to employ private contractors in performance of its functions or whether the
Commission should itself be the entrepreneur was an
issue of national policy much discussed and debated at
the time the legislation was before the Congress. One
1 Executive

Order No. 9816, Dec. 31, 1946, 12 Fed. Reg. 37.

CARSON v. ROANE-ANDERSON CO.
232

Opinion of the Court.

measure, which had the backing of the War Department,
would have authorized the Commission to lean heavily2
on private enterprise for performance of its functions.
Another measure, originating in the Senate and after
extensive revisions becoming the Atomic Energy Act pf
1946, contained no provision authorizing the use of contractors to the extent here involved, required the Commission to produce its own fissionable materials in its
own plants by its own employees, and directed the Commission to terminate contracts previously made for the
production of fissionable materials. But that bill was
materially altered so as to adopt as the national policy
the use of "management contracts for the operation of
Government-owned plants so as to gain the full advantage of the- skill and experience of American industry,"'
Accordingly § 4 (c) (2) of the Act authorizes the Commission "to make, or to continue in effect, contracts
with persons obligating them to produce fissionable
material in facilities owned by the Commission." And
§ 9 (a) authorizes the transfer to the Commission of all
contracts concerning the production of fissionable material. The use of private contractors is therefore one of
the ways in which the Commission is authorized to man-.
age its affairs. Its activities may, in other words, be performed by it directly or through the agencies of private
enterprise.
Congress uses the word "activities" in various sections
of the Act, and seems each time to give it a broad sweep.
The Congressional or Joint Committee constituted under
§ 15 is directed to study "the activities" of the Commission. The reports which the Commission is directed to
submit to Congress pursuant to § 17 concern its "activiSee H. 11. Rep. No. 1186, 79th Cong., 1st Sess.
3 See S. 1717 reprinted in Hearings before the Senate Special Cornmittee on Atomic Energy, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 1-9.
4 S. Rep. No. 1211, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 15.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

ties."

342 U. S.

Section 9 (b) authorizes the Commission to make

payments to state and local governments in lieu of property taxes in those areas "in which the activities of the
Commission are carried on and in which the Commission
has acquired property" previously subject to local taxation. In none of these sections do we find any suggestion that "activities" is used in a narrow sense to describe
less than all of the functions of the Commission. The
meaning of "activities" as applied either to an individual
or to a government agency may be broad enough to include what is done through independent contractors as
well as through agents. Certainly where the pattern of
conduct viskialized by the Act is the use of independent
contractors or agents from the field of private enterprise,
the inference is strong that "activities" means all authorized methods of performing the governmental function.
We find no contrary evidence from the legislative history.
In view of this conclusion we find it unnecessary to
reach the problems of implied constitutional immunity
involved in Jame8 v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra, and
Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

