.OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Syllabus.

CARLSON

ET AL.

342 U. S.

v. LANDON, DISTRICT

DIRECTOR OF IMMIGRATION AND
NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
NO. 35.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 26, 1951.-Decided March 10, 1952.
1. Under § 20 (a) of the Immigration Act, as amended by § 23 of
the Internal Security Act, the Attorney General may, in his discretion, hold in custody without bail, pending determination as
to their deportability, aliens who are members of the Communist
Party of the United States, when there is reasonable cause to
believe that their release on bail would endanger the safety and
welfare of the United States. Pp. 526-547.
2. The lack of a clause in the Constitution specifically empowering
such action does not render Congress impotent to require the
expulsion of resident alien Communists. Pp. 533-537.
(a) So long as aliens fail to obtain and maintain citizenship by
naiuralization, 'they remain subject to the plenary power of
Congress to expel them under the sovereign right to determine what
noncitizens shall be permitted to remain within our borders.
P. 534.
(b) The doctrines and practices of Communism teach the use
of force to achieve political control clearly enough to give constitutional basis, according to any theory of reasonableness or arbitrariness, for ongress to expel known alien Communists. Pp.
534-536.
3. Under orders from the Acting Commissioner of Immigration,
certain aliens were arrested under warrants issued after enactment
of the Internal Security Act, charging them with being members
of the Communist Party and directing that they be held in custody pending determination of deportability. They petitioned for

habeas corpus. Respondent filed returns alleging that there was
reasonable cause to believe that their release would endanger the
welfare and safety of the United States. Later he filed affidavits
that the Service had evidence indicating that each petitioner was
*Together with No. 136, Butterfield, Director of Immigration and
Naturalization Service, v. Zydok, on certiorari to the United States
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Syllabus.

at the time of arrest a member of the Communist Party and had
since 1930 participated, or was then actively participating, in the
Party's indoctrination of others to the prejudice of the public
-interest. Held:
(a) The refusal of bail in these cases was not arbitrary or
capricious or an abuse of power and did not violate the Due
Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Pp. 537-542.
(1) The discretion as to bail vested in the Attorney General
by the Internal Security Act was broad enough to justify peti"
tioners' detention without bail as a menace to the public interest.
Pp. 537-541.
. (2) There is no denial of due process under the
Fifth Amendment in the detention of alien Communists without bail, pending
determination of deportability, where there is reasonable cause
to believe that their release on bail would endanger the safety
and welfare of the United States. Pp. 541-542.
(b) The'delegation to the Attorney General of discretionary
authority to detain such aliens without bail pending deportation
hearings does not constitute an unlawful delegation of legislative
power or violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment,
because the statute contains definite legislative standards for deportation and such authority is to be exercised within the framework of the Subversive Activities Control Act to guard against Communist activities pending deportation hearings. Pp. 542-544.
(c) The Eighth Amendment does not require that bail be allowed
in the circumstances of these cases. Pp. 544-546.
4. Prior to enactment of the Internal Security Act, an alien Communist was arrested under a warrant charging that he was subject
to deportation as .an alien member of an organization advocating
the violent overthrow of the Government; but he was releas ed on
bail. After the effective date of the Act, he was again taken into
custody under the same warrant and held without bail under an
order from the Acting Commissioner of Immigration, based on §§ 22
and 23 of the Internal Security Act. Held: He must be released
unless, within a reasonable time in the discretion of the court, heis rearrested under a new warrant. Pp. 531, 546-547.
t87 F. 2d 991, affirmed.
187 F. 2d 802, judgment'vacated and cause remanded.

No. 35. In habeas corpus proceedings, a district court
held that respondent had not abused his discretion in
)rdering petitioners held without bail pending deporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

tion hearings. 94 F. Supp. 18. The Court of Appeals
reversed. 186 F. 2d 183. On rehearing and after introduction of certain evidence, the district court again sustained petitioners' detention without bail. The Court of
Appeals affirmed. 187 F. 2d 991. This Court granted
certiorari. 342 U. S. 807. Affirmed, p. 547.
No. 136. In a habeas corpus proceeding, the district
court sustained detention of respondent without bail
pending determination of deportability. The Court of
Appeals reversed. 187 F. 2d 802. This Court granted
certiorari. 342 U. S. 810. Judgment vacated and cause
remanded, p. 547.
John T. McTernan argued the cause and John W.
Porter, Ben Margolis, Carol King and A. L. Wirin filed a
brief for petitioners in No. 35.
John F. Davis argued the cause for petitioner in No.
136 and respondent in No. 35. With him on the briefs
were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Mclnerney and Beatrice Rosenberg.
Carol King argued the cause for respondent in No. 136.
With her on the brief was Alan N. Brown.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases present a narrow question with several related issues. May the Attorney General, as the executive
head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,'
after taking into custody active alien Communists on warrants,' charging either membership in a group that ad' Reorganization Plan No. V, 54 Stat. 1238.
2 Sec. 19 of an Act to regulate the immigration of aliens to, and
the residence of aliens in, the United States, 39 Stat. 889, February
5, 1917, as amended 8 U. S. C. § 155:
". .. any alien who shall have entered or who shall be found in the
United States in violation of this chapter, or in violation of any
other law of the United States; . . . shall, upon the warrant of the
Attorney General, be taken into custody and deported. . ....

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

vocates the overthrow by force of this Government I or
inclusion in &ny prohibited classes of aliens,' continue
them in custody without bail, at his discretion pending
determination as to their deportability, under § 23 of the
3Act of October 16, 1918, 40 Stat. 1012, as amended, 8 U. S. C.
(1946 ed.) § 137, see note 15, infra:
"(c) Aliens who believe in, advise, advocate, or teach, or who are
members of or affiliated with any organization, association, society,
or group, that believes in,advises, advocates, or teaches: (1) the
overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the United
States or of all forms of law. ..."
4 Internal Security Act of 1950, September 23, 1950, § 22, subsection 4 (a), amending the Act of October 16, 1918, see 8 U. S. C.
§ 137:
"Any alien who was at the time of entering the United States, or
has been at any time thereafter, a member of any one of the classes
of aliens enumerated in section 1 (1) or section 1 (3) of this Act. or
a member of any one of the classes of aliens enumerated in
section 1 (2) of this Act, shall, upon the warrant of the Attorney
General, be taken into custody and deported in the manner provided
in the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917. The provisions of this
section shall be applicable to the classes of aliens mentioned in this
Act, irrespective of the time of their entry into the United States."
Id., § 22:
"That any alien who is a member of any one of the following
classes shall be excluded from admission into the United States:
"(1) Aliens who seek to enter the United States whether solely,
principally, or incidentally, to engage in activities which would be
prejudicial to the public interest, or would endanger the welfare or
safety of the United States;
"(2) Aliens who, at any time, shall be or shall have been members
of any of the following classes:
"(A) Aliens who are anarchists;
"(B) Aliens who advocate or teach, or who are members of or
affiliated with any drganization that advocates or teaches, opposition
to all organized government;
"(C) Aliens who are members of or affiliated with (i) the' Communist Party of the United States, (ii) any other totalitarian party
of the 'United States, (iii) the Communist Political Association, (iv)
the Communist or 6ther totalitarian party of any State of the United
States, of any foreign state; or of any political or geographical sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

Internal Security Act? 5 Differing views of the Courts
of Appeals led us to grant certiorari. 342 U. S. 807,
810.
I. Facts.-The four petitioners in case No. 35 were
arrested under warrants, issued after the enactment of
the Internal Security Act of 1950, charging each with
being an alien who was a member of the Communist
Party of the United States." The warrants directed
that they be held in custody,'7 pending determination
division of any foreign state; (v) any section, subsidiary, branch,
affiliate, or subdivision of any. such association or party; or (vi) the
direct predecessors or successors of any such association or party,
regardless of what name such group or organization may have used,
may now bear, or may hereafter adopt;
"(F) Aliens who advocate or teach or who are members of or
affiliated with any organization that advocates or teaches (i) the
overthrow by force or violence or other unconstitutional means of.
the Government of the United States or of all forms of law; ....
"(3) Aliens with respect to whom there is reason to believe that
such aliens would, after entry, be likely to (A) engage in activities
which would be prohibited by the laws of the United States relating
to espionage, sabotage, public disorder, or in other activity subversive to the national security; (B) engage in any activity a purpose of which is the opposition to, or the control or overthrow of,
the Government of the United States by force, violence, or other
unconstitutional means; or (C) organize, join, affiliate with, or participate in the activities of any organization which is registered or
required to be registered under section 7 of the Subversive Activities
Control Act of 1950."
Internal Security Act of 1950, § 23:
". .. Pending final determination of the deportability of any alien
taken into custody under warrant of the Attorney General,' such alien
may, in the discretion of the Attorney General (1) be continued in
custody; or (2) be released under bond in the amount of not less
than $500, with security approved by the Attorney General; or (3)
be released on conditional parole. . ....
6See § 22 (1), Internal Security Act, note 4, supra.
7 See note 5, supra.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

of deportability.8 Petitions for habeas corpus were
promptly filed alleging that the detention without bond
was in violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment' and the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and that § 20 of the Immigration Act, as amended, was also unconstitutional. See
note 5, 8upra. The allegation appears below."0
Respondent filed returns defending his orders of detention on the ground that there was reasonable cause to
believe that petitioners' release would be prejudicial to
the public interest and would endanger the welfare and
safety of the United States. These returns were countered by petitioners with allegations of their many years'
residence spent in this country without giving basis for
fear of action by them inimical to the public welfare
during the pendency of their deportation proceedings,
8Before the passage of the Internal Security Act the four petition-

ers had been arrested and admitted to bail on warrants charging
membership in groups advocating the overthrow of the Government
by force and violence. In our view of the issues now here, these
former happenings are immaterial to our consideration of this writ
of certiorari.
9 "Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed,

nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted."
10"That section 20 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
as amended by section 23 of Public Law 831, 81st Congress (commonly known as Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950) and
section 1 of the Act of October 16, 1918 (8 U. S. C. 137), as
amended, are, and each of them is, unconstitutional and void in that
they deprive persons, including petitioner, of liberty and property
without due process of law, in violation of the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States in that they abridge the freedom of persons, including petitioner, of speech, the press and assembly
and the right to petition the government for redress of grievances,
in violation of the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and in that they purport to authorize indefinite detention of
persons, including petitioner, without bond prior to final determination of deportability."

OCTOBER TERM, 19 1
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

their integration into community life through marriage
and family connections, and their meticulous adherence
to the terms of previous bail, allowed under a former
warrant charging deportability. See note 8, supra. On
consideration of these undenied allegations, the trial court
determined that the Director had not been shown to have
abused his discretion.11 This order was reversed on the
ground that the Director "must state some fact upon
which a reasonable person could logically conclude that
the denial of bail is required to protect the country or to
secure the alleged alien's presence for deportation should
an order to that effect be the result of the hearing." 12
On rehearing, the Director made allegation, supported
by affidavits, that the Service's dossier of each petitioner
contained evidence indicating to him that each was at
the time of arrest a member of the Communist Party
of the United States and had since 1930 participated or
was then activey participating in the Party's indoctrination of others to the prejudice of the public interest.
There was no denial of these allegations by any of the petitioners, except Hyun, or any assertion that any of them
had completely severed all Communist affiliations or connections. 3 As to Hyun the denial was formal and did not
include any affidavit denying the facts stated in the Director's affidavit. As the allegations are set out by the
Court of Appeals in the carefully detailed opinion of
Circuit Judge Stephens, we refrain from any further re1

Carlson v. Landon, 186 F. 2d 183, 186; Stevenson v. Landon,

186 F. 2d 190.
12 Id., at 189.
13 28 U. S. C. § 2248:
"The allegations of a return to the writ of habeas corpus or of
an answer to an order to show cause in a habeas corpus proceeding, if
not traversed, shall be accepted as true except to the extent that the
judge finds from the evidence that they are not true."

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

statement here. 1'

The Court of Appeals affirmed the Dis-

trict Court's determination that there was substantial
evidence to support the discretion exercised in denying
bail.
Respondent Zydok, in case No. 136, was arrested in
August 1949 under a recent warrant charging that he
was subject to deportation as an alien with membership
in an organization advocating the violent overthrow of
the Government. Act of October 16, 1918, as amended,
8 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 137. At that time he was released
on $2,000 bail. Later a deportation hearing was held by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service but this
Court's decision in Wong Yang Sung v. McGrath, 339
U. S. 33, necessitated a second deportation hearing.
After the effective date, September 23, 1950, of the Internal Security Act of 1950, respondent was again taken
into custody by petitioner on the 1949 warrant, pursuant
to radiogram direction from the Acting Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization referring to §20 of the
Immigration Act of 1917, as amended by §23 of the Internal Security Act. The respondent was held without
bail by petitioner under an order from the Acting Commissioner of Immigration. The rearrest was based on
§ 22 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 which provides
for the deportation of aliens who are members of or affiliated with the Communist Party. 8 U. S. C. (Supp. IV)
§ 137.
Thereupon respondent filed a petition for writ of habeas
corpus in the United States District Court for the Easter'
District of Michigan, challenging the validity of his detention without bail. The District Court found that petitioner was an alien and had been and was on arrest a
member of the Communist Party. The court determined
14

Carlson v. Landon, 187 F. 2d 991.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

that there had been no abuse of administrative discretion
in refusing bail and denied the petition for habeas corpus."
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed
the District Court, holding that in determining denial
of bail the Attorney General could not rest on membership alone in the Communist Party but was under the
duty to consider also the likelihood that the alien would
appear when ordered to do so under the circumstances
as developed in the habeas corpus hearing. The court
thought the failure of the Attorney General to allow bail
was an abuse of discretion.
That court agreed that the District Court was correct
in finding that Zydok was a member of the Communist
Party and had been in 1949 the financial secretary of its
Hamtramck Division. The respondent's testimony justifies the District Court's finding set out in the margin."6

The record shows other information in the files of the
Attorney General, such as attendance at closed meetings
of the Party and the Michigan State Convention. The
opinion succinctly sets out the facts concerning respondent's integration into American life. We adopt that
statement." It was said:
"Discretion does not mean decision upon one particular fact or set of facts. It means rather a just
,5 Quite properly, we think, no question is raised as to the applicability of the Internal Security Act amendments relating to membership in the Communist Party and allowance of bail, notes 4 anu 5,
supra, todetention under a warrant based on 8 U. S. C. (1946 ed.)
§ 137 (c), note 3, supra. Cf. Internal Security Act, 64 Stat. 987,
Title I, § 2.
16 "That the petitiorfer, while under cross-examination by the Chief
Assistant United States Attorney, was a consistently evasive witness
and his evasive demeanor in testifying in relation to his communistic
activities convinces this Court that he is knowingly and wilfully
participating in the Communist movement."
17 187 F. 2d at 803:
"Appellant was seventeen years.'of age when he arrived in this
country from Poland in 1913. Since then he has lived continuously

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

and proper decision in view of all the attending circumstances. The Styria v. Morgan, 186 U. S. 1, 9,
22 S.Ct. 731, 46 L. Ed. 1027. There are many circumstances which involve decision." 187 F. 2d 802,
803.
The Court of Appeals concluded:
"We think that a fair consideration of the factors
above set out in their aggregate require that appol",
lant should have been granted bail in some reasonable amount. This view is more nearly in accordance
with the spirit of our institutions as it relates even
to those who seek protection from the laws which
they incongruously seek to destroy. See Carlson v.
Landon, Dist. Director, 9 Cir., 186 F. 2d 183; United
States ex rel. Potash v. Dist. Director, 2 Cir., 169 F.
2d 747, 752." Id., at 804.
II. The Issues.-Petitioners in No. 35, the Carlson
case, and respondent in No. 136, the Zydok case, seek respectively reversal or affirmance principally on the same
grounds. It is urged that the denial of bail to each was
arbitrary and capricious, a violation of the Fifth Amendin the State of Michigan. He has been a waiter in an English
speaking restaurant in Hamtramck, Mich., for seventeen years
and for a great part of that time he was head waiter. He owns his
own home in Detroit and has a family consisting of his wife, two sons,
a daughter, and five grandchildren. Both sons served in the armed

services of the United States in World War II. His children and
grandchildren were born in this country and his daughter married
here. During World War II while appellant was head waiter in
the restaurant he sold about $50,000.00 worth of U. S. War Bonds
and during that period he donated blood on seven occasions to tle
Red Cross for the United States Army.
"Before his second arrest and while he was at large on bail he
reported regularly to the Department of Immigration and Naturalization Service. The record fails to disclose that he has violated any
law or that he is engaged or is likely to engage in, any subversive
activities."
. 672627 0-52--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

ment; that where there is no evidence to justify a fear of
unavailability for the hearings or for the carrying out of a
possible judgment of deportation, denial of bail under the
circumstances of these cases is an abuse of discretion and
violates a claimed right to reasonable bail secured by the
Eighth Amendment to the Constitution. Zydok urges,
also, that there was an abuse of discretion in rearresting
him, when there was no change of circumstances, after
his previous release under bond on the same warrant.
There are other minor contentions as to irregularities in
the proceedings that appear to us immaterial to our consideration of these cases.
The basis for the deportation of presently undesirable
aliens resident in the United States is not questioned and
requires no reexamination. When legally admitted, they
have come at the Nation's invitation, as visitors or permanent residents, to share with us the opportunities and
satisfactions of our land. As such visitors and foreign
nationals they are entitled in their persons and effects
to the protection of our laws. So long, however, as aliens
fail to obtain and maintain citizenship by naturalization,
they remain subject to the plenary power of Congress to
expel them underi the sovereign right to determine what
noncitizens shall be permitted to remain within our
borders. 8
Changes in world politics and in our internal economy
bring legislative adjustments affecting the rights of various classes of aliens to admission and deportation.19 The
18Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S.651, 659; Fong Yue
Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.698, 707; Bugajewitz v. Adams, 228
U. S.585; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259,U. S. 276, 280; United States
v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 318; Eichenlaub v.
Shaughnessy, 338 U. S. 521, 528; III Hackworth's Digest of International Law 725 (1942).
19 For example compare Act of December 17, 1943, 57 Stat. 600,
with Act of May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58.'

UARILSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

passage of the Internal Security Act of 1950 marked such
a change of attitude toward alien members. of the Communist Party of the United States. Theretofore there
was a provision for the deportation of alien anarchists
and other aliens, who are or were members of organizations devoted to the overthrow by force and violence of
the Government of the United States, but the Internal
Security Act made Communist membership alone of aliens
a sufficient ground for deportation." The reasons for the
exercise of power are summarized in Title I of the Internal Security Act. It is sufficient here to print § 2 (15).2"
We have no doubt that the doctrines and practices of
See note 4, supra. The extension of the proscription of residence
to aliens believing in the overthrow of Government by force or
violence has been progressive, as can be readily observed by following
the successive enactments of laws to regulate the residence of aliens
since the Act of February 5, 1917, 39 Stat. 874. See 8 U. S. C. §§ 137
and 155.
21 "(15)
The Communist movement in the United States is an
organization numbering thousands of adherents, rigidly and ruthlessly disciplined. Awaiting and seeking to advance a moment when
the United States may be so far extended by foreign engagements,
so far divided in counsel, or so far in industrial or financial straits,
that overthro -iof the Government of the United States by force and
violence may seem possible of achievement, it seeks converts far and
wide by an extensive system of schooling and indoctrination. Such
preparations by Communist organizations in other countries have
aided in supplanting existing governments. The Communist organization in the United States, pursuing its stated objectives, the recent
successes of Communist methods in other countries, and the nature
and control of the world Communist movement itself, present a clear
and present danger to the security of the United States and to the
existence of free American institutions, and make it necessary that
Congress, in order to provide for the common defense, to preserve
the sovereignty of the United States as an independent nation, and'
to guarantee to each State a republican form of government, enact
appropriate legislation recognizing the existence of such world-wide
conspiracy and designed to prevent it from accomplishing its purpose
in the United States."
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1151.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

Communism clearly enough teach the use of force to
achieve political control to give constitutional basis, according to any theory-of reasonableness or arbitrariness,
for Congress to expel known alien Communists under its
power to regulate the exclusion, admission and expulsion
of aliens.'
Congress had before it evidence of resident
aliens' leaLership in Communist domestic activities sufficient to furnish reasonable ground for action against alien
resident Communists. The bar against the admission of
Communists cannot be differentiated as a matter of power
from that against anarchists upheld unanimously half a
century ago in the exclusion of Turner.2 3 Since "[i]t is
thoroughly established that Congress has power to order
the deportation of aliens whose presence in the country it
deems hurtful," 2 the fact that petitioners, and respondent
Zydok, were made deportable after entry is immaterial.
They are deported for what they are now, not for what
they were.25 Otherwise, when an alien once legally became a denizen of this country he could not be deported.
22 1 Trotsky, History of the Russian Revolution, 106, 120, 141, 144,
151; Lenin, Collected Works (1930), Vol. XVIII, pp. 279-280; Lenin,

The State and Revolution, August, 1917, Foreign Languages Publishing House, Moscow (1949), 28, 30, 33. Translations furnished
indicate the same attitude 'on the part of Stalin. Colled-d Works,
Vol. I, pp. 131-137, 185-205, 241-246; Vol. III, pp. 367-370. And
see Leites, The Operational Code of the 'Politburo (1950), c. xiii,
"Violence." See also Immigration and Naturalization Systems of
the United States, S. Rep. No. 1515, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., Senate
Committee on the Judiciary, Part 3, Subversives, c. I, B, Alien
Control; c. II, C, Deportation of Subversive Aliens.
23 Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S. 279; Schneiderman v. United States,
320 U. S. 118, MR. JUSTicE DOUGLAS concurring at 165.
24
Bugajewitz v. Adams, 228 U. S. 585, 591; Ng Fung Ho v. White,

259 U. S. 276, 280.

Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 39:
"[Congress] was, in the exercise of its unquestioned right, only seeking
to rid the country of persons who had shown by their career that
25

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

for any reason of which he had not been forewarned at the
time of entry. Mankind is not vouchsafed sufficient foresight to justify requiring a country to permit its continuous occupation in peace -orwar by legally admitted aliens,
even though they never violate the laws in effect at their
entry. The protection of citizenship is open to those who
qualify for its privileges. The lack of a clause in the Constitution specifically empowering such action has never
been held to render Congress impotent to deal as a sovereign with resident aliens.26
III. Constitutionality.-A.Arbitrary, capricious, abuse
of discretion.-The power to expel aliens, being essentially a power of the political branches of government, the
legislative and executive, may be exercised entirely
through executive officers, "with such opportunity for
judicial review of their action as Congress may see fit to
authorize or permit." This power is, of course, subject
to judicial intervention under the "paramount law of the
Constitution."2 7
Deportation is not a criminal proceeding and has never
been held to be punishment. No jury sits. No judicial
Since deporreview is guaranteed by the Constitution.'
tation is a particularly drastic remedy where aliens have
their continued presence here would not make for the safety or welfare of society." See also Eichenlaub v. Shaughnessy, 338 U. S. 521,
530. Compare Harisiades v. Shaughnessy, 342 U. S. 580, decided
today.

United States v. Curtiss-WrightExport Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 318.
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 713-715, 728;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651, 659; The Japanese
Immigrant Case, 189 U. S.86, 97; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S.272;
Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S.228, 231.
A claim of citizenship has protection. Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259
U. S.276.
28 Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S.279, 290-291; Zakonaite v. Wolf,
226 U. S.272, 275; Bugajeivitz v. Adams, 228 U. S.585, 591; Mahler
26

27

v. Eby, 264 U. S.32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

become absorbed into our community life, ' Congress has
been careful to provide for full hearing by the Immigration and Naturalization Service before deportation. Such
legislative provision requires that those charged with that
responsibility exercise it in a manner consistent with due
process?
Detention is necessarily a part of this deportation procedure. Otherwise aliens arrested for deportation would have opportunities to hurt the United States
during the pendency of deportation proceedings. Of
course purpose to injure could not be imputed generally
to all aliens subject to deportation, so discretion was
placed by the 1950 Act in the Attorney General to detain
aliens without bail, as set out in note 5, supra.31
The change in language seems to have originated in
H. R. 10, 81st Cong., 1st Sess., introduced by Representative Sam Hobbs of Alabama on January 3, 1949. It was
2 Fong Haw Tan v. Phelan, 333 U. S. 6, 10; Jordan v. De George,
341 U. S. 223, 231.
30 The Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86; Vajtauer v. Commissioner, 273 U. S. 103.
3' The former provision read as follows:
Pending the final disposal of the case of any alien so taken
into custody, he may be -released under a bond in the penalty of not
less than $500 with security approved by the Attorney General, conditioned that such alien shall be produced when required for a hearing
or hearings in regard to the charge upon which he has been taken
into custody, and for deportation if he shall be found to be unlawfully
within' the United States." 8 U. S. C. (1946 ed.) § 156.
On December 7, 1951, at the request of this Court, the Government
furnished us a list of the Bail or Detention Status, as of the period just
prior to December 7, of deportation cases, involving subversive
charges, pending on the date of the enactment of the Internal Security
Act, September 23, 1950. The list indicates that the modest bonds
or personal recognizances of the far larger part of the aliens remained
unchanged after the bond amendment to the Immigration Act. Of
those detained without bond on order of the Service, the courts have
released all but a few. It is quite clear from the list that detention
without.bond has been the exception.

CARLSON v. LANDON..
524

Opinion of the Court.

intended to clarify the procedure in dealing with deportees
and to "expressly authorize the Attorney General, in his
discretion, to hold arrested aliens in custody." " The
need for clarification arose from varying interpretations of
the authority to grant bail under the former bail provision.
Note 31, supra. In Prentis v. Manoogian, 16 F. 2d 422,
424, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit had
held that by the earlier provision "Congress intended to
grant to the alien a right, and that its failure to follow
with some such phrase as 'at the discretion of the com,missioner' vests the discretion to avail himself of the opportunity afforded in the alien, and not the discretion to
allow bail in the commissioner or director." On the other
hand in United States ex rel. Zapp v. District Director,
120 F. 2d 762, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit construed the provision to the contrary. It said:
"The natural interpretation of the language used,
that the alien 'may be released under a bond,' would
indicate that the release is discretionary with the Attorney General; and that appears to be borne out
by other provisions of this section, as well as other
sections of the immigration laws, where the choice
of words appears to have significance." P. 765.
In the later case of United States ex rel. Potash v. District
Director, 169 F. 2d 747, the same court applied its Zapp
opinion to explain that the Service's discretion as to bail
was not untrammeled but subject to judicial review.3 It
32

H. R. Rep. No. 1192, 81st Cong., 1st Sess., p. 6; S. Rep. No.
2239, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 5.
31 169 F. 2d at 751:
"The discretion of the Attorney General which we held to exist in the
Zapp case is interpreted as one which is to be reasonably exercised
upon a consideration of such factors, among others, as the probability
of the alien being found deportable, the seriousness of the charge
against him, if proved, the danger to the public safety of his presence
within the community, and the alien's availability for subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

was in the light of these cases that Congress inserted in
the bail provisions the phrase "in the discretion of the
Attorney General," the lack of which very phrase the
Manoogian case held made bail a right of the detained
alien. The present statute does not grant bail as a matter of right.
The Government does not urge that the Attorney General's discretion is not subject to any judicial review,
but merely that his discretion can be overturned only on
a showing of clear abuse." We proceed on the basis suggested by the Government. It is first to be observed
-that the language of the reports is emphatic in explaining Congress' intention to make the Attorney General's
exercise of discretion presumptively correct and unassailable except for abuse. We think the discretion reposed
in the Atto-rney General is at least as great as that found
by the Second Circuit in the Potash case, supra,"to be in
him under the former bail provision. It can only be
proceedings if enlarged on bail. However, in any consideration of his
denial of bail it should always be borne in mind that the court's
opinion as to whether the alien should be admitted to bail can only
override that of the Attorney General where the alien makes a clear
and convincing showing that the decision against him was without a
reasonable foundation." See U. S. ex rel. Doyle v. District Director,
169 F. 2d 753; U. S. ex rel. Pirinsky v. Shaughnessy, 177 F. 2d 708;
U. S. ex rel. De Geronimi v. Shaughnessy, 187 F. 2d 896. (This is the
only case from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals since the Internal
Security Act. It leaves open the question of the reviewability of the
Attorney General's action under that Act.)
3 The proposed bills at one time contained a provision:
."(f) No -alien detained under any provision of law relating to the
exclusion or expulsion of aliens shall, prior to an unreviewable order
discharging him. from custody, be released by any court, on bond or
otherwise, except pursuant to the order of a Federal court composed
of three judges." S. Rep. No. 2239, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3. This
was introduced to allow for possible release from custody pending
deportation. hearings. Id., at p. 9. The clause did not survive.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

overridden where it is clearly shown that it "was without
a reasonable foundation."
The four petitioners in the Carlson case were active iri
Communist work. In the Zydok case the only evidence
is membership in the Party, attendance at closed sessions
and the holding of the office of financial secretary of its
Hamtramck Division. This evidence goes beyond unexplained membership and shows a degree, minor perhaps in Zydok's case, of participation in Communist
activities. As the purpose of the Internal Security Act
to deport all alien Communists as a menace to the security of the United States is established by the Internal Security Act itself, Title I, § 2, we conclude that
the discretion as to bail in the Attorney General was
certainly broad enough to justify his detention of all these
parties without bail as a menace to the public interest.
As all alien Communists are deportable, like Anarchists,
because of Congress' understanding of their attitude
toward the use of force and violence in such a constitutional democracy as ours to accomplish their political
aims, evidence of membership plus personal activity in
supporting and extending the Party's philosophy concerning violence gives adequate ground for detention. It
cannot be expected that the Governnient should be required in addition to show specific acts of sabotage or
incitement to subversive action. Such an exercise of
discretion is well within that heretofore approved in
Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U. S. 537, 541.11 There is no
8 Even though we also take into consideration the factor of probable availability for trial, which we do not think is of great significance
in cases involving security from Communist activities of.alien Communists, the past record of these aliens is far from decisive against
the Attorney General's action. The Internal Security Act made
membership sufficient for deportation and set up a procedure that
could be carried but. § 22 (2) (C), note 4, supra, and § 23. Deportation became more likely for alien Communists by these amendments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

evidence or contention that all persons arrested as deportable under § 22 of the Internal Security Act, note 4, supra,
for Communist membership are denied bail. In fact, a
report filed with this Court by the Department of Justice
in ,this case at our request shows allowance of bail in
the large majority of cases. The refusal of bail in these
cases is not arbitrary or capricious or an abuse of power.
There is no denial of the due process of the Fifth Amendment under circumstances where there is reasonable apprehension of hurt from aliens charged with a philosophy
of violence against this Government.
B. DelegatioA of Legislative Power.-This leaves for
consideration the constitutionality of this delegation of
authority. We consider first the objection to the alleged
unbridled delegation of legislative power in that the Attorney General is left without standards to determine
when to admit to bail and when to detain. It is familiar
law that in such an examination the entire Act is to be
looked at and the meaning of the words determined by
their surroundings and connections. Congress can only
legislate so far ds i§ reasonable and practicable, and
must leave to executive officers the authority to accomplish its purpose." Congress need not make specific
standards for each subsidiary executive action in carrying out a policy." The bail provision applies to many
3 Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United

States, 204 U. S. 364, 386; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506; PanamaRefiningCo. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 421:
"-The Constitution has never been regarded as denying to the Congress the necessary resources of flexibility and practicality, which will
enable it to perform its function in laying down policies and establishing standards, while leaving to selected instrumentalities the making of subordinate rules within prescribed limits and the determination of facts to which the policy as declared by the legislature is to
apply."
3
7Waymdn v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 43-48; St. Louis, I. Ml. & S.
R.Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 286; Intermountain Rate Cases, 234

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

classes of deportable aliens other than those named in
the classes listed in § 22 of the Internal Security Act.
See note 4, supra.1 A wide range of discretion in the
Attorney General as to bail is required to meet the varying situations arising from the many aliens in this
country.39
The policy and standards as to what aliens are subject
to deportation are, in general, clear and definite. 8
U. S. C. §§ 137 and 155. Specifically when dealing with
alien Communists, as in these cases, the legislative standard for deportation is definite. See notes 3 and 4, supra.
In carrying out that policy the Attorney General is not
left with untrammeled discretion as to bail. Courts review his determination. Hearings are had, and he must
justify his refusal of bail by reference to the legislative
scheme to eradicate the evils of Communist activity.
The legislative judgment of evils calling for the 1950
U. S. 476, 486-489; Fahey v. Mallonee, 332 U. S. 245, 249. See
Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, 424-425:
"The essentials of the legislative function are the determination of the
legislative policy and its formulation and promulgation as a defined
and binding rule of conduct . . . . These essentials are preserved
when Congress has specified the basic conditions of fact upon whose
existence or occurrence, ascertained from relevant data by a designated administrative agency, it directs that its statutory command
shall be effective. It is no objection that the determination of facts
and thd inferences to be drawn from them in the light of the statutory
standards and declaration of policy call for the exercise of judgment,
and for the formulation of subsidiary administrative policy within the
prescribed statutory framework."
3 Any alien becoming a public charge within five years of entry
may be subject to deportation. Likewise any alien sentenced more
than once for any crime involving moral turpitude, and certain illegal
entrants. See 8 U. S. C. § 155.
39 Approximately 85,000,000 people, citizens and aliens, are said to
have crossed our borders in the 1949 fiscal year. Some many times.
Five million, aliens are reported to have registered under the Alien
Registration Act of 1940. S. Rep. No. 1515, pp. 630-631, supra, n. 22.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

amendments to deportation legislation is set out in the
introductory sections of the Subversive Activities Control
Act.' So far as pertinent to these proceedings, the new
legislation was designed to eliminate the subversive activities of resident aliens who seek to inculcate the doctrine of force and violence into the political philosophy
of the American people. To this end provision was made
for the detention and deportation of certain noncitizens,
including members of the Communist Party. When in
the judgment of the Attorney General an alien Communist may so conduct himself pending deportation hearings
as to aid in carrying out the objectives of the world communist movement, that alien may be detained. Compare
Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S.414, and Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S.503, 515. This is a permissible delegation of legislative power because the executive judgment
is limited by adequate standards. The authority to detain without bail is to be exercised within the framework
of the Subversive Activities Control Act to guard against
Communist activities pending deportation hearings. Cf.
Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S.32, 40. We do not see that such
-discretion violates the Due Process Clause of- the Fifth
Amendment.
C. Violation of Eighth Amendment.-The contention
is also advanced that the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution, note 9, supra, compels the allowance of bail in a
reasonable amount. We have in the preceding sections of
this opinion set out why thisrefusal of bail is not an abuse
of power; arbitrary or capricious, and why the delegation
of discretion to the Attorney General is not unconstitutional. Here we meet the argument that the Constitution requires by the Eighth Amendment, note 9, supra,
the same reasonable bail for alien Communists under deportation charges as it accords citizens charged with bail- See for example § 2 (15), quoted above at note 21.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

Opinion of the Court.

able criminal offenses. Obviously the cases cited by the
applicants for habeas corpus fail flatly to support this
argument. 1 We have found none that do.
The bail clause was lifted with slight changes from the
English Bill of Rights Act. 2 In England that clause has
never been thought to accord a right to bail in all cases,"
but merely to provide that bail shall not be excessive in
those cases where it is proper to grant bail. When this
clause was carried over into our Bill of Rights, nothing
was said that indicated any different concept." The
Eighth Amendment has not prevented Congress from defining the classes of cases in which bail shall be allowed
in this country. Thus in criminal cases bail is not compulsory where the punis~ment may be death. 5 Indeed,
41

Attention is called to United States ex rel. Potash v. District

Director, 169 F. 2d 747, 752:
"If the Eighth Amendment to the Constitutio- is considered to
have any bearing upon the right to bail in deportation proceedings,
and this has been denied, it is our opinion that the provisions of that
Amendment and any requiremaent of the due process provisions of
the Fifth Amendment will be fully satisfied if the standards of fair-

ness and reasonableness we have set forth regarding the exercise of
discretion by the Attorney General are observed."
United States ex rel. Klig v. Shaughnessy, 94 F. Supp. 157, 160:
"It is not unappropriate to refer here to the Eighth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, one of that series of amendments collectively known as the Bill of Rights, which prohibits the
imposition of excessive bail. Certainly, the principle inherent in
that amendment applies to deportation proceedings, whether or not
such proceedings technically fall within its scope. That principle
cannot be reconciled with the government's denial of bail to these
relators under the, circumstances here set forth.','
42 1 WM.& Mary, Sess. 2,c.II, § 1 (10).
43Petersdorff, 6n"Bail, 483 et seq.
44I Annals of Congress 753.
451 Stat. 91, § 33; Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 46 (a).
Similarly, on appeal from a conviction by the trial court, a defendant is not entitled to bail if he does not present a substantial question.
Fed. Rules Crim. Proc., 46 (a) (2); Bridges v. United States, 184.

546'

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

the very language of the Amendment fails to say all arrests must be bailable. We think, clearly, here that the
Eighth Amendment does not require that bail be allowed
under the circumstances of these cases.
It should be noted that the problem of habeas corpus
after unusual delay in deportation hearings is not involved
in this case. Cf. United States ex rel. Potash v. District
Director, 169 F. 2d 747, 751.
IV. Rearrest.-Finally,respondent Zydok argues that
his rearrest on the outstanding warrant, after he had once
been released on bail, was improper. The inquiry on
habeas corpus is limited to the propriety of Zydok's present detention. McNally v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131, 136.
While the Attorney General has made a satisfactory showing that he has good cause for detaining Zydok without
bail, no order based on a new warrant has been entered. 6
Zydok did not allow the proceedings to run along but objected promptly by habeas corpus to detention under the
warrant. It has been said that the rule in criminal chses
is that a warrant once executed is exhausted. 7 This
guards against precipitate rearrest. Where, however, the
rearrest comes after the discovery of error in release, a
new warrant is not necessarily required. 8 State cases
have held that an escaped person or one who secured his
F. 2d 881, 884; Williamson v. United States, 184 F. 2d 280, 281;

Baker v. United States, 139 F. 2d 721.
In England, there was a series of crimes ana situations where
the arrested person could "have no other sureties but the four walls
of the prison." Blackstone's Commentaries, Book IV, 298.
46 See United States ex rel. Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 158,

and cases there cited; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 45. These cases
had valid orders entered subsequent to an invalid arrest.
41 See United States ex rel. Heikkinen v. Gordon, 190 F. 2d 16, 19;
Doyle v. Russell, 30 Barb. (N. Y.) 300.
48People
ex rel. Wolfe v. Johnson, 230 N..Y. 256,130 N. E. 286.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

release by trick may be rearrested without a new warrant."9
Although a warrant for rearrest is required by statute,
when a convicted person is paroled his status on violation
of the parole is the same as that of an escaped prisoner.'
When a prisoner is out on bond he is still under court
control, though the bounds of his confinement are enlarged. His bondsmen are his jailers.5 While the bailsmen may arrest without warrant, the court proceeds under
bench warrant to retake a prisoner. Cf. '18 U. S. C.
§ 3143.
Although in a civil proceeding for deportation
the same
branch of government issues and executes the warrant,
we think the better practice is to require in those cases
also a new warrant.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals in the Zydok
case will be vacated and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance-with this
opinion, with directions to order the release of the respondent Zydok unless within a reasonable time in the
discretion of the court he is rearrested under a new
warrant."2
No. 35 is affirmed; No. 136 is vacated.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

Toda*he Court holds that law-abiding persons, neither
charged with nor convicted of any crime, can be held in
jail indefinitely, without bail, if a subordinate Washington
bureau agent believes they are members of the Commu41 Voll v. Steele, 141 Ohio St. 293, 47 N. E. 2d 991.
Cf. Porter v.
Garmony, 148 Ga. 261, 96 S. E. 426. Bail once allowed by a magistrate, pending trial, may not in some instances be refused by a higher
court. In re Marshall, 38 Ariz. 424, 300 P. 1011.

5, Anderson v. Corall, 263 U. S. 193, 196.
51
52

Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall. 366, 371.
See Dowd v. Cook, 340 U. S. 206; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32,

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

nist Party, and therefore dangerous to the Nation because
of the possibility of their "indoctrination of others."
Underlying this harsh holding are past decisions of this
Court declaring that Congress may constitutionally direct
the summary deportation of aliens for any reason it sees
fit. I agree with MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS for the reasons he
gives in his dissenting opinion in Harisiadesv. Shaughnessy, 342 U. S. 580, 598, that these prior declarations
should now be reconsidered and rejected. This would
,,'dispose of these cases. But the Court today not only
,..adheres to, but greatly expands the constitutional doctrine of the former cases. The Court also relies on the
Internal Security Act of 1950, 64 Stat. 987, for its holding.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER presents strong arguments for
construing the Act so as to reach an opposite result. But
even if authorized by that Act, as the majority holds, the
denial of a right to bail under the circumstances of these
cases strikes me as a shocking disregard of the following
provisions of the Bill of Rights: Eighth Amendment's ban
against excessive bail; ' First Amendment's ban against
abridgment of thought, speech and press; 2 Fifth Amendment's ban against depriving a person of liberty without
due process of law.' Before a detailed discussion of my
several grounds of dissent it is necessary to state the facts
and the precise issues the records present.
Respondent Zydok, petitioners Carlson and others
were all arrested ("detained") in connection with proceedings which might lead to their deportation. A subordinate of the Commissioner of Immigration, not the
'"Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed,
nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted." U. S. Const., Am nd.
VIII.
2 "Congress shall make no law ...
abridging the freedom of speekh,
or of the press; .... ." U. S. Const., Amend. I.
3 "No person ...- shall be . . . deprived of life, liberty, or prop,

erty, without due process of law; .'..."

U. S. Const., Amend. V.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Attorney General, directed that they be held in prison
without bail. Of necessity, consideration of these deportation proceedings by bureaus and courts may last for years.
Carlson's has already dragged on for over four years.
Moreover, even deportation orders at the end of such proceedings might not end their indeterminate jail sentences
since the foreign countries to which they are ordered
might refuse to admit them. Such refusals have prevented deportation in thousands of cases.4 Thus denial
of bail may well be the equivalent of a life sentence, at
least for Zydok, 56 years old, and Carlisle whose health
is bad. Such has become the fate of ordinary family people selected and classified, on secret information, as "dangerous" by Washington bureau agents.
Zydok's case illustrates what is happening. He has
lived in this country 39 years, owns his home, has violated
no law, is "not likely to engage in any subversive activities," has a wife, two sons, a daughter and five grandchildren, all born in the United States. Both sons served
in the armed services in World War II. Zydok himself,
then a waiter, sold about $50,000 worth of U. S. war bonds
and "donated blood on seven occasions to the Red Cross
for the United States Army." This jailing of Zydok,
despite a patriotic record of which many citizens could
well be proud, is typical of what actually happens when
public feelings run high against an unpopular minority.
While the Court gives Zydok a momentary technical
respite, its holding means that he too, pursuant to the
Government's present program, can and will be held in jail
without bond as a "dangerous" character. The others,
with equally enviable records as law-abiding persons, are
not even given a technical respite. Mrs. Stevenson is
the wife of a citizen and is the mother of a young man who
Cong. Rec. 10449; H. R. Rep. No. 1192, 81st Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 7, 9, 10.
496

972627 0-52----40

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

is also a citizen. Her son has long been subject to attacks
of undulant fever. He and his 70-year-old grandmother
need Mrs. Stevenson's help as does her husband who does
her housework while she is "detained" as "dangerous" to
our national security. The District Judge tried to persuade the representatives of the Immigration Bureau and
the Attorney General to agree for him to enter an order fixing bail for her and for Mr. Carlisle. His request was
refused.
The record does not leave us in doubt as to why bail
was denied Mrs. Stevenson, Mr. Carlisle, or any of these
allegedly "dangerous" aliens. Denial was not on the
ground that if released they might try to evade obedience
to possible deportation orders. The District Judge in No.
35 conceded that "there is nothing here to indicate the
Government is fearful that they are going to leave the
jurisdiction"; he said, "I am not going to release men
and women that the Attorney General's office says are
security risks"; he also said, "I am not going to turn these
people loose if they are Communists, any more than I
would turn loose a deadly germ in this community. If
that is my duty let the Circuit Court say so and assume
that burden." ' These remarks to counsel show that he
kept these people in jail only because he thought Communists, as such, were too dangerous to the Nation to be
allowed to associate with other people. The Court of
Appeals' denial of bail was also based on the premise that
Communists were too dangerous to the Nation to be left
out of jail, not on the premise that deportation would
be delayed or frustrated by granting bail. 187 F. 2d 991.
"And the District Judge in No. 35 said "When there is a claim,
and I don't know whether it is true or not . . .that these people

are security risks and that their release is dangerous tc the security
of the United States, until that is either disproved or proved I am not
going to release them. My first vote in that respect is for the security of the country. We have had 42,000 casualties already."

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

And the Solicitor General has admitted here that "the
only evidence advanced to support their detention without bail was that they had been active in the Communist
movement." The majority here also appears to rest on
the same basis. It must, unless it is now drawing inferences that some might flee and be unavailable for deportation. As the Government admits, there is not a
vestige of support for such an inference.' Besides, an
alien "who shall willfully fail or refuse to present himself
for deportation . . . shall upon conviction be guilty of a

felony, and shall be imprisoned not more than ten
years

....

"

64 Stat. 987, 1012.

Thus it clearly appears that these aliens are held in
jail without bail for no reason except that "they had
been active in the Communist movement." From this it
is concluded that their association with others would so
imperil the Nation's safety that they must be isolated
from their families and communities. On this premise
they would be just as dangerous whether aliens or citizens,
deportable or not. Since it is not necessary to keep them
in jail to assure their compliance with a deportation order,
their imprisonment cannot possibly be intended as an
aid to deportation. They are kept in jail solely because
a bureau agent thinks that is where Communists should
be. A power to put in jail because dangerous cannot be
derived from a power to deport. Consequently prior
cases holding that Congress has power to deport aliens
provide no support at all for today's holding that Con6 In

this state of the record and particularly in view of the Solicitor

General's contrary admission, I am at a loss to understand note 35
in the Court's .opinion., It is there intimated that these aliens might
flee and be unavailable for deportation. I cannot believe that the
Court is resting, or would rest, its approval of denial of bail on a
ground which even the Solicitor General had not deemed supportable
by the record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

gress has power to authorize bureau agents to put "dangerous" people in jail without privilege of bail.
The stark fact is that if Congress can authorize imprisonment of "alien Communists" because dangerous, it
can authorize imprisonment of citizen "Communists" on
the same ground. And while this particular bureau campaign to fill the jails is said to be aimed at "dangerous"
alien Communists only, peaceful citizens may be ensnared
in the process. For the bureau agent is not required to
prove that a person he.throws in jail is an alien, or a Communist, or "dangerous." The agent need only declare he
has reason to believe that such is the case. The agent may
be and here apparently was acting on the rankest hearsay
evidence. The secret sources of his "information" may
have been spies and informers, a class not usually rated as
the most reliable by people who have had experience with
them
In this record the nearest approach to any identifiable source of information is that some of the jailed
persons had admitted past membership in organizations
listed by the Attorney General as "Communist," or "Com7"Anonymous informations ought not to be received in any sort of
prosecution. It is introducing a very dangerous precedent, and is
quite foreign to the spirit of our age." Written near 100 A. D. by
Emperor Trajan to Pliny the Younger in response to Pliny's interesting report of his prosecution of Christians. 9 Harvard Classics,
428. Pliny was "in great doubt" even then as to "whether the very
profession of Christianity, unattended with any criminal act, or only

the crimes themselves inherent in the profession are punishable ....
.

Supra, 426. "If they [informers against Christians] succeeded in
their prosecution, they were exposed to the resentment of a con-.
siderable and active party, to the censure of the more liberal portion
of mankind, and to the ignominy which in every age and country,
has attended the character of an informer. If, on the contrary, they
failed in their proofs, they incurred the severe, and perhaps capital,
penalty which, according to a law published by the emperor Hadrian,
was inflicted on those who falsely attributed to their fellow-citizens
the crime of Christianity." 2 Gibbon, The History of the Decline.
and Fall of the Roman Empire (Oxford Univ. Press), 107, 108.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

munist front." These listings are made by the Attorney
General ex parte on secret dossiers containing statements
from sources that the Attorney General refuses to reveal.
A majority of this Court has held that such listings are
illegal. Anti-Fascist Committee v. McGrath, 341 U. S.
123. This alone should be enough to reverse the judgments in No. 35. My own judgment is that Congress
has not authorized the Bureau of Immigration to hold
people in jail without bond solely because it believes them
"dangerous." Nor do I think that Congress has power
to grant any such authority even if it had attempted to
do so.
First. Section 23 of the Internal Security Act, 64 Stat.
987, 1011, provides that "Pending final determination of
the deportability of any alien taken into custody under
warrant of the Attorney General, such alien may, in the
discretion of the Attorney General (1) be continued in
custody; or (2) be released under bond in the amount of
not less than $500, with security approved by the Attorney
General; or (3) be released on conditional parole." I
read this language as attempting to authorize the Attorney General to hold aliens without. bail within his discretion. I think that means the Attorney General's
discretion, not that of a subordinate in the Bureau of
Immigration. This record does not show that these
people were jailed by virtue of an exercise of discretion
by the Attorney General. Decision to put deportable
aliens in jail without bond (with very minor exceptions)
was made by subordinates in the Bureau of Immigration.
I agree with MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER that this decision
to jail aliens en masse was not based on the kind of "discretion" the Act intended. But I further think § 23
should not be construed as permitting the Attorney General to delegate this tremendous power to others.
The Government finds a power to so delegate in provisions of the Alien Registration Act of 1940, 8 U. S. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

§ 458 (a) and in the President's Reorganization Plan No.
2 of 1950, 5 U. S. C. (Supp. IV) following § 133z-15.
These provisions are in such broad general terms that they
could be read as allowing the Attorney General to delegate all his discretionary duties. But the gravity of a
discretionary power to seize people and keep them in jail
without a right of-bail warns against implying such an unlimited power to delegate it. It is bad enough to read an
Act as vesting even the Nation's chief prosecutor with
power to determine what individuals he prosecutes should
be held in jail without bail. Delegating and redelegating
this dangerous power to subordinates entrusted with duties
like those of deputy sheriffs and policemen raises serious
procedural due process questions. I am not willing to
imply that Congress has granted power to make such
delegations which so ominously threaten the liberty of
individuals. Consequently, assuming constitutionality
of § 23, I would hold that it vests power in the Attorney
General alone to decide whether a person should be denied
bail.
Second. The Fifth Amendment commands that no
person shall be deprived of liberty without due process
of law. I think this provision has been violated here.
Surely it is not consistent with procedural due process of law for prosecuting attorneys or their law enforcement subordinates to make final determinations as to
whether persons they accuse of something shall remain
in jail indefinitely awaiting a decision as to the truthfulness of the accusations against them. In effect that
was done here. I have already referred to the trial judge's
statement in No. 35 that he was not going to release people the Attorney General deemed to be bad security risks.
Moreover, the immigration official's mere belief based on
statements coming from unidentified persons was accepted
by both trial judges as casting on each alleged "alien Communist" the burden of proving he was not a Communist by

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

clear and convincing evidence. And their refusal to incriminate themselves by denying the immigration officer's suspicions was accepted as sufficient proof to keep
them behind the jail doors. I think that condemning
people to jail is a job for the judiciary in accordance with
procedural "due process of law." ' To farm out this responsibility to the police and prosecuting attorneys is a
judicial abdication in which I will have no part.
Third. As previously pointed out, the basis of holding
these people in jail is a fear that they may indoctrinate
people with Communist beliefs. To put people in jail
for fear of their talk seems to me to be an abridgment
of speech in flat violation of the First Amendment. I
have to admit, however, that this is a logical application
of recent cases watering down constitutional liberty of
speech.' - I also realize that many believe that Communists and "fellow travelers" should not be accorded any
of the First Amendment's protections. My belief is that
we must have freedom of speech, press and religion
for all or we may eventually have it for none. I further
believe that the First Amendment grants an absolute
right to believe in any governmental system, discuss all
governmental affairs, and argue for desired changes in
the existing order. This freedom is too dangerous for bad,
tyrannical governments to permit. But those who wrote
and adopted our First Amendment weighed those dangers
against the dangers of. censorship and deliberately chose
the First Amendment's unequivocal command that freedom of assembly, petition, speech and press shall not be
abridged. I happen to believe this was a wise choice and
that our free way of life enlists such respect and love that
8

See Mozorosky v. Hurlburt, 106 Ore. 274, 198 P. 556, 15 A.
1076 and note pp. 1079-1083.

L. R.

9See, e. g., American Communications Assn. v. Douds, 339 U. S.
382; Dennis v. United States, 341 U. S. 494; Feiner v. New York,
340 U. S. 315.

OCTOBER TERM, 195f.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

our Nation cannot be imperiled by mere talk. This bdlief of mine may and I suppose does influence me to
protest whenever I think I see even slight encroachments
on First Amendment liberties. But the encroachment
here is not small. True it is mainly those alleged to be
present or past "Communists" who are now being jailed
for their beliefs and expressions. But we cannot be sure
more victims will not be offered up later if the First
Amendment means no more than its enemies or even
some of its friends believe it does.
Fourth. I think § 23 as construed and as here applied
violates the command of the Eighth Amendment that
"Excessive bail shall not be required . . . ." Under one
of the Government's contentions, which the Court apparently adopts, the Eighth Amendment's ban on excessive bail means just about nothing. That contention is
that Congress has power, despite the Amendment, to determine "whether or not bail may be granted, or must be
granted, and the Constitution then forbids the exaction of
excessive bail . . . ." Under this contention, the Eighth
Amendment is'a limitation upon judges only, for while a
judge cannot constitutionally fix excessive bail, Congress
can direct that people be held in jail without any right to
bail at all. Stated still another way, the Amendment
does no more than protect a right to bail which Congress
can grant and which Congress can take away. The
Amendment is thus reduced below the level of a pious
admonition. Maybe the literal language of the framers
lends itself to this weird, devitalizing interpretation when
scrutinized with a hostile eye. But at least until recently,
it has been the judicial practice to give a broad, liberal
interpretation to those provisions of the Bill of Rights
obviously designed to protect the individual from governmental oppression. I would follow that practice here.
The Court refuses to do so because (1) the English Bill of
Rights "has never been thought to accord a right to bail in

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BLACK,

"557

J., dissenting.

all cases . ." and (2) "in criminal cases bail is not compulsory where the punishment may be death." As to
(1): The Eighth Amendment is in the American Bill of
Rights of 1789, not the English Bill of Rights of 1689.
And it is well known that our Bill of Rights was written
and adopted to guarantee Americans greater freedom than
had been enjoyed by their ancestors who had been driven
from Europe by persecution. See Bridges v. California,
314 U. S. 252, 264-265. As to (2): It is true bail has
frequently been denied in this country "when the punishment may be death." I -fail to see where the Court's
analogy between deportation and the death penalty advances its argument unless it is also analogizing the
offense of indoctrinating talk to the crime of first degree
murder.
Another governmental contention is this: "The bail
provisions of the Eighth Amendment and of the statutes
relating thereto have always been considered as applicable
only to criminal proceedings. Since deportation proceedings are not criminal in character, the Eighth Amendment
has no application." I reject the contention that this
constitutional right to bail can be denied a man in jail by
the simple device of providing a "not criminal" label for
the techniques used to incarcerate. Imprisonment awaiting determination of whether that imprisonment is justifiable has precisely the same evil consequences to an individual whatever legalistic label is used to describe his
plight. Prior to this Amendment's adoption, history had
been filled with instanceg where individuals had been imprisoned and held for want of bail on charges that could
not be substantiated. Official malice had too frequently
been the cause of imprisonment. The plain purpose of
our bail Amendment was to make it impossible for any
agency of Government, even the Congress, to authorize
keeping people imprisoned a moment longer than was
necessary to assure their attendance to answer whatever

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

legal burden or obligation might thereafter be validly imposed upon them. In earlier days of this country there
were fond hopes that the bail provision was unnecessary,
that no branch of our Government would ever want to
deprive any person of bail. On this subject Mr. Justice
Story said, "The provision would seem to be wholly unnecessary in a free government, since it is scarcely possible that any'department of such a government should
authorize or justify such atrocious conduct." Story on
Constitutional Law, 5th ed., Vol. 2, p. 650. Perhaps the
word "atrocious" is too strong. I can only say that I
regret, deeply regret, that the Court now adds the right
to bail to the list of other Bill of Rights guarantees that
have recently been weakened to expand governmental
powers at the expense of individual freedom.
I am for reversing in No. 35 and affirming in No. 136.
whom MR. JUSTICE BURTON joins, dissenting.
If the Attorney General, after the Internal Security Act,
had made a general ruling that thereafter he would not
allow bail to any alien against whom deportation proceedings were started and who was then a member of the Communist Party-an undiscriminating, unindividualized
class determination-it would disregard the clear direction of Congress for this Court not to hold that the Attorney General had exceeded the limits of his discretion. It
would wilfully disregard the adjudications on bail in deportation cases which preceded the Act and the unambiguous legislative history of the law based upon this judicial
history. Congress unequivocally chose not to give nonreviewable discretionary power to the Attorney General
to deny bail. In substance thouc, not formally he has
made such a general ruling. The records before us disclose that since the Internal Security Act the Attorney
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

General has in fact followed the general practice of denying bail to all active Communists. Such blanket exercise
of the power granted him by the Act calls for review and
cannot stand.
The controlling que-tions in this case are: What standards of discretion does the Internal Security Act of 19501
impose upon the Attorney General in granting or denying bail to persons arrested for deportation proceedings;
and has the Attorney General here observed those standards? The Government concedes that Congress made
reviewable the discretion of the Attorney General on the
bail question. This subjection of the Attorney General's
action to judicial scrutiny is not to be formally or lightly
exercised. The bill which ultimately became § 23 of the
Internal Security Act was initially passed by the House
with a provision making absolute and unreviewable the
Attorney General's action.2 The bill as enacted, however,
omitted the finality clause; the Attorney General's authority was thus defined: "Pending final determination of the
deportability of any alien .

.

. [he] may, in the discretion

of the Attorney General (1) be continued in custody; or
(2) be released under bond in the amount of not less than
$500, with security approved by the Attorney General; or
I

2

Pub. L. No. 831, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., 64 Stat. 987.
H. R. 10, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. read in relevant part thus: "(g) No

court shall have jiirisdiction to release on bond or otherwise any
alien detained under any provision of law relating to the exclusion
or expulsion of aliens at any time prior to a decision of court in his
favor which is not subject to further judicial reviews." See 96 Cong.
Rec. 10448-10460. H. R. Rep. No. 1192, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. 10-11
had this comment: "The provision is designed to leave the question of
,releasing an alien from custody in an immigration case entirely in the
hands of the Attorney General . . . . It in no way denies the right
of any alien to test the legality of his detention through the courts;
it merely states that the alien cannot be released by the court until
judiaial proceedings have been finally terminated in the alien's favor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

(3) be released on conditional parole."' Before the passage of the Act Congress had before it conflicting views of
Courts of Appeals: according to Prentisv. Manoogian, 16
F. 2d 422 (C. A. 6th Cir.), bail was a matter of the alien's
right; the Second Circuit ruled that it was a matter within
the Attorney General's discretion subject to judicial review. United States ex rel. Potash v. District Director,
169 F. 2d 747 (C. A. 2d Cir.).' Congress chose the latter
view. It deserves emphasis that it was discretion that
was given the Attorney General, not power to decide
arbitrarily.'
3 Internal

Security Act of 1950, § 23, 64 Stat. 987, 1010, 8 U. S. C.
(Supp. IV) § 156 (a) (emphasis added).
4H. R. Rep. No. 1192, 81st Cong, 1st Sess. 5-6, commenting on
H. R. 10, which made the Attorney General's discretion unreviewable,
yet gave "discretion" to the Attorney General, said:
"This [existing law] has often been found to be lacking in clarity and
doubtful in purpose when'questions have arisen concerning procedure
following arrest of an alien, or during the interim between his arrest.
and his hearing and decision on his case ....

The committee be-

lieves that this bill will greatly simplify such details."
A memorandum from a lawyers' group which was read into the
record urged that to make the decision of the Attorney General unreviewable "flouts the recent decision of the circuit court of appeals
of the second circuit," citing United States ex rel. Potash v. District
Director, 169 F. 2d 747. '96 Cong. Rec. 10454.
5 Compare the language "in the discretion of the Attorney General"
with the clause "Where the Controller has reasonable grounds to
believe," which, the Privy Council had before it in Nakkuda Ali v.
Jayaratne, [1951] A. C. 66. It was held, in the judgment of Lord
Radcliffe, "that there must in fhct exist such reasonable grounds, known to the Controller, before he can validly exercise the power"
conferred. Ai~d for this reason: "After all, words such as these
are commonly found when a legislature or law-making authority confers powers on a minister or official. However read, they must be
intended to serve in some sense as a condition limiting the exercise
of an otherwise arbitrary power. But if the question whether the

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

. In granting the Attorney General discretion subject to
judicial review, Congress legislated against a historical
background which gives meaning to bail provisions. Only
the other day this Court restated the concept of bail
traditional in American thought and reflected in the
Constitution:
"This traditional right to freedom before conviction
[or before order for deportation] permits the unhampered preparation of a defense, and serves to prevent
the infliction of punishment prior to conviction ...
Since the function of bail is limited, the fixing of
bail for any individual defendant must be based upon
standards relevant to the purpose of assuring the
presence of that defendant. . . . To infer from the
fact of indictment [or warrant for deportation] alone
.a need for bail in an unusually high amount is an
arbitrary act." Stack v. Boyle, 342 U. S. 1, 4, 5, 6.
"The practice of admission to bail, as it has evolved
in Anglo-American law, is not a device for keeping
persons in jail upon mere accusation until it is found
convenient to give them a trial. On the contrary,
the spirit of the procedure is to enable them to stay
out of jail until a trial has found them guilty....
Each defendant stands before the bar of justice
as an individual. . . . Each accused is entitled
to any benefits due to his good record, and misdeeds
or a bad record should prejudice only those who are
guilty of them." Id., at 7, 8, 9 (concurring opinion).
condition has been satisfied is to be conclusively decided by the man
who wields the power the value of the intended restraint is in effect
nothing. No doubt he must not exercise the power in bad faith: but
the field in which this kind of question arises is such that the reservation for the ease of bad faith is hardly more than a formality." Id.,
at 77.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

This historical meaning of "bail," familiar even to laymen, must infuse our interpretation of the words of a
Congreqs' of whom, in fact, a majority were lawyers.
When Congress provided for bail, within the Attorney
General's discretion, for persons arrested for deportation
proceedings, it was extending to resident aliens still lawfully in our midst the same privileges that are granted as
a matter of course to dangerous criminals. The factors
relevant to the exercise of discretion are factors that pertain to each individual as an individual. "Discretion is
only to be respected when it is conscious of the traditions
which surround it and of the limits which an informed
conscience sets to its exercise." '
If these aliens, instead of awaiting deportation proceedings, were held for trial under a Smith Act indictment, they could not be denied bail merely because of the
indictment. Stack v. Boyle, supra. Membership in the
Communist Party-the charge which is the foundation
for the deportation proceedings-is surely not as great
a danger as a leading share in a conspiracy to advocate
the overthrow of the Government by force, which was the
essence of the indictment in Dennis v. United States,
341 U. S. 494. And the opportunity for "the unhampered
preparation of a defense" is quite as important to the
alien arrested for deportation proceedings as it is to the
Smith Act defendant. We would hesitate to impute to
Congress, in the absence of some more explicit command,
an intent to make bail more readily available to those held
on a serious criminal charge than to those awaiting proceedings to determine the question of deportability. Congress made no such distinction. Instead, it cast the Attorney General's authority in terms descriptive of the
0 Professor Mark De Wolfe Howe in The Nation, Jan. 12, 1952,

p. 30.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

customary power of commissioners or district judges in
admitting to bail.
The factors stated by the Second Circuit in the Potash
case, supra, at 751, which guided the enactment, are presumably the standards which Congress expected to be
observed: "The discretion of the Attorney General . . .
is to be reasonably exercised upon a consideration of such
factors, among others, as the probability of the alien being found deportable, the seriousness of the charge against
him, if proved, the danger to the public safety of his presence within the community, and the alien's availability
for subsequent proceedings if enlarged on bail."
Congress thus made provision for a fair assurance of
each alien's availability in the event he is eventually
ordered deported. There is, however, not the slightest
indication in the Government's returns or in the records
before us that each petitioner's ties to family and community and each one's behavior under an earlier warrant
against him do not assure his presence throughout the
deportation proceedings and thereafter. The records affirmatively indicate the contrary. Moreover, in deportation cases-as compared, for example, with prosecutions
under the Smith Act-the consideration that the individuals concerned may dpart from the country is minimized
in signifiance, first, because compulsory departure from
the United States is just what they are contesting, and
secondly, if they do depart, the purpose of the deportation
proceedings is realized.
It would be unfair to Congress to deny that it followed
the traditional concept of bail by making "the danger
to the public safety of his presence within the .community" a criterion for bailability. No less mutt it be presumed that Congress required that each criterion should
-be applied in the traditional manner, that is, by individualized application to each alien. In each case, the
alien's anticipated personal conduct-and that alone-

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

must be considered. Also, how expeditiously each deportation proceeding can be concluded, and therefore how
long the bail in each case need be in effect, are relevant
considerations.
But it is argued that, since an introductory section of
the Internal Security Act makes a "legislative fiftding" of
the threat represented by the Party,7 Congress intended
membership in the Communist Party alone to serve as a
reasonable basis for believing individual aliens too dangerous to leave at large. Such an interpretation renders
meaningless the discretion granted the Attorney General
wherever the deportation charge is membership in -the
Communist Party. The argument means that he may
exercise discretion as to bail only to deny bail. Congress did not write such a Hobson's choice into law. True,
the bail provisions apply to deportation proceedings
brought on other grounds. However, the absorbing concern of Congress in the Internal Security Act was with the
problem of the Communist Party; that Act for the first
time explicitly made membership in the Communist
Party a ground for deportation.' It puts Congress in a
stultifying position to suggest that it gave with one hand
only to take away with the other.
In these cases the Attorney General has not exercised
his discretion by applying the standards required of him.
He evidently thought himself under compulsion of law
and made an abstract, class determination, not an individualized judgment. When the five aliens were arrested
originally (one as late as June, 1950), all were released on
bail, ranging from $5,000 for one to $1,000 for another;
three were released on $2,000 bail. Much is made of the
fact that the enactment of the Internal Security Act on
7Internal Security Act of 1950, § 2, 64 Stat. 987.
8

Internal Security Act of 1950, § 22, 64 Stat. 987, 1006, 8 U. S. C.
(Supp. IV) §§ 137, 137-3.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

September 22, 1950, intervened between the original grant
of bail and the subsequent rearrest and detention of the
aliens. The only change in that Act relevant to these
deportation proceedings was the provision making membership in the Communist Party specifically a basis for
deportation.' New warrants charging membership in the
Communist Party at some time after entry were served on
the rearrested aliens in Los Angeles, though not on Zydok
in Detroit. The immigration authorities were by the Act
relieved of proving-in order to make a prima facie casethat the Communist Party is an,"organization . . . that
believes in, advises, advocates, or teaches . . . the overthrow by force or violence of the Government." 10 But in
the circumstances of today a legislative definition of the
Communist Party as an organization advocating violent
overthrow of government made little difference in the
required proof.11 At any rate, a complete answer is that
nowhere-either in his returns to the writs of habeas
corpus or elsewhere-has the Attorney General made any
assertion that the Internal Security Act eased the proof of
deportability, indicating by his silence that such a factor
did not influence his judgment.12 The returns in the
Los Angeles cases supported the denial of bail solely by
the statement, "said facts cause the said Acting Commis9 Ibid.
10 40 Stat. 1012, 8 U. S. C. § 137 (c).
" See Dennis v. United States, 341, U. S. 494, 510-511, and the
concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON in American Communi-

cations Assn. v. Douds, 339 U. S.382, 422.
12
A radiogram to the District Director of Immigration and Naturalization in Los Angeles from the Acting Commissioner in Washington
compendiously justified holding the four Los Akngeles aliens without
bail thus:
the instruction . .. was issued only after the cases had been
examined in the light of the Internal Security Act . . .and the

spirit and intention thereof and all of the factors concerning the
972627 0-52-41

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

342 U,S.

sioner to believe-that if the said petitioner[s] were 'enlarged on bail [they] would engage in activities which
would be prejudicial to the public interest, and would
endanger the welfare and safety of the United States."
The return in Zydok's case stated no reasons for the Attorney General's decision. The only evidence at the hearings was also directed solely to the Communist activities
of the aliens.
The insubstantiality of the evidence for showing any
danger in freeing each individual alien on bail raises ample
doubt whether the-Attorney General exercised a discretion
'as 'instructed by statute. In Zydok's case the claim is
that he had been a member of the Communist Party and
financial secretary of a Hamtramck, Michigan, section in
1949, a year before his rearrest and denial of bail on October 23, 1950. From Zydok's failure to deny present membership during his testimony, the District Court drew the
conclusion that he was "knowingly and wilfully participating in the Communist movement." This was clearly
a violation of Zydok's privilege against self-incrimination,
which he many times claimed.' But assuming that the
Attorney General had evidence before him that Zydok
was at present a member of the Communist Party, that
alone is insufficient to show danger in freeing him on
bail during the deportation proceeding. To deny bail, the
Attorney General should haveA reasonable basis for believing that the circumstancqs attending Zydok present
-to hazardous a risk in leaving him at-large.
likelihood of the deportability and the activities of said alien had been
given careful consideration as'well as the factors of undue hardship
which continued detention might impose."
The radiograms, inOctober, 1950, to the District Director in'Detroit ordering Zydok's rearrest and detention without bail gave no

nasons for the action.
ig See 20 Stat. 30, 18 U. S. C. § 3481; Wilson v. United States, 149
U. S.60, 66. See also Blau v. United States, 340 U. S. 159.

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

There is also no evidence on the activities of the other
four aliens that is more recent than 1949-a year before
the issuance of the relevant warrants for deportation and

the denials of bail here under review-with the exception
of a newspaper article by Carlson published in late 1950.

In fact, in the case of Carlisle and Stevenson the Government had no evidence of activity or membership in
the Communist Party more recent than the 1930's.

Since all these aliens when previously arrested were released on bail, we cannot escape the conclusion that the
Attorney General after the enactment of the Internal
Security Act did not deny bail from an individualized

estimate of "the danger to the public safety of [each person's] presence within the community."
14In a case just decided, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found a not unreasonable exercise of discretion by the Attorney
General in circumstances that are here wanti.J-. An extract from
the opinion of Judge A. N. Hand illumines the differences:.
"In his petition for the writ, Young alleged facts indicating that if
released he would be available for any further proceedings at which
his presence would be required. The returfi .to the writ, however,
contained allegations which, if accepted, established a. reasonable
foundation for the denial of bail by the Attorney General. Thus the
return, in addition to containing allegations of me.dership in the
Communist party, alleged that Young had once before escaped from
custody during earlier proceedings; that he had previously attempted
to enter' the United States by furnishing a false identity and with a
fraudulent passport; and that during his present detention he refused
to answer questions relating to prior identification, places of residence,
employment and home life. ,$ection 2248 of the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. § 2248, requires that the facts alleged in the return be taken
as true unless impeached, and Young in his traverse to the return
did not refute those statements, nor did he in his motion for reargument, make any offer to prove the contrary, nor did he assert new
facts, which under 28 U. S. C. § 2246 could have been accomplished
by affidavit. As the Supreme Court has recently said in Stack v.
Boyle, 342 U. S.1, 4: 'The right to release before trial'is conditioned
upon the accused's giving adequate assurance that he will stand trial
and submit to sentence if found guilty.'" United States ex rel. Young
v. Shaughnessy, 194 F. 2d.474 (C. A. 2d Cir., February 13, 1952)..

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

342 U. S.

We are confirmed in this conclusion by the Attorney

General's practice. For we are advised by the Solicitor
General that it has been the Government's policy since the
Internal Security Act to terminate bail for all aliens awaiting deportation proceedings whom it deems to be present
active Communists, barring only those for whom special
circumstances of physical condition or family situation
compel an exception. The ordinary considerations of
availability to respond to the final judgment of the
courts have apparently been ruled out by the Attorney
General since the enactment of the Internal Security Act.
All those whom the Government believes to be active
Communists are considered unbailable without individualized consideratioff of risk from their continued freedom.
It must therefore be inferred that the Attorney General
acted on the assumption that, because he was convinced
that the aliens here were present Communist Party members, they were not bailable. These persons should have
the benefit of an exercise of discretion by the Attorney
General, freed from any conception that Congress had
made them in effect unbailable. We think that the California case should be returned to the District Court for
discharge of the four persons detained unless the Attorney General within a reasonable time makes a new determination on the bail question using the standards here
outlined. And if Zydok is rearrested under a new warrant, the Attorney General will have a fresh opportunity
to exercise his discretion in setting bail.
dissenting.
My reasons for dissent strike deeper than the bail provisions of the Eighth Amendment. According to the
warrants of arrest issued on October 31, 1950, the petitioners in No. 35 are being detained for deportation
because they were formerly members of the Communist
Party of the United States. Zydok, the respondent in
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

CARLSON v. LANDON.
524

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

No. 136, was arrested for present Communist Party membership, but no charge has been made that he has been
guilty of any seditious conduct or that he has committed
any overt act endangering our national security. If the
Constitution does not permit expulsion of these aliens fo-.
their past actions or present expressions unaccompanied
*by conduct-and I do' not think it does*-then they are
illegally detained and should be set free, making the issue
of bail meaningless.
MR.

dissenting.
I join the dissenting opinion of MR.
JUSTICE BURTON,

FURTER

JUSTICE

FRANY-

and add the suggestion that the Eighth Amend-

ment lends support to the statutory interpretation he
advocates. That Amendment clearly prohibits federal
bail that is excessive in amount when seen in the light of
all traditionally 'relevant circumstances. Likewise, it
must prohibit unreasonable denial of bail.' The Amendment cannot well mean that, on the one hand, it prohibits
the requirement of bail so excessive in amount as to be
unattainable, yet, on the other hand, under like circumstances, it does not prohibit the denial of bail, which
comes to the same thing. The same circumstances are
relevant to both procedures. It is difficult to believe that
Congress now has attempted to give the Attorney General
authority to disregard those considerations in the denial
of bail.

*See my dissents in Dennis-v. United States, 341 U. S. 494, 584-589;
Harisiades v. Shaughnessy, 342 U. S. 580, 598

