LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 143
Syllabus.

LORAIN JOURNAL CO.

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN

No. 26.

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued October 17, 1951.-Decided December 11, 1951.

For 15 years a newspaper publisher enjoyed a substantial monopoly
of the mass dissemination of local and national news and advertising in its community, and 99% coverage of the community's
families. After the establishment of a competing radio station,
the publisher refused to accept local advertising from those who
advertised over the radio station. The purpose of the publisher
was to destroy the broadcasting company. Held: The publisher
was engaged in an attempt to monopolize interstate commerce, in
violation of § 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, and was properly
enjoined under § 4 from continuing the attempt. Pp. 144-157.
1. The conduct of the publisher was an attempt to monopolize
interstate commerce. Pp. 149-152.
(a) The distribution within the community of the news and
advertising transmitted there in interstate commerce for the sole
purpose of immediate and profitable reproduction and distribution
to the reading public is an inseparable part of the flow of the
interstate commerce involved. P. 152.
(b) Without the.protection of competition at the outlets of
the flow of interstate commerce, the protection of its earlier stages
is of little worth. P. 152.
2. The publisher's attempt to regain its monopoly of interstate
commerce by forcing advertisers to boycott a competing radio
station violated § 2 of the Sherman Act. Pp. 152-155.
(a) In order'to establish this violation of § 2, it was not necessary to show that the publisher's attempt to monopolize was
successful. Pp. 153-154.
(b) A lone newspaper, already enjoying a substantial monopoly in its area, violates the "attempt to monopolize" clause of § 2
when it uses its monopoly to destroy threatened competition.
P. 154.
(c) The right.claimed by the publisher as a private business
concern to select its customers and to refuse to accept advertisements from whomever it pleases is neither absolute nor exempt
from regulation. Its exercise as a purposeful means of monopolizing interstate commerce is prohibited by the Sherman Act. P.
155.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S,

3. The injunction against the newspaper publisher's continuing
to attempt to monopolize interstate commerce does not violate the
First Amendment's guaranty of freedom of the press. Pp. 155-156.
4. There is no obvious error in the form or substance of the
decree of the District Court; and, in the circumstances of the
case, this Court relies upon that court's retention of jurisdiction
over the cause for whatever modification the decree may need in
the light of the entire proceedings and of subsequent events. Pp.
156-157.
92 F. Supp. 794, affirmed.

In a civil action brought by the United States under
the Sherman Act, the District Court enjoined appellants
from violation of the Act. 92 F. Supp. 794. A direct
appeal to this Court was taken under the Expediting
Act. Affirmed, p. 157.
William E. Leahy argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were William J. Hughes, Jr., Parker
Fulton and King E. Fauver. Robert M. Weh was also
of counsel.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney General Morison, J. Roger Wollenberg, Robert
L. Stern, Baddia J.Rashid and Victor H. Kramer.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The principal question here is whether a newspaper
publisher's conduct constituted an attempt to monopolize
interstate commerce, justifying the injunction issued
against it under §§ 2 and 4 of the Sherman Antitrust
Act.1 For the reasons hereafter stated, we hold that the
injunction was justified.
1 "SEc. 2. Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons,
to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 145
143

Opinion of the Court.

This is a civil action, instituted by the United States
in the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio,
against The Lorain Journal Company, an Ohio corporation, publishing, daily except Sunday, in the City of
Lorain, Ohio, a newspaper here called the Journal. The
complaint alleged that the corporation, together with
four of its officials, was engaging in a combination and
conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce in violation
of § 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, and in a combination and conspiracy to monopolize such commerce in
violation of § 2 of the Act, as well as attempting to monopolize such commerce in violation of § 2.2 The District
Court declined to issue a temporary injunction but, after
trial, found that the parties were engaging in an attempt
to monopolize as charged. Confining itself to that issue,
the court enjoined them from continuing the attempt.
92 F. Supp. 794. They appealed to this Court under the
Expediting Act of 1903, 32 Stat. 823, as amended, 62 Stat.
989, 15 U. S. C. (Supp. IV) § 29, and the issues before
us are those arising from that finding and the terms of
the injunction.
States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor ....
'.'SEc. 4. The several district courts of the United States are hereby
invested with jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of this
act; and it shall be the duty of the several district attorneys of the
United States, in their respective districts, under the direction of the
Attorney-General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and
restrain such violations ...
" 26 S.tat. 209, 36 Stat. 1167, 15 U. S. C.
§§ 2 and 4.
2 The individual defendants named in the complaint were Samuel
A. Horvitz, vice president, secretary and a director of the corporation;
Isadore Horvitz, president, treasurer and a director; D. P. Self,
business manager; and Frank Maloy, editor. Each participated in
the conduct alleged to constitute the attempt to monopolize. Maloy
has died pending the appeal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

The appellant corporation, here called the publisher,
has published the Journal in the City of Lorain since before 1932. In that year it, with others, purchased the
Times-Herald which was the only competing daily paper
published in that city. Later, without success, it sought
a license to establish and operate a radio broadcasting
station in Lorain. 92 F. Supp. 794, 796, and see Lorain
JournalCo. v. Federal CommunicationsComm'n, 86 U. S
App. D. C. 102, 180 F. 2d 28.
The court below describes the position of the Journal,
since 1933, as "a commanding and an overpowering one.
It has a daily circulation in Lorain of over 13,000 copies
and it reaches ninety-nine per cent of the families in the
city." 92 F. Supp. at 796. Lorain is an industrial city
on Lake Erie with a population of about 52,000 occupying
1.1,325 dwelling units. The Sunday News, appearing
only on Sundays, is the only other newspaper published
there.'
While but 165 out of the Journal's daily circulation of
over 20,000 copies are sent out of Ohio, it publishes not
only Lorain news but substantial quantities of state, national and international news. It pays substantial sums
for such news and for feature material shipped to it from
various parts of the United States and the rest of the
wDrld. It carries a substantial quantity of national ad3 The Sunday News has a weekly circulation of about 3,000 copies,
largely in Lorain. The Chronicle-Telegram is a newspaper published
daily, except Sunday, eight miles away in Elyria. It has a daily
circulation in that city of about 9,000 but none in Lorain. The
Cleveland Plain Dealer, News and Press are metropolitan newspapers
published daily, except Sunday, in Cleveland, 28 miles east of Lorain.
They have a combined daily circulation in Lorain of about 6,000.
The Cleveland Sunday Plain Dealer has a Sunday circulation in
Lorain of about 11,000. The Cleveland papers carry no Lorain
advertising and little Lorain news. No reference has been made in
the record or in the argument here to competition from any radio
station other than WEOL.

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 147
143

Opinion of the Court.

vertising sent to it from throughout the United States.
Shipments and payments incidental to the above matters,
as well as the publisher's purchases of paper and ink,
involve many transactions in interstate or foreign
commerce.
From 1933 to 1948 the publisher enjoyed a substantial
monopoly in Lorain of the mass dissemination of news and
advertising, both of a local and national character. However, in 1948 the Elyria-Lorain Broadcasting Company, a
corporation independent of the publisher, was licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission to establish and
operate in Elyria, Ohio, eight miles south of Lorain, a
radio station whose call letters, WEOL, stand for Elyria,
Oberlin and Lorain." Since then it has operated its principal studio in Elyria and a branch studio in Lorain.
Lorain has about twice the population of Elyria and is by
far the largest community in the station's immediate area.
Oberlin is much smaller than Elyria and eight miles south
of it.
While the station is not affiliated with a national network it disseminates both intrastate and interstate news
and advertising. About 65% of its program consists of
music broadcast from electrical transcriptions. These
are shipped and leased to the station by out-of-state suppliers. Most of them are copyrighted and the station
pays royalties to the out-of-state holders of the copy4The license also covers WEOL-FM but the two stations are
here treated as one. WEOL operates on a frequency of 930 kilocycles and,WEOL-FM of 107.6 megacycles. The station outlines its
primary listening or market area on the basis of a half millivolt
daytime pattern and a two millivolt nighttime pattern. Its day
pattern reaches an area containing all or part of 20 counties and
an estimated population of over 2,250,000. Its night pattern reaches
an area containing parts of nine of these counties and an estimated
population of about 450,000. Lorain County, which includes the
communities of Lorain, Elyria and Oberlin, contains about 120,000
people, 52,000 of whom live in the City of Lorain.

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

rights. From 10 to 12% of the station's program consists of news, world-wide in coverage, gathered by United
Press Associations. The news is received from outside of
Ohio and relayed to Elyria through Columbus or Cleveland. From April, 1949, to March, 1950, the station
broadcast over 100 sponsored sports events originating in
various states.
Substantially all of the station's income is derived from
its broadcasts of advertisements of goods or services.
About 16% of its income comes from national advertising
under contracts with advertisers outside of Ohio. This
produces a continuous flow of copy, payments and materials moving across state lines.'
The court below found that appellants knew that a substantial number of Journal advertisers wished to use the
facilities of the radio station as well. For some of them
it found that advertising in the Journal was essential for
the promotion of their sales in Lorain County. It found
that at all times since WEOL commenced broadcasting,
appellants had executed a plan conceived to eliminate
the threat of competition from the station. Under this
plan the publisher refused to accept local advertisements
in the Journal from any Lorain County advertiser who advertised or who appellants believed to be about to advertise over WEOL. The court found expressly that the
5 Other findings show that the station broadcasts advertisements of
goods and services on behalf of suppliers outside of Ohio. These
sometimes result in interstate orders and shipments. Orders received by its local advertisers are sometimes filled by out-of-state
suppliers. The station's broadcasts inevitably reach across state
lines. They are heard with some regularity by many people in
southeastern Michigan. The application which led to WEOL's
license was considered by the Federal Communications Commission
in conjunction with an application for another license, sought by a
Michigan station, involving possible conflicts between its coverage
and that of WEOL.

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 149
143

Opinion of the Court.

purpose and intent of this procedure was to destroy the
broadcasting company.
The court characterized all this as "bold, relentless, and
predatory commercial behavior." 92 F. Supp. at 796.
To carry out appellants' plan, the publisher monitored
WEOL programs to determine the identity of the station's local Lorain advertisers. Those using the station's
facilities had their contracts with the publisher terminated and were able to renew them only after ceasing to
advertise through WEOL. The program was effective.
Numerous Lorain County merchants testified that, as a
result of the publisher's policy, they either ceased or abandoned their plans to advertise over WEOL.
"Having the plan and desire to injure the radio station, no more effective and more direct device to impede the operations and to restrain the commerce of
WEOL could be found by the Journal than to cut
off its bloodstream of existence-the advertising revenues which control its life or demise.
the very existence of WEOL is imperiled
by this attack upon one of its principal sources of
business and income." Id., at 798, 799.
The principal provisions of the injunction issued by the
District Court are not set forth in the published report
of the case below but are printed'in an Appendix, infra,
pp. 157-159. Sections IV and V B of the decree, relating to notices, are stayed pending final disposition of this
appeal.
1. The conduct complained of was an attempt to monopolize interstate commerce. It consisted of the pub-

lisher's practice of refusing to accept local Lorain advertising from parties using WEOL for local advertising.
Because of the Journal's complete daily newspaper monopoly of local advertising in Lorain and its practically
972627 o-52--m

OCTOBER TERM, ;951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

indispensable coverage of 99% of the Lorain families, this
practice forced numerous advertisers to refrain from using
WEOL for local advertising. That result not only reduced the number of customers available to WEOL in
the field of local Lorain advertising and strengthened the
Journal's monopoly in that field, but more significantly
tended to destroy and eliminate WEOL altogether.
Attainment of that sought-for elimination would automatically restore to the publisher of the Journal its substantial monopoly in Lorain of the mass dissemination
of all news and advertising, interstate and national, as
well as local. It would deprive not merely Lorain but
Elyria and all surrounding communities of their only
nearby radio station.
There is a suggestion that the out-of-state distribution
of some copies of the Journal, coupled with the considerable interstate commerce engaged in by its publisher in
the purchase of its operating supplies, provided, in any
e ient, a sufficient basis for classifying the publisher's
entire operation as one in interstate commerce. It is
pointed out also that the Journal's daily publication of
local'news and advertising was so inseparably integrated
with its publication of interstate news and national advertising that any coercion used by it in securing local
advertising inevitably operated to strengthen its entire
operation, including its monopoly of interstate news and
national advertising.
It is not necessary, however, to rely on the above suggestions. The findings go further. They expressly and
unequivocally state that the publisher's conduct was
aimed at a larger target-the complete destruction and
elimination of WEOL. The court found that the publiher, before 1948, enjoyed a substantial monopoly in
Lorain of the mass dissemination not only of local news
and advertising, but of news of out-of-state events transmitted to Lorain for immediate dissemination, and of

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 151
143

Opinion of the Court.

advertising of out-of-state products for sale in Lorain.
WEOL offered competition by,,radio in all these fields so
that the publisher's attempt to destroy WEOL was in
fact an attempt to end the invasion by radio of the Lorain
newspaper's monopoly of interstate as well as local
6
commerce.
There can be little doubt today that the immediate
dissemination of news gathered from throughout the nation or the world by agencies specially organized for that
purpose is a part of interstate commerce. Associated
Press v. United States, 326 U. S. 1, 14; Associated Press
v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 103. The same is true of na*
tional advertising originating throughout the nation and
offering products for sale on a national scale. The local
dissemination of such news and advertising requires continuous interstate transmission of materials and payments, to say nothing of the interstate commerce involved
in the sale and delivery of products sold. The decision
in Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 252 U. S. 436,
related to the making of contracts for advertising rather
than to the preparation and dissemination of advertising.
Moreover, the view there stated, that the making of contracts by parties outside of a state for the insertion of
advertising material in periodicals of nationwide circulation did not amount to interstate commerce, rested ex6The reference in § 2 to an attempt to monopolize "any part of
the trade or commerce among the several States" relates not merely
to interstate commerce within any geographical part of the United
States but also to any appreciable part of such interstate commerce.
"The provisions of §§ 1 and 2 have both a geographical and distributive significance and apply to any part of the United States
as distinguished from the whole and tc any part of the classes of
things forming a part of interstate commerce." Indiana Farmer's
Guide Pub. Co. v. PrairieFarmer Pub. Co., 293 U. S.268, 279. See
also, United States v. Griffith, 334 U. S.100, 106; United States v.
Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S.218, 225; Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193

U. S.38.

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

pressly on a line of cases holding "that policies of insurance are not articles of commerce, and that the making
of such contracts is a mere incident of commercial intercourse." Id., at 443. See Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168,
and New York Life Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231
U. S. 495. That line of cases no longer stands in the way.
United States v., South-Eastern Underwriters Assn., 322
U. S..533. See also, North American Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Comm'n, 327 U. S. 686; Indiana Farmer's
Guide Pub. Co. v. PrairieFarmer Pub. Co., 293 U. S. 268.
The distribution within Lorain of the news and advertisements transmitted to Lorain in interstate commerce
for the sole purpose of inmediate and profitable reproduction and distribution to the reading public is an
inseparable part of the flow of the interstate commerce
involved. See Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S.
291, 309; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 516; Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Louisiana R. Comm'n, 236 U. S. 157,
163; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398.
Unless protected by law, the consuming public is at the
mercy of restraintq and monopolizations of interstate
commerce at whatever points they occur. Without the
protection of competition at the outlets of the flow of
interstate commerce, the protection of its earlier stages
is of little worth.
2. The publisher's attempt to regain its monopoly of
interstate commerce by forcing advertisers to boycott a
competing radio station violated § 2. The findings and
opinion of the trial court describe the conduct of the
publisher upon which the Government relies. The surrounding circumstances are important. The most illuminating of these is the substantial monopoly which was
efijoyed in Lorain by the publisher from 1933 to 1948,
together with a 99% coverage of Lorain families. Those
factors made the Journal an indispensable medium of
advertising for many Lorain concerns. Accordingly, its

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES.' 153
143

Opinion of the Court.

publisher's refusals to print Lorain advertising for those
using WEOL for like advertising often amounted to an
effective prohibition of the use of WEOL for that purpose.
Numerous Lorain advertisers wished to supplement their
local newspaper advertising with local radio advertising
but could not afford to discontinue their newspaper advertising in order to use the radio.
WEOI& greatest potential source of income was local
Lorain advertising. Loss of that was a major threat to
its existence. The court below found unequivocally that
appellants' conduct amounted to an attempt by the
publisher to destroy WEOL and, at the same time, to
regain the publisher's pre-1948 substantial monopoly over
the mass dissemination of all news and advertising.
To establish this violation of § 2 as charged, it was not
necessary to show that success rewarded appellants' attempt to monopolize. The injunctive relief under § 4
sought to forestall that success. While appellants' attempt to monopolize did succeed insofar as it deprived
WEOL of income, WEOL has not yet been eliminated.
The injunction may save it. "[W]hen that intent [to
monopolize] and the consequent dangerous probability
exist, this statute [the Sherman Act], like many others
and like the cbmmon law in some cases, directs itself
against that dangerous probability as well as against the
completed result." Swift & Co. v. United States, .196
U. S. 375, 396. See also, American Tobacco Co. v. United
States, 328 U. S. 781; United States v. Aluminum Co.,
148 F. 2d 416, 431.
"[T]he second section [of the Sherman Act] seeks,
if possible, to make the prohibitions of the act all
the more complete and perfect by embracing all
attempts to reach the end prohibited by the first
section, that is, restraints of trade, by any attempt
to monopolize, or monopolization thereof, even although the acts by which such results are attempted

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

to be brought about or are brought about be not
embraced within the general enumeration of the first
section." Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, 61.
Assuming the interstate character of the commerce involved, it seems clear that if all the newspapers in a city,
in order to monopolize the dissemination of news and
advertising by eliminating a competing radio station, conspired to accept no advertisements from anyone who advertised over that station, they would violate § . 1 and.
2 of the Sherman Act. Cf. Fashion Origiitors'Guild v.
Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457, 465; Binderup v.
Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291; Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441; Loewe v. Lawlor,
208 U. S. 274; William Goldman Theatres v. Loew's, Inc.,
150 F. 2d 738. It is consistent with that result to hold
here that a single newspaper, already enjoying a substantial monopoly in its area, violates the "attempt to
monopolize" clause of § 2 when it uses its monopoly to

destroy threatened competition.'
7 "Section 2 is not restricted to conspiracies or combinations to
monopolize but also makes it a crime for any person to monopolize
or to attempt to monopolize any part of interstate or foreign trade
or commerce. . . . It is indeed 'unreasonable, per se, to foreclose competitors from any substantial market.' . . . The anti-trust laws are
as much violated by the prevention of competition as by its destruction. . . . It follows a fortiori that the use of monopoly power,
however lawfully acquired, to foreclose competition, to gain a competitive advantage, or to destroy a competitor, is unlawful." United
States v. Griffith, 334 U. S. 100, 106-107.
8 Appellants have sought to justify their conduct on the ground
that it was part of the publisher's program for the protection of the
Lrain market from outside competition. The publisher claimed to
have refused advertising from Elyria or other out-of-town advertisers for the reason that such advertisers might compete with Lorain
concerns. The publisher. then classified WEOL as the publisher's
own competitor from Elyria and asked its Lorain advertisers to refuse

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 155
143

Opinion of the Court.

The publisher claims a right as a private business
concern to select its customers and to refuse to accept
advertisements from whomever it pleases. We do not
dispute that general right. "But the word 'right' is one
of the most deceptive of pitfalls; it is so easy to slip from
a qualified meaning in the premise to an unqualified one
in the conclusion. Most rights are qualified." American
Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Bank, 256 U. S. 350, 358.
The right claimed by the publisher is neither absolute
nor exempt from regulation. Its exercise as a purposeful
means of monopolizing interstate commerce is prohibited
by the Sherman Act. The operator of the radio station,
equally with the publisher of the newspaper, is entitled
to the protection of that Act. "In the absence of any
purpose to create or maintain a monopoly, the act does
not restrict the long recognized right of trader or manufacturer engaged in an entirely private business, freely
to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties
with whom he will deal." (Emphasis supplied.) United
States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307. See Associated Press v. United States, 326 U. S. 1, 15; United States
v. Bausch & Lomb Co., 321 U. S. 707, 721-723.
3. The injunction does not violate any guaranteedfreedom of the press. The publisher suggests that the injunction amounts to a prior restraint upon what it may
publish. We find in it no restriction upon any guaranteed
freedom of the press. The injunction applies to a pubto employ WEOL as an advertising medium in competition with the
Journal. We find no principle of law which required Lorain advertisers thus to boycott an Elyria advertising medium merely because
the publisher of a Lorain advertising medium had chosen to boycott
some Elyria advertisers who might compete for business in the Lorain
market. Nor do we find'any principle of law which permitted this
publisher to dictate to prospective advertisers that they might advertise either by newspaper or by radio but that they might not use
both facilities.

O

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

lisher what the law applies to others. The publisher
may not accept or deny advertisements in an "attempt
to monopolize . . . any part of the trade or commerce
among the several States . . . ." Assaciated Press v.

United States, supra, at 6-7, 20; Indiana Farmer's
Guide Pub. Co. v. PrairieFarmerPub. Co., 293 U. S. 268.
See also, Oklahoma Press Pub. Co. v. Walling, 327 U. S.
186, 192; Mabee v. White Plains Pub. Go., 327 U. S.178,
184; Associzted Press v. Labor B6ard,30 U. S.103. Injunctive relief under § 4 of the Sherman Act is as appropriate a means of enforcing the Act against newspapers as
it is against others.
4. The decree is reasonablyconsistent with the requirements of the case and remains within the control of the
court below.' We have considered the objections made
to the form and substance of the decree and do not find
obvious errc.:. It is suggested, for example, that the decree covers a broader scope of activities than is required
by the evidence and requires unnecessary supervision of
future conduct of the publisher, that notice of its terms
must be published at least once a week for 25 weeks and
that ,the publisher for five years must maintain records
relating to. the subject of the judgment and keep them
accessible for governmental inspection.
While the decree should anticipate probabilities of the
future, it is equally important that it do not impose
unnecessary restrictions and that the procedure prescribed
for supervision, giving notice, keeping records and making
inspections be not unduly burdensome.
In the instant case the printed record contains neither
the entire testimony nor all the exhibits which were before the court below. It omits also material mentioned
ddring the trial as having been considered by the court
"A substantial part of the decree is printed in the Appendix, infra,
pp. 157-159.

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 157
143

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

when denying the Government's motion for a temporary
injunction. Under the circumstances we are content to
rely upon the trial court's retention of jurisdiation over
the cause for whatever modification the decree may require in the light of the entire proceedings and of
subsequent events. See Associated Press v. United States,
supra, at 22-23; United States v. Bausch & Lomb Co.,
supra, at 727-729.
The judgment accordingly is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK

and MR.

JUSTICE MINTON

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
APPENDIX.
"FINAL JUDGMENT-

"III
"Defendant The Lorain Journal Company is enjoined
and restrained from:
"A. Refusing to accept for publication or refusing to
publish any advertisement or advertisements or discriminating as to price, space, arrangement, location, commencement or period of insertion or any other terms or
conditions of publication of advertisement or advertisements.where the reason for such refusal or discrimination
is, in whole or in part, express or implied, that the person,
firm or corporation submitting the advertisement or advertisements. has advertised, advertises, has proposed or
proposes to advertise in or through any other advertising
medium.
"B. Accepting for publication or publishing any advertisement or making or adhering to any contract for the
publication of advertisements on or accompanied by any

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

condition, agreement or understanding, express or
implied:
"1. That the advertiser shall not use the advertising medium of any person, firm or corporation other
than defendant The Lorain Journal Company;
"2. That the advertiser use only the advertising
medium of defendant The Lorain Journal Company;
"C. Cancelling, terminating, refusing to renew or in
any manner impairing any contract, agreement or understanding, involving the publication of advertisements, between the defendants, or any of them, and any person,
firm or corporation for the reason, in whole or in part,
that such person, firm or corporation advertised, advertises or proposes to advertise in or through any advertising
medium other than the newspaper published by the
corporate defendant.
"IV
"Commencing fifteen (15) days after the entry of this
judgment and at least once a week for a period of twentyfive weeks thereafter the corporate defendant shall insert
in the newspaper published by it a notice which shall
fairly and fully apprise the readers thereof of the substantive terms of this judgment and which notice shall
be placed in a conspicuous location.
"9V
"Defendant The Lorain Journal Company and the individual defendants are ordered and directed to:
"A. Maintain for a period of five (5) years from the
date of this judgment, all books and records, which shall
include all correspondence, inemoranda, reports and other
writings, relating to the subject matter of this judgment;
"B. Advise in writing within ten (10) days from the
date of this judgment any officers, agents, employees, and

LORAIN JOURNAL v. UNITED STATES. 159
143

Appendix to Opinion of the Court.

any other persons acting for, through or under defendants or any of them of the terms of this judgment and
that each and every such person is subject to the provisions of this judgment. The defendants shall make readily available to such persons a copy of this judgment and
shall inform them of such availability.

"VII
"Jurisdiction of this cause is retained for the purpose
of enabling any of the parties to this judgment to apply
to the Court at any time for such further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate in relation to
the construction of, or carrying out of this judgment, for
the amendment or modification of any of the provisions
thereof, or the enforcement of compliance therewith and
for the punishment of violations thereof."

