OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

BRIGGS

ET AL

v. ELLIOTT

342 U. S.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 273.

Decided January 28, 1952.

The District Court in this case decided that cowtitutional and statutory provisions of South Carolina requiring separate schools for the
white and colored races did not of themselves violate the Fourteenth
Ai6endment, but ordered the school officials to proceed at once to
furnish equal educational facilities and to report to the court within
six months what action had been taken. After an appeal to this
Court had been docketed, the required report was filed in the
District Court. Held: In order that this Court may have the
benefit of the views of the District Court upon the additional facts
brought out in the report, and that the District Court may have
the opportunity to take whatever action it may deem appropriate
in light of that report, the judgment is vacated and the case is
remanded for further proceedings. Pp. 350-352.
98 F. Supp. 529, judgment vacated and case remanded.
Spottswood W. Robinson, III, Robert L. Carter, Thurgood Marshall and Arthur D. Shores for appellants.
Robert McC.Figg,,Jr.for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Appellant Negro school children brought this action in
the Federal District Court to enjoin appellee school officials from making any distinctions based upon race or
color in providing educational facilities for School District No. 22, Clarendon County, South Carolina. As the
basis for their complaint, appellants allied that equal
facilities are not provided for Negro pupils aAd that those
constitutional and statptory provisions of South Carolina

requiring separate schools, "for children of the white and
colored races"' are. invalid under the Fourteenth Amend*S. C. Const., Art. XI, ยง 7; S. C. Code, 1942, ยง5377.

BRIGGS v. ELLIOTT.
350

Opinion of the Court.

ment. At the trial before a court of-three judges, appellees conceded that the school faoilities provided for Negro
students "are not substantially equal to those afforded in
the District for white pupils."
The District Court held,. one judge dissenting, that the
challenged constitutional and statutory provisions were
not of themselves violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. The court below also found that the educational
facilities afforded by appellees for Negro pupils are not
equal to those provided for white children. The District
Court did not issue an injunction abolishing racial distinctions as prayed by appellants, but did order appellees
to proceed at once to furnish educational facilities for
Negroes equal tb-those furnished white pupils. In its
decree, entered June 21, 1951, the District Court ordered
that appellees report to that court within six months as
to action taken by them to carry out the court's order.
98 F. Supp. 529.
Dissatisfied with the relief granted by the District
Court, appellants brought a timely appeal directly to this
Court under 28 U. S. C. (Supp. IV) ยง 1253. After the
appeal was docketed but before its consideration by this
Court, appellees filed in the court below their report as
ordered.
The District Court has not given its views on this report, having entered an order stating that it will withhold
further action thereon while the cause is pending in this
Court on appeal. Prior to our consideration of the questions raised on this appeal, we should have the benefit
of the views of the District Court upon the additional
facts brought to the attention of that court in the report
which it ordered. The District Court should also be
afforded the opportunity to take whatever action it may
deem appropriate in light of that report. In order that
this may be done, we vacate the judgment of the District
Court and remand the case to that court for further pro-.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1951.
Opinion of the Court.

342 U. S.

ceedings. Another judgment, entered at the conclusion
of those proceedings, may provide the basis for any further appeals to this Court.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissent
to vacation of the judgment of the District Court on the
grounds stated. They believe that the additional facts
contained in the report to the District Court are wholly
irrelevant to the constitutional questions presented by
the appeal to this Court, and that we shoulk.note jurisdiction and set the case down for argument.

