fEBRUARY TERM i8iM.
variation of risk, to equalize which the 8th article of MUTUA,
the present rules-of the society requires an additional per ASSU. So' .
V.
centage to be paid by the present members of the cornpany, in conformity to what is to be imposed upon stqb- Kor-9 &
sequent applicants for insurance. And it is contended wisFMILthat the contract being cemplete between the parties, LER.
the insurers cannot add to thie consideration to be paid
for insurance. In general this doctrine is unquestiona,bly correct, buteculiar circumstances except this from
ordinary cases. This ,subject was considered in the
quoted case decided between these same parties in February, 1810. It is there laid down, and on reflection we
are confirmed in the opinion, that in the capacity of an
individual of the body corporate the Defendants are
bound by the by-law of the society as far as is consistent with the nature of its institutibn.
This case is within the 4th section of the 8th article
of those by-laws, and therefore the judgment below
ought to have been for the Plaintiffs.
Jadgmentretersed.

WEBSTER ANDFORD v. HOBAN.

i813.
Feb.

Present....III the udges except

24th,

TODD, JT.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district ofUponasaleot
Columbia, in a special action on the case, by the Plain- land at Aucif the
tiffs in error, against the-Defendantin error, for not pay- Stion
termAe tha
ing the purchase money for a house sold by the Plain- the
purchaser
shaliwithin
sh days, i
tiffs to the Defendant, at public atution.
his notes with

og and-Wf
The premises were publicly advertised, and set up at tw
domrs,
auotion-by a licensed auctioneer. On. the day of sale, he shall
fail
certain written articles, purporting to exhibit the terms,tO 'rPh ao
were read aloud by the .auctioneer in the preoence and ddys, then th
hearing of the Defendant and others assembled upon land to bere

that occasion, and the paper was also handed roundoof.th
and read by those present.
only reqi ire notice.

Of those articles, threefirt purchathevenser,
dor cauot

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WEBSTER
& FoxD

Art. ist, declares that the highest bidder shall be the
purchaser.

T.

HOBAN.

maintain

a
action against

Art. sd, requires that'the purchaser should secure
the purchase money, with interest included, by his promlssbry notes, with two approved indorsers9 payable in

the vendee for six and twelve

months,

abreach of

Art. StO, declares that the pitrchaser shall be allowed"cthirty days to comply with the 3d article, at which
"time, (in case of compliance,) he shall receive a good
, and complete title to the property On failing to comhe vendee
should in" ply withifn the 30 days, the property then to be rect
an at- cc sold on account of tie first purchasers"
torney to draw

the zontraet,
-uti a re-sale

shall have certained the

a deed, and

inserthisname
as purchaser.

The premises were struck off toL the Defendant, as
the highest bidder, at the price of 4,00 dollars ; -whereupon the auctionecr;m the presence of the- Defendant,
signed a certificate, at the foot of the articles of 'gale, declaring him to be the purchaser at that price.
An attorney was employed to draw a deed of bargain
and sale, and received instructions for that purpose,
both fi:om the Plaintiffs and Defendant, the draft of
the deed, with blanks for the date and the name of the
grantee, was presented toOihe Defendant, and left with
him for inspection, after examining it, he returned it to
the attorney, requesting him to insert his, the Defendants, name in the proper blanks, which he accordingly
did. Tins draught of the deed recited .the title of the
Plaintiffs, and that tile Defendant; being the highest
bidder, had purchased the premises at the sum of s,000
dollars, which he had secured to be pAid to the Plaintiff',
according to the terms of sale.
The breach ofthe agrgement alleged in the declaration,
was, that the Defendant had failed to give his promissory
notes within the 30 days, or at any time afterwards.
Th Court below decided that the Plaintiffs ,could
maintain no action up-on the contract, without first resorting to,a re-sale and ascertaning the deficit.
JdNs.,for the Plantiffs Un error,contended.
i. That the remedy by a re-sale was cumulative,

FEBRUARY TERM ISs.
and did not take away the right of action for a breach WESTERt
& :oliD
of the original contract.
'V.

2. That the draught of the deed (as to its collateral
effect, as written evidence of the agreement) having
been authenticated by an act equivalent to signing,
imported a substantive and positive agreement to' go
on with the contract, and to complete. the purchase, and
was not subject to be explained or controlled by the
original terms,
The authority to contract, he said, might -be by parol. although the contract must bil in writing. Roberts
on frauds, If .- S gden on Vendors,, 56.-Hoban gave
the att,rney verbal authority to draw the deed, which

amounts to an agreement in writing signed.
There was no argument for the Defendant in error.
.Marcli3d....LIVINGsToN, J. delivered the opinion of
the Court as follows
If there ever existed a valid agreement between these
parties in relation to the house in question, on which
the Court gives no opinion, the terms of it must be
sought for in the articles exhibited by the auctioneer, at
the time of sale. Of these, two only bear on this case.
These were,-", that the purchaser should secure the purh'chase money with interest by his promissory notes,
ccwith two approved mndorsers, payable in 6 and 12
cc months"-and" thatthe purchaser should be allowed
, thirty days to comply with these terms, at which
"time, in case of compliance, he was to receiye a good
"and complete title to the propertv, and on failing to
"comply within the thirty days, the property was then
J- to her e-sold on account of thefirst purchaser"
The Plaintiffs offered no evidence of any re-sale, or
of any deficiency ariging thereon, but contended, that
tihe remedy by a re-sale was merely cumulative, and
did not take away the right of action against the Defendant, for his violation of the contract.-Such is not
the opinion of this Court. The vendee, by the terms of
sale. had an option of taking the estate after it was bid
off to him, and in case of refusal, of having.it sold again
55?
VOl. VJ.

HOEAN.

'462
WEBSTER

& FORD
T.
iloiN.

on
on his accauat-It might have producea more thanhave

the first sale, in which case the surplus would obbelonged to him; or the same price might have been it
tained, and then he would have 'lost nothing-or
might have sold for less, and then by paying the difference which would have formed his whole loss, lie
would not have been exposed, as lie must be, if this action proceeds to have damages assessed against him,
by some uncertain and arbitrary or unsatisfactory rule,
0f these advanwlich mght be adopted by a jury
vantages which were r3served to him by the terms of
the auction, the Plaintiff had no right to deprive him.
The Court is ftirther of opinion, that nothing which was
done after the sale, at all varied the right of the parties.
Thejudgment below is affirmed with cost .

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY

18i.
MArch

SUPREME COURT. C S.

3d

IV.

WOOD.
to the Circuit Court for the district of
o
ERROR
M..... Maryland, in an action, of covenant" on a -policy upon
the secretary the schooner William and Mary "at and from Baltito Laguira, with liberty of one other neighborf the ,lgimoreport,
ostatef
1804,
extendand at and from them or either ofthem back
ed to the is-6"to Baltlore"-" Warranted by the assured to be an
land of CurraA
oa, the o-der American bottom, proof of which to be required
of tht lords ;the Uniled States only"
The letter -eof

commisltjiiers

of the admiral-

former judgment of the Circuit Court, in this

The
case, having been reversed (see ante, -vol. 6, p. 29,) and
,180-1,
Jalu
r'especting the•-.
blockadeb of tle cause remanded for a new trial, the verdict and judgMartinique & meat were again in favor of the original Plaintiff. The
Defendants, took only one bill of exceptions which staGatdalope'
ty of the Sth of

ted the execution of the policy, the sailing of the vessel
with proper documents as ii American bottom from
Baltimore on the 8th of March, i805, upon the voyage
insured, her arrival, off Laguira .on the 21th of the
same month, where she remained three days laying off
and on, vainly endeavoring to obtain pernission to en-

tel' the port, aid on the 3Ust sailed towards the port of

