FEBRUARY TERN 18i2.
right to assert his title in those Courts, unless there be scxoo4gR.
some law taking his case out of the general rule. It is
zxtherefore said to be the right and if it be the right, it is CHANGO.
the duty of the Court, to enquire whether this title has
v.
been extinguished by an act, the validity of which is re- ,'ADDON

cognized by national or mumcipal law.

&OTHERS.

If the preceding reasoning be correct, the Exchange,
being a public armed ship, in ihe service of a foreign sovereign, with whom the government of the United States
is at peace, and having entered an American port open
for herreception, on the terms on which ships of war are
generally permitted to enter the ports of a friendly power, must be considered as having come into the American territory, under an implied promise, that while
necessarily within it, and demeaning herself in a friendly manner, she should be exempt from. the jurisdiction
of the country.
If this opinion be correct, there seems to be a necessity for' admitting that the fact might be disclosed to the
Court by the suggestion of the Attorney for the United
States.
I am directed to deliver it, as the opinion of the Court,
that the sentence of the Circuit Court, reversing the sentence of the District Court, in the case of the Exchangbe reversed, and that of the District Court, dismissing
the libel, be affirmed.

ARCHIBALD. FREELAND
Ti.i2.
HERON, LENOX AND COMPANY

THIS cause having been argued by WiNDER, for
tbe Appellant, and P B. Mey, for the Appellees.
.6It the judges bezng present,

An account
sent

current
by a foreign
merchant to a
merchant in

this country &

Dtvma.., Justice, delivered the opinion of tbe Court notobjectedto
as follows

for two years,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EEL ZEi1AN

This case comes up by appeal from the decree of
Circuit Court for the District of Virginia.

th

*0.
'XIERoN &
OTHERS,

The record presents the following state of fiicts
A
bill in equity was filed by Heron, Lenox and Company
against Archibald Freeland, the Appellant, in the Ciris deemed
an cuit Coupt in the month of December, 1798.
account
It states
stited,
throws the that the company consisted of Nathaniel Heron, a subburden of ject of Great Britain, Samuel Lenox, also a subject of
Pioor uhor Great Britain, and James Freeland and William Gillin.
cerved k %eptThat articles of co-partnership between the said compait witheut Qb. ny and Archibald Freeland, of Virginia, were entered
3ectan.
into on the 15th of February, 1789, to commence on the
first day of April following, and to continue for five
years unless sooner dissolved by mutual consent. It is
stipulated by the articles that the business of the copartnership should ie managed and carried on in the
town of Manchestei, in Virginia, by Archibald Freeland,
under the firm of James Freeland. That there should
be no advance p4 on the goods furnished but the
charges- and commissiQn in Britain, and that all bounties, discounts and abatuments which might be received,
should be credited. The Complainants in their bill further state that Archibald Freeland had tie sole management of the affairs of the company, and the cae and
custody of the books and funds.
That during the existence of the co-partnership Heron, Lenox and Company remitted to James and A.
Freeland goods, wares and merchandize, to the amount
of several thousand pounds sterling, and had received
some payments, but that a considerable balanc u remain.
ed due to them on account of those remittances: that S.
and A. Freeland had been frequently called on to account and pay the balance due. That the firm of J. and
A. Freeland had been long since dissolved by mutual
consent; and that A. Freeland, retaining all the books
and effects of the company, had-refused to account and
pay the balance duel and they pray relief.
To tins bill A. Freeland filed his answer, admitting the
co-partnership, as stated, and that the business of th
concern had been conducted by him at Manchester, until the 10th day of April, 1795, when by contract the
whole of the property of the co-Partnery was vested in

FEBRUARY TERM imi2.
mm for his own use -and benefit upon the conditions PnEntherein expressed: and he insists that qpon -a -fair -set. LAND
tiement of the accourits between the Cqmplainants abd
T.
him agreeably to the custom of- merchants in London,-aoi &
as stipulated by the said contract, he owes nothine.
pTHP.S.
It further appears'that shipments of merchandize by
Heron, Lenox and Company were made from time to
time, during the first four years of the concern, amounting il the whole to more than 1 19,000 sterling, and
that remittances were made by A. Freeland in bills of
exchange and country produce during the same period
to a large amount, and that in the year 1793 the partnership was dissolved by mutual consent. A. Freeland
,continued to settle and liquidate the accounts of the
firm at Manchester; and in September, 1796; -wrote ,r
letter to Freeland and Gillin, of which the followming is
an extract. c6 Your claim will be among the first of my
debts that is paid-Jfior lhe indulgence I have met with,
I have to thank you, and mean to exert myself in order
to pay off the whole as early as possible."
During the pendency of this suit in the Circuit Court,
a cross bill was filed by A. Freeland against Heron,
Lenox and Company for discovery, which they answered by denying the allegations in the bill w ithout disclosing the evidence sought for. No exception, however, was taken to the answer.
An order had passed directing an account to be stated
by a commissioner appointed for the purpose, who reported that there was due from A. Freeland co Heron.
Lenox and Company a balance of one thousand one
hundred and sixty pounds seventeen shillings. and ton
pence sterling, to which report, various exceptions
were taken by the Defendant.
On the isth of December, 1809, the cause came oux
to be heard in the Circuit Court upon the bill, answer
and exhibits and the report of the commissioner, when
it was adjudged, ordered and decreed that the Defend.
nt, A. Freeland, pay to the Plaintiffs, Heron, Lenox
-& Co. the sum reported to be due by the commissioner,
at certain-specifled- periods, with interest fror,- te first
day of June, 1798., and costs: and the cross bill w49s

SUPREME COURT U. S.
dismissed x ith costs.
ant appealed

rainLAND

From which decree the Defeno-

10.

HEoN

&

The exceptions taken to the report of the commisin the court below have been urged on the part
of the Appellant in ties court, and may be comprized
under the following heads

oTnERS. sioner

1. That he has not given the Defendant credit for all
the bounties, drawbacks and duties which were allowed
to the Complainants on the purchase and shipment of
the goods in England, which he ought to have allowed
agreeably to the contract of co-partnership.
Q. That the commissioner adopted a mode of calculating interest contrary to the agreement of the parties
in April, 1795, and prejudicial to the Defendant.
s. That he allowed the Complainants a commission
on the sales of produce shipped directly to Cadiz, Lisbon and other places, where the property was consigned
directly to persons residing in those several places; by
them sold, and who charged the ordinary commission,
and )vho remitted the proceeds to the Complainants, in
London.
6. That he has not given credit to the Defendant for
275 hogsheads of .tobacco.
There was another excoption, -hut as it was abandonea in the argument by the counsel, it will- not be noticed.
With respect to the first, third aid fourth exceptions,
the record does not furnish the evidence necessary to
enable the court to form a correct decision from the
facts. The positive assertions of the Appellant are demed by the Appellees, and in proof both are equally
dqfective.
The Appellant claims a credit of 1 761 10 5 sterling
on 4ecount of bounties, drawbacks and discounts be
has bten allowed upwards of 1300 sterling, and the Appellees dqlly that he is entitled to more credit than 3s
gtveib avernug that more has not been received by

FEBRUARY TERM 1M8i.
them.

Each insists that the onus probandi ought to be

thrown on his adversary.

-ERBELAND
*).

It is 1roper to observe that it appears by the record nRON &
that Heron, Lenox and Company furnished A. Freez onTERs.
land with an account current annually for the four first
years of their transactions, and that no objection was
made to them. This circumstance, combined with the
ipromise contained in A. Freeland's letter of September
1796 to pay the whole balance due, affords room for
the application -of a rule of the Chancery Court and of
merchants to decide the controversy It is this: Whesi
one merchantsends an account current to another residing in a different country, between whom there are
mutual dealings, and he keeps it two years without
making any objections, it. shall be deemed a stated ac,
count, and his silence and acquiescence shall bind him.
at least so far as to cast the onus vrobandi on him.
The same rule is applicable to the third exception.
After an acquiescence of several years the account. is
considered as binding upon him, as lie has failed to
falsify'the allegations of the Appellees that the shipments of produce to Cadiz, Lisbon and Bourdeaux were
made pursuant to their orders and under their superintendance.
He has failed also to prove that lie is entitled to Ilie"
credit'insisted on in his foirth exception. To be entifled to tlc credit it is incumbent or him to prove that
the 25 hogsheads are exclusive of the 80 hogsheads of
tobacco shipped in the Mercury The record affords
no testimony whatever.
With respect to the second exception, it is considered
by this Court that the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the report of the commissioner as to the manner of
stating the account between the parties. The commis.
sioner adoped the-mode established in Virginra, and
which it is believed prevails generally throughout-the
United States but by the written agreement of the
parties inApri 1i794, it is stipulated that the interest
shall be charged agreeably to the custom and manner of
settling accoutnts z "London. In all other respects tle
opinion of the Circuit Court0s affirmed.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TnE-

It is therefore the opinion of this Court that the decree of the Circuit Court with respect to the second exv.
ception be xeversed, and that the cause be remanded to
fuor-oN & the Circuit Court, in order that an account may be
*OTHZRS. taken pursuant to the written agreement of the partisa-reeably to the custom and manner of settling accounts
in London.
LAwD

WELCH -o. MANDEVILLE,
1812.
March

2d.

Present....Ill the judges.
The refusal
of the Court

ERROR to the Circuit Court for tihe district of
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.

below to re-instate a cause
vhich has

An action of covenant was brought in that Court, in
dimmid, ,
the name of James Welsh, the Plaintiff, but really for
o ground for the use and by the sole ordersi of Allen Prior, against

awritoferror.
The normnal

Mandeville
and Janmeson, upon a contract for the sale
l

Plantiff nmy of land to them by Welch. At the second term after
had been entered against Welch at
disrmss ainsuitIns an office judgment
*1,1
brought

the rules, the Defendant, Mandeville, who .alone had
been taken, produced to the clerk a release under the
seal of Welch and an order from him to dismiss' the
the ause of the suit, whereupon the clerk made an entry on the
minutes of the Court, that the action was dismissed by
agreement of the parties. Afterwards, at the same term,
the attorney who brought tie suit in the name of Welch,
moved the Court to re-instate it, and grounded his motion
iupon his own affidavit and tli',papers mentioned therez
in. The affidavit stated, that in the autumn of 1799,
Prior, broughtto the attorney'3 bills of exchange, drawn
by Welch upon Mandeville and Jameson, for 2500 dollars
each, and an account in the handwriting qf Mandeville,
acknowleding a balance due. to Welch on the sist of
January, 1798, of 8707 dollars and 9 cents-to be paid
in the times and manner therein stated. -Prior, at the
same time, stated that Welch was indebted to lm and
titat he haa taken those bills in payment, which Ntanderille and 3ameson refused to accept, saying that Welch
name bv a
creditor who
ha
not anasgomlent:
of

