SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY

I83.
eb.

,I

- 16th

KORN AND WISEMILLER5

AbsentL...WASHINGTON,

J.

ERROR to the Circuit Uourt for the district of
he proieI is of buid- Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.

ings Alex.andrr,insured
by the society,

The Mitual Assurance Society against fire &c. was

yaato
h
vere bound by icroae
theatofas-,ncorporated by aofact of the legislature of Virgima in
iembly of Vir- 1795.
in
gna
1805, passed
and the

subseque

According to the original plan of the institution the

regulations of houses in the towns and country were blended together
the socetyds
pay
'~c. n -one
y sana y, to

ii
to each
pledged
general mass, and were mutualy
which might he respec-

tional pren- other, to make good the l6Sses
um upon he tively sustained by fire.
increased rate
of hazard according to tie

new -regulaEions of 1805.

In January, 1805, the legislature of Virginia, at the
request of the society, passed a law changing the ori.
ginal plan of the institution, by separating the town
buildings from those in the country, and making the
town buildings liable only for town losses, and the
country buildings for country losses. Thi law directed that there shQidd be' a re-valuation of the buildings
which had'been previously insured, and authorized the
society, as in the first instance, to fix the rates of hazard, and make such by-laws, rules and regulations as
they myght think prqper,
The society was authorized to recover its debts by
inotion, in a summary manner.
Under the act of 1805. the society made a new tariff1
of rates of hazard.

The houses of the Defendants were re-valued under
the act. The re-valuation was less than the original
waluation, but the rate of hazard, or in other words,
tie premium for the insurance, was increased underthe
new regulation,

FEBRUARY TERM-18:13.

397

By the.third section of a by-law -of the society made MUTUAL.
n January, 1805, under the authority- of their original Assv.sy'Y,
V.
act of incolporation and of the act of i805,.it is enacted,
&
xouNx
it
prove
shall
building
any
( that if the re-valuation of
- to be of less value than that at which it~was insured, WISEMIL,
" there shall be no demand against the society of.resti- wi.
cc tution of any part of the premium which may have
cc been paid, and the proprietor of such, building shalt
,"payj the additional premium (if the materials of which
"his building be erected, or its contiguity require it)
"which according to the new rafos of hazard ought to b
f'p az."
In July, 1805, the Defendants, Korn and Wisemiller,
agreeably to a form prescribed by the society, made a
declaration, under their hands and sgals, as follows.
fWVe do hereby declare and affirm, that we hold the
-abovementioned buildings, with the land on which
- they stand, in fee simple, and that they are not, nor
" shall be insured elsewhere, and that -we wilt abide, ob" serve and adhere to the.constitution, rules and reguhere-lations;which are already established, or may
' after be established by a majority of the insured, pre-

' sen~t in person or by representatives, or by the ma,,jority of thle property -insured, represented either by
f' the persons themselves, or their proxy duly auMthor' rized, or their deputy, as establisked by law, at any
-c general meeting to be held by the said assurance soSciety; or which are or hereafter may be established
I,by the president and directori of the society."

To this declaration were annexed, a plat, ,description
and new valuation of the buildings insured,
The buildings had been originally insured by the Defendants in the year 1796.
ThA sum now claimed of the Defendants was for the
additional premium arising out of the increased rates of
hazard according to the n- regulations,made in January,. 1895.
SwANx, for the Platntiffs im error.
This case differs from that of Atkinson, (ante. vql. 6,
-P.20g) wich wap for an additional prcmiini occasion.

398
AUTUAL

-SUPREME COURT Uo

°

ed by the tnereased vahwtim of the building-thisis for

Asst;. so'v, the additional preiiuum upon the, new rates of hazard.
^0.
KORN

&

In the former case between these same parties

cante

wisEmiL- vol. 6, p. i92_) it was decided by this Court
that thei.zn
proprietors of houses in Alexandtia, still continued

members of the society, notwithstanding their separa,
tion from the state of Virginia, and were bound by allthe by-laws and regulations of the society.

The only remaining question is whether the Defendants are liable for the new rates of premium. It was
just that the old members and the new should stand on
the same ground and pay the same. rates of premium
where the risl was the same.
him point has never
lIeen disputed in Virginia.
C. L,,

contra.

The former case has settled the point that the Defendants are boind by their original contract in 1796.
1 he legmlature had no right to alter or vacate that
contract. There was nothing unjust- or hard im the
case. The additional premium ought to be confined to
cases of excess upon re-valuation.
SAYAWN, In rCply.
The act of assembly of 1805 was passed at the request of the society, of which the Defendants were members, and bound by the acts of the majority.
MIarch 3d....JoHivso , J. delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows:
In the case decided between. Atkinson- and these
Plaintiffs, February term, 1810, the question arose on
.the construction of the 7th section of the act of 1805,
and the additional premium in that case was .imposed
upon a re-valuation without relation to a change in the
rates of premium, but resulting from the increased vilt-

ation.

In this case the sum demanded arises from the
changes made in the rates of prmiium. arming from a

fEBRUARY TERM i8iM.
variation of risk, to equalize which the 8th article of MUTUA,
the present rules-of the society requires an additional per ASSU. So' .
V.
centage to be paid by the present members of the cornpany, in conformity to what is to be imposed upon stqb- Kor-9 &
sequent applicants for insurance. And it is contended wisFMILthat the contract being cemplete between the parties, LER.
the insurers cannot add to thie consideration to be paid
for insurance. In general this doctrine is unquestiona,bly correct, buteculiar circumstances except this from
ordinary cases. This ,subject was considered in the
quoted case decided between these same parties in February, 1810. It is there laid down, and on reflection we
are confirmed in the opinion, that in the capacity of an
individual of the body corporate the Defendants are
bound by the by-law of the society as far as is consistent with the nature of its institutibn.
This case is within the 4th section of the 8th article
of those by-laws, and therefore the judgment below
ought to have been for the Plaintiffs.
Jadgmentretersed.

WEBSTER ANDFORD v. HOBAN.

i813.
Feb.

Present....III the udges except

24th,

TODD, JT.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district ofUponasaleot
Columbia, in a special action on the case, by the Plain- land at Aucif the
tiffs in error, against the-Defendantin error, for not pay- Stion
termAe tha
ing the purchase money for a house sold by the Plain- the
purchaser
shaliwithin
sh days, i
tiffs to the Defendant, at public atution.
his notes with

og and-Wf
The premises were publicly advertised, and set up at tw
domrs,
auotion-by a licensed auctioneer. On. the day of sale, he shall
fail
certain written articles, purporting to exhibit the terms,tO 'rPh ao
were read aloud by the .auctioneer in the preoence and ddys, then th
hearing of the Defendant and others assembled upon land to bere

that occasion, and the paper was also handed roundoof.th
and read by those present.
only reqi ire notice.

Of those articles, threefirt purchathevenser,
dor cauot

