PEBRUARY 9AM isM
THE UNITED STATES
'0.

1812.
Februs

5M.

THE BRIG ELIZA.

Present....allthe3udgeso
THIS was an appeal from the sentence 'of the Circuit A vesset
has
Court for the. district of Delaware, which affirmed that biUhi

proceeded to a

of the district- Court which dismissed the libel, and or- foreign port,

dered the vessel to be restored. She had beenseized contrar to
ro-the
embargo
of'Dlawre,
or having proby the collector of the district ofDelawarefor
act, of Janua-

"ceeded to a foreign port or place," (viz: to Havanna)

ry 9th, 1808,
is liable to be

contrary to the 3d section of the act of Tanuary 9th,1808, seized
a upon
(voL 9. p. iI,) ,,supplementary to the act, entitled an her return,
"act laying an embargo on all ships and vessels in the although that
"ports and harbors of the United States;" and for ha- pentyo
ins exported from the United States -sundry goods, &c. double hen
contrary to the 4th section of the adt of MAarch 12th, 1808, she should
"in addition to the act, entitled an act supplementary to not beseized
"the act, entitled an act laying an embargo," &c. (vol.

9. p. 71.)
By the 3d' section of the act of Jaiiuary9th, 1808, .it
is enacted, that if any vessel shall, contrary to the prow.
si6ns of that act, or of the act to which that is a supplement, proceed to aforeign port or place, such vessel
shall be wholly forfeited, ",and if the same shall not be
", seized, the owner or owners, agent, freightor or fac"tors of any such ship or vessel, shall, for every such
" offence, fbrfeit and pay a sum equal to double the va" lue of the 6hip or vessel and cargo, and shall never
c thereafter be allowed a credit for duties," &c. "eand
"the master or commander of -such ship or vessel, and
"calr other persons who shall knowingly be concerned
cin such prohibited foreign voyage, shall each respecctively forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding twenty
" thousand, nor less than one thousand dollars, for eve"ry such offence, whether the vessel be seized and' con" demned or not."
By the 4th section of the act of .4farch 12th, 1808, it is
enacted, "tlhat it shall not be lawful to export from the
VOL. V[I.
16

SUF"EW COURT U. S.
-u.STATES

T;
BILIG
ELIZA.

"c United States, in any manner whatever, ary goods
" wares or merchandize of foreign or domestic growth.
",or manufacture, anil if any goods wares or merchan"6dize shall during the. continuance of the actentitled
"an act laying an embargo," &c. ,and 'of the act supcplementary,' &c. "contrary to the prohibitions of this
" act, be exported from the United States either by land
"or water, the vessel," &c. "in whiich the same shall
,have been exported, shall, together with the tackle,
" apparel," &c. ";be forfeited, and the owner or owners.
- of suclrgoods," &c. 66 and every dth~r person knowingi; ly concerned in such prohibited exportation, shall each
-respectively forfeit and pay a sunt not exceeding ten
"i-thousand, dollars. for every such offence."

josnrxm, R.

INGEIIsoL-.,

for the Appellees, (the Clai-

mants of the vessel.)
Contended, that as the vessel was once out of thejurisdiction of the United States after the offence committed, the United'States could only sue for the penalty of
the double v~lue, and could. not seizethe vessel itself.
That the offence was compl-rte before the return ofz.the
vessel, and while she was absent she could not be seized-that the words ,,if the same shall nwt be seized, mean,
if the same cannot be seized. That as the vessel could
not be seized before her return, and asthe offence vas.
complete before- her return, the case had happened in
which the United States-were entitled to sue for the double value, and as the forfeiture of the vessel and -the
penalty of double value were not concurrent and cumulative remedies, the United States could onlly resoqtto
the latter. The right to seize the vessel Vas lost by
her escape, and could n ot be revived upon her return.
If the United States had brought suit for the penalty
before the return of the vessel, they might'have supported it, although the vessel should have returned before
judgment, Their rightof action was complete.
DAILAs,-conra.

There is no limitation of time foithe seizure:-the vesdel has actually been seized, and therebytheUnited States
have relinquished'their claim to.Ihe.double vale. If the
vessel could be seized, it is profiable ther United &i&tes

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
could not have recovered the double value; and m -an ac- -sft~r.
,T.
tion therefor it-would have been necessary for tlhe United
States to prove that the vessel could. not have been s.eiz- BRIG
ed. This could not be proved while the vessel was ly- 3Etii;'
-ing in a port of the United States, liable to seizure.
thejudges bezng present,
MIarch 5th. .i1l
M.-A SAix, Ch. J. stated that it -as the opinion. of
the Court that the vessel was liable to !eizur.e, but
that a majority of the Court was of opinion that the
offence was not complete until the arrival of the vessel
in aforeign port, but the facts of the case-do not appear so as to enable the Court to decide that .pont,,
the cause, is therefore continued for furthet proof.,

THE UNITED STATES
sg

'V.

Feb.

JONAH CROSBY.

.q4th.

THIS case is fully stated in the following opinion ,f The titleto
lnd can be

this Court, which w~s delivered by

aequtred and
allelost offly

SToRY, Justice, on the 2th ,of Febriuary, all the me
presen
judges being present.

y

place where.
I I
sioruate.
.ch land, '
A writ of intrusion was brought by the UnitedStatesu
against the Defendant in error to recover posesslon of
an undivided part 6f certain land lyn&.withm -the district of Maine. Upon the trial of the cause in the district Court of that district, a special verdict was found
by the jury, upon which the same Court gave judgment
in favor of the Defendantin error. This judgment was
afterwards 'affrmed in the Circuit Court of Mlassachusetts, and is now before the Supreme Court for a final
decision.

By the special verdict it appears that the claiin of the
United States to the. land in controversy is under on#

