FEBRUARY I'ERM 186-

43

1, .Thttlhe decicion of the.Court of c6mmon pleasfor strmii
Xo
the county of. York w .s conclusive. That, Court
had power and. authority to admit aliens to the right CHZSAof eitizenship-and zhaviig admitted the PlaintT, -the Pigz
grounds of their decisipn cannot now" be enquired into, Ixs, cO.,
nor the correctness-of their judgment questioned.
2. That if the record of aumission be not condlu.
rove, yet it was competent for the Plaintiff to prove now
by parol evidence the facts which did, at the time he
was admitted, entitle him to the benefit of the act qf the
26th ,ofMarch, 1801.
HIfPE.,for the Plaintiff in error, and M±iTiN, for
the Defendantzn error,
Submitted the question arising in this case withou k
argument to the CouRT, who, -Without giving, a more
particular opinion, pronounced the following JtDGMENT
This cause cam -on to be hearq on the transcript of
the record and was arguedby counsel, on consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion that the Circuit Coudr
erred in directing thejury, that the Plaintiff had faileit
in proving the"property, insured under the policy, to be
American property. It is therefore considered. by the
Court, that thejudgmefit of the Circuit Court be'reversed and anulled, and the cause remanded to that Court
to be further proceededin according tolaw.
.Judgmnntreversed.

WILLIAM WILLIAMS

i8
10

AND OTuERs, ArPrLLAxws,
,

V.

GEORGE ARMROYD

AII

OTHERs, APPEZ L

s.

Fen.

-Sm

-Absent, TODD, J.
THIS was an-,appe-al from the sentence of tife Circuit Aa

senenwe

fbeign trMCourt for the district ef Pennsylvania, which dismissed 11unnethe libel with costs.

bhOW-tte

=M~

awnea

tha~ffie. schenner

'omnpRs b4y Wifliwd- and dthersi citizens of theoti~t,
United States,
V.
wian tkfn in a ckrgo of molasses at Martinico,
sailA-i9eD d
0r-aAugustj-4809, for'New Lmodoin That
M.rugus. oil t6 mkt'day she ,was,piratically seized on the
high
..
. seasby t avtnedisthooner-q sheWingno.colours, but as.
iiapioperty seyted to be- froniw,'G taloupe, and carried into St.Marut
iertan
eifblctins84Where the captai's paperswere.taken from Jitn,
contrary to the-anl the vqgS ,and'd -g dytdined as it was asserted,
to
law of'nations, Wait the e~eat of R-trial; That on'the .th
of Septem;
or netr bdr,, the. prize-master left, St, Martin's -for GuadarMhis; astI lbupe, with a copy of the schooner's
,
ets, under pre-*hich
bag
fienodeclar tence, of causing proctedings to be idstituted' in
the
ed by tie lc.Feiech-:oidft of Admiralty inh
shirnd: That'ordhe
W"Iasve ad112 3 d of-September the master tha
of the- Fortitde,-vet'
e3 ecutive deSetmbr
pamemntg, of St. Bartidomews,
on his return
informed, that
tbb govern- durnfg his.absence and
the Governor had was
ordered the 'vessel
United States; an&:caqqo t6 be sold at pblic
which was Alone aid
chane the o.~ught )rthe Governor dnd saler;
one of his counril; as-the
propertyofthe Libellants believed. That immediately
after the sale;
tienined A the; Governor took possession of the vessel,
and on the
sale by tlh dofI
+W'
a
autorty
of
4)ct6ber the cargo was
landefr, and 97 hogsheads
the captors of thie.hrolagAs
ere 'hipped 'on board another vessel
before '-setrto Pfiiladelihia, where they arrived,
consiqned to -Armcetif con- roy.and others, of. whom-the Libelants.
demanded itg
Marmed by but 'hoy refused to deliver ito or to account for the
vasuch sentence, lueOf it.

and
ig go0
lio.tl"

A French ti-

A tlatmm was:interposed by George Armroyn o-Co.
waloupe W in,
behalf of Richardson J- Carty. ahd others, hich 'statjumssdction
oted,.that on the.1st of Auguist,
hProper seizt809, and long before,
a onh war existed betvreen Great Britain and
France, that
seasforbreach the Frorlitude, -boing an Anercan vesswl -at
peace with
of e-llau the French emptee, on her voyage from Martifico,
a
British eolbny, 'where she had been trading
the
enemies of the French empire, durinig the war,with
in vioSo
st, lation of the'decrees and-pgulations of that empire, .was
Martins, and seized by a French privateRr, and carried
SL Marthere sold bytin%,as lawful prize to- the captors, andtoher
r papers
hunal at Guh-I

5

o

,

h

ti to a French-.tribunal, havig rompetent Ju' .lirthe sent
ordr (SE
Dutch
govenor of St.
tion, at Guailaloupe, under the a e ant extuive doMartins bea

thO
fore eonde- hmnion andjuridici:mn of the
'French empire, but the
xation, withory
no-papers Prere
captured
,Ta
on
the
passage
to-"1
GuadAloipe.
'
ou.-ny afh-That T vessel .an,
cargo, being so carried
't.
'rch trawa- Martins, were there bonafidesold by order oftheinto
Dtktch

FE3RUARY TERM
t

8.

42.

governor at the island, to whom such rightbelonged, by WtT.TAMj
the laws afid constitutions or the said island, and the & OTHfl$
gooda in question, part of th~e cargo, were bo afidepiir-

T.

Wereafterwards bona fidk purchased

.

chased, by a certain I L. Lapierre, .and by hn. bonafid8 pmnOyn
sold to a certain Jibraham Goneieyter, from whom they &onrjk_;
by Richards 4

CGarty, for accourit of.themselves and others.-

iial
at Gyada;
ipupe

The

By qonsent -of parties; a setence.-as pssed piofbr- Anerian
owner tanndt
Ia in the "Digtrwt Court, for the Libellants.
reclaim, inthe

Vourts el thid
country, hid

In the Circuit Court, upon the appeali the Chiindants proprty
eXhibitedt a further answer, stating, that by a decree of ben seized
Athe Registry of the Comnission for prize causes of the and condemfiisland of G'iadaloupe,. and its d.'pendencies, duly con-d
C dt
ourt
under
dina.renci
stituted a Court of Prize by the Enipzror of France on the Milan dethe 12th of October, 1809, the schooner Fortitude, and cree..
her cargo, were condeumned, by a si-nten.-e which is set
forth at large in the answer, the substance of which sentence is incl'uded in the following extract, viz.
"It results from the examination aild from the 4tnaU lysts .f the papers just 'mtntioned, that the- sclouner

it. Fortitude, captur,-d by the'French privateer, Le Frz"cpon, is fhe property of a citizen of the United Stats
et of America, thit she sailed from New London, bound,
I to Martimco, t which place she sold her cargo, ana
' took in another of molass,'s for the said
port of New'
" London, and consequently she has incurred the. penal"cty, pronounced by the 3d article -of the Imperial de"cree, .which directs new measures against the maritime
cc system of England, and was given at the Royal PaI lace of .Milan, on the 1Tth of September, 1807 incc serted in the bulletin of the la~si No. 169, which ar;
" tide is as follows
cc Every vessel- whate~ori and whatever be ber cargqo
tl which shall have cleared from any English port, co" lony, or cointrvoccupied by English troops, or which
i shall be bound to any English port, colony or country
,"occupied by EngliAI troons, shall be good prize, as
"having infringed the present decree. Such vessels
is shall be captured by our men of war, and awar&Ad
" to the captors."
VOL. VII.
65

SUPREM
WiLLIAms

& OTHERS

10.
ARMIIOYD
&OTH.RUS.

S...

-COURT U. Sd

" And after,having beard the opinion of the inspector
of marine, we have declared, and do declare, the
"cAmerican schooner Fortitlude to have been well and
", duly captured by the French privateer, Le Frhpon,
" and to be forfeited to the owners and crew of the said
,privateet , consequently the said schooncr Fortitude,
"

"together with her cargo, is awarded to the captors to
"cbe sold in the customary form, if -the ale has not al'.ready taken place, and the proceeds shall be distri"buted conformably to the ordinance concerning cap, tures," &c.

On the 19th of April, 181i, the Circuit .Court reversed the sentence of the District Court, with costs,

from which sentence of reversal, the Libellants appeal•ed to tins Court.
LiAN

LAw,

for the ippeants.

This condemnation was founded nponfthe .Mitan 4
'ree, which is admitted, on its face, to be in violation ok

the law of nations. It does not proceed on the ground of
its being the property of an enemy, nor contraband -of
var, nor for violating, a blockade, If it appear from.
tWe sentence itself, that the'condemnation was no upon
any ground recognized by the law of nations, nor upon
the violation of any municipal right acknowledged by
that law, this Court will not carry it into effect. France
may, by. her own municipal laws, regulate her own
trade, but she'has no right to control ours. beyond her
territorial jurisdiction, further than to protect her own
belligerent rights, ackowledged by the law of nations.
If we violate no such right, and if we do not carry our

property within her territorial jurisdiction, she has no
right to regulate our trade. Her condemnation,

grounded upon regulations which she has no right, according to the law of nations, to make, is void. But
even if she had a right to condemn, her condemnatioU
can transfer ifo title, unless the thing itself be in her
possession, at 'the time of condemnation, so that the
possession may pass with the title. Here the property
never was within thejurisdiction of the Court at Guadalope. It had been sold and delivered by the Dutch governor, before the coudenmation. It does not appear
that he had any authority either from the captors, or
from the Court, to make the sale. The purchaser can-

FEBRUARY TERM 18iS3d
Aot derive from the governor a better title. than -the go- W ILIAMs.
vernor had at the tinie of sale.
& oTfArRs
I. R. INGERSOLL, contra.
Itis acknowledged that a tribunal, professing to be
a Court of Admiralty, has condemned the property in
question, and that the Appellees possess it by virtue of'
a capture on the high seas. Thins is prmafacze evidence of the correctness of the title, and 'throws- the
onus probandiupon the Appellants.
A Court of Admiralty is a Court whosejurisdiction is
co-ordinate with that of every other throughoutthe world.
The Admiralty law is " of all times and of all nations,"
and its decrees, so far as they uffect the thingitself, and so
long as they remain unreversed, can never Ie questioned. The end being gamed; it is an imnmaterial question,
wliat.were the means, as they are sanctified by- the end.
Whether the proceedings are erroneous, or not, according to our notions of right and wrong, whether they
are predicated upon a mistake of the law, 'or of the fact,
or are founded upon regulations consistent with, or re
pugnant ,to, the law of. nations, ,are questions wholly
immaterial. The se.ntence has sealed the proceedings,
and those questions can never judicially come before thil.
Court.
in confirmation of these positions, it might be sufficient to.refel- to the decisions of this Court, where the
principles are settled.
In the case of Rose o. Rimel j, 4 Cr 292, this Court
refused to confirm the property of the alleged purcliaser, because the Court, passing sentence, had neither
the actual nor constructivejurisdiction, nor power, over
,the subject in controversy Theponit upon which it was
decided was, that the vessel and cargo were seized, out of
the territorial jurisdiction claimed by the French go.
vernment of St. Domingo, for a breach of municipal
regulations, and were .never. carried within that jurisdiction, but were sold by the captor at a foreign port.
Two Mu~dges, (the ChiefJustice aid Judge Washing.top) thought that, in order to give jurisdiction, the pro-

10.

ARMROYD.
&OTHERS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
.IYAMs perty should have. bce taken as prize of war, mnQ
Z.0THERS bio;.glit ztfa prqsdfia. Three (Judges Cushing, ChKa
and Livingston)-were of opinion; that it would be con.
T.
A.aROYD cjusivy even under a municipal regulation, provided it
&OTHIFRS. were carrjt~d to the country of the captors. Judge Johhson considered, it conclusive at all events. But even in
ief Justice says, in p. 276, 66 If the
that case, the
" Court of St. Dompgo had jurisditCon, the sentence
C' is conclusiv. "
In the case of Hudsoiq and others v.
Guestier, and La Font -. Btgeow, I Cr 2V3, it is de.,
cideo tfiat, In case of prize of war, a condemnation,
while lying in a neutral port, will bind the property,
an that the pame principle applies to a seizure. mado
within the territory of a state, for a violatiQn of its munctpatlaws, p. 296. Judges Chase and Livingston dis§eiifedg because the v ssel was not carried into a French.
port for trial. Judge Johnson adhered to his former
opinion, that it was immaterial whether the capture was
iiade in the exorcise of mumeipal or bellige)ent rights, or,
wlpt6hdr witlin thejursdict lional limits of Fraqce, where
she is supreme, or upon the high seas, where her authority is concurrenlt With that of other nations. P 298,
In the case of Craudson and others, v. Leonard, I Cr.
13, it was (lecided, that a sentence of condemnation
for breach of blockade, was conclusive evidence of a violAtion of the warranty of neutrality in a policy of insurance.
In the case of Rpse & Himely, above mentioned, the
inridental questions were decided in favor pf our pnsi.
tiolls, for here. it was prize of -war, seized and condenined within the jursdiction of the Court, yet it may
be said the issue of that case was adverse. If so, it was
expressly over-ruled in Hudson ,k Smith, v. Guestier, 6
fr. 281. The Court there unnnmously decided, that
tho jidge of the.Frnch ,Court must have had a rightto
Oispese of every question made in behalf of the owner
of the property, whether it related to the jurisdiction of
the Court? or arose out of the law of nations, or out of
the French decrees, or in any other way and even if
the reasons of his 0 udgmerit should not he satisfactory,
it would he no ground For a foreign Couit to rescind
his proceedings, and to r' fuse to consider Ils sentence as
conclusive on the proper y , and that, as the title was
ohanged by the condemnation at Guadalope, the original

FEBRUARY TERM -sis.
awner had no right to pursue it in the hands of a wiLiS
Vendee.
& OTHEIRS
But this as no new principle of law originating with
v.
the prp.serqc state of the world, which would seem rather ARMRoYh
to forbid it, sihce the rapacity of Courts of adnuralty &oTHnRs.
on the one side, arid their acknowle.dged subserviency
to the governing pwer on the other, dia.nish the respect whlh would otherwise be due to their sentences.
The conclusiye effect of a foreign sentence in changin,1he property seems to have been first judicially decidel in the case of' Hughes v. Cornelius, 2 Shower, 2412.
Sir XP. Raymond, 473. Shin. 59. Lord Raym. 893. 935.Vern. :Z1. The authority of tis case has never been
questioned. The otily question has been -as to the collateral effect -between underwriters and the assured in
cases of warranty in a policy of insurance. A!nd eve4
there, whenever the condemnation has been upon. the
ground of its being the property' of an enemy, the sentence has always been holden to be conclusive., without
regard to the circumstances by which the Court came to,
that result. The sentence is conclusive as to whatever,
it pprports to decide. Park. 355. 360, 361-2, Rob.
173, The Chrzstopker. 4 Rob, 35, The Henrck -and
Marta. 5 Rob. 255,, The-Comet. 4 Rob. 3, The Helena.
3 Bos. Pui. 505, Loth"nv. Henderson, 7 T. ?. 52k,
Calvert o. Bovilte, 7 T. R. 681,, Geyer v. .Bguiki-.
East, .73, Oddy v. Boville. 3 Bos. ,'Put.,201,. Barnng
P. Clagett. 5 East, 99, Barng -v. Royal Exeh. Ins. Co.
5 East, 155, Bolton v. Gladstone. Such also, has been
the course Of decisions in the diffierent American States.
i Binney, 295, Calhoun v. Penn. In. Co. 3 Binney, Z20,,
Whernot v. Faussat, 2 Johnson's .A' Y cases, .451, fr derheuvel v, The Unitkd In. Co. S. C. 127
Such being the acknowledged effect of a foreign con l
deonation, the only remedy for the injured party is a
i'esort to the Court of the captors for redress, If that
government will not afford it, -hemust apply to his own,
which will make it a national concern to.be settled either by negotiation or war, if it be deemed a matter of
Otficient importance., Doug. 614,. Le Caux o. Eden.
The fact that the Milan decree was a-violation qf the
%wof naitions, and of our netitral rights, can make no
ifference. Fa if an unjust, condenmation, professing

SUPRM1E COURT U. SS
to be founded upon a Aust law, be conclusive, there is
& oTMnx$ no reason why a condemnation, founded upon an unjust
law, should not be equally conelusive.
-v.
wuniAms

A'RM OYD

&o,Ti&Rs,
------

The question is not, whether this Court will lend ifs
aid to.carry into effect the Milan -decree, but whether it
will reverse the sentence of'a foreign Court, and destroy vested rights- acquired under such. a sentence by a
bona flde purchaser.
But it is said the purchase was made before the sen.
tence of condemnation was passed, and was therefore
void. Thit; however, can make no difference. The
effect of the condemnation is not to vest the property,
but to sanctify'a title which was vested by the capture,
to confirm all miitermediate acts, and to give ajudicial
sanction to that which was alreadv sufficiently firm in
262. 12 .JIMod.
point of fact. i Wits. 21i, 2 .ziun,
134, Rex v. Broome. Carth. 398..'S. C. The condemnation does not give property, it only establishes the
fact that the captor had a lawful title by the capture.
-These maritime sales in market overt give an indefeasible title. 4, Johnson, 38, 39, Gr.nt M -..Lachlam. In
cases of foreign attachment, if the attached goods are
perishble, or from their pituation are exposed to peculi r danger, the-constant practice is to order a sale, and
glch sales are valid, although the attaching creditor may
fail to support his claim.
It is an established principle, says the, Court of errors, (2,Johnson's cases, 458,) that any person purchasing will be secure,
LAw, iU reply, cited the cases of Geyer v. Aguilar,
Pollardv. Bell, Price v. 'Bell, Bird v. Aitppleton, .Mayne
v. Walter I Rob. 14-, and Havelock e. Rockzwood, 8
7'. R. 268, to show that there must -be a good cause foi
condemnation by the law of nations. He cited also,
.i Cr 221. Doug. 5721, and i Rob. 139; to the same point,
and to show the limitation of the general principle of
conclusiveness of a foreign sentence. As to the extent
of the power of France over neutral commerce, lie cited
X.Tarten!'s Law of .Nations, 332, and to show that the
Berlin and Afilan decrees were in violation of.ourneutral rights, and were ,so declared by our government,
'e referred to the President'smessage tawCongress of the

FEBRUARY TERMTA.isa.

151h of December, 180, aud cited I .r _092, Bose v. wxux.ams

Himely.

3 Rob. 99, 333,

.2 Rob.'239.

&.OTHERS

To show that the Court must have jurisdiction, be- ARMROTD.
fore its decree can-be conclusive, he cited 4 Or -17i. 3 &OTHER .
Rob. 96. To support the position that g sale before condemnation is rot valid, he cited JXarten's 35,. ! Cr. 250.
1 Browne'scviil law, 251.

i Rob. i39..

DANA, on the same side.
Tils is an appeal by a citizen of the United States t)
his govbrnment for redress for a violation of lis -neutral
/rights by a foreign sovereign. This Court exercises
that branch of, the government, which, in some. courntries of Europe,. is exercised by the sovereign himself.
The only question is, whether this Court haspower to
declare void a condemnation founded upon a decree.
which the legislathre and the executive of the United
-States have declared to be a violation of our. neutr l
rights, and contrary to the law of' nations. This.is a
question never before agitated in the Courts of the United States.
This vessel has not violated the law of nations, isor
the municipal law of any state or nation.
The sovereign 'power of a nation cannot be exercised "
on the high seas, unless over its own subjects or pirates,
orjure belli. It can affect hostile property only A municipal regulation can not rightfully, affect neutral property, beyond the territorial juripdiction. On the high
seas all nations are equal. Thisproperty, having never
been within the French jurisdiction, can never have of,
fended against French municipal law. The Court had
no jurisdiction under the municipal law of France irr
such a. case. Suppose, in ease of capture and re'capture, the first captors proceed to libel and condemn
the property in a French Court, whii it is safe in a
port of the United States, having never been within the
jurisdiction of France. It can never be pretended that
such a condemnation would be valid.
The title and possessioii-must be deliveredttogether at
the same time, or the sentence will not be conclusive ?n
rem.

632

StPURE~mE cQTJ1?T U. &

In the cases of Rose k I1imelyj and Zidson e Mt&& OTZERS tier, the pi'operty whs sold by an agent of the M t,
v.
but the Dutch governor if St. Martin's, had no- authoARMnoYD rity from the tribunal at Guadaloupo. It has been de&OTRERS. cided in the Courts of the United $tates, 'that Holland
is not a dependency of France. Captors cannot sell or
dispose of the property captured, before the capture has
been adjudged lawful By a competent Court. It is the
interest of all nations to enforce thuis rule. The oDinosite prattice would lead to incalculable evils.
WILi!AMS

.Mfarch 8th; ...MARsHAim; Clief Justic delivered the
opinion of the Couit as follows
A Yessel, with a cargo belonging in part to the AV4
pellalts, was captured ?)n the'high seas, on the 20th of
August, 1809, by a French privateer, and carmed to
St. Kai-tins, where the vessel and cargo were sold, by
order of the goverhori at public auction, and part o
tiv cargo purchased and sent to the Appellees in Philade phia.

After the sale, the.vessel and cargo were con-

"femned by the Court of' prize, sitting at Guadaloupe,
professedly for a violation of the Mfilan decree in trading to a dependence of England. On the arrival or thS
-goods, they'were claimed by the ori nal owner, who
filed a libel for them. In the District Court they were
adjudged to him. The Circuit Ci)urt rev rsed that senterike, and from -the judgment of the Circuit. Court
there is an appeal to this Court.

It appears to be settled in this countryi that the tentence of a competent Court, proceeding mnrem, is con.
clusive with respect to the thing itself, and optrates as
an absolute change of the property. By such sentence;
the right of the former owner is lost; and a complete
title given to the person who clams untler. the decree.

INo Court of co-ordinate' jurisdiction can examine the
sentence.

The question, therefore, respecting its con-

formity to general or municipal law, can, never arise,
for no co-ordinate tribunal is capable of making the inquiry. The decision. in the, case oT Mhidson .r frtithq
v. Guestier. reported-in 60) Cranch, is consilered as
fully establishing this principle.

It is contended that the sentenc&4 in this asei has nOt
•changed-the property, because

FEBRUARY TERM

18±3.

fst; The sale was made under the direction otthe go- wLIAMS
vernor of St. Martins, before the sentence of condemna- & OTHERS
tion was pronounced.
2d. The sentence proves its .own illegality, because
it purports to be made under a decree which the qover.ment of the United States has declared to be subversive
of neutral rights and national law.

ARMROYP
&OTHERi.

Ist. In support of the first objection, it has been urged, that the jurisdiction of the Court defends on the
possession or the thing, that a sentence is a formal dcision, by which a forcible possession is onverted into
a civil right, and that the possession being gone, there
remains nothing on which the sentence can operate.
Howeverjust this reasoning may, be when applied to a.
case, in which the possession of the captor has been'divested by an adversary force, as in the cases of rccapture, rescue, or escape, its correctness is not admitted when' applied to this case. The possession is not
an adversary possession, but the possession of a person
claiming tinder the captor.

The sale was made on the

application of the captor, and the possession of the vendee is a continuance of his possession.
The capture is made by and for the government, and
the condemnation. relates back to the capture, and affirlms its legality.
2d. That the sentence is avowedly made under a decree subversive of the law of nations, will not help the
Appellant's case, in a Court wich cannot revise, correct, or even examine that sentence. If an erroneous
judgment binds the property on wliich it acts, it will not
bind that property the less because its error is apparent.
Of tliat'erior, advantage can fie taken only iii a Court
wluch is capable of correcting it.
It is true that in this case there is the less -difficulty in
saying, that the edict under which thns sentence was pronounced, is a direct and flagrant violation of national
law, because the declaration has already been made by
the legislature of the Union. But what consequences
attend this legiglative declaration? Unquestionably the
VOL. ViI.
56

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILLIAMS legislature which was competent to make it, was also
& OTHERS competent to limit its operation, or to give it effect by
the employment of such means as its own wisdom should
v.
AR.AROYI) sug"gest. Had one of these been, that all sentences pro&6IrtHtiRS. nounced under it should-be considered as void, and incapable of changing the property they professed to condemn, tlht- C,'urt could not have hesitated to recognize
the title of the original owner in this case& But the legislature has not chosen to declare sentences of condemnation, pronounced under this unjustifiable decree, absolutely void. It has not interfered'with them. They
retain therefore the obligation common to all sentences
whether erroneous or otherwise, and bind the property
which is thei" object, whatever opinion other co-ordi
nate tribunals may entertain (if their own proprietv, or
of the laws 'under which they were rendered.

k7te sentence ?s qffirmed -with costs,

SMI'T AND BUCHANAN
,M -eh

9th.

0.

THE DELAWARE" INSURANCE COMPAN-

.,bsent...,WAsHINGToN,

A, verdit "fur

J. and ToDD,

J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
opinon Marvland, iman action of covenant on a policy of in

the
Defendauts subject
to the

of the Court surance.

bpon the points
-reserved,"

does not an- The jury found a verdict ,fo.Ji the Defendants, subject
ourt
Ieon the points reser-d." And
thoize andA- the oinn of
Defndt
otn 7,
salute juilg.
meat-for thejttdgment was thereupon rendered ,,for the Defndants
eori,1.
Defendants,
."
unless the
pqipts reserv-

.......

edad'the l- The Plantiffs, by their counsel, moved the Court behe
~
'te
eevd'
-wuon of the o it
Court thereon, lOW that the points reserved (which the motion states.
are stated oa without stating the fact- out of which they arose) and
the ord. the opinion of the Court upon those points, shoiuld be
entered on the record.

