SUPR11E COURT, U. 'S.

m !
Feb.

B1011)ND AND ANOTHER v. JAY.

2j'.h

Absent....TODD, J.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of

The etep-

Mbrvlandsta- Karyand in an action of assbmpsit brought by Bond
tute of limita- and BrooKs against Jay, surviving partner of Samuel
tions, in favor -

of "such a. Jay and. Gabriel Christit, trading under the firm of

"counts
cc
concerms as Samuel
]
" Jay and Company, upon an account for mer"conerns- the chandize
sold and delivered. The Defendant, Jay.
"chandize be- pleaded the statute of limitations of Maryland, 175,
ctween met23, which limits actions of assumpsit to three years

"chant& mer"chant, their after tie cause 'of action shall have accrued.
"factors and
"servants,reld
"which are
To this plea the Plaintiffs replied "cthat at the-time
" notresidents ";4when the several sums of money in the Adeclaration
"with
tis
his mentioned -grew due, viz. on the 20th of Marcb, 1799
"1province,
t
he
o
applies todeal. " and long before, to wit, on the 27th of November, 1797,
ings
between..
4I nd floni thence until the said 20th of March, and
m rclh nt
from
creditor resi- " lhe said last mentioned day until the suing forth the ori(ling 'out of' " ginal writ in this suit, tile Plaintiffs were merchanb%,
ala tor
- carryng on trade and merchandize

diog
land. itn farv-

"

,ot

"

under the namie

and firm of Bond and Brooks, and residing and car-

And.
odcr "9ryin on trade without the limits of the district
aforeto take the C4
said, and of the state of Maryland, 'vz. at Philader.
case outof the 1phia, in the state of Pennylvaiia, artd that at th
exception,

sulficie,,t

toaverthatthelie

creditor -.re-

several times atd
aforesaid tthe saJd Jay
were merchants, trading under the firmadof Christie
Samuel
,Jy
Cmay
eiigo

turned to,
Jay and Company, and residing and carryin on
cme, ani w:,3 "trade at and within the district aforesaid, and that on
ithin the
"6the said several days, and on sundry days. from the.
state of Mairland afler the " tircf Of those days to the second of those days the
cank of action " Plafhtiffs were enga-ged in mutual trade and merchanaccrued, and
,nore than 3 "dize with the said Jay and Christie, by reason of
vears before "which trade and of and concerning .the same, the
suingig th "said several sums of money in the declaraion men-

"tioned grew due to the 'Plaintiffs, and this they are
"ready to. verify, wherefore," &c.
To this replication the Defendant rejoined, that the

Plaintiffs ought ijot to have and maintain their said action by reason of any thing alleged in their replication
aforesaid, because, protesting, that the said several
sums of money in the declaration aforesaid mentioned,..

FEBRUARY TERM. i8im
do nst concern the trade and merchandize between merchant and merchant, and also protesting that .the
Plaintiffs have not continued to reside without the state
of Maryland and 4istqict aforesaid since the contracting and growing due of tle said several sums of money,
and until the suingout the original writ in this cause,
yet, for answer to the said replication, the said Samuel
Jay says that true it is that at the time of the contracting and growing due of the said severhl sums of money,
lie, the said Samuel and the said Christiv, were merchants and residents within the state and district of
Maryland aforesaid, and continued to reside thereii
until the decease of the said Christie, and the said
Samuel has continued to reside therein ever since, and
that the several .ums of money in the declaration mentioned had become due and were payable on the 20th of
March, 1799, to wit, at the district aforesaid, and that
afterwards, to wit, on the 20th of May, 1799, the Plaintiffs returned to, came, and were within the'state vforesaid, to wit, at the district aforesaid, and tat afterwards, to wit, on the 18th day of October,. 1799, the
said Joshua B. Bond came to, and was within the said
state, viz. at the district aforesaid, and that the original writ in this cause was sued forth on the 19th day
of May, 1809, and not hWfore, and so the said Samuel
Jay saith that three years and more -.had elapsed and
expired, after the return of the Plaintiffs and of the said
Joshua B. Bond to, and after their being within the
said state and district, and after th- contracting and
growing due of the said several sums of money, and beire the suing out of the sijid original writ in this cause.
viz. at the district aforesaid, and this the said Samuel
is ready to verify, wvherefore,".&c.
- To this rejoinder there was a general demurrer and
3oinder. Whe Court below overruled the demurrer,and
adjudgedi be rejoinder to be good, whereupon judgment
was rendered for the Defendant, and the Plaintiffs sued
out their writ of error.
The act of assembly of Maryland, 17W5, ch. 23, enact, "cthat all actions of. trespass quare dausumfregit;
"all actions of tfiespass, detinue, sur-tTover, or replevin
"for taking away goods or chattels, all actions of ae"count, contract, debt, book, or upon the case, other

BoND

V.
jAy.

SUPl BME COUUT U. S.
nox

v.
SAY.

" than such accounts as concerns the trade or merchandize
", between merchant and merchant, their factors and ser"'64cants,
6

c

WHICH ARE NOT RESIDENTS WITHIN

THIS

ROVinC.4 all actions of debt for lending," &c. &c.

66 shall be commenced or sued within the time and limit-66 tation hereafter expressed, and not after," &c.
The third sedtion contains a clause saving to persons
within the age of 2t yearsfeme covert, non compos mentis, unprsoned, or beyond seas, the right of suing within
the respective times limited after the removal of their
several disabilities.
The cause was argued by HARPER for the Plamtnffs

in error, and

IxNKNEY,

fttorney General, for the De-

fendant in error.
February 22d..., MARSHALL,
nion of the Court as follows:

Ch. T. delivered the opi-

This suit w~s brought by the Plaintiff, a merchant of
Pennsylvania, against the Defendant, a merchant, of
Maryland, upon an account which grew out of their
trade. with each other as merchants. The Defendant
pleaded the statute of limitations, to which the Plaintiff
replied that the Plaintiff, who regided in the state of
Pennsylvania, and the Defendant were employed in mutual trade and merchandize, of and concerning which the
said several sums of money in the said declaration mentioned grew due. The Defendant rejoins that the Plaintiff came within the state of Maryland in 1797, and that
the original writ in this cause issued on the 5th of July,
1808, and not. before. The Plaintiff demurred, and
upon argument the demurrer was overruled and the bar
adjudged to be good.
A writ of error has been sued out to the judgment of
the Circuit Court, and'the questions in the cause are,
1. Is the replication good in itself?
2. Does the rejoiner avoid the repli.ation and sustain
the plea.
These questions, depend on the act of' limitations
passed in 715 by the legislature. of Maryland. The

FEBRUARY-TERM i8is.

-M

Whnterial part of that adt is in these words "Be it en'facted, That all actions, &c.other, than such accounts
S,as concerns the trade of merehandize between mer,"chant and merchant, their factors and servants which
4c are not residents -within thz 4 province," &c. ",shall be
"°commenced or sued within three years ensuing the
" cause of such action, and not after."
By the Plaintiffs it is contended, that i2 either party
.reside without the provihce the case ts within the exception •-by the Defendant, that to bring the case wilhin the exception both parties must reside without the
province.
It is so unusual for a legislature to employ itself in
fiaming rules which are to operate only en contracts
made without their jurisdiction, between persons residing without their jurisdiction, that Courts can never
19 justified in putting such a construction on their
words if they admit of any other interpretation which
is rational and not too much strained.
This, it is thought, may be done in the case now to
be decided. The words " which are not residents" refer, it is said, to both parties. Plintiff and Defendant
They comprehend all the persons previously enumerated. Let this be conceded.
Then read the exception as if the word - both" or
c all" were inserted. It will stamd thus ,otherthan
such accourits as conceris the trade or merchandize between merchant and merchant, their factors and servants which are not both or all residents within this
province." The plain meaning of the sentence so read
would be that accounts between merchant and merchant
either of whom resided out of the province would come
within the exception. It is admitted that without the
Word " both" or a all," the more obvious meaning of
the.sentence is that for which the Defendant contends,
Yet it will bear the same construction without, as with
either of those words, and the subject-matter of the law
so clearly requires this interpretation that the Court
thinks it may be made.
The rejoinder is founded on the third section of the
VOL. VI .U

33oW
T.
Sy.

35-1
ii ND
W.
QiAy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

act which contains the usual exceptions in fAvor of infants, &o. and allows three years after the removal of
the impediment to bring their suit.
It is contended that since the act of limitations runs
against a person beyond sea from the time of his coming
into the country, so from analogy it ought ,to run
against a non-resident merchant from the time of his
coming, though for a mere temporary purpose, within
the country.
The Court cannot assent to the correctness of this
reasoning. To render it applicable, the rejoinder ought
tso Wtve averred that the Plaintiff had become a resident
of the state of Maryland more than three years before
the institution of the suit. Not having done so, the
words of the exception have never ceased to be applicable to the Plaintiff; and, consequently, the statute has
never commenced to run.
It is the opinion of this Court that the Circuit Court,
erred in overruling the demurrer of the Plaintiff to the
rejoinder of the Defendant.in this cause, and that thb
judgment be reversed and anndUed, and the cause remanded with instructions to render judgment on the
said demurrer.6 favor of the Plaintifl and that further
proceedings may be had therein according'to law.
Judgmnent reversed.

i8iS.

PRESTON v. TREMBLE.

.Absent ....TODD, J.
ERROR to
equitaie
thle be merg- East Tennessee,

.i

part

-m relief in
.f gh
t

the Circuit Court for the district of

who had dismissed the Plaintiffs bill in
Chancery, upon demurrep, for want of equity.

T e bill stated that Preston, the Complainant, had
Sbelttle to a tract of land in the state of Tennessee, but
Sbeng e- the Defendant, Tremble, fraudulently and deceitfully entered into it, and holds him out.
to l.

