Vzt£ft 0nfit -w- retidered, which remains n full force, 'B

1b.
these proceeduings, the Plaintiff became liable topay the
4nitwo said flodgsett the amount ot the said note and costs of
=
, suit whih he had actually paid. The declaratioA then
proceeds to state, that, by reason of the prenuses, the
Defendant, Abraham Lindi, -became liable t pay tei
hluntiff, tl~e amount of the said note and costs of suit,
and, being so liable, he assumed, &c.

Under the mere assignment from &indo to Welch, it
is clear, that this suit i. not sustainable; because it is a
part ofthe contract, that Luido shall nd be liabktiuld'
his zndorsemeht. The count is also defective, In tid
dtating that the indorsement was made or Vvluabla
consideration, and also in not averring that Liidd ht
actually Irecerved the money for which the note wai
given.
lT'hese are substantial faults, which are not- eurdd T4
a rerdict. The declaration presents a cae in w R&
ther¢tvaa no liability on the part of the Defendant, Id
the Plintiff, which can sustain the assumpsit found by
the verdict.
.There ip no error, and the judgment is alirTned;

T9Z STATE OF NEW JERSEY v. WILSON.

021

ieginctive

At,dechhng
fa
ai
.. s hich
cert

n

should belur.
chased for the

lndian,, shciuld
not, thereaf4

er, be subject

go any tax,
constuteda
'Contrda,

'.HTES case was submitted t this Courto upon C
statement of facts, without argument.
March 3d....ll the Judges being present,

~sij -s-, Chl utc
usic,
.
delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows

This w a writ of error to a. judgment rendered ift
the
Court of last resort in the state of New Jersey, Dy
o by rescind..
a subsere
. wich the Plaintiffs allege they are deprived of a right
aeient legisla. secured to them by the constitution of the United Statea,

hich could
notbe

FEBRUARY -TERM ii2.
Tfie case appears to be this.

STATE

oF

IV.JERSEY

V,.
;The rembdi t of te tribe of Delaware Indians, previous to the-20tt4 February, 1758, had claims to a con- wisON.
siderable portion of lands in'New Jersey, to -extinguish
tive act. Such
which became an object with the government and proact
repealing
being void
prietors under the conveyance from King.Charles 2A -1,
to the Duke of York. For this purpose a convention was

under that

held'in February, 1758, between the Indians and corn- cslauseoftheo
missioners appointed by the government of New Jersey; the United
at which the Indians agreed to specify particularly the Sttes -vlic
all prohibitsa
lands which they claimed, release their claim to
others, and to appoint certain chidfs to treat with corn- passing any
mnssioners on the lpart of the government for the final law zmpalrnw

extinguishment of their whole claim.

On tile 9th of August, 1758, the Indian depluties mtr
the commissioners and delivered to them a proposition reduced to writing-the basis of which was, that
the government should purchase a tract of land on which
they might reside-in consideration of which they
would release their claim to all othr lands in New Jet'.
sey south of the river Rariton.
This proposition appears to haie been assented to
by the commissioners, and the legislature on the 12th
of August, 1758, passed an act to give effect to this
areement.
This act, among other provisions, authorizes the
purchase of lands for the Indians, restrains them from
granting leases or making sales, and enacts -that -the
" lands to be purchased for the Indians aforesaid shall
",not hereafter be kubject to any tax, any law usage or
"fcustom to the contrary thereof, in any vise notwith9'

standing."

In virtue of this act, the convention with the Indians
was executed. Lands were purchased and-conveyed to
trustees for their use, and the Indians released their
claim to the south part of New Jersey.
The Indians continued 14 peaceable possession of the
lands thus conveyed to them until some time-in the year
1801i when, hanymg become desirous of migrating frolo

of contracts.

SUi3REME COMTM. 0L S.
STATE OF the state of NiwJers,-v,
I. JERsEY, Stockbridge, in the state

and'of joining their brethren at

of New York, they applied for,

and obtqined an act of.the legislature of Nekv Jersey,
wiLson. authorizing a-sale-of their land in that state.
v.

This act contains no expression in any manner respecting the.privilege of exemption from taxation which
was annexed to those lands by the act, under which
they were purchased and settled on the Indians.
In 1803, the commissioners under the last recited act
sold and conveyed the lands to the Plaintiffs, George
Painter and others.
In October, 180&, the legislature passed an act repealing that section of the act of August, 1758, which
exempts the lands therein mentioned from taxes. The
lands were then assessed, and the taxes demanded. The
Plaintiffs thinking tbemselvs injured by thi assessment,
brought the case before the Courts in the manner prescribed by the laws of New Jersey, and in the highest
Court of thcstate, the validity of the repealing act was
affirmed and the land declared liable to taxation. The
cause is broutght into this Court by writ of error, and
the question here to be decided. is, does the act of JSo0
vmlate the constitution of the Unitect Stateq.
The constitution of the United States declares that no
state shall " pass any bill of attainder, ex Tostfacto law,
or law imlairing the obligation of contracts."
In the case of Fletcker v.. Peck, -itwas -decided in this
Cou rt on solemn argument and much deliberation) thaot
this provision of the constitutionextends to contracts-to
which a state is a partyi as well as -to contracts between
in1dividuals. The question then'is narrowed to- the en-.
quiry whether in the case stated, a contract existed
and. whethier that contract is violqtedby the actof 1804.
1.

Every requisite'to the formation of a contract isTbund
in the pr9ceedings betweei; the then colonv -of NevJersey and the Indians. The subject was a purchase
on-the part off.the, gqyernment of extensive claims of
tim Indians, the extinguishment of which would quiet
the'tit to alarge-poftion dltge province. A- propat,
sifion to this effect is pade, the t.rqs'stipulated, the

FEBRUARY TERM 1-M.
consideration agreed upon, which is alract of land with STATE OF

the privilege of exemption from taxation, and then m N. -jFBRsY

Vo.
consideration of the arrangement previously made, one
.of which this act of Assembly is,stated to be, the Indians wivsoN.,
execute their deed of cession. 'This is certainly a con- ...
tract clothed in forms of unusual solemnity rThe privilege, though for the benefit of tlie Indians, is annexed,
by the terms which create it, to the land itself, not to
their persons. It is for their advantage that it should
be qnnexed to the land, because, in the event of a sale,
on'which alone the question could become material, the
value wodld be enhanced by it.
It is not doubted but that the state of New Jersey
might have insisted on a surrender of this privilege as
the sole condition on which a sale ofthe property should
be allowed. But this condition has not been insisted
on. The land has been sold, with the assent of the
state, with all its privileges and immunities. The parchaser succeeds, with the assent of the state, to all the
rights of the Indians. He stands, with respect to this
land, in their place and claims the benefit of their contract. This contract is certainly impaired .by a law
which would annul this essential -part of it.
Judgment of tLe Court.
Tlis'causb came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record of the writ of error of the state of New Jer
sey, and was argued by counsel on the partof the Plain,.
tiffs in-error on consideration whereof. it is the opiiion of the Court, that there is error in the judgment of
the said Court of errors in this, that the judgment of
the said Court is founded on an act passed by the legis4
lature of the state of New.Jersey, in December, 180 f,
respecting
act
an
of
entitled. "cAn act to repeal part
lands purchased for the Indians ;" which act$ in the
opinion of this Court is fepugnaut to the constitution
of the United States, in s much as it impairs the obligation of a contract, and is, on that account, void. It
is therefore considered by the Court, that the saidjudgment be reversed, and annulled, and that the cause be
remanded to the said Court of errors, that judgment
may be rendered therein annulling the assessment in
the .proeeedings mentioned, so far as the same may respect the land in the said proceedings also mentioned.

