SUPREME COURT U. S.
EtILKER

V.
rAMMR.

After the opinion was delivered, P B. Key meiiton
ed that in the opinion the Court had said that an account ought to be taken, but the decree only directs
that the proceedings below should be according to law.
*We wish for leave to answer fully before an account
be taken, and wish it may be understood that this Court
does not mean to preveiit a further- answer.
MASH.ALL, Ch. JT

isi2,
March

That is the meaning of'the Court.

BARNITZ'S LESSEE v. ROBERT CASEY.

10th.

Present....qfl the Judges.
Thestatute of

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of 51a-

Maqyland has rylandq in an ejectmeit brought by the lesst e of Barnitz
not declared against Casey, to try the title of Barnitz to certain real
how an mites.
tate estate estate in Baltimore.
shall descend,
which was deThe facts of the case were stated by STORY, . in delitived to the

Itate from Vering the opinion of the Court, as follows
his half bro-

tiler, or irom
his brother of
On or about the 6th
the whole seized of the premises

of Feb. 1780, Daniel Barnitz died
ih the declaration mentioned, hayblood, orfrom
L/is son or ing, by-his will, devised the same to his wife, Catharine
daughter, or Barnitz. in fee, and leaving issue, by his said wife, an
from his wife,
but such e- 'only chil'd and heir, Elizabeth. Barnitz, who intermarstates are left ried with one Charles ,OPConnell, by whom she had all
to descend as only child, John. XcConelt; after whose birth,
and
at common
la%,w.
sometimein 1781, Charles01,IConnelldied. Afterwards, Is
A devise to widow, Elizabeth, intermarried with one John Hanmond,
A. in tee, and
it' he shall die by whom she had one child only, .tohn Barnitz Hammond.
qnder the age and died on the 22d of April, 1788. After her death,
of 21 years,
,
H
and without
0oh71 Hammond intermarried with Elizabeth Agnderson,
issue, then to and died on the 7th of April, 1805, leaving issue by
B. in fee, " a
.od
executo. the lst marriage, Jane B. ttammond and Henry Hamry evise;
n
, his heirs at law, who are now alive, under whom
if B. die be-the Defendant in qlectment claims. On tile 7th of April.
eonthe
fore
tlgencyhap- '179-, Catharate Barnit- died seized of the premise.,

FEBRUARY TER4 iSis
having first 'duly made herlast will and testament. By l3ARNIT!P
that Wiill she devised to the said John JI.Con LE SSmE
ne, in fee, two certain parcels of land& She then deT.
vised another parcel of lands including her mansibn- tsBY
house to the said John Barnitz Hammond, to the intent
pe", itupon,
deand uses following, viz. subject, (as to "the rents thereof)" volves
to certain trusts for the maintenance and education Of biera
the said John Barnztz Hammond, and for the payment so frmi hclt
of certain spe,'ific deb'ts of the testatiix,

- to the thuitoniugt-

6 use of John Hammond, the father, for and during cy happen,
" the minority of the said John B. Hammond, if he shen it vests
in
6c Live,shll
so long;shall
provideds theIonabsolutely
said John Hammond him only lvho
66 shall maintaGn
clothe and - educate th, said John B; hilnself
ban flen-make
heir to
4 Hammond, out of the rents thereof during his mino- h. the
txecu$" rity, and from and immediatelv after the said John B. tory devi ea.
although
66 Hammond shall arrive to the ago of 21 years, or the And
it be.the
l~ir
- death of tle sail John Hammond, his father, which at lawof B.
execuyez the
"shall first happen," then to the said John B. Ham- tory
devise
inond in fee. The testatrix then provides, " and if it thos devovin
- should hereafter happen that the said John 0f.Connell oi him, is lnot

mered i the
6should die before he shall arrive to the ago of 21 years3 precedent
es" and without issue, then I give, devise, and bequeath tate, but.on
" all the estate of the said John OI, Connell, which is the death of
A. devolves wd
cc hereby dvised to him, to go immediately to the said the next heir
"9John B. Hanrnwnd, his heits and assigns forever, of B. One te" And if it should hereafter happen that the said John nannot
cc B. Hamniond should die, before lie shall arrive to the maintain eject"c age of 21 years, and without issue, then and in such ment against
his o-tenant,
"case,
6
after the payment of my debts as above mention- without !ctual
"c ed, I give, bequeath, and devise," &c. (the same land ousterand mansion-house befor- divised to John B Hammnond)
,6 to the said John Hammond, is heli's and assigns for" ever, and also all the residue of estate herein before
" or after devised to the said John B. Hannnond, and
" not hereby otherwise disposed of, I then, and in such
cc case, give and devise the same to the said John
s; Al.Gonnell, to hold to him, his heirs and assigns 4or46ever, from and immediately after the death of the said
" John B. Ihmmond as aforesaid, and in case of the
i death of both of my grandsons, under age and withc out issue as aforesaid, then I give, devise, and beat queath all that part of my estate whuch I have herein
6 before given tq the said Tuha Mi Connel, to Charles
" Barnitz, of," &c. "to hold to him, his heirs an
at,.
6, signs forever."
VOL. VIJ.

SUPREME COURT Uo S;
The testatrix then provides for the payment of her

AiNiITz's

LESSEiE

v.
CASEY.

debts, by a.sale, if necessary, of some of her 'ots of
land, on or near church-hill, in Baltimore, and then
proceeds, "cAnd I give and devise all the rest
and residue of the said lots on or near church-hill
"aforesaid, -and all my estate therein (subject necc vertheless to thedevises aforesaid) to my said grand" sons John .4f, Connell and John B. Hammond, their heirs
6and assigns forever, to be equally dilided between
" them, share and share alike, as tenants in common,
" and not as joint tenants." After some intermediate
bequests, the testatrix devises "all th rest, residue,
" and remainder of her estate, real and personal, to the
, said John .M,'Conneland John B. Hammond, their heirs
"6and assigns forever, to be equally, divided, between
" them, share and share alike."
--

John ,7it'ConneU attained his full age of 21 years, married, had issue, and afterwards on the 7th of April,
i802, died without leaving any surviving issue. And
John B. Hammond died on the i2th of February, 1808,
under the age of 21 years, and without issue.
The lessors of the Plaintiff are the children and heirs
at law of Charles BarnitX, who was the only brother of
Daniel Barnitz, 'the testator. And upon the defect of lineal heius, the said lessors clim as next heirs, in blood,
of Joh& L',Connell, on the part of his mother Elizabeth
Barnitz, the daughter of Damel Barnitz. It is admitted that tli'inheritable blood is extinct on the part of
Charles .OfConnel4 the father of John J.,Connell.
At the death of John J3. Hammond, the property consisted of four descriptions, which it may be proper to
enumerate.
:. The land specifically devised to John AI'Connell,
with a limitation over to John B. Hammnond.
2. The land specifically-devised to John B. Hammond.
with -a limitation over in fee to his father.
3. The moiety of the church-hill lots, and the rest
duary estate devised to John .?f,'Cownell, in fee.

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

h. The moiety of the church-hill lots, and the residu- EARNITZ'S
ary estate devised to JTohn B. lammond in fee, with a li- LESSED
V.
mitation over to John .4,'Connell.
CASEY.

At the thne of the death of Catharine Barnitz, (as
she survived her daughter) her two grandsons, MConnell and Hammond, were her heir' at law.
IfAp.RE,

for PEaintiffu&error

L. As to the devise to John .',Couneli, with limitation
over, in case of his death under age, and without issue,
to J. B. Havmond. This was a fee simple in McConnell,
with a conditional limitation, and-not an estate tail. 1.
Fearne on Contiugent Remanders, 9, iO, Dublin ed. 1795.
id. 409. Powelt on Devises, 261. 7 T. It. 589. Shears
V.Jfi'ey. Plowd.40 . 3 Co.ifO. Carthew,175. Dyer,127
nnuelPs arrival at full age he had an abUpon J. .
solutc estate in fee, because the condition never could
happen which was to defeat his estate.
As he took by purchase, and not by descent, and aq
at the time of his death lie left neither child, nor brother or sister of the whole blood, the estate descended,
according to the- 4tatute of descents in Maryland, to his
brother of the half blood, John B. Bunniond.
J. B. Hammond took it by descent, through his mo.
ther, and therefore the estate descemuled to hm ,, on the
part of his mother," withih the meaning of the statute.
He certanly took by descent, and not by purchase,
and the commtne mawuluim, wich connected him with
his brother, must be traced through his mother.
The statute was intended to prevent escheats pro defectu sanguims, and to provide for all cases.
The legislature meant to comprehend all cases in three
classes.
1. Where the estate had descended to the intestate, on
the part of the father

-. Where it had descended, on the part ofthe mother; and

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ARNITeZ S
LESS E
".
CASEY.

3. Where it had vested in the intestate by pmrchase,
and not derived from or through any of his ancestors.
The Court will not suppose that the legislature has
omitted to provide for the case where the estate has descended from a brother to a brother, but will rather
place the present case in the secorld class.
Thelegislature did not mean to limit the2d class to cases
where the estate had dcscendedfi'om the nother,becauseit
provides, that if there be no child or.descendant of the intestate, the estate shall go to the mother And it would be
absurd to say, that an estatewhichhad descendedfiont the
mother, should descend again to the Inother. So if the
estate had descended from the mother's father directly to
th, mother's son. it would be-an estate which had descended to the son on the part of his mother, and yet it had
not descended either from or through his mother, for
the estate had never vested in her, The statute must
mean every case where the blood must be traced through
the mther , every case where the mother is a link of
the chain which connects tie intestate with the person
from whom the estate descended to him.
This estate, therefore, must he understood, as having
descended to J. B. arm mlond,. oa the part oj Ins mother
and therefore, inasmuch as at his death, lie left ncther
child nor descendant, nor ipother, nor brothcr or sister
of the blood of the mother, nor descendant of such brofler or sister, nor grandfather on the part of the mother,
nor descendant of such grandfather, nor father of such
grandfathr, and inasmuch as the lessors of the Plaintiff
are the descendants of the father of such grandfather,
the estate must, by the provisions of the statute, descend
to then.
2d. The devise to John .AD'Connell, in fee, of the moiety of the church-hill lots, and of the general residuum,
vested in him a fee simple estate from the beginning. He
ook by purchase under the will. It dt.scended to J. B.
Rammona by the same rule of descent as in the former
case, and by the same construction of the statute has descended from hiini to the Plaintiffs,
3d. The third case under this will, is that of the spe-ific devise to J. B. Ilamnond, with limitation over,, in

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
case of his death under age and without issuep to John ARNITZS
.TtConnell.
LEssEE
IV,

.B. Hammond died under age and without issue, so
that the fee devised to him was defeated, and would have
vested immediately in John X.MConuell, if he had been
alive, but he died in the life time of 3. B. Hammond. In
whom then did it vest? By the rules of the common law,
Ja4n MConnell had such an interest in the devise, as was
descendible to his hei's. Who were his heirs Not
they who were such at the time of his death, but they
who answered the description of his heirs at the time of
the death of J. B. Hammond. 2 Fearne, 529. td. 535.
2 Wilson, 29. Goodrght v. Searle.
John MConnell, if lie had been alive at the time of
the. death of J.B. Hammond, would have taken the fee
by purchwse, and the lessors of the Plaintiff were the
only persons who could at that time entitle themselves
as his heirs, there being no heirs of the paternial line
then living,

MAeRTn and PnmNuEY, Attorney General, contra.
The executory devises were void, because the contingency is the dying ,,without issue" indefinitely, and
not limiting it to the case of dying without learmng issue alive at the time of his death. i Fearne, ul. 2
Righjt.
Fearne, 74.. 144-5, 154. 1 Sid. 148, Cotterson -o.
I.Bac. Jib. 251. (Gw'illim's Ed.) 2 Fearne, 187, 358.
1 P Wins. 198, Nichols -v.Hdoper 2 Fearne, 245.
2Fearne, 206. 159.1.54. 1.6ff. 2 H. Bl.358.
The limitations over being void. each took an absolute fee simple in the lands devised to him.
Upon the death of John .MiConnell, the estate descended, according to the provisions of the statute, to J. B.
Hammond, who took, not by way of descent at common law, but by force of the statute. The preamble of
the statute shows that the legislature meant to abolishi
the law of descents altogether,
The expression "con the part of the mother," means,
from or through the mother. Now this estate never came
to 3. B. Hammond from or through his mother Under

CASEY.

-SUFREME COURT U. S.

3d branch of the statute, every estate which comes
to an intestate, 16 and not dervedfrom or through either
-c of his ancestors," is supposed to have come by pmrchase, and is to descend accordingly
This estate was
not derived to the intestate, J. B. Hammondi from or
through either of his ancestors, and therefore is to descend as f it came to hin by purchase. This construction makes the statute Provide for All cases, whereas the
construction insisted upon by the Plaintiffs, leaves he
cases where the estate has descended or passed by force
of'the statute from brother to brother of the whole
blood, or from son to father, or from husband to wife, or
from wife to husband, wholly unprovided for, for these
are not cases of purchase, nor of descent from ancestors.

DAMVITZ's the

LEssEE

V.
CASEY.

If, howevev, the case of Hammond be casus onussus,
then the estate may descend at- common law through
tie line of his father.
One argument of the Plaintiff's counsel was built upon f lie absurdity of supposing that the statute directed
an, state to descend to the mother, which,had already
descendedfiom her. But the statute only directs it to
descend to the mother, by way of illustration, so as to
lead to the heir
But if the' limitations over were good, then John
•iConnell died seized -of an hereditament, a descendible
interest, which went to his heir. Who was his heir1
This same J. B. Hammond, so that either way the 'absolute estate in fee vested in him as a purchaser, and
descended to his heirs. Again, the 3d section of the
statute declares, c that no right in the inheritance shall
"accrue to or vest in any person, unless such person is
"in being, and capable in law to take as heir at the time
"of the intestate's death." Now thess Plaintiffs were
not " capable in law to take as heirs" to John M, Connello" at the time of his death." So that they are prohibiteid by the-statute from taking the benefit of this executory devise, even if they could do so by the common
law. Under the statute J. MCi'onnel had, at his death,
an inheritable interest in the land devised to J. B. Hammond, with limitation over. The statute makes no difference between vested and contingent interests ;Ahey
all descend alike.

FEBRUARY TERM is3.
But there is a fatal objection to the Plaintiff's recovery IiAItqITz's
in this case. The lessors of the Plaintiff are tenants YEssE.E
'.
in common with the Defendants, and one tenant in cornmon cannot maintain ejectment against another, without cAsY.
proof of actual ouster Such ouster is not proved.
IAutPER, vt reyly.

The Defendants have confessed lease, entry und ouster, and therefore, an actual ouster need not b.e proved.
The whole questiont -is as to the meaning of the
words " descend on the part of the mother."
There are only two modes of acquiring property, viz.
by purchase and by descent, "bv the act of the party,
6r by adt of law.
Descents are either lineal or collateral. Lineal is
from the ancestor in the direct descending line. Collateral, is where you first ascend to the common ancestor,
and then descend until you find the heir.
The construction of the statute adopted by- the Defendants, allows only one kind of dcscent-lineal. The
statute uses the mord ",descent' generally, comprehending both kinds. It says from or through either of
his ancestors. " From" applies to lineal descent,
•,through" to collateral. If the statute includes collateral descents, there is an end of the question. If a man
takes an estate by reason of his mother, he takes through
his mother. If a man takes as great grandson from
I. S. the estate has not passed through the father or
grandfather, yet lie takes thron5 h them. So in tracinq.
a collateral descent,' the estdte does not go through the
intermediate links, yet the heir claims through them.
As to, the executory devises. The c'rntingency was
not too renote nor indefinite. It must be determined
Within 21 years. If the contingency had been simply
dyzng without zssue, there would be weight in the objection, but it is dying -under age, and without issue, so
that if le came of age, or had issue, the estate became
absolute. -Here are not two conditions, but two facts
making one condition.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
YAVXITz,s

LESSEE

V.
CASEY.

---

The Plaintiffs do not take as heirs, but as purchsers
under the will by the descriptiorr of their persons, if
they answer the description of heirs at the time the contingency.happens on which the executory devise takes
effect, they must take. A possibility is not descendible. They take as -purchasers. This is an answer also to the objection raised upon the 3d section of
the statute- They do not claim as heirs, and therefore
are not 'within the statute. The statute refers to their
natural capacity to take. It alludes to the disability of
alienage, attaint, &c. and was intended to exclude posthumous children in cases of collateral descent.

Afarch lith
WAsITxNTol,

18i3.
DuvAiJ,

Present....MARSXU$

Ch.

.

aud STORY, 3.

The Court having taken time since last term to advise,
STORY, J. (after stating the facts of the case,) delivered the opinion of the Court as follows

It is true, that the general rule is, that an heir shall
not take by devise, when he may take the same estate in
the land by descent. i Roll. .Abr 626.1. 30. Hob. 30.
1 Salk. 242. : B1. Rep. 22.
But it is not denied that all the estates which each of
the grandsons derived under the will, were estates by
purchase. Admitting the executory devises over to be
good, there could be no doubt as to any part of the
estates ; for the estates are of a quality different from
what' Ahe parties would have taken in the course of descent.
It has been argued by the Plaintiff's counsel, upon
the foregoing facts, that as to the whole estate immediatelv devised to John MConnell, the lessors of the
Plaintiff are entitled to recover, in the events which
have happened, as his heirs ex partematerna, and that
as to the estate devised to him upn the contingency of
the death of John. B. Hammond under age and without
issue, the lessors of the Plaintiff are entitled to recover
as the heirs atlaw of John MConnell, at the rime when
the contingency happened, although not heirs at the
time of his death.

FEBRUARI TERMI 1813.
The decision of these points depends upon the true i3ARNITZ'

constructun of the statute of descents of Maryland, mESSEE
and the apl.lication thereto of the principles of the comT.
mon law.
CASEY.
This statute of descents, (1786, ch. I5,) after reciting
that tue L.w of descents which originated with the feudal sy.lein and'military tenures, is contrary to justice,
and ought to'be abolished, enacts, "ThaLt if any person seized of an estat-c-," &c. ,shall die intestate thereof,
suctu lands," &c. ,shall descend to the kindred, male and
femiale, of such person, in the following order, to-wit
Firsi, to the child or children, and their descendants,
if any, equally, and if'no child or descendant, adld the
estate descended to the nitestate on the part of the father,
then to the. father and if no father living, then to the
Urothors and sisters of the intestate of the blood of the
father, and their descendants equally, and if no brother
or sister as aforegaid, or descendant from such brother
or sister, then to the grandfather on the part of the-father, and if no such grandfather living, then to the
descendants of such grandfather and their descendants,
7'1 equal degree equally, and if no descendant of such
grandfather, then to the father of such grandfather,
and if none such living, then to-the descendants of the
father of such grandfather in equal degree, ind .so on,
passing to the next lineal male paternal ancestor, and if
none such, to his descendants in equal degrre, without
end And if no paternal ancestor, or descendant from
such ancestor, then to the mother of tihe intestAte, and if
no mother living, to her descendants in equal degree
equally, and if no mother living, or descendants from
such mother, then to the maternal ancestors and fheir
descendants in the same manner as is above directed'as
to the paternal ancestors and their descendants. .8n4
ifthe estate descended to the intestate on the part of the mothe?, and the intestate shall die without any child or descendant as aforesaid, then the estate shall go to the
mother, and if no'mother living, then to the brothers
,and sisters of the intestate of the blood of the mother,
and their descendants in equal degree equally, and if no
such brother- or sister, or descendant of such brother
or sister, then, to the grandfather on the-part of the mothei., antl if no such grandfather living, then to bIs de
scendants in equal degree equally, and if no such de.
V0 . VII;60

SUPREME COURT UI. S.
Bi UNITZ'S scendant of sich grandfather, then to the father of
i.EssEEo such grandfather, and if none such living, then to bif
descendants in equal degree, and so on, passing to the
IV.
CASEY. next mail maternal ancestor, and if none such living, to
his descendants in equal degree, and if no such maternal
ancestor, or descendantfrom any maternal ancestor, then
to the. father of the intestate, and if no rather living, to
his descendants in equal degree equally and if no father
lising, or descendant from the father, then to the patelnal ancestors and their dcscendaits, in the same manner
as is above directed as to the maternal ancestors."
"c-nd-if the estate is or shall be vested tit the vntestate his
purchase, and not dem-ed froL or through either of his
ancestors, and there be no child or descendant of such
intestate, then the estate shall descend to the brothers
and sisters, of such intestate of the whole blood, and
their descendants in equal degree equally, and if no
brother or sister of the whole blood, or descendanit from
such brother or sister, then to the brothers and sisters of
the half blood and their descendants, in equal degree
equally, and if no brother or Aister of the whole or half
blood, or any descendant from such brother or sister, thei.
to the father, and ifino fatherliving, then to the mother, and
if no mother living, then to the grandfather on thepart of
the father, and if no sucli grandfather living, then to the
dlescendants of such grandfather, in equal degree equally, and if no such grandfather, or any descendant from
hin, then to the grandfather on the part of the mother,
and if no such grandfather, then to his descendants in
equal degree equally, and so on without end, alternating
the next male paternal ancestor and lns descendants,
and the next male maternal ancestor and Ins descendants, and giving preference to the paternal ancestor
and his descendants, and if there be no descendants or
kindred of the intestate as aforesaid to take the estate,
then the same shall go to the husband or wife, as the
case may be, and if the husband or wife be dead, their
to his or her kindred in the like course as if such husbapd
or wife had survived the'intestate, and then had died entitled to the estate by purchase, and if the intestate has
had more husbands or wives than one, and all shall die
before such intestate, then the estate shall be equally di
iided among the kindred of the several husbandt or
wives in equal degree equally"

FEBIUARY TERM 1813.
Three classes of cases are here in terms provided

BARNITzs

for.

1. "Estates descended to the intestate on the part of CAsFY.
cc the father."
2. " Estates descended to the intestate on the part of
ccthe mother."
3. "Estates vested in the intestate by purchase and
,,not derived from or through either of his ancestors."
The descent of an estate of purchasp, from brother to
brother, and from a son to a parent, wherr the brother
or the parent is the propositus, is not directly within
the language of the statute. For, by the common lv.
a descent from brother to brdther is held to be an immediate descent, and not fiom or through the parents,
and the express provision of the statute of Maryland
as to estates of purchase, necessarily involves the'same
conclusion, and the same may be declared of a descent
from a child to a parent under the same statute.
It has been argued that the legislature intended to
form a complete scheme of desce:-ts, and that the Court
ought not to construe any case to be a casus ornisst, it
by any reasonable construction the words can be extended to embrace it. Bothparties accede to this
argument, but they apply it in a very different manner.
The Plaintiffs contend that the descent from brother to
brother was meant to be included in the first and second
classes of descents, as the parents were the common
link of connexion. from and through whom the consanguinity was to be sought; that therefore the descent, n,.
such case, is ex-partdpate7ra,or inalerna. as'the father
or mother happens to be the commune izncidum. And
the Plaintiffs rely on the words ,and not derived from
oi, throughi'ether of his ancesto"s," in the clause emibracing- the third class, as distinctly showing that the
legislature deemed every case of descents to be completely within the preceding classes. On the other hand,
the Defendants contend that wbatever*migl/t be the
legislative supposition, it is mnpossible to support tho.
Vosition, that a descent from brother to brother, or from
child to parent, s,a descent ex-parle paternaor inater;tt.

SUPREME COURT U S,

is therefore, either a casus onnssus, or the words
,,and not derived from or through either of his ancestors" are to be considered not as qualil)mg and Initing the preceding words, but as either constituting a
fourth class of' cases, embracing all such as are not included in the three preceding classes, or as explaining
estates by purchase to include all cases which are not
patei nal or maternal descents.

DARNITZ'S It

EssEm

-v.
cAsEy.

There are certinlv intrinsic difficulties in admitting
either of these constructions. I the legislature lave
proceeded on a mistake, it would be dangerous to declare that a Court of law were bound to enlarge the
natural import of words in ord- to supply deficiencies
occasioned by that mistake It would br still more dangerous to admit fliat because the legislature have expressed an intention t foirm a scheme of descents, the
Court were bound to bring every case vithin the specified classes. In the present case, equal violence would
be done to the ordinary use of the terms employed by
adopting the construction contended for by either party
It is not a descent fioan or through the paternal or
maternal line, in the sense of the common law. Nor is
it a purchase.
The words "and not derivedfroin or throm lheither of
hts ancestors" are manifestly used as explanatory of the
legalimport of purchase. They are the exact words
which the common law selects to distingish the estate
of a purchaser from the estate of an heir.
It is obvious that the legislature use the. words descent
and pirchase in V eir technmcal and legal seitse. They
have also expresqly provided fr the case of a desc,.nt
from brother to brother passing by the parents, and
of a parent from a,.child, when there are no brothers or
sisterg. These descents must thprefore be direct and
immediate: and the. former case is so- deemed also at
the common law. It is therefore in nur judgment perfertlv clar, that a descent from brother to brother is
not within. the statute, and'of course is a casus omissus,
to be regulated by the common law.
To apoly this to the present case. By the arrival of
John MConnell at the age of ui years, all the estates

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.

devised to mm imrnediately became absolute estates in BARNITZ'I
fie simple. On 1is death they passed* to his half bro- ussnL
v.
ther, John B. Hammond, and upon his death they passed to the heirs at law of the latter. The lessors of the CASEY.
Plaintiff have therefore made no sufficient title thereto.
Let us now consider the second question. whether
the lessors of the Plaintiff have any title to the estates
wnch were devised over to John M'Connell upon the
contingency of John B. Hammond's dyig under age
and without issue.
It has been argued by the Defendant's counsel that
this executory devise is void because the contingency is
tuo remote.
It is the acknowledged rule, that an executory devise
as not too remote if the contingency may happen within
a life or lives in being, or 21 years and a few months
after.
In the present case the contingency must have happened within '21 years at all events. For if John B.
Bammond attained bis full age the estate vested absolutely. To have defeated the estate over, it was sufficient either that he attained his fltll age, or died under
age leaving issue. The authorities arc conclusive on
this point. I 1is. 140, 270. 2 Burr 873. 1 Sauzd.
174. 5 Bos. and Put. 38. 12 East. 288, 2 Str 1175.
There is no validity therefore in this objection.
In the next place it will be necessary to consider
what is the nature of an executory devise as to its
transmissibility -to heirs, where the devisee dies before
the happening of the contingency
And it seems very clear that at commoit law, contingent rcmainders and executory devises are transmissible to the heirs of the party to whom they are linited,
if he, chance to (lie befre the contingency happens.
1otlexfen 54. :1 Rep. 91. Cas. Temp. Talb. 117 In
such case, however, it does not vest abs.lutely in the
first heir so as upon his death t 9 carry it to his heir at
law, who isnot heir at law of the first devisee, but it
devolves from heir fo heir, and vests ahsolately in him
only who can make himself heir to the first devisee at

SUPREME COURT U. S,
BtAI ITZ'S

LESSEE

the time w hen the contingency happens, and the CxCcutory dclIsO fals rito possession.

..
CASEY.

Tins rule is adopted in analogy to that rule of dcsceint which reqires that a person who claims a fee
simple by descent from one who was first purchaser ot
the reversion or remainder expectant on a freehold
estate, must jmake himself heir of such purchaser at the
time when that reversion or remainder falls iito possession. Ca. Lit. 1I. (b.) f,, (a.) 3 Rep. k2. Nor
does it vary the legal result that the person to whom
the preceding estate is devised. happens to be the heir
of the executory devisee, for though on the death of the
latter the exectitory devise devolves upon him, yet it is
not merged in the preceding estate, but expects the
regular happening of the contingency and then vests
absolutely in the then heir of. the executory devisee.
The case of Goo(Iright v. Searle, 2 Wils. 29, is decisive
on this point and indeed runs on all fours with the
present.
But it is contended that the statute of descents of
Maryland has changed the rule of the common law in
this respect and has made the death of the intestate
tie point of time fr-om which the descent and heirship
are in every case to be traced. The thim'd section, which
is relied on for this ,purpose, enacts as follows
,,That
6,no right in thw inheritance shall accrue to or vest in
lany'person, other than to children of the intestate
4; and their descendants, unless such person is in being,
" and capable in law to take as heir at th
tiiiie of the
nmtestate's death, but any child or descendant of the
intestate, born after the death of fie intestate, shall
f,have the same right of inheritance as if 'born before
- the death of the intestate."
In our judgment, lie conclusion drawn from this
clause is not correct. The object of' the section is to
limit the natural captwity to take, as heirs, to persons
ini bcing at the time of the death of the intestate, where
the estate is then capable of vesting in possession, and
not to make persons heirs, who, if in being at the time,
Mould not, by the common law, answer the description
of absolute heirs, or to, give a vested absolute ihterest,
where the common law had given only a possible contingent interest. The legislature had in view cases of

FEBRUARY TEIRM IiS.

,71

postlunious children. and cases where a descent to an EARNITZ,

heir had been defeated by the subsequent birth of a
nearer hen'. The argument of the Defendants; on this
point, ought not, therefore to prevail. No question
has been made as to the land specifiedly devised to John
. Hainniond in fee with a limitation over to his fatlier
in fee. As that. limitation over was a good executory
devise, and, in the events which happened, took effect,
it is very clear that the lessors of the Plaintiff cannot
chuim title thereto. This is indeed conceded on all sides.

LEssEE

T;
CASESY.

Tie result of thus opinion according..y is, that the
lessors of the Plaintiff are entitled, as heirs of John
M,Connel!, at the happening of the contingency, on the
death of' John B. Hammond, under age, and without
issue, to one moiety of the Church-hill lands, and th
residuary estates as tenants in common with the heirs
of John B. Hammond, but they are not entitled to any
portion of the lands of which John MiConnell had an
absolute vested fee at the time of his decease.
As, however, a tenant in common cannot in general
maintain an action of ejectment a.aumst his co-tenant;
there are no facts found in this. case to prove an
and
actual ouster and to take it out of the general ruile, the
consequence is that the-.judgment, in the opinion of a
majority of the Court. must be affirmed with costs.

BLACKWEILL -r. PATTON c ' ERWIN's r-F.

;ME.

Isis.

March

.lbsent

WAStiYNGTO,

6th

J. and ToDD, T.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Ten- By the laws of
N. Carolina
nessee, i an action of ejectiltit brouight by tile lessee and
Tennessee
of Patton and Erwin, against Blackwell, for 5,000 acres adeedforland
Tenneswee,
of land, in Bedford county, in the state of Tennessee. in
in
executed
At the trial tile Defendant took three bills of exceptions.

N. Carolina,
by grantors
iesiding ther
in the year

The first stated, that the Plantiff produced II cM- 1794, proved (
deuce, at the trial, a deed of bargain and sale _1797 byon
from 1. G. and Thimuss Blmnt. to wihom it was al- of the snb-

