'462
WEBSTER

& FORD
T.
iloiN.

on
on his accauat-It might have producea more thanhave

the first sale, in which case the surplus would obbelonged to him; or the same price might have been it
tained, and then he would have 'lost nothing-or
might have sold for less, and then by paying the difference which would have formed his whole loss, lie
would not have been exposed, as lie must be, if this action proceeds to have damages assessed against him,
by some uncertain and arbitrary or unsatisfactory rule,
0f these advanwlich mght be adopted by a jury
vantages which were r3served to him by the terms of
the auction, the Plaintiff had no right to deprive him.
The Court is ftirther of opinion, that nothing which was
done after the sale, at all varied the right of the parties.
Thejudgment below is affirmed with cost .

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY

18i.
MArch

SUPREME COURT. C S.

3d

IV.

WOOD.
to the Circuit Court for the district of
o
ERROR
M..... Maryland, in an action, of covenant" on a -policy upon
the secretary the schooner William and Mary "at and from Baltito Laguira, with liberty of one other neighborf the ,lgimoreport,
ostatef
1804,
extendand at and from them or either ofthem back
ed to the is-6"to Baltlore"-" Warranted by the assured to be an
land of CurraA
oa, the o-der American bottom, proof of which to be required
of tht lords ;the Uniled States only"
The letter -eof

commisltjiiers

of the admiral-

former judgment of the Circuit Court, in this

The
case, having been reversed (see ante, -vol. 6, p. 29,) and
,180-1,
Jalu
r'especting the•-.
blockadeb of tle cause remanded for a new trial, the verdict and judgMartinique & meat were again in favor of the original Plaintiff. The
Defendants, took only one bill of exceptions which staGatdalope'
ty of the Sth of

ted the execution of the policy, the sailing of the vessel
with proper documents as ii American bottom from
Baltimore on the 8th of March, i805, upon the voyage
insured, her arrival, off Laguira .on the 21th of the
same month, where she remained three days laying off
and on, vainly endeavoring to obtain pernission to en-

tel' the port, aid on the 3Ust sailed towards the port of

FEBRUARY TERM I8S.
Amsterdam, in the Island of Curracoa. by the direct mAiRi'n.
and accustomed route, with a view and intention of ins.- co.
'r.
ascertaining by cnqlurv of British ships of war, or
other vessels, whether tie port of Amsterdam was then WOOD.
in a state of blockade, and to enter it if it should not
be blockaded, hut if it should be blockaded, not to attempt to enter it, but to proceed to St.-Thomas's or Por
to Rico. That Amsterdam was a neighboring port to
Laguira, being distant about 147 miles. That Wxhen
she approached Amsterdam, being distant about 30
tiles, the master discovered a Briish vessel at the distance of 2 miles, whereupon he altered the course of
the schooner, and stood diroctly towards the British
vessel for the purpose of imuiring whether Amsterdam
was still in a state of blockade, that while so standing
for the British vessel, which was a frigate then actually
supporting the blockade of the port of Amsterdam, the
schooner was captured by the frigate and sent iito Samaica, and there condemned for breach of the blockade
of the port of Amsterdam, w-herebv she was wholly lost
to the Plauttiff. That on the 16th of May, 1805, the
Plaintiff having received intelligence of the capture.
abandoned the vessel in due time to the underwriters,
who refused to accept the abandonment.
That on the 27th of October, 1803, the government
of the United States made to the British government,
through its charge d'affiurs in the United States, a
representation on the subject of a blockade,.then recently notified, of the Islauds of' Martinique and Gaudalope;
which representation is set forth at large inthie bill of
exceptions, being a letter from -Mr. Madison, then Secretary of state, to Mr. Thornton, the British charge
d'affairs, dated the .07th of October, 1803.
That on the 5th of January I80!, thm British government, in consequence of that representation, issued an
order to its commanding navil officer in the Vest Indies and to its Courts of vice admiralty there, relative
to the blockade of Martinique and Gaudalope, wnch
order is as follows
",.ddmzralta oqfce, 5tb January,

i804.

SIR,

Having communicated to the lords of the admiralty,
lord Itawkesbury'q. letter of the 23d ult. enclosing the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
oopy of -adespatch, which ls lordship had received from
ns. co. Mr. Thornton, ins ma~jesty's charge d'affairs in Amen.
-o.
ca, on the subject of the blockade of the Islands of Martinique and Gaudalope, together with the report of the
WOOD.
.advocate general thereupon, I have their lordships'
commands to acquaint you for his lordships' information
that they have sent orders to commodore Hgod not tQ
consider any blockade of those Islands as existing unless in respect of particular ports which may be actually
invested, and then not to capture vessels bound to such
ports unless they shall have been pieeviousty warned
not to enter then, and that they have also sent the necessary directions on ifie subJct to the judges of the
vice admiralty Courts in the West Indies and America.
I am, &c.
EVAN NEPEAN.
George Hammond, Esq."

zxAay'D.

That on the 12th of April, 180, the British government, by its minister plenipotentiary in the United States,
commtnicated the aforesaid order to the government of
the United States who caused it to be immediately published in the public newspapers.
That on the same 12th of Aprii, 1801, the said British
minister plenipotentiary officially mace known to the government of the United States, that the siege of the ishnd
of Curracoa had been convertedinto a blockade, which
communication was as follows
0 01-. Merry to A .Jradison.
Washzngton, April 12th, 1804.
SIR,
I have the honor to acquaint you that I have just
received a letter from rear admiral, sir John Duckworth, comn;ander in chief or his majesty's squadron
at Jamaica, dated the second of last monti., in which he
desires me to communicate to the government of the
United States. that lie has found it expedient for Ins
majesty's service to convert the siege, which lie lately
attempted of Cilrracoa into a blockade of that Island.

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
I cannot doubt, sir, that this blockade will be conduetd .ouforinably to the instructions which, (as I have
th. b ,nor to acq-.aint you in another letter of this date,)
have bt en recently sent on this subject, to the commander in chief of his majesty's forces, and to the judges of
the vice admiralty Courts in the West In(dies, shotild
the smallness of the Island of Curracoa still render necessary any distinction of the investment being confined
to particular ports.

M.AlY'VD
INS. Co.

I have the honor to be, &c.
ANT. MERRY."
That Travers, the master of the schooner William
and Malry,heard a report at Baltimore, before he sailed, that Amsterdam was in a state of blockade, and that
he was informed, before lie sailed from Baltimore, -by
the rupster of an American vessel, that about four months
before the time of giving that information, he arrived
with hits vessel near the port of Amsterdam, and there
met with a squadron of British ships of war then block- ading that port,. and was warned off by the commander
of the squadron, with his register endorsed in the usual
manner.
That Travers in the course of his voyage fell in with
a strong French squadron in lat. i5. loiig. 63. which
Was sailing westward. That the port of AmsterdaM is
in lat. 11 deg. 55 nun.-long. 68.
That while laying off Lagmra to endeavor to obtain
perm.5sion to enter the port, or to anchor his vessel, he
was informed by a merchant at Laguira, to whom lie
had been introduced by a letter, and through whom lie
made application for permission as aforesaid, that the
port of Amsterdam was then free from blockade, and was
advised by the said merchant to proceed thither with his
vessel-that the port of Laguira and all the ports on the
Spanish main were then shut against foreigners, whereby he was prevented from going on shore and from thaking enquiries otherwise than by writing from his vessel
to some person on shore.
Thatthe Island ofBuenos Ayres was then a dependency
ofCurragoa, distant from it about twentymilegleast, and

v.
wooD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
wMtRY". is a small island having no port, except a road-stead
xws. co. about the middle of its length on the east side, where
there was a small battery and military post. That
v.
the cruizing ground of vessels blockading Curraeoa,
WOOD.
Was batween diat Island and Ruenos Ayres, which latter
whs Included in the blockade, as were also all the other
ports of the Island of Curracoa. That Travers did not attempt to enter the port 'ofAmsterdam, nor sail towards it
with an intention of enteringit if blockaded, butmerely for
the purpose of ascertaining, by an lawful and proper
means in hs power, whether it was still n a state of
blockade, of entering it if it was not, and of proceeding elsewhere if it was.
That when he sailed from Lagmira as aforesaid lie had,
from the facts and circumstances above mentioned, reasonable ground of belief that the blockade had ceased,
and had no means of obtaining any further information
on the subjcct at any neighboring port or place.
Whereupon the Plaintiff prayed the Court to instruct
the jury that if they believed the. matters so given ii
evidence by ]in, then his right of recovery in this acafr cted by the conduct of Travers in prois not
tion
as aforesaid from Laguira towards Amsteruam
ceeding
for the purposes aforesaid, which instruction the Court
gave, and also the further direction, that if they should
belie'e that Travers intended, while at Laguira, to violate the blockade o f Amsterdam, and attempted it by
sailing to%x ards that port, and within the limits of the
cruizing ground, in such case his conduct was unlawful, and the Defendants were thereby discharged frorn
any responsibility upon the policy
To this instruction the Defendants excepted and
brought their writ of error
MArTIx,

for Plaintff in error

When this case was here before it was erroneously
supposed that the order of the 5th of January 1804,
applied to the Island of Curracoa, as well as to those of
Caudalope and Martinique. It was not until the 12tlt
of April following, that the blockade of Curra oa was
notified to our government by Mr. Merry, who gives

FEBRUARY TRM i&3.

W

tis opinion that the former order would be extended to
this blockade. But it is merely his opinion, he bad no
authority to bind hisgovermnent upon that subject;
and his opinion could not justify the master of this yessel in going to the blockading squadron for information.
If he acted upon .the information of the minister he
The
acted at his peril. 5, Rob. 74, 21--1, Rob. 14,.
Neptunus-2, Rob. 92. He ought to have called at Bitenos .9yres for information.-Park, 408, 9, .4arshall,321.
LivINGSTOW, J. Thought this case could not be distinguished from the one which was here before. It
appears to he only an application to tins Court to re,
verse its own decision..
STORY, . Thoug&t the letter of Mr. Merry was.
conclusive upon the.subject.
. It does not appear to be so clear a rase
,JoANsoN,
as the other.
Oh. 3. had formed no opinion upon 'tas
It seemed to him to be differentfrom the other.

MARsHALL,

-case.

HARPER, for the Dejcndant in trror, requested that
the opinion of the Court might be given in writing.
. I understand the opinion of the
Court to be, that the letter of Mr., Merry puts the case
on the same ground as if-the blockade had been of Martinique or Gaudalope.
MXRs1HAL, Ch.

That is, that it extended to this case the'
HPrEn.
of the 5th of January, isoi.
order
benefit of the
_.NARSEL.L, Ch.

.

I so understand it.

Afterwards delivered the opinion
J
as follows
writing,
in
o'fthe Court
LIVING s o,

It is the opinmon of the Court, that the communication
Pf the British minister to the. American -ovvrnent on
the 12th of April, 1 804, relative to the block'de of Ctcraoa, furnisheda sufficient uxcusefor the assured's pro-

mAnY'M
INS. Cos

V1.
WOOD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'MAUaY'D. ceeding towards that Island for the purpose of enquiring
ts. co. as to its continuance, and that his doing so was no viov.
lation of his neutrality.
WOOD.

The Court does not mean to be. understood as -iv-

ing any opinion on the effect of such conduct if no such
communication had been made.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with
costs.

Iis.

FERGUSON v. HARWOOD.
24 th

Feb.

A bsent....TODD, T.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Columbia, sitting at WasIngton, in an action of asat the foot ofsumpsit, brought by-Harwood against Ferguson, to rea paper PuP- cover the vahle of three hogsheads of tobacco, upon the
porting to be a
record, "that following agreement, (after describing the hogsheads
:'the aforego. by their numbers, marks and weights) viz.
Isa clerk of

"ing

"taken

is

truly
from

the recor of

"proceedings"

cU pper ,Marlborougt,June 16th, 1808.

of his Court,
& if the judge,
Rteceived of Walter W Harwood, as onb of the ad.
chief justico, ministrators of William Eversfield Berry, deceased, in
oarrtsitng part of my claim against said e~tate, the three, ho sheads
certify that
such attestation of the

of crop tobacco as above stated, to be allowed p. ct.
the hlIst six month's credit price at this place d.irsng

clerk is in due that time after the r-scinding of the embargo. I have.
form of law, it put Into the hawls of the aforesal Walte, W flarwood
is to be
re
sumedthat te a bond of conveyance given by Ehslia Berv to his son,
paper so certi-William E. 'Berry, dated March 11th, 1798, for the
fled ss a fail
ofrecovea
copy of al the purpose of recovering the property therein mentioned
proweedings in now depending in a suit in Prince George's county
the caseland is Court. If the prpertv is not recovered in the aforeadmssible so
evidence,
said bond of conveyance, I heeby bind myself, my
But if the wri- heirs, executors and administratrs to return the above
ting produced, three hogsheads of tobacco, with legal interest, or the
do notpupor,
oseaso
to be a record, value thereof in money, to the aforesaid Walter W Harbut; a mere
r to his heirs or assigns.
transcript of

minutes ex-

(Signed)

ENOS D. FERGUSON."

