SUPREME COURT U. S.
VJAASTON

TF1BL]3

'

.That the demurrer ought to be overruled.

MARISHALL, Ch. J

If your title is good at law, you have no case in equity. If you have any title it is at law. If you have no
titl6 at law, you can have none in equity. The equitable estate is merged in the grant.
This is aiv attempt to substitue a bill in equity for an
action of trespass.
Dearee affirmed.

BRIG PENOBSCOT
MS.V
vel

w

HE UNITED STATES.

Jbsent....
TODD, J.
Under the

v~on-inter-

TUIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Cir.
cuit" Court of the district of Georgia, which affirmed

'e," that of the District Court, condemning the brig Penobscot, and ber cargo of salt, for a violation of the acts
had
norght of Congress, interdicting commercial intercourse with
to come into
.0"

Xarch,. 18114

waters or Great Britain and her dependencies, (rnz. the acts of
Jlarch ist, i809., vol. 9, p.
fay Ist,
14,18ovol.1,
inquire whetp. 186.-The President'sproclamation of .Nov. 2d, 18i0,
lier she
jandher car. and the act of 2d Mfarch, 1811, p. 346.) By the 4th section of te,act of .MarchIst, 1809, it was not lawful to Import into the United States, or the territories thereof,
any goo~s, wares, or merchandize whatever, from any
port or place situated in Great Britain, or Ireland, or in
any of the colonies or dependencies of Great Britain, nor
fi'rm any port or place in the actual possession of Great
3ritain, nor to import into the United States, &c. from
any foreign port or place whatever, any goods, wares,
or merchandize of the growth, produce. or manifacture
of Great Britain, or Treland, yc.
he

tie'U. s. to

By the 5th section, such goods so imported, (or put on
board any vessel, &c.with intent of ximporting, &c.) as

FEBRUARY TERM is1m.
-well as all other articles on board, belonging to
same owner, are liable to forfeiture And by the
section, the vessel is jubject to forfeiture, if the goods
laden on board With the knowledge of the owner

master of the vessel..

the
6th
are
or

The act of Mi.y ist,18I0, and the President's prclamation of Nov. 2d, 1810, announcing that France lad so
revoked the edicts of Berl& and Ui1ilqn, as that they
ceased to violate the neutkal commerce of the -United
States -And the act of March 2d, 1811, are only referred to, as ravsipig and enforcing against Great Britain, the provisions of the act of March Ist, 1809.
Tle claim of the owners of the vessel and.cargo,
stated, that-the vessel sailed from Antigua on the 12th.o"
February, 1811, and being crank and nwt sea 76brthy, put into Turk's Island, for ballast, where she took
In a load of salts.being informed, by an American vss6l,
that there was no law to prolibit it. That she. sailed
fromTurk's Islanid, for theport of Sarannah,intendlngto
stand off and on, to get informatioif to.know whether she
might be permitted to come in or not. That.on her approach to the harbor, a gale of wind prevented bQafs
coming to her, and forced her, for the safety of the lives
of the crew and the vessel, to make a harbor at Cockspur Island. That before .le got a harbor, she was
boarded by a revenue cutter, who took possession of
her, and forcibly. carried her into poKt. That thesalt was
not taken in with intent to violate the laws of the.
United States, but with the express intention and deterrination, if they found the importation into the United
States to he unlawful, to bear away to some. foreign pot.
She sailed from Castine, in the province of Maine, for
Antigua, in December, 1810. and arrived off Savannah, on the 15th of .4rarch, 1811.
There was evidence that the vessel might have called
at .8melia Island, in the course of her voyage, where
she might have got information of the non-intercours
law being in force. That she spoke a vessel of the U.
S. just before she came in, but made no inquiry astorthe
law. That the agent of the owners wrote several letters to be delivered to the captain at sea, infoirmig him
of the law, and warning him to go to soi'he foreign
port, but they were not delivered. The evidence r'-

BiIti
n.
SOT

rENL

V.
U.STAITES.

SUPREME COURT U. Sr
BRIG

PENoE-

specting the necessity of commg in, by reason of stress
of weather, did not seem to be sufficiently proved.

SV.OT

The cause was argued by P B. Ktky, for the Appelu.STATES. lants.. and 1. R. INGrRsOL, for the U. S. 4"
It was contended by KEY, for the appellants,
1. That the cargo was not taken on board with intention of importing the same into the United States.
'2. That the vessel was forced into Gockspur Harbor,
by stress of weather, to save the vessel and the lives of
the crew, and while so making the harbor, she was
boarded by a revenue cutter, and seized, and forced into
the port of- Savannah.
3. That she had a right to come into the waters of
the U. S. to make inquiry whether she could be permitted to enter, and before a reasonable time had expired,
she was forcibly seized and carried in.

4. That coming into the waters of the U. States, under either of the above circumstances, does not constitute an unportation,without other and further voluntary
acts on the part of the vessel.
Feb. 23....MA RSHALL, Ch. J. stated the opinion of
the Court to be, that the vessel came at her peril, that
she was bound to get infoimatibn, but was n'egligent
in not calling at A.melia Island, and in not inquiring of
the vessel winch she spoke off the port of Savannah.
1813.
Feb.

2Oth.

&ntence affirmed.
CAZE AND RICHAUD
T.

THE BALTIMORE INSURANCE COMPANY.

T.[heunder-

ritersupond

a cargo are

.hsent....TODD,

.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Maryland in an action of inebitatus assumpsitfor freight
0 The Reporter was absent.

