FEBRUARY TERM i81.
since'been settled. The debtor has the option, if he u. STATES
v.
thinks fit to exercise it, and may direct the application
of any particular payment at the time of making it. If.A.uARy
he neglects to make the application, the creditor may & -ATmake it, if he also neglects to apply the payment, the TELSON.
law will make the application.
In this case a majority Of the Court is of opinion
that the rule adopted in ordinary cases is not applicable to a case circumstanced as this is, where the receiver is a public officer not interested in the event of the
suit, and who receives on account of the United States,
where the payments are indiscrimmatoly made, and
where different sureties, under distinct obligations, are
interested. It will be generally admitted that moni-s
arising due, and collected subsequently to tile executibn
of the second bond, cannot be applied to the discharge
of the first bond, without manifest injury to the surety
in the second bond and vzce -versa, justice between the
different sureties can only be done by reference to the
collector's books, and the evidence which they contain
may be supported by parol testimony, if any in the
possession of the parties interested.
The Court is of opinion that the Circuit Court erred
in the opinion given, and that it be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.
March

161M.

Absent....Tonn, J.

THIS was also a writ of' error to the Circuit Court, A debtor of
who
States,
the United
for the district of Kentucky.
puts evidence
debts due
The case was submitted without argument, and Du-'of
to hiuseif, invALt, J4 delivered the opinion of the Court, as follows to the hands

SUPREME COURT U. S.
n.

STATES

v.

This case has been considered in connexion With
that against January & Patterson.

PATTER-

A suit was instituted on the bond dated 23d Marcl
1799, against Arthur & Patterson, and pending the
of a public of. suit Arthur died. 'The Defendant pleaded performance,
ficer of the.t
11C1
United State, to whih the Plaintiffs replied, alleging as a breach of
to collect and the condition, that the stipulations therein contained had
apply
the re- not been performed, and that the Defendant" was in arner, when ree
cesived, to the rear to' the Plamntiffs, the sun of S 16,it 15 1-2. &c.
credit of such on which issue was joined.
SON.

dehtor in account with the
United States,

The evidence, exhibited in til suit against January
& Patterson, was produced in this case. On. the trial
the Defendant took several exceptions, but not having
appealed they are not open to xamination.
the hands of a
is not entitlce
to
credi
totsuch
uhedit
until the subney
gets into
public officer

The Plaintiffs also took an exception to the allowto receive it. ance of a credit to the Defendant. Tito supervisor had
Its beingithe received the evidence of a number of outstanding debts
hands
of an due to Arthur, which lie undertook to collect, and proagent of a person who at
msed to apply the proceeds to Arthur's credit. Among
the time when then was the bond, of Beelor & Moore, which was
the claims
were putinto sued, at the trial of tis suit, it appr.tred that the
his hands tbr amount of that bond had actually come into the hands of
collection whs
a public offi- the agent of the person who had been supervisor; but that
cer of the
office being extinct, it was contended on the part of thb
TVnited States,
entitled to re- United States, that the payment coul not be considred as
deivedebts
a payment to .overnment. The Court was of a diffl'rent
due tothe U- opinion, and instructed the lurv acordingl) , to which
aited States,
co
but whose of- opinion of the -Court, an exception was taken, and a
fice became writof error prosecuted.
of the United

States entitled

extinct before
the money
"was
This
Court is of
b
y isreceived
agent,
r
is not sufficientred in the. decision

opinion, that the Circuit Court erthus made
The recPption of the
to entitle such outstanding debts by: the supervisor, for the purpose of
debtor to a
having suits commenced for the recovery of th,'m, was
credit in account with the an accommodati6n to the Defendant. who could not be
United States justly' entitled to credit until the money was in the hands
tharefor.
of some public officer authorized to receive it.
•Tudgment reversed.

