SUPREME COURT U. S.
RAW-

,wuorNo

HAzI,
Moved for a certiorarn upon a suggestion of
, d-minution of the record, in not sending up the deftosi-

tions of the witnesseses.

LAMN.'T.
O1 BRIG

ciARIssA.
MAPR-suA,
CA.
CLAIing the witnesses
BORN E nOo.

.- What prevents you from produchere$ or taking their depositions de

Vo.

HARE, Suggested a doubt, whether cases for viola.
tion of the Embargo, are cases of admiralty, or of prize

U.STATES.

denee to bein jurisdiction.
here,

used

a case of Ad.iraly Juris.

tion.

However, on a subsequent day he moved -foe, and obtamned a commsion to take the depositions of witnesses
at New Orleans, to beused on the trial in this Court, at
.the next term.
A like commission was granted in the case of Wfiliams
and irmroyd, at this term.

THE UTITED STATES
V.

"9812°

JOHN G0.0DWIN.

T IS was an action of debt brought originally in the
District Court, for the Ditrit of ]?ennsylvania, by the
U3nited States, against John Goodwm, for 15.000 dolCourt of thG
Wited Statl lrs, as a penalty for not eiltering goods agreeably to the
to reverse tie prime cost, at the place of exportation, with intent to deiut'o7 fraud tlhreveue. The judgment of the District Court,
m a civi ac- which was in f4vor of the United States, was, upon a
tion, whict fla writ of Error, reversed in the Circuit Court , and'therebeen carried
u' to the Cir- upon the United States sued oilt the present writ of Ercult eourt
rQr to this Court.
o rit ofer.

rorlies to the

Supreme,

from the Dis.
*iet Court, by

writ of error.

A doubt having been suggested, whether tins Court
could take jurisdiction by writ of Error, in a civil action, which had been carried up by writ of Error,from
the District Court td" the Circuit Court, that question
was submitted to this G qurt without argument.

FEBRUARY TERM is81.
At a sib~equent day, viz
being present.

March 10, all the Judges u. STATES
T.

GOODWIN.
WASHINGTON,

3. delivered the opinion of the Coifrt--

as follows
This case stands upon a writ of .error to the Circuit
Court, for the District of Pennsylvania. Bythe record,
it appears, that an action of debt was brought, in the
name of the United States, against the Defendant in error,-mn the District Court of Pennsylvania, in which
judgment was rendered for the United States. On a
writ of error to the. Circuit Court for that District, that
judgment was reversed;- and upon like process,the
cause has been brought into tins Court, for re-examination. A .rule has been obtained by the Defendant in
error, upon the Uhited States, to show cause why the
writ of error should not he dismissed, and the ground of
the rule is, that, as the cause was not removed from the
District into the Circuit Court, by appeal, but by writ of
error, there is. no -provision in any of the laws of the
United States, giving jurisdiction to this Court, to reexamine thejudgment- of the Circuit Court, upon a writ
of error or otherwise. This question can only he decided by an attentive consideration of the different acts
of Congress on this subject.
The 21ist section of thejudicial law of'I789, declares,
that from final decrees in a District Court in cases of admiralty and maritime 3ursdiction, where the mattfr in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds 300 dollars, ai appeal shall be allowed to the Circuit Court. The 22d section
provides, that final decrees and jupgments ingivil actions,
in a District Court, where the matter in dispute-exceeds
thevalue-of 50 dollars, exclusive of costs., may he re-examined and reversed or affirmed in a Circuit Court, upon a writ of error This section thbn 'proceeds to dedare, that, upona Iike.process, (that is to say, upon a writ
of error,) may final judgments and decrees n civil actions
and suits i Equity, in a Circuit Court, brought there
by original process, or removed there from the State
Courts, or by appeal from a DistrctCourt, wher the valueexceeds 2,000 dollars, exclusive of costs, be re-examined *nd reversed' or affirmed in the Supreme Court,

flo

SUPREME- COURT -U . .

u. STATES The. 2d secfioA of the act of the 3d of .arch,im80,so
V.
far changes the above sectious of the act of 1799, that
GooD-iN. whereas the latter allows an appeal, from the District to
the Cirpuit Court,.only in admiralty and maritime cases,
where the vAlue in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds
300 dollars, the former provides, an appealfram allfinal
3udgments or decrees in a:'OistrictCourt, where the matter 'in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds 50 dollars,
and also an appealto the Supreme Court, from all final decrees andjudgments in a Circuit'Court, in cases of Equity, of Admiralty and Maritimejurisdiction, and of prize.
dr no plize,. where the value, exclusive of costs, exceeds
2,000 dollars. Ifuttths law makes no provision for the
'appellate jurisdiction of the Supr'eme Courtin any other
cases than those above mentioned. Consequently, we
must refer,tb the sections of the act of 1789, before noticed, (vhifch are still in force, except so far as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the act of 1803,) t,
see in what- cases, other than those provided for by
'the act of 1803, the Supreme Court can review the de,c sions of the Circuit Courts. If has been shown, that
,.1 final jujlgments or decrees in"civil actions and suits
in equity,4n. a Circuit Court, brought t'a(re by original
process, ,or rem ved from the State Courts, or by appeal
from a Distrt Court, may be re-examined in the Suprome Court; upon':awrit of error. But no case can,
under-this act, be-removed from a District Court byappeal, except itlbe of admiralty and maritime, jurisdiction, and, eonsequently, under the literal construction
of
Jawi- no other cases could be carried from the
jis
Circuit. Court to the Supreme Court. The question
then, is, whether tjie word appeal, in the 22d section, is
to be understood technically, or merely as descriptive
of the appellate jurisdiction of the Superior Court,
without regard to the particular mode by which a cause
is transmitted to. that jurisdiction? This question appears- to have been cdisidered by the Supreme -Court
so ea4y as the year 1796, ia the case of Wisearl v.
Dauchy. Chief Justice Ellsworth, in deliverjug the
opibion of the Court in that-uaSe, expresses hiiself, as
follows -- ,, The act-of 1789, speaks of appeal and writ
of-errorbutdoes not confound them. They are to be understood acqording, to their ordinary acceptation. An
appeal is a-civil law process, and removes a cause entirely, subjecting the law and fac, to a review alid re-

'FEBIIUARY TERAI isig.

.f,ill

-trial. A writ.of error is a common law prcess, aijd u. sTATEs
removes for re-examination, nothing but thd. law. This',
T.
statute -observes this distinction. fn admiralty and G0ODWrW.
maritimeocauses, an appeal-is allowed from the District ..
to-the Circuit Court, if,
the iiatter in dispute exceeds
300 dollars, and yet decrees and judgments in civil actions'may be removed by writ -of error, from the Disp
trict to the Circuit Court, though the value barely exceeds 50 dollars." In another part of this opinion, the
judge adds, ",that as to the appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court, the 22dsection says, and qort a likeprocess,.that is, upon a writ of error, shall finaljudgmenta
afid decrees in civil actions, viz cases not -criminal,
and suits in equity &c.-Among the causes which may
be brought to the Supreme Court, by writ of error, are
cases wlichhad been removed to the 'Circuit Court, ty
appeal from a District Court, which can only -be cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
The objection made to this interpretation of the word
appeal, .that judgments'in civil actions at common law.
commenced in a District Court, could b re-examined
only. in a Circuit Court, if -well founded in itself, could
not, with any propriety -be addressed to courts, after
the-legislative ineaiAing of tte term. is ascertained. The
technical distinctioir between a writ of error and an appeal, pnd between the different cases to which they were
applicable; was clearly niarked in the act-of 13th February, 180i, which was afterwards repealed by the
act*of the 8th of March, 1802. The former act, after
providing for the removal of all fnal judgments or decrees, above the value of 50 dollars, from a District to
a Circuit Court, ty appeal, and by a like -proceeding'
for a removal to, the Supreme-Court, of those cases only,- wluch were of equity, of admiralty "..
d.maritime
jurisdiction, and of prize or no prize, proceeded toprovide for civil actions at common law, originating in
a District Court, by declaring that final j udgmenfs, in
such cases, if of a certain value, might be removed, at
'nce, fromu the District to the Supreme Court, by writ
of error. So, that as-the law'stood at that time, a par
ty, in cases at common -law, had an election to carry his
case, where it exceeded 2,000 dollars, by writof error,
from the District to the Circuit Court, umder the 92d
section ofthe-act of i789, butwithout the privilege of pro-

4
u. sTAT.S

V.
GOOIDWXI'9

KTPREME COURT U. S.

ceeding farther,. or to proceed with his cause9 at once,
to"the Supreme Court, passing by the Circuit Court.But it appears not to have been-the policy of the legislature at that time, to subject the decigions, of the District
Court, in civil cases at co:-nimon law, to 'itore than one
re-examination in an appellate Court.

WHELAN
M't.

90th.

THE UNITED STATES.

THIS cause standing so late on the docket that it was
cses of stizdre-upon wa- not'likely to be called for trial at this term, DALL~s, for
from did sea, the United States, suggested the lpropriety of assigning
by vesselsof a particular day for the hearing, as it was a case of immore than
ten tons br. portance, and involved a question of jurisdiction, viz
thenforbredch whether a setzure of a vessel, on waters navigable from
the
of the laws
the U. S. are the sea for vessels of ten and more tons burthen,. for
civil cases of breach of a l4w-of the'United States, -wasto be tried by 4z
adi ralty aadury. This question was said to be important because
risdi tion, and the judge of'the district of Pennsylvania had refused to
are tobe tried try any cases of that kind, until the question was final'%vithoutajury. ly settled by this Court.
ters navigable

The Court accordingly assigned a day for bearing
that question, but intimated an opinion that it was already decided in the cases of the Vengeance 3. Dall.
297.- lte Betsy and Charlotte. '. (ranch, 113. and Yeaton v. United States, 5. Cranch, 281.
E. TLGHmAwAt, for theAppellant, after looking into
those cases, abandoned the question as to jurisdictiony
considering the cases. cited as conclusive against him.
THE COURT, (all the judges being present,) said that
the question had been certainly settled in this Court,
upon full argument.

