FEBRUA Y TER - 1812.

171

objected that it was not paid at.te -request of the. r~n.
it is,
v.
Defendant. If the Plaintiff was not blound :to pay it,

and if it was paid without te request of the Defendant,

Rwnnin.

it is certain that the Plaintiff is.not entitled to recover .
Butthe Court thinks that theatcital in the deed of as-.
signment is evidence from winchthe jury mightinfitr a
request,
The Court is also of opinion thit the recital in the,
dee.d&is sufficient to take the case out of the statute of
limitations. .Although the Court is not v illing to. extend the. effect of casual or accidental -pxpressions fartber than it has b'dn, to take a case out of that stattute,
and although the Cnurt nght be of- opinion -that, the
cases on that point have gone too farp yet this is not a
casual or incautious expression. the deed admits the
debt to be due on the Vth of July, 1801, alifive years
bad not afterwards elapsed before the suit was brought.
Then it is objected that -there is no evidence of the
payment of the. money'by'the PIaintiff, but the Court
thinks- that the recital of the deed is evidence from
which the jury might"infer the.payment.
There was no error respecting. the discharge, lner
the insolvent act. It was only a discharge-,of the person, and could not affect the judgment.

Judgment affir'ntd.

DAVY'S EXECUTORS -c. FAW

1842.
March

Sd.

awardill
.THIScase seems to be sufficiently stated in the An
aetabe
not
on
;,
Ch.
m equity
66d
MAmsnAi,
by
delivered
following opniion.

theoth of. March....AII the Judges being present.

on

ut of

an omission by

Circuit Court the arbitrators
This 19 an appeal kfom a decree of the
Chancery, by part of th
in
fpr the county of Alexandria, sitting
betwe.pn the atters sub
made
award
an
aside
set
Court
tha
Wbnch
tat oarion
parties., and d4ected an account.

IvaSUPXEM

T

DAV'5S

V

iCOMIP V. S

111ill impeaches th award, bawme,

1I. The arbiters exceeded their power

....

2. They made no pphrd with respect to a pairt of
the wttter submitted L6 -them.
jured the corn
e. the
3. They were partial, and proceeded- to make their
plVant.
rie of Iad, award without hearing the party against whom it was
nd not th.
4uestion of ii- made.
hali Save i-

ties
submitted, isthe
sob-

,mm and.aIhe arbitrati~n uond hinds the parties to submit to
-rd need not the award, order a arbitrameht, of Franmis Peyton,
be by deed.

Thlieophilus Hairris and Thomas Herbert, or any two of
them, respecting a econtroversy og several accounts and
contracts emsting between them.
A judgment at law has been, obtained for the amount
of the aiard, for relief against which and against the
award itself this suit was instituted,

By the Plaintiffs in error-it is contended, that excess
of power in arbiters is a defence at law, and is there,
fore i, te.xaminable in this Court.
That th&.injured party may avail himself of this defence in a Court of law,. where the excess of power is
apparent on the face of the award, is not controverted.
But,.in this case, it is not shown by the award itself,
and the Defendant insists that he was not at liberty in
a Court of law, to avail himself of evidence dehors the
award; and in support of-this opinion the case of Wills
v Maccarmiuk,2 Wilson, 149, has been much relied
upon. Without deciding that question, the Court will
proceed to inquire whether the Defendant in error hai
succeeded in proving that, in this case, the. arbiters
have, in fact, e:ceeded theirp ower.
It appears that Abrahan Faw sold to David Davy a
lot of ground, the purchase money for which was payable in four years, in four equal annual payments. Davy conveyed to Faw, abott the shme time, a lot which
hehad purchased from Elisha C. Dick, and which he
held on the condition of making certain improvements.
Davy becoming insolvent, it was agreed that his con-

FEBRUYAWTtibi

1842.

travt witlh Pt~v should be panulle, that-the bonds he

IDAvV'Z

had given Faw for the purchase of the-lot should-be, re- Exxts.
IV.
turned to him, andithat .heshould swrender the bond
It had-been tipu- P'i.
for a title which Faw Itad execut.
lted that; in the'event of his- iiing -to .pay theI urchase money, anj of the contradC' beirg avoided, the
money actually paid by Davy to Faw should be considered as'rent so far as rent was ,allowed. There hkd
been some other dealings between'the parties, and there
had beere a siail piece of ground rented to Davy,-ou
which he had put'some inconsiderable irggrovements.
In this state of things they agreed to submit thei, affairs to arbitration, and the bond was 'bxecuted which
has been stated. Th. arbiters awarded thAt Faw should
pay Davy. 314114:1, and iti s proved .tfatA i making
up the accounit between the parties, they defited-Faw
with 130& for the leit which had been conveyed to him by
Davy. Faw contends that this Was not -a.cntract - bu.
sisting between the partiesi and consequently is-not-mcluded within the terms of'the submissioun.
Faw Oleges in his bill that tins, whible' tramnaction
was closed that te lot conveyed to~hun by-Davy
formed no.part of the consideratfon given fobthe,lLt he
had sold, but was conveyed to him, because -ivy considered th'e rent reserved-on that lot and the 4ditions
of improvement) which -were inserted -in the .4eed, as
equfvalent'to its full value. -These allegations are demed'iq the answer; and-the Defendant .avers that'the
price of. the lot purchased by him.was I 500, that he
.onveyed'the.lo he had purchased from Dick at 100o,
and gave hIs bQnds for 1400, -the residue. of th'e purchase money; that, when this contract was- annulled,
he became entitled to his lot.-or to its value, and that
.this was one of the subjects submitted to the referees.
In. addition to this testimony furnished by the answer, the Defendant has produced the testimony of a
witness who was present when the arbitration was
l greed upon and the bond executed. He says that the
ot purchased by the D'efendant from the Plaintif, and
that which had been conveyed by the Defendant to the,
Plaintiff as well as other accounts between the pyties
formed the subjects of conversatiol,

SUPREAM1WURT "U. S.
DAVY'S

~i'lns,
-e.,
fAw.

Francis Peyton,'one of the arbiters, dectieothat he
considered all the tiansactions. between Faw and.Davy
as submitted to them; that Faw himself laid before
them the bond he hadgiven to Davy for a conveyance
of the lot he haAsold, and that he -always understood
from-Mr. Faw during the arbitration that he was willih to pav .1 00 forthe lot cptiveyed to him by Davy.
Peyton adds that the mode adopted by the arbiters -for
arranging that part of the subject, was understood by
them to be the one which was most agreeable to Mr.
Faw.
The Court is of opinion that the Plaintiff .n the
Court below has failed,in showing that the arbiters
have exceeded their powers.
2. A Second objection to this award is, that the arbiters have not settled the accounts between the parties
for flour stored by Faw for Davy, wiuch accounts were
clearly withinthe submission.
The Defendant has not shown that he ia injured by
this omission, and it is, therefore, unnecessary to decide
whetheP, had he been injured, a Court of equity could
or could n9t have.affordedrelief.
3. A third ground, on -whichi the application for relief is placed, is the partiality and improper condirct of
the arbiters.
That judges chosen by the parties themselves as well
as those-who ar6 constituted by law, ought to be exempt from all imputation of partiality or corruption,
that their conduct ought to be .fair, and their proceediqgs regular, so as to give the parties an opportunity
to be heard, and themselves the means of understanding
the subjects they are'to decide, are propositions, not to
be controverted. Bht corrupt motives are not lightly
to be ascribed to the arbiter, nor is partiality to be attributed to him on. account of difference of oljimon with
respect to the decision he has made.
The charge- made in this case, that the parties were
not gufficiently heard, is not supported, and is contra,dicted by ,the testimony in,the 'cause. The general

FEBRUARY'VERM i81Z

Vs-

.chargd 6f Tiartiality is also contradicted and is expressly denied by'the arbiters, who have been made .Defendants, and,by the deposition of Francis 3eyton who did
r'ot sign the award.
Oome particular facts have been proved, by whic-h
this charge, it issupposed by the counsel for -the Defendant in error, may be supported.
M,Kinsey Tallibt deposes thati after the arbiters bad
separated, Thomas Herbert, who -was one of them, 8ai(
thai David Davy ought to buy his NiA.Fs - meat forhim -Without making-any charge on accoiint of the partictilar service he had rendered him in the said arbitration.
That such language is utbecoming in a judge will
not be dtmed, and if the circumstances leading to these
expressions, and the' manner in which they were uttered, had-been statedin the- record, and there had been
reason to believe that the words were spoken seriously,
they would have furnished objections to the award ndt
easily to be removed. But "nothing is stated whicl
could give these expressions a serious aspect. They
appear not to have been delivered confidentiJh -tnd
as it is difficult to conceive that a- man, who- colff be
chosen as an arbitee, would thus wantonly aid puneessarily expose the depravity of his own condut, the
Court must consider these words as spoken an sport,
with indiscreet levity, but not-as seriously indicative- of
of an opinion that he had made an unjust award.
The same witness, m. another deposition, states that
he was presentat a meeting of the- arbiters, and heard
Thomas Herbert say that they had the hands of Abraham Faw so fast tied that'he could not, for his life, get
them loose..
It is impossible to consider these expressions in an
arbiter without some disapprobation. But wht led- to
the employment of them.- does not appear; nor is -the
Court informed of the temper in which they were employed. It is worthy of remark that Thomas-Her.ert
does'not appear to have had aw opportunity of ro~s
examuung this witness, and that thig deposition- was

iavy's
Px'Rs.
V..
rAW.

!W

SUPRE

COURT U.'S.

zuv ?a taken before the arbiters were made partfdtto the
)S'XIts.
V.

Fw.

cause.

There is, some testimony xebpecting some alterca-

tions~or jealousies between Faw and some of the arbi-

ters at a corporation election, but they were too trivial
'to be worthy- of notice, and as they occurred about the
time of the submission, and before the arbiters proceeded on the lusiness, it is supposed that they would have
induced Faw, had he thought them of any importance,
to make some effort to prevent an award.
Upon a view of the whole case, the Court is of opinion that the Plaintiff in the Court below has not show4
sufficient matter'to set aside the judgment at law, and
doth therefore direct that the decree of the Circuit
Court be reversed and annuled.
March 13th--After the decisioi of the cause, C. Lee
for the Defendant m error, cited KyJd on AIwards, to
,show that where the dispute is about land the submission iad award must be by deed.
fAiii
, Ch. J.-That is where the title is in question. Qut here the title was conveyed-the dispute'was
onlyAsto-the prce. The question of title was not submiteth

LivnsvoGoT,
.- Although that point was. not made.
in .the argument, yet it was considered by the Court.

HUGHES .'MOORE.

1812
March

4th.

_"____

Present...,All thejudges..
Ar

iaybetfre
verdict, discontinue a
nount
nuihs

decaration,

and wave the

issuesjomed

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia, sittilg in Alexandria.
This was a special action of assumpsit, brought by
Moore aainst Hughes. The deelaration, after several

'amendments, contained four counts.

