FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
as to the children.

Wood's title to them.

27s,

Swann could do nothing to injure

WOOD
DAflS.

.March 10th ... J11 the udges being present,DAIS
AIARsHALL,

Ch. J. Stated that the opinion of the

Court to be, that teiverdict and judgment in the case
of SusairDavzs against Swam, were not condlusrve evzdeuce in the present case. There was no privity between Swaun and Wood, they were to be considered
as perfectly distinct persons. Wood had a right tq defend his own title, which lie did not derive from Swann.
Judgment reversed.

MORGAN v. REINTZEL.
,,

4i812.

__March

9th

Present..... 11the Judges.
ERROR-to the ircuit Court for the district of
Columbia sitting in Washington, in an action of as-in a suit asumpsit brought by &etntzel against Olorgan upon a gainst the ma-

promissory, note made by MTorgan payable to ieintuzel, ker of a proor order.
byanidorser
'who l~as been

The declaration contained three counts 1st. Upon obliged to take
the promissory note in the usual form under the statute produece
Plaitiff must
the
of.8nne-; 2d. For money paid, laid out, and expended, note upon the
and 3d. The following special count, viz.

trial.
Thethepayment
of
money

-And whereas also afterwards, to wit, on," &c. C the by the tidorsaid
William Morgan, accordingto the custom and usage tes4,is
ser aftera good
pro.
of 7erchants made his certain note i Writing,
corn-eonsidedtion
monly called a promissory note, his own proper hand sit
the part
for onanassump.
being thereto subscribed, bearing date on the day and

year aforesaid, (August 9th, 1809) by which said note
the said 'William, Morgan, sixty days after the date

of the

makert-

to pay the amount of the

note with costs
thereof, promised to pay to the said Anthony Reintzel, ofrprotest.

or order, five hundred dollars, without offsett, value remaker of
promissory
toa The
ceivet, and then and there delivered, the said note
VOL. V .
36

note, payabl

SUPIME IOURT U. S,
the said Anthony Reintzel, and the said Alithony Reintzel, to whom, or to whose order, the payment of the
R.INTZEL said sum of money, mentioned in the said note, was to
be made, before the payment thereof or any part thereto order, is, of, and before the time appointed by the said note for
n
a
h
and
day
hti
toosaosay on the
that
thereof,
the payment
underof me,.rhheef
amn
tom
chants, lhible year last aforesaid, at the county aforesaid, indorsed
the the said note, his own proper hand.writing being thererefund
to
of the
amount
Dote and costs to subscribed, by which said indorsement the said Anof Protest to thony Reintzel ordered and appointed the contents of
a4D mdorser
who has been the said note to be paid to the president, directors and
obliged to take com oany of the bank of the United States, and then
up the note afand there dehvered the said note, so idorsed, to the
ter protest
said presid-nt, directors, and company of the bana of
the United States, of which said indorsenent, so made
on the said note, the said William MIbrgan, afterwards,
to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, had notice, by
reason whereof and also by force of the sthtute in such
case made and provided, the said William Morgan became liable for, and chargeable to pay to the said president, directors and company of the bank of the United
States, the said sum of money mentioned in the said
note, according to the tenor and effect thereof, and in
consideration thereof assumed upon himself so to do.
And the said Anthony Reintzel avers that the said gilliam Morgan, although afterwards, to wit, on the 8th
day of October, in the year eighteen hundred and ine,
at tlhe county aforesaid, he, the said William lMorgan,
was called upou by the said president, t]irectors and
company of the bank of the United States and solemnly
iequired to pay the sum of money in the said note mention-d, reftsed to pay the same; whereupon afterwards,
upon the day and year last aforesaid the said president,
directbrs and company of the bank of the United States,
hb]ing made no order concerning the payment thereof,
protiftd the said note.at the county aforesaid, according to tho said usage and custom of merchants upon
sitch non-payment, by reason whereqf the said Anthony Reiqtzel, according to the usage, and custom of
merchants became liable'to pay to .the said president,
directors and company of the bank of the United
States, the conteits of the said note together with tWe
from therdeinterest and damage which should ace"e
6
lay of payment thereof, and beingso Iia 1e, afterwards,
to wit, on the day and year. last aforesaid at the county
moRGA
v.

FEBRUARY TERM-4i2.

4

aforesaid" (did) " pay to the said president, directors moRGAN
and company, the contents 'ofthe said note and the
V.
costs of protest thereon, whereof the said WilliamMor- REINTZEL
gap afterwards, to-wit, on the day and year last atoresaid at the county aforesaid, 'had notice; by reason of
the premises, and by force of the statute and usage and
custom of merchants, the said William Mor.gan became
liable to pay to the said Antliony Reintzel the said sum
,of money in the said note mentioned and the said costs
of protest, and Itemg, so liable afterwards, to wit, on the
day and year last aforesaid. at the county foresaid,
upon himself assumed and to the said Anthony Reintzel
then and thre faithfully promised to pay thre same
when lie should be thereunto afterwards required, and
which said costs of protest and the said sum of money
in the said note'mentioned amount unto the sum of five
hundred and two dollars and twenty-eight cents current
miney, whereof the said William Morgan afterwards,
to wit, on the ay and year last aforesaid at the county
aforesaid had notice."
After a general verdict for the Plaintiff in the Court
below, upon the issue of non assunipsit to all the counts.
the Defendant moved in arrest of judgment, and asgigned as a reason therefor, that the last count in the
declaration-was bad. The Court, however, overruled
the motion and rendered judgment upon the verdict.
The Defendaut took out a writ of error; and the
cause was now submitted to this Court by F S. Kx
for Plaintiff in error, and MoRsELT. for Defendant,
,without argument.
Mfarch i3th ....
lfl
the, Jndges being present,
MARSHALL,

O. J. after stating the case, observed

that the Court could see no error in the judgment..
The payment of the money by the Plainti'm iider
the circumstances stated in the count, was a sufficient
consideration for the assumpsit.
The principal objection was that the count ought to
have'been founded pon the- .iote, so as to oblige the
Plaintiff to produce it on the trial. 1ut it states that,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the note was paid by the Plaintiff, and the Conrt
thinks that the note must have been produced uponflthe

MORGAN

V.

4FIJTZEL trial.

Jitd.ment affirmed.

WISE i-LYNN
V.

THE COLUMBIAN TURNPIKE COMPANY
rlarch

9th.

Present....8ll the Judges.
.Lrik Columbian Turnpike Company obtained a rule
upon the Plaintiffs in error, Wise and Lynn, to show
the Circuit cause why this writ of' eror should not be dismissed
Court for the for want of jurisdiction, the matter in dispute being
district of Co.
lumbia, this less than 100 dollars, and. the writ of error being to the
-ourt has no Circuit Court for the district of Columbia.
Upon
awrit
of error to

esdiction,
if

te sum a-zi-dedbe less
Mfarct 14.
than 100 dolhs, althougih
a greater sum Upon the return of the rule, itappearing that the
mayhave been sum awarded was only -5 dollars, the CouRT, all the
oIclally
Judges being present, decided that they 1?ad no Juris-

Aelamed.

T.

-dictiim, althoughtthe sum claimed by Wise .tnu, befor'the commissioners of the road, was more than 100
d61lars.
-

Writ of error dismissed.
1812.
Xaorch 12th.

CALDWELt "v.JACKSON.

Present.... tll
the Judges.
Mk party
CALDWELL, the clerk of this Court, obtained a
" lible t the rule against Jackson, to show cause why an attachment
cbait for = should not issue for non-payment of his fees in the sut

