SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE UNITED STATES
Feb.

13th.

HUDSON AND GOODWIN

.dbsent.... Wash/ngtonjustice.
THIS was a case certified from the Circuit Court
for the District of Connecticut, in which, upon argument
of a general demurrer to an ndictment for a libel on the
mon
President and Congress of the United States, contained
diction in cases..-slen
of libel aunst in the Colnnecticut Currant, of the 7th of May, 1806.,
the govercharging them with having in secret voted two millions
ofCnt
the
United States. of dollars as a present to Bonaparte for leave to make
that Court were diBut
the they othave a treaty with Spain, the judges of
vided in opinion upon the question, -whether the Circuit
fine
tempts, to im-Cmrt if the United States had a common law 3 ursdiction
prison for contumacy, and 7,n Cases of libel.
o
The c
the U. States
have no corn-

to enforce the
observance of
their orders,

.c

P1xxKNmy, Attorney General, in behalf of the United
States, and DANA for the Defendants, declined arguing
the case.
The Court, having taken time to consider, the following opinion Was delivered (on the last day of the term,
all the judges being present) by JonusoN, J.
The only question whnch this case presents is, whether,
the Circuit Courts of the United States can exercise a
common law jurisdiction in criminal cases. We state it
thus broadly because a decision on a case of libel will
apply to every case in which jurisdiction W not vested in
those Courts by statute.
Although this question is brought up now'for the first
time to be decided by this Court, we consider it as having been long since settled in publk opinion., In no
other case for many years has this jurisdiction been asserted, and the general acqknescence..of legal men shews
the prevalence of opinion in favor of the negative of the.
proposition.

FxiBRUARV TRAMt isi,

3

The course of reasorng which leads to this conclu- u. STATES
T.
sion is simple, obvious, and admits.of but little illustration. The powers of the general Government are made HUDSON
up of concessions from the several states-whatever is GOODWIN.
hot expressly given to the former, the latter expressly
reserve. The judicial power of the United States is a
constituent part of those concessioiN 1-that power i to
be exercised by Courts organized fotthe purpose, and
brought into existence by an effort of the legislative power of the' Union. Of all the Courts which the United
States may, under their general powers, constitute, one
ofily, the Supreme Court,, possesses jurisdiction derived
immediately from the constitution, and oT which the leg;.
islative power cannot deprive it. All other Courts crgated by the general Government possess no jurisdiction
but what is given them by the power that-.creates them,
and can be vested with none but what the power ceded
to the general Government will authorize them to conferi
It is not necessary to inqure- whether the general
Government, i any and what extent, possesses the power of conferring on its Courts a jurisdiction in cases
similar to the present; it is enough that such jurisdiction has not been conferred by any legislative act, if it
does" not result to those Courts as a consequence of their
creation.
And such is the opinion of the majority of this Court:
For, the power which congress possess to create Courts
of inferior jurisdiction, necessarily implies the power
to limit the jurisdiction of those Courts to particular
objects, and when a Court is. created, and its opera.
tions confined to certain specific objects, with what propriety'can it assume to itself a jurisdiction-much more
extened--in its 'hature very indefinite-applicable to a
great variety of subjects-varying in every state in the
Union-and with regard to which there exists no definite criterion of distribution between the distript and
Circuit Courts of the same district?
The only ground on which it has ever been contended
that this jurisdiction could be maintained is, that, upon the formation of any political body, an implied power to preserve its own existence and promote the end
and object of its creation, necessarily results q it. But,
VOL. VIL
C.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U.

STATES

W.
HUDSON

OO°W

without examining how far this consideration is appfIl
cable to the peculiar character of our constitution, it

& may be remarked that it is a principle by no means

.peculiar
.
to the common law. It is coeval, probably,
.'-withthe first fdrmation of a limited Government, belongs to a system of -unversal law, and may as well support the assumption of many other powers as those more
peculiarly acknowledged by the common law of England.
But if admitted as applicable to the state of things in
this country, the consequence would not result from it
which is here contended for. If it may communicate
certain im2plied powers to the general Government) it
would not follow that the Courts of that Government
are vested with jurisdiction over any particular act
done by an individual in supposed violation of thi peace
and dignity of the sovereign power. The 'legislative
authority of the Union -must first make an act a crime,
affix a punishment to itp and de6lare the Court that shal
have jurisdiction of the offence.
Certain implied powers must necessarily result to.
our Courts of-justice from the nature of their institution.
Biit jurisdiction of crimes against the state is not among
those powers. To fine for contempt-.-imprison for contumacy-inforce the observance of order, &c. are powers which cannot be dispensed with in a Court, because
they are necessary to thie exercise of all others and so
Var our Courts no doubt possess powers not immediately
derived from statute, but all exercise of ciminal jurisdiction in common law cases we are of opinion is not
within their implied powers.
ALEXANDER SHIRRAS, IQHINBLACIK, '7ILLIAM MILLI.Q_&N, WILLAM BLACKLOCK,

Fb.

13th.

& JOSEPH VERREES,
T.

JOHRN CAIG & ROBERT MITCHEL.
Absent ... WashIngton, justice.
A mortgage of
RO oteCrutCor o h itmto
of
bistyct
y
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the
land,
one who ha a Georgia, by Shirras.and others orignal Complainants,

