FEBRUARY TERU 18.
opinion in the Court. It is however, unnecessary to CLAU8s
state the reasoning on which this opinion is founded, nx'is.
T.
since the congtructiongiven to the letter of the 16th of
cAM1_kY,
March, 1801, decides the cause.
TON.

It is the opinion of the Court, that there is no errorl
and that the judgnentbeiaffirmed.

DICKEY

V.
THE BALTIMORE INSURANCE COMPANY.

1803.
13th.

Feb.

Present....J.I1 the Judges, except' ToD, J,

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the distaet ofA policyofin
Maryland, in an action, on a policy of Insurance upon Vs ,Ise|
' at
Pe "a
'
the slup Fabius, "at and from New Yorkto B arbadoes, and from, an
herma
proisland,
from
teets
"cand at and from thence to Trinidad, alid at and
taltsg fero
"Trinidad, back to New York."
port to pord o9

dd tothe

The ship proceeded to Barbad~es, and from thence tae
to the port of Spain, -in the island of Trinidad, being go.
the only port of entry. an the island. Having taken in
part of her return cargo, she sailed from thence for
Port Hyslop, in the same island, for the residue. In
the way she was lost by the dangers of the seas.
'On the trial below, the opimon of the Court was iii
favor of the Defendants, and the Plaintifftook his bill
of exceptions, and brought the case up by writ of error,
hARPER; for the Plaintiff ti error, stated, that the

only question was,

Whether the terms c4 at andfrom Trinulad," authorized the ship .to sail from one port of the islknd to another port of the same island, to complete her cargo ?

island to
ac ar

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VxCa-Y
v.
BALTriINS. CO.

To show that she was so authorized, he relied on the
case of lBond v. -Nutt, Cozop. 601, and Thlusson v.
'Fergison Dbug. 346. .arshall, 255. 257 (Bostou edo)
Pl-KNEY,

dttornek General, contra.

The opinion of. the Court belqw was founded upon the
reason of tlie thing, and upon the idea that the late
English cases were not authority.
The vessel was not within the -policy while sailing
from port to port in the island. She was lost on the
high seas, and was not protected by the policy, unless
she was justified by some usage of trade. But no such
usage was proved. In the case of Bond I- NTVrutt, the vessel was a general ship, and the usage of the trade was
to take goods for several different ports in the island
of Jamaica. That island has many ports of entryTrinidad has only.oric.
There is no case in which a
vessel has been permitted to d6pat from a port, and return to it again, under such a policy She was not literall' at the island. Analogy is against the doctrine,
and 66 is the reason of the thing.
HARVER, 11n repty.

In the cases cited by Marshall, there is no allusion to
the course or usage of the trade. Nor does the- Court
lay any stress upon the fact, that iftere were many ports
of entry in Jamaica. Although there was only one port
of entry in Trinidad, yet there were other ports at
which they might iA fact takexin a cargo.
Feb. ITth...MARsHALL, Ch. b. delivered the opinion
of the Court as followa
t on
This action was brought on a policy, insuring the
Fabius at and from New York to Barbadoes, and at
and from thence to the island of Trinidad, and at and
from Trinidad back to New York. The Fabius arrived
at the port of Spain, in the island of Trinidad, on the
21st of October, in the year 1806, where she remaied until the Sth of December, when she sailed, under
a special license from the proper authorities, for fort
Hyslop, another port in the island, for the purpose of pro-

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

329

curing and taking in a part of her return cargo, and DICKP.
V;
with a iew of returmng to the port of Spain, that being
the only port in the island of Trinidad at which vessels, BALTIarrivingfrom othqr places, were permitted to enter, or -xonE
from which those destinpd on foreign, voyages were per- INs. Co.
mitted to clear. While on her voyage to fort Hyslop,
the Fabius was lost by the danger of the seas, and
the question is, whether this loss is within the policy?
Were this a case of -the first inpression,-were it to
be decided for the first, time on the irtention of the
parties to be collected solely from the words of the contract, some contrariety of opinion might undoubtedly
be looked for, and it is uncertain what nught be the opinion of the Court.
Strictly speaking a vessel is not at an island while
sailing from one port to another of the same island,
yet it is difficult to resist the persuasion, that somethimig
more is meant by an insurance at and from' an island.
than by an insurance at and from aport. The words, at
and from an island, and at and from ifport, are not synonimous, and yet in effect the same meaning would
often be given to them, if the privileke of sailing f-iom
one port.to another, for the purpose of completing the
cargo, should not be granted by the policy. An insurauce to an island may terminate at the first port, an&
the expression may be adopted from the uncertainty at
what port the vessel insured may first arrive, but it
seems difficult to put any other construction on an insurance at and from an island, or to assign any other
motive for the risk being so described, than that it is a
license to use the different ports of the island, for the
purpose of obtaining the return cargo. This particular
policy furnishes strong reason for this constrnction. It
is difficult to read it without feeling a conviction that
the intention of 'the contract was 'to ensure the whole
voyage from and to New York, and to have the liberty
of the islands of Barbadoes and Trinidad. There being
but one port in the island of Trinidad, at which a vessel was permitted to enter or clear, takes away every
inducement f6r inserting in the policy the words at and
from the island of Trinidad, rather than the words at
and from the port of Spain, in the island of Trinidad,
unless those words secure the liberty of going to other
11,3
V1OT, VT.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
DiCiKFY ports, for the purpose of completing the cargo, and of
V.;
returning to the port of Spain, to clear out for NewYork.
But the words of this policy arenotnow to receive their
co. -first construction. In Crmuleu v. Cowley, mentioned I
-.41arshalt, 166, a ship was insured from London to Jamaica generally, and by a subsequent policy she was insured at andfrom .amawa to London.

MORFI

iNs.

The ship having touched and staid for some days at
one port of Jamaica, was lost -in coasting the island,
but before she had delivered all her outward cargo at the
other ports of the island.
In an action on the homeward polic, the claim of the
insured on the underwriters was resisted, not on the
principle that the words at and from did not imply a
permission to use all the ports of the island, not on the
principle that sailing from one port to another was a deviation, but on the principle that therisk on the outward policy had not terminated, and that consequently
the risk on the homeward policy had not commenced
when tme loss happened.
A verdict was found against the underwriters, and a
new trial was refused.
In Pond *V..Autt,the insurance was made on a shipat
and fron. Jaimaca to London, warranted to sail before
the first of August, 1770. The ship sailed from St.
Anus in Jamaica, on the 26th of July, for Bluefields,
aso in Jamaica, in order to join a convoy there. She
was detained at Bluefields by an embargo, until the 6th
of August, when she sailed with the convoy, but being
separated from it, was captured. On this policy a ver
diet was given-in favor of the underwriters, under the
direction of Lord Mansfield, and a motion for a new
trial was resisted on two grounds.
ist. That a departure from St. Anns, was not a departure from Jamaica.
2d. That going to Bluefields, was a deviation, that
being out of the course of the voyage from St. Anns to
London,

FEBRUARY TERM isis,
After great consideration, jhe Court was unanimously
of opinion in favor of the motion.
Lord Mansfield in giving his opinion, said, " as nei" ther party knew from what part of the island the ship
", would sail, they used the words at and fiom Jamaica,
- which protected her in going from port to port, till
" she sailed." He also said, ,, had the insurance been
cc at and from St. Arns" the going round the island. to
" Bluefields, would have been a deviation."
In Thelussoi "v. Furmtsmi, an insurance was made "fit
and from Gaudaloipe to Havre, wprranted to sail on or
before the 31st December." The vessel took in her
cargo at Point Petre in Ga. ilaloupe, and for the purpose of obtaining convoy, sailed on the 24th of October,
to Basseterre, where there is no port, but only gn open
road. She was there detained tillthe i0th of January,
when she sailed with convoy, but was captured on the
return voyage.
The Plaintiffs obtained fL verdict. A motion was
made for a new trial, which Vas refused. Lord Mansfield said, "under an insurance" ;t and from such a
place as Gaudaloupe or Jamaica, the word "cat" coniprises the whole island, and under that word, the ship is
protected in going from port to pbrt, round the coast of
the islan~d.
The underwriters not being satisfied with this decision, another action was afterwards brought on the same
policy against Staples, also an underwriter But upon
that action, the only point insisted on, was that thevessel had not sailed by the stipulated day
It appears then to be the settled doctrine of the Courts
of England, that an insurance ".at and from an island"
such as those in the West Indies generally, insures the
vessel while coasting from port to port of the island, for
the purpose of the voyage insured. It is dangerous to
change a settled construction on policies of insurance.
It is the opinion of this Court, that tile Circuit Court
erred in not giving the instruction prayed for by the

IcKE-Y
1o
BALTI

onE
i-s. co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
j)wKny counsel for the Plaintiff, and that tfle judgment be
IV. reversed, and the case remanded to that Court with
BALTIdirections, to give the instructions prayed' for by the
monr
Plaintiffs, as stated in the bill of exceptions filed in the
INs. co. cause.

1813.
Feb.

15tb,

THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
&XANRIA
V.

HODGSON.

Present.....Olt the Judges except TOnD, J.
Upon an action
on

a valued
policy, if a
inisrelresen-

taton of tht

age & tonnage
orthe vessel,

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Cirandria, in a suit in equity, brought by the Marine Insuance Company of Alexandria against Hodgson, to
ewjoin so much of a judgment at law obtained by the
cuit Court for the district of Columbia, sitting at Alex-

htter against the former, as exceeded the value of the

whereby the
underwriters brig Hope as found by the jury in a special verdict
were induced upon a valued policy.
to ag e to a
hlgh
lbe a'valuaton,
d'n.
It was, contended in the bill that the age and tonnage
;tis at law and
a
ai
tin eauity. of the vessel was misrepresented, and that such tore-

preswntation' induced the Complainants to value the
ship at 10,000 dollars, when in fact she was worth only
3,300 dollars, as specially found by the jury on the trial at law- .She was represented to be about 250 tons
burthen, when she was only 161 tons, and to be from
six to seven years old when she was between nine and
ten years old.
The bill also alleged as a ground for relief, the refusal of the Court below to receive two pleas offered by
the Complainants oni the trial at law, the rejection of
which pleas had been assigned for error in this Court
when the cause was here last; (see .Ante. -vol. 6. p. 206)
but this Court thought the rejection of a plea no ground
for a writ of error, ai)d therefore gave no opinion as to
the propriety of admitting theme

