SUPREME COURT U. Sr
BRIG

PENoE-

specting the necessity of commg in, by reason of stress
of weather, did not seem to be sufficiently proved.

SV.OT

The cause was argued by P B. Ktky, for the Appelu.STATES. lants.. and 1. R. INGrRsOL, for the U. S. 4"
It was contended by KEY, for the appellants,
1. That the cargo was not taken on board with intention of importing the same into the United States.
'2. That the vessel was forced into Gockspur Harbor,
by stress of weather, to save the vessel and the lives of
the crew, and while so making the harbor, she was
boarded by a revenue cutter, and seized, and forced into
the port of- Savannah.
3. That she had a right to come into the waters of
the U. S. to make inquiry whether she could be permitted to enter, and before a reasonable time had expired,
she was forcibly seized and carried in.

4. That coming into the waters of the U. States, under either of the above circumstances, does not constitute an unportation,without other and further voluntary
acts on the part of the vessel.
Feb. 23....MA RSHALL, Ch. J. stated the opinion of
the Court to be, that the vessel came at her peril, that
she was bound to get infoimatibn, but was n'egligent
in not calling at A.melia Island, and in not inquiring of
the vessel winch she spoke off the port of Savannah.
1813.
Feb.

2Oth.

&ntence affirmed.
CAZE AND RICHAUD
T.

THE BALTIMORE INSURANCE COMPANY.

T.[heunder-

ritersupond

a cargo are

.hsent....TODD,

.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Maryland in an action of inebitatus assumpsitfor freight
0 The Reporter was absent.

FEBRUARY TERM 183.
of goods' by the ship Hamilton from Bordeaux to Hali-

CAZU

&

RICHAUD

fax.

W0._[AA.TI-

In the Court below a case was agreed by the parties,
which was in substance as follows.

MORE
INS. Co.

On the 28th of July, 1805, .Mr John, Ducorneau, of
Bordeaux, the agent of the Plaintiffs, slapped for them,

not liable for

pu.
offrelsht
orata tiaeris
o •
there, on their account, on board the ship Hamilton,

to

'which they 'were owners, a cargo of the value of the owner of
vessci,
S22,986 on avoyage from Bordeaux to .ew York wlhre the
who isalso
the-Plaintiffs resided. On the voyage she was captur- onerof the
ed by a British vessel of war and carried into Halifax, cargo insured,
ite vesgei and
.
where the ship and cargo were condemned. W
due time after the Plaintiffs heard of the capture, they cargou were
abandoathe
cargo red,
abandoned as for A total loss to the Defendants who aGaaPt
unte
to
ed
insured.
amount
the.
paid
cepted the abaudbnment and
sierwriters as
a total loss and

From the sentence of condemnation n the vice ad- bytkem accepted, the
miralty Court as to the vessel and cargo. but not as to loss
pais, the
freight, there was an appeal, upon which tile seitence
was reversed and the proceeds of the vessel and cargo desned, esupoa apwere restored. The proceeds of the cargo were paid tored and
the

over to the underwriters, but the sum they received
was less than the sum they had paid upon the policy

peal

proceedsofthe
earn t6paid
th6
over
undeywriters.

pro
The question, upon tins case, was, whether the Plain- Freigit
is
idnes
r due
unldss
andupncargo, were_no,
he uderrites
tiffs, who were owners of both-omvessel
of
owner
the
carthe
upon
underwriters
the
from
erititled to recover

go, freight from Bordeaux to Halifax.

vet-,
cargoagree
the
untrily
to receive it

HJmurE, for Plinniffs in error, contended that they atsapiaceshoit
destination.

were so entitled.

The underwriters who became the owners of the cargd at Halifax,, were benefitted by the.transportation
from Bordeaux. The cargo was liable for its frieght.
The underwriters received the whole proceeds. So
nmch thereof as amounted to the value of the freight
was received by them to the use of the Plaintiffs as
owners of the ship.
PlNKNF.Y, .Attorney'General,contra.
This action certainly cannot be maintained upon an
insurer's liability for fqight under a policy ,i cargo.

SULPREME COURT U. 9.
C-44z &
ftTtU16D

•v.
.3ALTr?aon

The case of Baillie ad.Alfodigliam, 2, Mdarsh. 728, is
decisive to that effect and even if an insurer were liable for freight under the policy, lie must be sued upon
that, and could not be made to answer for it in this form
of action.

INS. CO.

But it is said that tins clami does not rest on the policv; but founded upon the idea, that as the underwriters
became proprietors (by" the abandonment and accep.tance) of the cargo, or rather of the proceeds of the cargo, at Halifax,taley succeeded to the burthen as well as
to the benefit, and must consequently pay 'freight pro
rata itinens to the Plamtiffl as owners of the ship.
- To fins it may be answered, that if any freikht wag
•due, it was due from the Plaintiffs themselves, 'because
-it was earned whi1k they were the owners of the goods,
adl because the abandonment could not throw upon the
uiddrwriters a responsibility for freight for which the
assured were already liable There could be no privi"ty~ofcontract between the insurers and the ship owners
with reference to such freight, and the ship owners
could have no lien on the proceeds arising from the sales
under the condemnation.

t3it no fr, ght was due. The goods belonged to the
owners of the ship, and of coursetthe bill of lading did
not call foV- freighr. On the contrary it declared that
no f 6ight was to be paid, "the cargo bezn,, owner's prop)ertI.1i To imply a contract between the owners of
the cargo and themselves to pay freight to themselves,
and that two against the bill of lading, would be absurd.
It follows, that at the time of the abandonment, the
Plaintifs had no. right, either complete or inchoate to
freight.upon ti goods insured. If it were even admitted, then, to the.utmost extent contended for, that the
insurers, accepting the abandonment, took the cargo cum
onere, they could not be charged with freight'in this
case, since the thing insured was3 when they succeeded
to it, free from such a charge. If they became liable
for freight they did not take simply cuit onere, for the
onus relied upon by the Plaintiff's counsel did not exist
when the subject-matter came to them by abandonment.
The abandonment and acceptance must have created,
not passed, it. If indced the ship had.afterwards per.-

FEBRUARY TtiM 1813.
formed any service to the underwriters with respect to CAz9E &
these goods, an assumpsit might be implicd'pro tanto imicilAxm
0.
against them, but this demand is for freight supposed
to have been earned while the goods belonged to the 3ALTIPlaintifib, and were expressly, as well as from the na- MorL
INs. Co.
ture of the transaction, exempt from freight.
The docrme of lien which has been spoken of by the
Plaintiffs counsel cannot serve his cause; for the Plaintiffs could have no lien for freilit which was not due,
even if there could be a subsisting lien upon thcse proceeds, for freight which 7was due.
But freight was not due, for other reasons. It-may
be conceded that freight is in some cases dlue pro rata
itiners, where the voyage being intercepted, the owner
of the cargo consents to receive it at a place short of its
destination. But lie must be a volunteer. A forced
receipt, as on tins occasion, has'never been adjudged to
give a title to pro rata freight. Besides, tlis cargo wds
lost, and even if the proceeds had covered the value. it
may vell he questioned, notwithstanding tie dictum in
.aiflie and Modliglianm, whether by taking the proceeds,
the owner gives a right to pro ratafreight,
But however that may be, it can scarcely be maintained that a forced acceptance (by the owner or by an insurer to whom an abandonment has been made) of proceeds far short of the value, (as was the fact here) will
give such a rieht.
llAiPri, sn

reply.

The case in Marshall wants the essential ingredient
of ownership in the person making the abandonment.
It was too a case of partial loss. The Defendants in
the present case are sued, not as underwriters, but as
owners of goods liablh for freight. The benefit they
receive from the transportation of the goods is a good
foundation for an implied promise. The decision in
Burrow's reports, of consent to receive the cargo liable
pro rata itinerzs has never been questioned.
February 21th....STo
the Court as follows
VOl. VIP,

, t. delivered the opimon of
4.'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tAZE

&

RICHAUD

The present action is brought to recover freight pro
rata itinert, under the following circumstances
'V..

The Plaintitis were the owners of tht ship Hamilton
and cargo, and effected insurance of her cargo on a voyrNs. co. age from Bordeaux to New York. The sum of ii-,000
was underwritten by theDefendants-the sum of SiO,O00
at Philadelphia, and the residue of the value of the cargo
(51986,) was left uninsured. During the voyage the ship
and cargo were captured, carried into Haliltax, and there
condenmed. The Plaintiffs abandoned to the underwriters and received payment for a total loss. An appeal from the sentence of condemnation was interposed
and the sentence finally reversed, and the proceeds of
the cargo, which had been previously sold by order of
-Court, were paid over to the underwriters in piroportion
to the sums underwritten by them respectively.
BALTImoRpE
-

We are all of opinion that the Plaintiffs are not entitlbd to recover in the present action.
In the first place the Court are satisfied that, as between the insured and the underwriter on the cargo of a
.hVp. the Latter is in no case responsible for the payment
of freight, whether there be an abandonment or not. It
is a charge on the cargo against which he does not undertake to indemify the owner, and if authority be
necessary to support the position, it is fully borne out
by the doctrine of lord Mansfield in Baillic v. M7odiz"
liam, O[arshqll, 720.
In the next place we' ae all of opinion that no freight
whatsoever was, underthe. circumstances of thus case, due.
Freight, in general, is not due unless the voyage -be.
performed. Here the ship and cargo never arrived at
their port of destination, and of course the whole freight
could not be due. Was a pro rata freight due? We,
think not. The whole class of cases resting on the authority of Luke -o. LDde (2 Btri 88.) procced on the
ground that there is a voluntary acceptance of the goods
themselves at an intermediate port, and not, as in the
present case, a compulsive receipt from the hands of the
admiralty after capture and condemnation, and ultimate
restcration upon the appeal. There is, in our judgInent, no equity to support such a claim, and although

363

FEBRUARY TERM isis.

it receive countenance from some.remarks incidentally
thrown out in Bailli "v..JModiglianz, the current of
more recent authority, as well as of principle, cleaily

CAzE &
RIcHiuD

T.

points the other way.

DALTI*ORE

It may be further added- that as between the insured
and the underwriter tie existence of a lien on the cargo
for freight does not vary the legal responsibility of the
underwriter on such cargo afteran.abatndonment.

INS.

Co.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with
,o;.ots.

18W.

THE SCHOONER 3ANE

Feb.

17th.

THE UNITED STATES,

Preseut.....l the Judges except

TODD,

.

In a proseec.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Cir
apainst
tJof
for vo-a
that
esL"
reversing
Maryland,
of
district
cuit Court for the
of a law
of the District Court, which condemned the schooner latlon
of the itUrned
is not
States
Jane for violation of the non-intercourse act.
necessary to

NIcHoLsoN, for .9ppellant,
Contended that there ought to have been positive
proof of the identity of the vessel.

PINx:NiT, .ttorney General.
If these cases are to be likened to criminal proseci..
tions, and if the same strictness be required, it will be
Impossible to execute the laws. No proof was offered
on the part of the Claimant. But there is sufficient
proof of identity-she is the same kind of vessel, has
of
the same name, belongs to the same port, has a master of
time
the
and
cargo,
same
the same name, had the
her sailing from Port au Prince, corresponded with the
time of her arrival at Baltimore, allawing the umal
time for performing the voyage.

adducepositive

testimony of
the identity of
the vessel.

