SUPREM E COURTU. S.
Court, the executibn recited in the bond on which the
second judgment was rendered. 'This difficulty can
mP&,
Ta W& never occur except incases where all the proceedings
nYAmi.
in the original judgment, except the execution, are al-.-before this Court. The execution, therefore.
though no part of either the original or deptndent record, being certified by the proposed writ, will supply
the only link necessary to prove the connexion between
the two judgments.
3xiToN
A.

'---eady

." 14 this case, ther Court from the novelty of the practice necessary to be adopted, will not permit the Plaintiff in error to suffer in consequence of his not having
applied sooner for a writ of certiorari, but will now direct the same to issue. In future the party must take
the consequences of his neglect, if lie should fail to have
the execution, certified in time.
Jtarch 16th.... WAs HNGTo, J. The Court has examined the execution which has been sent up by certioran, and is satisfied that the judgment on which it issued is that which was reversed at the last term. The
.judgment, therefore, on the forthcommg bond must be
reversed also.
Judgmeut reversed.

ISIS.
Feb.

5th.

MIMA QUEEN AND CHILD,
PETITIONERS FOR FREEDOM,
T.

HEPBURN.

Fresent.a..llthe AJdges except
fie.sa o.,.

denc) Is ntompetent to
eatabAlh
any
epecifo fact,

TODD, J.

E.ROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Colhmbia, sitting at Washington.
At the trial severaL bills of' exception. were taken.

FEBRUARY TiR:

1813.

29i

. The first was for the rejection of part of the depo- mu
"sition of Caleb Clarke,. who deposed to a fact respect- qvu&nn
ing the ancestor of the petitioners which belhad heard pun-v.
his mother say bhe had frequently heard from her faKBPRUM .
tier.
whebl is, in
Susits
naturle,
I
2. The second was for overruling pat of the deposition of Freeders Ryland, which stated whatIre had eptible of beby
lag provedvho
heard Mary, sthe ancestor of the petitioners, say re- witnesses

specting her own place of birth and residence.

3. The third exception stated that after a juror was

sicak froi4

their own

knowledge.

Claims tc free-

sworn the petitioners excepted to Im because he was d6m in M-aV-not
land are.fronm
not an inhabitant of the county, but the Court overruled exempt
general
that
exception.
the
rule.

talisman being After a Juror
4. The fourth exception-stated that a
ble
challenged for favor, and having, upon .being question- ceptiontocanhim
taken
that,
such
be
ta
of-slavery
detestation
ed, avowed his
acunt i
for the peti-his being
in a doubtful case, he would find a verdict
e- habitant of ationers, and that he, had so expressed..Ifhimself withwere
fther
e
or
a jucounty.
. that if the testimony
...
and
case,
very
this
to
gard

find a verdict for these petiequal lie should certainly
Y
nS
th Cout

challenged lotr

exammation
tiones instructed tile trers that he did not-fa,'o
i upon
tioners the Court
before the trystand indifferent between the parties.
ers, hedeclare

5. The fifth exception was similar to the second

shoulev
that ifthe
be equal

lhc"

should give
faor:a
6. The sixth exception stated that the petitioners, yetdiet in
pfty
rthat
having read the deposition off R. Disney, stating that o
respecting uro, .,.hiom
he had heard a report from divers persons
ancestor of' the pC- pofdlies, theo

the manner of the importation of the
Court in the
titioners, &c. the Court instructed .the jury that if they
of exercise of a
the evidence, that the existence
should believe from stated
discreby the deponent of his own "ondought
not epor
he report wasthe
to
wasnotion
al'knowledge, but from what had been communicated to rejeethun,

many though the hihim respecting the existence of such a report
after her importation, without its appearing by be So stron. as
years
whom or in what manner the same was communicated to render it
positively in-

to at.
to him, then the evidence is incompetent to prove either proper
low him to hi:
the existence of such report, or the truth of it.
F S. Kuy, for the Vtintffs va error.
The principal exception isto the opinton of the Court
that -in tracmg a pedigrte, the hearsay of hearsay is

sworn

-SUPREME COURT U. S.
t3.iA
Q(luFU.E &
cumI
7).
=p urm.

not admissible. Caleb Clarke's deposition, as to what
he heard Ins mother say was admitted, but, as to what
he heard his mother say her father said, was rejected.
If this opinion be correct it will be impossible to prove
any antient fact.
JonN Liw, contra.
Hearsay is only admissible. on the ground of necessii Wash 123. 2 Wash. 1i*8. There
was no evidence of the death of the'person whose declarations were given in evidence. Hearsay of hearsay
is'analogous to a copy of a. cqpy The witness ought
at least to state fr'om whom lie hqrd the report.

ty and antiquity

jox-ns, ot the same side.
Every claim to freedom ought to be supportef by the
pame kind of evidence as is necessary to support other
claims. There is no rule of law that exempts it from
the general principles of evidence. In the presentcase
Ilie hearay %as not introduced to prove pedigr& nor
prescrption,-norcustom, hut to prove that a certain antester came from England. It was the neglect of the
parties ihat they (lid inot urge thei. clairn whiie they
had legal evidence to support it. 5 7. R 121. 03tram
,v. 31orewood. Although a general r gut may be proved
by traditionary evidence, a particular fact cannot, except in tracing a pedigree. The admission of hearsay
is an exception to the general rule of evidence, and
therefore must be confined strictly to the excepted
cases, which are prescnption, custom and pedigree, cases
in w,'hich the streigthi of theclim depends upon its untiquitv lie who would use hearsay as evidence must
first prove all the facts which would entitle him to use
it, and must satisfy the Court that better evidence cannot be had. The hearsay must be of such afact as, if
the person were living, could be given in evidence by
him. Hearsay evidence of a general reputation of a
fact is not admissible. The witness lumself must know
the fact of general reputation.
There are two objections to Disney's deposition: i.
That lie does not state who informed him, so that it
may be known whether that person be living or not so

I"EBRUARY TERM

8i3.

2",

as lumsclf to be a witness ;-and, 2. That a general re- MIMA
QuEEB &
not evidcnce.
putation of a fact is,
CHIL.D

MORSEL.L, zu reply.

V.
HEP]BURN.

The general rule of evidence is, that if the evidence
offered be the best which the nature of the -case .admits,
and leaves.,no presumption that there is better behind,
it is admissible.
Such evidence as tins is always admitted iln the
Courts of Maryland, under whose laws this case was
tried, and its use had been sanctioned by the authority
of the n.ghest Court of that state. The case cited by
the opposite counsel shows that it is admitted not only
in cases of prescription, custom and pedigree, but in all,
cases of the like vature. So it has been received in setilement eases, in all cases of paupers, and in questions of
antient boundares in (jectment. The evidence taken
upon commissions to iuirk and bound lands, under the
statute of Maryland, generally, consist$ of testimony of
this kind. I Harrisand AIHenry's Reports, 8.1, 85. After a IPapse of 100 years better evidence than tlus cannot be expected. The general reputation of the fact'
that the ancest9r.was free is sufficient to rebut the presumption rmsing, from color, and throws- the burden of
proof on the ctler side.
As to the admission of liearsay, he cited Peake's ev.

10 to :t3,zd. dppendix, p. 1.8.
February i3th....MARsuiAr., Ch... delivered the opinmn of the Court as follows:
Thi was a suit instituted by the Plaintiffs in the Circuit Court of -the United States for the County df
Washington,. in which they claim freedom. On the
trial of the issue certain depositions were offered by the
Plaintiffs. which were rejected by the Court and excep.
tions were taken. The verdict and judgment bemin
rendered for the Defendants, the Plaintiffs have brought
the cause into this Court by writ of errdr, and the case
depends on the correctness of thni several opinions
given by the Circuit Court.

294

SUPREME COURT U. IS.

Tlie first opinion of the Court to which exception
& was taken was for the rejection of part of the deposicHu,. tion of' Caleb Clarke, who deposed to a fdt which he
had heard his mother say sie had frequently Jicard
TI.
31IM

wrFxiv

unr:nB-i.

from her father.

The second exception is to the opinion oaitruling
part of the deposition of'Freeders Ryland, whcbstated
what lie had heard Blary, the ancestor of the Plaintiffs,
say respecting her own place of birth and residence.
The fifth exception is substantially the same with the
in form,
The question
second.
to which
no and
exDefendantvaried
givn by isthesomewhat
the testimony
ception was taken is recited, and the hearsay evidence
is then offered as historical, but the Court perceives
no difference in law between the second and fifth exceptions.
The sixth erception is taken to an instruction given
by the Court,to the jury on the motion of the counsel
for the Defendants. The Plaintiffs had read the deposition of Richard Disney, who deposed that lie had heard
a great deal of talk about Mhry Queen, the ancestor of
the Plaintiffs, and. has heard divers persons say that
Captain Larkin brought her into tins country, and that
she had a great many fine clothes, and that old William
Chapman took her on shore once, and that no body
would buv her for some time, until at last James Earoll bought her.
Whereupon the Defendant's counsel moved the Court
to instruct the jury that if they find-the existence of
this repoyt and noise was not stated by the witness from
his knowledge, hut from what had been communicated
to him respecting the existence of such a report and
noise many years after her importation, without its appearing.by -whom or in -what manner the same was communicated to hun, then the evdence is incompetent to
prove either the existence of-such report and noise or
the trath of it: wbich instruction the Court gave.
The Plaintiffs also read the deposition of Thomas
'Warfield, who deposed that John Jiams, an inspector of
toliaeco, told him that-Mlary the ancestor of the Plain-

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
tQffs was free and was brought into this. country by xIrA
Captain\Larkin, and was sbld for seven years. The qu.mx &
Court instructed the jury that if they should be satisfi- cmnr3n
v*
ed upon- the evidence that these declarations of John
Jiams were not derived, from his own knowledge, but HEPBUIL,
were founded on hearsay or xeport communicated tohun many years after the importation and- sale of tke
said Mary, without its appearing by whom or in what
manner such communication was made to him. then his
said declarations are not competent evidence 'in thins
oause. To these instructions the counsel for the Plaintiffs excepted.
These. several opinions of the Court depend on one
general principle. The decision of winch determines
them all. It is tlus That i arsay evidence is incompe-.
tent to establish any specific fact, Wich fact is in its nature susceptable of being proved by witnesses who
speak from their own knowledge.
However the feelings of the individual may- be interested on the part of a person claiming freedom, the
Court cannot perceive any legal distinction between the
assertion of this and of any other right, which will
justify the application of a rule of- evidence to cases of
tins description winch would be inapplicable to- general
cases in which a right to property may'be asserted..
The rule then winch the Court shall establish in tHis
cause will not, in its application, be confined to cases of
this particular description, but will be extended to
others where rights may depend on facts wlclr happened many years past.
It was very justly observed by a great judge that
"all que;tions upon the.i'ules of evidence are of vast
importance to all orders and degrees of men. our lives,
our liberty, and our property are all concerned in the
support of these rules, which have been matured by the
wisdom of ages, and are now revered from their anfiquity and the good sense in which they are founded."
One of these rules is, that " hearsay" evidence is in
its own nature inadmissible. That this species of testimony supposes some better testimony which might be
adduced in the particular case, is not the sole ground

98

Si)TPRE

C9IT as.

of its exclusion. Its intrinsic weakness j its incompaMIMA
qeuisJ & tency to.satisfy the- mind of the existence. of the fact,
CniLD and the frauds which nght be practiced under its cover,
vcombine to sulporf the rule that hearsay evidence i toHFFErRR tally inadmissible.
To this rule there are some exceptions which are
said to be as old as the rule itself. These are cases of
pedigree, of prescription, of custom, and in some cases of
boundary. There are also matters of general and public ,history which may be received without that full
piroof which is necessary for the establishment of a private fact.
lit will be necessary only to examine the principles
on which these exceptions are founded to satisfy the
judgment that the same principles will' not justify-the

admission of hearsay evidenceto prove a spedfic fact,
because the eye witriesses to that fact are dead. But if
other cases standing on similar principles shoild arise,
it may well be doubted whether justice and the general
policy of the law would warrant the creation of new exceptions. The danger of admitting hearsay evidence
is suffidient to admonish Courts 'bf justice against ]ihtly yielding to the introduction of fresh exceptions to A
old and well established rale: the value of which 14 felt
and acknowledged by all.
If the circumstance, that the eye witnesses of any fact
be dead should justify the introduction of testimony to
establish that fact from hearsay, no man could feel safe
in any property, a claun to. which might be supported
by proof so easily obtained,
This subject was very ably discussed in the case of
the king. against the inhabitants of .Erfswell, where the
question related to the fact that a pauper had gained a
residence, a fact which it was contended might be
proved by hearsay evidence. In that case the Court
was divided, but it was afterwards determined that the
evidence was inadmissible.
This Court is of the same opinion.
The general rule comprehends the case, and the case
14 nat within any exception heretofore recognized.

FEBRUARY TERM 18is.
IThis Court is not inclined to extend the exceptions fur- mikt
tier than they have already been carried.
quEv &
CiII

There are other exceptions taken. which appear oil
0.
the record, but were not much relied upon in argument. HEPBURN6
The third exception is to the qualification- of one of
the jurors. He was called as a talisman, and wai
stated to be an inhabitant of the county of Alexandrianot of Washmgtoil. The Court decided that he was a
proper juryman, and lie was swqrn. After his being
sworn the objection was made by the Plaintiff's counsel,
and an exception was taken to the opinton'of the Court.
Whatever might have been the weight of this exception if taken in time, the Court cannot sustain it now.
The exception ought to have been nade before the juror
was sworn.
The fourth exception also applies to an opinion given
by the Circuit Court respecting the service of one of
the persons summoned as a juror. James Reed, when
called,.was questioned, and appeared to have formed
and expressed no opinion on the particular case, but
on being further questioned, he avowed his detestation
of slavery to be such that in a doubtful case he would
find a verdict for the Pfaintiffs; and that he had so expressed himself with regard to this very cause. He
addedthat if the testimony were equal he should certaily find a verdict for the Plaintiffs. The Court then
instructed the tryers that, he did not stand indifferent
between the pat-ies. To this instruction an exception
wag taken.
It is certainly much to be desired that jurors should
enter upon their duties with minds entirely free from
every prejudice. Perhaps on general and public ques.
tions it is scarcely possible to avoid receiving some prepossessions, and where a private right depends on such
a question the difficulty of obtaining jurors whose
minds are entirely uninfluencei by opinions previously.
formed is ardoubtedly considerable. Yet they ought to
be superior to every exception, they ought to stand perfectlyindifferent between the parties, and although the
bias wich was acknowledged in 'this case. might- iiot
VOL. VII.
39

SUPREME COURT U. S.
perhaps have been so stFong as to render it positively
& improper to allow the. juror to be sworn on the jury,
Ciuli yet it was desirable to submit the case to those who felt
V.
no bias either way, and therefore the Court exercised
nivilutN. a sound discretion in not permitting him to be sworn.
1aiMA
qUEEN

There is no error in the proceedings of the Circuit
Court, and the judgment is affirmed.
DuvALr, J.
The principal point in this case is upon the admissibility of hearsay evidence. The Court below admitted
hearsay evidence to prove the freedom of the ancestor
from whom the petitioners claim, but refused to admit
hearsay of hearsay. This Court has decided that hearsay evidence is iiot admissible to prove that the ancestor from whom they claim was free. From this opinion I dissent.
In Maryland the law has been for many years settled
that on a petition for freedom where the petitioner
claims, from an ancestor who has lieen dead for a great
length of time, the issue may be proved by hearsay evidence, if the fact is of such antiquity that living testimony. cannot be procured. Such was the opinion of
the judges of the general Court of Maryland, and their
decision was affirmed by the unanimous opinion of the
judges of the High Court of Appeals in the last eesort,
afteil full argument by the ablest counsel at the bar. 2
think the deusion was correct. Hearsay evidence was
admitted upon the same principle, upon which it is admitted. to prove a custom, pedigree and the boundaries
of land ,-because from the antiquity of the transactions
to which these subjects may have reference, it is impossible to produre living testimony, To exclude hearsay
in such cases, would leave the party interested without
remedy It was decided also that the issue could not
be prejudiced hy the neglect or omission of the ancestor.
If 'the ancestor neglected to claim her right, the i-sue
could not be bound by length of time, it being a natural
inberent right. It appears to me that the reason for admitting hearsay evidence upon a questiou of freedom
is much stronger thanin cases of pedigree or in controversies relative to the boundaries of land. It will be

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
universally admitted that the right to freedom is more MIMA
quFuN &
important than the right of property.
CHILD

10.
And people of -color from their helpless condition
HEPnrui.
entitled
are
a
master,
of
under theuncontrolled authority
to all reasonable protection. A decision that hearsay evidence in such cases shall not be admitted, cuts up
by the roots all claims of the kind, and puts a final end
to them, unless the claim should arise from a fact of
recent date, and such a case will seldom, perhaps never.

occur.

1813.

THE BANK OF COLUIBIA
V.

PATTERSON'S

.d

rrb

5tl,.

?eb.

Xlbsent JoHNsoN, J. and ToDD, 3.
ERROR to the Circuit Court fok the district of Columbia, in an action of indebitatits assumpsit, brought
by the Defendant in error against the president, directors, and company of the bank of Columbia, in their
corporate capacity. There were four counts only in the

declaration.

upon a speclaaucontract
tpartofthb
Plaintiff. In-

sumpsit
lie

for

will

the

price.
A simple

1st. Indebitatusassumpsit, for matters properly charge- contact is not
able ini account. 2d. Indebitatusass uanpsit,for wovrk and merged m a
labor done.

3d. quantum meruit,

and Ith, Ismul mert,

computassent.

The Defendant pleaded non assumpsit, and a tender

whicht
recogmerely
nizes
the
the
and fixesdebt,

ofassermode
taillig its amount

On the trial below, the Defendait took three bills of upon geneagrefa
exceptonsspeia
ral counts;
exceptions.
mentexecuted

The 1st stated, that the Plaintiffread m evidence a seal- imay be given
ed agreement, dated 10th December, 1807, between The, recital
Patterson and a duly authorized committee of the di- of a prior, m
rectors of the bank, under their private seals. It re- a later agreecites, that a difference of opinion had arisen between has been exe-

