MILLS v. DURYE.

1R/b.eflt.TODD,

Iigs.

3.

.iJ
debet] ea
Nil good
ERROR to the Circuit 0our for th d strict ofeAnota
Colhmbia in an action of debt up-in a judgment of the to an acto i
Supreme Court of the btate 'of New York to ,hxch the fbunded on a
po another state.
Defendant below Pilided "Ndil debel, whibh ple
general -demurrer, was adjudged bad.
By the constitutioh bf the United States, art. 4, sect.
1, it is declared; thAt .f4i1 faith ahd credit dhalI be
c,givei in each state, to the public aCtsi records and
",judicial pfbceedings of eVAi-y other state. And the
" Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the manner
"in which such acts, Ikeijrds and proceedings shall be
",lioved, aind the effect thereof."
The act of May,26th, 1790, vol 1, p. 115, after providing the mode by which they shall be authenticated,
declares, that ",the said records and jUdicial proceeda ihgs,authefticated as -aforesaid, shall have sich faith
"and gredit given to them, in every Court within the
-tUnited State8 as they have by lawi or usagei in the
" Courts of the strte from ivhence the said records are;
"or shall be, taken,"
And by the supplementary act of March 27th, 1804;

vol. 7, P.153, § 2;it ri declared, that the provisions 6f
the original act of 26th Mayi 1790, shall apply as well
to the records and Courts of the respective territories
of the Uiited States and countries subject to the juri§diction.of,the United States as to thevecords aid Courts
of the several statesi
F. S. Knrv for "Oldbityii errol'
Thd true coiisttuction of that part of. the constitition
iid 1aA -ofthe -UnitedStates will coiiflne their operatiofi to evileitwce oily, and" will not justify such an alted4tibh ln'Ctle rule§ of pleatding. The ,,effect" to. be
giI.tiWsuch-topiC is their -e'IJc6? ag eviaie,for it

VOL. VIL

R

SUPREME COURT. U S,
ts not pretended that an execution could issue here upon
D as
such a record.
v.
WuJtRYEEB.
If nd tiel record is the proper plea, or could be pleaded in such a case, there are no means of procuring and
inspecting the original record, (which is essential under
such an issue:) and the constitution and law, not having
-provided for tlus,'it must be presumed, did not intend it.
The record in this case is not the orninal-.itis cqrtified and authenticated as a copy, and therefore unless
entitled to inore faith and credit here than in New York,
it could not be offered to the Court upon the plea of mint
tier record, for under that issue this record, even in New
York, would not be admitted. The original must be
produced and inspected.
But if this record would.be entitled to such consideration in another state, by force of the constitution and
law, it is not entitled to it in this district, which is not a
state. I Dal. 11, Phelps v. RTolker id. 188, James v.
.Allen. I XN.Y T. R. 460, Hitchcock v. .dicken. I .Ofass.
T. R. 401, Bartlett v. Knight.
JoN.is, contra
It is admitted that a record authenticated pursuant ta
the act of Congress, is to have the effect of evdence only;
but it is eidence of the highest nature, viz. record evidence,
In, every case of debt or contract the form and effect
of the plea are determinfd by the dignity of that debt or
contract; in other words by the dignity of the evidence,
wliether it be of record, by specialty, or simple contract.
The act of Congress makes the authenticated exem.plication of the record equivalent to the nriginalrecord
n its proper state, and communicates to it the same
effect as evidence, thereby making it capable of sustaining the same averments in plea(ling, and of abidint the
sane .tests, as the origi al record. It therefore cannot
be deiied or controverted by any plea, such as nit debet,
vhih goes to put ni issue before the jury the matters
averred by the record) and the existence of the record

FEBRUARY TERM -1813.

*83

Itself, but the Defendant must either distintltr denf

iIiD
..
the record, or avoid it by pleading per fraudem, satisDUitEE.
faction, &c. 2 Dall. 302, .Armstrongv, Carson.
In allowing this conclusive effect to the evidence of
the authenticated record, it is immaterial that it has not
the further effect of enabling the ministerial officers of
the law to issue an execution thereon, for that objection would be equally valid against the record -when.
used in its proper state, but out of the jurisdiction of its
proper Court; and also against the sentences of foreiga
Courts of admiralty.under the law of nations,
The act of congress communicates to the authenticated record the effect of record evidence in all Couts
oitlhui the United States, and does not limit it to ..the
Courts ill any state, as supposed by the Plaintiff in
error.

Mare t 1th....STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows:
The question in fis case is whether nil debet is a
good plea to an action of debt brought in the Courts- of
this district on a judgment rendered in a 'Court of -record of tlie state of New York, one of the United States,
The decision of this question"depehids altogtheupo
the construction of the -constitution and laws of the
United States.
By the constitution it is declared that " full faith and
" credit shall be given in each state to the public acts ",records and judicial prbceedings of every other state,
" and the congress may, by generaflaws, prescribe the
", manner in which such acts, records anA proceedings
"shall be proved and. the effect thereof."
'By the actor26th May, 1790, ch. 1i, congressprovided
for the mode of authenticating the recof-ds ad jiidicial
proceedings of the state Courts, and then furtherviJdared that "cthe records and judicial proceedings,, aur
,thenticated as aforesAid, shall, have such faith and
-credit given to themin every Court within the United
"States as they have by law-or usage in th" Courts of

QUPORK.P
,ZTJLL9

COURT U. S.

6 the stato from whence the said,records atre or shall be
It is argued that this act provides only for the admissioil of such records as cvtdence, but does not declare the effect of such evidence when admitted. This
argliraent Cannot be supported, The adt declares that
the record duly authenticated shall have §uch faith and
credit as it has in the state. Court from whence it is
taketn. if in such ,urt it has-the faith and credit of
evidence of the highest naturoi viz. record zdence, it
must have the same faith and credit in every other
Court. Congrcss have thereiore declared the effect of
the record by d6claring what faith and credit sTall be
given to it.
]It remains only then ti Inquite in every case what is
the efftct of a judgment in the state where it is render,ed. In the prestnt case the Defendant had full notice
of the suit, for lie was arrested and gave bail, and it is
beyond all doubt that the judgmenit of the Supreme
Court of New York was conclusive upon the parties in
that state. It must, therebore. be contdusive here also.
'Butit is said that admitting that the judgment is conclusive still nil debet was a good plea, andmil tiere'cord could not be. pleaded, because the record was of
another state and could not be inspected or transmitted
by- certiorari. 'Whatever may be the validity of the
plea of'nil debet after verdict, it cannot be sustained in
this case. Tie pleadings in an action are governed by
the dignity of the instrument on which it is founded.
Ifit be a record, conclusive between the parties, it canpiot be denied but by the plea of nut tiel record, and
When congress gave the effect of a record to the judgment it gave all tle collateral consequences. There is
ino difliculty ih the prdof. It may be proved In the
manner Pi'escribed by the act, and such proof is of as
high a natire as an inspection, by the-Court. ,6f. ifs
own rcord, or as an exemplification 'would be in any
nther Coirt of the same state, ffad-thijudgment beer]
sucd i any other Court of"New tork, there is no
doubt 11at nil debet wduld :have been an inadmissible
pla. Y t the same objection might be urged that the
record could not be inspected. The law howeygr is un-

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.

48S

doubted that an exemplification would in such cdse be
decisive. The original need not be produced.
Anothler objection is that the act cannot have the effeet contended for, because it does not enable the Courts
of another state to issue executionis directly Q the original judgment. This objection, if it were valid, would
equally apply to every oth,.r Court of the same state
where the judgment was rendpred. But it has no
foundation. The right.of a Court to issue executioi
depends upon its own powers and organzation. Its
judgments may be complete and perfect and have full
effect independent of the right to issqe execution.
The last objecti,?p is, that the act does not apply o'o
Courts of this district. The words of the act afford a'
decisive ansyer, for they extend ",to every Court within the United States."
Were tie construction contended for by the Plaintiff'
'in error to prevail, that judgmenj of the. state Courts
ought to be considered prinafacze evidence only, this
clause in the constitution would be utterly unimportant
and illusory The common law would give such judgments precis ly the same effect. It is manifest however
that the constitution contemplated a power in congress
to give a conclusive effe~ct to such judgments. And we
can perceive no rational interpretation of the act of
congress, unless it declares a j!dgment conclusive when
a Court of the particular state where it is rendered
would pronounce the same decision.
On the whole the opinion of a majority of the Courtis that tle judgment be affirmed with costs.
JoHNsoN; -T.
In this case I am unfortunate enough to dissent from
my brethern.
I cannot bring my mind to depart from the cannons
of the common law, especially the law of pleading, without the most urgent necessity. In this case I see none.
A judgment of an ind9perdent uncbnnected jurisdic-

xM=s
T.
.

486

SUPRETE COURT U. S.

tion is what the law calls a foreign judgment, and it is
Damx!
every where acknowledged that nil debet is the proper
T.
iDRYE.u. p'ea to such a judgment. NVul tiet record is the proper
plea only When the judgment derives its origin from the
same source of power with the Court before whith the
action on tle former judgment is-instituted. The former
oncludes to the country, the latter to the Court, and is
triable only by inspection.
If a different decision were ndcessary to give effect
to the Ist section bth article of the constitution, and the
act of 26th May, 1790, 1 should not hesitate to yield to
that necessity. But no such necessity exists; for by
receiving the record of the state Court properly autheriticated as conclusive evidence of the debt, full effect
is given to the constitution and the law. And such appears, from the terms made use of by the legislature, to
have been their idea of the course to be pursued in the
prosecution of the suit upon such a judgment. For
faith and credit are terms strictly applicable to evidence.
I am induced to vary in deciding on this question
from an apprehension that receiving the plea of 7nd twl
recordmay at some future time involve this Court in inextricable. difficulty In the case of Holker and Parker,
which,we had before us this term, we see an instance
in which a judgment for 0 150,000 was given in Pennsylvania upon an attac'?ment levied on a cask of wine
and debt in judgment brought on that judgment in the
state of Massachusetts. Now if in this action nuL tiel
record must necessarily be pleaded, it would be difficult
to find a mctlmd by which the enforcing of such a judgment could be avoided. Instead of promoting then the
object of the constitution- by removing all cause for
state jealousies, nothing could tend more to enforce
them than enforcing such a judgment. There are certain eternal principles of justice which never ought to
be dispensed with, and which Courts of justice never
can dispense with but when compelled by positive statute. One of those is, that jurisdiction cannot be justly
exercised by a state over property not within the reach
of its process, oi over persons not owing them allegiance or not subjected to their jurisdiction by being
f6und within their limits. But if the states are at liberty to pass the most absurd laws on this subject} and we

FEBRUARY TERM

83.

40

admit of a course of pleading which puts it out of our
power to prevent the exe6ution of judgments obtained
under those laws, certainly u effect will be given to
that article of the constitution in direct hostility with
the object of it.

Aiu
o.
DURYEE
---

I will not now undertake to decide, nor does tins case
require it, how far the Courts of the United States
,would be bound to carry into effect such judgments,
but I am unwilling to be precluded, by a technical niceti; from exercising our j udgment at all upon such cases,

OLIVER
TYHE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANYt

i81s.
March

.Absent....WAsHINGToN, J. and TODD, J.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district OfThe longth of
Maryland. The case arose upon a policy, of insurance time a vessd
t-1
Bar- ay
on the snow Comet, "at and from Baltimore to
go,vthoatdis
Baltito
back
Barcelona
"celona, and at and from
"cmore."

charging the

ounderwriters,
,does

not dex

th
end
the"
She arrived at-Barcelona on the 25th of July, •1807, usg~e-of
and after remaining forty days under quarantine, went trade.
daugg.
up to the city where she remained until the 8th of Jan- The
which will-va-s
uary, 1808. She then proceeded to Saloni for the prii- t avet icipal part of her cargo,, which she took in there and remaining m
a.long
Rort withtt~
to Baltimore time,
'
sailed from thence on her returnj. voyage
on the 28th of January, 1808, and was captured by the discharging
undermust
writers,,
British and condemned under, the orders in council ofthe
be obiou, mnthe 7th of November, 1807
mediLate,

di-

ted
At the trial the Defendants insisted oi the delay at re1
of
tho
deviationsruption
as
Salon
at
Barcelona and the stoppinz
Y6 .& ir,which destroved the•o Plaintiff's
" right to recover upon ent, not di}"
the policv. The Plaintiff justified the stopping at Salou tant, eoai-

