STrPREMiE-,COURT. V S.
sHmitAs thereof, and to apply the proceeds of the said sale to tha
Dayment of what remains unsatisfied of their respective
v.
debts, which were either due at the date of the mort.
C41G & gage, or have been since contracted, either on account
MITCHEL. of monWs advanced, or liabilities incurred prior to their
receiving actual notice of the title of the Defendantsi
John Caig, and Robert Mitchel. And the decree of the
Circuit Court for the District of Georgia, so fares-it is
inconsistent with this opiniong is reversed and annulled,
and in all other things is affirmed, and the -cause is re.
manded to the said Circuit Court for the District of
Georgia, that further proceedings may be bad thereio
according to equity
& OTHERS

SCHOONER PAULINA'S CARGO
Feb.

THE UNITED STATES.

15th,

Absent...5Washungton, justice.
The d section
of the act of
congress of the

!808, whaeh

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district ot

Rh

Rhode Island.

The schooner Faulinaand cargo were seized and li-

prohibited the belled by the collector of
trans.shpsisaent
of goods that the cargo was laden

the port of Newport, alleging
on board, within the district of
from one yes- Newport, between the Ist of June and the last of July
;elt, another, in the year 1808, in the night.season, without a permit
did not intilude
the cw. n'a from the collector, and without the inspection of the proper
vessel lading revenue offwers. and contrary to the 2d section -of the
anport
br

Craft,
kc-

46 act

of Congress, entitled c A8n act iu addition to the
is act entitled an act laying an embargo on all ships and

The 9d sect.
6 'vessels in the ports and harbors of the United States and
of the actof
congress o1the " the several atts supplemenlarJthereto, andfor-oterpug.25th of April. " poses," passed the 25th of Apri4 1808, and contrary ta
1808, did not
require a per- the 50th section of the act to regulate the collection ofiditties,

mit to ladiany

tho.izethe
forfeiture and
condemnation
of the vessel or

2d of Jatci,i799. 'Inthe District Courtne vessel and cargo were both ordered to be restored.
c. passed the

Upon the appeal i

cargo, for lad- had

the Circuit Court the Libelant

leave to amend hIs libel, by stating that on the Wa-

FEBRUARY TERM 181
ters of Warwick bay, in the district of Rhode 1sland, at sCHooNEzR
a place called the Fulling M/ill in Warwick, and about PAULiN.'8
120 fathoms from the landing, at sundry times,.between CARGO
V.
the 1st of June and The last of July in the year 1808,
the articles constituting the cargo of the Paulina, were u.sTATEs.
trans-siped from a small sloop called the .May-,flower --ith
outthinto the schooner Paulina, without the intervention,'ofingm
spection of a
landing,
intermediate
any
of
or
craft,
water
other
any
with intent to be transported without the United States, cer the only
contrary to the 3d section of the act of Congress, enti- psenal-tfore
tled " .an act supplementary to the act entitled an act lay- ing the denial
mig an embargo on all ships and -vessels zi the ports and ofa clearance
harbors of the United States," passed on the 9th of January, 1808, whereby the said cargo is forfeited, &c.
The words of the 2d section of the act of 25th of April,
1808, 'vol..9, p. 146, are "That during the continuance of
the act "claying an embargo on all ships and vessels in the
" ports and harbors of the United States, andoftheseveral
"cacts supplementary thereto, no ship or vessel of any
c description whatever, other than those described In
"6the next preceding section, and wherever bound, shall
" receive a clearance, unless the lading shall be made
"chereafter under the inspection of the proper revenue
"officers, -subject ta the same restrictions, regulations,
"penalties and forfeitures;as are pcovided by law for
" the inspection of goods, wares and merchandize im.
6 ported into the United States, upon which duties are
icImposed, any law to the contrary notwithstanding."

By the 50th section of the act of 2d of March, 1799
'vol. 4, p. 360, to regulate the collection of duties, &c.
it is enacted "cthat no goods, wares or merchandize,
6 brought in any ship or vessel from any foreign port
" or place, shall be unladen or delivered from such slnp
"or vessel, within the United States, but in open day.
" that is to say-,between the rising and setting of the
sc sun, except by special-Jicense from the collector of
4 the-port, and naval officer of the same, (where there
i S one) for that purpose, nor at any time without a
d permit from the collector, and naval officer, (if any)
" for such unlading or delivery; and if any goods,
" wares or merchandize shall be unladen or delivered
",from any such ship or vessel, contrary to the direc
il ons aforesaid, or any 0 them Ithe haister" &c.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCHOONER 66shall
PAULMA'S

6.

forfeit and pay, each and severally, the sum of
400 ,dollars for each offence, and shall be disabled

" from holding any office of trust or profit for a term
6 not exceeding seven years," 6 and all goods,
wares
V, STATES. , or
erc_:andize, so unladen or delivered, shall become
'sforfeited, and may he seized by any of the officers of
66 the customs ;" and if the value shall exceed 400 dollars, the vessel, &c. shall be subject to like forfeiture and
seizure.
ca.o
V.

_

13y the 3d section of the act of the 9th of January,
"That if any ship or
66 vessel shall, during the continuance of the act to which
- this is a supplement, depart from any port of the
"6United States without a clearance or permit, or if any
, ship or vessel shall, contrary to the provisions of this
" act or of the act to which this is a sppplement, pro6 ceed to,a foreign port or place, or trade with or put
"q nboard of any other ship or vessel, any goods, 'wares
"or merchandize, of foreign or domestic growth or
,map ufacture, such ships or vessels, goods, 'wares and
wmerchandize, shall be wlwllyforfeited;" " and the mas"ter or commander of such ship or vessel, as well as
" all other persons who shall knowingly be concerned
aGin such prohibitedforeig.n voyage, shall each respective66 ly forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding 20,000 dolSlars/' &c.
i808, (vol. 9, p. i) it isenacted,

The Circuit Court affirmned the sentence of the District Court so far as it decreed the restitution of the
vessel, but reversed it so far as it decreed restitution of
the cargo, wbich the Circuit Court condemned.
To reverse this sentence of condemnation the present
writ of error 'vas sued put by Simeon Jones, the owner
and Claimant of the vessel and cargo.
On the 20th of February, i810, a dedimus was issued
from the Supreme Court to take depositions in Rhode
Island, which was executed and returned on the 11th of
March.
The material facts appearing upon these dpositions
were that the former owners of the Paulina, being prevented by the embargo from using their vessel, in order

FEBRUARY TERM 18i2.
to save expence,, took her into Warwick bay, which sciooxinn
was near the residence of one of the owners. Shortly rIXT.mxn'S
afterwards they sold her to the present Claimant, Jones, CARGO
T,.
who caused her to b puhlicly, and in open day, laden
by means of the sloop May-flower, which was a little u. STATEs.
vessel of 15 tons burthen, whose usual business it was to
carry goods from Providence to Warwick and East
Greenwich. That ho thus caused her to be laden in the
expectation that the embargo would be very shortly
taken off. There was also some evidence tending to
excite suspicion that the intention was to evade the em
bargo.
PITKIN, for the Plaziftif - Error
Neither this vessel nor cargo were liable to forfeitur
under either of the laws mentioned in the libel.
1. As to the 2d section of the act of the 25th of April.
1808, C-vol. 9, p. 146.) It has been uniformly decided
in all the Circuit Courts, that this section does not impose a forfeiture of either the vessel or cargo. In the
present case Judge Cushing condemned the cargo, nor
under this section, butunder the 3d s ction of the act
of the 9th of January, 1808, which .prohibits the trans:
shipment.. The only lenalty for lading the vesselwithout the inspection of a revenue officer, is the refusal of
a clearance. The 2(d section of the act of the 25th of
April does not refer to the 50th section of the collection
law, but to the 53d, 54.th and 55th sections, which apply
to the duties of inspectors, and provide for their due
execution by penalties, but they contain no regulation
whereby either the vessel or cargo can be forfeited.
The construction contended for by the government is
contrary to the spirit of the embargo system. Nothing
had been before said respecting the lading of a vessel.
She might lade as she pleased, and might go to sea upon
giving bond, &c. This act is the first which regulates
the lading.
The object of the embargo was to prevent foreign
voyages. The provision that the lading should be under the inspection of a revenue officer, was intended to
enable the collector to judge from the nature of the car
go whetherit was intended for a foreign voyage. and

SUPREME COTJRT U. S.
sc .-.
OONrR if be should be of that opinion, he was, by the samelaw
AXLEiA's authorised to detain the vesssel until the pleasure of the
CARGO
Presid'mt should be known. The object of the legislav.
ture was completely answered by denying a clearance,
U.STATES. adid thereby preventing the vessel from going to sea, in
---case she had taken m her lading without the inspection
ofa revenue officer. It -was not intended to prevent the
owner from using his vessel as a store-house without a
permit, or from putting goods on board without the inspection of an officer.
That this was the understanding of the legislature
upon the subject is evident from the act of the 9th of
January, 1809, usually called the enforcn.g act, the 2d
section of which (vol. 9, p. 186) requires a permit, and
prohibits the lading of any vessel without one, and without the inspection of a revenue officer, all which would
have been necessary if the law was the same before.
2. As to the- 3d section of the act of the 9th of January, 1808, (vol. 9, p. ii) the supposed violation of
which. is, by the amendment of the libel, made a ground
for the claim of condemnation of the cargo, it does not
apply to a lading or trans-shipment in port.

The oljects of this law were three:
:. To prevent a vessel from departing without a
clearance.
2. To prevent her, after having obtained a clearance,
fiom going to a foreign port; and
3. To prevent her, after clearance, from taking in
goods at sea.

It aoes not contbmplate an act done in port. The
expression "6such prohibited foreig -voyage," shews that
fhe legislature were contemplating foreign voyages only,
and not merely the lading of a vessel in port. There
were many ports in Nvuch a vessel could not be laden
but by the intervention of lighters. It cannot be supposed that the legislature meant to prohibit all lading
at those ports. Trhe act of 25th of April has an express
,exception in favor of all vessels then laden, without re-

FEBRUARY TERM 18i2.
gard to the manner of their lading; so also has the act scHoown',
RAuLINA S
bf the 9th of January, 1809.
CARGO

IV.
Attorneyt of tic United States for the Distrct
U.STATES.
of Pennsylvanmia, contra.
DALLAS,

Penal laws are to be construed according to their
plain intent. No construction -ought to be given which
would defeat the object of the law.
1. As to the claim of forfeiture under the 9d, section
of the act of the 25th of April, 1808, and the 50th section of the collection law.
Let us consider what was the previous law-the mischief intended to be temedied, and the remedy intended
to be applied.
1. As to the previous* law. The first embargo law,
of the 22d of December, ISM', ('vol. 99 p 7_) required
bonds from registered and sea-letter vessels only, conditioned to reland their cargoes in the United States.
The second embargo law, of January 9th, 1808, c-ol.
9, p. 10_) required vessels, licensed for the coasting
trade, to give a similar bond, and those licensed for the
fisheres, or whose employment had been uniformly confined to rrvers, bays and sounds, were to give a general
bond. It also forfeited the vessel and cargo if she departed without a clearance or.permit, or proceeded to a
foreign place, or traded with, or put goods on board
any other vessel, or if (being a .foreign ship) she took
n a cargo.
2. The mischief intended to he remedied, was, that
there was no provision for compelling vessels which
were confined to bays, &c. to take a clearance,. and
give a manifest of their cargoes, and to produce a certificate of relanding them in the United States. Nor
any'provision for inspecting the lading of vessels.
3. The remedy provided by the legislature was, to
prohibit all bay craft, &c. from departing from a district without having obtained a clearance, and deliver9
VOL. VII.

SUPREiE COURT U. S.
,qcHooxrn ing a manifest of their cargoes and to require a cer?iUmN5i's
CARGO

V.
'U.STATES.

tificate of the relanding of the cargo within the bay, &c.
And to prohibit all other vessels from receiving a

clearance, unless the lading should be made under the

inspection of the proper revenue officers, subject to the
samie restrzctions, regulations,penalties andfoifeitures, as
are provided by law for the inspection of goods, -wares
and mnerchandizevimported into the United States, upon
which duties are imposed.
We are thus referred expressly, in a case of lading
for expqrtation, to the rule of a case of importing to unlade.
There is no case of inspection of lading, but for the
benefit of drawback, which is a case of ex-portation and
not tin-portation, and is therefore out of the reference.
The penalties and forfeitures apply to a relanding, or
to not producing a certificate of relandhg, and not to
the lading.
We are therefore to adopt the restrictions, regulations, penalties and forfeitures of the import law, mittatis anutandis.
Under that law, goods must be un-laden in the day
tinle.
Under this, they must be laden in the day time.
Under that, there must 'ea permit to uu-lade.
Under this, there must be a permit to lade.
Under that, the un-lading must be under the inspection of a revenue officer
Under this, the lading must be under the like inspec
tion.
Under that, goods un-laden without vermit, are forfeited.

Under this, they are forfeited if laden without permit

FEBRUARY TERM. i8i2,

If the legislature meant this, it is well, if they did scHoow nx
not, there is no meaning in the sentence; nothing upon rt.u.awA's
which the reference can operate. That this is the true CARGO
v.
construction of the act appears from the provisions
U.STATES.
the
of
act
the
in
inaterza
pan
in
legislature
the
made by
9th of January, 1809, vol. 9, p. 186, where the same
ideas are expressed in different language.
2. As to the claim of forfeiture under the 3d section

of the act of January 9th, 1808.

(ol.

9, p. iO.)

1. Wwt -was the prevwus law? 1. An embargo had
been laid on all American vessels, but no penalty was
inflicted. 2I. Foreign vessels might sail in ballast and
with the goods then on board. 3. Bonds were to be
given by registered and sea-letter vessels only, not to
violate the embargo.

2. What zas the mzschzef to be remedied? 1. American vessels might slip away without clearance or permit. 2. Registered and sea-letter and licensed vessels
might go to foreign places. 3. Or might trade. Or 4..
jmght put goods on board another vessel.
3. What was the reinedy provwded? .1. That licensed
.and fishing vessels should give bond. Z That no vessel should sail without a clearance or permit. 3. That
no vessel should proceed to a foreign place. 4. That
no ship should trade with another; and 5. That no vessel should trans-ship goods, under the penalty of the
forfeiture of the goods.
The fact is not denied that the Paulina took in her
lading without a permit, ana without the inspection of
a revenue officer, and that it was trans-slipped from
the. May-flower.
She is then within the letter of the lawq and we say
she was also within the spirit and meaning.
The circumstances also show that the intention was
to violate the embargo, and the provisions of the law
were intended to punish that intention when it should
be manifested by certain acts.

SUFPREMZ COURT U. S.
SCHOONE
PAU LINA!S
CARGO

v.
u.STATEs.

PXTKIN,

S7 reply.

The words of the 2d section of the act of the 25th of
April arp, 6c slibject to the same restrctions, &c. as are

provided by law for the mnspection, of goods importbd.

If we are to be guided by the grammatical construction
of the sentence, the revenue offcers, being, the last aitecedent, are to be subject to the same restrictions, regulations, penalties and forfeitures, &c. But if the lading'
is to be subject to the restrictions, &c. it is only to be
subject to the restrictions, &c. respecting the znspection,
of goods .imported. We are not referred to the law
respecting the necessity of a permit. And there was
no reason for a permit to lade. The permit was evidence that the duties had been paid or secured, upon
goods imported. But as.there were no duties to be
paid upon goods exported, no such evidence was reqired, and a permit would have been useless.
February 2ist, .fl1 the judges being present,
MARSHALL, CHIEF JUSTICE, delivered the opinion of'

the court as follows:
The libel in this case, as amended in the Circuit
Court for the District of Rhode Island, clauns the
schooner Paulina and her cargo as forfeited under the
Sd section of the &.ct supplementary to the act laying
4n embargo, and under the 2d section of the act in addition to the original embargo act and, its several supphmeuts, and under the 50th section of the act regulating the collection of duties on imposts and tonnage.
In the District Court both vessel and cargo were acquitted, but in the Circuit Court the cargo was condemned.
In construing these laws, it has been truly stated t
be the duty of the court to effect the intention of the
legislature, but this intention is to be searched for in
the words which the legislature has employed to convey it. The legislature has declared its object to be to
'layan embargo on the vessels of the United States,
and to prevent the transportation of any article whatsver from the United States to any foreign port or

FEBRUARY TERAMv iSM.
place, and therefore such transportation is prohibited. scHooNER
To prevent evasions of this law, certain acts which do P UT.INA5S
.ot in themselves amount to a breach of the 'embargq, CARGO
Ti.
but winch may lead tolit, have been successively pro-

hibited under such penalties As the wisdom of Congress

u.STATE.S.

has prescribed. Those acts become criminal and subject the person to such punishment as the law inflits
In ascertauining what they are, the court must searrch
for the intent of the legislature, guided by those rules
which the wisdom of ages has sauctioned.
But should this court conjecture that some otlier aGt,
not expressly forbidden, and winch is in itself the mere
exercise of that power over property which all men
possess, nught also be a preliminary step to a violation
of, the law, and'ought therefore to be punished for the
purpose of effecting the legislative intention, it would
certainly transcend its own duties and powers, and
would create a rule instead of applying one' already
made. It is the province of the legislature to declare,
un explicit terms, how far the citizen shall be restrainqd in the exercise of that power over property which
ownership gives, and it is the province of ttiO court to
apply the rule to the case thus explicitly describednot to -some other case which judges may conlecture to
be equally dangerous.
The fact made out in the present case is this:
The Paulina, a registered vessel, lying in the commoll,
anchorage ground of Warwick bay, in 'the district of
Rhode Island, about two hundred fathoms from. the
shore, received her cargo from the May-flower, a
small vessel, of fifteen tons burthen, accustomed to ply
between Providence and Newport. The lading of the
Paulina was continued in open day for several weeks.
but not under the pspection of a revenue officer. When
lher cargo was nearly on board? she was seized and libelled as having violated the -acts of Chngress which
have been mentioned.
The question. will, it is conceived, be the more clearly understood, if we considevfthe laws in thelorder in
which they were, passed, aid'inquire, first, whether the3d .section of the supplementurt act bag been violated.

-

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
SCoo=ER In pursuing this inquiry, it is essential to examine how
far Jading a vessel under the circumstances of the
Paulina, was prohibited by the original and supplev.
mentary acts without taking into view any subsequent

PAULINA'S
CARGO

U.STATE . act of Congress.

The original act, passed on the 22d of December,
1807, lays an embargo on all vesseIs bound to foreign
ports, and directq that no clearace be furmshed to
such vessel. The 2d section directs that before a registered vessel shall receive a clearance for a port in
the United States, a bond shall be given with a condition that the cargo shall be relanded in some port of
the United States, dangers of the seas excepted.
This act contains no provision applicable to the
lading of any vessel whatever, or to licensed vessels,
nor does it inflict any forfeiture or penalty on vessels
u hich should depart without a clearance.
The incompetency of this act to effect its object
could not be lon- unobserved. It was soon perceived
that foreign trade might be carried on by licensed ves.
sels, and that further regulations respecting, registered
vessels would also be necessary
On th 9th of January, i808, the supplemental act
was passed.
The first sectiondirects that bonds shall be g~ven on
the part of vessels licensed for the coasting trade, conditioned not to proceed to any foreign port or place,
and to reland the cargo in some port of the United
States.
The second section contains a proviso declaring that
it shall be sufficient for the owners of vessels of the description of the Mav-flower, to give bond with a condition not to be employed in auyforeign trade.
This review of the prohibitions contained in the original and supplemenlary embargo acts, was necessary
to a complete understanding of the 3d section of the
supplemental act which is the section supposed by the.
libellants to comprehend the present case

FEBRUARY TERM ism1.

That section is in these words:

SdHOONER
PA ULINA'S

"And be it further enacted, That if any ship or
vessel shall, during the continuance of the act to which

tins is a supplement, depart from any port of the Urnted States without a clearance or permit, or if any ship
or vessel shall, contrary to the provisions of this act,
or of the act to which this act is a supplement, proceed
to a foreign port or place, or trade with or put on
board of any other slip or vessel any goods, wares or
merchandize, of foreign or domestic growth or manufacture, such ships or vessels, goods, wares and merchandize shall be wholly forfeited," &c.
This section contemplates three distinct transactions.
I. A departure from any port of the United States
without a clearance or permit.
2. uontrary to the provisions of the original or sup..
plementaaTy acts to proceed tea foreign port or place,
or,
S. To trade with or put on board any other- ship or
vessel any goods, wares or merchandize.
The offence last described is supposed to have been
rommitted by the Paulina.
Nothing can be more apparent. than that the legislature could not have intended to prohibit any person
from putting a cargo on board a. vessel of any aescription.
i. The coasting trade was still lawful, nd might be
carried on by either registered or licensed vessels, colsequently any vessel might be'laden for that purrise.
2.,There is no direct prohibition to lade a vessel
with' any articles whatever.
3. There are-provisions .mn subsequent, laws on the
same subject which regulate tl "manner of lading vessels m order to entitle them to a-clearance; which proiisions are entirely iicompatible with ihe idea that' all
lading was prahibited.

CARGo
.
U.STATES.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCi0ooNLR
PAULINA'S
.CARGO
T,.
u.STATES.

With a view to this principle the section must bo
construed.
The first inquiry which presents itself to the mind is
this; Do the words " contrary to the provisions of
this act or of the act fo which this act is a supplement,"
limit and restrain both the succeeding members of the
sentence, or only the first of them? Are they applicable only to "proceeding to a foreign port or place,"
or also to "trading with or putting on board any othe&
ship or vessel ny goods, wares or merchandize."

Itthe sentence be construed literally and grammatically, the, introductory words which have been stated,
are attached to all the offences afterwards described.
The departure without a clearance under any circumstances, is an offence. The circumstances of the departure do not affect the case. But to render the facto afterwards enumerated criminal, they must be committed
under circumstances described in the law. "If any
ship or vessel shall, contrary to the provisions of this
'act, or of the act to whimch this is a supplement, ftroceed
to any foreign port or place, or trade.with, or put -,onboard of any other ship or vessel," &c. "such ships or
vessels, gooos, wares, and merchandize, shall be wholly
forfeited." The connection between the different.parts
of this sentence, is inseparable.' There is nothing to
disjoin them. The nominative to the verbs, " proceed,"
" trade with," and "put on board," is the same. It is
not repeated, but is-to be found in the first part of thesentence, and must be taken in the same sense, and with
the same qualifications. The relative "6such," in that
parf of the sentence which infficts the forfeiture, refers
-to the ship or vessel, which contrary to the pi'ovisions,
&c. shall have done any one of the acts described.
If this be the literal construction of the sentence, it is
,still more apparantly its real meaning.
If the-words, " trade withl, or put on board any other
,ship or vessel,' be not liiiited by the words " contra;y
to.t4ze provisions of this act, or of the act to which this
.act, is a s pplement," they would not only prohibit vessel from ladihig, ut-fiom unlading -ina mannei'
which is frequent, aiid'.perfectly innocent. There are

FEBRUARY TERM" 812.

0

inany ports in the United States, whos- -situation re- scHooh-i"
quires that a sea vessel should stop at a considerable PuLiit-'s
distance from the place for which she is destined, and, CARGO
IV.
convey part of her cargq in lighters or river craft, .to
U.STATz.s
to
circumstances,
such
Under
the place of destination.
load or unload, would ampunt to a forfeiture. But such
was not the intention of the legislature.
Most apparently, then, both the letter and the spirit
of the law must be disregarded, or it must be admitted
that the c trading with, or putting on board,"o that is
rendered culpable,-must be such a trading with, or putting on board, as is " contrary to the provisilms" of
the original or supplementary act.
The subsequent words of the section imposmg a penalty of from one to twenty thousand dollars on the offence, tend still further to illustrate and confirm this
construction. They are "cthe master or commander df
such ship or vessel, as well as alL othor persons who
sl'all knowingly be concerned in such prohibited fo.rcgn voyage, shall forfeit and pay," &c.
The master or commander of the "cship or vessel"
described in tins part of the sentence, would seem to
be the master or commandek of any, ship or vessel
which had committed any one of thd offences previously described. If this-be true, it is difficult to resist the
opmnton that the words " as well as .all other pp.rsons
who shall knowingly ,be qoncerned in subli prohibited
foreign voyage" were considered by the legislature as
applicable to all the voyages previously prohibited.
Consequently the legislature, at the time, supposed
themselves to be punishing foreign voyages only.
The Paulina having committed no offence by taking
her cargo on bdMq., unless she incurreil the penalties
of the law by receiving ,it from the May-flower, the
sentence will now- be examined with a view to this
question. Is the employment in this way of a vessel
whose business is confined to the rivers, bays and'
sounds within the jurisdiction of the lYnited States, a
forfeiture of the vessel and cargo?
1o
yOL.-VIL

SUPREME COUR1T U. S.
caooxmt
FAUrINA's

The bond given by such vessel is that she will not
he employed an any foreign trade.

CARGO

"0.
U.STATES.

This exemption from the necessity of relanding the

cargo, proves the intentioir of the legislature that such
craft might be employed in lading vessels. This employment is not contrary to the provisions of either the
original or supplemental act.

If, then, the May-flower had trans-shipped her cargo
in the port in which she was laden, it is apparent that
no part of the law would have been violated.
The section under consideration inflicts forfeiture on
any ship or vessel which shall depart from any port of
the United States' without a clearance or permit.
If by law this would produce a forfeiture of the cargo
.rhenon board the Paulina, it is to be inquired whether#
under this libel, the fact of her having passed out of
one port into another without a clearance or permit,'is
examinable.
The libel charges the simple fact of trans-shipment,
without alleging the only circumstance which could
render such trans-shipment criminal. The question,
then, of a departure from the port of Providence rto
that of Newport is not. brought before the court. it
does indeed appear in the evidence that, in consequence
of an opinion among the revenue offlce's, as well as
others, a clearance in such a case was not requisite-the May-flower carried a considerable part of her
cargo to the Paulina without having obtained permits.
But the court cannot notice this fact unless the prosecution had, in some degree, been founded upon it.
It is, then the opinion of the majority of the court
that, as this case stands, the sentence cannot be sustained under the 3d section of the act of January, 1808.
No opinion is given on the construction of -that act in
a case of trans-shipment from a vessel wich has actually passed from one district to another without a clearance.

The libel also claims.a forfeiture under the 0ths ec

FEBRUARY TERM is1,

.6T

•tion of the .collection law, and under the. 2d section of s5HoZR

tje act commonly called the additional act.

PAUI

lA S

CARGO

v.
It has been very truly observed that the collection
law is in itself totally inapplicable to the case, and can v.sTA-' s.
only be relied on for the purpose of explaining the 2d
section of the additional act which refers to the collection law.
The operative words of the 9d section are cNo ship
or vessel shall receive a clearance unless the lading
shall be made hereafter under the inspection of the proper revenue officers subject to the same restrictiong,
regulations, penalties and forfeitures as are provided
by law for the inspection of goods, wares and merchandize imported into the United States upon which duties
are imposed."
Had the sbntence terminated with the word " officers,"
it is dmitted that, its only operation would have been
lto exclude from a right to a clearance a vessel laden
in a different manner from that which the act prescribes. The doubt grows out of the residue of tho
sentence.
This section does not, in terms, refer to the 5Oth
section of the collection law. Whether, in strict grammatical construction, the adjective - subject" agree
with and refer to the words -lading," "inspection"
or "cofficers," still the ",restrictions, regulations, penalties and forfeitures" which are inflicted, are those
which are provided by law for the inspection of goods,
not those which are provided by'law for unlading them.
The word ivzspection is the governing-word which explains the meaning of the sentence; and the provisions
for the inspection of goods contain restrictions, regulations, penaltiesand forfeitures; but they do not Uffect
the cargo.
It is difficult to read the sentence without being impressed with the opinion that the sole penalty intended
by the legislature was the denial of a clearance. This
il strike any -person as the principal object of the
clause. What follows is expressed with some confusion
and would not seem to constitute the most essential part
of the sentence. It cannot be believed that the legisla-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ocHooqrln ture could intend to inflict so heavy a forfeiture 'under
ZuAi.e's such cloudy and ambiguous terms. The. natural as well
CARGO
as usual course would be to inflict the forfeiture in diV.
rect and substantive terms, not by way of loose unceru.STATEs. tan reference.
But if this section be construed as the Liftellants con-.
strue it, then if the value of 9 400 be put on board a
vessel, not only the goods so put on board, but the vessel itself shall be forfeited. For what purpose, -then,
direct that she shall not receive a clearance? The legislature can scarcely be suspected of making a solemn
regulation which, in terms, forbids its officers to grant
a clearance to a vessel, which-vessel is, by the same
sentence, confiscated.
It is the decided opimon of the 'court, that no forfeiture is incurred under this section of the act.
The majority of the court is of opinion that the sentence of the Circuit Court, condemning the cargo of the
Paulina, is erroneous and ought to be reversed.
The court certified that there was probable cause of
seizure.
The Chief Justice observed that three of .the judges
who hadheard the argument in the present case, and
one who did not hear it, but who had heard the points
argued in another case, concureed in this opinon, and
that the other judges concurred in the result of the
opinon.

JOHNsoN, Justice, observed that he dissented from the
opinion just delivered by the clef justice upon one
ground only
He was of opinion that the trans-shipment, if with
intent to prosecute a foreign voyAge, in ~volation of the
embargo, subjected the goods to forfeiture. But as the
evidence of that intent was doubtful, he was 9f opinion
that the cargo should beacquitted, and two other judges
concurred with him in opmion,
Sentence reversed.

