!W

SUPRE

COURT U.'S.

zuv ?a taken before the arbiters were made partfdtto the
)S'XIts.
V.

Fw.

cause.

There is, some testimony xebpecting some alterca-

tions~or jealousies between Faw and some of the arbi-

ters at a corporation election, but they were too trivial
'to be worthy- of notice, and as they occurred about the
time of the submission, and before the arbiters proceeded on the lusiness, it is supposed that they would have
induced Faw, had he thought them of any importance,
to make some effort to prevent an award.
Upon a view of the whole case, the Court is of opinion that the Plaintiff in the Court below has not show4
sufficient matter'to set aside the judgment at law, and
doth therefore direct that the decree of the Circuit
Court be reversed and annuled.
March 13th--After the decisioi of the cause, C. Lee
for the Defendant m error, cited KyJd on AIwards, to
,show that where the dispute is about land the submission iad award must be by deed.
fAiii
, Ch. J.-That is where the title is in question. Qut here the title was conveyed-the dispute'was
onlyAsto-the prce. The question of title was not submiteth

LivnsvoGoT,
.- Although that point was. not made.
in .the argument, yet it was considered by the Court.

HUGHES .'MOORE.

1812
March

4th.

_"____

Present...,All thejudges..
Ar

iaybetfre
verdict, discontinue a
nount
nuihs

decaration,

and wave the

issuesjomed

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia, sittilg in Alexandria.
This was a special action of assumpsit, brought by
Moore aainst Hughes. The deelaration, after several

'amendments, contained four counts.

FEBRUARY TLAR

, 1812.

01

i. The first count stated, that whereas on the :ith nHvUGu
,of June, 1797, it was agreed between the Plaintiff, and
V.
one Jdhn Darby# by a writing under Metr hands and Mobm
$ea ,fsnow here shown to the Court, in substance as fol- -,lows "whereas COeom X4oore, had located in his own theree;
name, 9922. acres of land in Kentucky, by a treasury A promise, to
a aunt of
warrant -No. 19,100," -, and the said Cleon 'Woore, pay
money as a
hath sold all his rng/t, title and inferest of, and in the "ompen.ation
same, to John Darby, for the consideration of 3001. and t6off
for the
warrants that no person or persons claiming undet. John injury done
s
Tebbs, now deceased, or under- him the STeb
eo
rmsconduct
of
si.d ICleon
'y"'
Moore, shall interrupt hun, the said John Darby, In the Defendaw±
his said claim to the said lands, but-as to all other claims m obItiing
he is to run the risk, and on their aqcount, will never patent
ownpae his
require, that the said Cleon
Moore,
or any
"
- other per-for
land which
, e ought
to
son or persons, shall refund the said 3001. or any parthave patented
thereof, but if there should be as much land secured by the, inthe name of
said location, as will bring two thousand pounds or up- and
in prethe Plaiif;
wards, the said.Jolin Darby, is to pay the said Cleon venting the
Moore 7001. m money, over and above the -said thri6e Plaintif froln
obtaining a .
hundred poluinds, so that he may receive altogether; ofie tent
mihm o
thousand pounds, otherwise the said Cleon Moore is name, andin
only to, have the said consideration -of three hundred eons
of the
Defen&-deration
pounds." At the bottom of which writing, was a re- ant's having
ceipt in these words, "6Received of John, Darby, tle procured the
to sum of three hundred pounds, the full considerafionfor patent
be issued-to
the first mentioned location, in the foregoing agree- himself,,n
acontract.for
inent, o of his right, title, andihterest of, and in
sale of
same-Cleon Moore, and a seal. Aiid whereas on the the
land within
same day, a memorandum in writing, and under th esitttat
seals of the-Plaintiff and the said Darby, was added and inust be m
indorsed on the said agreement as part thereof as. fol- %rItinj.
Oyer of a
lows "eMemorandum-If a patent or patents have al- deed
set forth
ready issued for tile first within mentioned location,,the m the firt
said Moore, doth agree to assign the same, to the with . out doa
in named John Darby, his heirs and assigns , of if not deed part of
issued, that they issue in the name of the said Cleon theorecor
Moore, and he'is to assign them to the said John Dar- other
by, his heirs and assigns; and if in the opinion, of any to
counts, I the
tito respectable men in the neighborhood of the said-.eciaratian.
lands, to be mutually chosen, shall sa?- the said
lands will sell for two thousand poundg, or upwards,
the said John Darby doth bind himself, his heirs and assigns, to pay unto- the said Cleon Moore, Ins executors,
VOL. VIr
2,

SUPREME COURT U9 S.
IgpfiJFEs

V.

administrators and assigns, the sum of seven hundred
pounds, as herein mentioned."

MOOR1E.

.-

"And whereas the said Defendant, afterwards, o the
sth ofOctober,'1799, well knowing tfhe contract and coyenants aforesaid, between the said Cleon Moore and
John Darby, and more especially well knowing, that a
itenit or grant'had not then been issued for the tract
oft 9922 acres, located in the name of the said Cleon
Digoore, and well knowing that the patent for that lind
ought, and coWd only be issued unto' the said Cleon
4[oore, and well knowing that the said Cleon Moore
wag entitled to the sum of 7001. lawful money of irgima, of the value of 2,333 dollars, and 33 cents, provided, in the opinion of any two, respectable men. in the
neighborhood of the said lands, to be mutually chosen,
they should say the said lands would sell for 2,0001. or
upwards, lawful money of Virginia, and whereas the
Defendant, well knowing that the said lands were really
and truly worth, on the day and year If 'Imentioned, a
Jhuch greater sum than 2,0001. and well lniftng that it
would materially injure the Plaintiff in, his contract
aforesaid, and would materially benefit the said John
Dairby and himself, tke said Defendant, he the said Defendant) on the said 5th day of October, &c. assigned
the plat' and certificate of survey, made of the said
9922 acres, and a warrant numbered i9605, m the
name of the Plaintiff, unto himself, the said Defendant,
and the said John'Darby, without any lawful authority,
so to do from the said Cleon Moore, by making and
subscribing the said assignment of the said survey, in
the name of him, the said Cleon Moore, by hin the said
JamesHughes, as attorney in fact, for the said Cleon
Moore, which assignment, imported a desire of him
the said Cleon, that pate-ts might issue in the names of
the said Darby and Hughes, mitending thereby to defraud and injure the said Cleon Moore, and to benefit
hiniself andihe said John Darby, in respect to the premises aforesaid. And whereas the said James Hughes,
by means of -the herein before mentioned assignmeit
had caused and done to the PlaintV/J an injury to the-vaInc of a great sum of money, to wit, the value of 1,000
dollars, which he was disposed to compensate, the sal
Jame#Hughes in consideration thereof, afterwards, viz:
on the 17th of March, 1806, came toan agreementwith

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
thesai dCleon Moore,-whereby the said Cleon Moore, Iw
.ans
promied, that he would quit all claim to the sdid tract of
v.
land, and discharge thq, saul James Hughes of, and con- x6oa.
cerning all damagesfor, and by reason of his actings and
doings, aforesaid, in assigningthe survey in anneraforesaid, and he the said James Hughes, promised to the
sad CleonI oore, that he.would pay ti him the sum of
7401. when be should be thereafter required, andt%
Plaintiffavers,, that he has been always ready to keep,
and has always kept his promise aforesaid, in consideration of which premises, the Defendant became liable
to pay-to.hlm, the said sum of 7.001. &c. and being so Ii.
able,, the Defendant in consideration thereof, under-

took," &c.
2. The second count, stated, that whereas on the 5th
ofOctober, 799, the Plaintiff was owner and proprie-,
tor of a certain plat, and certificate of survey, of 9922
acres of land' in Mason county, in the state of Ken.
tucky, dated the 28th of November, i7Q6, of the value
of 20,009 dollars, and whereas the Deftndaht well knowmg the premises afterwards, viz6-on the 5th of October, i799, without any. lawful authority from the Plaintiff, and with a view to benefit himself, and a certain
John Darby, and to injure the Plaintiff, in this particular, assigned the last xmentioned plat and certificate-of
survey unto him the said Defendant, and the said John
Darby, by subscribing the name of the said Cleon /oorp
by the said James, .ughes, as Attorney in fact, for th'
said Cleon Mobre, and in consequence of the said unau;
thorized assignment, a grant of the said tract of land
was afterwards made to the Defendant, -and the said
Darby, by the Commonwealth of kentucky, styling
them assignees of the Plaintiff. And whereas'the Defendant, by the assignment aforesaid, had caused and done
to the Plaintiff aninjury and loss to the value of a great
sum of money, viz. to the value of ,000 dollktrs, which
he was williog to repair and compensate; in consideraion thereof, the said Defendant afterwards, viz. on the
7th of Mar ch,. 1806, at the county of.Alexandria, &c.
promised to'pay to the Plaintiff, the sum of 700L'lawful
money of Virginia, as compensatonfor the saidinjury and
loss of thw said land assigned as aforesaid.
The said Plaintiff attha same time agreed to the said
torms, and to accept of the said compensation ifull of

SUPREME COURP U; S.
UGIIEs

v.
wooRE.

all rclarms and demandsfor the said land, andforte uury
aforesaid. And the Plaintiff avers, that hehas always
kept his promise aforesaid, ftnd has been at -iltimes
ready and willing 'to do. every thing on his -part to -he
done; andafterwards, viz. (m,&c.aW,&c. offered toperform.
the agreement on his part, and the Defendant then and
there refused to perform, &c. whereby the Defendant
became liable, &c. and being so liable, promised to
pay, &c.
3. The 3d count stated, that whereas the Plaintiff, by
virtue of a certain land warrant issued, &c. on the 26th
of September, 17.83, duly located by entry on the 7th
of December, 1783, and duly executed by actually survey, duly made on the 28th of November, 1796, a plat
and certificate whereof, had been duly made and delivered according to law, was entitled to have a grant
from the rommonwealth of Kentucky, by patent to be
founded on the said survey, and to be completed and
issued to him of9922 acres of land in the county of Mason. &c. bounded, &c.-And whereas the Dlefendant
had on the 5th of October, 1799, (the Plaintiff, being
so entitled to have the land patented to hin aforesaid,
and the Defendant well knowing the premises,) for his
own gain and advantage, and to the great wrong and
damage of the'Plaintiff, without any lawful authority to
4hat
effect from the Plaintiff, and withput his knowledge
or consent, but under color and pretence of being At.torney in fact for the Plaintiff, wrongfully, injuriously
and wilfully made and executed in the name of the Plmn.
tiff, a certain indorsement, in writing,- upon the back of
the said plat and certificate of survey, purporting to be
an assignment by the Plaintiff, of the said plat-and certificate, to one John Darby and the said James Ifughes,
for value received, and purporting to express a. desire
of the Plaintiff, that patents mightfissue in the~rnamesD
and purporting to be subscribed with the name of the
Plaintiff. by the said James Hughes, his Attorney m
fact. And whereas the said James, afterwards, viz., on
the 5th of April, 1800, (the -Plaintiff being entitled to
have the stud land patented to him. as afoilesad) witlh
out any authority to that effect from the Plaintiff; anj
withoutlis knowledge or. consent, by means of the
pretended assignment, and under color of the same, for
him own gain and advantagep zad to the gre t w nn

FEBRUARY TERM im82.

and damage of the,PlaintiT wrongfully, injuriously and IuEGxUs
v.
wilfully caused and- procured the land so located
and surveyed for the Plaintiff as aforesaid, and bounded moolm.
as aforesaid, to be granted by the commonwealth of
Kentucky> to them the said John Darby and'James
'Hughes, by patent, 'earing date, &c. founded on the
said warrant and survey, and on the said pretended assignment of the plat and certificate, and' signed -by
James Garrard, the Governor,-and sealed with the seal
of the said commonwealth of Kentucky, and in all respects, finally completed and issued to them the said
Darby and Hughes, and entered of record in the land
office of Kentucky, aforesaid. And the Pluntiff says,
that the said land was patented to the said Darby and
Hughes, by the procurement and pretences of the said
James as aforesaid, without the Plaintiff's having ever
in any manner authorized, contracted, or consented,
that the same should be patented in the name of any
other person or persons whatsoever, other than himself.-And the Plaintiff produceth here in Court, a copy
of the-said patent, &c.
And whereas, afterwards, on the 13th of Mhrch, 1806,
at Alexandria, &c. a conversation was had, and propositions -for an accord and satisfaction, were movejd between the said James and the Plaintiff, concernin- a
compensationfor the loss and a liquidationof the damages
sustained by the Plaintiff, by reason of the misconduct
and wrong, doing of the said James in the premises, and
of the vesting them, the said Darby and Hughes, with
the legal title to the said land as aforesaid', and it was
then and there agreed by the said James on his part,
m consilderation of the premises, and of the just claims
of the Plaintiff for compensation and damages as aforesaid, that the said James should pay to the Plaintiff ii
satisfaction of the same, 7001. Virginia currency, equal
to 2,333 dollars and. one third of a dollar, currency of
the United States, to be paid.in four equal quarterly instalments, the first in three months, &c. each instalment
to be secured by a bond of the said James, and the
Plaintiff agreed to accept the said 7001. by instalments
as aforesaid, in full satisfaction of his just claims as
aforesaid, and upon the said instalments being secured by the bonds of the said James, as aforesaid, to
release and quit claim to the said James, all the Plaiu-

8UPtAEME COURT U. Snunns tiffs' claims and demands whatsoever9 for compensftion,
10.

iAoonn.

redress, or damages arisingfrom the wrong doing anul
misconduct of the said James, in the premises, andfrom the
"vestingthe said Darby and Hughes with the legal title to
the said'landas aforesaid. The count then states, that
.the Defendant promised to fulfil the agreement on his
part, and the Plaintiff on his part. That the Plaintiff
is, and always was ready and willing to perform his
part, if the Defendant would perform his. That he afterwards required the Defendant to perform his part,
and offered to accept, and would have accepted of the Defendantthe 7001. in instalments as aforesaid, and secured
by bonds- as -aforesaid, in full satisfaction of all the
claims and demands of the Plaintiff for compensation,
redress and damages as aforesaid, and did then and
there offer to perfect and execute, and would have perfected and executed to the said James, a good and suffirqient quit claim and release to him, of all the Plaintiffs
claims and demands fpr compensation, redress or damages, arising from the misconduct and wrong doing of
the said James, in the premises, and from the.vesting of
the said Darby and Hughes, with the legal title to the
said' land as aforesaid, if he, the said James9 would have
secured by his bonds duly executed, the said 7001. &c.
But the Defendant refused to perform his part of the
agreement, &c.
4,. The 4th count stated that whereas, on the Sth of
Oct6ber, 1799, the Defendant without any lawful authority to that effect, but for his own gain and advantage and to the great wrong and damage of the Plaintiff, with intent to prevent the land hereinafter mentioned, from being patented to the Plaintiff, and to cause
and procure the same to be patented to the Defendant
and one John Darhy, wrongfully, injuriously and wilfully made and executed in the name of the Plaintiff, a
certain other indorsement in writing, upon a certain
other plat and certificate of survey duly made for
the Plaintiff, on the 28th of November, 1796, the said
survey having been so made in due execution of a certain other warrant duly issued in favor of the Plainti%,
fiom the land office of Virginia on the 26th of September, 1783, &c. and in pursuance of a location and entry,
'&c. which last mentioned indorsement purported to be
an assignment, &c. from the Plaintiff to the said Jobn.

FEBRUARY. TERM 18Ui.

M,8

Darby and the Defidant, for valu 9 received, &c. -pur- inpuis
V.
porting to be subscribed, &c. And whereas the Defendant bad, on the 5th of April, i800, in further pqr- moofr.°
suance of his said intent to prevent the land frQxn being
patented to the Plaintiff, and to cause it to be-patented
to the said Darby and the D6fendant, wrongfully and
without authority, and tinder color of being attorney in
fact for the Plaintiff, caused the land to be patented to
the said Darby and the Defendant, &c;-and the Plaintiff produceth here a copy of the patent, warrant, survey, &c. &c.-andthe Plaintiff avers, that-he never authorized the Defendant to make the said -assignment,.
and that the Defendant knew he had no such authoiity-that it was made without the Plaintiffs knowledge
or consent-that the Plaintiff was, until the issuing. of
the patent to Darby and the Defendant, entitled to hav"
the land patented to himsel9--by which wrong doin of
the Defendant, The Plaintiff had suffered great wrong
and injury and was entitled to be compensated in damages by the Defendant, and to be indemnified for being
prevented from having the land patented to him, and
for the same being patented to Darby and the Defendant. And .whereas afterwards, on the i3th of March,
1806, a conversation was had and propositions for a
compromise were moved between the Plaintiff and Defendant, touching the compensation and indemilification
of the Plaintiff, and the Defendant then and there agreed.
in consideration of thejust clams of the Plaintiff to be
compensated for the damage and injury arising from
the misconduct of the Defendant in the premises, and i
conszderation of the Defendants having procured a patent
to be issued to him and Darbyfor the land, that the Defendant would pay io the Plaintiff another sum of 7001,
Virginia currency of the 'value, &c. which the Plaintiff
agreed to accept in satisfaction of his just claims to
compensation arising from the causes and consider tions last aforesaid, and the Defendant in consideration of his said agreement, assumed 'and promised to
the Plaintiff that he, the Defendant, would perform his
part of the agreement. And the Plaintiff in considera
tion of tlat promise agreed to accept the 7001. in satisfaction, &c. as aforesaid and upon payment of the same
or upon its being secured to be paid in four instalments.
&c. that he,the PlaintiffW, would quit claim and release
to the Defendant, all the Plaintiffs claims and demand.:

181,UPR)ME

COURT U. S.

xtvUGHs and rights whatsoever to compensation
for-being
To
vented' from -having the land patented to him, andprefor
MOOR,. and on account of the same being
patented to the said Darby and the Defendant-and the Plaintiffsays that
he was
and hath ever since been willing and ready to perform,
&c. and requested the Defendant to perform, &t.
and
ofered to accept, &c. the 700 1, &c. in full satisfaction,
&c. and offered to quit- claim, &c. all the Plaintiffs
claims for compensation, &c. if the Defendant
would
pay, &c. but he refused, &c.
The Defendant, having prayed oyer of the agreewent and' the memorahdum, of which a profert was
in thefirst count, pleaded non assumpsit to that made
and so in like manner to each of, the other coufits couit,
separately; upoir all of which pleas, issues were joined.
2d. The Defendant, (without again praying
;
for further plea to each of the counts, severally,oyer )
said,
that the promise alleged to be made by the Defendant
to the PlaintiT, or any memorandum thereof, was
not
in writing, signed by the Defendant or any other
person by him thereunto lawfully authorizedp and this
he is
ready to verify, &c.
3. The Defendant also without again praying
for further plea to eachi of the counts, severally, oycr,
said,
66 that after making the agrgemert and memorandum
"between the Plaintiff and the said John Darby,
in the
"declaration mentioned, viz. on the 29th of August;
"1799, Alexander D. Orr, and Johni Graham,
" spectable men residing in the fieighborhood two reof the
"lands, in the said agreement mentioned, were mutually
"chosen by the'Plaitiff, and the said John Darby,*to
.,say and determine whether the said lands would
,$ fol- two thousand potuds, or upwards, and the sell
said
"Alexander D. Orr, and John Graham, afterwards,
d viz. on the 29th of August, 1799, did say aid
deter"mine, that the Plaintiff's clazm to a survey of
"acres, in the county of Washington, being the 9922
land
"in the said agreement, and memorandum mentioned,
wbild not sell for, 2bool. Virgima moley, and ttws no
",,sready to verify," &c.
64

FE]§RUARY TFR1. .i8i

lag

*. ,The Defendant also, without again :praymg oyer, IuGums.
pleaded separately to each count, ," that there was not
V.
as much land secured by the said location in the, agree- mooRE.
ment mentioned, as would bring 2,0001. or upwards, and.
this he is re4dy to verify &c. The Plaintiff demurred
generally to the second plea, to all the counts, and to
the3d and 4th pleas, to the 2d, 3d and Ith counts.
1.

To tlxe 3d and Ith pleas to the Ist.count, there -was,
a generdl replication'and issue.
The Cpurt below adjudged all the demurrers infavor of the Plaintiff.
The Plaintiff then entered a 1wli prosequi upon tle first
count othis declaration, and waved all the issues joined
thereop. Upon the issues of non assumpsitto the 2d, 3d
and 4th counts, there was a verdict and judgment for
the Plaintiff.
After the jury had retired to consider of their verdict they returned into Court and requested the Court
to determine whether a verdict for the Plaintiff would
give to the Defendant all the right and interest of the
Plaintiff and his heirs inthe patent of land in the decla,
ration mentioned, and the Court instructed them that if
the Plaintiff should recover a judgment in this case, he
would be thereby barred in equity from setting aside
the patent issued to the Defendant and the said John
Darhy in the declaration ipentioned. To this instruction the Defendant excepted; and brought his writ of
error
Swixu A.-iNC. Simm, for the Plaintiff in, error contended.
:i. That the Plaintiffhad no right to discontinue as to
the first count and wave the issues on that count, without the leave of the Court, or the assent of the Defendant.
2. That the statute offrauds was a g9od bar to every.
count in the declaration, and
S. That if it was not, :the Court erred in instructing
VOL. VI.
25

SUPREME COURT U. SluVGnss

V.

the-jtry that a recovery in this suit would bar the

Plaintiff in equity from setting aside the patent.

M06RE.

I. The Plaintiff had no right to discontinue~as to the
first Count, after issue, Cre. Jac. 35, 316. The oyer being once prayed and grauted, the agreement and memorandum were spread upon the record, aind the Defendant had a~right to avail himself of it in all his pleas.
The Defendant had a right to show that the title of the
Plaintiff to those lands was never worth 2,0001, and
therefore he was never entitled to any thing more than
tie 3001. which Darby had paid him--consequently the
obtaining a patent in the name of Darhy and Hughes,
could be no injury to the Plaintiff; and if the Plaintiff
did promise to pay the 1001. it was a promisewithout
consideration. This was the real substantial defence in
the cause. In order'to entitle the Plaintiff to recover,
he must not only prove that the Defendant did a wrong
action, but that it didr an injury to the Plaintiff. 1.
Bat. Ab. 50. 6. .Aod. ,A.
2. As to the plea of the statute of frauds. By the act
of assembly of Virginia, p. p. 15, which' is like that of
Kentucky, it is enacted that no action shall be brought,
whereby to charge any person upon -any contract. for
the sale of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, unless
tije promse or agreement upon which such action shall
he brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, shall
be in writing, and signed by the pa y to be charged
therewith, or some other person by him 'thereunto lawfully authorized.

The contract set forth in ebch count of the declaration is a contractfor the sale of land. It is a contract
whereby the Plamitiff was to part with all his title to the
land, and it is immaterial whether that title was legal
,or equitable.
The first count states expressly, that the Plaintiff
"prolmised to quit all claim to the tract of land," and the
Defendant promisgd to pay 700 1.
The 2d count also states, th& the Defendant was to
paythe 7001. as compensahon frirthe injury and loss of the
land, and the Plaintiff agreed to accept it 66 m full of all

FEBRTARY TEIM. 1812.

187

claims and demans for the said land and forthe injury
aforesaxd."
The 3d. count slays, that a conversation was had concerning a compensation for the loss, and a liquidation of
the damages, sustained by the Platntijj by reason of the
misconduct and wrongdoing of the Defendant, and of tl&
vesting them, the said Darby and Hughes, with the legal'
title to the said land, and it was agreed sn consideration
of the, premises, that the Defendhnt should pay to the
Plaintiff 7001. in fdll satisfiction of the Plaintiffs claims
as aforesaid; Pnd the Plaintiff agreed, upon such ptLyment being made, to quit claim to the Defendant all the
Plaintiffs claims for compensation, &c. arising from the
wrong Aoig and misconduct of the Defendant in the
premises " andfrom the -vestingthe said Darby and Hughes
i"-with, the legal title to tie said land."
The %mcount. states that the Defendant agreei, iI
consideration of thejust clms of the Plaintiffto be com.
pensated for the danmage and injury aris g from the
misconduct of the Defendant in the premises, and in
consiuerationof the Defendants having procured a patent
to be issued to hiam and Darbyfor 'Ihe land,,that he, the
Defendant, would pay the Plaintiff another sum of
7001, &'.
Thus the quit-claim of the Plaintiffs title to the land
is the consideration of eviry promise in the declaration,
and if the Plaintiff had no title, or if no title was to.pass
from the Plaintiff, by the contract, it was uudum pactum.
3. If this was not a contractfor the sale of the Platntiff's title to the land, a judgment for hn in this suit
could not have barred the Plaintiff from setting aside
time patent in equity. There seems to have been an _aconsistency in the opinions of the Court below. If the
agreement extinguished the Plaintiffs equitable title,
then it was an agreement for the sale of land, and
ought to have been in writing. If it did not extinguish
the Plaintiff's equitable title, then it could not bar him
from setting aside the patent.
JoNus and C. LEE, contra,
This was-a case of naked tort-there is no evidence

1UGnHEs

V.
MOORE.
-

188
zuGnH.s

v.
MzOOR.E.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

of any authority from Moore to Hughes to make this
transfer, but it was (lone by the latter vith a full knowledge that it waq contrary to the Plaintiff's intention. It
was of, itselfan injury to the Plaintiff for which he was
entitled to redress. It was actionable per se.
But suppose that a judgment for the. Plaintiff in this
case should prevent' him from setting aside the patent,
yet it does not follow that it is a case within the statute
of frauds. Contracts executed are not within that statute. If there be a verbal agreement for the sale of land,
and the vendor executes is part of the agreement by
conveying to the purchaser the legal title; which he accepts, and receives the possession and the title papers,
it is not necessary that the vendor should have a promnise in writing from the purchaser, in order to compel
him to pay for it-a Court of Chancery would decree
him to execute the contract.
The Plaintiffs subsequent ratification of the act of the
Defendant, was equivolent to his previous assent. The
ccontract then was executed on the part of Moore. The
Defendant had all his title-and the possession-and the
title papers. No further act was necessary on the part
of the Planif _ff.
Besides,, it does not appear that the contract on the
part of the Plaintiff, if there was any, for the transfer
of his right, Ayas not in writing. If it was necessary
that it should have been in writing, it will, after verdict,
be presumed to have been -so. :. Chifty on pleadings,
d33. 1. Sand. 276 (a._) note 2. 1 East. 400
As to the 6'1li Prosequz--the Plaintiff has a right to
enter it at any time before verdict, and evft after verdict, befove judgment. Sayer on damages, 113. 12,
JAod. 558.
The Defendant could not by oyer of the. agreement
stated in the first count, make that agreement applicable to other counts which do not refer to it. The 3d
and 4th pleas were only applicable to the first count.
It is immaterial whether the Plaintiff actually sustained
damige to the value of 7001. It io sufficient if he sus-

FEBRUARY" TERM, 1.8M2.

189

taihed any damage af all. It is an action for liquida- HuGuis
ted damages, and it is immaterial What was the real inIV.
3ury which the Plaintiff suffered. 7 Vin. 300-Tit aam- mooRp.
ages. -- Jloure -119,o Colmam's case.2.4. Buhrr 2228,
Lowe v. 1'eers.-. Lord Rajpm. 1161.
The Court below was correft in the opinion, that a
.judgnent in this suit would have barred a suit in equity
to set aside -the patent. It was only an agreement for
the extinguishment of an equitable right which need not
be in writing. Ittransfered nothing to the Defendant.*
M.ARcH 7th....JII tlw Judges beingiresent,

MARs ixu , Ch. J. delivered thp opinion of the Court
as follows
Much of the seemnigintricacy of this cause will dis-.
appear, if we extricate the questions made by the pleadings before the Court, from others which might greatly
embarrass and perplex it.
The -declaration contains four counts. T1he first recites an original contract between Cleon Moore and
John Darby, for the sale of certain lands, lying in Kentucky and proceeds to recount in detail those transaction's on which the action was founded. The other
counts state, in different terms, the several assumpsits,
which they allege to have been made.
The Defendants crave oyer of the written contract,
stated in.the first count, and file several pleas to that
0 It isuiqderstood that'the opinion of the Court below was g-ounded'on
the idea that thisease was to be governed by the pnneiples relative to implied
trusts'which are not within the statute of frauds. Darby &..H]ighes having
obtained the legal estate without the assent of the Plantf, were. to be
considered as holdingit in trust to secure to him the payment of7001. in ease
the land should turn out to be worth 20001. This was an smpid.-trustjresulting from the circumstances ofthe case, and- which would cease-to exist
upon payment ot the 7001. Upon the Plaintiff's receiving payment of that
sam, his equitable title would cease. It would not be transferred to the Defendant; but would lie extinguished. lithe 7001. mentioned in the declara,
tion were tobe considered as the compensation for the injury done in deprivin; the Plaintiffof his legal security for 7001. to be paid upon a contingency,
itis evident that that injury could not have exceeded 7001. And whether it
were to be paid ms compensation for that injury,-or as thsum which would.
be due upon the happening of the contingency, it would equally destroy ther
implied trust. And as an implied trust can be raised without writing, so, it
v~a thought, it could bi extinguisbed wthout writing.

SUPREME COURT U. -S.
UGHUES

IV.
MOORE.

count.. They then, without repeating the oyer, file'si-

milar pleas to the remaining counts. After taking issue on some of the pleas, and demurring to others, the
Plaintiff below discontinues his first count:

By the counsel for Hughes, this has been considered
as error. But the Court can perceive no reason for
this opinion. After this discontinuance, the parties are
in precisely the same situation, as if. all the issues both
of law and fact which were joined upon that count, had
been decided in favor of the Defendant below. Such decision could not, in point of law, have affected the rights
of the parties under the issues joined on the remaining
counts, and consquently the discontinuance upon that.
count must* leave those rights unimpaired. 'Whether
this count remain in the declaration, or be stricken out
of it, the right of the Plaintiff in the Circuit Court, to
recover on the other counts, will he precisely the same.
The examination of this right must be conducted on the
same principles as if the declaration had never contain,
ed the first count.
By the Plaintiff in error it is contended, that the oyer,
which was prayed of the written contract alleged in the
first count, spreads that contract on the record, and
makes it a part of all his subsequent pleas. This is
certainly true with reApect to all his subsequent pleas
to that count, but not with respect to his pleas to the
other counts. Different counts allege different contracts, and different assuippsits. It is upon this idea
alone, that a verdict can be rendered for the Plaintiff,
on one count, and for the Defendant on another. Now
-the over of one contract cannot be the oyer of another
contract, and cannot spread upon the record a contract
supposed to be. totally distinct from that which was read.
Tife discontinuance of the first count produces no change
in this -spect, in the condition -of the parties. Had it
remained, it could have had no influence on the other
counts, nor could the pyer of the written contract it
stated have transferred that contract to the other counts.
The second count states, that Uleon moore was owner and proprietor of a plat and certificate of survey for
hp4s lying in Kentucky, for which he was entitled to a
patet from the government 6f that State, and that

FEBRUARY TERM 18i.
James Hughes, without authority, transferred that plat HUGHus
v.
and certificate, in the name of Cleon Moore to John
Darby and the said Hughes, by which wrongful act a mooRE.
patent for the said lanwas issued to the said Darby &
Hughes to the great injury of the said Moore. Thatafterwards the said Hughes promised to pay to the said
Moore, " the sum of seven hundred pounds for the said
injury, and loss of the said land assigned as aforesaid,
the said. Plaintiff at the same time, agreed to .the said
terms, and to accept of the said compensation in full of
all claims and demands for the said and and for the injury aforesaid."
T'o this count, the Defendant pleaded several pleas,
one of which was, that neither the promise nor any. memorandum thereof was made in writing. To this plea
the Plaintiff demurred, and the Cburt sustaifed the demurrer.
'The correctness of this decision depends entirely on
the application of the statute of frauds to the contract
stated in the declaration.
Cleon Moore is averred to' have been the proprietor of
a plat and certificate of survey on which Hughes &
Darby obtained a, patent by using his name without authority. This tortious act did not'divest Moore of his
equitable title. Thi land, in equity, was his. Did he
part with this title by the contract state~im the declaration ? The answer must, m the opinion of the whole
Court, be in the affirmative. "c He agreed to accept of
the said compensation in full of all claims and demands
for the said iqnd, and for-the injury aforesaid. This,
to sell his equitable title to the
.greenment
then, was an
land for the sum -of -seven hundred pounds. The Court
can perceive no-distinction between the sale of landkto
which a man -has only an equitable title, and a-sale,-of
land to which lie has. a legal title. They/are. equal.l
'within the statute.
It is, therefore, the unanimous opinion of this Court,
that the judgment upon the dqinurxer to this plea, ought
to have been ni favor of the, Defendant. below. Th'is
plea being a complete bar to the second count. it.is unnecessaiy to consider the other pleas.

SURMM COURT U. S7
zx.ns
Thethird count states the. title of leon Moore, and
V.
the injury-sustained by him to the same- effect with the
moowg. second count. It then states a conversation between
the parties, "c concerning a compensation -for the loss,.
"sand a liquidation of the damages sustained-by the said
".CleQn, by reason of the misconduct and wrong doing
6 of the said James in the premises, and of the vesting
," them, the said Darby & Hughes, with the legal title to
, the said land as aforesaid, and it was then and there
"1agreed by the said James, on his part, in considerade ion of the premises,-and of the just claims of the said
" Cleon, for.compensation and damages as aforesaid,
"that the said James should pay to the said Cleon, in
i satisfiaction for the same, the sum of 7001." &c. " And
"sthe said Cleon then and there agreed, on. his part, to
" accept of the said seven hundred pounds in full com"6pensation of his just claims as aforesaid," and, upon
the same being secured, &c. to release and quit claim
to the sald James, all his, the said Cleon's, claims and demands whatsoever, -for compensation, redress or danages-arising from the wrong doing and misconduct- of
the said James in the premises, and from the vesting the
said Darby & Hughes, with the legal title to the said
land as aforesaid.
To this counf also, the statute of frauds was pleaded
in bar. The Plaintiff be'low demurred to the plea, and
the Defendant joined in demurrer.
Upon the true construction e the contractstated in this
count, there was some contrariety of opinion among the
judges. It is, however, the opimon, of the majority
that the contract must be understood to import a, sale of
land, -and that the sum of money stipulated to be paid,
was, ii contemplation of the parties, to extinguish the ti;.
te of the said Cleon MAoore.
The conversation was " concerning a compensation
"6for the loss and a liquidation of the damages sustained
"sby the said Cleon," not only " by reason of the mis" conduct of the said Hughes, but also.' hy reason "1of
"5the vesting them, the said Darby & Hughes, with the
"legal title to the said land." ",And it was then
" agreed, in consideratiou of the just claims, of the said
" Cleon, for comensation and damages, that the said

FEBRUARY TERM '12i.

19a

6 James, should pay the said Cleon, in satisfacti6n fo r ssss
- the same, the sum of 70o.' To the majority of the
-.
Court, it seems, that a compensation foi the loss of the moosE;
title to the land must be understood to be a comensatioii -.
for the land itself, and ihat the receipt of this money by.
Cleon Moore, would not only have barred an action for
damages, but a suit iii equityfor the title.
If this opinion be correct, then the contract is substantiallyfor the sale of lanil, and, to be valid, ought to have
been in writing.

On this plea also.the demurrer ought

to have been overruled.

The fotrth count states the injury more in detail, than
is done in either the second or- third counts. It states
the claim of CIwn Moore to be compexisated for the loss
sustained byJiis land being granted without his consent
to Hughes and Darby. A conversation was then held,
and ",propositions -for a compromise were made, touch&
Ing the compensation and indemnification of,.him, the
said Cleon," "cand it was then and there agred by tho
"ssaid James, in consideration of the just claims of the
",said Cleon, to be compensated for the damage and
" njury for the misconduct of the said James in the prec mises, and in consideration of the said James having
"procured and obtained a patent to be conpleted and
" issued to the said James, and the raid John Darby, as
"last aforesaid, for the said land," that he, the said
James, would well and truly pay the said Cleon, one
other sum of 7001. This the " said Cleon agreed to
" accept in satisfaction of his just claims to compensa" tion arising from the- causes and considerations last
"aforesaid."
The compensation here offered and accepted, is.
for
the injury sustained by Cleon Moore, in consequence of
thegrant of his land, by the state of Kentucky, to
Ijughies and Daby. It seems to the Court, that this
compensation was in lieu of the patent itself, and must
have been intended to extinguzsh his right to that patent.
It is difficult to suppose an intention, in this case, to receive a full compensation for the loss of a title, and yet
to retain the right to that title. The majority of the
Court is of opiniont-hat, under the contractas stated in
ths count aloj the,payment of tb' Moey A£gree to be
VOL. V11.
L6

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HuQE- s paid, would have extinmashed the right of Cleon Moore
to, the land in question, and that this CONTRACT likewise
V
jloofE. is subst anlially a contract for the sale of land. The demurrer, therefore, to this plea ought to have been overruled.
It is unnecessary to examine other points wuch were
made in the cause. The .udgment of the Circuit Couift
must be reversed, and judgment rendered for the Flair tiff in error.
"u'.vient reversed.
1812.-___

iar1

5th.

___

BARTON r. PETIT AND BAYARD.

A lllaint.f,
EIUROlI
who has iedared joinly Vi!'g'-nt.
against two

Defendants,
as
beVng
incilto-

Present....SiUl the Judges.
to the Cii'cuit Court for the District of

The transcrip of the record which was sent up, be-

dy, wen in gai oy staimug that ,,Heretofore to wit, at rules held
fat ot v one i the clerk's office of the said Court in the month otr
oA the was
wae- December, in the year i807, Andrew Petit and Andrew
dents

Bayard, by Philip N..Nicholas, gent, their attorney
appeared and filed their certanin bill against Seth Barown action ton mid Thomas Fisher; which bill is in the following
against the words, to wit. United States, fifth Circuit, district of
ty unles.S
unot Virgmma, to wit. Andrew Petit and Andrew Bayar&d,
taken,
2Ahorized
so mec'
citizens and inhabitants of the state of Pennsylvanrna
to
dd by the
rtu
the*merchants and partners. trading under the firm of
return off the
7cocesagainst Petit and Bayard, Plaintiffs, complain of Seth Barton
that
if theparty_
mat al and Thomas Fisher, citizens and mnhabitants of the state
of Virginia re- of Virg-nia, late merchants and partners trading- under
turn
that the
Defe dants in custody,
Deendant
i the firm of Barton and Fisher,
I
he
no ndabita.,t
of a plea that the said Defendants
render unto the
said
of the district Plaiitiffs tile sum of four thousand dollars, also '(e)
of Vigini
thousand and four pounds of tobacco at twelve siriljgv
the suit shaill
abatE as to awl sbx pence the hundred weight, being of the vahte of
meh Defen- tfventy dollars and mniety-two cets, which to the .said
The p1 ..tiffPlaintiffs the said Defendants owe, &c., stating a judg
In Virginia is meilt of the General Court of Maryland.
taken on the
cipl.i;
net abatecnhis

not bound to
declare until
all the
).Po..Tim record then states, that the Defendajit, Seth Bardants.hae ap. ton; having been arrested upon the capias.ad resyondent v=s ordero d
but not
n appearitig
arg
and being
be u called,
cale.
peared,
or ti dft//
m
milt be abated
and
but
it.

