FEBRUARY TERM. iSiS.
fhavej hold, occupy, possess and enjoy the same and w it.E
v.
"ceachand every part thereof, '*ith their hereditanients
- and- appurtenances against the said' Elisha Wallen, WlIMl
6"his heirs and assigns forever.' And it was further
decreed that t6i Defendant, Wallen, should -pay to the
Complainant the sum of 8 593 33 i-3, the value of the
tract of 41,0 acres as found by the jury which had beea
impannelled to ascertain its value,. and .that for fice
purpose of coinpelling payment thereof -the Complainant sliould have execution, which was accordingly issued, and satisfied.
The Complainant afterwards obtained a writ of -hab.
facws, grounded upon the affidavit of the marshmal that
the Defendant refused to deliver possessipn to the Complainant according to the decree.
By virtue- of this writ the Complaiant was put into
possession of the two tracts of 610 acres each, and the
Defendant, Wallen, brought his )vit of error.

JoNns, for the- Plaiut

it error,

*Moved the Court to direct the Court below to- quash
the writ of hb. faczas and to award a writ' of -restitution, upon the ground, as it is understood, that the
Court below, as a Court of equity, could not award
such a writ.
He cited 5 Com.. Dig. Tit. Pleader 3 B. 20, and 9
Vin. ab. &78. (8 -vo. Ed..) Tit, Error, F pl. 3.
There was ifo appearance for the Defendant in error.
The Court made the order agreeably to the motion.

FAIRFA_'S DEVISEE v. HUNTER'S LESSEE.

182.
Feb.

27i.

.Absent....M.u sI5u-L, ct. J. anid WASHINGTON, J.

THIS was a writ of error, to the Court of appeals L04 F1r,
of Virginia in an ction of ejectment involving tile con- at the time

-SUPREME COURT U5 S.
VArMAxs strurtion of the treaties between CGeat Britain "'nd1t
DiavisLB United States, the judgment:,pf the Court of appeals

being agaiist theright claimed tinder those treAties.

T.
.HUNTER'S

'The state of the facts, as settled by the case agreed,.
was as follows
,is death, bad
the absolute
I.The title of the Tatq lord Fairfax to all that entire
pl'op r~y, setzen and ,,s-territory and tract of laud, called the Northern Neck
session of 'lie of Virinia, the nature of his estate in the same as he
waste and un.
apuropinate, inherited it, and the purport of the several clarters and
lands in thegrants from the kings Charles II and James II, under
:Northern
Nor,k t,Vii- which his ancestor held, are agreed -to be truly recited
gITVU
im an act of the' assembly of Virigma, passed in-the
y alien e-y-ari'de Rev. Code, v.ii ch. 3,p. 5] ,for the"
lands in Vk-confirming and better securing the titles to lands inthe
,ua by ee- Northern Neck, held, tinder tle right honorable Thmas
LESSEE.

the sane until
lord Fall'la,

~Fe

&q-

ouad.
comffmon.

Fromn the recitals of the act. it appears that the first
,gant the ur to Ralpli lord -Hoptonand others,being surrendered in
qprrorI ated
lands'n
the order to have, the grant renewed with alterations, the
orthern
earl
wealth of Vir-

ginia cod not

letters patent (I Car. 2.) granting the land in question

of St. Albans and others (partly survivors of, and
title should partly purchasenxs under the first patentees) obtained
havebeenper- new letters patent (2d Car. 2,) for tho same land and
WNeek until its
feeted
by possession;&the
British treaty
of 1794 confinned
title
to thosethelands

inth,devisee
oflordFatrfa

I
aIpurmenances,
and by the same description, but with

additional privileges and reservations, &c.
The estate granted is described to be, -dll that entire
tract, territr,t or parcel of land, situate, 4-c. and bounded
by, and.witl n the heads of the rvers Tappahannock, -c.

together with the rivers themiselves, and all the islands, 4.c.
and all "woods, uderwoods, timber, I'c. nines of gold. and

silver, lead, tin, 4.tc.
and quarries of stone and coat, 4-c. to

have, hold, and esigoy the said tract of land, 4-e. to the.sazj(
[ .atentees] their heirs, and assign§-forever, to their onli
,use and behoof, and to no -other use, intent or irpose

,whatsoever "
There is reserved to the crown, the annual rent of
61. 13s. Id. ,in lieu of all services and ilemands whatsoever ;" also one fifth part of all gold, and one tgnth
part of all silver mines.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.
To the absolute title and seizin in fee, of the land

FA:RFAx,

and its appurtenances, and the beneficial use andenjoy- nvisE
ment of the samep assured to the patentees, as tenants
v.
n capite, by the most direct and abundant terms of con- HUNTEVRS
veyancing, there are superadded, certain collateral LESSE.
powers of baronial dominion, reserving, however, to
the governor, council and assembly of Virginia, the exclkisive authority in all the military concerns of the
granted territory, and the power to impose taxes on
the persons apid p'operty of its inhabitants for the pub"lic and common dkfetice of the colony, as well as 4 general jurisdiction over the patentees, their heirs and assigns, and all other inhabitants of the said territory
In the enumeration of privileges specifically granted
to the .patv-ntees, their heirs and assigns, is, ",free-,
ly and 'without molestation of the kang, to grve, grant, or
by any 'ways or means, sell or alien all and sIngular, the
granted premises, aut every part and parcel thereof, to
any person,or persons being 'willing to contractfor or buy
the samc."
There is also a condition to avoid the grant, as to so
much of the granted premises as should not be possessed, inhabited or planted by the means or procurement
of the patentees, their heirs or assigns, in the space~of
21 years.
The third and last of*the letters patent referred to,
(1Jac. 2.) after reciting a sale and conveyance of the
granted premises by the former patentees, to Thomas
lord Culpeper. c' who was thereby become gole owner and
propretor thereof pi fee simple," proceeds to confirm the
same to lord Culpeper, an fee simple, and to release
him from the said condition, df having the lands inhabited or planted as aforesaid.
The said act of assembly then rccites,'that Thomas
'lord Fairfax, heir at law of lord, Culpeper, had become
",sole proprietor of-the said territory, 'with the ajpurtenanwes, and the above recited letters patent."
By andther act, of assembly, passed in the year 1748,
[Rev. Cod, 'v. I. ch. 4, p. 10] certain grants from the
crown, made while the txach boundaries of the North-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TFAXnvA'S ern Neck were doubtful, for lands which proved to
DE-ViSnE

v.
HUNTEWR'S
LESSEE.,

be

within those boundaries, as then recently settled' and
determined, were, with the express consent of lord Fairfax, confirmed to the grantees, to be held, nevertheless
of hin, and all the rents, services, profits and emoluments, (reserved by such grants) to be paid and performed to him.

In another act of assembly, passed May, 1779, for
establishing a land office, and ascertaining the terms
.and manner of granting waste and unappropriated
lands, there is the following clause, viz.. [vide Chy
Rev, of 1783, ch. 13, s. 6, p. 98] " And that the proprietors of land within this commonwealth, may no
longer be subject to any servile, feudal or precarious
tenure, and to prevent the danger to a free statb from
pei'petual revenue; Be'it enacted, fhat the royal mines,
quit rents, and all other reservations and conditions in
the patents or grants of land from the crown of England, under the former government, shall be, and are
hereby declared null and void, and that all lands, thereby respectively granted, shall be held in absolute and
unconditional property, to all intents, and purposes
whatsoever, in the same manner with the lands hereafter to be granted by the comnionwealth, by virtue of
this act."
2 . As respects the actual exercise of his proprietary
rights by lord Fairfax.

It is agreed that he did, in the year 174,8, open and
conduct, at his. own expense, an office within the Northern Neck, for granting and conveying what lie described and called the -waste and ungranted lands therein, upon certain terms, and accordi.ig to certain rules
by hm, established and published, that ie; did, from
tine tautime, grant parcels of such lands in fee. (the
deeds being registered at his. said office, in books kept
for that purpose, by his own clerks and agents) that ac-cording to the uniform tenor of such grants, he did,
styling himself proprietor of the Northern Neck, &c. in
consideration of a certain composition to hun paid, and
of certain annual rents therein reserved, grant, &c.,
with a clause of re-entry for non-payment of the rent,
&c., that lie also demisedp for lives and terms of years,

FEBRUARY TERM i83
parcel of the same description of lands, also resbrving,,iRFAVx's
annual rents, that h. kept his saia office open for the DEVISEE
purposes aforesaid, from the year 174,8, till his death in
Iv.
December, 1781, dUring the whole of which period, HuNTER'S
and before, he exercised the right of granting, in fee, LEssEE.
and demising or lives and terms of years as aforesaid,
and received and enjoyed the rents annually, as they
accrued, as well under the grants in fee, as under the
leases for lives and years. It is also agreed. that lord
Fairfax died seized of lands in the Northern Neck,
equal to about 300,000 acres, which had been granted
by him in fee, to one T. B. Martin upon the same tbrms
and conditions, and in the same form, as the other
grants in fee before de'scribed, which lands were, soon
after being so granted, reconveyed to lord Fairfax in
fee.
3d. Lord Fairfax being a citizen and inhabitant of
Virginia, died in-the month of December, 1781, and- by
his last will and testament, duly made and published,
devised the whole of Ins lands, &c. called or known by
the name of the Northern Neck of Virginia, in fee to
DennyaFmrfax, (the original Defendant in ejectment)
by the name and description of the reverend Denny
Martin, &c. upon condition of his taking the name and
arms of Fairfax, &c. and it is admitted that he fully
complied-mith the conditions of the devise.
sth. It is agreed that Denny Fairfax, -the devisee,
was a native born Britith subject, and never became a
citizen of the United States, nor any one of them, blt
always resided in England, as well dnrifig the revolutionary war, as from his birth about the year 1750, to
his death, which happened some time between the years
796 and 1803, as appears from the record of the proceedings in the Court of Appeals.
It is also dmitted that lord Fairfax left, ht his dpath,
a nephew named Thomas Bryan Martin, who was always a:-citizen 'of Virginia., being the younger brother
of the said devise, and the second-son of a sister of the
said lord Fairfax, which sister was still living, and
had always been a British subject.
5th. The land Aemanded by this ejectment, being

SUPREME COURT V. S.
'FAIRrAx's agreed to be part and parcel -of the said territory and
DEvisEE tract of land, called the Northern Neck, aijd to. be a
part of that description of lands, within the Northerit
v.
HUNTER'S Neck, called and described by lord Fairfax, as 1-waste
wEs8=.. and ungranted;" and being also agreed never to have
been escheated and seized into the hands of the commonwealth of Virginia, pursuant to certain acts of assezubly concerning escleators, and never to have been
the subject of any inquest of office, was contained and
included in a certain patent. bearingdate the 30th April,
1789, under the hand of the then governor, and the seal
of the commonwealth of Virginia, purporting that the
land In question, is granted by the said commonwealth
unto David fiunter [the 1t ssor of the Plaintiff in ejectment] and his 'heirs forever, by virtue and in consideration of a land office treasurv warrant, issued the 23d
-January, 1788. The said lessor of the Plautiff in
ejectment is, and alwayvs has been a citizen of Virginia,
and in pursuance -of his said patent etered into the
land in question, and was thereof possrssed, prior to
-the institution of the said action of ejectm~ent.
6th. The definitive treaty of peace concluded in the
year 1783, between the United States of America and
Great Britain, and also the several acts of the assembly
of Virginia, concerning the premises, are referred to as
making a part of the case agreed.
Treaties and acts of assembly referred to.
Provzsional articles of peace between Great Britan and
the United States, conctuded 30th Xo'ovember, 1782, Art. 5
and 6.
JJefihitive treaty of peace between the same powers, concluded 3d September, 1783, ,Art.5 and 6.
Treaty of amity, cc. between the same powerg, condluded 19th. ,Xovember, i791, Art. 9.
",5.ft act respectingfiture confiscations." (Oct.

1783.)

"Whereas'it is stipulated, by the. sixth article of the
treaty of peace between th Unit.d States and the king
of Great Britain, that there shall be no future cofifisca-

FEBRUARY TERM 1818-

609

tions made, Be it enacted, That no future confilcations xIraAX'g
shall be mad, any law to the c,,ntraty notwithstand- DEsvwsE
v.
ing, providedi that this act shall not extend to any
U S
RUNT
commenced
was
wfnch
suit, depending in any Court,
LESSEE.
prior to the ratification of the treaty of peace."
,,Jlu act declaring who Shall be deemed citizens of thLq
commonwealth." [.May, 1779, ch. 55, repealed.]
cc du act for sequestering British property," cte,
EOct. 1777, ch. 9. vzd. Chy. Rev. p. 64.1 All the property and estate whatsoever of British subjects 'is, by
this act; sequestered into the hands of commissioners of
sequestration, by them to be preserved, according to
certain regulations, for the purpose of being restored
or otherwise dealt with, according as the king of Great
Britain should act towards the property of citizens of
the commonwealth, in the like circumstances. The pre.
amble declaring that inasmuch as the British sovereign
was not yet known to have set the example of confiscation, c.the publicfaith and the law and usages f nations,'"
required the lije forbcaiance on our part.
,.t-n act, concerinug escheats and ffofeitures froin
British subjeets," fIlay, 1779, ch. i4. via. Chy. Rev.
p. 98 ] After reciting the former act, and that it had
been found that the property, so sequestered, was liable
to be wasted, &c. and that from the advanced price at
which it would then sell, it would be most for the benefit of the former owners, in the event of i s being thereafter restored, or of the public, if not so restored, that
the sale should take place immediately, &c. repeals .so
much of the former act, as wag supposed to have suspended the operation of the laws of escheat and forfeiture, and then declares that all the pro .erty, real and
personal within the commonwealth, beloliging, at the
time of passtng the act, to any British Aubject, "shall be
deemed to be vested in the commonwealth, the lands,
slaves and other real estate by way of escheat, and the
personal estate by f.rfeiture." Tie proceedings on inquests of office, for the purpos.-s of eschieat under this
act, are prescribed. 'The duties of escheaitor are directed to be performed. in the Northern Neck, by the
sheriffi of counties. Section 3 declares who shall he
deemed British subliicts within the meaning of the act.
78
VOL. VIT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAriFAX'S
nuvisnng
v.
HUNTEu'S
iLssEiE.

"first, All persons, subjects of his Britannic Majesty, who, on the 1.9th Apill, 1775, when hostilities coinmenced at Lexington, between the United States of
America, and the other parts of the British empire,
were resident or following their vocations in any part
of the world, other than the said United States, and
have not since, either .entered into public employment
of the said states, or joined the same, and by overt act
adhered to them," &c. &c.
An act w amend the qforegoing, [Oct. 1779, ch. i8,
Id. p. 110,] Directs the modes of proceeding in inquests
of office, traverse of office and monstrans de droit, as
well by British subjects as others.
6, ta act concernig escheators," .[Jlay, 1779, ch. 5,
id. p. 106, Oct. 1785, ch. 63, p. 52. vzd. Rev. Code, v.
I, p. 126,] Directs the appointment of an eseheator for
every county, except the counties in the Northern
Neck, his qualification, duties, &c. proceedings on inquests of office, traverse and montrauns te droit, &c. &c.
prohibits the granting or any lands. seized into the
hands of the commonwealth upon office found, till the
lapse of twelve months after the return of the inquisition and verdict, into the office of the General Court.
if no claim be made within that period, or being made,
shall be found and discussed for the commonwealth, the
clerk of the General Court is, within two months thereafter, to certify the fact to the proper eseheator, who is,
thereupon, to proceed to sell.
w An act to extend the operation qf the fore.oing act,
to the counties of the .Northern Xeck." [1785, ch. 53,
p. 37]

,,.a act to amend and reduce into one, the several
acts for ascertataing certain taxes, establishing a permanent revenue," 4kc. [Oct. 178-2. ch. 8, sec. 24,-de
Chij. TIev. p. 176,] Sequesters, in the hands of persons
holoing lands in the Northern Neck. all quit rents then
diie, until the right of descent shall be more fully ascertain.d, and the general assembly shall makefinat promswn thereon, and all quit r-imts thereafter to become
- due. shall he paid into the pubhlic treasury, under the
operation of the laws of that session, for which quit

FEBRUARY TERM 131S.
cents, the inhabitants of the Northern Neck.shall be exonerated from the futime claim of the proprietor

FAIRFAX'S
DEVIS E.

" S act concerning suireyors." [Oct. 1782, ch. 33,
sec. 3-vide zd. p. 180.] Recites that the death of lord

HUNTER'S

Fairfax may occasion great inconvetoilce to those in-

clined to make entries fbr vacant lnds in the Northern
Neck, provides that all entriev inade with the surveyors of the counties in the Ndrthern Neck, and returned.
to the office formirly Wpt by lord Fairfax. shall be
deemed as good and yalid in law, as those made under
his direction, ntil some mode shall be taken up and
adopted by ene general assembly, concerning the t'rritory ordle Northern Neck.
, Sit act for safe keeping the land-papers of the Alorthert .Neck," [October, 1785, ch. 63, p. 36,] Reciting that
it was customary to keep the records, &c. of lands within the Northern Neck, in the office of the late prolwietor, and that it was necessary that the records on which
the titles to lands depended, should be all kept in one
office, provides for the removal of the same into the
register's office, &c.
Also, provides for issuing grants for survevs, under
entries made in the life or the proprietor, and unier
entries made wili surveyors, pursuant to the act last
above recited, declaring them to be cases till then unprovided for
See. 5. Subje-ts the uuaprroprmatedlands, within the
district of the Northern Neck, to the same regulations,.
and to be granted in the same manner, as is by law directed in cases ofotlier unappropriatedlands belonging
to the commonwealth.
see. 6. Forever thereafter, exonerates land holders,
within the said district, from composition and quit
rents.
"cJ actjdechrzng who shall be deemed citizens of this
commonwealth," [M[ay, 1779, ch. 55. Repealed.]
"cAt act declaring tenants of lands or slaves tin tdille, to
hold the same sn fee simple." [M ay, 1776, ch. 26, -vide
Chy. Rev. p. 45.]

LEssE-E.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
TAIRTAX9S
DEVIsEE.

v.

4ai act to amend the foregoing, [October, 1783, ch. 27,
vide 1l. p. 204,) Lands or slavsj wihich, by virtue of
the fortner act, have, or shall become escheatable to the

HUNTER'S cominonweai
jESSEE.

li, for defect.of blood, shall descend, and

be deemed tb h'ave descended, agreeable to the limitations o the dee. or will creating such estates Provided, this ac-t shall vQt extend to any lands or slaves
escheated and sold for thr mse of the commonwealth.
C. LrE and JoNE.s, on the paif of the Plaintiff in error, conteuae,
Ist. That lord Fairfax was, at his deatlip seized of
an abstilute and unconditional estate of niheriinice in
the w.hole of'that description of land, within the bouuniaries of his letters patent, designated by m as ", waste
and ungs'anted ;" that is to say, in all the lands within
thbse boundaries, except such as had been parcelled out
into tenements, and granted in fee, by himself or his
ancestors, or predecessors, or by his or their consent or
authority , and tat he was in the actual seizin and
possession of the soil, with the like title to the immediate per-ancy and fruition of the profits, and under the.
like sanctions. as ordinary lrprp.(tors in fee, under
grants derived from the crown prior to the revolution.
2d. That the estitte, by virtue of the will of lord Fairfax, vested in Denny Fairfax, the devisee. and has
never been divested out of him. by office found and
seizure, nor by any equivalent made of confiscationikatsoever, and that the treaty of peace found hni
seized of the estate unaltered from the condition in
which it was originally taken under the devise;
3d. That the treaty of peace prohibited the confiscation of the estate, whether by inquest of office, or by
any other mode whatsoever, and so operated a release
and confirmati,:n to the British :proprietor, whose title
was again explicitly acknowledged and confirmed by
the' treaty of 1 79-, wihi h completely removed every in..
capacity and disability that might possibly be supposed
to remain-in him, as a landed proprietor.
4th. Thatthe natent, underwhihi thdDefendantin error
claims the land-'in question, wan not authorized by any

FEBRUARY TERM i8I3.
pro-existing law of Virginia, but was in direct contra- rAIRFAx's
vention of the treaty of peace, and of the statute of DEVI S .
Virginia, enacted expressly in execution of the treaty,
v.
and strictly enjoining the observance of its stipulatibns HU!NTEUR'S
with good faith and, therefore, thesaid patent conveys 1ESSEE.
no title to the Defendant in error.
1. Upon the first point they'relied upon the'expregs
words of the grant., from the crown to the original patentees, and the following cases 2, Wash. 113, Picket
,v. Dowdatl-zd. .10.Johnson v. Binffivgton-id. :25.
Curry 'v. Burns-, Wash. 34, Birch v. ,Alexander-anl
2, Dall. 99, .XICurdy v. Potts.
2. The estate, bv the devise, vested in Denny Fairfax, who continued to hold the same till the treaty of
peace. Although an alien-pnemy, lie could take and
hold until office.found. The law is perfectlysettled
that an alien can take by purchase, although lie cannot take by descent. In this respett there is no differ.
en'e between an alien enemy and avalien friend. He
took a fee simple subject to the right of the so-vereign
to seize it. Co. Lit. 2, (b)-5, Co. 52, .Page's case-9.
Co. 141 (a)-2, Bl. Corn. 293, Powell on,apv. 316-2,
Vent. 270.
It is essential to the Plaintiffs title that the -state
should have vested in Denny Fairfax, for if itdid not,
it could not escheat to the commonwealth under .wloea
the Plaintiff claims.
It is one of the principles of the common law, upon
which the security of private property from the grasp
of power depends, that the crown can take only by matter
of record. 3, BL. Com. 259. Those authorities which
-.ay an alien may take, but cannot holtd, clearly mean
that he cannot hold agamnt the claim of the crown asserted in a legal manner-Co. Lit. 2, a 4-.b. An alien
may suffri- a common recovery-Goldsb.102.4, Leon, 82.
Bro. tit. Denizen and .lien, 17 And it is expressly
laid down that only the tenant of the freehold can suffer a common recovery-3, Bl. Coin. 356-7 But he
could not be tenant of the fi'eehola unless the estate
vested and remained in him-i, Bac. ab. 133. The case
of an alien purchasing and being afterwards made a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ATrZFAX's denizen is -very strong, for in. that case, although the
lands be forfeitable they descend. This could not be
it the estate did not remain in the alien from the time
Iv.
It is also
HRUNTER'S of his purchase till his becomin. a denizen.
LESSEE. laid down that if an alien and a subject purchase jointly,
the estate will survive upon the death of the alien, unless office be found, consequently the estate remained
in the alien until his death. It is expressly decided in
Page's case, 5, Co. 52, that until office found, nothing
vests in the king. .N'ichol's case, 2, Plowden, 481, 486.
2' Vez. 539, Duplessts's case-4, Co. 58, Sadler's case.
DEvISF.

In this case no office was found, nor any equivalent
act done to vest the estate in the commonwealth before
the treaty of peace, of 1783. The only act on the subject passed in 1782, ch. 33, sec. 3-ChaG.xery revrsal, 18M
'This manifests no intention to confiscate. On the contrary by making the entries for lands in the Northern
Neck returnable to the former office of lord Fairrax,
the legislature show a disposition not to molest his title.
The treaty of peace then found the freehold of the
land in Denny Fairfax.
3. That treaty released the forfeiture and no subsequent act of the legislature could affect the title.
The 5th article engages that CDngress shall earnestly
recommend the restoration of confiscated estates, and
the 6th article stipulates that "cno further confiscation
shall be made."
The term "'coifiscation" embraces every case of the
money or estate of an individual, brought'into the treasury in virtue of any forfeiture, and ii this sense it is
generally used in treaties. Cowell Tit. confiscation, 1.
WV BI. 183. 3, Dall.23 . 1, BI. Com. 299.
Lands acquired by an alien are, on that account, liabl' to forfeiture. 1, Bl. Com. 372-2, Bl. Com. 27,1.
Escleat is one mode of confiscation. Confiscation la-i,
f rYrgima, 1779. 2, B1. Com. 213, 9Aio, 252, 272, 293.
The 5th article of the treaty illustrates the 6th. Why
should congress recommend the restoration of confi--

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
cated estates belonging to real British subjects, if they FA.IRFAx'S
were to be immediately taken back upon the plea of D YISE
,.
alienage? If an estate had been thus restored to a British subject unden the 5th article, the 6th would have 11UWTER'S
protected hun in the enjoyment of it, or the 5th would LESSLE.
have been wholly nugatory There was no provision,
in the treaty, to protect restored estates, but the prohibition of future confiscations contained in the 6th artitle.
If in one case the term, coiftscatibu, in that article,
meant confiscation by reason of that alienage which
was the consequence of the part taken in the war, why
not give it the same meanug in all cases of alienage
arising from the same cause ? Denny Fairfax became
an. alien by reason of the part he took i,the war. He
chose to take part with Great Britain, and thereby became an alien, whereby .ns land became liable to confiscation according to the laws of Virginia. Whether
the confiscation was to be mediately or immediately the
consequence of the part taken in the war, was iminaterial. It would have been a ffidure confiscation by
reason of the part taken by him in the war." A'ny
ssequent act of confiscation therefore by the state of
Virginia, would have been void as being contrary to
the express stipulation of the treaty Tlwmas Parker's
Rep. 267, 161, Co. Lit. 2, (b) Hargrave'snote s.
The treaty of 1791, is merely declaratory of the effect
of the treaty of peace.

It makes no new provision.

HAm r.E, contra.

1. As to the nature of lord Fairfax's title to the waste
and unappropriated lands.
This title was not that or a common subject. It was
a grant by the crown, of the same right to dispose of the
lands which the sovereign had. It was a right to grant
the lands to individuals, and to receive the services and
quitrents due therefor. It was not contemplated that
lie himself should occupy the lands. It was a mere
delegation of a part of the suvereign power, and so far
as it was executed by him, it passed, with the other
rights of sovereignty, to the commonwealth of Virginia,
at the time of the revolution.

SUPREME COURT U, S:
SxnRuAx's This %vasthe construction -put upon it by lord Fair. fax himself-for when he intended to appropriate any
,DEvIsE
.T.
part of the lands to his own use, he granted it to a third
nuuTx's person, and then took back the title frbm his own granLESSEE. tee. His deeds were not in the common form, but were
made to resemble those of the crown.
The Defendants in error still contend that there is a
difference between an alien friend and an alien enemy,
as to the right to hold lands. In the latter case an office is not nece.ssary The right and possession aro
-both thrown upon the commonwealth.
3. But the principal question is, what effect had the
treaty of peace upon this devise?
It is said that the proiision, that no future confiscations should be made, removea the disability of alienage.
The itle ofthe comknonwealti of Virginia was complbte before the treaty of peace. Nothing more was
necessary than to 'pursue the legal proceedings to put
,the state into possesswn. The office is no part of the
title. This was complete at the death of lord Fairfax.
It vested eo tastanti in the commonwealth. If it passel
to Denny Fairfax, it was to the use of the commonwealth- But if any title vested in Denny Fairfax, what
kind of title was it? It could not descend from him.
Upon bis death the right and possession were cast upon
the commonwealth. He h~td no beneficial interest. He
was only a tt ustee of an ectate at will-Co. Lit. 2, (b,)
Plowd. 229. An office is only a suit brought bv the
king to establish his title by proof of the facts upon
which his title depends. It is not to grve title, but to
prove the fact of alienage. The office is the remedy,
not the right. It is only the means of gain )ossesou in. Attornment to an alien is an attornment to the
use of the king-Co. Lit. 310, (b.)
He has noA-n alien cannot sell, Co. Lit. 42, (b.)
thing but a nated possession. It is said lie is a good
tenant to the precipe, and may suffer a common recovery, but it is for the use of the king.
The treaty of peace does not protect the title

FEBRUARY TERM 1m81.

Confiqcation does not fiiean the recovery of a debt; FAiRprx:e
or o, any thing to which the state had a right before, DEvisunE
v.
but .t is the assumption of a new right. The creation
of a rht by an act of sovereign power. It is a trans- IIUNT l's
fer, not of property, but of the right of property, from x.nssn..
individual to public use. But here the right existed
before.
If this be not the generdi'meaning of the. word ,, confiscation," it is the meaning of it as used in the treaty
The contracting parties were speaking of the acts of the
state governments wich were intended as punishments
for the part which certain persons had taken in the war.
The estates to be restored were not such as had escheat..
ed by reason of alienage, but such as had beefi confiscated on account of the part taken in the war.
If the title was not protected by the treaty, then upon the death of Denny Fairfax it vested completely in
gie, commonwealth.
The Faurfax title was extinct.
The commonwealth was estopped by its deed from claiming it, .o that the title of Hunter was unquestionable.
As to the 9th article of the treaty of 1794, Denny
Fairfax could continue to hold only what he then held,
and as lie then held. If lie held any thing, it was, at
most, an estate for life, remainder to the commonwealtli
in fee defeasible, durihg his life, by office found. Consequently, at lis death, the commonwealth bad an estate
in fee. The treaty of 1791 was intended to protect
those only who became aliens, by the separation of the
two countries, while they held the estates, and not those
who were aliens when their estates accrued. Ifit'had intended to protect the latter class, it would have protected
estates acquired by descent as well as those acquired by
devise for they are both within thc same reason, yet it
cannot be said that an alien, who, but for his alienag.e,
would have inherited an estate upon a descent cast before 1794, is benefitted by that treaty. It cannot be said
that lie then held the estate of his ancestor which his alienage had prevented from descending upon hin.
M~arch i6th, 1813.

The Court having taken time

since last term to consider this case4
VOL. VI.
0

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FAIRFAX'S
DEvIsEIS
"0.

STORY, J. delivered their opinion as follows, (MAi1sHatiL Ch. J.'and TODD J. bezng absent.)

ituNTER's

The first question is, whether lord Fairfax was proproprietor of, and seized of the soil of the waste and
unappropriated lands in the Northern Neck, by virtue
of the royal grants, 2 Charles, 2 and 4 James 2, or
whether he had mere seignoral rights therein as lord
paramount, disconnected from all interest in the land,
except of sale or alienation.

.EssE ..

The royal charter expressly conveys all that entire
tract, territory, and parcel of land, situate, &c. together with the rivers, islands, woods, timber, &c. mines,
quarries of stone and coal, &c. to the grantees and
their heirs and assigns, to their only.use and behoof,
and to no other use, intent or purpose Whatsoever.
It is difficult to conceive terms more explicit than
these to vest a title and interest in the soil itself. The
land is given, and the exclusive use thereof, and if the
union of the title and the exclusive use do not constitute
the domnnum directun. k utile, the complete and absolute dominion in property, it will not be easy to fix
any which shall constitute such dominion.
The grouid of the objection would seem to have been,
that the royal charter had declared that the grantees
should hold of the kin- as tenants vt capite, and that it
proceeded to declare that the grantees and their heirs
and assigns should have power ", freely and without mo,lestation of the king, to give, grant, or by any ways
' or means sell or alien all and singular the granted
s, premises, and every part and parcel thereof, to any
,, person or persons being willing to contract for and
ii buy the same," which words were to be considered as
restrictive or explanatory of the preceding words of
the charter, and as confining the rights granted to the
mere authority fo sell or alien.
But it is very clear that this clause imposes no restriction or explanation of the general terms of the
grant. As the graitees held as tenants in capite of the
king, they could nt sell or alien without the royal li.
cense. and if they did, it was in ancient strictness an

FEBRUARY TERM i83.
absolute forfeiture of the land.

2 ins. 66 , and after FAIRFAx's
the statute I Edw. 3 ch. 12, though the forfeiture did DEVISEE
not attach, yet a reasonable fine was to be paid to the
v.
king upon the alienation. 2 Ins. 67 Staindf.Prer 27 nuxrn's
2 Bl. Cmn. 72. It was not until ten years after the first LESSEEa.
charter, (12 Ch. 2 ch. %,) that all fines for. alienations
and tenures of the king t capite were abolished, 2 B1.
Com. 77 So that the object of this clause was mamfestly to give the royal assent to alienations without the
claim of any fine tlerefor.
We are therefore satisfied, that by virtue of the
charter and the intermediate grants, lord Fairfax
at ie time of his death, had the absolute property of
the soil of the land in controversy, ana the acts of ownership exercised by him over the whole waste and unappropriated lands, as -,tted in the case, vested in him a
completc scizin and possession thereof. Even if there
had been no acts of ownvrshi) proved, we should have
been of opinion, that as tnere was no adverse possession,
and tne land was waste and unappropriated, the legal
seizin must be, upon principle, considered as passing
with the title.
On this point we have the satisfaction to find, that.
our view of the title of lord Fairfax seems incidentally
confirmed by the opinion of the Court of appeals of VirgM-ma, in Picket -v. Dowdell, 2 Wash. 106. Johnson 'v.
Buffington, 2 Wash. 1±6, and Curry v. Burns, 2 Mash.
121.
The next question is as to the nature and character of
the title which Denny Fairfax took by the will of lord
Fairfax, lie being, at the time of the death of lord Fairfiax, an alien enemy
It is clicar by the common law, that an alien can take
lands by purochase, though not by descent, or in other
words he cannot take by the act of law, but lie may by
the act of the party This principle has been settled in
the year books, and has been uniformly recognized as
sound law from that time. i Hen. -, 26. Us,, Hen. 4,
26. Co. Lilt. 2 b. _Nor is there any distinction, whether
the purchase beby grant or by devise. In either case, the
estate vests in the alien. I'nPw. Dev. 316, 4.c. Parhe.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
:p.iirAx's Rep. 1*.+. Co. Litt. 2 b. not for his own benefit, ut foi
DEIvisEE the benefit of the state, or in the language of the auv.
cent law, the alien has the capacity to take, but nott6
JiUNTER'S hold lands, and they may be seized into the hands of the
LGEsSEE. sovereign.
U1 H. 4, 26. 1,1 H. h, 20. But until the
lands are so seized, the alien has complete dominion over
the same. He is a good tenant of the freehold in aprecipe on a common recovery b Leon 81. Goldsb. i0n.
10 ,Mod.
128. And may canvey the same to a purchaser.
Sheafe v. O'.Neile, 1 Jfass. Rep. 256. Though Co. Litt.
52 b, seems to the contrary, yet it must probably mean
that lie can convey a defeasible estate only, which an
office found will divest. It seems indeed to have been
held, that an alin cannot maintain fi real action for the
recovery of lands. Co.Lit. 129 b. T hel. Dig. ch. 6. Dyer, 2. b. but it does not then follow that he may not de'fend, in a real action, hIs title . the lands against all
persons but the sovereign.
We do not find that in respect to these general rights
and.disabilities, there is any admitted difierene between
alien fi-rnds and alien enemies. During the war, the
property of alien enirms~is subject to confiscation 3ure
bei, and their civil capacity to sue is suspended. Dyer,
2 b. Brandon -v.. esbitt, 6 2'R. 23. 3 Bos. 4- Pul.
113. 5 Rob. 10-. But ,s to capacity to purchase, no
cas.- has been cited in which it has been denied, and in

The .6ttorney Gencral v. Wheeden c Shales, Park. Rep.
267, it was adjudged that a bequest to an alien enemy
was good, and after a peace might be enforced. Indeed
'he common law in these. particlars seems to coincide
with the Jus Gentium. Bynk. quest. Pub. Jur ch. 7 Vat.
lel, b. -2 ch. 8, 6 1, 114. CGrot. lib. 2, ct. 6, § 16.
It has not been attempted to place the title of Denny
Faitrfax upon the ground of nis being an antenatus,born
tinder a common allegiance before the American revolution, and this has been abandoned upon good reason,
for whatever doubts may have been formerly entertained. it is now settled that a British subject born before,
cannot, sice the revolution, take lands by descent in the
united States. 4 (ranch, 321, Dawson's Lessee v. Godfirey.
But it has been argued$ that although D. Fairfax

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
had capacity to take the lands as devisee, yet he took FAiRFAx's
to 'he use of the commonwealth only, and ha(c therefore DEvvIsEE.
Tv.
but a momentary seizin, that in fact he was but a mere
HVU.TER'S'
commonwealth,
the
of
trustee of the estate' at the will
and that by operation of law, immediately upon the death LESSEE.
of the testator, lord Fairfax, the title vested in the
.commonwealth, and left but a mere naked possession in
the devisee.
If we are right in the position, that thc capacity of an
alien enemy does not differ in this respect from an alien
friend, it will not be easy to maintain this argument. It
is incontrovertibly settled upon the fullest authority
that the title acquired by an alien by purchase, is not
divested ilit office found. The principle is founded upon the ground, that as the freehold is in the alien, and
he is tenant to the lord of whom the lands are holden,
it cannot be divested out of him but by some notorioun
act, by which it may appear that the freehold is in another. I Bac. .tbr .Alien C.p. 133. Now an office of entitling is necessary to give this-notoriety, and fix the title in the sovereign. So it was adjudged m Page'scase
5 Co. 22, and has been uniformly recognized. Park.
2Rep
67 Park. 1%4. Hob. !231. Bro. Denzev, pl. 17
Co. Litt. 2. b. And the reason of the difference, why
when an alien dies, the sovereign is seized without office found, is because otherwise the freehold would be in
abeyance, as an alien cannot have any inheritable blood.
Nay even after office found, the king is not adjudged in
possession, unless the possession were then vacant, for
if the possession were then in another the king must
enter or seize by his officer,. before the possession in
deed shall be adjudged in him. i, H. 7, 21. 15 H. 7, 6.
20. Staundf. Prerog. Reg. ch. 18, p. 61. i Co. 58. a.
And if we were to yield to the authority of Staundford.
(Prer Reg. ch. 18, p. 56,) that in the case of alien enemy, the king ",ratione guerrae," might seize without offiee found, yet the same learned authority assures us.
-,that the king must seize in those cases, ere lie can
have ai siterest in the lands, because they be penal towards the party." 4 Co. 58. b. And until the king be
in possession by office found, he cannot grant lands
which are forfeited by alienage. Staundf. Pre. Reg. ch.
18.f. 54'. 'tat. 18 He. 6, ch. 6.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
r.i=iAx's To apply these principles to the present case, Denny
ni3vis.u Fairfax had a complete, though defeasible title, by virV.
tue of the devise, and as the possession was either vaHUN'rTrn's cant or not adverse, of gourse the law united a seizin to
LL sssr
his title in the lands in controversy, and this title
could only be divested by an inquest of office, perfected
by an entry and seizure where the possession was not
vacant. And no grant by the commonwealth, according
to the common law, could be valid, until the title was,
by such means, fixed in the commonwealth. Itis admitted that no entryor s -izure was made by the commonwealth ;;ratione gterrae" during the war. It is also
admitted, that no inquest of office was ever made pursuant, to the acts on this subject at any time. And it
wohll seem therefore to follow, upon common law reas%.ruig, that the grant to. the lessor of the original Plaintiff. by the public patent of 30th April, 1789, issued improvidently and erroneously, and passed nothing. And
if this be true, and there he. no act of Virginia altering
thw common law, it is quite immaterial what is the valh ity of the title of jjie original Defendant as against
tl e commonwealth, for the Plaintiff must recover by
the streuilh of his own title, and not by the weakness
of that of his adversary
But it is contended, 1st, That the common law as to
inquests of-office and seizui e, so far as the same respects
the lands m controversy, is completely dispensed with
by statutes of the commonwealth, so as to niake the
qrant to the original Plaintiff in 1789 complete and perfrct-And secondly, and further, if it be not so, vet as
the devisee died pending the suit, the freehold was thereby cast upon the commonwealth without an inquest, and
thus arises a retroactih e confirmation of the title of the.
origial Plaintiff, of which lie may now avail himself.,As to the first point we will not say that it was not
competent for the legislature, (supposing no treaty in
the wav) by a special act to have. vested the land in the
commonwealth without an inquest of office for the cause
of alienage. But such an effect ought not, upon principles of public policy, to be presumed upon light
grounds, that an inquest of office should be made in
cases of alienage, is a useful and important restraint
upon public proceedings. No part of the United States
seems to have been more aware of its impQrtance, or

FEBRUARY TERM

i1W.

more cautious to guard against its abolition, than the 'AIRF.x'
Courts of Virginia. It prevents individuals from being DEVISEEn
V.
harassed by numerous suits fntroduced by litigious
grantees. It enables the owner to contest the question HUNTER'S
of alienage directly by a traverse of the office. It af- LESSE.
fords an opportunity for the public to know the nature,
the value, and the extent of its acquisitions pro defectu,
hwredis, and above all it operates as a salutary suppression of that corrupt influence which the avarice of speculation might otherwise urge upon the legislature. The
common law, therefore, ought not to be deemed to be
repealed, unless the language of a statute be clear and
explicit for this purpose.
Let us now consider the several acts which have been
referred to in the argument, from which we think it
will abundantly appear that, during the var, the lands
inontroversy were never, by any public law, vested in
the commonwealth. We dismiss, at -once, the act 6f
they are restrun1777, ch. 9, and of 1779, ch. i , ais
ed to estates held by British subjects at the times of'
their respective enactments, and do not extend to eat.ites
subsequently acquired.
The next act is that of 1782, ch. 8, the 24th sec. after
reciting that cc since the death of the late proprietor of
the Northern Neck, there is reason to suppose that the
said proprietorship hath descended upon alien enemies,"
enacts, that persons holding lands in said Neck, shall
retain sequestered in their hands, all quit rents which
were then due, -untilthe right of descent should be more
fidiy ascetained, and that all quit rents, thereafter to
become due, shall be paid into the public treasury, and
the parties exonerated from the future claim of the proprietor. Admitting that this section as to the quit
rents, was equivalent to an inquest of office, it cannot
be extended, by construction, to include the -waste lands
of the proprietor. Neither the words, nor the intention.
of the legislature would authorize such a constructionBut it may well be doubted if, even as to the quit rents,
the provision is not to e consid,-red as a sequestration
*7ure belli, rather than a seizure for alienage-for it proceeds on the ground, that the property ,,"had descended,
not upon aliens, but alien- enemies. So far as the.treaty
of peace might be deemed"material in the case, this distinction wopld deserve consideration,"

SUPREME COURT'U. S.
The next is the act of 1782, cn. 33, which, after re" the.death of lord Fairfax may occasion
T.
great inconveience to those who may incline to make
HUNTER'S entries for vacafit lands in the Northern Neck, proceeds
LEssEs. (see. 3.) to enact, that all entries made with the surveyors, &c. anit returned to the office formerly kept ity lord
Fairfax, shall be held as good and valid as those heretofore made under his direction, 6 until some mode shall
" be taken up and adopted by the General Assembly,
"cconcerning the territory of the Northern Neck." This
act, so far from containing in itself any provision for
vesting all the vacant lands of lord Fairfax in the commonwealth, expressly reserves, to a future time, all deciSions as to the disposal of the territory.-Itsuffers rights
-and titles to be acquired exactly in the same manner,
and with the same conditions, which lord Fairax had
by permanent regulations prescribed in his office.-No
other acts were passed on the subject during the war.
&A1UFAx's

DvEvsER citing that

We are now led to consider the act ofQI78, ch. 4j7wuch has presented some difficulty, if it stand unaffected
by the treaty of peace. The Ith sec. after a recital " that
"6since the death of the late proprietor, no mode hath
" been adopted to enable those who had before Ins
"6death made entries within the said district according
" to an act, &c. (act 1782, ch. 33) to obtain titles to the
" same," enacts that in all cases of such entries, grants
shall be issued by the commonwealth to the parties
in the same manner, as by law is directed in cases of
other unappropriated lands-The 5th sec. then declares
Chat the unappropriated land within 'the Northern Neck
should be subject t.,
the game regulations, and be granted in the same manner, and caveats should be proceeded
upon, tried and determined, as is by law directed, in
cases of other unappropriated lands belonging to the
commonwealth. The 6th sec. extinguishes for the future all quit rents.
The patent of the original Plaintiff issued pursuant
to the 5th sec. of this act.
It has been argued. that the act of 1785 amounts t6 k
legislative appropriation of all the lands in controversy
That it must be considered as completely divesting the
title of Ilen,,v Fairfax for the cause of alienage. and

FEBRUARY TERM isis.
vesting it in the commonwealth-After the. most mature -ATMr'Xi's
reflection, we cannot subscribe to the argument---In acts .EV sEE
of sovereignty so highly.penal, it is against the ordijia- '-.
ry rule to enlarge, by inpplication and inference, the ex- HUN 'J'a o
tent of the language employed. It.vould be to declare LTSSEE
purposes which the legislature have not chosen to avow,
and to create vested estates, when the common law
would pronounce a contrary sentence, and the guardians of the public interests have not expressed an intention to abrogate that-law. If the legislature have proceeded upon the suppositiQn that the lands were already vested in the commonwealth, wa do not perceive
how it helps the case. If the legislature, upon a mistake
of facts, proceed to grant defective titles, we know df
no rule of law which requires a Court to declare, in
penal cases, that to be actually done which ought previously to have been done. Perhaps-as to grants under
the 4th sec. where entries under the act of 1782, ch. 33,
it might not be too much to hold, that such grants conveyed no more thai the title of the commonwealth, exactly inthe same state as the commonweath itself held
it, viz. an inchoate right, to be reduced into possession
and consummated by a suit in the nature, or with the
effect, of an inquest of office. Blut we give no opinion Qn
this point, because the .patent of. the original Plaintiff
manifestly Issued under the succeeding section--and upon -a construction, which we give to- this- section,- it issued improvidently, and passed no title whatever.r-That
construction is, that the unappropriated- lands in the
Northern Neck should be granted inthe samemanner as
the other lands of the. commonwealth, when the title .of
the commonwealth was perfected by possession. It seems
to us difficult to contend, that the legislature meant to
.grant mere titles and rights of entry, of. the commonwealth, to lands in the same manner as it did lands of.
which the commonwealth was in actual possession antd
seizin:-It would be selling suits aul controversies
through the whole country, and enacting a general statute in favor of maintenance, an offence which the
common law has denounced with extraordinary severity.. Consistent therefore with the manifest intention
of the legislature, grants were to issue for'ands in the
'Northern Neck, precisely in the same manner as for
lanls in other parts of the state, and under the-same
So
VOL. VIL

SUPREME- bURT U. 'S.
FAIIRFA'AS limitation, Viz. that the commonwealth Ahould have, at

]DEysEE the time of the grant, a complete title and seizin.
'V.

HUNTER'S We are the more confirmed in this construction by
LESSEE. the act concerning escheators, (act 1779, cli. o5,) which
regulates the manner of proceeding in cases of escheat,
and was by a subsequent act.- (act 1786, ch. 53,) egpressly extended to the counties in the Northern Neck.
This act of 1779 expressly prohibits the granting- of
any lands, seized into the hands of the commonwealth
-uponoffice found, till the lapse of twelve months after the
return of.the inquisition and verdict into the office of the
general Court, and afterwards authorizes the proper escheator to proceed. to sell in case no claim .should he
liled, within that time, and substantiated against the
commonwealth. It is apparent, from this act, that it
was not the intention of the legislature to dispose of
lands, accruing by escheat, in the same manner as
lands to which the commonwealth already possessed a
perfect title. It has not been denied that the regulations of this act were designed to apply as well to titles
accruing upon alienage, (wicr, are not 'in strictness,
escheats,) as upon forfeitures for other causes, and, but
for the act of 1785, cli, 47, we do not peFceive- but that
the vacant lands were, by the devise of lord Fairfax, in
the Nbrthern Neck, would have been completely witbi
the act regulating proceedings upon escheats.
The real fact appears to have been, that the legisla '
lure supposed that the commonwealth were in actual
seizin and possession of the vacant lands of lord Fairfax, either upon the principle that an alien enemy could
not take by devise, or the belief that the acts of 1782,
ch. 8, and ch . 33, had already *estd the property in the
-tommonwealth. In either case it was a mistake which
surely ought not to be prssed to the injury of third perSOILS.

Bti if the construction, wich We have suggested, be
incorreot, we think that, at all events, the title of Hunter, under the grant of .1789, cannot be considered as
more extensive than the title of the commonwealth, vii.
a title indhoate and imperlfect, to be consummated by an
actual entry under an inquest of.office, or its equivalent.
a suit and judgment at lIw by the grantee.

FEBRUARY TERM iss,

627

Tis view of the acts of Virginia, rendeyrs it wholly :ui:FAx's
unnecessary to consider a point, which has been very DEvIs.E
T.
elaborately argued at the bar, whether the 'treaty of
peace, which declares" "-that no future confiscations HiUTx.R'S
shall be made," protects from forfeithre, under the mum- ESSEE.
cipil laws respecting alienage, estates held by British
subjects at the time of the ratification of that treaty.,
For we are well satisfied that tile treaty of 1791 completely protects and confirms the title of Denny Fairfaxz
even admitting that the treaty of peace left im wholly
unprovided for.

The 9th article is in these-words: " It is agreed that
British subjects who now hold lands in the territories,
of the United States, and American citizens who now
hold binds in the dominions of )is majesty, shall continue to hold them according to the nature and tenure
of their respective estates and titles therein, and may
grant, sell or devise the same to whom they please in
like manner as if they were natives, and that neither
they nor their heirs'or assigns shall, so far as-respects
the said lands and the legal remedies incident t!iereto,
be ponsidered as aliens."
Now, we cannot yield to the argument that Denny
Faifax had, no title, bnt a mere naked possession or
trust estate. In our judgment, by virtue of the devise
to lnm, he held a fee simple in his own right. At the
time of the commencement of this suit (in 1791) he was
in complete possession and seizin of the land. That
possession and seizin continued-up 'to and after the treaty of i791, which being the supreme law of tile land.
confirmed the title to him, his heirs and assigls, am!
protected lm from any forfeiture by reason of alienage.
It was once in the power of the commonwealth of Virginia, by an inquest of office ur its equivalent, to have
vested the estate completely in itself or its qrantee
But it has noc so done, and its own inchoate title (and
of course the derivative title, if any, of its. grantee) has
by the operation of the treaty become ineffectual and
vold.
It becomes unnecessary to consider the argument as
to tile effect of the death .fDenny Fairfax pending the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
suit, because admitting it to be correctly applied in ,ei79- completely avoids it. 'Ihe
T.
heirs of Denny Fairfax were made capable w law to
nuNTER'S take from him by descent, and the freehold was not,
therefore, on his death, cast upon the-commonwealth.
BEs.9.E.
r.&=FAx' s

DEVisEz neral, tile treaty of

On the whole, the Court are of opinion that the judg.
ment .fthe Court of appeals of Virginia ought to be
Irversed, and that the judgment of the District Court
of Winchester be affirmed with costs, &c.
JOHNSON,

J.

After the maturest investigation of this case that circum:tanc.'s would permit me to ,ak , I am obliged to
dissent from the opinion of the majority of my brethren.
The material questions are,
1st. Whether an alien can take lands as a devisee,
and if he can,
2d. Whether an inuquest of office was indispensably
necessary to divest hiniof his interest for the benefit of
the state?
3d.-Whether the disability of the devisee was-not creid
by the treaty of peace3 or the treaty of 1794.
-With regard to the treaty of peace it is verylear to
me that, that does not affect the case. The words of the
4th article are, - TLhere shall be no future confiscations
9-made, nor any presecution commenced against any
,,person or persons for or by reason of the part which
"he or they may have taken in the present war."
Now shonld we admit, as has been strongly insisted,
that to escheat is to confiscate, it would'still remain to
show that this was ,;a confiscation on account ,of the
,,part taken by the devisee in the war of the revolu"-tro." But the diability of an alien to hold real
estate is the risilt of a general principle. of.the common
'law, and was in no wise attached to the individual on
account of his conduct in the revolutionary struggle.
The alien who had taken part with this counti'y and

FEBRUARY TERM .18i3.

629

fought the battles of the states, may have been -affected FAT RAxs
by it no less than he who -fought against us, and tile DEVzSB.E
*v.
member of any other community in the. world may as
HUNTE.R'S
subthe
as
application
its
of
object
well have been the
ject of Great Britain. The object evidently was to se- iEssEE.
cure tile individual from legal punishment-not to cure
a legal disability-.existing in him.
With regard to the bearing of the treaty of 1794, on
the interests of the parties, the only difficulty arises
from the vague signification of the words "now holding," made use of in the article which relates to this
subject., But in. conformity with the liberal spirit in
which national contracts ought to be construed, I am
satisfied to consider that treatv as extending to all cases
" of a rightful pussession or legal title defeasible only
" on the ground- of alien disability and existing at the
", date of that treaty"
What then were the rights of the devisee in this case?
and were they in existence at the date of this trvaty'
Wloevfr looks into the learning, on the cap "ityof
an alien to take lands as devisee, will find it involved
in some difficulties. There is no decided case, that I
knriw of, upon the subject. And the opinions of learned
men upon it, when compar'd, will be found to have
been expressed with doubt,'or scarcely reconcileable to
each other. The general rule is, that an alien may
take by purchase, but cannot hold. Yet so fragile or
gimsy is the right lie acquires, that, if tortiously dispossessed, no one contends that hm can-maintain an action
aganist the evictor. To assert that he has a righi, and
yet admit-that he has no remedv, appears to me rather
paradoxical., Yet all admit that the bailiff of the king
cannot enter on an alien purchaser until office foun.d.But where a freehold is cast upon the alien by act of
law, as bydescent, dower, custody, &c. it is admitted
that no inquest of office is necessary to vest the estate
Whetlher
in the-king, and lie may enter immediately
an alien devisee is to be considered as a purclutscr according to the meaning of that term as applied to an
lien, or whether his estate is to be considered as one
of those which are cast on him by operation of law. is
an alternative., either branch of wuch may be. laid hold

SUP'IEME COURT U. S.
of with some confidence. Chief baron Gilbert asserts,
vxis. i without reservation, that a devise to an alien is void.
v.
(Gilbert on devses, p. iL._) But .4(ir Powell maintains
iuNlEiR's that he takes under it aa a purchaser. (Powell on 'Dev.
LussnE.
37 ) In support of Gilbert's opinion it might be urged that a devise takes effect under statute, and in that
view the interest may be said to be cast onthe alien by
operation of law. Yet I have no hesitation in deciding
in favor of the doctrine as laid down by Powell. Not
on the words of lord Hardwick, as quoted from A'mnglt
and & .Pless7s, for the judge there expressly declifies
girng an opinion, but from a reference to the principle upon which the dbctrine is certainly founded.
vAmLFAr 's

The only unexceptionable reason that can be assigned why -an alien can take by deed, though lie cannot
hold, is, That otherwise the proprietor would be restricted in hi's choice of an alienee, or in other words, in his
right of alieiiation. And to declare suwh a conveyance
null and void would be attended with this absurdity,
that the estate would still remain in the alienor in opposition to his own will and contract. It would therefore seem that the law on this subject would be more
satifactorily expressed by asserting that an alien is a
competent party to a contract, so that a conveyance, executed to hum, shall divest the feoffer or donor, in order
that it may'escheat. The tendency of this doctrine to
favor the royal prerogative of escheat, would no doubt
secu'e to it a welcome reception, yet it is not too much
to pronounce it reasonable in the abstract. This reason is 'as applicable to the case of a devise as of. a contract, aid in the technical-application of the terrm purchaser a devisee is included. But it is contended that
the grant to lord Fairfax was a grant or cession of
sovereign power, and as such was assumed by the state
when it declared itself independent. Upon considering,
as well the acts of fhe state, with regard to this property, as the acts of lord Fairfax himself, there is reason
i)o think that both acted under this impression. But to
decide on this question, we must look into the deed of
cession, and upon its construction the decision of this
Court must depend. And here, in every part of it, we
find it divested of the chief attributes of sovereigntynot , power legislative, .judicial or executive given, and
the words such as are adapted to convey an interest,

FEBRUARY TERM isis.,

031

it is FAIRFiAXS
but no jurisdiction. Some few royal prerogatives,
DBVISEE
unquestionably
these
and
conveyed,
expressly
are
true,
V.
inof
assertion
the
upon
state
the
must have accrued to
to UUNTR?'s
remained
soil.
the
in
interest
the
But
dependence.
about .xamssEF.
the grantee. So far, therefore,. I feel no difficulty
intethis
did
But
deviee.
the
of
claim
sustaininx'the
?
1791
of
treaty
the
of
time
rest remain in hun at the

I am of opinion it did not. The interest acquired
under the devise was a mere scintilla,jurzs, and that
scintilla was extinguished by the grant of the state
vesting this tract in the Plaintiff in error. I will not
say what would have been the effect of a more general
grant. But this grant emanated under a law expressly
relating to the lands of lord Fairfak authorizing thom
to be entered, surveyed and granted.
The only objection that can be set up to ie validity
inquest
of this grant is, that it was not preceded by ali
it
of office. And the question then will be, whether
over
rights
its
assert
to
state
the
for
,was not. competent
the alien's property, by any other means than an inquest
of office. I am of opinion that it was. That the mere
executive of the state could not have done. it, I'will
readily-admit, but what was there tQ restrict the supreme legislative power, from dispensing with the, inquest of office? In the case of Smith. and-the state of
Mfaryland, 'this Court sustained a.specific confiscation
of lands under a law of the state, where there was neither conviction nor inquest ot office. And in Great
exBritain, in the case of treason, an inquest'bf office is
3o,
c.
VIII,
H.
33,
statute
the
pressly dispensed with by
indisof
any-thing
nor
mystical,
nothing
is
there
So that
pensable obligation, in this inquest of office. It is, in
of
-'Great Britain, a salutary restraint upon the exercise a
arbitiary power by the crown,,and affords the subject
simpleand decent mode of contesting the claim of Ins
sovereign, but the legislative power of that country
discertainly may assert, and has asserted, the right of
comnot
was
it
why
reason
no
see
I
and
it,
with
pensing
petent for the legislature of the state of Virginia to do
the same.
Several collateral questions have arisen, in this case
on which, as I do not differ materially firmn my bre

SUVREME COURT U. S.
PAIMFAX's thron, 1. will only express my opinion in the briefest
bEvISEF, manner.
ixiuNr.R's

LEssEr.,

I am of opinion that whenever the case, made out in
the pleadings9 does not, in law, sanction the judgment
which has been given upon it, the error sufficiently appears upon the record to bring the case within the XXV
section of thejudiciary act.

ram also of opinion that whenever a case is brought
up to this Court under that section, the title of the parties litigant must necessarily be enqired into, and that
such an enquiry must, in the nature of, things, precede
the consideration how far the law, treaty, and soforth, is
applicable to it, otherwise an appeal to this Court
would be worse than nugatory
And that n ejectinent at least, if n6t in every possible
case, the decision of this Court must conlorm to the
state of rights of the parties at the time of its own judgment. so that a reatr, although ratified subsequent to
the deciion of the Court appealed frofti, b:'comes a part
of the law. of the case and must control our decision.

