FEBRtARY TERM

si.

In the present case it may be true that Kitty Hunter 3I STLwas a feme covert'at the time when the action accrued, LER &
and yet it may be equally true that five years have
v.
elapsed since the disalility was removed. It was there- MCCLEA .
fore incumbent on the Plaintifs, not barely to shew a
coverture, but, by a proper averment, to shew its continuance to a time within which it would have been a
perfect avoidance of the bar. The objection then would
have been fatal in a several action brought by Kitty
Hunter.
But it is said that though the replication be bad as
to one of the Plaintiffs, yet it can only bar her- that
the infancy or coverture of the other Plaintiffs entitles
them to a recovery in thns action for the injury done to
them, and that, as parceners and tenants in common
are compellable to join in actions of this nature, it
would be hard to affect them with the disability of a
co-tenant.
It seems, however, to be a settled rule that all the
Plaintiffs in a 'iuit must be competent to sue, otherwise
the action cannot be supported and the case of Perry
o. Jackson, citedfrom 1, Term Reports, 5169 decides that
a plea of the statute-of limitations, which is gdod as to
one partner, bars them both in a joint action. When
once the statute runs against one of two parties eiititled
to a joint action, it operates as a bar to such joint action.
It is therefore the opinion of the Court that as this
answer to the objection fails, the replication must be
adjudged insufficient, and of course the bar must prevail.
Judgment affirmed.

WELCH -o. LINDO.

M2
March.

W.

Present.....qll the -Audges.
ERRR to the Circifit Court'for the District Of The mere
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.
pro sso- of 3

WELr~crH

1o0
SUPREME COURT U. S.
Welch brought an action of assumpsit against Lndo,

T*

.upon his indorsement of a promisory note. The declaration contained two counts. The ist count stated,
that one John*Kercheal, on the 25thf of August, 1796,
promisory
made and delivered a promisory noteto Lindo, payable to
note by an m- his order on demand, for 246 dollars, for valued reddrsee, who
hadindored CCIved. That Lmdo, rn the 24th of January, 180o9 -nit to another, dorsed it to Welch (the Plaintiff,) in these words, viz
LINo.
__

xnot sufflcient ,r
evidence of his cPy the wvithin to James Welch, or order, -without any
right ofaction "-recourse -whatever on-. Lindo." That on the 30th
gainst his in- f April 1800, Welch assignedthe note to a certain TVinn~t
sind
vec
dorser, with- of Ap.9S0

liam ffodgsett, by writing on the back thereof, the following words, viz - assign the -within to WFilliam
IHodgsetttand signed his name thereto, and delivered
see.
An
mit
to Hodgsett. That Kercheval failed to pay the modorsement
Onsnthout re- ney to Hodgsett on demand, whereupon, Hodgsett, as
course," is not asSIgnee of the note, brought suit against Kercheval,
evidence of
the makdr.thereof, in the Circuit Court of Woodford
money had
and received County, in the State of Kentucky, in which suit Kerby the indor- cheval, pleaded that he had paid the debt to Lizdo , upon
ser to the us
cftheindor- which plea, issue was joined, and the jury found a geSeet
neral verdict thereupon, for the Defendant, Kercheval,
upon which the Court rendered a judgment, %ihichstill
r':mnns in full force, by reason of which premises the
(Plaintiff, Welch,) became liable to pay to Hodgsett the
16 dollars, with interest, from the time the suit was
brought, (viz the lith .of June, isos,) until the 2d of
November, 1801, the time when *he paid the same to
Hodgsett. and the costs of that suit, amounting to i
dollars and 72 cents, and did pay the same; of all
wnch premises, the Defendant had notice, and by reason
where6f, he became liable to pay the said %6 dollars,
with interest on the sam.e, and the said i dollars and 72
cents, being the costs as aforesaid, and being so liable,
the Defendant, in consideration thereof, afterwards, &c.
undertook, &c. to pay the same sum to the Plaintiff, &c.
out a re-as-

signment or
reclpt from

The 2d Count was for money had and received.to the
Plaintiffs use
Upon the issue of non assnmpsit, there was a verdict in
the Court below, for the Plamtifr, on the first count, and
for the Defendant, on the secbnd count, but the judgment on the first count was arrested, andjudgment was
entered for the Defendant.

ABI114ARY TBTUM 1812.

-

~

Upon the trial, the Plaintiff took a bill of exceptioins

WP4. -it

T'.
Which statedi that he offered in evidence, a duly authenticated copy of the record of the Circuit Court of Wood- XINDO.
ford county, in the suit of Hodgsett against Kercheval, which was inserted in the bill of exceptions, and
produced the originarpromsory note, with its indorsements, aid proved the hand writing of the Defendant,
Lindo, to his indorsement, and offered no otherevidence,
whereupon the Defendant's counsel, prayed the Court to
instruct the jury, that the evidence so offered and produced, is not of itself competent to enable the Plaintiff to
retain his action, and the Court decided, that it was
not tompetezit to enable the Plaintiff to recover upon the
second count, but the judges were divided in opinions,
whether the same was competent to support the first
count, and therefore refused to give the instruction as
prayed. To the opinion, that the evidence waS not competent to support the action upon the count for money
had and received, the Plaintiffexcepted.

The motion in arrest of judgment, was grouhded upon
the general insufficiency of the first count.
E. I. LUz,for Platntiff m Rrror.
1st. There was sufficient evidence przma factej to support the count, for money had and received.
The indorsement of the note, was evidencb of money
had and received, and the record shewed, that the consideration for which it was received had, failed .And
where a man pays money'klpon a conMideration whih
fails, he may recover it back by the action' for .mbfly
W. 690$
bad and receivei.--L Esp. X. P. a 4.r,
Chitty 190, 123, .12A, i25.--S. Crandh','B8.,fr.
1226.- i. Johnson, 590, Gren v. Hart.,- . ohwq'np2
Russel v. Bag,--2. Burr, 1005, 1008, 1010, 101i,
2 The first count sliews ;t good cause of action. -7t.
was not necessary to aver fraud ;.--but if it wasthew.it
•ofsugh 4n averment is cured by the verdict j$or a verdiet
4Ips every thing .wh-vicl.is necessary to he proved upon
the trial, and without proof of which, no-veridkt ought
to 'have -been givenfor the Plaintiff. Cartl , 389..i.
10. .Mod. 300.-2. )NIn. ab. 396. (W a.) and (W bO)

VOL VIL

W2

SUPr&IME COURT U. S.
W'G.cH

SwAN & Jo-ns, contra.

IV.
11WDo.

,.

I., The eViiknce was insufficirnt even if it had been a
--- common indorsement.-The, note having been, assigped
by the Pauntiff, to Hodgsett, it did not appear but that
the right of actign was still in the latter-but Lindo,
having expregsly stipulated in ns indorsement, that he
would not be lidble, o-minot be made liable by an implied
issumpsit.

2. The first count was bad because, ist. it did not
aver any consideration for the indorsemefit-2d. The
Defendant expressly excluded his liability.-3d. No
fraud. is 'averred-and 4th, the~e was no averment of a
re-assignment of the note.
E,

1,

Em,

ti reply.

The possession of the notb by the Plaintiff, was evidence, that he had re-paid the money to Hodgsett.-A
:re:assig muent of the note would have made Welch a
reknofeassignee, and he could not have maintained a
suit at law against Lindo. Lindo, by implication, warranted that the money was due from Kercheval, as
every vendor warrants his title. The record between
Hodgsett and Kercheval shows fraud in Lindo.
March 9th....Jll
8f1s judges being In.esent,
MARSHAL

le Court.

h. J. Delivered the.following opinion, of

This was an:action brought by the Plaintiff against
Vie Defendant, in the Circuit Court for .the county of
Aexandrau The declaration contained two counts.
The first was- special, and the seQnd for money had
and receiVed, by the Defendant to the Plaintiff's use.
At the~rial of the cause, the Plaintiff gave. in evidence, the record of the proceedings in a Court in the
state of -Kentucky, in a cause in which William Hodgsett-.assignee -of James Welch, who was assignee of,

Abr~iatn Lindov"as Planitiff, .and John Kerchevat wa~
Defebdant6 This suit was, instituted on -a promisoqr

nate&. The. Defendant pleaded paymenwo" Lmdoe 1"

FEBRUARY TERM ismS.

sue was joined on this plea, and a verdict was fount wELCH
v.
for the Defendant. The Plaintiff, also-produced the
original note with, the mdorseinents thereon, the last of LMnDo.
-which was an assignment made'by. humto-Hodgsett.
On the prayer of the Defendant, the Court decided
that ths evidence wa not, in itself, sufficient to supportthe action on the second count, ,and to this opnion' the.
counsel for the Plauititf excepted.
The festimony offlered by the Plaintiff, was certainly
incompetent of.itself o prove that the Defendant had
received money tQ his use. The mere possession .of a
note which fie had asmsgned-to another could-not, while
that assignment remained, be evidence that the note was
his.property. Sbme re-assignment or recelitfrom the
last assignee was necessary while the indorsements remaied to prove that the title against the prior indorser
was in hin, and that-he had paid a sum of money
wjitch gave him a claim on that indorser. And if the
record of the state of Kentucky could prove that Lmdo
had'xeceived the money due upon'the yiotz:it-would not
prove that he had ieceived it to the use of the Plaintiff.
Nor, under.this indorsement, which is an assignment.of
the note without expressmg value received, and that,
too, without recourse against the assignor, can it be
fairly inferred that the nominal value of the noto was
actually paid.
T~here thej, no -error in the direction given by-the
Cirruit. Court.
On the -firstcount, there-was a-vefdict for the Plant.
tilf 'butjudgmenfwas-arrested, because that count was
insufficient in law.
This count' states, that. a promisory note was made
-by- John Kerchevali payable to Abraham Linda-that
indo.indorsed thiat-.note to the Plaintiff, in thnse words,
" pay the vithin .to James Welch, or order, without any
recoure Whatever on A. Lindo.1-That the Plaintiff in.
dorsa. -the /9said note to William Hodgsettho-instiasuit thereon, i Whichthe said Kerchevial-pleadtutee, that helhad:paid the debt. to Abrahin Lmdo. A
vexdict )vw found for. the Defendaer, on which ajudg-.

Vzt£ft 0nfit -w- retidered, which remains n full force, 'B

1b.
these proceeduings, the Plaintiff became liable topay the
4nitwo said flodgsett the amount ot the said note and costs of
=
, suit whih he had actually paid. The declaratioA then
proceeds to state, that, by reason of the prenuses, the
Defendant, Abraham Lindi, -became liable t pay tei
hluntiff, tl~e amount of the said note and costs of suit,
and, being so liable, he assumed, &c.

Under the mere assignment from &indo to Welch, it
is clear, that this suit i. not sustainable; because it is a
part ofthe contract, that Luido shall nd be liabktiuld'
his zndorsemeht. The count is also defective, In tid
dtating that the indorsement was made or Vvluabla
consideration, and also in not averring that Liidd ht
actually Irecerved the money for which the note wai
given.
lT'hese are substantial faults, which are not- eurdd T4
a rerdict. The declaration presents a cae in w R&
ther¢tvaa no liability on the part of the Defendant, Id
the Plintiff, which can sustain the assumpsit found by
the verdict.
.There ip no error, and the judgment is alirTned;

T9Z STATE OF NEW JERSEY v. WILSON.

021

ieginctive

At,dechhng
fa
ai
.. s hich
cert

n

should belur.
chased for the

lndian,, shciuld
not, thereaf4

er, be subject

go any tax,
constuteda
'Contrda,

'.HTES case was submitted t this Courto upon C
statement of facts, without argument.
March 3d....ll the Judges being present,

~sij -s-, Chl utc
usic,
.
delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows

This w a writ of error to a. judgment rendered ift
the
Court of last resort in the state of New Jersey, Dy
o by rescind..
a subsere
. wich the Plaintiffs allege they are deprived of a right
aeient legisla. secured to them by the constitution of the United Statea,

hich could
notbe

