RUPREME-COURT U. ML
DUv5
V.

c'hiEA,

Ps&n

ing of the policy. -We are therefore of opinion, that the
inderwriters not beiiig answerable for the principal loss
in this case, they cannot be so for the su §equent expelises which ,were ifcurred in recovering the property.
Thajudinent
of the Court below, is afirnied with

84 ,

STARK

1b.
TlE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE

.&SC1t...oWASHUNGTON,

J.TODD, .T.

COMPANY.

tUvA'm, 4.
D

It need- soQt
ERROR to the 1Ircuit Court for the distrit. of
pMar by te Mar" lands in an action of coyenanit upon a pblicy of asralzaton tha Au ance, 31 10101 the,pods,insured were warranted to

tek
-the requisi be 4i neraa roperty, " proof of which to be required in
ites pre~cribcdUjlSttsAls
lpy
w for the "the Unte States only." A loss by capture having
adimss:on,
,,f
taken.place, the Plain(if qfafered
"alensto the
'iens towi rrfusedl whereforethe

an abandonment which
brougtit this action

zenship have

b-ean
,ompliTo prAyo
9d with.
4, mb that te e'produced

bis citizenship and support the warranty,
and read at the-trial an exemplification dul:y
mudgmet or .alientxcated, of the record- of his naturalization, in the
like Court ad.
p'ttng the - ords t!4owing,. VIZ
come
Rilien to
a Clmzen
beC
O
f COinlnla
c-oeaie.
.M v,.
ofr mmon pleas. held at York, for the
(kat all hVY .ftQ LWy. of; Y 414I on thotlnirA Monday of May, in the
-rerq.ss "y~arof " ur lord.onethousand eilhthundred and four,
11ate been
.
Somtnjliedrq
%b-fore.John Josoph iHe r, esquire presidenh aWd
or, thatmuny
paot
p'our
be

%

ofthe rep.

i'..J10 pe.'tition 9f"Johl-Philip Stark, late of Wetgen.
stea, Bereburg,.in the empieof Germany, was read to
"6tho Voiuf settii -forth that y.our petitioner has ret
Q1sided _ 'thp gap of Pennsylvania five years, that he
0 Is w Vw desuoms .,04.,commg a citizen of the United
"Sates conforwablyto the act of congres$ in such case
itltely provided, 'your petitioner thorefore prays of the

S.assogiatejudges, &e, assig-edi.&c.
°

FEBRUARY- TERM i$1W.

421

ft hunorahle Court that he inky be-adtnitt €l to citizen",ship pin hrs' omplj-lig with the reqtnsites of the
"9act aforesaid, and your petitioner will Ifray, &c.

sT~t;

-V.
Unzak
PnEAKE

" JOHN PHILIP STARK.

s

"Jacob Hostler appearing in Court, and being du,i ly sworn, says that the petitioner above .named, has
",resided -within the dtate of Pennj1vaniqtfrce years and
i up-wards, and during that time he hab behave-4 as a
"cman of good moral chai'ater, attaclied to tlke princi"ples of the constitution of the United States, and well
"disposed to the good order and happiness of the same.
"JACO3 HOSTLER.
"Sworn and subscribed in open Court the 21st ot
"May, i1804.
",CHARLES
W. HjARTLY.
"John. 1'hilp -Stark, the above petitioner appearing
CQurt and being duly sworn, doth declare, that
",he will supportthe constitution of the United States, and
,'that he do6th absolutely and entirelyrenownce andabjore
,Fall allegiance and fidelity to every-foreign prinee pQ"ctentate, stat, or sovereignty whatever,;and.particularly
" to Christen the prince of R'etgenstezn Berleburg, in the
"cempire of Germany
",inopen

"JOHN PHILIP STARK.
"Sworn and subscribed in open Court the 21st of
"May,480 .

" CHARLES W HARTLEY.
"Whereupon the Court admitted the said John Phiiij
cF Stark to become a citizen !f the Mid United States, agreo.
"ably to the prayer of his said petition; and ordered'all'
"the'procedings'aforesad to be recorded by the clerk of
",the said Court."
The Plaintiff also proved by parol evidence that he
being a free wbite person, did reside witbin the limits
and under the jurisdiction of the United States, to -wit.
in the state of Pennsylvania, at some time between the
it8th day of June, i798, and the Isth day of April, 1802,

-

SUPREM1E8 COURT U. -S
s4u.x
'o

viz on the lst day of October, 1798, and there coA~hued to-resade from that time until the 21st of Mvay, 180 .

'lAiKc
Whereupon, the Court, at the prayer of the Defen3is. co. danlts, by their counsel, directed the jury that the PlaintifF had failed in proving the property insured under the
policy, to be American property according to the warranty, and therefore was not'entitled to recover.

To which instructionithe- Plaintiff took a bill- of exceptions.
The act of contgress of the 1i44 of vpr,48029, voL 6,
p. 74, ",to establish an. uniform rule of naturalization
"and to repeal the acts heretofore passed on that sub",ject," requires that the applicant should have IMade
a previous declaration before some Court of record of
Ins retention to become a citizen, &c. threa uears before
is adnitssio'u, anid that the- Court admitting such alien.
shall be satisfied that he has resided in the United States
five years at least, and within the state or territory
where suth Court is at thh time held,. one year at least.
The act of 26th .Aar h, 1804, Tot. 7, p. 136, dispenses
with th6 previous deodaration f intentiou, &c. as to such
aliens, '6being free white persons, as were residing
"within the limits, and under the jurisdiction 6f the
United States, at any time between the i8tM day ofJune,
1798, and the ,4thdayof April, 1802, and-who' have
clitinued to reside within the same "
The objection made by the Defendants counsel to the
reco'd of naturalization of tle Plaintiff was, that it did
not appear'by the record, that the Plaintiff had made a
previous declaration of 'his intention to become a citizen,
agreeably to thefirst ordvision of the act of 14th April,
1802, nor that he ,"es residing -within the limitsand
under the jurisdiction of the United States at any-time
between the lath of June, i7989,and the Oth of April,
i802, and continued'to reside therein so as to -be entitled to thehenefit of 'the act of the 26th of March, 180-1.
a1t was contended als that parol evidence of these facts
ought not now to be admitted in did of the record.
Qn the part of the Plaintiff it was' contended

FEBRUARY I'ERM 186-

43

1, .Thttlhe decicion of the.Court of c6mmon pleasfor strmii
Xo
the county of. York w .s conclusive. That, Court
had power and. authority to admit aliens to the right CHZSAof eitizenship-and zhaviig admitted the PlaintT, -the Pigz
grounds of their decisipn cannot now" be enquired into, Ixs, cO.,
nor the correctness-of their judgment questioned.
2. That if the record of aumission be not condlu.
rove, yet it was competent for the Plaintiff to prove now
by parol evidence the facts which did, at the time he
was admitted, entitle him to the benefit of the act qf the
26th ,ofMarch, 1801.
HIfPE.,for the Plaintiff in error, and M±iTiN, for
the Defendantzn error,
Submitted the question arising in this case withou k
argument to the CouRT, who, -Without giving, a more
particular opinion, pronounced the following JtDGMENT
This cause cam -on to be hearq on the transcript of
the record and was arguedby counsel, on consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion that the Circuit Coudr
erred in directing thejury, that the Plaintiff had faileit
in proving the"property, insured under the policy, to be
American property. It is therefore considered. by the
Court, that thejudgmefit of the Circuit Court be'reversed and anulled, and the cause remanded to that Court
to be further proceededin according tolaw.
.Judgmnntreversed.

WILLIAM WILLIAMS

i8
10

AND OTuERs, ArPrLLAxws,
,

V.

GEORGE ARMROYD

AII

OTHERs, APPEZ L

s.

Fen.

-Sm

-Absent, TODD, J.
THIS was an-,appe-al from the sentence of tife Circuit Aa

senenwe

fbeign trMCourt for the district ef Pennsylvania, which dismissed 11unnethe libel with costs.

