SUPR&ME COURT U. S.
18!I. FITZSIMMONS & O'THzits -. OGDEN & 09in-bu,
February 4th.

(Preset.,.JuDGa's WASUIRGToN, LIVINGSTON, ToDD,
DUvALL & STORY.]

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Cirlie who him
equal equity, cuit Court for the district of New York, sitting in chan-.
rday acquire cery, entered by coiisent proforina to bring the case bethe 1egal es- fore thiscourt.
tate, if he can,
.*
so as to protect

Wiequity.

The material facts as stated by Washzvgton, ilustice, in
delivering the opinion of the Couft were as follows
.For the purpose of securing certain of his creditors, Robert Morris, on the I4th of February,, 1798,
conveyed to the appellants, as Urustees for those creditots, a certain tract of land lying in Ontario county, in
the state bf New York, containing 500,000 acres, described by'certain bounds. Previous to this, he had
made conveyances to sundry persons of considerable
portions of this tract, and amongst others to the defendants, S. Ogden, J. B. Church and to G. Cottranger under
whom the heirs of a William Pulteney claims, of which
the appellants had full notice. He had also, by different
conveyances, granted to the Holland company more than
I1bree
millions of acres of land, purchasedo (as this tract
of 50o,0oo
acres had been,) front the state
of Massachusetts, all in the same county and adjoining the land in
question.
On the 8th of June, i797, a judgment at the suit of
Talbot and Allum against Robert Morris, was docketted
in the S4preme Court of the state ot New York which,
being prior in date to the conveyance made to the appellants, bound all the land which passed by'it to'the appellants. The bill states that Robert Morris, being confind n fhe jail at Philadelphia', in order to prevent any im-

YEtBRUARY TERM, IRi2.
proper use from being made of the abovejudgment, and FrrzsILIon condition that the title to the land conveyed to the trus- _mois &
tees should in no wise be impaired by it, procured Gou- OTHERS'
10.
verneur Morris to advance the money for such judgment,
from motives of friendship....that the said judgment, was OGDEN
assigned to Adam Hoops the mutual friend ind agent OTHrms.
of the parties, winch was done to prevent itfrom being
used injuriously against the trustees and the creditors
for whom they acted, and also to preserve to Robert,
1Uorris the right of redemption in 1,500,O00acres which
hehAd conveyed to the Holland company, in nature of a,
mortgage as lie supposed. That A. Hoops afterwards
assigned the saidjudgment to gouverneur Morris, and on
the 16th of September, 1799, Robart Morris confii-m-d
the said trust deed (of which it is worthy of remark, no
mention had been made in the .previous parts of the bill;)
and further agreed that any other land le might have
in that county, which had nt been previously conveyed,
should be applied to pay thatjudgment in tbe.first place,
and the said last mentioned lands were to be sold upon
an execution and to be purchased by- A. Hoops under
Talbot and Allum's judgment for the trustees, to which
G. Morris assented, the trustees agreeing to mortgage
the land to be purchased, tW repay G. :M6rris the sum
advanced fori the purchase of tle judgment.
It appears by the evidence, that, previous to 'the pro.
'mise thus charged in the bill t6 have been made by G.
M1orris, to R. Morris the judgment of Talbot aua Allun
had been c'onditionally .purcnased -by R. MUrS, jun.
one of the appellants, avowedly for his individual use,
from Cotes, Titford and Brooks who then held it by
assignment. -That when this purpose was effected it,
was agreed that the assignment should be made to A.
Hoops, though in reality for the use of R. Morris, jun
and shoduld remain iuAthe hands of a third person as an
escrow to take effect on the payment of.the note given
by the said R. Morris, jun. for the purchase of the
judgment, and that the same should belong to Thomas
Cooper, who endorsed the said note, in case he should
be compelled to discharge the same.
R. Morris, about the time when this note would become due, found himself unable to take it up, andpon

SULPREME COURT U. S.
riwzsxm- this actount, G. Morris lid been solicited by R. Morris,
Bio~s & andconsented to pay the money 4nd to retain the judgoi ai.ss .ment to secure the advance. G. Morris in his answer,
u.
expressly denies that any communication was made to
OGDENx & him by, H. Morris of his motives for asking his assisOTHERS. tance in procuring an asignment of the judgment....or
-that he had ever heard or knew of the claim of the trustees t0 any part of this 50,000 acre tract, or that the
same would, in any manner, be affected by the j idgment
of Talbot and Allum, until some time after he had paid
for the judgment, when it was accidentally communicated to him by A. Hoops, who held the ass'ignment of the,
same for A. Morris, jun. as before mentioned. Upon
receiiing this mfQrmation, G. Morris, with the assistance of his counsel, Thomas Cooper, projected a plan
for protecting the interests Of the trustees from-being
sacrificed by a sale under the execution whnch might ssue on that judgment. Articles of agreement were accordingly drawn and executed by G. Morris 'and A.
Hoops on the 29th of August, 1792, by which it was
stipulated that the whole of the lands in the county of
Ontario, purchased by R. Morris from the state of Massachusetts amounting-to upwards of four millions of
acres should be sold under the judgment, and should be
purchased by A. Hoops who should convey a certain
part thereof to G. Morrts, and should also mortgage,that
part of the said land which then belonged to the trus,
tees, to the said G. Morris, for securing the advance
made by him on the purchase of the said judgment. Although this large tract of country was, by this arrange.
meit, to be sold under tlh abbve judgment, yet that.
judgtent being posterior td the- conveyances made to
the Holland company, as well as to the othev.defendants
below, theywere consequently not 'bound by the judgment, nor could the title of the grantees have een affected by a sale under it. The object of this agreement,
however, in relation to those lands, was to secure to G.
Morris a supposed, but totally unfounded claim which
R. Morris had asserted to anm equity of redrmption in
one of the. large tracts sold by -hm to the Holland Company, and also an imaginavr quantity of surplus land
presumed by B. Morris to J e somewhere within the
bounds of this great tract of country which was to ba
sold, which surp'lus, as it afterwards turned out, had no

FEBRUARt r TERM 1812.
Veal existence. As to the land belonging to the-trustees, RITZSIAwhich it is admitted was bound by this judgment, G. BiOs &
Morris Was contented to receive a mortgage of that to oTHEnRS
secure his advance for the judgment.
T.
A draft of an agreement was also made by Thomas
Cooper, by the directions of G. Mor~is and delivered to A.
Hoops to be carried to Philadelphia, and to be proposed
to R. Morris and thh trustees,....but the terins of that
agreement do not appear in any part of this record, atthough it is fairly to be presumed that it did not vary
materially from the above agreement between G. Morris
and A. Hoops. This draft was not altogether approved
by the parties in Philadelphia, and another agreement
was accordingly drawn and executed by R..Morris, the
trustees and A. Hoops, bearing date the 16th of September, 1799, which did not materially differ from the
agreement of the 29th of August preceding, except, that.
by the latter, the surplus land, if there should be any,
was to be mortgaged to the trustees as a security for reimbursing the whole o1 such part of the aforesaid judgment as the trustees might be obliged to pay for the discharge of the mortgage to be given by A. Hoops for securing the advance made by G, Morris for the purchase
of the judgment.
This agreement was afterwards shown to G. Morris
who expressed some displeasure at its departure from the
lan which he had himself arranged, but he admits in
his answer that he never communicated his disapprobation either to R. Morris or to the trustees.
It appears m evidence that there was a stay of exetution on the judgment of Talbot and Allum for three
years from the time it was entered, which of course
would not have expired before the 8th of June, 1800.
'This stay was released by R. Morris at some period subsequent to the interview which took place at the jail between R. Morris and G. Morris; but the particflartime when it was executed does not appear from the record. It is not, however, improbable that it was not
long subsequent to the second of May, :1799, since it
appears that, on that day, R. Morrisjun. in a letter addressed to T. Cooper. directing him to assign the said

OGDEN,. &
OTHERS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rPrzsnz- judgtnent to G. Morris, requested lim also to for*ard
imous & to him tle form of a release to be executed by his
oGTERs father.
'V.

of the arrangemeait winch had been
E~s. agieed upon,.between these parties as above mentioned,
all the lands which R. Morris had purchased from the
state.of Massachusetts in the county of Ontario were
advertised to be sold under 'the said judgment, on the
6th'of February, 1800. Hoops, as it had been agreed,
attended on the. day of sale and bid for the land, but beingoverbid and not having the means to pay for the same
'incase it should be struck off to him, le prevailed upon
the sheriff to adjouru the salp to the 13th of May following, upon his engaging to pay the sheriff his poundage, which undertaking G. Morris. soon afterwards,
0 application, -furnished him with the means of dischargflig.

.o,.SN & , In pursuance

o

On the 92d of April, :,oo, G. Morris, without havng communicated to 11. Morris or to the trustees the
slightest, intimation that he had come to such a determnation, assigned over the said judgment to the Holland
cempany for Tfull consideration paid therefor, and without notice, as they, the Holland company, expressly allege in their answer, of the claim of the trustees or of
the'equity stated in their bill.
The same day, articles of agreement were entered into
between Thomas L. Ogden....the Holland company....
aid G. Morris by, which it was stipulated that the
sale of all the lands by the execution on the aforesaid
judgment, should take place, and should. be purchased
by,the said Ogden in trust to convey to the Holland company the several tracts of land which had bben granted
to them, by It.Morris and to the several persons to
whom conveyances had~been made within the limits of
gig, oo,ooo acre tract prwr to the deed to the trustees,
the, tracts tq-wluch they were respectively entitled, or
such ?parts there6f as' three persons, Hamilton, Cooper
and Ogden should direct; and as to thp residue of the
said .oo,00o0, in trust to convey the same to such persons, in such parcels and upon such terms as the. said
iamilton: 'nd others should direct. In execution of this
-agreement, Ogden attended the sale on the 13th of May,

FEBRUARY qERMA i812.

7

and purchased the whole of the -lands taken in execution :xTzsI_
under the said judgment for the su&i or 9 5,200 and re- iozis &
beived a sheriff's deed for the same. Hamilt9n, Cooper oTHEits
IV.
and Ogden, in vtrtu of the powers vested in them, directed conveyances to, be made by Ogden to the Holland OGDEN &
company according to the bounds expresse4 in the seve'- GTHEmS.
ral conveyances to them by R. ,'orris, except so far as
such bounds would interfere with Watson, Crag-e and
Greenleaf. In order to compensate the defendants, Samuel Ogden,, str William Pultene.y and John B. Church.
for, the land taken on the westwar(T of their tracts, by
fixing the true meridian line of' the Holland comlianyto
the east, the 'eastern line of those pet-sons is made to run
in upon the lands cliutmed by the trustees, s6 far as to
land mentioned in
give- the formdr the full, quantity dt1
their respective conveyances. The direction, or awaril
as it is called, then proceeds to allot to the trusteo
58,570 acres (not half the quantity they claimed) upon cextainconditions, one of which is to pay to the said trustee,
fo the use of the Holland company, S 5,623 with interest from the 22d of o~anuary, 1800. This sum together with others charged upon such of the grantees
as were benefited by this arrangement, were intended to
reimburse the Holland company, the sums they had advauced, not only for the purchase of Talbot and Allum's
judgment, but of another, which, eing posterior to the
conveyance to the trustees, created, of course,'no lien
upon any part of the 500,000 acre tract.
The prayer of the bill is for.a conveyance by Thomas'
L. Ogden, of all the land to which the trustees are entitled according to its real boundaries, upon the trustee.s
paying such -propo.rtion of the money due by Talbot and
Allum's judgment as is fau'ly chargeable on their land,
and for general relief.
TI'us. cause was argue&at great length in February.
18.0, by _Pendleton and Lewis for the Complainants, and,
for the Defendants, and
by Edwards and
again at this term by Joseph 1?. I..gersoll, E. Tilghman,
P B. Key and Lewzis for the Complnants, and by . B.
Ogden and Stockton,for the Defendants.
,For the Complainants, it was contended

8

SUPREME COURT U. S.

VirgisimThat Thomas L. Ogden, who purlased the land at
Dos & the shrriff's sale 'mder Talbot and, Allum's judgment,
oTnnus was, inder all the circumstances of the case, to be conV.
sidered in,equityj .as a trustee for the Complainants, f6
OGDEN & the extent of their legal title before that sale....or in
,Cins.
other Words, that the -sale was void as to the Complatnants, tnd ought to be set aside upon the complainants,
paying their proportion of the amount due- upon the
judgment, which was a lien upon two smaller tracts, as
well as upon that which was claimedby the Couiplainants.
Thomas L. Ogden was the agent of the Holland company to whom Gouverneur Morris had assigned the
judgment. This. assignment having passedi-not a legal.
hut an equitdble right to a chose in action, 'was subject
to the same eqIty-ii the hands of the Holland company
Q3 it was in the hands of Gouverneur Morris, whether
the Holland company had actual notice of that equity or
not, because nothing but the equit.7ble right of Gouverneur Morris passed by the assignment. The Holland
company had no right to use it in any other way than
he could- have used it. They could make no use of -it
which he could not have made 'with a good conscience.
They were bound by the same conscientious principles
towards Robert Morris the elder and the Complainants.
which ought to have guided Gouverneur Morris. , Then
agent, T. L. Ogden, could not give a better estate under the sale than G. Morris himselfcould, if he had continued to hold the judgment and had become the pur-

chaser. The -only equity which he had was to the ex-

tent of,the security necessary.to reimburse the money
which he had advanced, at the request-and for the use
and benefit of Robert Morris. He merely became a
creditor of Robert Morris with a lien upon the lands to
the extent of the debt, which lien he held under a trust,
a confidence, a plighted faith, that it should not be enforced to the injury of Robert Morris, or lIs assignees;
4nd even that it should-be used for the benefit of R. Morris or his assignees, as far as it could be used consistent
witfl G. Morris's security as to the mount paid for the
judgment. Indeed,, as the only interest or equity which
G. Mrris had inthe judgment was merely as a security
sub modo for the amount due upon the judgment, the
judgment as to every other use which could be made,
of it, consistent with the security of G. Morris., belonged.

FEPRUARY TERM ±812.

iors was bound in conscience FiTzsi.f.and good faith to use it n such manner as I. Morris mous &
should direct. If therefore Gouverneur Morris, instead OTHERS
v.
ofT. L. Ogden, had purchased the land under the judg&
OGDEN
indemnity4
an
as
merely
it
holden
ment, he would have
and as to every other purpose wQuld have been a trustee OTHERS.
for -R. Morris or his assigns.

-to I. Morris; and G.

The facts,. so far as the conscience of G. Morris
was concerned in the case, are simply these. Robert
3 Iorris, the elder, knowing that the judgment threatened
the validity of the deed of trust which he had made to the
Complainants, who represented a class of creditors to
whom he felt himself under peculiar obligations, entered
into an engagement, through the agency of his son R.
Morrisjun. to purchase the judgment for the purpose of
holding it as a shield for the protection of the conveyance'
to the Complainants. Being unable to comply with the
terms of the purchase, ho requested Gouverneur Morris
to advance the money due on thejudgment, saying that
lie would thereby render him an essential service, and
would be safe as 'the judgment was a lien upon a very
large tract of land. To this,.G. Morris assented, from
mtives of friendship, and to render is friend an essential service. How it was to have that effect, was not
perhaps, at tluit, time explained, but the natural inference was that the judgment was to be subject to the control of R. Morris, as to every disposition of it consistant with the security and indemnity of G. Morris, who
was bound in conscience, in honor, and in friendship, to
have submitted it'to his control. The disposition which
he did make of it, was in violation of all these obligations, and therefore ought in equity to be set aside.
The Complaihants had a right to tender the amount
due, upon.thejudgment to G. Morris at any time. -They
knew that the judgment was a lien upon their lands, but
they knew that there was a stay of execution until the th
of June, 1800. Until that period they were safe....ana
Mr. R. Morris himself could not in equity release that
stay so as to affect those lands without giving notice to
the Complainants. It would have been a fraud if he
bad. They knew that the judgment had been assigned
to G. Morris. They knew the circumstances under which
that assignment was made. They knew the understands
VOL. VIT.

SUPREME C&URT U. S.
YITZSIM-

.aoxs .&
OThERS
v.
OGDEN &
OTnRs.

iug, the friendship, the confidence which subsisted be,

tween Gouverneur Morris and Robert Morris, the elder.
They had a right to rely upon it and to consider themselves as safe. They had a right to believe that no use
would be made of thejuilgment without their knowledge.
They knew of the release of the stay of execution, and
that the release was made for their benefit. They were
parties to the agreement under which it was made, they
knew that this agreement had been made known to G.
Morris and that he'had acquiesced, if not assented. But
neither his acquiesence nor assent was necessary, except as to the provision made for his indemnity .....
for so
-far only was he interested. They knew that a sale for
their benefit had been attempted under the judgient,
but was postponed to a future day. They knew that
the failure of this attempt and the postponement of the
sale, were known to G. Morris, and that he had even
pi.d the poundage demanded by the sheriff upon the
postponement. He knew that all these things were so
understood by the Complainants, and that they had this
confidence in him, and were lulled into security. At this
moment, without any notice, or intimation to the Complainants, he assigned over the judgment.to the Holland
company, for purposes which he knew to be repugnant
to the interests of the Complainants. It is this of which
the Plaintiffs complain as unconcientious and injurious,
and the consequences of which they seek to avoid.
It is true that G. Morris timself cannot properly be
charged as a trustee, because an equity cannot, with
propriety, be said to be the subject of a trust, or to be
holden in trust, for the equity will always be m the
cestueque trust, and not in the trustee. But if G. Nor
ris, under all these circumstances, had himself acquired
the legal estate to the lands conveyed to the 3omplainants, lie would have been a trustee for them, upon their
payinjg or tendering hiufthe money due by the judgment.
He had no other equity to protect, and could not have
protected Ins legal title uder the equity of other. Nor
had the-Holland company any equity to protect. Therp
were no anterfering lines. nor any other cause of dispute
betiveen them and the Complainants. Their agent,
,Thomas L. Ogden, even after the.sheriffs sale, was in no
better situation than G. Morris would ,have been in, if
he had been the purchaser. He had no right tb clgm

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

11

protection under the equity of any third person. He had FlTzsi3!
-full notice from the Complainants befofe he made any con- moxs &
veyanceunderwhatis calledthe awardofHamilton, Ogden OTHIERs
T.
and Cooper. He therefore is to be considered merely as
theagent of the Hollandcompany, who took only the equl- OGDEN &
ty of G. Morris, and having acquired the legal estate OTHEES.
with full knowledge that the Complainants were entitled
to every possible benefit under thbtjudgmentbeyond the
interest of GoQuverneur Morris, whose right extended
only to indemnity for the advance he had made lie is&fo
be considered as a trustee, for the Complainants for all
beyond that mdemnity; and upon receiving the amount
due upon the judgment, ought to be decreed to convey to
the Complainants all the lands which lie purchased at
the sheriffs sale which lie within, the tract conveyed t)
them by R. Morris, by the deed of the isth of February, 1798.

It was also contended by the Counsel for the Complainants, that in as much as Mr. R. Morris, had agreed to
release the stay of execution for one purpose, only, the
execution could not legally be issued for another purpose, and therefore the sale was void at law. But whatever intrinsic force thins argument might have had, it
could not be considered by the Court, because it was exJ
pres~ly admitted upon the record that the execution was
regularly 7ssued.
It was further said in behalf of the Complainants, that
although, at -thetime when G. Morrp agreed to purchase
the judgment, it was not stated in what manner the j udgment should be used so as to be of service to his friend 1.
Morris, yet as G. Morris varied the conversation, lie
mustbe considered as havingagreed thatR. Morris should
direct itrwhat manner it should be used....aud that as
R. Morri§ by his agreement of the i6th of September,
1799, did direct how it should be used, (to which agreement G. Morris did not object,) he was in equity bound
to' suffer that agreement to he carmed into effect, and
therefore his assignment of the judgment to the Holland
company with a view to defeat the~purpose of that agreement was against conscience, and affected all the subsequent proceedings under that assignment.
The conveyances made by T. L. Ogden to Church and
others, being made after notice given to him by the Corn-

12

SUMlIME COURT U. S.

plainants cannot injure their rights. He is liable to
them at all events, and must look to those to whom he
oTHOiaS has conveyed the lands for his iemnity....an indemnity
T.
which he has taken care to sect

ilTzsimMoxs &

OGDEN'&

oWHEns.

The counsel for the Complaina _,
9w
9 that by the
assignment of the judgment nothing but ati equitable mi.
terest passed, and that the assigne, held it liable to the
same equity to which it had been jable in the hands of
the assignor, cited, 1. Vez. :123, Mill v. Caillovel. 2.
Fern, 765, Turto iv. Benson. FP§ec. in Chancenj 521,

8.C,

To show that a purchaser without notice is not protected, if he has notice before he pays the purchase money and gets a deed, they cited, 1. .Iltkns S81, W ig9 IV.
Wigg. 2. Atk. 630, 0M, Story v. Lord Windsor 2.
Eq. ca. ab. 685, pl. 9. Jones v. Stany. 3. P Wins.
307 2burville -v. Xazsh.
To support the position that where the assignment
passes only an equity, notice is not necessary....and that
if no legal estate passes, qut prnor est i tempore, potior
est u jure, they, cited, 3. P Wins. 308. Tourville v.
• Vash. 3. Brown, C. C. 264. Williams v. Lamoe.
'I o show that a trustee is liable for a breach of trust,
they cited 1. P Wins. 12,8. Pye v. George. 2. P Wins.
610. Jansell v. Mansell. 2. Salk, 680, Pye v. George.
tnd Gilbert's Forum 27omanum.
To show that where a recital in a deed leads to notice, there notice shall be presumed, they cited 1. ca.
in ch. 291. Bisco v. Earl of Banbury. 2. ca. zn ch. 246,
.1oore -v. Benett § .mbler, 311, 312. 1. Jtkans, 490,
Smith v. Law. Fernon, 885, Ferrars v. Cherry.
And to show what will raise an implied trust, they
cited, I. Vezey 289, Barneslj v. Powell. 1. Vernon,
276, Palmer v. Yomng. I. P Wims. Brown v. Litton,
1. dtk. 383, 384, Wigg v. Wigg. 1. Br. C. C. 81, Sonlej v. Clockmakers company....andthe case of Slocum and
-wIfe v, Mfarshal and others, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the district of Pennsylvania.
On behalf of the appellees, it was said,

FEBRUARY TERM .1i.
Ist. That there was no trust for the benefit of the FITZS1Complainapts . and consequently they have no equity.
moNs &
'OTHERS

2. That if there ws originally a trust for their benv.
efit, yet as the Defendants have acquired the legal title, oGDEN &
(without notice of the equity ofthe Complainants,) they,., OTHERS.,
tbhe Defendants, have equity enough to support the legal
estate they have thus acquired, to the extent of the number of acrea intended orignally to have been conveyed to
them by R. Morris, the elder.
4st. There was no trust for the benefit of the Complainants.
The. Complainants set forth the trust ;n, Gouverneur
Morris to be to prevent the judgmentfrom beuig used injurzously to them, and to preserve to Robert Morris, is
right of redemption tu that part of the lands -which was
supposed to be mortgaged to the Holland company. No
consideration flowed from the Complainants, whereby to
raise an implied trust in their favor. The consideratior
was merely personal between Gouverneur Morris an
Robert Morris, it was a matter of confidence, and
the former violated that trust or confidence, he was li,
ble only to Robert Morris.
At law, no man can support an action upon an agreement unless he is aparty; or some consideration flowed
from him. Cro. El. 369, Jordan v. Jordan. I. Str
592, Crow v. Rogers. 1. Vent. 6, Bourne v. Jlason.
It is true there are some modern cases in which it has
been holden that the person to whose use the promise
was made may maintain an action in his own name. but
it must be in a case where the, whole use and be,#eft are
to accrue to the Plaintiff. But here, even as stated in
the bill, the trust was in part for the benefit of Robert
Hlforns.
If the Complainants would not have a right to enforce
the agreement at law, neither can they compel its execution m eouity.
This bill is in the nature of a bill for the specific performance of the agreement between Robert Morris and
Gouverneur NoRm, chargng the Holland company
with notice.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FITzSIN-

A Court of Chancery decrees a specific execution of

moNs &

a contract because a suit at law would not give a comOTHERS plete remedy, but a.Court of Chancery will not decree a
a.
specifie performance unless the p?rty would have a right
OGDEN & to recover damages in a Court of law. Here was no
OTrHERS. right at law, and ther'efore this court cannot decree a
specific performance of the agreement. 1. Vez. 44-1,
P'enn -v. Lord Baltinore. Sclholles and Lefroy 552, HarTCey V. Yielding.
It is an universal principle in Chancery, that the complainant must show himself entitled by his bill. MIiford
43 (15) Bartons suit ?n equity, 36, 37 He must recover according,to his allegations and Ins proofs. PrQofs
without allegations are not sufficient, even if his proofs
should show a good title to Xelief. The only allegation
like an averment of a trust is that G. Morris agreed that
he would not use thejudgment to the ijury of the Complainants, nor to bar I. Morris's right of redemptiih.
As to the latter part of the supposed trust the Complainants cannot recover, and R. Morris is no party to the
suit. On this account the bill is defective....2. IAtk. siO,
Damwent v. Walton. But even the allegation in the bill,
imperfect as it is, is not supported by the evidence. G.
Morris, in his answer, denies that R. Morris communicated to him his motives for wishing him to purchase
the judgment, and most expressly deilies apy agreement on his part not to use it to the prejudice of the
Complainants. This answer, being directly responsive
to the allegation of the bill is conclugve evidence, unless contradicted by more than one witness. 'But it is
confirmed by the deposition of R. Morris, as far as it
relates to that interview. G. Morris states thathe was
induced td become the purchaser by motives of personal
fiiendship towards R. Morris. It was the duty, therefore, of RI. Morris to have explained to his friend in
what manner the purchase was to be made serviceable
to lii,
and wlk0 were the parties really to be benefited
thereby If he did not do it, and intended that others
should derive the benefit, it was a fraud upon the feelings
of friendship. But it is clear that R. Morris did not
request it with a view principally to the security of-the
,Complainants. He states in his deposition that his objects were, i. The equity of redemption, 2. The surplus tract which it was supposed temained unconveyed,

FEBRUART TE]RM-m12.
and 3d. To prevent injury to the Complainants. The virzsIivisit of R. Morris) jun. to New York, was to prevent Nroxs &
the effect of certain attachments, and. to secure the sur- oTHnUS
plus lands so as to make a provision for ins- mother.
T.
Hoops, in his depositi6n, says that the sdcurity of the OGDEN &
Complainants was not an object in the first purchase 'of OTHERS.
the judgment.
There was neither equity of -redemption nor purplus
land. How then was .G. Morris to be secured for the
amount of the judgment, unless. by the lands of the
Complainants? And yet they say that thejudgment was
not to affect those lands. It would be absurd to suppose
such a trust. The agreement of 16th of September.
1799, shows that there was no such trust. And the an-swee of G. Morris, not being contradicted, is conclusive
evidence that the trust did not exist. Pre. ch. 19, King,dome v. Boakes. 2. Jtk. :10, Janson -v. Rany. 3. dtk.
407, Only v. Walker 1. hr C. C. 52, .Pember -v.
Hathers.
No equity arose from the release of the stay of execution. If there -did, it was an equity in R, .Aorns,
and not'in the Complainants.
The time and plbace of sale were fixed by the agent
of the Compkiinants, and therefore they cannot complain,
nor allege the want of notice.
The inadequacy of price is by no means so great as
the Complainants pretend, but if it was it cannQt affect
the equity of the Defendants case. If they obtained the.
legal title they have equity enough to support it, even if
it cost them much less than 5,000 dollars. But asheriff's
sale farly and publicly nade has never been set aszde for
nnadequaey of prece. If there beno trust, the inadequacy of the ph-ce-is immaterial.
There must be in every trust, a szbject of thd trust, a
trustee, and a cestue que trust. But here is no subject....
the proceeds of the judgment were not for the Complainants, Tlhey were the absolute property of G. Morris.
He never held the land. But what sort of a trustwas
it? Not a resulting trust, for that can only be raised in
favor of the person from whom the consideration moved.

StIREPAE COVRT V. S.
Pi[TzsIn- And that it was not an express trust is adniitted, If it
3xoNs & was neither an implied nor an express trust, G. Morris
oTH-Rs was the absolute owner of the judgment.
-V.
OGDEN

&

OTHERS.

A man can ijot be made a trustee unless the, extent, of
his trust be fully explained to him. 10, Pez. jun. 511,
Lench v. Lench.
The fact of the trust is to be found by the Court from
the evidence as ajury would find it
Secret trusts are dangerous. Since the statute of
frauds nothing is left of the whole fabrid of parol trusts
but a resulting trust....which is a trust arising by implication, from the'fact that the purchase money was paid
by, or the consideration moved from, the party who
claims the benefit of the trust. 2. AtIk. 381, Parterwhe
v. JPowlet. 3. Br C. C. 5 7, Fordyce v. Willis. And
it is only lately parol evidence has been admitted to prove
the facts from winch a trust, as to lands, would result.
Crw se's digest, 472. 1. Vern, 366, Gascoignev. Thewvzng. 10. Vez. jun. 366, Rider v. Kidder
In the case of Lloyd and Jobson- v. Spillet and others, z.
2, .Atk, 150, Lord Hardwkche said,...."I am now bound
",down by the statute of frauds and perjuries, to construe
"nothing a resultigtrust, but what are there called trusts
"by operation of law; and what are those? Why, first,
" when an estate is purchased in the name of one .person,
"but the money or consideration is given by andther;
-' or secoudly, where a trust is declared only as to part,
" and nothing said as to the rest what remains, undis-posed of, req11-If ° .Z the heir at law, and they cannQt
*;be said to be trustees for the residue. I do not know
" any other instance where this Court have declared
",resulting trusts by operation of law, unless in cases of
*'fraud and where transactions have been carried on
-mata fide.9
Lord. Harkwlcke was not perfectly correct as td theextent of the doctrine. Later cases have ,added the
cases of a failure of the consideration....and where the
consideration is merely nominal. 1. Cruise dig. %'71,
S29, c. A purchaser for, full value has never been
adjudged to be a trustee-for another, 7 Br Par&ca.

FEBRUARY TERM 4mS2;

5-767 1ilkintion v. Bailey, i Crunze 186, § 60. S. C. riXrZSIx.abidged, &Bur, 2255.

-MONS

2d. But if there had been a trust, and although the
assignment by G. Morris to the Holland company, was
an assignment of an equitable right only, and therefore
not protected by want of notice, yet the agent of the
Holland company having obtained the legal title without
notice of the trust either by himself or the Holland company, he has a right to hold against a mere legal claim
on the part of the Complainants. For the mistake as to
the boundary, being a mistake to then prejudice of ttDefendants, can create no equity in favor of the Complainants. Itwas a mistake by which the Complainants
would have gained, and thle Defendants would have lost,
more than one thousand acres of land. If Gouverneur
Morris had purchased the juogment with a full knowledge of this mistake of the boundaries, and with a view
to secure the benefit thereof for the Complainants, and
to do this injustice to the Defendants, no Court of equity
would have aided him in accomplishing the purpose; and
even if he had acquired the legal title to the land under
such circumstances, it is more than probable that a
Court of equity would have granted relief to the De.
fendants.
A Court of equity will never interfere against a bbu

ful purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice, but will permit him to save himself by any legO
plank which he can lay hold on. 1. Eq. ca. ab. 3M3,
322. and in the case of Jerrardv. Sanders..2; Vez.jun.
457, Lord Loughborough said that in such a case a Court
of equity has nojumsdition.
In as much therefore as the Complainants who seek to
gaiu hy the loss of the Defendants. have no equity arising
from the mistake of the boundaries, and as the Defendants
have the legal title supported by a strong case in equity,
the Complranants are not entitled to the aid of a Court of
equity.
Feb. !20.* WASHINGTON, J. after stating the facts of
the case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:
* Absent Mfsuuniim

ML. VUt

Ch. J. aD lwgston, J. the other gve preaent,

v.
oGDEN.4
oTHERs.'

SUPaZE

COURT U. S.

The first pQint made by the. counsel for the appellants
& is, that G. Morris ought t6 be considered as a trustee
oTrieRs of Talbot and, Allum's judgment for the trustees. On
v.
this point it is contended that, although in the first inoGDEN & stance, G. Morris might have had no other inducement in
OTHERS. purchasing that judgment than to perform a friendly
service to R. Morris, yet he afterwards charged himself
with the interests of the trustees by an express declaration contained in the agreement of the 29th of August,
1799, connected with the subsequent agreement of the
16th of September, i799,-wich, notwithstanding his disapprobation of some parts of it, he adopted by his silence
and subsequent conduct. The trust being thus established, it is then contended that the Holland company, the
purchasers of this judgment from G. Morrs, took the
same clothed with all the equitable rights of the trustees,
which were attached to it in the hands of G. Morris upon
the ground that a judgment is a chose in action, and the
assignment passes no more than an equitable interest to
thedebt of which it is the evidence. Having arrived at
this point, the title of the trustees is placed upon the
well known principle which governs a Court of Chancery, that between merely equitable claimants, each having equal equity with the other, he who hath the precedency in time, has the advantage in right.

PILzsxilMoNs

If the cause rested upon this state of the case, it would
be incumbent on the Court to examine these principles
and their application to the respective pretensions of the
trustees and of the H-oland company
Whether an
equity arising to-a third person who claims the chose idf
action, and whose title depends upon a secret trust and
confidence between him and the ostensible assignee, haE,
equal equity with the person who afterwards purchases
the judgment bona fide and without notice of a fact not
disclosed by the previous assignments, is a questionwhich
the Court deems it unnecessary to decide, because, tho
the equity of the trustees and -the Holland company
should be a!lmitted to be equal, yet-the latter have acquired another title to the subject in controversy which
a Court of equity will never disturb. They, or rather
their trustee, have got the fruits~of their execution, an&il
have obtained the legal estate in the land on which the
judgment gave them only a lien. Having at least equal
equity with~the trustees, it was perfectly justifiable in
thenito obtain a superiority by buying in the legal estlte.

FEBRUARY TERM ±812.
kware of this difficulty, one of the counsel for the apel3ants found it necessary to contend that the sale on the
13th of May was absolutely void, the execution having
been taken out before it could lawfully issue in consequence of the stay on record which prevented its
emanation prior to the 8th of June following. This,
however is arguing against the fact; because we hlnd
that long prior to the sale and assignment of the judgment to the Holland company, the estatum ft. fa. had
issued by the consent of R Morkis as well as of the trustees, who, on the 6th of Feb. 1800, had endeavored to
render it effectual by a sale -attempted on that day.
The release of the stay is not spread on the record so
that the terms of it, or its date might be examined. But
since the execution could not legally issue without a regular release filed in the Court where the judgment was
of record, and since the form of such a release was applied for, by one of the trustees so early as the 2d of May,
1799, it must be presumed, against the trustees and in
favor of the regularity of the proceedings, that the re.
lease was in due form, and bore date prior at least to t1he
emanation of the execution.
But it is contended that the consideration for this release was the trust declared by G. Morris in August,
1799, or acquiesced in by him under the agreement of the
16th Sep. and that his breach of trust in selling thejudg,ment to the Holland company with a view to :the-intended
purchase of the lands in dispute by them, did away the
effect of the release previously executed by R. Morris.
That this was a ligal consequence of the allegedbreach
of trust can scarcely be maintained. The release.being
once regularly executed and delivered could never afterwards be avoided at law by a failure of one of the
parties to perform an act in consideration of .viich the
release' was given. It could extend no further than to
charge G. Morris with a breach of contract for which
he might be personally liable to the party aggrieved.
But as to third persons claiming fairly under him, without notice of the alleged breach of trust, the legal effect of the release would remain unimpaired.
It is very obvios, however, that the whole of this argument is founded on an assumption of facts which
are not proved, and which cannot and ought not to be
presumed. It does not appearfrom the evidence in the

izs[rmoNs &
o
R9
1v.
oGiinN &
OTHERS.

SUPREME COUfRT tr. S.
Fruzsim- cause thaT the trust assumed by G. Morris was the con
MoNs & sidrration of that release, -and yet if the trustees would
OTHEPRS avail themselves of that circumstance to invalidate.the
v7.
sale, and to dcprive the Holland company of the shield
VGDEN & by which they have protected their equitable interest,
oTHEns. such proof should be clearly made out. On the contrary, the Court must consider the fact as established (since
it is asserted on oath by G. Morris in answer to a charge
in the bill, that the object of G. Morris in purchasing
the judgment, was to confer a personal benefit on R.
Morris only,) that, in consequence of thia undertaking,
made with the knowledge of one of the trustees, and for
the purpose of giving effect to this intention, the release
was made, and it is fairly to be presumed that it was
executed lon.g prior to the arrangement made by G.
Moris and the trustees in August and September, 799,
because, as has been before observed, the form of a
release was applied for as early as the 2d of May preceding. If the date of the release was contemporaneous
with, or subsequent to the agreements of August and
September, it was in the power of the trustees fully to
have established -the fact. Being essential to their argument, their having omitted to furnish the proof affords
a strong presumption against them.
It is contended that the Holland company ought to be
considered inthe light of purchasers of the judgment
with notice of the trust, because, knowing, as they were
bound to do, that the execution could not issue before
the 8h of June, 1800, they were necessarily led to inquire into the right which they assumed of taking out
execution at a prior dayj and in making this inquiry
they must have come to a knowledge of the trust. But
the previous issue of the execution, fortified by the circumstance of the sale under it attempted in February
and continued by adjournment to the 13th of May. rendered all inqmnries intothe cause of the release unnecessary. It was enough for them that the impediment to
the issuing -of the execution was removed at the time
they purchased the judgment.
The cause appears to the Court to be so clearly in
favor of the Holland company and those claiming under them, upon the point which has been examined, that
it seems almost unnecessary to notice those circumstances. wlich detract from the equitable title of the trustees.

FEBRUARY TERM isi ,

But it is obvious that the injury of which they complain PITZS1L-

has arisen in a great measure from the want of energy -IoNs &
in themselves, and akmd of .ielpless dependence upon oTnmPs
others, even after they were fully apprized of the steps
v.
which'were taking and which finally led to the loss from oGDEZ &
which they now seek to extricate themselves. Mr. oTHEnS.
Fitzsimmons was informed by A. Hoops, prior to the
22d of Apkil, 1800, that the agent of the Hollaut company had gone on to New York, and the intention of
this visit was most probably communicated to himn, as
Mr. Hoops, at the same time, advised hun to have an
understanding with G. Morris. If he received from
this advice nothing further than a hint of possible mischief, it was sufficient to put them upon inquiryand exertion.
An attempt was made, though not much pressed, to
charge G. Morris with a breach of trust, and with the legal consequences thereof. That his declining to communicate to the trustees his.intended sale of Talbot and
Allum's judgment to the Holland company upon terms
which might seriously affect the interest of the former.
was unkind, and a departure from the friendly conduct
he-had manifested towards them, may be admitted. But
since it must be taken as a fact in the cause that no promise of any kind had been made by G. Morris in favor
of the trustees, or to his knowledge, in reference to their
interests, prior to the agreement of the 29th of August,
1799...(and even this agreement, or the draught made by
Cooper and forwarded by Hoops to R. Morris and the
trustees for their signature, is not alleged in the bill
with any degree of certainty as a ground on which the
trust is founded-) and since the arrangement proposeft
by G. Morris in that agreement and draught was rejected by those parties and another sub~titued in their stead
to which G.Morris was no party, it would be going too
far for a Court of equity, in such a case, and in favor of
persons who would do nothing for themselves, to make
G. Morris a trustee by implication for the purpose of
charging hm with a breach of trust. It is true that G.
Morris might have communicated to the trustees his
disapprobation of the change they had made in his arrangement, and his refusal to abide by that which they
had proposed as asubstitute, so as to have afforded them
an opportunity to retrace their steps. But surely he
Was not, n point of law, as much bound to make such a

6UPREME COURT U. S.
FITSIM-

Bioxs &
oTHERS
10.
OGDEN &
OTHERS.

communication as the trustees were to obtain a certain
knowledge of his assent to the agreement of the 16th
September. He had gratuitously offered to do a favor
to the trustees upon certain conditions. They reject the
offer as mad- and propose other conditions. It was incumbent on then to obtain lis assent to the new proposal if they meant to consider lim in the fight of a trustee.
Tile opinion given upon these points renders it unnecessary to consider the question of boundaries.
Decree affirrned, without prejudice.

BRIG JAMES WELLS v THE U. STATES.
1812.
February Sth

aIbsent....JMarshall,chief justicc.
In cases of ad-

I'ratyjuis-

diction, new

evidence will
be admitted in

THIS was an appeal from a sentence of the Cir
cuit court which affirmed that of the District Court of

Connecticut, restorin the Cargo but condemning tho
for that pur- brig James Wells, an American registered vessel, -for a
pose aromnus- volation of the 3d section of the embargo act of Januaion may mue. rv 9th, i808, in making a voyage to St. Bartholomews.
The evidence under a clearance for the port of St. .Mary's, %nthe state
o°that
ne'bcof Georgia. The
excuse suggested
by the claimant of
' 99
.
sity wlleb~ Vill
excuse a wolL- the vessel was stress of weather He stated in his claim
tion of the
and answer, that the vessel laden with 1272 barrels of
7musrgo ve2 four, sailed from New York on the 26th of February,
clear and pos- i808, cleared and bound for St. .1farij's, with a bona fide
itive.
intention of going there, and witliout any intent of going to any foreign place. But that by contrary wznds,
and stress of weather and the leaky condition of the vessel.
he was compdlled against his will (lie being owner and.
supercargo) and against the will of the captain and crew,
to go to, and enter the port of Gitstama, in the island of
St. Bartholomews, in the West Indies, where lie was
obliged by the leaky and shattered condition of the yes.
sel, to unlade the cargo, which was greatly damagedo
and he could not afterwards obtain permission to carry
it away again, but was compelled to sell it there,
this court- and

