FEBRUARY TERM iL81,
i82a.

NATHANIEL RUSSELL
IV.

JOHN I. CLARIY'S EXECUTORS,

Feb.

AND

17ih.

0TEi11S.

.bsent....Tashzngton, 3ustice.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for tlifDistrict of Rhode
Island, in a suit in equity, brought by Russell, against The construeClark in his life time, as surviving partner of the fn-m tion of a letter
credit, or
of Clark and Nightingale, to recover from him the of
of guaran3;
must
Jonby
one
drawn
of
exchange,
bills
amount of sundry
ina
none bu-tKe
•
e
,ourt of eqtiathan Russell, for the use of Robert Murray & Co. CCun
whose agent he was, upon James B. Murray, in Lon- tb', as in a
oflawCourt
Rus- and
any
facts
•
don, and indorsed by the Co mplainant, Nathaniel
sell, upon the faith of two letters written to him by anhih mfact
beintroduced
Clark and Nightingale, in the following words
ino one Court,
to explain the

.Providence, 20th January, 179G.
"Jathautel IRussell, Esq.
D BAI

sIR,

transaction,
may be introduced into
the other.
On the question offraud
also, the rem-

Our friends, Messrs. Robert Murray & Co. mer- edy at law
chants in New York, having determined to enter large. scmplte.
ly into the .purehase of rice, and other articles of, your only groun
equitable jthere, of
produce in Charleston, but
jurisdiction
• being entire strangers
•
they have applied to us for letters of introduction to our tedico ery
friend. In consequence of rinch, we do ourselves. the of lacts solely
the
pleasure of introducing them to your correspondence as within
ktowledge of"
the utmost the Defcha house on whose integrity and punctuali
dant, and th
dependence may be placed, they will write you the na- Defenidanrb~v
ture of their intentions, and you may be assured of their his answer
complying fully with any contract or engagements they discloses no
such the
facts,Plainmay enter into with you.-The friendship we have for and
these gentlemen., induces us to wish you will renlr tif'supports
by
them every service in ybur power, at the same lime hIsclaun
vdencei
we fitter ourselves the correspondence will prove a mu- Ins own posunaidec
session
by the confes.

txaf benefit.

We are, with sentiments of esteem,

Dear Sir,
Your most obedient servants,
CLARK & NIGHTINGALE."

sons
f t,
]Defendant,
the PlaintiTf
should
be dismssed rim
the Court of

Chancery and

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RU5SLI

Jromdence, 21st January, 1796.

V..

".A'atianiet.Teussei, Esa.

CLARK"S
EX'RS

~DEAR SIP,

permitted to'
assert ils
rights in a

tib

We wrote you yesterday, a letter of recommendain f'avor of Mlessrs. Robert Murray

Co.-We
ouit of law, have noyw to request that you will render &
them every

one person
with the debt
of another, the
undertaking
mustbe .lear

assistance' ily
your powers.-Also that you will, immediatelv on the receipt of tlus. vest the whole of what
funds
you have of ours in your hands, in rice on the bestterms
you can. If you are not ii cash for the sales of the
and explicit-,
Itis the duty China and Nankins, perhaps you may be able to raise
oflim who
the money from the Bank, until due, or purchase the
gives credit
to Another
rice upon a credit, till such time as you are to be in
upon the re- cash fot them,, the truth is, we expect rice will rise, and
ponsibiEty or we want to improve the amount of what property we
uridertkng
of a third per- can muster i n Charleston, vested in that article, at the
SOn, immedicurrent mrice, or Mr. Nightingale is now at Newport,
atelto gv
notie tohe where it is probable he will write you on the subject.
latter ofthe
e~tcnt of his
We are, dear sip,

engagements.
A traudalent
recommenda-

Your most obedient servants,

lion, Vill

suwctthe

CLARK & 1tIGHTINGALE."

person giving
it, to the
damages,sustaned by the

The bill stated, that in Fetnuary,1796, Jonathan Russell,, arrived in Charleston, from New York, bringing
person trust- a letter of tredit from the house of Joseph & William
sgto it.
A' answer, Russell, of Providence, with whom the Complamant had
resonslve to only a slight acquaintance, but believed them to be in
in
evine
evidence
favor of the

good credit.

That Jonathan Russell informed the Complainant,

Defendant.
A,
misrepreA stisreprf

that -whenJhe left New York, he was authorized by R.
the solidity of M. & Co. to say, that they would forward to hIn at
,seerchautile
Charleston, letters of guarantyfrom their friends, Clark
house
made
b

tinderamst
take without
of the
riot,

&f ightingale. of Providence, addressed to the Complainant, and that he expected soon to receive tilem.

any interest
or fraudulent
retention,
will

That he soon afterwards, presented to the Complainnot suiaman ant, the before mentioned letters of Clark & Nightaction, altho' ingale, of the 20th and 21st of January, 1796, and that
the Plaihtiff confidiig in the responsibility and integrity of C. & N.
may have sxeffeted damage and mithe purity and simplicity of their views, he in-

FEBRUARY TEM :180
diirsed'the bills in question, amounting in tl. whole to RussErL
3,8861 10s 8d sterling.
v.
That Clark .& Nightingale, knew. that the house of "xRs.R. M. & Co. began business without capitali und.r
then' patronage, and were supported 'by their credit, by reason of
and that in the year 1795, it was found requisite, III such misreNew -York and Boston, where the house of R. M. & Co. i-esentautoli.
A"merdmu
chiefly did business, thattheir bills of-qxchange, 1n or- who indor(s
der to their being negotiated an those places, should the bills of
have the indorsement of C. & N. and even then it was ""thtr Upo
necessary they should be drawn for very small sums.
the guaranty
_

ofa third,
cnnot, (upon

That the advauces and responsibilities of the house of the insolvency
C. and N. for that of R. M. and Co. were originally of tle princn.
predicated chiefly upon their personal honor and ante.- ""I of the
rity, and afterwards continued upon the assurances of guaranty,)
R. M. & Co. that in case of disastrous events, they resortto z
should be secured by a priority of indenritv And created bv
Vie principal
,that upon like assurances C. and N. aLgreed to aid p,. zdebtor
for th
M. & Co. with funds and credit to enable them to car- ,demnitv f
ry ou the Charleston speculation which had been con-, forthe
hear,--nt%
awaoz)
certed between them, and had agreed to give themn a whih ti
letter of credit and guaranty to the Complainant; and guaranty
if the letters sent, did not in legal construction, amount
ti,,le
us-rto such, (which the Complainant does not admit) it must son tor whos
have arisen either from the Defendant, Clark, acciden-. trust
b-efitI's creaa
tally pennmg the letters in terms that did not quite ted. whoi
be. the
ul.
come up to the idea intended by himself; (in which .ae to
timate
recetv.
it woul be contrary ta equity and good conscience, rofraoaev.
that lie should be permitted to avail hmself of such ac-W sustain a
cident to the inIttry of the Complainant,) or from the suit
inequ,tv
"o have it paid
terms being ar d.] and fraudulentgy contrived by the arirectly to
Defendants, Clark, to give to the Complainant the iam- himsel
When the
pression he intended, and yet by secret reservation to frantv is
insolvent, a
leave a door open for is own escape.
Court ot equ..
ly€"will not

That the deceased partner of the Defendant, (Nigt- deetil toe
angale,) in his life time, confessed, that the douse of money, raiS.
C. & N. was bound by their letters to indemnify the indemnityj
be paid to
Complainant % and that Clark has offered to compro- to
hunmwithout
.m1se.

security that
the debt to

The bill further states, that the recommendations of the prirsl
le house of tL M. & Co. given by C. & N. werefalla- r. eatisfied,

SUPRemp, COURT U. S.
and unwarranted,.covenous, and deceiffid, and were
v.
made in consequence of a concerted plan, to rut R. M. &
ciu K's Co. into possession of large property, upon credit, to give
nmx'Es. the chayfce in the first instance of great profits to that
house, in case the speculation should be successful, andrhisnot
Court
wvill
make finally, Whether successful or not, to bring to the hahds
afinal decree, of C. & N. large reimbursements from the proceeds of
upon the.e- property so to be acquired, and tha accordingly, shortrtsofthee,
unless allper ly after, it was known in America, that the house of
.,less aae
.,iM. Co. must fall, the Defendant, Clark, availed
essentiallyInhimself
of the private stipulations before alluded to, by
terested, are
made parties
obtaining from that house, the greater part of theirproto the sult, perty, including the proceeds of the rice purchased upnithosgh
e.qus

ome

ot thaose per-

on the credit of the Complainant's indorsements.

sons are not

Vithm the
That J. B. Murray, who.was qamed a trustee, being
;l,urTtion
lCiofrt. of a citizen of New York, could not be compdlled to
ap-

pear in the Circuit Court, at Rhode Island, and therefore,Is not made a party
The Complainant exhibited copies of five deeds from
'R.3. & Co. assigning their property to the Defendant,
Clark--viz one dated 23d March, 1798-one 21th
March,-1798-two dated 22d of March, 1799-and one
3ist of May, 1800, and called for the originals.
The bill avers, that the house of R. M. & Co. has
been duly declared bankrupt, ,and discharged-that the
assignee. under the commission, are resident in New
York, and could not be made parties to this bill, and
that in facty there was nothing left to assign to themthe previous assignments to the Defendant, having
transferred the whole.
That Ioseph and William Russell, assigned away all
their property, so that the Complainant cannot enforce
against them, the judgment at law, which he had obtained upon their letter of credit.
That ii the lecd of the 9.th of March, 1798, among.
the uses to which the assigned property is to be applied,
is the following-viz. "Also for the sum or sums,
"6which the said Clark & Nightingale, have paid or are
,Gliablo to pay on a suit commenced agiunst them, by
"FN,
athamel Russell, of Charleston., South Carolina, for

ffEBRUARY TEII

82.

6 amount of certain bills of exchange, there draw in ItussELL
T.
Shis favor by Jonathan Russell, of New York, for the
61amount of three thousand nihe hundred and inuety- cLAR's
"eight pounds seven shillings arid two pence sterling, Ex'Rs.
And M a subsequent part of the
",or thereabouts."
same deed, another use declared is, ",to retain, and pay
" to Joseph & William Russell, the amourit that shall be
"recovered and paidfrom them to Nathaniel Russell, of
c Charleston, m South Carolina, upon account of a let"ter of credit to him, given by the said Joseph & Wil"liani Russell, in favor of Jonathan Russell," &c.
The Complainant further states, that although, lie is
unable to compel the payment fi'om Joseph & William
Russell, by reason of their having assigned away all
their effects, yet William, who has survived Joseph, refuses to assent, or affoifd any aid in converting ifiose
funds to the relief of the Complainant, and the Defendant has the use of the property for an indefinite time,
and refuses to account therefor to the Complainant.
Hefurther charges, that C. & N. were dormant copartners with R. M. & Co. in the Charleston speculation-that R. M. & Co. were, at the time of the recommendation from the C)mplainant, deeply involved in
debts, which they had not the means of di~chargng,
that their credit was fictitious, and the fiction created
and kept up by C. & N. who were privy to their transactions, and who knew that the representation they made
"wasfalsc, andfraudhlent.
The bill seeks a discovery of the fands of R. M. & Co.
in the hands of the Defendant, Clark, and of the trusts
upon which lie holds them, and the manner in which he
has applied them or any part of them, and prays that
the,intention of the parties as to the guaranty, may be
enforced-that the proceeds of the rice purchased by
means of the Complainants indorsements may be applied to his relief-that the Defendant, Clark, may be
compelled to execute the trust reposed in him, and to
apply to his indemnification, the funds set apart for the
indemnification of Clark & Nightingale, and of Joseph
and William Russell, and that he may have such other

relief. as Ins case may require,.and be entitled to.
i
VOL. VIi.

SUPREME COURT U. S.,
The deed of assignment of the 23d of March, 1798,
transferred all the property and effects of the firm of
CLARK'S R. I. & Co. in the United States, to the Defendant.
zx'Xs. Clark. and i. B. Murray, to pay the balances due them,
and to such other creditors, as R. M. & Co. should nomnate witln twelve months, reserving to them also,
the power to appoint new trustees instead of Clark and
J. B. Murray, if they should think proper. Tns assignment was made expressly subject to certain prior
liens on certain parts of the property, which are particularly set forth, one of which was an assignment to
Loomis and Tillinghast, of a policy on certain goods laden on board the ship Jefferson, and a policy on goods
on board the ship Butler-and four promissory notes of
Mott and Lawrence, amounting to 6,460 dollars, the
proceeds of which were to be applied, first to indemnify
and secure Loomis and Tillinghast, for a debt due to
them, and for responsibilities they had, or were about
to incur-and out of the surplus to pay to Joseph and
Williamn Rnssell, of Providence, all such monies as they
should be liable to pay, as guaranty to the Defendant.
This assignment was afterwards transferred by Loomis
and Tillinghast to Clark in consideration of 60,000 dollars, of R. H. & Co's. notes, indorsed by L. & T
given up to them by Clark.
RussELL

10.

The deed of the 2zth of March, 1798, contained an
express power in R. BI. & Co. to revoke or alter the
directions and appointments therein contained, and to
make other appointments and give other directions,
within twelve months from that date. In pursuance
of which power, they did, by an indenture tripartite,
dated the 21st of March, 1799, between R. M. and Co.
of the first part-the Defendant Clark, and 3. B. Mur-

ray of the second part, and the Defendant and J. H.
Murray and other creditors, of the third part, revoke
and annul the deed of the 24th of March, 1798, and
substituted no other trust for the indemnificatiol of the
Defendant, Clark, against his liability to the Complaiant.
The deed of the 22d of March, 1799, which declared
the new trusts, under which the Defendant, Clark and
J. B. Murray should hold the assigned property, die, rects them to pay fto William Russell, as surviving

FEBRUARY TERM i8iM
cc partner of the firm of Joseph and William Russell, aussI.I,.

T.
amount that shall be paid by them on a judgment
", recovered against them by Nathaniel Russell, of Char- CLARK'S
"leston, in South Carolina, for the amount of 39981 7s Ex.'Rs.
"2d sterling in bills of exchange guaranteed by him. by
"the said Joseph and William Russel in favor of the
"drawer Jonathan Russell. And the said parties of
"the first part do hereby order and direct the said par"ties of the second part, to allow ana pay, in manner
"befoie mentioned, to the parties of the tird part, in
"addition to the claims herein before admitted, all char,ges of suit and other expenses paid upon the said se"veral claims together with interest due thereon, pay"able in like manner with the claims as herein before
,recited."
"',the

This deed also contained a power of revocation and
of making new appointments of trust.
On the 31st of May, 1800, (the day before the bankrupt law of the United States was to go into operation)
R. M. & Co. made their final declaration of trust, under
the power reserved in their fbrmer deeds, and expressing an intention to alter and add to the trusts formerly
declared, but without expressing any intention of revoking any of them, they designatefive successive classe's
of creditors to be paid in the order in whli they are
named, but neither of those classes included an indemnity to the Defendant, Clark, or to William Russell,
against their liability to the Complainant.
The Defendant, Clark, in his answer, admits his letters of the 20th and 21st of Januarv, 1796, to the Complainant, but does not admit tliat the Complainant at that
time considered them as letters of credit, or guaranty,
that he indorsed the bills upon the faith of those letters.
He avers that they were intended only a letters of nitroduction and recommendation, and not as letters of
credit or of .guaranty, and that the house of R. M. &
Co. was then in good credit. He denies that the house
of C. & N. had any interest in the purchases made in
Charleston by Jonathan Russell. He does not admit
that any bills of R. M. & Co. with the indorsement of
C. & N. were negotiated in New York. He denies that
lie had any reason to suspect that the credit of the

SUPREME COURT U S.
xtussFLL

v
CLARK'S
Ex'Rs.

house of R. M. & Co. was ficticious and not real-he

denies that C. & N. attempted to give them a false cre.
dit to deceive the public or any person. He avers that
he as well as the house of C. & N. had full faith and
confidence in the responsibilit and solvency, ,the honor and integrity of the house of R. M. & Co. and had
no agreement, or understanding with them for their
indemnity or security in case of'any disastrous event,
of which he had no apprehension. He denies that C.
& N. ever made any agreement to aid M. M. & Co.
in raising funds for the speculation in Carolina produce-and that they ever asked from C. & N. any
letter of guaranty to go or be sent to Charleston-he
denies that they ever promised such letter of guaranty, or gave R. M. & Co. any authority to instruct their
agent to assure any person that such letter of guaranty
should be furnished by them. Hie denies that the letters of 2o0th & 21st of January were designed, or written in artful and ambiguous terms with intent to deceive. lHe does not admit that his partner, Nightingale,
acknowledged that they were letters of guaranty or
that the,house of C. & N. were bound thereby to indemnify the Complanants.
lHe avers ihat C. & N. never asked, and R. M. & Co.
never ofibred, any security for their responsibilities until after the failure of B. M. & Co. was publicly known
in the United States. He admits the deeds and assignments to himself, and J. B. Murray, as set forth in the
Complainants bill, and admits the receipt of large
sums of money, a part of which has been -applied, and
part remains to be applied to the objects of the trust.
He states that since the execution of the deeds of assignmeht to him and J. B. Murray, Robert Murray has
been discharged as a bankrupt, ulider the law of the
United States, and the assignees under that commission
have brought suit in equity in New York against this
defendlant, and J. B. Murray and R. M. & Co. claiming
an account of the assigned property and praying that it
may be transferred to them, which suit is still pending.
He declares his belief that the assigned property will
be sufficient to 41'scharge all the appropriations made by
the deeds of trust, and also the whole claim due to the
Complainant, but denies that it is liable in his hands
therefor.

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
William Russell, in his answer, admits the guaranty, nussLi
and judgment; and the insolvency of the house of JoV.
seph and William Russell, He states that he has no CLAI'S
knowledge that I. M. & Co. ever conveyed any proper- Ex'Rs.
ty to the Defendant, Clark, and J. B. Murray in trust
to indemnify him, but if there be.any such conveyance
he is willing that the Complainant should have the
benefit thereof.
There was evidence that bills of exchange for 15,500
sterling drawn in eighteen sets, by R. M. & Co. and indorsed by Clark and Nightingale, were sold in Boston,
in December, i795, and January, 1796, and derived
credit chiefly from their indorsement.
There was also evidence to prove that the house of
R. M. & Co. were in good credit until after January,
1796.
The decree, in the Court below, was rendered, by
consent, against the Complainant who brought his writ
of error.
DExTE., for the Plaintiffin

IError,contended,

I. That the letters themselves, under the circumstances of the case, imposed a liability upon Clark and
Nightingale to indemnify the Plaintiff-and
2. Thliat the Defendant, Clark, was. liable by reason
of the funds which he held in trust for the Plaintiff's
indemnification.

I. In support of the first point lie contended, first,
that th letters themselves created an absolute responsibility.-2d. That if they did not of themselves create
an absolute responsibility, yet they contained -a direct
affirmation of a fact which the Defendant must show to
be true, or must prove that he was himself deceivedand 3d. That the evidence shows that the affirmation,
contained in the Defendant's letters, was not true, and
that he was guilty of such negligenceand falshood, as
yrill render him liable to indemnify-the Plaintiff.
. The Defendant is absolutely bound by these letters.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rUSSELL They contain an unqualified assertion of afact-tlh
T.
responsibility and integrity of R. M. & Co. In other
o.ARIC's cases, if a man will assert positively a fact, and request
ux'ns. another person to act upon the faith of such assertion,
le is bound to make good his assertion, or to compensate the injury which he has sustained -ho placed
confidence in such assertion.

Thus ifa person covenant that lie has good title-he
is bound to make it good or to repair the damage sustained by his defect of title. This is the case of a covenant under seal.
So in a policy of insurance, the positkve assertion f
a fact
is a warranty, and he who makes it is bound to
prove it to be true. This is a case pot under seal.
In the present case, it is more reasonable that C. &
N. should sustain the loss, because they -volunteered the
affirmation, and with a view to induce the Plaintiff to
give credit to R. M. & Co. Words spoken upon enqutry made for information will not bind, if lie who
spoke them was himself deceived.
But the present case is notlikethat, it was not a sudden
answer to be made on enquiry-itwas a deliberate affirmation, in writing, made to one who they knew would
place confidence in their representation, of a fact which
they had the means of knowing, and which they ought
to have known, before they asserted it in such a manner.
It was not a letter of friendship-but of business. It
requested the Plaintiff ,to render them every assistance
in his powzver ;" that is, to aid them with his credit.
if a man receive services upon request, he is bound
to remunerate .them. Is there in reason, justice, or
law, any difference between services rendered, and responsibilitiesvicurred? In the present case, C. & X. not
only requested the Plaintiff to lend lis credit to R. M. &
Co. but told him he might be assured of their complying
fully with any contract or engagement they might enter
into with him. If the woras had4een ",we assure you,"
&c. there could have been no doubt of their responsibilitv But when they say ",you may be assured,"
&c. it is evident they meant the same thing. It was

FEBRUARY TERM i812.
their assurance, whether expressed in the one way or nussIUL
the other-and it was their assurance upon winch the
T.
Plaintiff acted.
CLUMS
E.X'RS.

2d. But if these words are so artfully selected, that
they would not in a Court of law bind the Defendant,
yet if they were calculated to deceive, and intended to
induce the Plaintiff to give credit to R. M. & Co.-if
they were such as between merchants, were understood
to guaranty the credit of the persons recommended,
they will have that effect in equity.
C. & N. ought to have been assured of the fact of the
solidity of the house of R. M. & Co. before they stated
it so positively
They ought to have enquired of them the state of
their affairs. It is not sufficient for them to say that
they did not know but the fact was so. If they were not
certain, they ought to have stated the simple truth-that
it was a young house--had been conducting business for
some time and sustained a good character. That they
themselves had given them credit to a considerable
amount and that they were still their debtors. If C. & N
had written thus, as they ought to have done, the Plaintiff would not have given them credit-le would have
continued to hold the Vice until he had security-and
would not have given it up, but upon the faith of letters
which in his opinion would brad C. & N. to indemnify
him.
They must lave known that they were not justified
in stating the facts as they did. There were facts within their knowledge which ought to have excited their
suspicions of the credit of H. M. & Co.-particularly
the fact that their bills could not be "sold without the
indorsement of C. & N. and then only in small sunis.
The knowledge of the great losses of R. M. & Co. by
captures in 4794, and the fact that they began businessL
without capital, ought to have made C. & N. more
careful. That C. & N. trusted them, is not evidence
that they believed them solid. They had a personai
confidence that R. '. -& Co. would secure them by
asstgumneits in case of difficulty, as in fact, they did,

SUPREME COURT U. R.
RUSSELL

v.
CLARK'S

.x'ns.

2. As to the trust. It is objected that the assignments
are to the Defendant, Clark & J. B. lMurray jointly)
and that the latter is not made a Defendant to this bill
But lie was not within the jurisdiction of the Court, and
by the act of Cpngress lie could not be made a
Defendant, unless lie had been found in Rhode Island.
By the practice of Courts of equity, they will not dismiss a bill for want of parties who cannot ber served
with process. 2. .ttk. 5i0. Darwent v. Walton,
Another reason for charging Clark alone, is that he
has recived by far the greater part of the funds of R.
M. & Co. and it is a principle in equity that each trustee shall answeir only for the effects which he himself
received. Digest of chancery cases, 182. i. r Will. 81.
Fellows -v. OMitchel. 3. Atk. 583. Leigh v. Barry.
But there is a stronger ground for charging Clark
alone. He received from Loomis and Tilinghast, an
assignment of funds which they held in trust, to pay to
.Joseph and William Russell all such monies as they
should be liable to pay as guaranty to the Plaintiff.
The Defendant, Clark, received a transfer of this assmgnireit from Loomis and Tillinghast, with full notice
of the trust, and is thereby bound to execute it. It was
a trust substantially for the benefit of the PlaintiffThere were no funds of Joseph and William Russell, or
of either of them, to which lie could resort to satisfy his
judgment against them. If he had recovered the money
from them they might have resorted to this fund, and
circuity of action, will make it lia.
cquity, which avoids
Plaintiff.
ble directly to the
C. LEE, suggested that there was no allegation in
the bill to which these facts are pertinent.
Jpx R. The Defendant, is charged with having
received such assignments as make hun liable as- trustee to the Plaintiff.
These facts appear in the exhibits, which axe referred
to in the bill and make part of it. The bill prays. for
general relief-and under such a prayeri the Courtwill
give such relief as the facts of the case will warrant.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i,
IxEE, mnra.
This case presents tivo .questions1. Whether the-Plaintff's, demand'sball be satisfied
out of the fundg if Clark - .Nightingak-and

2. Whether it shall lie satisfied out of the funds ,of
R,' .' Co.
l. Are Clark & Nightingale liable out of their own
estate'?
If so,, it can only be. upon the letters of' the 20th and
21st of January, 1796, either because they create a liability at law-or because they contain a fraudulent misrepresentation. Jf the letters do not create a liability at
law, a Court df Equity -will not exteiiil them beyond
their legal import.-If they do create a liability at law,
a Court of Equity, has no jiirisdiction.
None, of the'parties considered them as letters of guiaranty, until it was suggested by Jonathan Russell, inhis
letter to Nathaniel Russell, of the 11th of July, 1796i.
The Plaintiff himself, although he wroti six letters to
the Defendant, after he indorsed the bills, and before.notice of their dishonor, yet never once mentioned that he
had indorsed such bills upon the credit of C. & N.This negligence to give them notice.that he had done
so, is a complete discharge to them, upon thesame.principles, as the want of notice discharges the drawer of a
bill of xchange.
'The'bill states certain facts from *hich slight inferences are drawn, that C. & N. intended to guaranty the
Plaintiffs indorsement of the bills ; but the answer of
Clark, 6xpr"essly denies all those-iiferences, and all intention of becoming.responsible, and all private assurances of uldemnity from I. M. '& Co.
Although no external proof can be added to "theletters, or addiuced to explain them, yet, the answer of the
Defendant, who is called uponto answer as to Ins lijention, is evidence. It is made evidefice by the P1 inti
laving called for it in his bill.
1.2
VOL. VII

---

SUPREME CORT U; -S.
tWJsWL
The opinion of this 'Court upon the construction of
Tx
the letters in this case, as reported in 3. Da/t. 4241, 4-

thiough not conclusive because it-was not upon the point
V,3its. on which the Court decided the cause, yet will bb res-

OLAUles
-=--

-peeted.

The Chief Justice, there states, that the ma-

jorit, of the Court-inclined to the opinion, that the letters did not. of themselvbs, import an undertaking, or
uara ity. To support this opwion, Mr. Lee referred
the cases cited in 3.Da!. 120. 421.
But it is said, that tie Defendant is iiable by reason
of the misrepresentation. If so, it is a clear case at law,
and not in 6quity.
But the allegationis not supported by the evidence.
The- representation was true. R. M. & Co. were a
house of ihtegrity and punctuality-and were in good
credit,

In order to charge'the party at law, (and afortior in
equity,) the representation must be false. 3. T. R. 51,
Tasley -v.
Freean--2.Esp. 92.-But here the evidence

proves the representation to be true-and if it had been
false, it would have been wholly a case at law.
2. As to the ground of trust. The Plaintiff relies upon three trust funds. I. The indemnity to Clark and
iightingal. :. .TheIndemnity t9 Joseph and William
Russell. 3. The trust fqnd in the hands of Loomis and
Tillinghast.

I. The indemnity to Clark & Nightingale, was only
afainst the suit at law then depending, which'has been
since. abandoned by the Plaintiff, andthe fund withdrawn, and thedeettravked'under the power of revocation Which it ceatnied.
"
2. The .indemnitr :to Joseph and William Russell,
was only for. what they should pay. They -never did,
and never will. pay any thing. It was a provision foil
thezr benefito not for that of the Pazfiff" Equality is
equity. Iithe ilauitifi'clamis a priority of payment, he
must shoi a strict right. The indemnity is upon the
condition-of a release, which J. &\W Russell haye never given. But the deeds under which this indemnity is

FZBRUARY TERM -8t2.
claimed, were revoked by thoie of March., 1799,
May, L80$b.

:iid missniZ
I.

-3. As to the trust deed to Loomis and Tillinghast;the evidence respecting it is not admissible. It -ppears
only in a copy of the examination of one of-the partners
of the house of R. M. & .Co. bef6re the "commnssioners
of bankrupt, certified by the clerk and judge of the district Court, which is hot competent evidence.
Nothing in the bill alludes to this deed, so that Clar
had no opportunity of answering respecting it. Besides
it appears that the amount of nidemnity claimed by
Loomis and Tillinghast, which was- to be first satisfied
before the trust could arise'in favor of Joseph and William Russel was for R. M. & Co's. notes'to the amount
of 60,000 dollars, indorsed by Loomis apd Tillinghast,
and- the property pledged to them doea not appear to
exceed 28,000 dollars. Clark delivered up to L.,and
T. the notes for 60,000 dollars, and received the property amounting to 8.OUO only. Clark had a right
to stand in the shoes of L. and T. and claim the- 60,000
dollats, in preference to J. and W Russell% so that;lu
fact there was no fund assigned fofthe benefit of the,
latter. There was no stlrplus after satisfying the claini
of Loomis and Tillinghast.
'J. B. Murrayought to be- a party, The Plaintift'
has no right to call upon one of the trustees only to answer for the whole fund, when he has received only a
part. If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States is so limited, that it cannot compel the
appearance of all the parties, let the Plaintiff apply to
the State Court. The case of Dar-cent and Walter,
5. T. R. 500 applies to 'the State, Courts, but not to
Courts of limited jurisdiction, as the Circuit Courts of
the United" States are.
The assignees of the bankrupt, Murray, oqZght also to
be made parties, for they have. an interest inthe residuum.
The Plaintiff also ought to have obtained a judlgmerit andfierifacias agmnst'R. J. 4- Co. before he could
call for a. discovery of their effects. f. Vernon, 309.
Augell -. Draper,-3.Atk. 200, 8hkrleg v. Watts.

s -.Rs.
-

WSUPREME
VIssUi,
v.

COURT U. S.

Thp want of lproper parties, may be 6bjected at the

hearing. S. Atk. 111. Jones "v. .ones.-2. .tk. ko. Bar4xA2Ris went -o. Walton,
X'RSo
JoNEs, on the same stde.-ist. As to the law of the case.
This Court, as a Court of Equity, has nojurisdiction
upon any ground stated .in the bill.-It states that the
letters amount to a guaranty, but that the Plaintiff has
failed m three suits at law. If there be a remedy at
law, and no fratid, nor defect of evidence, it is no case
in equity. Nor is there any equitable jurisdiction on
the ground of construction of the letters. They must
have the same construction in equity as at law. The
confession that the Plaintiff has no legal remedy, is a
confession that the Defendant is not bound by the contract. Iitford, iii.A89. Nor does the ground of fraud
alone, give an equitable jurisdiction. A Court of law
is as competenf as a Court of Equity, to decide a case
of fraud. But it is said, there is a different remedy in
a Couit 1f Equity. This is Vue. in some cases. When
the fraud is on the part of the Complainant, a Court of
Equity willrefuse its aid ,-when on the part oftheDe-'
fendaut, it may sef aside a deed obtained by fraud., but
it wili giTe no remedy in damages for a fraud, it will
give no indemnity for a deceit by a third party. Where
these are the object- of the suit, the remedy is at law
where the damages are assessed by a jury .Pric. in
Cl. 1,47
It is true, that mistako and accident, are grounds of
equitable juriiction, but the mistake or accident,
must be specifically stated, the accident must he maiefest, and the evidence clear. The Court will then cQrrect the instrument, and make it what it ought to have
been. 1. FRz. 318, 319. Rankle v. Roy. Bx. ass. Comp.
3. Br C. C. 451. Burt v. Barlow.-i. fPz. jun. 59; Doran v. Ross,-zd. I7l, Payne -. Collier zd. 364, Smitlb
v. MIaitland.
2., As to. the construction of ,the letters, per se, and
the effect of the evidence in regard to them.
They do not imnport a contract on their face.-A 1eJ,
ter of credit is well understood among iaerchanut,
[t

FEBRUARY TERM 1819.
must m6lude a request to advance moiley. No declara. uss i"
tion that a man is trust-worthy, is sufficent.-The
v.
words of the letters are to be taken in their usual sig!ti- CXKAAf9S
fication.-", You mag be assured," means only you may Ex Rs.
be certain-it is only an affirmation of a fact. It coitains no promise. It is immaterial how false or fraudulent the affirmation may be, it is but an affirmation, and
does not constitute a contract.
No action will lie against a mafi upon his mere affirmation that he will give his daughter a portion.-1.
Vin. 26i, Winn v. Talbot.-There must befraud accompained by actual damage, to support an action on the
case, for a deceit, against a stranger to the contract.
S. T. 1. 5i, Pasley v. Freeman. 2. East. 92, Hayeraft
,v. Creasy.-Itis not law, that the Defendant is liable, if
he did:not use due deligence to ascertain the trutb.-But
the evidence shows that the representation was farly
and 7wnestly made, and therefore whether true or false,
is wholly immaterial. If the Plaintiff was deceived,, it
must have been either by his own mistake of the purport
of the letters, or by the assertions of Jonathan Russell.
R. M. & Co. in their letters to the Plaintiff, call them
letters of mntroduction and recommendation, not letters of
credit or guaraity. There is no evidence to connect the
representations, or assertions of Jonathan Russell, with
C. & N.- le was not their agent, nor can they be responsible for any thing he may have said.
There is no evidence of mwafides, but strong.evidence
of the contrary. When one merchant speaks -ofthe credit
or integrity of another, he speaks only as to general reputation. In the present case, this general reputation
is fully proved. The burden ofproof lies on the Plaintiff, to show some act or information to the contrary,
which came to the knowledge of the Defcndant.-Fraud
is never to he presumed. As to the captures in i79 or
i794f, it does not appear that the vessel and cargoes were
not insured. As those losses had happened several years
before the letters of recommendation, and as the house
of R. M. & Co. for aught that appears, had 'tood unshaken thereby, those losses tbemelves seem to be the
best evidence of the stability of that house.
As to the Trust. Thbis is a ground of complaint to-

SUPREMIB COURT U. S.,
tally- distinct from the question of liability .under the
contract. The Complainant seems to rely upon some
cAR's specific lien on the rice itself, or its proceeds But when
x'R s. lie leltthe rice go out of his hands, upon being satisfied
of the solidity of the house of R. M.,& Co.-he could not
recall it-he lost all claim to a seoific lien.

gV~sELji

"

The evidence respecting the assignment to Loomis and
Tillinghast, is not such as this Court can notice. There
is only a certificate of the clerk of theDistrict Court, that
it is a copy of a paper filed in that Court by Robert Murray? upon. .1lis examination inder a commission of Bankruptcy. It is not proved by the oath of any person who
had seen the original, nor is it mentioned in the bill, nor
confessed in the answer. The Plaintiff can make no
title to a specific lien on this fund.
The other trusts in favor of C. & N.-and of Joseph
& William Russell, were expressly revoked by the subsequentdeeds, and the Plaintiff does not claim as a general creditor,
The Plaintiff must, in his bill, show a title ,-an interest, and a right to call upon the Defendants. There
must be some privitv between them, and all persons
interested in'ther trusts, must be made parties. ..Aftford
31, 13,6, ill, 220, 2. Br C. G. Burv. Dennet.
If there are no allegations in-he prior part of the bill
to justify the interrogatories in the subsequent part, the
Defendart is not bound to answer them.-The Plaintiffhad no right to call for a discovery of general assets,
'ho was confined -to the funds alleged in Ins bill. This is
fatal as to the trust of Loomis and Tillinghast,-anit
another objection is, that suits are now pending in New
York against the present Defendants and others, calling
for an account of these very funds.
If the Courts of the United States have not power to
call all. parties before them, it,is a good objection to their
,proceedinq, m the case. The Plaintiff should have applied to the ,hte Courts, whic.have power. Itis true
that each trustee is only liable for what he received, but
that-is no reason why the coztrustee should not be made.
a party

FEBRUARY TERM I&L2.
D xTER Abn P B. KEY, in rmpy;

1Ussi*,
V.

Itis true that there ought to be before the-Courta1 c I.xK's
the parties who maybe necessary to enable the Court to :EkRs.
do coynplete justice, but the books -also add the proviso,
that they be within the jurisdiction of the Court. Under
the agreement to bring this cause up to this Court for a
final decision, without an argument in the Court-below,
it was not expected that it would now be delayed by the
allegation of the want of proper parties.
1. As to the liability of the Defendant upon the letters-this case differs essentially from that of.Haycraft
and Creasey, in 2. East. 92.-In that case it appeared
that the Defendant himself, was grossly duped and deceived, and his assertion wasfounded upon his belief only.
If this hafl not been the case he would have been liable.
There is no difference in morality between the assertion
of a falsehood, and an affirmation, without any knowledge on the subject, with intent to induce the Plaitiffto
give credit. We have called upon the Defendant to
show that he was himself deceived. This he has not
done, but has shewn facts tending to excite his suspicions, and which ought to have put him more upon his
guard. It is doubtful, whether the case of Haycraft and
Creasey, be law. It was decided by two doubting Judges
against the clear and decided opinion of the Chief Justice, supported by great strength of argument. The opinmon of Grose, is clearly untenal e.
In the case of Paslky v. Freeman, 3. 2"1. i, the only doubt was, whether the only remedy was not in Equi•ty, and whether it could be supported upon the strict
principles of the common law. But that doubt was
overruled, and a legal remedy established. But it is notdecided that there is no relief in Ecluity Courts of
Chancery, do give relief in some cases, where relief may
also be had atlaw. Thus;'when a case of equitable jurisdiction is blended with a case at law-Qr where the
remedy at' law is not complete, or where a Court of
Equity once gets jurisdiction of the case upon proper
grounds, although there may be a--kemedy at law, the
Court of Equity, will retain its jurisdiction.
Although this cause lias:been several times argued,

O
S

S PREME COURT U S.

OK='Kh,'&et this is the first time the question has been made,
nVns. whether the Defendant, Clark, is -not .liable. upon the
ground of misrqpresentation.
The Plaintiff was not bound to give C. & N. ,notice
that he,had indorsed the bills of R. M. & Co. It would
have been indelicate both with regard to them and to
C & N. I1t was time enough to give notice when the
bills were dishonored.
The conveyance of cest ut que trust will be respected
in a Court of equity W Russell, by his answer, has
assigned the trust fund to the Plaintiff.
TPhe -pupposed objections to the trust of Loomis and
Tillinghastdo not exist. The bill calls upon the Defendant to set forth all the assignments and trust funds he
holds fiom R. M. & Co. and to produce the original
deeds, of whick copies are produced by the Plaintif,
and to declare on what trusts he holds the property assigned. The bill charges hin with holding funds in
trust for the Plaintiff. The recital, in one of the deeds
produced, leads to the trust of Loomis and Tillinghast,
which they assigned to the Defendant who 'had notice
of the trust, and without the knowledge of William Russell. The Defendant knew to whatthe recital alluded,
he knew of the trust in favor of Joseph and W Russell
and ought tM have stated it The notes 6f R. M & Co.
with the indorsement of Loomis and Tillinghast, which
the Defendant gave up to them in lieu of the property
assigned to them by R, M. and Co. were of no value.
They were notes which R. M. and Co. had given to
Clark in payment) and which they hadpaid by the assignment of other property so as to relieve L. and T.
k'rom their nidorsement-so that in truth'the whole funds
"vhich R. i. and Co. hdd assigned to L. and T. for their
indemnity, and for the indetnity of Joseph and W
Russell were appliable to the relief of the latter; ,and
ought to be applied to the indemnifica4ioil of the hamThe nafore of the speculation itself indicated that the
proceeds of the sales of the rice, were to constitute the
fund out of which the bills were to be paid which were
drawz to pay for Us purchase. The parties upon the

FEBRUARY TERM I82.
bills naturally looked to that fund as their principal se- Russ.i
curity. Tliis was known to the Defendant, Clark,, and
v.
with that knowledge he obtained possession of the pro- COAIi'S
ceeds of this very rice, for the purchase of which, the nx'is.
Plamtiff indorsed the bills. The Defendant did not, as
a stranger, get them innocently into his hands, but ohtamed those funds in consequence of his own misrepresentation as to the stability and integrity of the houge of
R. M. and Co. It is uilconscientious for him to retain
those funds under such cirumstances.
Jlarch 5th. A th judges being praent,
M nsIx,

ch.justice, delivered the following oliinon:

This is a suit m Chlancery institutel for the purpose
of obtiimng from the Defendants, payment of certain
bills of exchange drawn by Jonathan Russell, an agent
of Robert Murray & Co. and indorsed by Nathaniel
Russell, which bills were protested for non-payment,
and have since been taken up by the indorser. The
Plaintiff contends that the house of Clark & Nightin-.
gale had rendered itself responsible for these bills by
two letters addressed to him, one of the 20th and the
other of'the 21st of January, i796, on the faith of
which his indorsements, as he says, were made.
The letters are in these words-(See the preceiling
statement of thb case.)
Thie bill alleges that tiese letters bind Clark and
-Nightingale to pay to Nathaniel Russel any sum for
which he nght credit Robert Murray & Co. either because,
Ist. They do, in law, amount to a guaranty.-6r that,
2d, They were written Nith !i fraudulent inteht to bo
understood as a guaranty-or that,
3d. They contain a misrepresentation of ihe solidity
and character of the house-of Robert Muriay & Co.
Soon after the protest of these bills for non-payment,
Robert Murray & Co. failed and became bankrupts.
VOL. VIL
is

SUPREME COURT U. S.
nussziL Previous to their Bankruptcy they assigned a great

V.

proportion of their effects, including the cargoes for

CLA-1'S the purchase of which these bills were drawn, to John

iX'RS.

J. Clark-and John B. Murray-m trust. for Clark and
Nightingale, and for sundry other creditors and purposes mentioned in several trust deeds which are recited in the bill, and which appear in the record. The
Plaintiff claims to be paid his debt out of this fund.
The anAwer of John J. Clark was filed, and a certain William Russell, a.partner of the house of Joseph
and William Russell, who gave a letter of credit and
guarainty to the diawer of the bills indorsed by the
Plainfiff Nathaniel Russell, was made a party De,fendant.
Against Joseph and William Russell a judgment had been obtained by NAtlxanmel -Russell for the
amount of the bills indorsed by him, but they had become insolvent, and no part of this judgment had been
discharged.
Many depositions having been taken and sundry ex
hibits filed, a decree of dismission, without argument,
and profo ma was rendered in the Circuit Court for the
District of Rhode Island, and the cause comes into this
court by appeal from that decree.
It is contended by the Defendants, that the letters
wich have been recited create no liability on the part
of Clark and Nightingale, but are to be considered
merely as letters of introduction. Whatever may be
the construction of the letters, they insist that the Plauntiff, if intitled, to recover, has complete remedy at law,
and that a Court of Chancery can take no jurisdiction
of the cause.
It is believed to be unquestionable that a suit m
Chancery could not be sustained on these letters against
Clark and Nightingale, unless some additional circumstance rendered an application to this court necessary
The Plaintiff contends that sucl application is necessary, because there are a great variety of facts belonging to the trainsaction which pould not be introduced
into acourt (f law, or which would not avail him in

that court, but which are proper for the consideration
of a court of equity.

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
Because sone'of these facts rest within the knowledge
of the Defendants-and

RUSsELL

Because he capnot, at law, subject the trust fund .to
his clnim.
So far as respects the question whether these letters
constitute a contract of guaranty, there can be no dofubt
but that the construction in a court of law or a court of
equity must be precisely the same, and that any explanatory fact which could be admitted in the one court,
would be received in the other.
On the question of fraud the remedy at law is also
complete, and no case is recollected where a court ofequity has afforded relief for, an injury sustained, by the
fraud of a person who is no party to a contract induced
by that fraud.
It is true that if certain facts, essential to the merits
of a claim purely legal, be exclusively within the knowledge of the party against whom that claimis asserted,
he may be required, in a Court of Chancery,.to disclose
'those facts, and the court, being thus rightly in possession of the cause, Nyil proceed to determine the whole
matter in controversy But this rule cannot be abused
by being. ciployed 'as a mere pretext for bringing
causes, proper for a court of law, into a court of equity.
'If the answer of the Defendant discloses nothing, and
the Plaintiff supports his claim by evidence in.his own,
possession unaided by the confessions of the Defendant,
the established rules, limiting the jurisdiction of-courts,
require that he should be dismissed from the Court of
Chancery, and permitted to assert his rights .)n a court
of law.
It is also.'true, that if a claim is to be satisfied out of
a fund, -which is accessible only by the aid of a Court
of Chancery, application may be made, in the first instance, to that court, which will not require that the
claim should be first established in a courteo law.
In the case .under consuieration, the answer confesses
nothing. So far from furnishing any. evidence in suplport of the Plaintiff's claim, it dems, in the most full
ald explicit terms, the.whole equity of the bill.

T.

CLARK'S

x'iRs.

02
=ssF.LL

V.
MARK'S

x'ns.

SUPREIME ,COURT.'U S.

This ground of jurisdiction, therefore, is totally with-

drawn from the case.

lit remains to inquire whether the Plaintiff can be let
in to-claih on any part of the trust fund: and this depends principally on his clami being within any one of
the trusts declared.
The first trust deed, which was executed by Robert
Murray & Co. on the 23d day of March, 1798, is declared to be in trust to apply the monies arising froui
the trust property 6in payment and satisfaction of the
debts and balances which shall appear to be found to be
due and,owing from the said parties of the first part
(Robert Murray & Co.) to them the said John J.Clark
andJohn B. Murray (the-trustees) and to ,such other
of the creditors" of the said Robert Murray & Co. as
they should, by any instrument of writing, within twelve
months, appoint.
Itmay be doubted whether this declaration of trust
would be applicable to a collateral undertaking not,
at
the time, carried into judgment.
In the second deed, one of the trusts declared is, to
repay Clark and Nightingale for any sums they may
pay or be liable to pay under a suit at the time depending against them. That suit was dismissed.
Without deciding whether Russell could avail himself
of. this trust, having failed in the particular action then
depending, the court will proceed to inquire how far
Clark and -Nightingale were liable to the Plaintiff for
the debt due to him from Robert Murray & Co.
The law will subject a man, having no interest in the
transaction, to pay the debt of another, only when his
undertaking manifests a clear intention to bind himself
for that debt. Words of doubtful import ought not, it
is conceived, -to receive that construction. It is the duty
of the individual, who contracts with one man on the
credit of another, not to trust' to*ambiguous phrases and
strained constructions, but to require an explicit and
plain declaration of the obligation he is about to assume.
In their letter of the gOth, Clark and Nightingale mdi-

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.
cate no intention to take' any resp6nsibility on them- RUSSELr
selves, but say that Mr. Russell may be assured Robert
W.
Murray & Co. will comply fully with their engage- CLARK's
ments. In their letter of the 2ist they speak of the let- EX'Rs.
ler of the preceding day as -a letter of recommendation,
and, add " we have now to request that you will endeavor to render them every assistance in your power."
'How far ought this request to have influenced the
Plaintiff? Iught he to have considered it as a request
that he would advance credit or funds-for Robert Murray & Co, on the responsibility of Clark and Nightingale, or simply as a strong manifestation of the friendship of Clark and Nightingale for Murray & Co., and
of their solicitude that T.-Russell should aid their operations as far as his owi view of his interests would indude him to embark in the commercial transactions of a
house of high character, possessing the particular good
wishes of Clark and Nightingale?
It is certain that merchants are in the habit of recommending corredpondents to each other without meaning
to become sureties for the person, recommended, and
that, generally speaking, such acts are deemed advantageous to the person to whom the pirty is titroduced,
as well.as to him who obtains the recommendationThese letters are strong, but they contain no intimation of any intention of Clark and Nightingale to be.
come answerable for Robert Murray & Co., and they
are not destitute of expressibns alluding to fliat recipro.
city of benefit which results from the intercourse of
merchants with each other. " The friendship," say
they, in their letter of the 20th,,"we have for these
gentlemep, induces us t.owish you will ren.der them
every service in your power, at the same. time we flatter ourselves this correspondence will prove a mutual
benefit."
Mr. Russell appears to have contemplated the transaction as one from which a fair advantage was, to be.
derived. He received a comniissifn on his indorsements,
The court cannot consider these letters as ebnstituting
a contract by which Clark and Nightingale undertook

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RUSSELL

v.
CLAK'S

Ex'Rs.

to render themselves liable for the engagements of Rober~t Murray & ,Co to Nathaniel Russell. Had it been
such a contract, it would certainly have been the duty
of the Plaintiff to have given. immediate notioe to .the
Defendants of the extent of Ins engagements.
It remains to inquire whether these letters contain
such a misrepresentation of the circumstances and claracter of the house of Robert Murray & Co as to render them. accountable to the Plaintiff for the injury he
has sustained by' trusting that company
The, ques9tion, how far merchants are responsible for
the cha'racterAhey give each other, is one of much delicacy and of reat importance to the commercial world.
That a fraudulent recommendation (and a recommendation, known at the time, to he untru , would be
deemed fraudulent) would subject the person giving it
to damages sustained by the person trusting to,if, seems
now to be generally admitted. The case of Pasley v.
Freeman, reported in, 3 Durnford and East, .recognizes
and establishes this. principle. Indeed, if an. act, in itself immoral, in its consequences injurious to another,
performed for the purpose of effecting that injuryi benot cognizable and punishable by our lws, our system
of jurisprudence is more defective than hias 'hitherto
been supposed.
But this does not appear to the Court to be the case
described. It is proved incontestibly that when the
letters, on which this suit depends, were written, Robert
Murray andCo. were in high credit, and were cariying
on business to a great extent, which was generally
deemed profitable. The bill charges- particular knowledge in Clark and Nightinpale that this apparent prosperity was not real. But this, as well as every other
allegation of fraud, is explicitly denied by the apswer,
and the answer, being responsive to the bill, is evidence.
Had the Plaintiff been ableto exhibit proofs whichwould
have rendered this fact doubtful, it might have been proper to have directed an issue for the purpose of trying
it but he has'exhibited no such proofs.
In writing the lettersp then, recited m the bfl , Clark

FEBRUAAY TEAM 18i2.
and Nightingale stand acquitted of the amputation of nUSs LL
T.
fraud.
CLARK7S

But it is contended iby the Plaintiff, that the repre- mx'Rs.
sentation they made of th6 circumstances of RobertMurray and Co. was,-at the time untrue, and that this
misrepresentation, whether made ignorantly orkno*ingly, was equally injurious to Nathaniel Russell, and
equally charges them with the loss he has sustained by
trusting to their assurances.
The fact, that Robeft Murray and Co. were not, in
January, i796, in solvent circumstances, is..not clearly
made out. but the cause does not rest entirely .on this
fact. The principle, that a mistake in such a fact as the
reaf internal solidity of a -mercantile house, whose external appearance is unsuspicious, shall subject the person, representing their solidity to another, to the loss
sustained by that other in trusting to thi repyesentation,
is not admitted.
Merchants know the circuinstauces under-which" recommendations of'this description must be- given. Trhev
know that when one commercial man speaks of another
in -extensive business,'lie must be presumed to speak
from that knowledge only which is given by reputatipn.
He is not supposed to have inspected all the books and
tranpactions.of his friend, with the critical eye which-is
emplQyedin a case of bankruptcy He must, therefore,
M supposed to speak of the -credit, not of the actual
known fu'nds of thie person he recommends; of his a .parent, not of his real solidity. In such a case it is
certainly- incautious and indiscreet to use terms -which
Jnply absolute and positive" knowledge. It may, perhaps, be, admittd that, in such a case, fraud may be
presumed on slighter evidence than woiild be required
in a-cAse where a letter was written with more circivspectini. Yet, even in such a case, where the communmcation is honestly made, and the patty making it has
no interest in the transactionhe has never been declared to b6 responsible for its actual verity., The reason
of the rule is, that merchants generally possess, andare therefore presunied, in their correspondence, to
speak from that kndifledge only of the circumstances
of other merchaits-whch may'be acquired by observing

SOPREME COURT t°. S.
RussE=iL

v.

then' course of business, their punctuality and their
general credit.

CLAXWs

Ex Rs.

This principle app6ars to have been fully considered
in the case of Hayeraft v. Creasey, reported m 2 Bast,
in which case all the authorities were reviewed. It
does not appear that., a single decision has been ever
made, asserting the liability of the writer of such a letter. The case of Haycraft v. Creasey denies hialiability; and that case appears to this Court to have been decided in conformity with all previos adjudications.
It is therefore the opinion of the Court, that 'Clark
& Nightingale, having believed, and had reason to believe, so far as 'is shown by the evidence in this cause,
ihat thq 'epresent4tion they made to the Plaintiff, of the
character and circumstances of Robert Murray and Go.
was true, are not liable to the Plaintiff, in consequence
of that representation, for- the credit he gave to that
company
A claim is also, set up to the funds in the hands of
Clark and Nightifigale, founded on the circumstance
that they consist, in part, of the rice purchased with
the bills indorsed by the Plaintiff. But as no specific
lien is alleged to have existed, and as the particular
fraud, alleged to have been committed to acquire those
funds, is not proved, this claim is unsustainable.
The Plaintiff, then, cannot be considered as a trust
creditor in consequence of any claim, lie can assert
against Clark and Nightingale.
The second deed which is dated on the %th day of
March, 1798, is also in trust "cto pay to Joseph and.
William Russell, the amount that shall be recovered and
paid from them to Nathaniel -Russell," &c. "cupon account of a letter.of credit," &1c. "and for which the said
Nathaniel Russell hath recovered a judgment against
the said Joseph and William Russell."
No part of this judgment has ever been paid, and Joseph and William Russell are insolvent. The state of
things, then, has pqrhaps not yet occurred in which loseph and William Russell could demand the execution

FEBRUARY ThRM ii.
of- the trust: and the Court, though with -some hesita. AUSSELL,
V.
tion, feels constrained to decide that, under the terms qf

this trust, Nathaniel Russell cl4ong through Joseph cLTi

tk's

and, William Russell, cannot demand its execution di- zx'Rs.
rectly to himself.

It also appears that, in September, 17961, Robert
Murray,. and Co. assigned to Loomis and Tillinghast,
certain personalties in trust. This assignment was
surrendered to Clark- and Nightingale in consideratioa
of notes to a large amount, in which Loomis and Tillinghast were bound for Robert Murray aud Co. It
appears that Clark and Nightingale are otherwise secured with respect to these notes, at least, there is reason to believe that they are secure.
Clark and Nightingale, haVing taken this assignment with notice of the trust, take it clothed With -the
trust. They are trustees for the same uses and to the
same extent with Loomis and Tillitghast.
A paper appears in the cause, whish purports to be
the assignnmentto Loomis and Tillinghast. The assignmont is in trust, first, to repay themselves any sums
which they may pay on account of certain undertakings made by them for Rofiert Murray and Co. and,
"o pay to Joseph and William Russecondly, in trust 46
sell all such monies as they shaill be liable- to pay, as
guaranty as aforesaid, to Nathaniel Russell upon bills,"
&c.reciting the .bills for which this suit;is instituted.
It is settled in this Court, that the person for whose
benefit.a trust is created, who is to be the ultimate receiver of money, mty sustain a suit in equity, to have it
paid directly to himself.
This trust being to ,pay Joseph & William Russell, a
sum they ar liable to pay to ] athaniel Russell, and being created .in such terms, that the money is certainly
payable to them, the purposes. of equity wAill be best effected by decreeing it, in a case like the present, to be
paid directly to Nathaniel RusselL Indeed, a Court
ought not to ddcree Apayment to J.o9eph &William Russell, without security, that the debt to fTathaniel Russell should be satisfied.
VOL, VIL

SUJREM9 COVET IYI.- 8;
R

sustLL

T.

.But it is tot shuiai 1171 any legal evidence, that. tis
paper is the assighraept which was made/ in trust to

ou.Ta§s Loomfs & Tillihghast, and. r sferre by them to Clark
zx7s. & Nightingale. Its verity is not admitted by the De-fendants, nor proved by the Plaintiff.
Nor are -We circumstances under which the transfer
was m A, nor the present cirtumstances of the trust,
sufficiently before the Court, to enable it to decil6 with
certainty, whether the prior trust to LoomLs & Tillinghast is satisfied, or otherwise so secured, that the. trust
fund may now be applied to the debt of Joseph & William
Russell.
Could these-defects besupplied, the Court would still
be unable to-decree in favor of the Plaintiff, for want of
proper parties.
The incapacity imposed on the Circuit Courts to proceed against %anyperson residing within -the-United
States, but not within the Distriet, for which the Court
may be holden, Would certainly justify them in. dispensing with parties merely formal.' Perhaps in cases
where the real merits of the cause may be determinei
without essentially affecting the interest of absent persons, it may be the duty of the Court to decree, as ber
tween the parties before them. But in this case, the
assignees of Robert Murray, & Co. ,are so essential to
tht merits of the question, and may be so muph affected"
by the decree, that the Court cannot proceed to a final
decision of the cause till they are parties. They may
contest the validity of all the deeds ulider which, both
parties claim, and assert in themselves, for the benefit of
the creditors generally, a right to the whole find Certainly this Court ought not, on light grounds, and without due precaution, to change the hands- in which tius
fund is placed, until any claim of the assignees to it may
be decided.
Should 'this difficulty be obviated by suspending thq
efrdet-of the dedree, till the validity of tile trust deeds
shoudl be decided, or by directiig security to be given.
another presents itself, Which cannot be-removed. -The
assignees have a right to contest the claim of.Wathaniel
Rugsell, and may, either deny its original validity, or

FEBRUARY TERMf 81 .
show that it has been paid.- They are, then, easential nuss zz
vi
parties, and the Court ought not'to decree in favor of
the Plaintiff, without them. -It is possible, that they fLAi's
may consent to make themselves parties in this eause, ,x'Rs;
and, as a-Court may, instead of dismissing a bill brought
to a hearing without proper parties, give leave to make
new parties, the Court will, in this case, set aside. t1e
decree of the Circuit Court, dismissig this bill, andre.
mand the cause to the Circuit Court, with leave to make
new parties.
SCHOO ER CATHERINE w.- TE

U. STATES.
.4812.
'Feb.

--

Jbsent.... Washnnton,justice.
THIS case was dismissed because the counsel

13th.

'Ifthe cet~sel

to
neglect
for-ant
Appel.
for the

Courtwitha
era
furnish thethe Appellant had lidt .furnished the Court with a statement of the points of -the case, agreeably tq the gneral statement of

rule on that subject.

thepomtsQf

the case, the

-It Was afterwards reinstated by consent of parties.

BINGHAM & obrHmas - MORRIS-&

oTuBEs.

appeal will be
d ssed.

1812.
Feb.

18th.

rule to
iMRIEDITH, moved the court to dismiss ths The
distiss a writ
appeal, because the transcript of the reeord was not filed of error for
within the first six days of the term, agreeably to the not filingthe
§enuralrule (ante vol. 3. p. 239r.) The trauscript was the record
.filed on the 13th day of the term andbefore the motion withinthefirsl
to dismiss.
,term, does~not
apply to cases

the
The-CoguT, (WASnINGTON, justice, absent) said that -where
tranteript shall
they did not consider the rule asapplying to any case havebeen iled

where the transcript shall have been fdedbefore the mo.
tion for dismissal.

Jotion overrled.

before the'rmQ.

tion to dismi*.

