SUPREME COURT U. S.
HOLKER AND OTHERS v. PARKER.

1813.
March

st.

Present....21t the Judges except TODD,

.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for
An attorney ft
law, as such, the distrit of Massachusetts. i a suit m Chancery
has
auIhorfm
tbo submit
thv brought by Holker, and others. his assignees, against
cause to abi- Parkeri

to set aside an award made under a rule of Court
tt-.ron.
in a sit at law in the same Court between Iolker and
Put an, atto.
nay at L, Parker.
inereiy as
such, has tin
ight; stritly

speaking, to
ra.,ke a coinprntiuse for his

cuicut.

The case, as stated by MARSHALL. Chi. ,T. in delivering the oinion of the Court, vwas as follows:
:In the year 1782- John HIolker, one of the Plaintiffs.
In ths cause, Dani, I Parker, the Defendant, and William Duer, who is (lead insolvent, formed a trading
company, under the name anid firm of Daniel Parker &
Co. of' winch Daniel Parker was the acting partner.
After receiving large sums or money and contracting
debts to a great amount, Parker absconded' from the
United States without making any settlement of his accounts. fit the month of December, 1785, Holker commenced a suit against Parker in the Court of common
pleas for the county of Philadelphia, where the said
Parker had resided and carried on the business of the
co-partnership. This suit was commenced by attaching
the effects of Parker in the hands of Thomas Fitzsimmons. In .Tune, 1788, a judgment in favor of the said
Holker was rendered on the verdict of a jury for the
sum 'if 17.2311. i2s. 9d. Pennsylvania currency, equal
to $125,951 03. The property attached, amounting
to $ 5,000, was sold and'paid to the said Rolkqr'towards
satisfving this judgment.
Other.attachments were laid by Holker on the pro
perty of Parker, and proceedings were also instituted
against him by other persons, creditors of the company
On the 31st of December, 1788, while these were depending, an indenture of six parts was made and exe
cuteil between said Parker by Andrew Craigie, his attorney of the first part, John Holker of the second
part, Samuel Rogers of the fourth part, by Andrew

FEBRUARY TERM i8i3.
Craigie, his attorney, Royal Flint of the fifth part, and louin
sundry creditors of Daniel Parker & Co. of the. sixth
V.
part. William Duer was named in the said indenture PAXKER.
as of the third part, but never executed the deed.
The object of this deed was to convey to Royal'Flint
in trust for the creditors of Damel Parker & Co. and
for other .purposes therein specified, the partnership
effects of Geyer, De la Lande, and Fynye, to which Parker represented hniself.to be entitled, and which -lie had.
previously conveyed to the said Samuel Rogers. Bythis indenture the said Parker. covenanted among other
things that he would, within eight mon'th from the date
thereof, repair to Philadelphia personally, or by attorney, and'then settle all the accounts of the company.
It was further agreed that the said Parker and Holker
should, within eight months from the date of the first
indenture, reciprocally give bonds to each other in the
penal sum of 50,0001. Penrnsvlvania currency condition,
ed for the setthieut of their respective accounts within
ten months thereafter, and 'for payment of their several
balances to Royal Flint and his successorsfor the trusts
in the said indenture mentioned. The bonds to be assigned to the said Royal Flint or his successors ii trust
as aforesaid.
In consideration of the premises the sa1d Holker, atid
also the said parties of the sixth part, severally covenanted with the said Parker that they would immediate.
ly ,; vacate, annul, discontinue and withdraw all suits,
"actions and proceedings whatever. which they or any
"or either of them shall or may at any time or times
" heretofore have comimenced, brought or prosecuted
0 against the said Daniel Parker or his estate, goods,
"c chattles or property in any Court or place whatso"ever in -Europe or America, and shall and will place
"him, the said Daniel Parker, and his property in the
" same situation as they were before the commencement
t of such suits or proceedings." And the said Holker
further covenanted not to commence or prosecutp any
action against hum, the said Parker, for any balance that
mig.ht be'due until after eighteen months .after the eight
months aforesaid should have expired.
'The bonds were given, but Parker failed to comply

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'%Knn with the covenant for settling the accounts of the copartnership transactions..
'PARiWim.

The effects of Geyer, De la Lande, and Fyanye, which
were assigned to Royal Flint, being insufficient to satisfy
previous charges on them, proved totally unproductive.
Debts to a large amount due from Daniel Parker &
Co. were recovered from Holker and paid by him.
On the 21st July9 1796, Holker made a power of attorney to James Lloyd, of. Boston, for the purpose of
recovering from the said Parker the monies supposed
to be"'tie to him, and at the same time transmitted to
,thesailf Lloyd copies of the judgment obtained by him
agaiitst Parker in June) 1788, and of a judgment obtained against Holker by John Ross. for the sum of
12,9331. 7s. 1d. Pennsylvania currency, equal to
$ 3n,. 8 9'. This judginent was for a debt due from
D-niel Parker & Co. was rendered subsequent to the
npdenture of six parts herein before stated, and had
been discharged by Holker
Mr. Lloyd placed these papers in the hands of Mr.
Lowell, an attorney at law of Boston, who instituted an
action of debt on the judgment obtained by flolker
against Parker This suit was brought by vay of attachment. At the Jhne term, 1797, Daniel Parker appeared by his attorney, and filed four several pleas in
bar of the action, in a!L of which the indenture of sLx.
parts herein before stated -Nas pleaded as a release of
the judgn~ut on which the suit was instituted.
The Plaintiff's a(torney prayed oyer of the in'strument of which the Defendant had made a.profert in ins
pleas, and. in the October term, 1797, not having replied or demurred to the sal lpleas, entered :nto a rule
of Court, I1y which' the said action and ap demands
were referred to Nathar Goodale, George Deblois, and
Fisher Ames, esquires, with liberty reserved to Holker
of di.agreenig to the rule thirty days after le should
receive notice of it.
Notice of this rule was received by Holker in August,
1798, but he does not appear to have been informed

VFE,1RUARY TERM i8.S.
that any liberty of dissenting from it was reserved'to HoLKurc
".
him. It would seem that lie submitted to it with some
,repugnance, and undeF' the idea that it was unavoidable. PAn.KRt.
On the. Sth of September, 1798, Holker made an affidavit, which he transmitted to his attorney, stating
many reasons why the referers should not immediately
proceed to make up their award in the case, and showing that in the settlement of the complex accounts between Parker and himself, much testimony -would be required. respecting transactions both in Europe and
America, and that so much depended on the entries in
the books -of the bank at Philadelpha, that the settlement ought to take place there. He deplared, however§
that lie would endeavor to be prepat-4 to appear beforethe arbitrators in the succeedin- montlos of November,
or December, or souner if practicabl .
In October, 1798, the rule of reference was made absolute. Mr. olker had assigned this claim to Mr.
Lowell, the father of his attorney at law, the administrator of Mr. Russel. so far as would be necessary to
satisfy a debt due to Russel's estate. On the 6th of November, 1798, Mr. Lloyd wrote a letter to Mr. Hotker.
informing him that his- alidavit had been laid befor,' the
Court, in consequence of which 'his cause had been
continued until the succeeding June term. On the 23d
of the same month Mr. Lloyd addressed another letter
to Mr. Holker, informing Itthat the " referees would
attend to his business whenever it'might be convenient
for hii to appear before them,"
Suits had been instituted against Holker in Piiiladelphia, in winch lie had been compelled to give bail in
large sums. Re then resided in Virginia, and was arrested. in Baltimore by his bail in April, 1799, and carried to Philadelphia, where he was enabled to obtain
other bail on no other condition than the express stipulation of not iproceeding t6 Boston. On tie 18th of
May he niade an affidavit before the mayor of Philadelphia, stating that he was prevented by this detention
from proccedingto Boston in order to attend the referces in person as he proposed to do. Tha he was
about petitioning the Supreme Couvt of Pennsylvania
for a speiNal Court, which he had reason to beliive be,

11o

SUPREME COURT U. S.

should obtain in the course of the succeeding July or
August, but that in the mean time it was utterly out of
PARuLE& his power to go to Boston. This affidavit was transmitted to his atto-Iiey in Boston. On the. 21th of J.une
Mr. Lowell addressedthe following letter to Mr. Holker:
nOLKER

Iv.

" I received your affidavit through my -friend Mr.
"4Lloyd, and with much difficulty obtained a delay
"CThe referees adjourned to the first of September next,
6, when the cause will go on at all events, whether you
" are here or not. As to success without your aid it is
" out of the quwstion, as we know nothing of the cause,
"cand as your subsequent covenants with Parker will
" appear to annihidate your claims under the judgment.
"W'hether you will eventually succeed in getting a
"6nopinal judgment against Parher-if you do attend,
64 you alone can judge. I am rather inclined to think I
" could, persuade the adverse counsel to give us a judg.,

4"fment for the whole or part of *the property attached.
' (9 7,200) They appear to be heartily sick of defendSinm Parker, as they know him to be immersed beyond

" hope of recovery, and are doubtful whether they will
-,be compensated for their trouble. Whether some ar66 rangement of this. sokt would not be advantageous to
" you if it can be effected, consider int your doubt of re" covery, and the certainty of Parker' inability to pay
" what may be decreed, you best can judge.
" Whatever you do on.thbis point let it be explicit, as
" Mr. Lloyd and myself mean to avoid all responsibili" ty and every hazard of future blame. I beg you will
5 Inform me speedily what we shall do about your acc tion, as the referees will meet in sixty days or there" aboutfq."
This letter was transmitted to Mr Holker by Mr.
Lloyd, who subjoined thereto the following letter66 Immediately on the receipt of your favor covering
" a memorial to the Circuit Court, I delivered them
cboth to Mr. Lowell who duly attended thereto the
" result is communicated in the foregoing letter from
"that gentleman. His obtaining the delav is what
" could not have been calculated on. The Court would

FEBRUARY TERM 181s.
";not have granted it To avoid expqnse in feeing HoLxE.l
"fcounsellors it was acceded to by the other party
V.
PARKER;

"The period now fixed can no longer le protracted
"on any account whatsoevt.r. From what I can learn
",of the disposition of tile Defendants, ft is trilly depict", ed to you in Mr. Lowell's letter- they would, as lie
"observes, probably confess judgment f6r the greater
"part if not the whole of the property attached. It
"must be understood that they would do this only oit
"the condition that they should receive a full discharge
"from you on account of Danzel Parker "Youwill please
66 to let me recive your determination as sooh as may
cc be convenient.",

These letters were never answered by Mr. Hdlker.
A petition had been presented by 'Holker to .the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania to have his person liberated on delivering up all his property for the use of Ins
creditors in pursuance of a law of that state; This petition came on to be heard on the 13th of September,
1799, but was continued from time to time until the 14th
day of April, 1800, when by the judgment of that
Court he was discharged from custody
The referees made the following report to the Circuit
Court during the October term, i799;
"Tihe subscribers, pursuant to the annexed rule, met.
t at the office of Nathan Goodale on the 8th day of
"June, 1799, after notifving John Lowell, jr esquire;
"6attorney for the Plaintifr, John Holker, and William
,, Hull, esquire, attorriev for said Daniel Parker, the
"csaid attornies attending our meeting and John Lowell,
",jr.esquire, in behalf of said Hdlker, having asked a
U delay or adjournment until thd first day of September
cc then next, now last past, and on the aid first day of
if September the referees having again met. and the
"c said parties appearing by their attornies, and having
"c been fully heard; the said nedting was again adjourn"ed at the request of the said Lowell until tas day, be'ing the 23(1 day of October, 1799i when the said at"tornies havig again appeared, and nothing further
"being offered In support of their several alleati-ins
4' we do award that the said John Holker, the Plaintiff,
157
~
VOLW,.

SUPREME COURT. U S.
uoLxO n *' recover against tife said Daniel Parker the sum of
" 5,000 in full satisfaction and discharge of all debts,
66
V.
"costs, judgments, executions, accounts, controversies,
•AnEKE.
"claims or demands, subsisting between them, of what
6 name or nature soever. '
The award was read and accopted, andjudgment immediately rendered for S 500W without costs, which sum
was received by the attorney of Mr Holker, and the
balance after deductingcosts and commissions was paid to
the administrator ol Russel, to whom Holker was indebted and to whom he had made an assignment of his
claims against Parker, so far as it should be necessary
to satisfy the said debt.
It appears that the evidences in suppmot of Holkers
claims, other than the two judgments which have been
mentioned, were never in the hands of his counsel, and
were consequently never laid before the referees, that
the counsel for Holker never controverted the allegation made on the part of Parker, that the judgment obtained by Holker in the Court for the county of Philladelphia, was released by the indenture of SLx parts, nor
ever insisted that it was to be considered as primafacze
evidence subject to such objections, or to such discounts
as Parker might make. The accounts between the
parties do not appear to have been examined, nor the
judgment of the arbitrators exercised on any part of the
case. The award for S 5000 was made with the consent of Parker's attorney, and without objection on the
part of Holker's attorney That -transaction is thus
stated by Mr. Lowell is Some time before the trial,"'the
" counsel for Parker did lead this deponent to under-. stand that as they were desirous of closing the affair,
-. they should not object to our taking judgment for the
.amount attacld, but the deponent wholly and abso,, lutely did reject the said proposal. He however sta. ted it to said Holker and begged his instructions
-. thereon, but said Holker never replied to said letter;
.when the referees met and tins deponent found they
-*would proceed to final judgment against his client for
defct of evm.dence lie, this deponent, stated the fora.er
offer, but the adverse counsel refised to agree to it
A;but said that they had no objection to our taking judgA-went if the referees saw fit for 9 5000 instead of

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
S$72Q0 or thereabouts, the amount attached, though HoLRv
"v.
"they declared they had doubts Nhether on. a final Itquidation there would be so much due. The referees P AER.
," taking their admission agaist them awarded that sum.
"But it was never agreed by this deponent that such a
"sum should be taken in full of the said Holker's de"mands. It was no compromise, nor was there any se" cret nderstanding; but he deemed it his duty to obtain
"seven this sum rather than an award, which would have
"6been otherwise made, that the said Parker owed the
, said Holker nothing." The attorney for Mr. Parker whose deposition is also in the record states the
transaction thus -After a considerable examlna" tion of the accounts by the arbitrators without corn'ing to a decision, Mr. Lowell agreed that they should
"award to Mr. Holker 8 5000 in full of all demands,
"sprovided, I would agree to give security for the pay"ment of tle'money to Mr. Holker or to his attorney,
",Mr. Parker being abroad. I agreed to it. We both
"6agreed to'it. It was done When Mr. Lowell and
"mvself had agreed, we stated our agreement to the
" arbitrators." To another interrogatory the same witness answers 4I did not recommend to the arbitra"tors any award until the parties had agreed upon a
"sum, myself and Mr. Lowell."
Two of the arbitrators are dead. The deposition of
the third has been taken. He says that the award was
founded entirely on the admission of Mr. Parker's attorney.
The correspondence of Mr. Holker with his attornies
shewed his confident reliance on the judgments placed in
their hands as amounting to primaficie evidence, and
that his claims considerably exceeded those judgments.
The evidence now taken in the cause swells them. to a
very great amount.
There is evidence that Daniel Parker was at the tinie.
much embarrassed in consequence of deep speculation
in the national debt of France, and that he was certainly believed by the attorney of Mr. Hlolker To be insolvent. This was at that time the general impression.
it was afterwards knowni to be erroneous

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HOLK R
Mr. Holker instittled a suit, against Mr. Parker in
v.
France, where it was determined that he was barred by

PARKER. .thejudgment rendered against him in the Circuit Court
of the United States on the award.

Holker ahd his trustees have now brought this suit in
the Circuit Court'of the United States setting in Chancery, praying that the award may be set aside in whole
or in part, thal the accounts between Holker and Park=er may be settled, and that Parker may be decreed to
pay the sum which shall appear to be due. Parker has
pleaded the award and judgment thereon in bar of these
claims and of any account.
On. a hearing, the bill of,the Plaintiffs was dismissed,
pnd from that decree an appeal was made to this Court"
HARunfir the ,ppella-ts, contended that the awarq
ought to be set aside.
1st. Because the rule of reference was entered into
without authority
9d. Because if there was authority, the rule and the
award e:ceeded it.
ad. Because the award was founded on a mistake in
law.
4th. Because it was made on an agreement or compromise made coilusivelv, or inadvertentlyor byimistake,
between the Plaintiff's attorney and the agentof the
Defefidant.:
5th. Because, if no such agreement or compromise
were made, the award was founded on a belief of one,
and therefore void for mistake.
I & 2. The reference was made without authority.
The letter of attorney to Lloyd is "egenerally to do and
pqrform all that may be necessary in the premises.?
t cautiously avoids giving a power to refer to arbitration. Lowell so understood it, as appears from'his answer to the 11th interrogatory Lowell; as attorney at
law, had nq such authority.- Tf he had, it could oily

FEBRUARY TERM i83.

extend to submit that action, not all demands. His
autlority was limited to the case in which he was employeu, and Lloyd had authorit) over two causes ofaction only, the judgment in Pennsylvania recovered by
Holker against Parker, and the judgment recovered by
Ross against iolker and which he had paid.
3. The award was void because it was fimnded on a
mistake of the law. It is true this mistake does not
appear on the face of the award, but-that is an objection
at taw only, and not in a Court of equity, which may
go into collateral cii umstances, and may set aside the
award if the law be mistaken.
The mistake in lav'was in supposirg that the causes of
action on the judgments of-Holker v. Parker, and Ross
v. Holker were barred by the indenture of six parts.
Ross's judgment was obtained in 1795 and paid in 1796.,
and the indenture of six parts was made in 1788.
Holker's covenant does .not extend to wudgments---t is,
only to "vacate, annul, discontinue and withdraw all
,, suits, actions andproceedings," clearly alluding to the.
attachments which Holker and others had then recently
instituted against him. This covenant is further exp)latned by the subsequent covenant not to sue Parker
until the expiration of 26 months from that date.
The expression ",suits, actions and proceedings" does
not include judgments. And if it did, yet the covenant.
of Parker to appear in Philadelphia within eight months.
and settte his accounts, was a condition,precedent to the
covenant on'the part of Holker to vacate, and withdraw
the proceedings then pending, This covenant is expressed to be - tit consmderationof the premises," which
expression implies a prior performance on the part of
Parker. It was quid pro quo. A man is not presumed
to part with his right until he receive the compensation,
unless he expressly stipulates so to do. The pleas do not
state a performance on the part of Parker. I, Lord Rayihd,
662, Thorpe v. Tzore.-2, Burr 899, Collins v.
Gibbs. Cro. El. 88.-7, Co. 9, 10, Hob. 106.-1, Esp. .
PA28.
1. The award was founded on a comprornise entered'
into between the attorney of Holker and the agent of
r1arer, either by collusion, or by imposition of the lat-

HOLKER

V.
PARxKiE

SUPREME COURT U. S.
mOLKFR ter upon the former and was without any authorityfrom
V.
Iolker. It was an award inform only, but was in fact
FARKEM. a compromise.
General Hull, in Ins deposition, states it to have been
a compromise, and that it was stated as such to the arbitrators. Mr. Deblois, the surviving arbitrator, says
the award was made upon the.Defendant's acknowiedgement atone, which implies a compromise. And Mr.
Lowell admits there was an understanding that Parker's attorney should acknowledgea balance.
This then was a compromise founded on the collusion
of the Plaintiff's attorney, contraiy to Ins duty to his
client, and expressly contrary to Ins instructions, which
were not to agree to arbitration unless Parker would
give security to pay the award. Why did le wave this
condition ? Why not inform liolker of his right to dissent to the arbitration ?
Holker repeatedly informed Lowell and Lloyd, that
the covenant was no bar, because Parker had never settled his accounts. agreeably thereto. Yet the attorney
yielded to the suggestion of the plea. Again, Holker's
letters informed him that the judgment against Parker
could not be opened, yet he waved that judgment, (although it was at least primna facze evidence even if it
could be opened,) and admitted before the referees that
the claims of Hlolker could not be supported. But if
there were no collusion 6n the part of Lowell, 'he was
imposed upon by Hull. He was made to believe that
Parker was wholly insolvent, and might have believed
that the amount of the attached effects was so much.
saved out of the wreck of Ins estate.
But if there was neither collusion nor imposition, the
compromise was made without authority. - Neither
Lloyd nor Lowell had power to make it. Holker had
forbidden a reforence, but he knew nothing of a comproAnd if it were not a compromise, yet the award was
made by the arbitrators upon the supposition that there
as one , -and being founded on a mistake into winch
criey were led by the opposite party, it is void.

FEBRUARY TERM iis.
If it is not void for these reasons, yet it is void for HoLICEli
v.
misbehaviour in the arbitrators in not looking into the
case. They had sufficient evIdence before them, but rAn.nn.
confided in the reresentations of General Hull.
AmonY and P B. KEY, contra.
In the articles of co-partnership it is covenanted that
all matters in dispute between the partners shall be left
to arbitration, so that Holker could not refuse to agree
to the rule of Court.
Lowell and Lloyd were to have fifteen per cent. commission upon all monies collected, and were therefore
interested to recover as much as possible. The legal
right to the debt was assigned to Russel's administrators with foll'power to collect it, so that Holker was
fully represented.
The plea of the indenture was a good bar to the judgment" in Pennsylvania. It was a covenant to open all
judgments and go into a settlement of accounts. The
parties could not have gone into a settlement of accounts
without opening that judgment, for the judgment included all Holker's claims up to a certain time. If it be
a covenant' to release, it is equivalent to a release. The
words of the covenant are, "cimmediately vacate, annul,
" discontinue and withdraw, all suits, actions, and pro" ceedings whatever, which they or any or either of them,.
"cshall or may, at any time or times heretofore have
"ccommenced, brought, or prosecuted against the said
c Daniel Parker or his estate$ goods, &c. in any Court
" or place whatsoever in Europe or America, and shall
" and will place him, the sailt.,Dguil Parker, and his
" property in the same situatioit as they were before
"the commencement of such Eiits or proceedings."
This is not limited to any suits or proceedings then
pending, but includes all suits and proceedings which
had been at any time before commenced. It included
those which had been prosecuted to judgment as well as
those then pending,
But a judgment by default in another state is not conclusive. This judgment was by foreign attachment i1L
Pennsylvania. It was a proceeding entirely ex parte.
It was in itself an imperfect voucher. It was examina-

1

SUPREME COURT U. S.

noLKER ble every Where--even in Pennsylvania. XVil debet was
v.
a good plea to an action upon it in that state; and a
PAmitK
. fortiori in another state. I Da/. 375, M'Cenacauza o.
.41Carthy.
Bat the covenant was a good bar tO it. The covenants on the part of Parker were not conditions precedent. They could not be so in the nature of things,
for the actibnS, suits and proceedings were to be vacated
immediately, and Parker was not to account until eight
months afterwards. A covenant hot to sue may be
pleaded as a release.

2 Bac. s/b. 93.

Cro. El. 352.

A mistake of the law in a doubtful point is no ground
to set aside an'award. Wyd on Aiwards. 2 Eq. ca. ab.
92. 9. . od.-63. 2 Com. Dig. 146.
Lloyd's power authorized a reference. It was to compel payment of all demands against every body, by all
lawful ways and means. Whatever Holker could do in
the premisesi Lloyd could do. He was not confined to
a jury trial. Having the general power to collect, he
was of course, to use all reasonable and usual means.
But Lowell, as attorney at law, had power to refer
the case to arbitration, IKjd on Awards, 45, 1 Dall. 16-,
and under the circumstances of the case it was a discreet act. He was led by H6lker's letter to suppose
that he was to submit the case to arbitration if hi could
get security He knew it to be impossible to get security, and therefore took the other part of his instructions and submitted to arbitration without security.
The probability is that Lonvell did give him notice of
his right to dissent. Holker's letter of September, 179s,
shows that he knew that all demands were submitted.
Lowell, believing that the judgment was barred by the
indenture, and being desiroi:s to support the actioii and
the attachment, thought that he was doing a benefit to
Holker by extending the reference to alt denuands. But
Lowell's mistakes of the law, if they be such,.or- even
his mismanagement of the cause, cannot affect Parker
It is a matter entirely between Holker and his attorney
The reference, then, was a discreet act, and fully authorized. The parties were. bound then to produce
their clalmsPand their evidence, or to be forever fore-

FEBRUARY TEIIM I8I.
blose7. Holker Rnew th¢ time. He asked delay, sup6rted by his affidavit, and obtained it. H knew that
his personal attendaice was not necessary-he knew
that Lawell had not evidence to support the case, yet
he neglected to furnish fim with eviflence, and abaniloned his rights, if lie had aity. and cannot resume them
when lie pleases.
There was no compromise. Lowell swears expressly there was not. After writing the letter of the 21th
of Fune, 1799, it is not probable that lie would have
taken such a responsibility upon himself.
The bill does not charge fraud in the refi-ees-if it
had, they ought to have been made parties. The object
of the bill is to open an account which cannot vow be
settled with justice.
All the objections now alleged against the award'
were good in a Court of law, and might have been
urged upon the retu n1of the award. Where a man bas
lost his legal reiledy by hs negligence, he shall not
have relief in equity
aMarch 1Oth.... MARsiALL, Ch. 3. after stating the
facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the Court as
follows:
On the part of the Appellants it is contended that all
attorney at law has no power, without ihe consent of
Ins client, to transfer a cause to other judges than those
appointed by the laws, and to place it before a tribunal
distinct friom that before which the party Himself has
chosen to place it.
In this opinion however the majority of the Court
does not concur. It is believed to be the practice
throughout the union for suits to be referred by consent
of counsel without special authority, and this universal
practice must be fouiided on a general conviction that
the power of an attorney at law over the cause of his
client extends to such a rule. Were it otherwise, Courts
could. not justify the permission which they always
grant, to enter a rule of reference when consented to by
counsel on'both sildes. In this case, however, the letter
VOL. VII.
Is

loia-tn
v.
r~xA, r°

010
uo.mmR
V.
*PrAIIFIL.
....

SUPREME COURT U. S.

and affidavit- of Mr. Holker of the 8th of September,
1798, manifests at least an acquiescence in th6 rule,
which the opposite party had a right to consider as an
assent to it.
The same letter and affidavit will meet the still
stronger objection Whlich has been made to the reference
of matters not involved in the suit actually depending
in Court. They certainly impair very much the weight
and influence of those arguments which have been urged
against so much of the award as respects those demandsof Holker which were-not in suit.
The Court, however, does not perceive, in the transactions which took place previous to the award itself;
any circumstance Which could justify a decree to set it
aside. The great and real question in the cause is, has
the award been made under such circumstances, and is
it of such a character, that it ought to bind the Parties?
In examining this question it i iiatural to enquire
whether this be in fact an award, in forming which the
judgment of the arbitrators has been exercised, or a
compromise wearing the dress of an award.
The evidence upon this point is thought very clear.
Nothing can be more explicit than the testimony of generaltHull, who was the attorney of Mr. Parker. He
states an agreement in the most expes4 terms between
hlmsWlf and Mr. Lowell on the sum for which the award
should be given, and the arbitrator, whose deposition
has been taken, declares that the award was made solely on the acknowledgment of the Defendant's counsel.
To time deposition of Mr. Lowell himself great respect is due. He denies a compromise, but on examiiing~us testimony the Court is of opinion that )is denial goes no further than to the form. of an agreement.
The facts lie states prQve one in substance. Believing
himself that Holker's judgment against Parker was released, and that"the referees would enticely disregaitl
it: he himself not. having insisted on it, or questioned
the.validity of time pleas- in bar, lie reminded Parker's
attorney in the presence of the referees of lus former
offer to give $ 7200 in satisfaction of all demandp,

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
It was impossible to misunderstand this declaration. iioLicr.m
v.
It was substantially a proposition to accept an offer

which had been formerly rejected.

General Hull repli- PARcput.

ed that lie would not now give that sunk but would give
$5,000. Mr. Lowell did not agree to accept this offer,
but lie did not rejectit. He louked on silently, and saw
the referees about to make up an award, not on the
testimony of the cause, buton a declaration on the part
of the Defendant that he would give 9 5,000, made in
answer to on.e from limself apparently clinging to a
former offer to give S 7,200. The referees necessarily
construed this silence into consent, and Mr. Lowell was
not unwilling that they should put this construction on
it. He thoug.t it his duty, lie says, to secure even this
sum for his client rather than have an award that Par'ker owed him nothing, which would have been equally
obligatory.
Tis then is substantially a compromise, and not an
award. It is difficult to examine this cause, and to feel
the clear conviction which was felt by Mr. Lowell that
the referees, had the case of Holker been brought as
fully before thiem as it was in the power of his attorney
to-hrin it, and pissed as earnestly on-them as its importanic- deservd,, would have awarded that Parker
owed him nothing.
Had not the sufficiency of the pleas in bar'been mpliedly admitted-had the legal operation of the covenant of six parts been serou~Jy contestcd, it is far fiom
being clear that the. referees would have affirmed the
sufficiency of these plcas, or have construed fie covenant to be a release of the judgment. There is certainly much reason to doubt whether the covenant of Holker, although it may be an mndependant covenant,
amounts-to a release of the judgment lie had obtained
against Parker. The mind of the referees does not ap.
pear to have been exercised on, or called to thins question. They do not appear to have had a fair opportunity to form an opinion on it. It does not appear
that the indenture itself was inspected by them, and the
description given of it in the pleas is inaccurate. The
pleas describe the covenant as containing the word
- judgnlent," which' it does not contain. The covenant
is -to vacate, annul, discontinue aid withdraw, all

oS

YVPUE
IEME COWRT If. S.

The pleas
aoL cR suits, actions and proceedings whatever"
'introduce the word "judgmnt' in thew description of
V.
PARKER. the covenant, a word which essentially vanes its construction. Had the real case been brought before the
referees, and their attention been directed to this circumstance, it cannot pe assumed as certain that they
would have considered the judgmeut as vacated, or
would have refused to receive it as prinmafacw evidence
of a clhim to its full amount, open to such objections
as Parker might make to it.
Had they even been of a different opinion, they could
not have believed it certain that Parker, who had escaped from this cofiutry, leavi debts to an immense
amount which 1olker was compelled to pay, against
whom, when only part of those debts were paid, Liolker
had obtained a judgment for 92 5,951 041, was not the
4ebtor of Hlolker to a.large amount. With this view of
the case, had they understood that olker was interceptedin his attempt to attend them, and detained by
legal process, it ought not to have been supposed that
they would have refused to suspend their award until
the issue of his application to the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania for the liberation of Ins person should be
known,

To this Court, then, it appears that this award is not
the ju~gmnent of the a bitrator's ii the cause, but a compromise, between the attornies,-taking the form of an
award, and a compromise made at a time when thi
cause wiis not so desperat as the attorney supposed it
to be. It was a sacrilicm of great and important interests at a time when tbat sacrifice does not appear to
have been absolutely necessary Has the attorney a
right to make such a compromise?
Although an attorney at law, merely as such,, has,
strictly speaking, no right to make a compromise, yet
a Court would be disinclined to disturb one which was
.not so unreasonable in itself as to he exclaimed against
by all, and to create an impressit6n that the jidgment of
the attorney has been imposed on, or nqt fairly exereispil in the case. But where th@ sacrifice is such as to
leave it scarcely possible that, with a full knowledge of
every circumstanceg such a compy.ommse could be fairly

FEBRUARY TERM t813.

made, there can be no hesitation in saying that the corn- Ho~xFR.
T.
promise, being unauthorized and being therefore in itself void, ought uot to bind the injured party. Though rucrRn.
it may assume the form of an award or of a judgment
at law, the injured party, if his own conduct has been
perfectly blameless., ought t-) be relieved against it.
This opinion is the more reasonable because it is scarcely possible that, in such a case. the opposite party can
le ignorant of the unfair advantage he is gaining. His
conduct can seldom fail to be fainted with some disingenuous practice, or, if it has not, lie knows that lie is
accepting a surrender of the rights of another from a
man who is not authorized to make it.
The testimony in this cause accounts for the readiness with which Mr. Lowell acceded to the offer of general Hull. He acted under a mistake, and that mistake is fully disclosed in the record. He believed Parker to be irretrievably ruined. He thought hInm totally
and absolutely insolvent. Tins impression was curmunicated to the referees.

They too were of opiitIon

that to drudge through the trunks of papers arrayed
before them for the purpose of ascertaining how much
one insolvent owed another, would be a useless waste of
time.
Mr. Lowell was apparently of olpnion *that nothing
beyond the attached effects was worth pursuing -le
believed sincerely that an award of $700,000 would
not avail his client more than an award for $ 7,000, and
that lie should ill perform ]is duty if lie put the attached effects in any hazard in the vain attempt to get a
judgment for a larger sum. He could not therefore
venture on any measure wlnch might have produced a
release of those effects. They were the sole object of
his) onteinplation and pursuit. Tlhiose lie knew to he
substance, every thng further le thought a. shadow.

This opinion seems to have influenced his whole conduct, and to have determined him to accede to the com..
promise offered by Parker', attorney.
It has bqen said that an award remrdered under these
circumstances ought not to find Holker unless his own
gross negligence may have deprived bim of that equity
which Woul.4 otherwise belong to hiq case.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
11OKMER

PAinWEu.

Let his conduct be examined.
'ie appears tohave been strongly impressed with the
.mpoitance of his personal attendance on the arbitrators.
Idted it could scarcely be otherwise. Although his
judgment against Parker might not 'be viewed as a
nullity, it would certaily be opened, and all the items
on winch it was founded be liable to exception. His
personal explanations would certainly be essential.
They would also be essential in encountering the credits
which might be claimed by Parker. His personal attendance was impossible.
He appears to have indulged the hope that lie might
be liberated in time, until the perio'd allowed for appearing before the referees had passed away.
It is true that he ought to have transmitted his papers to his attormes. The evidence now.gdduced or a
considerable part of it, might then have been obtained.
That he was led te believe Parker insolvent, would not
be a sufficient excuse for neglecting to do so, unless it
could be shown that this impression was made by Parker himself, or by his agents. The evidence to this
point does not amount to more than light suspicion.
Yet when it is recollected that the Plaintiff was embarrassed and detained by legal process, that he did
not possess a clear and distinct knowledge of the testimony which would be required, that some apology for
not making an early exertion to obtain that testimony
is to be found in the hope lie indulged of being enabled
by the discharge of his person to attend the referees,
that the expectation, that the judgments in the hands of
his counsel would be regarded by the referees, ought
not to be considered as entirely unfounded, this Court
is of opinion that it would be too rigid an application
of the rule which exacts, from those against 1iom iniquitous judgments have been obtained, evidence of
having done all that was Practicable at law, to deny relief in ths case.
With the single exception of his omitting to furnish
the evidence on which his judgment against Parker was
obtained, and to furnish copies of other judgments ren-

FEB3RUARY TER31 Iw3.
tiered aqgamst im as one of the firm of Daniel Parker HoLKE.r
V.
& Co. as he did in the case of Ross, (of the efficacy of
all which if furnishednothing decisive can be said,) no rARKET.
negligence can be imputed to Holker. He has not rested under the decision against him, until Parkc i', confiding in his security, may have lost the means of protecting himself from an unjust demand, but has pursued
him diligently in the Courts of France. Finding tins
award and the.judgment thereon to be an insurmountable bar to the examination of his claim in the Courts of
France, he has without loss of time instituted this suit.
Nothing appears in the cause to induce an opinion, that
the clains of the parties may not now be as fairly and
as fully examined as they could have been before the
referees in1799.
Upon a full view of the whole cause this Court is of
opinion that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing the
bill of the Plaintiffs, and that the decree ought to be
reversed and annulled, with directions to set aside the
award and the judgment rendered in October, 1799,
and to direct an account between the Plaintiff, Holker,
and the Defendant .
DECREE.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record, anl was argued by counsel- On consideration whereof this Court is of -opinion that time award
made in October, 1799, in a suit brought by the Plaintiff, John Holker, against the Defendant, DanelParker,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, and referred by a rule of that
Court to referees therein named, and the judgment of
the said Couft rendered thereon, ought not to bar the
claim of the Plaintiffs in this cause to an account of all
the transactions of the parties, Holker and Parker, with
each other as members of the firm of-Daniel Parker &
Co. and that there is error in the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill of th9 Plaintiffs. Thus Court
doth therefore decree and . der that the decree of the
Circuit Court be reversetl nd annulled, and that the
cause be remanded to the CircuitCourt to be. further
proceeded in according' to law.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EtILKER

V.
rAMMR.

After the opinion was delivered, P B. Key meiiton
ed that in the opinion the Court had said that an account ought to be taken, but the decree only directs
that the proceedings below should be according to law.
*We wish for leave to answer fully before an account
be taken, and wish it may be understood that this Court
does not mean to preveiit a further- answer.
MASH.ALL, Ch. JT

isi2,
March

That is the meaning of'the Court.

BARNITZ'S LESSEE v. ROBERT CASEY.

10th.

Present....qfl the Judges.
Thestatute of

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of 51a-

Maqyland has rylandq in an ejectmeit brought by the lesst e of Barnitz
not declared against Casey, to try the title of Barnitz to certain real
how an mites.
tate estate estate in Baltimore.
shall descend,
which was deThe facts of the case were stated by STORY, . in delitived to the

Itate from Vering the opinion of the Court, as follows
his half bro-

tiler, or irom
his brother of
On or about the 6th
the whole seized of the premises

of Feb. 1780, Daniel Barnitz died
ih the declaration mentioned, hayblood, orfrom
L/is son or ing, by-his will, devised the same to his wife, Catharine
daughter, or Barnitz. in fee, and leaving issue, by his said wife, an
from his wife,
but such e- 'only chil'd and heir, Elizabeth. Barnitz, who intermarstates are left ried with one Charles ,OPConnell, by whom she had all
to descend as only child, John. XcConelt; after whose birth,
and
at common
la%,w.
sometimein 1781, Charles01,IConnelldied. Afterwards, Is
A devise to widow, Elizabeth, intermarried with one John Hanmond,
A. in tee, and
it' he shall die by whom she had one child only, .tohn Barnitz Hammond.
qnder the age and died on the 22d of April, 1788. After her death,
of 21 years,
,
H
and without
0oh71 Hammond intermarried with Elizabeth Agnderson,
issue, then to and died on the 7th of April, 1805, leaving issue by
B. in fee, " a
.od
executo. the lst marriage, Jane B. ttammond and Henry Hamry evise;
n
, his heirs at law, who are now alive, under whom
if B. die be-the Defendant in qlectment claims. On tile 7th of April.
eonthe
fore
tlgencyhap- '179-, Catharate Barnit- died seized of the premise.,

