'SUPREMB COUEr-U. S.
THE SLOOP ACTIVE
Feb.

19th.

THE UIM1TED STATES.

Pvreseit .... qll the judges.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the
Thedeparture Circuit Court of the District of Connecticut whhcbi affoma
sel firmed that of the District Court condemning the sloop
wharf of a
ictive and Cargo.
port, and proceeding a mite

and
therefrom

The libel stated that the sloop detive was an American vessel duly enrolled and licensed for the cod-fishery

with intent to 6n the 5th of July, 1808, and bad given the bond re90 to sea, is
not a depar- quired to be given by such vessels under the several
ture from the acts of Congress laying and enforcing ihe embargo,
thegof
and hada permit to depart an4 be employed in the cod
t6e 3d'section fihery'
of the supple.
m1entary em.

bargo act of

That in the night between the Ith and Sth of July,
1808, at the port of New London, there was secretly
vessel had not and unlawfully laden on board her, a cargo consisting
actually
out of thegoie
pr of barrels of beef, fish, butter, &c., without the knowbefore seozte. ledge and not under the inspection of a revenue officer,
A licensed with intent unlawfully to proceed with the vessel and
fishing vessel.
is liable to for- cargo, to some place without the port, harbor and disfeiture (under trict of New London. That the vessel so laden, left
Janusy 9th,
i8OP, 'f te

hrpa
her place at the wharf in the port of New London, in
any custom house
and without any
licensing yes- custom house papers, and departed therefrom and out
selsforsailing, of thp said port,
the32d section
of the act of

the 18thofFe. the night, without the knowledge of
fruary,
17.g &zofficer, without- a license or permit,
for
enrolling

and proceeded on her said intended
unlawful voyage to some place to the'custom-house ofl.
tent to carry cers unknown. That the cargo was worth more than
'hem to anO- 600 dollars. Tht the vessel was unlawfully employed
ther place,
without a p. in trade other than that for wht.ch she was licensed.
laden with
goolds with in-

ce setherefor,

although thh

he

The facts of the case appeared to be as stated in the
rollY of do. libel, except that the vessel was seized in the act
of
;ustie growth
mrd manufac leaving.the port, but before she had gone
out of the
g
Nre and not port; and that Gates, the owner of the greater pait of
ab Rut Y the Fargo, wN neither master, owner nor manner of
goods are

O-

--

.

the vessel.

FEBRUARY TERM 18im.
PiTKnv ana DANA,

for the Appellants.

sLooP
ACTIVE

IV.

Three questions arise inthis cause.

U.STATES.
-.

were forfeited by
i. Whether the*vessel and cdrgo
being laden contrary. to the 2d section of the act of 2Sthnot

liable to
forfeiture un-

.8e

pril, 808-vol. 9, p. 146, which declares that "cdno lei ber,
,
"vessel shall receive f clearance, unless the lading to the master
r
ccshalffle made hereafter under the inspection of the e
" proper revenue officers, subjecf to the same restric- vessel

" tions, regulations, penalties and forfeitures, as are
-" provided by law for the inspection of goods, wares
,and merchandize imported," &c.
2. Whether she departed from a port of the United
States without a clearance or permit, contrary to the ad
section of the act of the 9th of ,Tauaril, ±808-vol.9.
p. 11.
'3. Whether she was employed in any other trade
than that for which she was licensed, contrs-v to the
324 section of the act of February 18th, 1,

,

for en-

rolling and licensing vessels-vol. 2, p. ±93.
1. Upon the first question, nothing will be added to
the arguments urged in the case of the Paulina. (Ante
.

55.)

The only penalty, under that act, for lading without
the inspection of a revenue officer, is the denial of a
clearance.
There was no lav then in force -to punish the intent
to violate the embargo. The act of January 9tb, 1809,
(vol. 9,.p. 18.) first made it penal to lade a vessel with
that intent.

The libel does r charge the intent to be to export
the cargo to any foreign place, which was the evil intended to be guarded against by all those laws. It was
not unlawful to transport domestic goods "from one district to another in the United States. She had given
bond according to the provisions of the act of January
9th, isOs8(,vol.9, p. u) not to proceed to any foreign
port or place.

SUPREEME COURT VU.S.
sLoop
ACTXV)&

V.
u.sTATEs,

...

.

The- Stir section of-ihe act of .anuary 9th, 1809,
(commonly called the enforczg act) first made the vessel liable to forfeiture for-lading without a permit. This
is a legislative confession that the law was not so before.
It sanctions our con truction of the ant of the 25t&of
April, 1808.
2. It appears from the-evidence that the vessel was
seized withu i the port, about a mile and an half from
the wharf.
She did not cc depart ftom"- the port, and is therefore
not liable to forfeiture iider the 3d section of the act
9f'jfnuary 9th, i8o8.
3. Was the .Active engaged in any trade" [other than
that for which she was licensed] within the meaning of
the enrolling act?
By the'32d section of that act, vol. 2, p. i93; it is declared, cthat ,if any licensed vessel shall be employed
6c i any other trade than that for which she is licensed,
i such vesselj wit her tackle, apparel and furniture,
f,and the cargo found on board her, shall be forfeited."
The object of this provision evidently was to prevent
smuggling, and other frauds upon the revenue. This
is'evident from various expressions and provisions ii
other parts of the act.
Thus the 33d section provides that if the cargo belong to a person other than the master, owner, or mariners of the vessel so trading, and if the duties on the
cargo have been paid or secured according to law, such
cargo shall not be forfeited.
'TI reason is, that the revenue cannot
be defrauded
if the duties have been paid. If then this vessel 'had
been laden with foreign goods, and the duties had been
paid,. they would not have been forfeited, a fortiorz,
would they be exempt from forfeiture, being American
produce and not liable to any duty.
Sol in tne 4th section of the same act, 'vol. 21,p. 17,
bond is to be given to pay to the United States 1,000

FERARV. TRIM 46m

10&

dollars m coe t shall Appexthat the vessel has teen sLoo
employed 01 4P'ntrade, -ivhz.Mby the recenlie of the United AoTIVA
States has been defriauded, during -he tine the license
.
was in force; -and the master is to take, an- oath that u.STATPS.
she shall not be employed in any, traie' whereby, th
.revenue may be defrauded.
By the 5th section, it is declared that no license shall
be in foree for carrying on aijy dther business or employment than that for which the vessel is specially licensed,
and by the 6th section, every vessdIfound trading, between district and district, or between different laces
in the same district, without being enrolled and licensed,
if laden with goods, the growth or manufacture of the
United States only, (distiled spirits excepted) or in bal
last, shall pay forezga fees and.tonnage, but if she has
any articles of foreign growth or manufacture, or distilled spirits the vessel and cargo shall be forfeited.
The license which the sloop .Acthre had for the tod
fishery not being in' force for the coasting trade, she
was f6und trading between different places in the same
distric.t Nfthout a license, and therefore was within the
6th section .of'the, act; and being lader only with domestic produce, was only liable to pay foreign fees and'
tonnage.
By the 8th sectiou, if a vesell enrolled-and licensed,
shall proceed on a foreign voyage, without giving up
her enrolment and. license, and being registered, such
vessel, and the goods so ?mported therein, shall be liable
to-forfeiture. Under this section the vessel must actually.make the foreign voyage and import goods before
she can'be forfeited.
The 12th section authorizes a change of thew master,
and requires the -new master, or the .owner, to make
oath that the Vessel shall not, while the license continues
in force, be employed in any manner whereby the reove
nue may be defrauded.
• ly'the 2ist section, a licened fishing vessel tradin$
to a foreign port without a license or permit therefor,
is only liable to forfeiture, in case she be found witbin
three leagues of the coast with foreign goods. on board
to the value of. 500 dollars. Domestic goods found on

SUPREIE' COURT V. -S.
s.oop
ACTxvE

10.
v.STATns.

board are not liable to forfeiture. It cannot therefore

be supposed that the legislature intended to render such.
a vessel liable to forfeiturerfor carrying domestic goods,

upon which no duties were payable from one part of a
port to another.
The act of taking on board certain domestic goods
and carrying them from ofie part of the port to another
is not such a trade as was contemplated in the- 32d section ofthe act. Such a construction would be contrary
to the spirit of the whole act.
All that can be said is, -that she took in the goods
with intent to trade, but this is ndt trading. Such an
mi-tent is not punishable.

-DALLAs, .ttorney. of the United States for ihe Distrtct
of FennsYltvdma, and PxwrcNzy, .attorney General of the
United States-for Appeltees.
The parties engaged in this transaction were conscious .that it was an unlawful business. This vessel was
confined by law to the cod fishery. She could not lawfully carry on the -coasting trade.
She was laden in the night, and was towing out of
the harbor when she was seized. Gates, who claims
the cargo, appears to be master for that voyage-at
least he had the use of the vessel, and was on board
and there was no other master.
t. The first enquiry is, whether this vessel is liable
to forfeiture under the embargo law, and

2. Whether she is liable under the enrolling and li.
censing act.
:. She departed from a port of the United States
without a clearance or permit, contrary to the act of
January-9th, 1808-vol. 9, p. 11. (i 3.
To-depart from a port, does not mean to go out of
the port. She departed from the port when she set
sail to leave the port-when she broke ground. This
is the construction always given to policies, when the
Insurance is from (not at and from) a certain porto

FEBRUARY TERM. i81.
The protection of the revenue was. not the only stooP
..
-bject of the prohibition to use the license for another ACTIVE
v.
purpose than that for which it was given. it was materiat to know in what kid of trade every vessel wa U.sTATEs.
engaged. All the sections which have been cited show
that it was the intention of the legislature to prohibit
the vessel from engaging in any other employment
than that for which she was licensed, although such
employment should not in -any manner affect the revenue. It is a plain and express prohibition under the
penalty of forfeitue of vessel and cargo-and it-is unnecessary to enquire into the m-otives of the legislature.
She was engaged in the business of carrying goods
from one place to another-and this was n employment or trade for which she had no license. She was
as much engaged in trade at the nception as she would
have been at the consummation of the vbyage. It was
not necessary that she should have finished the voyage,
or have been engaged in buying and selling.
'February26.
MA&snm, Chief Justice, delivered the opiiuon of the
court as follows:*
The sloop Active, a vessel licensed for the fishing
trade, was laden, in the night of the 4th of July in the
year i808,in the port of New London, and-was seized
by the revenue officer, after having left the wharf without a clearance, under circumstances which justify a
belief that she was about'to proceed on a foreign voyage in violation of the acts laying an embargo. The
vessel and cargo were libelled as having been forfeited
under the laws of. the United States, and were both
condemned in the District Court, which sentence was
affirmed in the Circuit Court.
This sentence is supported on the part of the United
States under the 3d section of the supplementary act to
the act laying an embargo, and the 32d section of the
act for enrolling and licensing ships or vessels to be
employed in the coasting, trade and fisheries.
'Judge

Todd waabsent in consequence of indispoiltion.

VOL. VII.

I

"106

SLoop

This court is of opimon , that however criminal the

ACTIvi

v.
u.sTAT s.

-

SUPREM4E couIrnr-U. S-

mtentions -of those on board the Active might have
been, neither the vessel nor cargo were forfeited under
the. 3d section. of the ,6act supplementary to the act, en-.
titled an act laying an embargo on all ships and vessels
in the ports and harbors of the United States," because
she appears to' have been seized in port, and a departurd from port without a clearance was necessary to
consummate the offence.
The case is undoubtedly'within. th words of the s2d
section of the enrolling, and licensing act. The Active
was a licensed vessel employed in a trade other than
that for which she was licensed.
The argument that this act was intended merely to
secure the revpnue, and that its provisions dO not contemplate a vessel laden.with domestic produce not subject to duty, has been urged.with great force and certainly derives much strength from 'the various sections
of the act which have been quoted. But the words of
the 32d section are explicit, and although other preceding sections furnish much reason for believing that
a forfeiture in a case where the revenue could not be
defrauded, might not be contemplated by the legislature,
yet they are not so expressed as to control the 32d section. The Active and her cargo, therefore, must be
considered as forfeited, except so far as they -come
within the 33d section.

That section is in these words. is Provided neverthe."less, and be it further enacted, 'That in all cases
"where the whole or.any part of the lading, or cargo
"on board, any ship or vessel, shall belong, bona fide,
"to any person or persons other than the master, oWer, or mariners, of such ship or vessel, and upon
which the duties shall have been previously paid or
6* secured, according to law, shall he. exempted-from
"any forfeiture under this act, any thing therein con",tamed to the contrary notwithstanding."
In this case the libel states,$hat
Billings andMorgan were owners of the vessel, and a certain
Gates- owner of the cargo. A claim is
fild by Billings -and Morgan fr the vessel, and part of

FEBRUARY TERM M8i2.

1o7

the cargo, and by Gates.for the residue of the cargo, sLooP
It appearsi then, both from the libel and claim, that a AcTIvB
V.
part of the cargo did " belong, bona fide, to a person
other than the master, owner or mariners of the ship U.sTATES.
or vessel." This part of the cargo comes completely
within that part of the description which relates to .the
ownership of the property But the goods on board
being liable to no duty, the duties could not have been
previously paid or secured..
'li'e ourt considers this section as manifesting a
clear intention in the legislature to exempt from forfeiture.a cargo not belonging to the owner, master or
mariners, provided that cargo was not liable to duties.
Whether thins condition was produced by a previous
paynent of duties, orby a perfect exemption from duties, must be immaterial. Duties cannot be paid or sesured, according to law, on goods not liable, by law, to
duty. The legislature must be.uuderstood, when saying cc upon winch the duties have been previously paid
or secured according to law," to mean, "cupon wnch
the duties, if anuy, have been previously paid," &c.
It is "theopinion of the court, that the sentence of the
Circuit Court be reversed as to so much of tfie cargo of
the sloop Active as'is claimed as the property of
Gates, and be affirmed as to the vessel and ,the residue
of the cargo.
And it is directed to be certified that therb was
probable cause of seizure.

HAWTHORNE, CLAIMANT
OF THE BRIG CLARISSA CLAIBORNE
V.

.Feb.

20t$.

THE UNITED STATES.
.plesent....611 the Judges.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the District This C6urt

Court, at New Orleans, condemning the Brg Clarissa-MngatI
take new eviClaiborne, for violatiug a law of the United States.

