SUPREME COURT U. S.
It was a consideration of some im'portauce that
he had given Moss a deed of tru&t of his effects to indemiify him against this suit; but-the principal circumstance
was, that Welch's liability would be increased, to the
extent of the costs of this suit, if the jiidgment should
be against' Moss.*

UDDLE

!less.

1o.
mIoss.

JTudgment reversed,

1812.
M1arch

SHEEHY v. MANDEVILLE.
6th.

Present..... ll the Judges.
A note pavable at 60 days,
cannot be
givens III evideuce to sup-

E RROR to the Circuit Court for the districE ot
Columbia sitting at Alexandria.
This cause hawng been sent back to the Circuit Court,

port. a count by the mandate of this Court, at February term

Iio,jcommanding that Court to renderjudgment for the Plaindoes not state tiff on his first count and to award a writ of enquiry of
when the note damages, upon executing that writ of enquiry the PlainThe variance tiff produced the.following note.
upon a note,
which count

is6fatal.
Upon exe1m-

ting

writ of

enquiry in
Virgina in an

,.tlexandru f th July, -80.
"cixtydays afler.date, I promise to pay to Mr. James

Sjheelhy, or order, six hundred and four dollars and
a promisoty 6 ninety one cents, for value received, negotiable in the
note, it is ne- " Bank of Alexandria.
ofns
......

cessary to produce, a note
corresponding
with that stated in the declatlation;
it is not but

R. B. JAMESON."
The note was thus described in the declaratiorf, "iAnd
nees " whereas the Ad Defendants under thu name, firm and
sary to prove "style aforesaid, did on the said 17th of July, 1-861,
the note"The Finiun
"make their certain note in writing called a promissory
cannot
tyi:dencegive

that
the variance

' The same point was also decided
in the case of the Governor of
was the effect Virginia v. Evans and others, at this term; which 'was the case of a lVnd

ofmistake o

nadiertence
of the attorr,', and that

with collateral condition, It was ajoint action; and all the Defendants were

taken, but pleaded separately.
tAnte, Vol. 6, p. 25S.

FEBRUARY TERM isi .
f'iote, subscribed by them under the name, style,.tite sHE. qy
"rand firm of Robert B. Jamesofi, hrearing date the
It.
",same day and year, and then and there delivered the MAijDE,,said note to the Plainti and by the said note, did, VILLE.
"under their firm aforesaid, promise to pay to the said
---"Plaintiff,or to his order, six hundred and four dollars the note pr--

"nnney one cents for value received, negotiable athcd

thnt
ccthe bank of Alexandria, by reason whereof and by tended was
to be
"virtue of the law in such cases made and provided, descrlbedinthp
"the said Defendhnts became liable to pay to the said declaration"Plaintiff the said sum coitained in the said note-ac" cording to the tenor and effect of said note," and being
" so liable, &c.

Which ifote."the Court below refused to suffer the
Plauitiffto read in evidence to the jury, because it varied
from that set forth in the declaration, to this refusal the
Plaintiff excepted. The Plaintiff then contended before
the jury that the existence, the execution, the amuount,
and the 'validity of the note set out in the declaration,
were determined by the judgment of the Court upon the
demurrer, and claimed damages to the full amount of
that note without producing it. But the Court, upon
the motion of the Defendant, instructed the jury that it
was necessary for the Plaintiff to produce the note, or
sufficiently account for its non-production, otherwise the
jury may and ought to presume that the note has been
paid, or has been passed away by the Plaintiff to a third
person for value received, and in such case ought to
assess only nominal damages. To this instruction the
Plaintiff also excepted.
The Plaintiff, then, in order to rebut the presumption
that the note mentioned in the declaration had been paid
or passed away to a third person for a valuable consideration, produced and offered to show to the Court and
jury the record and judgment on the Defendant's first
and second pleas, which had been adjudged. bad upon
demurrer, and also the same note in the said pleas
mentioned to have been the foundation of the suit and
judgment set forth in the said pleas-vhich was a separate suit and judgment against R. B. Jameson upon
the same note as the sole note of Jameson, and which
judgment Mandeville had pleaded in bar to the present
action, averring the note to be the same-but which
VOL. VIT.
2S

SUPREME COURT U. S.
plea was by this Court adjudged bad on demurrer,) and
also the fiert factas issued against Jamcson upon that
-oANE- judgment with the return of nulla bona, and also offered
ViLLE. to prove by a competent witness that the promissory
note produced to the jury9 and in the said record of the
suit against Jameson mentioned, is the same promissory
note upon which the present declaration was founded,
and the same which was intended to have been therein
.set out and described, and that the omission to state in
the aelaration the time in which the said note was
originally made payable, arose from a mere oversight
of the attorney who drew the declaration, and that there
was no other note ever zntended to have been described
in that declaration or answering the description therein
contained, but the" Court rejected the whole of the said
evidence as incompetent, to which the Plaintiff also
excepted.
.n.iiy
T.

The jury assessed the Plaintiff's damiges, and judgment was rendered accordingly at one cent only; where
upon he brought his writof error.
E. 1. LuF, for the Platntiffin error
It being the prime object of Caurts to do justice, the
Court will decide in favor of the Plaintiff if the justice
of the case be with him, unless there be some technical
rule so strong as to leave the Court no ground in his
favor.
:i. The first question is whether there be any variance between the note declared upon, and that produced
before the jury on the execution of the writ of enquiry
What is, in law, a variance? The rule is that the atlegata and probata must correspond tn all naterilapoints.
The note produced was payable "szxty days after
date." The declaration does not state when it was payable. There is therefore no repugnance, no inconsistency, between them. To have made it a variance, the
declaration should haVe expressly averred that theAloth
was payable on, demand. The omission to state a fact,
without. aLdirect averment of a different fact, is not a
variance. 1. Bos. and P'ul. 2M5.

JEB1WRUARY TERM 1822.

1

The declaratibn leaves.it uncertain *hen the note suiEEIy
was payable, but the note itself renders that certain
v.
which had beexi left uncertain on the face of the declara- WIANDL-

tion.

An averment is a positive statement: and is used in
opposition to argument,. or inference. Cowp. 683, 681.
From the statement in the declaration, it is only
matter of inference that the note was p ayable on demand.
But there is no variance between the dssumpsit laid,
and the note offered. The statement of the note in the
declaration is only znducement,.-but in the assumpsit it
does not say when the moneyvas to be paid.
In setting forth the matter df inducement, exact cer.
taintv is not required. 5. Com.Dig, S3.C. 30.
The leclaration states what, in law, is considered as
a parol agreenient-and the action is-a general and not
a special "ndebitatusassumpsit. Under the count of general indebitatus assumpsit, any evidence substantially
corresponding with the cause of action set forth in the
declaration; may be given in evidence.
There is no variance whenever the time or date is uncertainly set forth or omitted. It may be supplied 4y
pleading, or byfinding, and therefore in order to render,
by finding, that certain which is omitted, or which does
not correspond with the statementin the narration, evi.
dence must b heard. Cromwell". Grumsden, 1. Lord
Ray, 3$5. If a patent be pleaded without a date, and
the one produced has -a (late, it 'is
not a variance. 5.
Coin. Dig. 395. Every thing,is form, without which
the right of action appears to the CourtiHob. 233.-5.
Com.Dig. 189. This suit was brought after the note became due, therefore the time of payment was then not maternal to the Plaintiff's right of action.' The promise,
for a valuable consideration gives the right of action.
The time of payment was not material and could not
have been put in issue. 5. Com. Dig. 27
The omission is cured by the statute of jeofails.
irg. Laws. 112. sect. 26.
If after -verdictthe Plaitiff couild notie required to

VILLE.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
spn.EHY show such a note as is set forth in the declaration-so
1v.
upon a judgment by confession, nit dicit, or ion sum inUIDi'- formatus, he is not bound to shew such a note.
..-----...

2. If there be a variance, it is not a material one. i.
Wash. 72, Evans v. Smith. In the bond, in that case,
the obligor -was stated to be 6,of the county of Essex,"
which part of the description war omitted in the declaration, and it was held to be an immaterial variance.

It is omy necessary to prove substantially the cause
of action declared upon. 1. Wasa. 199, 01' Wiliams v.
Willis. In that case the agreement was made by Willis,
,,as treasurerof the jockey-club." The dcclaration oiritted this description, and it was holden no vaiiance.
The reason was that he was equally liable whether lie
contracted as treasurer or not. So in this case the Defendant was equally liable whether the note was payable in sixty days or on demand, the sixty days havmn
expired before the suit was brought.
In the case of Peter v. Cocke, I Mash. 257, the suit
was upon a bond given to U. P ,;-of the couinty of Surrey,
on account of J.ressrs. G. and P merchants tn Glasgow."
The declaration stated the bond to be given to r P.,
without stating on ',hose account, yet it was holden no
va~rlalloev

In the case of r.oc v. WFtshsngton and others, i Wash.
357, the declaration stated an agreement by which the
Appellant was to rent and ftrnish ahouse 7n Leedstor'n,
and entertain one of the Appellees, two of their store
keepers and a servant with meat and drink for one
year, for which the Appellces agreed to pay him for
the three first 261. each, and for the last 81.
The evidence offered did not show any agreement
respecting the renting of a house at Leedstown, but it
showed an agreement to pay 831. in gross. Held ne
variance,
The date of a deed is not of its substance. 2 Co. 5-.
(a) Goddard's case. Upon the same principle the time
f.payment is not of the substance of a contract,
A variance between 'the date of the bond declared

FEBRUARY TER

i812.

upon, and that cited in the award, is not fatal, if they snnriiy
agree in every other particular. 3 Gall. Ross -D.Overton.
1J.
. Hen. and 3Am'n. 237, Lyons v. Gregory.
MAICYE1'ILLE .

In the case of Baptiste -v.
Cobbold, I Rlos. and 1u1W .,
the contract stated in the declaration was for 152 10 0
lbr ,un-moneq, the evidence was a note by which the
Defendant agreed to allow the Plaintiff the above sum
together -vith a pint of 2nin per day-and held no vari.
ance.

The grounds upon which the law requires that the
probata should agree with the allegata, are 1. To appr'ize the Defendant of th nature of the charge; and,
2. To enable bin, by a refeiYence to the record itself, to
plead the judgment in bar of another action for fhe
same cause. The declaration in this case did apprize
the Defendant of the nature of the charge, for he appeared and pleaded to tie action, and by his plea identified the note. The second object is obtained by the
record, by which it appears that the note offered in
evidence isthat which was declared upon. If this note
had been received in evidence, it would have been filed
and formed a part of the proceedings which the clerk
is bound, by the statuce of Virginia, to retain.
If the. reason of the rule requiring the allegata and
probatato correspond, is attained in this case, and if
there was no danger of a second suit being maintained:
upon the same cause of action against the Defendant.
the variance cannot be material.
3. The laintiff was not bound to produce, upon the
execution of the writ of enquiry, the note or the evidence of the debt.
Where there is judgment by default in an action upon
the case on a promissory note, the court will (ivithout a
jury) direct the clerk to ascertain the damages. I H.11.
252, 529, 5-M. These cases were decided upon the
ground that the amount claimed in the declaration is
admitted in the same manner as if the action was debt.
because a swrn certain is demanded, and it isnot like
the case where the cause of action souns in damages,
and not in contract, ascertaimng on its face the amount
claimed,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sHirny
..
MANDEVILLEtF.

-Upon executing a writ of enquiry, the Plaintiff is not
bound to prove his cause of action, because it is admitted as lazd. Cro. Jac. 220.
If the cause of action is admitted, and the note not
required to be proved, and it is to be produced for no
other purpose than to see whether there is any cr-dit
on it, and there should be a difference in the date; yet
it is not a variance, because a variance can exist onlywhere proof is to be made.
The case of Green v. Hearne, 3 T. R?. 301, shows that
upon a writ of en-guiry, it is not necessary to prove the
bill of exchange. tbat a variance between that declared
upon and' that produced is not rmaterial and that evidence delwrs the bill is admnssable to prove that the bill
produced is that which was declared upon. Bayley on
bills, appendix Yo. 7, p. 74, Xills v. Lyne. K jd on b1s,
155. 92 W Bl. 74I8. 2 Stra. 1149. Bayley 66, 67,
Bevzs v. Lindsell. All these cases show that after judgment by default a promissory note set out in a declaration need not be roduced. Sager, ou Damages, 112,
S13, says where there is judgment upon demurrer, the
justices may award damages, the. *amount of the daadmitted.
mages laid in the declaration is
41. The CouIrt erred in directing the jury that they
-,-;ere bound to presume from the. non-production of the
note declared upon. that it was paid or had been assigned away by the Plaintiff to a third pqrson for a
valuable consideration, unless the non-production was
sufficiently accounted for.

The non-production of the note was only a circumstance to be left to the jury to draw such inference from
as they should think proper, under the whole of the
circumstances attending the case. The Court undertook to decide on the -weightand effect of this negative
kind of evidence. Presumptive evidence is always left
to the.ury tlull-v. Horner, Cowp_09.
5. The Court ought to have admitted the evidence
offered to. show that thins was the netb intended by the
description in the declaration--.especially the Defendants own pleas, in which he affirms the note described

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
in the declaration to be the same note upon which judgment was obtained against Jameson, which is the same
note which was prodipced to the jury in the execution
of this writ of enquiry
In the former opinion, the Court admitted the principle that it was competent for the Plaintiff-to accozknt for
the non-production of such a note as is described in the
declaration, and yet when the Plaintiff offers evidence
to account for its non-production, the Court reject it.
A finding by a special verdict, or an admission in
former pleadings is good evidence, unless the contrary
appears. Lee v. Booth, I Meble, 720, pl. 50.
SWA

T, contra.

No time of payment being mentioned in the note, it
is to be taken as a note payable On denzarn. The note
produced was payable at 60 days. Such a variance is
fatal upon an issue. 3 Selwy's .Nfist Pzus, 999.
The principal question is, whether it be necessary to
produce the note on the execution of a writ of enquwy.
The practice in Virginia is to produce the note. Such
also is the practice in England. Esp. . P 180. Tit.
assumnpsit, Sir 1149.
The cases from Bayley, &c. only show that the note
need not be proved, this we admit; but still we conten4
it ought to he produced. The judgment upon the demurrer does not admit the amount of the damages.
JoNEs, '7 reply.
1. There was no material variance. The description
of the note in the declaration, as far as it goes, is cort
rect. The time and mode of payment are no part of
the substance of the contract necessary to be set forth.
It is only necessary to set forth the legal effect of the
note, and as the 60 days had expired before the suit was
brought, it was in effect a note payable on demand.
Dhug. 670, Bristowv. v. Wright.

SHEnY

T.
MA-DH-

viI.

SUPREiME COURT U. S.

1t6

2. Upoif such special counts, for a precise sum, it is
not necessary to produce proof upon the writ of enquiM!ANDE- ry
The judgment by default confesses the wliole sum
vILiE. as well as the, cause of action. In debt, and indebitatus
assumpsit, you could not recover less- than the precise
sum stated in the declaration, and therefore a judgmient by default confessed the whole. And although the
Courts have relaxed as to those counts, and you may
now recover less, yet when the declaration is. for a precjse sum, a judgment by default carries the whole.

MsEBY

v.

The Tule to produce the note is only a matter of dis.retion-a mere rule of practice intended to prevent mustice.
.larcht4Ith.....l1 thejudges being presemit,
IMMSHAL,

as follows

Oh. J. Delivered the opinion of the Court

This suit was instituted on a promissory note, executed by the Defendant, and made payable to the Plaintiff. After describing the note accurately, with the excoption oF' th6 time when it became payable, which is
altogether omitted, the declaration proceeds, in tha usual:form to state, that the Defendant being so liable, asstiuned to pay the stn mentioned in the note when he
should be thereunto required, &c.
To this count a special plea was filed which, on demurrer, was held insufficient. Judgment, on the demurrer, being rendered for the Plaintiff, a writ of enquiry was awarded.
On executing tls wit the Plaintiff produced a note
payable sixty days after date, and offered to prove that
it was the note on which the suit was instituted, and
that the omission to state the day of payment ii the declaration was the mistake of counsel.
The Court refused to permit the note to go to the
:iury, and also instructed them that unles a note conforming to the declaration should be adduced, or its absence accounted for, they must presume it to have been
passed\away or paid. The pury under .these instruc-

FEBRUARY TERI 1812.
tions found one cent damages, for wich judgment was sl EnEH
v.
rendered. To this judgment the Plaintiff has sued out
MANDEa writ of error.
VILLE.

The errors assigned are, 1st. That the variance was
not fatal, 2d. That on a writ of enquiry the production
of the note was unnecessary.
Courts, being established for the purpose of adinmistering real justice to individuals, will feel much reluctance at the necessity of deciding; a cause on a slip in
pleading, or on the inadvertence of counsel. They can
permit a cause to go off on such points only when some
rule of law, the observance of which is deemed essential
to the general admilistration of justice, peremptorily
requires it.
'One of tese rules is, that in all actions on spjciai
agreements or written contracts, the contract given in
evidence must correspond with that stated in the declaration. The reason of this rule is too familiar to every
lawyer to require that it should be repeated.
It is not necessary to recite the contract it hoc verba,
but if it be recited the recital must be strictly accurate.
If the instrument be declared on according to its legal
effect, that effect must be truly stated. If there be a
failure in the one respect, or the other, al exception,
for the variance, may be taken, and the Plaintiff cannot
give the instrument in evidence.
I The plea of non assunipsit denies the contract, and
an instrument, not conforming to the declaration either
in words where it is recited, or according to its legal
effect where the legal effect is stated, although proved
to be the act of the Defendant, is not the same act, and
therefore does not maii)in the issue on his part.
In this case, the. legal effect of the promissory note is
stated, and that effect on a notei having no day of payment, would be that it was payable nmnediately This
declaration goes on that idea, and ilvers a promise to
pay when -required. A note payable sixty days after
date is a note different, from one payable immediatelv,
2Q
VOL. 7VII

SUPREME COURT
iU.

S.

snLzHry and would not support the issue had non assumpsit been
V.
pleaded and issue joined on this plea.
MANDE-

VYE.

Now, what difference is produced by the default of
the Defendant? He confesses the note stated'in the
declaration, but lie confesses no other note. The necessity then of showing a note conforming tbo the declaration is precisely as strong on executing a writ of
bnquiry, as on trying the issue. No reason is perceived why a variance which wopld be fatal in the one case
would not be equally fatal in the other.
The cases cited by the Plaintiff's counsel have been
considered, but they do not come up to this. They are
not cases where the legal effect of the written instrument, offered on executing the writ of enquiry, has
differed from that of the instrument stated in the declaration.
The Court is also of opinion that the production of
the note, on executing the writ of enquiry, wa necessary The default dispenses with the proof of the note,
but not with its production. In England damages
have in some circumstances been assessedwithout a jur,
but it is not stated that those damages have been assessed without a view of the note. The practice of
this country is to require that the note should be produced, or its absence accounted for, and the rule is a,
safe one.
Judgnent affirmed.

I82.
March

CONWAY'S EXECUTORS AND DEVISEES

7th.

ALEXANDER.

If A, advance
money to B,
and B, thert.

Fresent.....1lI the Judges.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the
district of Columbia, sitting in chancery, at Alexandria,

