6UPREME COURT U. S.
FITSIM-

Bioxs &
oTHERS
10.
OGDEN &
OTHERS.

communication as the trustees were to obtain a certain
knowledge of his assent to the agreement of the 16th
September. He had gratuitously offered to do a favor
to the trustees upon certain conditions. They reject the
offer as mad- and propose other conditions. It was incumbent on then to obtain lis assent to the new proposal if they meant to consider lim in the fight of a trustee.
Tile opinion given upon these points renders it unnecessary to consider the question of boundaries.
Decree affirrned, without prejudice.

BRIG JAMES WELLS v THE U. STATES.
1812.
February Sth

aIbsent....JMarshall,chief justicc.
In cases of ad-

I'ratyjuis-

diction, new

evidence will
be admitted in

THIS was an appeal from a sentence of the Cir
cuit court which affirmed that of the District Court of

Connecticut, restorin the Cargo but condemning tho
for that pur- brig James Wells, an American registered vessel, -for a
pose aromnus- volation of the 3d section of the embargo act of Januaion may mue. rv 9th, i808, in making a voyage to St. Bartholomews.
The evidence under a clearance for the port of St. .Mary's, %nthe state
o°that
ne'bcof Georgia. The
excuse suggested
by the claimant of
' 99
.
sity wlleb~ Vill
excuse a wolL- the vessel was stress of weather He stated in his claim
tion of the
and answer, that the vessel laden with 1272 barrels of
7musrgo ve2 four, sailed from New York on the 26th of February,
clear and pos- i808, cleared and bound for St. .1farij's, with a bona fide
itive.
intention of going there, and witliout any intent of going to any foreign place. But that by contrary wznds,
and stress of weather and the leaky condition of the vessel.
he was compdlled against his will (lie being owner and.
supercargo) and against the will of the captain and crew,
to go to, and enter the port of Gitstama, in the island of
St. Bartholomews, in the West Indies, where lie was
obliged by the leaky and shattered condition of the yes.
sel, to unlade the cargo, which was greatly damagedo
and he could not afterwards obtain permission to carry
it away again, but was compelled to sell it there,
this court- and

FEBRUARY TERM im2.
The evidence on the part of the Claimant tended to 3RIG
prove that after the vessel got to sea, and the weather i's. wELL's
was rough she leakel copsiderably in her upper works,
v.
so that in bad weather they had to keep two pumps U.STATEs.
going at the rate of three or four hundred strokes
every half hour, that after being six days'at sea, it was
judged ",best for the preservation of their lives as well as
"for the safety of vessel and cargo, to bear awyay for
"any of the West India Islands"....that when they arrived at St. Bartholomews, part of the flour was damaged, and they yere obliged to unlade the vessel to have
her surveyed and repaired. That the governor of the
island had prohibited the exportation of provisions and
would not permit them to take away thei' cargo.
New evidence which had been taken under a commis
sion issued from this Court, was offered.

'Pbney, .Attorney General, stated that lie could no!
consent to admit it, but wished the objection might be
saved.
He supposed that a distinction ought to be taken between cases of admiralty, and cases of maritimejursdic
tion, and by'the act of congress, new evidence is ad.
missible in this Court in cases of advitralty only
On the next day, however, he said that he was mduced by the particular circumstances of this case to wave
is objection, especially as the question would he madin another case at this term.
HIuiPER -AND PITKiN) for the appellant, cited the
cases of the Betsyf-aul Charlotte -v. U. S. .Ante lol. 4,
p. 443, and Yeatnn '. U. S. Ante Vol. 5, p. 281.
TnE" COURT said' that the admssion of the evidence
in tis case, being by consent, would not prejudice the
question if it should afterwards arise in another casePiTKIN AND HARPER for the appellant.
The plea of necessity by stress of -weather has been
heretofore admitted as an excuse for violating the posi
tive law of the 'mbargo, and the only question in this

SUPREME COURT. U S.
BRIG

case is whether the necessity was so urgent as to j ustify

ss. WFi~s the bearing away for a port of safety We cofitend that
I.
reasonable apprehensions of loss by persisting in the
U.STATES. voyage to St. Mary's was a sufficient justification.

Fraud is not to be presumed. The fact is incontestable that the vessel leaked very much, and the weather
was very bad. Such an apprehension of loss as would
have justified a deviation under a policy of insurance is
a sufficient justification in the present case. And in
juch case it is sufficient tojustify a deviation that the
captain has acted fairly and bona fide, and according to
the best of his judgment for the benefit of all parties concerned, and has. no other -view but to conduct the ship
and cargo by the safest and shortest course to her port
of destination. ,Marshall on znsurance, 408. 409, 410,
By the original embargo act of December 22d, 1807,
the master is to give bond in double the value of the vessel and cargo, to reland the goods in the United States,
"danger of the seas excepted." That act being in pan
matera, the exception of the dangers of the seas ought
to be considered as extending to the present case.
W,ASIIINGTOW,

J. There is no doubt as to the la'w-

the only question is whether this case be within the exception.
Fitkun. It is strong evidence that the master thought
lie was doing right, that lie returned directly to the United States and subjected himself at opce to the penalty
of his bond-and that in fact he obtained only 12 dollars
per barrel for his flour at St. Bartholomews.
DALLASS, contra.
It was the duty of the owner to have a vessel fit for
the voyage.and the season of the year. This vessel was
badly built, her condition upon the former voyage was
given in evidence and was known to the owner when she
sailed. He knew she would leak, and probably he inreuded she should leak. He knew the leak was in her
upper 7works only, and that therefore the lives of those
on board were not in danger. He did not have the pro-

FEBRUARY TEAM 18i2.
p~i repairs made at home which he knew were wanting. BRIG
Nothing was done to her at St. Bartholomews, except i's. w.LLs
caulking, and she brought home her cargo in excellent
7%
order. When they found that she leaked she might have u.STATES.
returned. The wind which was contrary to St. Mary's
would have been fair to bring her back-other vessels
arrived about the same time with fair winds.
Nothing but imminent danger to the lives of those on
board could justify their going to the West Indies contrary to law. The safety of the vessel alid cargo was a
matter of no consideration, as a j us lification. There is
therafore no analogy to the case of deviation.
Feb. 20, .ai tke judges being present,
WASHINGTON

J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows
That the law under which this prosecution is founded, has been, prnma facie, violated, is admitted, and it
becomes absolutely necessary for the defendant, if he
would excuse the breach, to bring himself within the
exception madte for his benefit, not by doubtful testimony, but by such as shall leave no reasonable doubt of
,the sincerity of his exertions to proceed to some port in
the United States, and the danger or apparent iinpossibility of doing so.
That the vessel, shortly after leaving New York,
leaked considerably is proved, bult it is also proved
that the leak was in her upper works, that she could be
freed, and, by great exertions, was kept free of water.
1 is ciearly proved that, after a sail of six days, she
bore away for the West-Indies, and the danger of con
tinuing on the coast is indirectly stated, though no

where positively affirmed.
But it is not proved by a single witness that an exertion was made to gain a port of the United States, or
that the attempt, if it had been mande, would, in the opinion of one person on board, have failed or been attended
with danger. Nor are the state of the winds, or the latVOL. VII.

SUPREME °COURWC U. S.
BRto itude and longitude of the vessel when she bore away.
i's. w iLs given in evidence so as to 'enable the Court to judge.
In short, had the original destination been to the Westv.
u.STATES. Indies, and this known to the crew, it would be difficult
to fix peilury upon any one of those who have given
evidence in this cause.

In such a case, where no presumption can, or ought
to be made in favor of the owner of the vessel, and with
so strong a temptation as he had to violate the law-her
condemnation is inevitable.
Sentence affirned, -with costs.

MARYLAND INSURANCE. COMPANY
10.
LE ROY, BAYARD & MIEVERS-

M82.
F'eb.

11th

.bsent....Marsfiall, chzef justice.
The d&Abarge
erderwrit-

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
ohei
f Maryland, in an action of covenaut brought by Le

liability,
.Roy and others, against th .7arylandInsuranceCompany,
B
of"king upon a policy of insurance upon the Ship Tohn, fiom
o,asef
on board an
additional c -New York to five ports on the coast of 6c Africa, bego,
risednot
byauthothe

"tween Castle D'El na

and Cape Lopez, including those

poliey, de"c ports, and at and from them, or either of them, back to
pends, not up- "NeW York zwith liberties as per orderfor i surance."
on any suppos.
ed increase of
risk, but wholThe order of insurance was as follows, viz: "At
ly on the de- "cwhat rate will you insure three thousand five hundred
parture of the
insured from C ollars upon freight of the ship John of New York,
the contract "c valued at that sum, at and from New York to (Jastle
of insurance.
rte conse- ccD'lmvna, on the gold coast of Africa, with liberty

,iuences
of
a

ofth cont

ccfor the vessel to touch at the Cape de Ferd Islands for

are immaterial 6 and

purchase of stock, such as hogs, goats and poultry
taking in water

