OCTOBER TERM, 2002
Syllabus

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA v. WALSH, ACTING
COMMISSIONER, MAINE DEPARTMENT
OF HUMAN SERVICES, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT
No. 01-188.

Argued January 22, 2003-Decided May 19, 2003

A State participating in Medicaid must have a medical assistance plan
approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). In
response to increasing Medicaid expenditures for prescription drugs,
Congress enacted a cost-saving measure in 1990 that requires drug companies to pay rebates to States on their Medicaid purchases. States
have since enacted supplemental rebate programs to achieve additional
cost savings on Medicaid purchases and purchases for other needy citizens. The purpose of the "Maine Rx" Program is to reduce prescription
drug prices for state residents. Under the program, Maine will attempt to negotiate rebates with drug manufacturers. If a company
does not enter into a rebate agreement, its Medicaid sales will be subjected to a "prior authorization" procedure that requires state agency
approval to qualify a doctor's prescription for reimbursement. Petitioner, an association of nonresident drug manufacturers, challenged the
program before its commencement date, claiming that it is pre-empted
by the Medicaid Act and violates the negative Commerce Clause.
Without resolving any factual issues, the District Court entered a preliminary injunction preventing the statute's implementation, concluding,
inter alia,that any obstacle, no matter how modest, to the federal program's administration is sufficient to establish pre-emption. The First
Circuit reversed.
Held: The judgment is affirmed.
249 F. 3d 66, affirmed.
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to
Parts I, II, III, and VI, concluding that petitioner has not carried its
burden of showing a probability of success on the merits of its Commerce Clause claims. Its arguments-that the rebate requirement constitutes impermissible extraterritorial regulation and that it discriminates against interstate commerce in order to subsidize in-state retail
sales-are unpersuasive. Unlike the price control statute invalidated
in Baldwin v. G. A. F Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511, and the price affirma-

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Syllabus
tion statute struck down in Healy v. Beer Institute, 491 U. S. 324, Maine
Rx does not regulate the price of any out-of-state transaction by its
express terms or its inevitable effect. Nor does Maine Rx impose a
disparate burden on out-of-state competitors. A manufacturer cannot
avoid its rebate obligation by opening production facilities in Maine and
would receive no benefit from the rebates even if it did so; the payments
to local pharmacists provide no special benefit to competitors of rebatepaying manufacturers. West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy, 512 U. S.
186, distinguished. Pp. 668-670.
JUSTICE STEVENS, joined by JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE GINSBURG,
JUSTICE BREYER, concluded in Parts IV and VII:

and

(a) The answer to the question before the Court-whether petitioner's showing was sufficient to support the District Court's injunctionwill not determine the validity of Maine's Rx Program since further
proceedings may lead to another result. Moreover, the Secretary may
view Maine Rx as an amendment to its Medicaid Plan that requires his
approval before becoming effective. As the case comes to this Court,
the question is whether there is a probability that Maine's program was
pre-empted by the federal statute's mere existence. Therefore, there
is a presumption that the state statute is valid, and the question asked
is whether petitioner has shouldered the burden of overcoming that presumption. Pp. 660-662.
(b) At this stage of the litigation, petitioner has not carried its burden of showing a probability of success on the merits of its claims.
P. 670.
JUSTICE STEVENS, joined by JUSTICE SOUTER and JUSTICE GINSBURG, concluded in Part V that petitioner's showing is insufficient to
support a finding that the Medicaid Act pre-empts Maine's Rx Program
insofar as it threatens to coerce manufacturers into reducing their prices
on non-Medicaid sales. Petitioner claims that the potential interference
with Medicaid benefits without serving any Medicaid purpose is prohibited by the federal statute. However, petitioner must show that Maine
Rx serves no such goal. In fact, Maine Rx may serve the Medicaidrelated purposes of providing benefits to needy persons and curtailing
the State's Medicaid costs. While these purposes would not provide a
sufficient basis for upholding the program if it severely curtailed Medicaid recipients' prescription drug access, the District Court erred in assuming that even a modest impediment to such access would invalidate
the program. The Medicaid Act gives States substantial discretion to
choose the proper mix of amount, scope, and duration limitations on
coverage as long as care and services are provided in the recipients'
best interests. Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 303. That a State's
decision to curtail Medicaid benefits may have been motivated by a state

646

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Syllabus

policy unrelated to the Medicaid Act does not limit the scope of its broad
discretion to define the benefits package it will finance. See Beal v.
Doe, 432 U. S. 438. The presumption against federal pre-emption of a
state statute designed to foster public health has special force when it
appears, and the Secretary has not decided to the contrary, that the
two governments are pursuing common purposes. At this stage of the
proceeding, the severity of any impediment that Maine's program may
impose on a Medicaid patient's access to the drug of her choice is a
matter of conjecture. Thus, the First Circuit correctly resolved the
pre-emption issue. Pp. 662-668.
JUSTICE BREYER concluded that petitioner cannot obtain a preliminary injunction simply by showing minimal or quite modest harm even
though Maine offered no evidence of countervailing Medicaid-related
benefit. Proper determination of the pre-emption question will demand
a more careful balancing of Medicaid-related harms and benefits than
the District Court undertook. Thus, its technical misstatement of the
proper legal standard should not be overlooked. Vacating the injunction will also help ensure that the District Court takes account of the
Secretary's views in further proceedings, which is important since HHS
administers Medicaid and is better able than a court to assemble relevant facts and to make relevant predictions, and since the law grants
significant weight to the Secretary's legal conclusions about whether
Maine's program is consistent with Medicaid's objectives. Under the
Medicaid Act, Maine may obtain those views when it files its plan with
HHS for approval. In addition, a court may "refer" a question to the
Secretary under the legal doctrine of "primary jurisdiction," which
seeks to produce better informed and uniform legal rulings by allowing
courts to take advantage of an agency's specialized knowledge, expertise, and central position within a regulatory regime. Where, as here,
certain conditions are satisfied, see Far East Conference v. United
States, 342 U. S. 570, 574-575, a court may raise the doctrine on its own
motion. A court may then stay its proceedings to allow a party to
initiate agency review. Even if Maine chooses not to obtain the Secretary's views on its own, the desirability of the District Court's having
those views to consider is relevant to the "public interest" determination
that often factors into whether a preliminary injunction should issue.
Pp. 670-674.
JUSTICE SCALIA concluded that petitioner's statutory claim should be
rejected on the ground that the remedy for the State's failure to comply
with its Medicaid Act obligations is set forth in the Act itself: termination of funding by the Secretary. Petitioner must seek enforcement of
Medicaid conditions by that authority and may obtain relief in the courts

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Syllabus
only when a denial of enforcement is arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
discretion, or otherwise unlawful. 5 U. S. C. § 706(2)(A). Pp. 674-675.
JUSTICE THOMAS concluded that Maine Rx is not pre-empted by the

Medicaid Act. The premise of petitioner's pre-emption claim is that
Maine Rx is "an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the
full purposes and objectives of Congress." Hines v. Davidowitz, 312
U. S. 52, 67. The Medicaid Act represents a delicate balance between
competing interests, e. g., care and cost. It grants States broad discretion to impose prior authorization, and proper consideration of the Secretary's role in administering the Act forecloses petitioner's pre-emption
claim. The Act provides a complete list of the restrictions participating
States may place on prescription drug coverage. 42 U. S. C. § 1396r8(d)(1). The only stricture on a prior authorization program is compliance with certain procedures, § 1396r-8(d)(5). The purpose of § 1396r8(d)(1) is its effect-to grant participating States authority to subject
drugs to prior authorization subject only to § 1396r-8(d)(5)'s express limitations. In light of the broad grant of discretion to States to impose
prior authorization, petitioner cannot produce a credible conflict between Maine Rx and the Medicaid Act. Given the Secretary's authority
to administer and interpret the Medicaid Act, petitioner can prevail on
its view that the Medicaid Act pre-empts Maine Rx and renders it void
under the Supremacy Clause only by showing that the Medicaid Act is
unambiguous or that Congress has directly addressed the issue. See
Chevron U S. A Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467
U. S. 837, 842. However, the Act's text cannot be read in such a way.
Indeed, the Secretary has adopted an interpretation of the Act that
does not preclude States from negotiating prices for non-Medicaid drug
purchases. Obstacle pre-emption's very premise is that Congress has
not expressly displaced state law and therefore not directly spoken to
the pre-emption question. Therefore, where an agency is charged with
administering a federal statute, as the Secretary is here, Chevron imposes a perhaps-insurmountable barrier to an obstacle pre-emption
claim. Pp. 675-683.
STEVENS, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the
opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, III, and VI, in which

REHNQUIST, C. J., and O'CONNOR, KENNEDY, SOUTER, GINSBURG, and

BREYER, JJ., joined, an opinion with respect to Parts IV and VII, in which
SOUTER, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respect
to Part V, in which SOUTER and GINSBURG, JJ., joined. BREYER, J., filed

an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, post, p. 670.
SCALIA, J., post, p. 674, and THOMAS, J., post, p. 675, filed opinions concur-

ring in the judgment.

O'CONNOR, J., filed an opinion concurring in part

648

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Syllabus

and dissenting in part, in which

REHNQUIST,

C. J., and

KENNEDY, J.,

joined, post, p. 684.

Carter G. Phillips argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Kathleen M. Sullivan, Daniel M.
Price, Marinn F. Carlson, Bruce C. Gerrity, and Ann R.
Robinson.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Olson, Assistant
Attorney General McCallum, Lisa Schiavo Blatt, Mark B.
Stern, Mark S. Davies, Alex M. Azar II, Sheree R. Kanner,
Henry R. Goldberg, and Janice L. Hoffman.
Andrew S. Hagler,Assistant Attorney General of Maine,

argued the cause for respondents.

With him on the brief

were G. Steven Rowe, Attorney General, Paul Stern, Deputy

Attorney General, John R. Brautigam, Assistant Attorney
General, and Cabanne Howard.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States of America by John G. Roberts, Jr., Catherine E. Stetson, and Robin S. Conrad;for the International Patient Advocacy Association et al. by Bert W Rein; for the Long Term Care Pharmacy
Alliance by David C. Todd; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Deborah
J. La Fetra;and for the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J
Popeo and Richard A Samp.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Massachusetts et al. by Thomas F Reilly, Attorney General of Massachusetts, and Linda A Tomaselli and Peter Leight, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as
follows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mark
Pryor of Arkansas, Bill Lockyer of California, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii,
Steve Carterof Indiana, Thomas J Miller of Iowa, Albert B. ChandlerIII
of Kentucky, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J Joseph Curran, Jr., of
Maryland, Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, Mike Hatch of Minnesota,
Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Mike
McGrath of Montana, Philip T McLaughlin of New Hampshire, Patricia
A. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, W A Drew
Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)

Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE STEVENS announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to
Parts I, II, III, and VI, an opinion with respect to Parts IV

and VII, in which JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE GINSBURG, and
JUSTICE BREYER join, and
in which JUSTICE SOUTER

an opinion with respect to Part V,
and JUSTICE GINSBURG join.
In response to increasing Medicaid expenditures for prescription drugs,1 Congress enacted a cost-saving measure in
1990 that requires drug companies to pay rebates to States
on their Medicaid purchases. Over the last several years,
state legislatures have enacted supplemental rebate programs to achieve additional cost savings on Medicaid purchases as well as for purchases made by other needy citizens.
The "Maine Rx" program, enacted in 2000, is primarily intended to provide discounted prescription drugs to Maine's
uninsured citizens but its coverage is open to all residents of
the State. Under the program, Maine will attempt to negotiate rebates with drug manufacturers to fund the reduced
price for drugs offered to Maine Rx participants. If a
drug company does not enter into a rebate agreement, its
Pennsylvania, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Charlie M. Condon
of South Carolina, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, John Cornyn of Texas,
William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Christine 0. Gregoireof Washington, Darrell V McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Anabelle Rodriguez of Puerto
Rico; for AARP et al. by SarahLenz Lock, Bruce Vignery, Michael Schuster, and Robert M. Hayes; for the Maine Council of Senior Citizens et al.
by Arn H. Pearson and Thomas C. Bradley; and for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard Ruda and James L Crowley.
Sheldon V Toubman filed a brief for Legal Services Organizations Representing Medicaid Beneficiaries as amicus curiae.
1
From 1980 to 1989, payments for Medicaid prescription drugs increased
179% while Medicaid expenditures for all services increased by only 134%.
Between 1982 and 1988, prescription drug costs "increased at an average
annual rate of 9.5 percent .. . , more than any other component of the
health care sector." M. Ford, Congressional Research Service Report to
Congress, Medicaid: Reimbursement for Outpatient Prescription Drugs,
CRS-15 (Mar. 7, 1991) (hereinafter Ford).

650

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

Medicaid sales will be subjected to a "prior authorization"
procedure.
In this case, an association of nonresident drug manufacturers has challenged the constitutionality of the Maine Rx
Program, claiming that the program is pre-empted by the
federal Medicaid statute and that it violates the negative
Commerce Clause. The association has not alleged that the
program denies Medicaid patients meaningful access to prescription drugs or that it has excluded any drugs from access
to the market in Maine. Instead, it contends that the program imposes a significant burden on Medicaid recipients
by requiring prior authorization in certain circumstances
without serving any valid Medicaid purpose, and that the
program effectively regulates out-of-state commerce. The
District Court sustained both challenges and entered a preliminary injunction preventing implementation of the statute. The Court of Appeals reversed, and we granted certiorari because the questions presented are of national
importance. 536 U. S. 956 (2002).
I
Congress created the Medicaid program in 1965 by adding
Title XIX to the Social Security Act. 2 The program authorizes federal financial assistance to States that choose to reimburse certain costs of medical treatment for needy persons.
In order to participate in the Medicaid program, a State must
have a plan for medical assistance approved by the Secretary
of Health and Human Services (Secretary). 42 U. S. C.
§ 1396a(b).3 A state plan defines the categories of individuals eligible for benefits and the specific kinds of medical services that are covered. §§ 1396a(a)(10), (17). The plan must
279

Stat. 343, as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 1396 et seq.

3The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is the agency

administering the Medicaid program on behalf of the Secretary.

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of the Court

provide coverage for the "categorically needy" 4 and, at the
State's option, may also cover the "medically needy."5
Prior to 1990, the Medicaid statute did not specifically address outpatient prescription drug coverage. The Secretary's regulations and guidelines "set upper limits on each
State's aggregate expenditures for drugs." 6 Under plans
approved by the Secretary, some States designed and administered their own formularies, listing the drugs that they
would cover. States also employed "prior authorization programs" that required approval by a state agency to qualify
a doctor's prescription for reimbursement. See, e. g., Dodson v. Parham, 427 F. Supp. 97, 100-101 (ND Ga. 1977)
("Georgia has historically administered its prescription drug
program on the basis of a drug 'formulary' or, in other words,
a restricted list of drugs for which Medicaid will reimburse
provider pharmacists. Thus, any drug not specifically included on the list will not be reimbursed unless prior approval is granted by [the administrator of Georgia Medicaid
program]"); Cowan v. Myers, 187 Cal. App. 3d 968, 974-975,
232 Cal. Rptr. 299, 301-303 (1986) (describing 1982 California
law providing that certain drugs would be covered under
4 The "categorically needy" groups include individuals eligible for cash

benefits under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) prograin, the aged, blind, or disabled individuals who qualify for supplemental security income (SSI) benefits, and other low-income groups such
as pregnant women and children entitled to poverty-related coverage.
§ 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i).
5 The "medically needy" are individuals who meet the nonfinancial eligibility requirements for inclusion in one of the groups covered under Medicaid, but whose income or resources exceed the financial eligibility requirements for categorically needy eligibility. § 1396a(a)(10)(C). Individuals
are typically "entitled to medically needy protection when their income
and resources, after deducting incurred medical expenses, falls [sic] below
the medically needy standards." House Subcommittee on Health and the
Environment of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, Medicaid
Source Book: Background Data and Analysis, 103d Cong., 1st Sess., 167
(Comm. Print 1993).
6 Ford, at CRS-1.

652

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

California Medicaid program only after prior authorization).
These programs were not specifically governed by any federal law or regulations, but rather were made part of the
State Medicaid plans and approved by the Secretary because
they aided in controlling Medicaid costs.7
Congress effectively ratified the Secretary's practice of approving state plans containing prior authorization requirements when it created its rebate program in an amendment
contained in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990
(OBRA 1990).8 The new program had two basic parts.
First, it imposed a general requirement that, in order to
qualify for Medicaid payments, drug companies must enter
into agreements either with the Secretary or, if authorized
by the Secretary, with individual States, to provide rebates
on their Medicaid sales of outpatient prescription drugs. 9
The rebate on a "single source drug" or an "innovator multiple source drug" is the difference between the manufacturer's average price and its "best price," or 15.1% of the average manufacturer price, whichever is greater. 42 U. S. C.
§§ 1396r-8(c)(1), (2). The rebate for other drugs is 11.1% of
the average manufacturer price. See § 1396r-8(c)(3).
Second, once a drug manufacturer enters into a rebate
agreement, the law requires the State to provide coverage
for that drug under its plan unless the State complies with
one of the exclusion or restriction provisions in the Medicaid
Act. See § 1396r-8(d). For example, a State may exclude
I "Before 1990, States had routinely required prior authorization for prescription or dispensing of drugs in order to control Medicaid costs ....
In enacting the drug rebate provisions of Section 1396r-8 in 1990, Congress did not intend to upset that practice." Brief in Opposition for
United States as Amicus Curiae 14-15.
1 104 Stat. 1388-143.
9The statute authorizes payment for some drugs not covered by rebate
agreements if a State determines that their availability is essential to the
health of beneficiaries, if they have been given a special rating by the
Federal Food and Drug Administration, and if a doctor has obtained prior
authorization for their use. See 42 U. S. C. § 1396r-8(a)(3).

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of the Court

coverage of drugs such as "[a]gents . . . used for cosmetic
purposes or hair growth." § 1396r-8(d)(2)(C).
Most relevant to this case, Congress allowed States, "as a
condition of coverage or payment for a covered outpatient
drug," § 1396r-8(d)(5), to require approval of the drug before
it is dispensed. Thus, under OBRA 1990, except for a
narrow category of new drugs, 10 "[a] State may subject to
prior authorization any covered outpatient drug," § 1396r8(d)(1)(A), so long as the State's prior authorization program
(1) provides a response by telephone or other telecommunication device within 24 hours of a request for prior authorization, and, (2) except for the listed excludable drugs, provides
for the dispensing of at least a 72-hour supply of a covered
drug in an emergency situation, see § 1396r-8(d)(5).
In the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993,11 Congress further amended the Act to allow the States to use
formularies subject to strict limitations. That amendment
expressly stated that a prior authorization program that
complies with the 24-hour and 72-hour conditions is not subject to the limitations imposed on formularies.12 The 1993
amendment reenacted the provisions for state prior authorization programs that had been included in OBRA 1990, omitting, however, the narrow exception for new drugs.
II
In 2000, the Maine Legislature established the Maine Rx
Program "to reduce prescription drug prices for residents of
the State." Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22, § 2681 (West Supp.
""A State may not exclude for coverage, subject to prior authorization,
or otherwise restrict any new biological or drug approved by the Food
and Drug Administration after the date of enactment of this section, for a
period of 6 months after such approval." 104 Stat. 1388-150, § 1927(d)(6).
11107 Stat. 613.
12 "A prior authorization program established by a State under paragraph (5) is not a formulary subject to the requirements of this paragraph." § 1396r-8(d)(4).

654

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

2002). The statute provides that "the State [shall] act as a
pharmacy benefit manager in order to make prescription
drugs more affordable for qualified Maine residents, thereby
increasing the overall health of Maine residents, promoting
healthy communities and protecting the public health and
welfare." §2681(1). The program is intended to enable in-

dividuals to buy drugs from retail pharmacies at a discount
roughly equal to the rebate on Medicaid purchases. See
§ 2681(4).
The statute provides that any manufacturer or "labeler" 13
selling drugs in Maine through any publicly supported financial assistance program "shall enter into a rebate agreement" with the State Commissioner of Human Services
(Commissioner). §2681(3). The Commissioner is directed
to use his best efforts to obtain a rebate that is at least equal
to the rebate calculated under the federal program created
pursuant to OBRA 1990. See §2681(4). Rebates are to be
paid into a fund administered by the Commissioner, and then
distributed to participating pharmacies to compensate them
for selling at discounted prices. §2681(6).
For those manufacturers that do not enter into rebate
agreements, there are two consequences: First, their nonparticipation is information that the Department of Human
Services must release "to health care providers and the public." § 2681(7). Second, and more importantly for our purposes, the "department shall impose prior authorization requirements in the Medicaid program under this Title, as
permitted by law, for the dispensing of prescription drugs
provided by those [nonparticipating] manufacturers and labelers." Ibid.
The statute authorizes the department to adopt implementing rules. §2681(14). The rules that have been proposed would limit access to the program to individuals who
13A "labeler" is a person who receives prescription drugs from a manufacturer or wholesaler and repackages them for later retail sale.
§ 2681(2)(C).

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of the Court

do "not have a comparable or superior prescription drug benefit plan." 14 The proposed rules also explain that Maine intends to appoint a "Drug Utilization Review Committee,"
composed of physicians and pharmacists who will evaluate
each drug manufactured by a company that has declined to
enter into a rebate agreement to decide whether it is clini-15
cally appropriate to subject the drug to prior authorization.
The State represents that it "certainly will not subject any
single-source drug that fulfills a unique therapeutic function
to the prior authorization process" even if its manufacturer
does not enter into a rebate agreement. 16 The determination "whether a particular drug should be subjected to a
prior authorization requirement will be based firmly upon
considerations of medical necessity, and in compliance with
the State's responsibilities as the administrator of the Maine
Medicaid Program."

17

III

Several months before January 1, 2001, the intended commencement date of the Maine Rx Program, the Commissioner, then Kevin Concannon, sent a form letter to drug
manufacturers enclosing a proposed rebate agreement. 18
14

App. 317. The statute authorizes coverage for all "qualified Maine
residents," Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22, §2681(1) (West Supp. 2002), and
defines a qualified resident as one "who has obtained from the department
a Maine Rx enrollment card," § 2681(2)(F). In describing program goals,
it provides: "It is not the intention of the State to discourage employers
from offering or paying for prescription drug benefits for their employees
or to replace employer-sponsored prescription drug benefit plans that provide benefits comparable to those made available to qualified Maine residents under this subchapter." §2681(1). In their brief, respondents
state: "It would be economically irrational for a person with prescription

drug coverage to use Maine Rx, but if any patient mistakenly attempts to
do so, [the] proposed regulations . . . will not allow it." Brief for
Respondents 7.

15See App. 268, 278.
16Id., at 149.
17Ibid.
18
See id., at 62-74.

656

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

Although 27 individual manufacturers elected to participate
by executing the proposed agreement, petitioner, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, an association representing manufacturers that "account for more
than 75 percent of brand name drug sales in the United
States," 19 responded by bringing this action challenging the
validity of the statute. Its complaint was accompanied by
a motion for a preliminary injunction, supported by seven
affidavits.
Four of the affidavits describe the nature of the association
and the companies' methods of distribution, emphasizing the
fact that, with the exception of sales to two resident distributors, all of their prescription drug sales occur outside of
Maine. 20 Three of them comment on the operation of prior
authorization programs administered by private managed
care organizations, describing their actual and potential adverse impact on both manufacturers and patients. Thus,
one executive stated: "Imposition of a prior authorization
[(PA)] requirement with respect to a particular drug severely curtails access to the drug for covered patients and
sharply reduces the drug's market share and sales, as the
PA causes a shift of patients to competing drugs of other
manufacturers that are not subject to a PA. Because a PA
imposes additional procedural burdens on physicians prescribing the manufacturer's drug and retail pharmacies dispensing it, the effect of a PA is to diminish the manufacturer's goodwill that helped foster demand for its drug over
competing drugs produced by other manufacturers, and to
shift physician and patient loyalty to those competing drugs,
perhaps permanently."' 21 Another affidavit described how
prior authorization by a managed care organization in Nevada had sharply reduced the market share of four of SmithKline's drugs. For example, the market share of Aug1Id., at 37 (Complaint 6).
0Id., at 50, 53, 76-77, 87.
21
1Id., at 57 (affidavit of George Bilyk of Janssen Pharmaceutica, Inc.).
2

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)

Opinion of the Court

mentin, a drug used to treat bacterial infections, declined
from 49% to 18% in the six months after the program was
imposed. 22 In the third affidavit, Dr. Howell of SmithKline
Beecham Corporation expressed the opinion that prior authorization had never been required in one program "for the
purpose of influencing the manufacturer's pricing behavior
in another program," and that such use, "without regard to
safety or efficacy, will lead to drugs being prescribed that
are less safe and efficacious." 23
Respondents' opposition to the motion was supported by
Concannon's own affidavit and the affidavits of two doctors.
They do not dispute the factual assertions concerning the
impact of prior authorization on the drug companies' market
shares, but instead comment on the benefits of prior authorization for patients. The State's Medicaid Medical Director,
Dr. Clifford, explained that "[p]hysicians in Maine are already well acquainted with the extensive prior authorization
programs of the four HMO/Insurance programs which collectively cover nearly half the state's residents" and that the
State had taken steps to "ensure that physicians will always
be able to prescribe the safest and most efficacious drugs for
their Medicaid patients." 24 The second doctor, Dr. Richardson, stated that he prescribed Augmentin as a second line
drug, that the drug amoxicillin was effective in treating
ear infections 80%-85% of the time, and that Augmentin was
' Id., at 112 (affidavit of David Moules of SmithKline Beecham Corp.).
' Id., at 103-104. Dr. Howell further stated: "Prior authorization is
often employed by managed care organizations ('MCOs') to enforce a drug
formulary and is usually intended to limit the drugs to be prescribed by
health care professionals. MCOs typically require health care professionals to obtain prior authorization from the MCO before prescribing a drug
(1) to ensure proper use of prescription drugs with a high potential for
inappropriate use, (2) to limit the use of prescription drugs with severe or
life threatening side effects and/or drug interactions; and (3) to encourage
the use of cost-effective medications without diminishing safety or efficacy."
Id., at 102-103.
24
Id., at 149-150.

658

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

"3 to 6 times as expensive" as amoxicillin.2 5 Concannon's
affidavit described the composition of a committee of physicians and pharmacists that would "make the final determination of the clinical appropriateness of any recommendation
that a prior authorization requirement be imposed with respect to a particular prescription drug manufactured by a
manufacturer which has not entered into a Maine Rx Re' 26
bate Agreement.
Without resolving any factual issues, the District Court
granted petitioner's motion for a preliminary injunction.
Relying on Healy v. Beer Institute, 491 U. S. 324, 336 (1989),
the court first held that Maine had no power to regulate the
prices paid to drug manufacturers in transactions that occur
out of the State. Recognizing that some of their sales were
made to two distributors in Maine, the court further held
that the Medicaid Act pre-empted Maine's Rx Program insofar as it threatened to impose a prior authorization requirement on nonparticipating manufacturers. In so holding, the
court assumed for the purpose of the decision that the "'Department of Human Services will not deny a single Medicaid
recipient access to the safest and most efficacious prescription drug therapy indicated for their individual medical circumstances.' "27 In that court's view, pre-emption was nevertheless required because "Maine can point to no Medicaid
purpose in this new prior authorization requirement that
Maine has added for Medicaid prescription drugs. Maine
has not just passed a law that might conflict with the objectives of a federal law. It has actually taken the federal Medicaid program and altered it to serve Maine's local purposes." 28 In the District Court's view, the fact that the
?Id., at 154.
26
Id., at 167.
1 Civ. No. 00-157-B-H (D. Me., Oct. 26, 2000), App. to Pet. for Cert. 68.
'Ibid. The court further observed: "If Maine can use its authority
over Medicaid authorization to leverage drug manufacturer rebates for the

benefit of uninsured citizens, then it can just as easily put the rebates into

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of the Court

alteration served purposes outside the scope of the Medicaid
program and created an obstacle to the administration of the
federal program was sufficient to establish pre-emption: "No
matter how modest an obstacle the new prior authorization
amounts to (the parties disagree on the severity of the obstacle), it is an obstacle-drugs on the list must be approved
by the state Medicaid Medical Director before they can be
dispensed. .. ."
The Court of Appeals disagreed with the District Court's
analysis of the pre-emption issue for three reasons. First,
since the federal statute expressly authorizes use of prior
authorization, it found "no conflict between the Maine Act
and Medicaid's structure and purpose." 249 F. 3d 66, 75
(CAl 2001). In its view, as long as there is compliance with
the federal 24- and 72-hour conditions, the State's motivation
for imposing the requirement is irrelevant. Second, given
the absence of an actual conflict, the court found that the
mere fact that Maine Rx "fails to directly advance the purpose of the federal program" is an insufficient basis for
"inflicting the 'strong medicine' of preemption" on a state
statute. Id., at 76. Third, the court further stated that, assuming the relevance of the State's motivation, "the Maine
Rx Program furthers Medicaid's aim of providing medical
services to those whose 'income and resources are insufficient to meet the costs of necessary medical services,' 42
U. S. C. § 1396, even if the individuals covered by the Maine
Rx Program are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid."
Ibid. Moreover, the court held that there is evidence that
making prescription drugs more accessible to the uninsured
may keep some of them off Medicaid thereby minimizing the
State's Medicaid expenditures.
The Court of Appeals also reviewed the affidavits and concluded that they "fall short of establishing that the Act will
a state program for highway and bridge construction or school funding."
Ibid.
2

Ibid.

660

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

inflict inevitable or even probable harm" on Medicaid patients, and thus were insufficient to support a pre-emptionbased facial challenge. Id., at 78. The court did, however,
express concern that the prior authorization requirement
might affect the quality of medical care for Medicaid recipients in subtle ways, such as inconveniencing prescribing physicians. It therefore expressly preserved petitioner's right
to renew its pre-emption challenge after implementation of
the program "should there be evidence that Medicaid recipients are harmed by the prior authorization requirement 'as
applied."' Ibid. The Court also found no violation of the
dormant Commerce Clause and vacated the temporary injunction, but stayed its mandate pending our review of the
case.
IV
The question before us is whether the District Court
abused its discretion when it entered the preliminary injunction. See Doran v. Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U. S. 922, 931-932
(1975). By no means will our answer to that question finally
determine the validity of Maine's Rx Program. The District
Court did not conduct an evidentiary hearing and did not
resolve any factual disputes raised by the affidavits filed by
the parties. Accordingly, no matter how we answer the
question whether petitioner's showing was sufficient to support the injunction, further proceedings in this case may lead
to a contrary result.
Moreover, there is also a possibility that the Secretary
may view the Maine Rx Program as an amendment to its
Medicaid Plan that requires his approval before it becomes
effective.30 While the petition for certiorari was pending,
10 We note that CMS, acting on behalf of the Secretary, see n. 3, supra,
sent a letter on September 18, 2002, to all of the state Medicaid directors.
In that letter, the CMS Director indicated that "the establishment of a
prior authorization program for Medicaid covered drugs to secure drug
benefits, rebates, or discounts for non-Medicaid populations is a significant
component of a State plan and we would therefore expect that a State

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

the United States filed a brief recommending that we deny
review, in part because further proceedings may clarify the
issues. Its brief cautioned against the adoption of a rule
prohibiting prior authorization programs whenever they operate in part to benefit a non-Medicaid population, and suggested that a program tailored to benefit needy persons who
are not Medicaid-eligible might advance Medicaid-related
goals. 31 That brief, however, as well as the Federal Government's brief filed after we granted review, expressed the
opinion that, because Maine's program was adopted without
the Secretary's approval and was open to all Maine residents
regardless of financial need, it was not tailored to achieve
Medicaid-related goals and was therefore invalid. Like the
interlocutory judicial rulings in this case, we assume that a
more complete understanding of all the relevant facts might
lead to a modification of the views expressed in those briefs.
In all events, we must confront the issues without the benefit
of either a complete record or any dispositive ruling by the
Secretary.
The issue we confront is, of course, quite different from
the question that would be presented if the Secretary, after
a hearing, had held that the Maine Rx Program was an impermissible amendment of its Medicaid Plan. In such event,
the Secretary's ruling would be presumptively valid. As
the case comes to us, however, the question is whether there
is a probability that Maine's program was pre-empted by the
mere existence of the federal statute. We start therefore
with a presumption that the state statute is valid, see Davies
Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144, 153 (1944), and ask
would submit such a program for CMS review under the State plan
process." App. to Brief in Opposition for United States as Amicus
Curiae
48a.
31
Brief in Opposition for United States as Amicus Curiae 9, 12
("A prescription drug discount, made possible by encouraging manufacturers to give rebates to the State, may significantly decrease the chance that
such individuals will become Medicaid-eligible").

662

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

whether petitioner has shouldered the burden of overcoming
that presumption.
V
The centerpiece of petitioner's attack on Maine's Rx Program is its allegedly unique use of a threat to impose a prior
authorization requirement on Medicaid sales to coerce manufacturers into reducing their prices on sales to non-Medicaid
recipients. Petitioner argues, and the District Court held,
that the potential interference with the delivery of Medicaid
benefits without any benefit to the federal program is prohibited by the federal statute. In accepting this argument, the
District Court relied heavily on the fact that Maine had
failed to identify any "Medicaid purpose" in its new authorization requirement. It appears that Maine had argued before the District Court that such a purpose was unnecessary
because the federal statute expressly authorizes what it
has done.
In this Court, petitioner argues that it could not have been
an abuse of discretion for the District Court to decide the
case on the assumption that the program will serve no Medicaid purpose, even if that assumption is erroneous, given
that the State, insisting that no such purpose was necessary,
offered no Medicaid purpose in its opposition to the motion
for a temporary injunction. To the extent that petitioner is
relying on a waiver theory, such reliance is inappropriate
because the State never represented that there was no Medicaid purpose served by its program; it simply argued that it
did not need to offer one. Regardless of the legal position
taken by the State, petitioner bore the burden of establishing, by a clear showing, a probability of success on the merits. See Mazurek v. Armstrong, 520 U. S. 968, 972 (1997)
(per curiam); cf. Benten v. Kessler, 505 U. S. 1084, 1085
(1992) (percuriam) (requiring movant to demonstrate a substantial likelihood of success on the merits). Accordingly, it
was petitioner's burden to show that there was no Medicaidrelated goal or purpose served by Maine Rx. Given that

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

burden, if the program on its face clearly serves some
Medicaid-related goals, it would follow that the District
Court's evaluation rested on an erroneous predicate. We
are persuaded that there are three such goals plainly present
in the Maine Rx Program.
The Court of Appeals identified two Medicaid-related interests that will be served if the program is successful and
rebates become available on sales to uninsured individuals.
First, the program will provide medical benefits to persons
who can be described as "medically needy" even if they do
not qualify for AFDC or SSI benefits. There is some factual
dispute concerning the extent to which the program will also
benefit nonneedy persons, but even if the program is more
inclusive than the Secretary thinks it should be, the potential
benefits for nonneedy persons would not nullify the benefits
that would be provided to the neediest segment of the uninsured population.3 2 Second, there is the possibility that, by
enabling some borderline aged and infirm persons better access to prescription drugs earlier, Medicaid expenses will be
reduced. If members of this borderline group are not able
to purchase necessary prescription medicine, their conditions
may worsen, causing further financial hardship and thus
making it more likely that they will end up in the Medicaid
program and require more expensive treatment.
A third rather obvious Medicaid purpose will be fostered
whenever it is necessary to impose the prior authorization
requirement on a manufacturer that refuses to participate.
As the record demonstrates, private managed care organizations typically require prior authorization both to protect patients from inappropriate prescriptions and "to encourage
the use of cost-effective medications without diminishing
'We note in this regard that it is estimated that almost two-thirds of
the nonelderly uninsured are low-income individuals or come from lowincome families making less than 200% of the federal poverty level. See
Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, The Uninsured: A
Primer 2 (Mar. 2001).

664

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

safety or efficacy."t 3

No doubt that is why Congress ex-

pressly preserved the States' ability to adopt that practice
when it passed the Medicaid amendments in 1990. 4 The
fact that prior authorization actually does produce substantial cost savings for organizations purchasing large volumes

of drugs is apparent both from the affidavits in the record
describing the impact of such programs on manufacturers'
market shares and from the results of a program adopted in
Florida. See PharmaceuticalResearch and Manufacturers of America v. Meadows, 304 F. 3d 1197 (CAll 2002).35
Avoiding unnecessary costs in the administration of a State's
Medicaid program obviously serves the interests of both the
Federal Government and the States that pay the cost of providing prescription drugs to Medicaid patients.
The fact that the Maine Rx Program may serve Medicaidrelated purposes, both by providing benefits to needy persons and by curtailing the State's Medicaid costs, would not
33 See n. 23, supra.

14 "As under current law, States would have the option of imposing prior
authorization requirements with respect to covered prescription drugs in
order to safeguard against unnecessary utilization and assure that payments are consistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care." H. R.
Rep. No. 101-881, p. 98 (1990).
35"The new Florida law ... exempts certain Medicaid-eligible drugs
from a 'prior authorization' requirement. If a drug is not on the preferred
list, the prescribing doctor must call a state pharmacist to obtain approval
of its use. In the course of this procedure, the pharmacist informs the
doctor of the availability of other drugs (usually on the preferred drug
list) that allegedly have comparable therapeutic value but are less expensive. The actual phone calls tend to be relatively brief (usually less than
10 minutes in length), and approval of the prescribing doctor's first-choice
drug is guaranteed in 100 percent of all cases, provided only that he or she
make the telephone call. During the first three months of the program,
approximately 55 percent of all these calls have resulted in a change of
the prescription to a drug on the preferred drug list. Naturally, because
this procedure may tend to promote less profitable drugs at the expense
of more profitable ones, it is not favored by the pharmaceutical manufacturers that brought this lawsuit." 304 F. 3d, at 1198.

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

provide a sufficient basis for upholding the program if it severely curtailed Medicaid recipients' access to prescription
drugs. Cf. 42 U. S. C. § 1396a(a)(19) (State Medicaid plan
must assure that care and services are to be provided "in a
manner consistent with ... the best interests of the recipients"). It was, however, incorrect for the District Court to
assume that any impediment, "[n]o matter how modest," to
a patient's ability to obtain the drug of her choice at state
expense would invalidate the Maine Rx Program. Civ.
No. 00-157-B-H, App. to Pet. for Cert. 68.
We have made it clear that the Medicaid Act "gives the
States substantial discretion to choose the proper mix of
amount, scope, and duration limitations on coverage, as long
as care and services are provided in 'the best interest of the
recipients."' Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 303 (1985).
In that case, we rejected a challenge brought by a class of
handicapped persons to a Tennessee cost-saving measure
that reduced the number of annual days of inpatient hospital
care for Medicaid patients from 20 to 14, emphasizing that
the change did not deny beneficiaries "meaningful access"
to medical services. Id., at 302, 306. The District Court's
finding that the 14-day limitation would fully serve 95% of
handicapped individuals eligible for Medicaid satisfied the
statutory standard.
In this case, the District Court made no comparable finding, but assumed that Maine would fully comply with all federal requirements and "not deny a single Medicaid recipient
access to the safest and most efficacious prescription drug
therapy indicated for their [sic] individual medical circumstances. ' 36 The District Court's assumption gave appropriate credence to the affidavits filed on behalf of the State,
and, under our reasoning in Alexander, reflects compliance
with the statutory standard.
3 Civ. No. 00-157-B-H, App. to Pet. for Cert. 68 (internal quotation
marks omitted).

666

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

The fact that a State's decision to curtail Medicaid benefits
may have been motivated by a state policy unrelated to the
Medicaid Act does not limit the scope of its broad discretion
to define the package of benefits it will finance. In Beal v.
Doe, 432 U. S. 438 (1977), despite accepting the plaintiffs'
submission that nontherapeutic abortions are both less dangerous and less expensive than childbirth, we held that Pennsylvania's interest in encouraging normal childbirth provided
an adequate justification for its decision to exclude the abortion procedure from its Medicaid program. Maine's interest
in protecting the health of its uninsured residents also provides a plainly permissible justification for a prior authorization requirement that is assumed to have only a minimal impact on Medicaid recipients' access to prescription drugs.
The Medicaid Act contains no categorical prohibition against
reliance on state interests unrelated to the Medicaid program
itself when a State is fashioning the particular contours of
its own program. It retains the "considerable latitude" that
characterizes optional participation in a jointly financed ben7
efit program.3

The presumption against federal pre-emption of a state
statute designed to foster public health, Hillsborough
County v. Automated Medical Laboratories,Inc., 471 U. S.
707, 715-718 (1985), has special force when it appears, and
the Secretary has not decided to the contrary, that the two
governments are pursuing "common purposes," New York
State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino, 413 U. S.405, 421
(1973). In Dublino, we rejected a pre-emption challenge to
a state statute that imposed employment requirements as
conditions for continued eligibility for AFDC benefits that
went beyond the federal requirements. Commenting on
K"There is no question that States have considerable latitude in allocating their AFDC resources, since each State is free to set its own standard
of need and to determine the level of benefits by the amount of funds it
devotes to the program." King v. Smith, 392 U. S.309, 318-319 (1968)
(footnotes omitted).

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

New York's interest in encouraging employment of its citizens, we wrote:
"To the extent that the Work Rules embody New York's
attempt to promote self-reliance and civic responsibility,
to assure that limited state welfare funds be spent on
behalf of those genuinely incapacitated and most in
need, and to cope with the fiscal hardships enveloping
many state and local governments, this Court should
not lightly interfere. The problems confronting our society in these areas are severe, and state governments,
in cooperation with the Federal Government, must
be allowed considerable latitude in attempting their
resolution." Id., at 413.
The mere fact that the New York program imposed a nonfederal obstacle to continued eligibility for benefits did not provide a sufficient basis for pre-emption, but we left open questions concerning possible conflicts with the federal program
for resolution in further proceedings. Id., at 422-423.
Similarly, in this case, the mere fact that prior authorization may impose a modest impediment to access to prescription drugs provided at government expense does not provide
a sufficient basis for pre-emption of the entire Maine Rx
Program.
At this stage of the proceeding, the severity of any impediment that Maine's program may impose on a Medicaid patient's access to the drug of her choice is a matter of conjecture. To the extent that drug manufacturers agree to
participate in the program, there will be no impediment. To
the extent that the manufacturers refuse, the Drug Utilization Review Committee will determine whether it is clinically appropriate to subject those drugs to prior authorization. If the committee determines prior authorization is
required, that requirement may result in the delivery of a
less expensive drug than a physician first prescribed, but on
the present record we cannot conclude that a significant

668

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of the Court

number of patients' medical needs-indeed, any patient's
medical needs-will be adversely affected.
The record does demonstrate that prior authorization may
well have a significant adverse impact on the manufacturers
of brand name prescription drugs and that it will impose
some administrative costs on physicians. The impact on
manufacturers is not relevant because any transfer of business to less expensive products will produce savings for the
Medicaid program. The impact on doctors may be significant if it produces an administrative burden that affects the
quality of their treatment of patients, but no such effect has
been proved. Moreover, given doctors' familiarity with the
extensive use of prior authorization in the private sector,
any such effect seems unlikely.
We therefore agree with the Court of Appeals' resolution
of the pre-emption issue based on the record before us. We
again reiterate that the question whether the Secretary's approval must be sought before Maine Rx Program may go
into effect is not before us. Along these same lines, we offer
no view as to whether it would be appropriate for the Secretary to disapprove this program if Maine had asked the Secretary to review it. We also offer no view as to whether it
would be proper for the Secretary to disallow funding for
the Maine Medicaid program if Maine fails to seek approval
from the Secretary of its Maine Rx Program. Based on the
CMS letter of September 18, 2002, 8 it appears that the Secretary is likely to take some action with respect to this program. Until the Secretary does, however, we cannot predict
at this preliminary stage the ultimate fate of the Maine Rx
Program, and we limit our holding accordingly.
VI
Whereas petitioner's pre-emption challenge focused on the
effects of the prior authorization requirement that would fol-8 See n. 30, supra.

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)

Opinion of the Court

low a manufacturer's refusal to participate in the Rx Program, its Commerce Clause challenge focuses on the effects
of the rebate agreements that will follow manufacturer compliance with the program. As we understand the challenge,
the alleged harm to interstate commerce would be the same
regardless of whether manufacturer compliance is completely voluntary or the product of coercion. Petitioner
argues, first, that the rebate requirement constitutes impermissible extraterritorial regulation, and second, that it
discriminates against interstate commerce in order to subsidize in-state retail sales. Neither argument is persuasive.
Writing for the Court in Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc.,
294 U. S. 511, 521 (1935), Justice Cardozo made the classic
observation that "New York has no power to project its legislation into Vermont by regulating the price to be paid in
that state for milk acquired there." That proposition provided the basis for the majority's conclusion in Healy v. Beer
Institute, 491 U. S. 324 (1989), that a Massachusetts price
affirmation statute had the impermissible effect of regulating
the price of beer sold in neighboring States. Petitioner argues that the reasoning in those cases applies to what it
characterizes as Maine's regulation of the terms of transactions that occur elsewhere. But, as the Court of Appeals
correctly stated, unlike price control or price affirmation
statutes, "the Maine Act does not regulate the price of any
out-of-state transaction, either by its express terms or by its
inevitable effect. Maine does not insist that manufacturers
sell their drugs to a wholesaler for a certain price. Similarly, Maine is not tying the price of its in-state products to
out-of-state prices." 249 F. 3d, at 81-82 (footnote omitted).
The rule that was applied in Baldwin and Healy accordingly
is not applicable to this case.
In West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy, 512 U. S. 186
(1994), we reviewed the constitutionality of a Massachusetts
pricing order that imposed an assessment on all fluid milk
sold by dealers to Massachusetts retailers and distributed

670

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH

Opinion of BREYER, J.

the proceeds to Massachusetts dairy farmers. Because
two-thirds of the assessed milk was produced by out-of-state
farmers while the entire fund was used to benefit in-state
farmers, the order effectively imposed a tax on out-of-state
producers to subsidize production by their in-state competitors. We concluded that the program was invalid because it
had a discriminatory effect analogous to a protective tariff
that taxes goods imported from neighboring States but does
not tax similar products produced locally.
Petitioner argues that Maine's Rx fund is similar because
it would be created entirely from rebates paid by out-of-state
manufacturers and would be used to subsidize sales by local
pharmacists to local consumers. Unlike the situation in
West Lynn, however, the Maine Rx Program will not impose
a disparate burden on any competitors. A manufacturer
could not avoid its rebate obligation by opening production
facilities in Maine and would receive no benefit from the rebates even if it did so; the payments to the local pharmacists
provide no special benefit to competitors of rebate-paying
manufacturers. The rule that was applied in West Lynn is
thus not applicable to this case.
VII
At this stage of the litigation, petitioner has not carried
its burden of showing a probability of success on the merits
of its claims. And petitioner has not argued that the Court
of Appeals was incorrect in holding that other factors-such
as the risk of irreparable harm, the balance of the equities,
and the public interest-do not alter the analysis of its injunction request. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
affirmed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE BREYER, concurring in part and concurring in
the judgment.

I join Parts I-III and Part VI of the Court's opinion and

Parts IV and VII of the plurality's opinion.

I also agree

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

with Part V's conclusion. The District Court's entry of a
preliminary injunction rested upon a determination that federal Medicaid law pre-empted the Maine Rx Program as long
as Maine's prior authorization program posed some obstacle,
"'[n]o matter how modest,"' to realizing federal Medicaid
goals. Ante, at 659 (majority opinion) (emphasis added).
Like the plurality, I believe that the italicized phrase understates the strength of the showing that the law required petitioner to make. Ante, at 667.
To prevail, petitioner ultimately must demonstrate that
Maine's program would "seriously compromise important
federal interests." Arkansas Elec. Cooperative Corp. v.
Arkansas Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 461 U. S. 375, 389 (1983).
Cf. Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U. S. 397, 422-423 (1970). Petitioner consequently cannot obtain a preliminary injunction simply by showing minimal or quite "modest" harmeven though Maine offered no evidence of countervailing
Medicaid-related benefit, post, at 687-688 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). The relevant statutory language, after all, expressly permits prior authorization programs, 42 U. S. C. § 1396r-8(d)(1), and Congress may
well have believed that such programs, in general, help Medicaid by generating savings. See ante, at 651-653, and n. 7
(majority opinion). That being so, Congress would not have
intended to forbid prior authorization programs virtually per
se-i.e., on the showing of slight harm-even if no specific
Medicaid-related benefit is apparent in a particular case.
I recognize that petitioner presented evidence to the District Court that could have justified a stronger conclusion.
E. g., App. 57, 103-104. Cf. Brief for Legal Services Organizations Representing Medicaid Beneficiaries as Amici Curiae 14. Yet the District Court's preliminary injunction
nonetheless rests upon premises that subsequent developments have made clear are unrealistic. For one thing, despite Maine's initial failure to argue the matter, Maine's program may further certain Medicaid-related objectives, at

672

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH

Opinion of

BREYER, J.

least to some degree. Ante, at 663-665 (plurality opinion).
For another, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(whose views are highly relevant to the question before us,
infra this page) has indicated that state programs somewhat
similar to Maine's may prove consistent with Medicaid objectives, and the Secretary has approved at least one such program. Ante, at 660-661, n. 30 (plurality opinion); Letter
from Theodore B. Olson, Solicitor General, to William K.
Suter, Clerk of the Court (Jan. 10, 2003). As a result, it is
now apparent that proper determination of the pre-emption
question will demand a more careful balancing of Medicaidrelated harms and benefits than the District Court undertook. Cf. California v. FERC, 495 U. S. 490, 506 (1990)
(finding a state law pre-empted where it "would disturb and
conflict with the balance embodied in [a] considered federal
agency determination"). These postentry considerations,
along with the general importance of the pre-emption question, convince me that we should not overlook the District
Court's technical misstatement of the proper legal standard,
and that we should therefore affirm the Court of Appeals'
judgment vacating the injunction.
By vacating the injunction, we shall also help ensure that
the District Court takes account of the Secretary's views in
further proceedings that may involve a renewed motion for
a preliminary injunction. It is important that the District
Court do so. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) administers the Medicaid program. Institutionally speaking, that agency is better able than a court to assemble relevant facts (e. g., regarding harm caused to present
Medicaid patients) and to make relevant predictions (e. g.,
regarding furtherance of Medicaid-related goals). And the
law grants significant weight to any legal conclusion by the
Secretary as to whether a program such as Maine's is consistent with Medicaid's objectives. See, e. g., Chevron U S. A.
Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S.

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of

BREYER,

J.

837 (1984); Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134 (1944).
Cf. post, at 680-681 (THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment).
The Medicaid statute sets forth a method through which
Maine may obtain those views. A participating State must
file a Medicaid plan with HHS and obtain HHS approval.
42 U. S. C. § 1396. A State must also promptly file a plan
amendment to reflect any "[m]aterial changes in State law,
organization, or policy, or in the State's operation of the Medicaid program." 42 CFR § 430.12(c) (2002). And the Secretary has said that a statute like Maine's is a "significant component of a state plan" with respect to which Maine is
expected to file an amendment. App. to Brief for United
States as Amicus Curiae 48a.
In addition, the legal doctrine of "primary jurisdiction"
permits a court itself to "refer" a question to the Secretary.
That doctrine seeks to produce better informed and uniform
legal rulings by allowing courts to take advantage of an
agency's specialized knowledge, expertise, and central position within a regulatory regime. United States v. Western
Pacific R. Co., 352 U. S. 59, 63-65 (1956). "No fixed formula
exists" for the doctrine's application. Id., at 64. Rather,
the question in each instance is whether a case raises "issues
of fact not within the conventional experience of judges," but
within the purview of an agency's responsibilities; whether
the "limited functions of review by the judiciary are more
rationally exercised, by preliminary resort" to an agency
"better equipped than courts" to resolve an issue in the first
instance; or, in a word, whether preliminary reference of issues to the agency will promote that proper working relationship between court and agency that the primary jurisdiction doctrine seeks to facilitate. Far East Conference v.
United States, 342 U. S. 570, 574-575 (1952); see also Western
Pacific R. Co., supra, at 63-65. Cf. 2 R. Pierce, Administrative Law § 14.4, p. 944 (2002) (relatively frequent application
of the doctrine in pre-emption cases).

674

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

Where such conditions are satisfied-and I have little
doubt that they are satisfied here-courts may raise the doctrine on their own motion. E. g., Williams Pipe Line Co. v.
Empire Gas Corp., 76 F. 3d 1491, 1496 (CA10 1996). See
also 5 J. Stein, G. Mitchell, & B. Mezines, Administrative Law
§ 47.01[1], pp. 47-5 to 47-6 (2002); 2 Federal Procedure: Lawyers Edition § 2:337, p. 373 (2003). A court may then stay
its proceedings-for a limited time, if appropriate-to allow
a party to initiate agency review. Western Pacific R. Co.,
supra, at 64; see also Wagner & Brown v. ANR Pipeline
Co., 837 F. 2d 199, 206 (CA5 1988) (stay of limited duration).
Lower courts have sometimes accompanied a stay with
an injunction designed to preserve the status quo. E. g.,
Wheelabrator Corp. v. Chafee, 455 F. 2d 1306, 1316 (CADC
1971). And, in my view, even if Maine should choose not to
obtain the Secretary's views on its own, the desirability of
the District Court's having those views to consider, supra,
at 672, is relevant to the "public interest" determination that
often factors into whether a preliminary injunction should
issue, see, e. g., MacDonald v. Chicago Park District, 132
F. 3d 355, 357 (CA7 1997); 11A C. Wright, A. Miller, & M.
Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure §2948, pp. 131-133
(1995). But cf. Rosado, 397 U. S., at 406.
For these reasons, I concur in the Court's judgment and
in major part in the plurality's opinion.
concurring in the judgment.
I would reject petitioner's negative-Commerce-Clause
claim because the Maine statute under challenge is neither
facially discriminatory against interstate commerce nor (as
the Court explains, ante, at 668-670) similar to other state
action that we have hitherto found invalid on negativeCommerce-Clause grounds; and because, as I have explained
elsewhere, the negative Commerce Clause, having no foundation in the text of the Constitution and not lending itself
to judicial application except in the invalidation of facially
JUSTICE SCALIA,

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

discriminatory action, should not be extended beyond such
action and nondiscriminatory action of the precise sort
hitherto invalidated. See West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v.
Healy, 512 U. S. 186, 209-210 (1994) (opinion concurring in
judgment).
I would reject petitioner's statutory claim on the ground
that the remedy for the State's failure to comply with the
obligations it has agreed to undertake under the Medicaid
Act, see Blessing v. Freestone, 520 U. S. 329, 349 (1997)
(SCALIA, J., concurring); Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman,451 U. S. 1, 17 (1981), is set forth in the
Act itself: termination of funding by the Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human Services, see 42 U. S. C.
§ 1396c. Petitioner must seek enforcement of the Medicaid
conditions by that authority-and may seek and obtain relief
in the courts only when the denial of enforcement is "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with law." 5 U. S. C. §706(2)(A).
concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the plurality that petitioner was not entitled
to a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of the
Maine Rx Program. I write separately because I do not believe that "further proceedings in this case may lead to a
contrary result," ante, at 660, and because I do not agree
with the plurality's reasoning. It is clear from the text of
the Medicaid Act and the Constitution that petitioner's preemption and negative Commerce Clause claims are without
merit. I therefore concur in the judgment of the Court.
JUSTICE THOMAS,

I
The premise of petitioner's pre-emption claim is that
Maine Rx "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and
execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress."
Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S.52, 67 (1941). The plurality
agrees that to succeed petitioner must demonstrate "that

676

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

there was no Medicaid-related goal or purpose served by
Maine Rx." Ante, at 662. Both JUSTICE STEVENS and
JUSTICE O'CONNOR treat the Medicaid Act as embodying an
abstract and highly generalized purpose that is inconsistent
with the Act's depth. The text of this complex statute belies
their efforts to distill from it a single purpose.
The Medicaid Act represents a delicate balance Congress
struck between competing interests-care and cost, mandates and flexibility, oversight and discretion. While petitioner principally relies on 42 U. S. C. § 1396a(a)(19), which
requires the Secretary of the Department of Health and
Human Services to ensure that state plans "provide such
safeguards as may be necessary to assure that... care and
services will be provided, in a manner consistent with...
the best interests of the recipients," the Medicaid Act also
pursues arguably competing interests such as cost control,
see § 1396a(a)(30), and affording States broad discretion to
control access to prescription drugs, see Pharmaceutical
Research and Mfrs. of America v. Thompson, 259 F. Supp.
2d 39, 72 (DC 2003) (hereinafter PharmaceuticalResearch)
(noting that prior authorization may be in tension with the
"'best interests"' of Medicaid recipients).
The plurality's conclusion that § 1396a(a)(19) imposes a
silent prohibition on prior authorization programs that "severely curtai[l] Medicaid recipients' access to prescription
drugs," ante, at 665, ignores this complexity. In my view,
the Medicaid Act grants States broad discretion to impose
prior authorization and proper consideration of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services' role
in administering the Medicaid Act forecloses petitioner's
pre-emption claim.
A
I begin with an analysis of the relevant provisions of the
Medicaid Act. Title 42 U. S. C. § 1396r-8(d)(1) provides a
complete list of the restrictions participating States may

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

place on prescription drug coverage under Medicaid. Importantly, it says that "[a] State may subject to prior authorization any covered outpatient drug." §1396r-8(d)(1)(A).
The only stricture placed on a prior authorization program
is compliance with certain enumerated procedures, § 1396r8(d)(5). Undoubtedly, the "purpose" of § 1396r-8(d)(1) is
its effect-to grant participating States the authority to subject drugs to prior authorization subject only to the express
limitations in § 1396r-8(d)(5).
This reading of the Medicaid Act's prior authorization provisions is confirmed by its near-neighbors. Section 1396r8(d) allows States to exclude or further restrict coverage (beyond prior authorization) of a "covered outpatient drug" if
"the prescribed use is not for a medically accepted indication," § 1396r-8(d)(1)(B)(i), or if the drug or use is on a list
specified in § 1396r-8(d)(2). That list includes, for example,
prescriptions for "anorexia . . . or weight gain," § 1396r-

8(d)(2)(A), and "cosmetic purposes or hair growth," § 1396r8(d)(2)(C), as well as all barbiturates, § 1396r-8(d)(2)(I).
Furthermore, under § 1396r-8(d)(6), "[a] State may impose
limitations, with respect to all such drugs in a therapeutic
class, on the minimum or maximum quantities per prescription.... if such limitations are necessary to discourage waste
This fine-tuning of a State's ability to restrict drug
coverage beyond prior authorization stands in stark contrast
to the broad authority granted to States to impose prior
authorization. Indeed, these provisions confirm that when
Congress meant to impose limitations on state authority in
this area it did so explicitly.
The authority to entirely exclude coverage of certain
drugs or uses, for any reason,1 again illustrates the futility
' Neither the plurality nor the opinion concurring in part and dissenting
in part (hereinafter dissent) suggests that there is any purpose-based limitation on a State's authority under § 1396r-8(d)(2). Nor can they. The
restrictions enable States to make value, rather than cost or care, judg-

678

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

of discerning one "purpose" from the Medicaid Act. If, as
the plurality reasons, the "'best interests'" of Medicaid beneficiaries require that access to prescription drugs not be
"severely curtailed," then § 1396r-8(d)(2) empowers States
to do what the plurality believes is precisely opposed to the
best interests of Medicaid beneficiaries. This is just a further illustration of the compromises embodied in the Medicaid Act and demonstrates the impossibility of defining "purposes" in complex statutes at such a high level of abstraction
and the concomitant danger of invoking obstacle pre-emption
based on the arbitrary selection of one purpose to the exclusion of others.
In light of the broad grant of discretion to States to impose
prior authorization, petitioner cannot produce a credible conflict between Maine Rx and the Medicaid Act. Both the plurality and the dissent fail to explain how a State's purpose
(and there may be many) in enacting a prior authorization
program makes any difference in determining whether that
program is in the "best interests" of Medicaid beneficiaries.
The mere existence of a prior authorization procedure, as
contemplated by § 1396r-8(d)(5), cannot "severely curtai[l]"
access to prescription drugs (the Court's touchstone for a
"conflict" with § 1396a(a)(19), ante, at 665). Otherwise the
plurality has rendered an interpretation of the Medicaid Act
that leaves it with an internal conflict.
The dissent reasons that prior authorization programs
must "safeguar[d] against unnecessary utilization," post, at
685 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)
(internal quotation marks omitted), of prescription drugs and
ments as to whether a drug should be covered. See, e.g., § 1396r8(d)(2)(B) (fertility drugs), § 1396r-8(d)(2)(C) (cosmetic purposes). Again,
this begs the question of why, for example, Congress would give States
greater authority over the decision whether or not to cover a prescription
hair growth drug than whether or not to subject the same hair growth
drug to prior authorization.

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
THOMAS, J.,

concurring in judgment

control costs, but also never explains how the motivation for
imposing prior authorization affects whether it furthers
these ends. 2 The dissent points to nothing in the record
that suggests that Maine Rx will not limit unnecessary use
of the covered drugs or control costs associated with prescription drug expenditures under Medicaid. Rather, the
dissent merely asserts that because Maine Rx conditions
prior authorization on nonparticipation in the rebate program it follows ipse dixit that Maine Rx does not further
these objectives. Post, at 688-689 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Obstacle pre-emption
turns on whether the goals of the federal statute are frustrated by the effect of the state law. The dissent's focus on
the subjective intent of the state legislature enacting the law
targeted for pre-emption asks an irrelevant question.
B
The plurality and dissent also fail to consider the necessary
implications of the Secretary's role in approving state Medicaid plans and otherwise administering the Act. The Secretary is delegated a type of pre-emptive authority-he must
approve state plans that comply with § 1396a, § 1396a(b), but
is given the authority to withhold funds if he deems a State
to be noncompliant, § 1396c. 3 While acknowledging the pos-

2These requirements, of course, have no basis in the text of the Medicaid
Act. I discuss the dissent's reasoning only because its reliance on Maine
Rx's express "purpose" turns the presumption against pre-emption on its
head. If Maine Rx also stated that its purpose was to control prescription
drug costs under Medicaid would it be safe from pre-emption? I find it
odd that application of federal statutory pre-emption under the Supremacy
Clause should turn on whether a state legislature has recited what this
Court deems to be the proper rationale.
3In fact, the Secretary's power to withhold funds from States that
breach the Medicaid Act's terms indicates that the Act itself contemplates
the existence of state plans that do not comply with the requirements of
§ 1396a(a). Title 42 U. S. C. § 1396c provides:

680

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

sibility that the Secretary "may view the Maine Rx Program
as an amendment to its Medicaid Plan that requires

. . .

ap-

proval before it becomes effective," ante, at 660, and potentially withhold such approval, the plurality does not discuss
the logical consequences of petitioner's view that Maine Rx
is pre-empted by the Medicaid Act.
According to petitioner, the Secretary is forbidden by the
Medicaid Act from approving Maine Rx because the Act itself pre-empts Maine Rx and renders it void under the Supremacy Clause. If the Secretary approved Maine Rx, his
interpretation would necessarily, if petitioner is correct, be
rejected by a reviewing court under the first step of the inquiry of Chevron U.S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense
Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 842-843 (1984), which asks

whether the statute is unambiguous. 4 See, e. g., Smiley v.
"If the Secretary, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to
the State agency administering or supervising the administration of the
State plan approved under this subchapter, finds"(1) that the plan has been so changed that it no longer complies with
the provisions of section 1396a of this title; or
"(2) that in the administration of the plan there is a failure to comply
substantially with any such provision;
"the Secretary shall notify such State agency that further payments will
not be made to the State... until the Secretary is satisfied that there will
no longer be any such failure to comply."
The Medicaid Act cannot meaningfully be interpreted to invalidate state
laws, such as Maine Rx, that do not comply with its express terms, much
less state laws a court concludes pose an obstacle to the Act's "purpose."
State plans that do not meet § 1396a(a)'s requirements are to be defunded
by the Secretary-they are not void under the Supremacy Clause. It is
not apparent to me where the plurality finds the congressional directive
to pre-empt state plans that breach a contract between the Federal Government and the State. Cf. Part I-D, infra. In my view, no such directive exists, and States are free to deviate from the Medicaid Act's requirements, subject only to sanctions by the Secretary.
4Ifa federal statute is ambiguous with respect to whether it pre-empts
state law, then the presumption against pre-emption should ordinarily prevent a court from concluding that the state law is pre-empted. Therefore,
a court's conclusion that Maine Rx is pre-empted would require rejection

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

Citibank (South Dakota), N. A., 517 U. S. 735, 739 (1996).

Petitioner must therefore show that the Medicaid Act is unambiguous or, in other words, that Congress "has directly
spoken to the precise question at issue." Chevron, supra,
at 842. However, given the foregoing discussion of the text
of the Medicaid Act, it cannot be read to unambiguously
prohibit Maine Rx, or indicate that Congress, in enacting
§ 1396a(a)(19), directly addressed this issue. Indeed, the Department of Health and Human Services has already adopted
an interpretation of the Medicaid Act that "does not preclude
States from negotiating prices, including manufacturer discounts and rebates for non-Medicaid drug purchases." Letter from D. Smith, Dir. of Center for Medicaid and State
Operations, Centers for Medicare & Medical Services, to
all State Medicaid Dirs. (Sept. 18, 2002), App. to Brief
for United States as Amicus Curiae 48a.5 Obstacle preemption's very premise is that Congress has not expressly
displaced state law, and thus not "directly spoken" to
the pre-emption question. Therefore, where an agency is
charged with administering a federal statute as the Secretary is here, Chevron imposes a perhaps-insurmountable barrier to a claim of obstacle pre-emption.
I note that the interpretation of the Medicaid Act I offer,
unlike petitioner's, does not require the Secretary to reach a
particular decision with respect to Maine Rx. The Secretary is expressly charged with determining whether state
plans comply with the numerous requirements of 42 U. S. C.
§§ 1396a(a), 1396a(b), 1396c. Among these, as discussed earlier, is the requirement that the plan serve "the best inof the Secretary's contrary construction of the statute at Chevron's first
step, not its second, which asks whether the agency construction is reasonable. 467 U. S., at 843.
5This interpretation has been upheld by the District Court for the District of Columbia. PharmaceuticalResearch and Mfrs. of America v.

Thompson, 259 F. Supp. 2d 39, 69-72 (2003). Petitioner's arguments provide no answer to the careful analysis offered by that court.

682

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

terests of [Medicaid] recipients." §1396a(a)(19). While I
maintain that federal courts cannot use obstacle pre-emption
to determine whether or not Maine Rx serves these interests, the Secretary must examine the entire state plan, not
just Maine Rx in isolation. Moreover, the Secretary's mandate from Congress is to conduct, with greater expertise and
resources than courts, the inquiry into whether Maine Rx
upsets the balance contemplated by the Medicaid Act. Congress' delegation to the agency to perform this complex balancing task precludes federal-court intervention on the basis
of obstacle pre-emption-it does not bar the Secretary from
performing his duty to adjudge whether Maine Rx upsets
the balance the Medicaid Act contemplates and withhold approval or funding if necessary. If petitioner or respondents
disagree with the Secretary's decision, they may seek judicial review, as petitioner has already done for plans similar
to Maine Rx that the Secretary has approved. See Pharmaceutical Research and Mfrs. of America v. Thompson,
259 F. Supp. 2d 39, 69-72 (DC 2003).
C
Maine Rx is not pre-empted by the Medicaid Act. This
conclusion is easily reached without speculation about
whether Maine Rx advances "Medicaid-related goals" or how
much it does so. The disagreement between the plurality
and dissent in this case aptly illustrates why "[a] freewheeling judicial inquiry into whether a state statute is in tension
with federal objectives ...

undercut[s] the principle that it

is Congress rather than the courts that pre-empts state law."
Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn., 505 U. S.
88, 111 (1992) (KENNEDY, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).
D
I make one final observation with respect to petitioner's
pre-emption claim. The Court has stated that Spending
Clause legislation "is much in the nature of a contract."

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
THOMAS, J., concurring in judgment

Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 451
U. S. 1, 17 (1981). This contract analogy raises serious questions as to whether third parties may sue to enforce Spending Clause legislation-through pre-emption or otherwise.
See Blessing v. Freestone, 520 U. S. 329, 349-350 (1997)
(SCALIA, J., concurring). In contract law, a third party to
the contract (as petitioner is here) may only sue for breach
if he is the "intended beneficiary" of the contract. See, e. g.,
Restatement (Second) of Contracts §304 (1979) ("A promise
in a contract creates a duty in the promisor to any intended
beneficiary to perform the promise, and the intended beneficiary may enforce the duty"). When Congress wishes to
allow private parties to sue to enforce federal law, it must
clearly express this intent. Under this Court's precedents,
private parties may employ 42 U. S. C. § 1983 or an implied
private right of action only if they demonstrate an "unambiguously conferred right." Gonzaga Univ. v. Doe, 536 U. S.
273, 283 (2002). Petitioner quite obviously cannot satisfy
this requirement and therefore arguably is not entitled to
bring a pre-emption lawsuit as a third-party beneficiary to
the Medicaid contract. Respondents have not advanced this
argument in this case. However, were the issue to be
raised, I would give careful consideration to whether Spending Clause legislation can be enforced by third parties in the
absence of a private right of action.
II
Petitioner's Commerce Clause challenge is easily met, because "[t]he negative Commerce Clause has no basis in the
text of the Constitution, makes little sense, and has proved
virtually unworkable in application." Camps Newfound/
Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, 520 U.S. 564, 610
(1997) (THOMAS, J., dissenting). I therefore agree with the
Court that petitioner cannot prevail on this claim.

684

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH

Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE and

JUSTICE KENNEDY join, concurring in part and dissenting

in part.
I join Parts I-III and VI of the Court's opinion, and I
agree with the plurality's conclusion that States may not impose on Medicaid beneficiaries the burdens of prior authorization in the absence of a countervailing Medicaid purpose,
ante, at 662. I part with the plurality because I do not
agree that the District Court abused its discretion in enjoining respondents from imposing prior authorization under the
Maine Rx Program. Before the District Court, respondents
"point[ed] to no Medicaid purpose" served by Maine Rx's
prior-authorization requirement. App. to Pet. for Cert. 68
(emphasis in original). This is not surprising. The program is open to all Maine residents, rich and poor. It does
not purport to further a Medicaid-related purpose, and it is
not tailored to have such an effect. By imposing prior authorization on Maine's Medicaid population to achieve wholly
non-Medicaid related goals, Maine Rx "stands as an obstacle
to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and
objectives" of the federal Medicaid Act. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941). I would uphold the District
Court's injunction on this basis, and I therefore respectfully
dissent from Parts IV, V, and VII of the plurality's opinion.
I
Our ultimate task in analyzing a pre-emption claim is "to
determine whether state regulation is consistent with the
structure and purpose" of the federal statutory scheme "as
a whole." Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management
Assn., 505 U. S. 88, 98 (1992) (plurality opinion of O'CONNOR,
J.). We look to "'the provisions of the whole law, and to
its object and policy."' Ibid. (quoting Pilot Life Ins. Co. v.
Dedeaux, 481 U. S. 41, 51 (1987)). Our touchstone is Congress' intent. Gade v. National Solid Wastes Management
Assn., supra, at 96. "The nature of the power exerted by

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of O'CoNNoR, J.

Congress, the object sought to be attained, and the character
of the obligations imposed by the law, are all important in
considering the question of whether supreme federal enactments preclude enforcement of state laws on the same subject." Hines v. Davidowitz, supra, at 70.
Under the Medicaid Act, once a drug manufacturer enters
into a Medicaid rebate agreement with respect to a particular outpatient drug, a State that has elected to offer prescription drug coverage must cover the drug under its state plan
unless it complies with one of the Medicaid Act's provisions
that permits a State to exclude or restrict coverage. 42
U. S. C. § 1396r-8(d); see ante, at 652. Prior authorization
is one such restriction. Section 1396r-8(d)(5) provides that
a state plan "may require, as a condition of coverage or
payment for a covered outpatient drug.., the approval of
the drug before its dispensing for any medically accepted
indication."
Prior authorization is, by definition, a procedural obstacle
to Medicaid beneficiaries' access to medically necessary prescription drugs covered under the Medicaid program. It
nevertheless may serve a Medicaid purpose by "safeguard[ing] against unnecessary utilization and assur[ing] that payments are consistent with efficiency, economy and quality of
care." H. R. Rep. No. 101-881, p. 98 (1990). A State accordingly may impose prior authorization to reduce Medicaid
costs. Cf. New York State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino,
413 U. S. 405, 421 (1973) ("Where coordinate state and federal efforts exist within a complementary administrative
framework, and in the pursuit of common purposes,the case
for federal pre-emption becomes a less persuasive one" (emphasis added)). A State may not, however, impose prior authorization to generate revenue for purposes wholly unrelated to its Medicaid program.
While the Medicaid Act does not expressly bar States from
using prior authorization to accomplish goals unrelated to
the Medicaid program, such a limit on States' authority is

686

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

inherent in the purpose and structure of the Medicaid Act.
As the District Court recognized, a contrary rule would permit Maine to use prior authorization to raise funds for "highway and bridge construction or school funding," and presumably any other purpose, so long as the Secretary of Health
and Human Services took no action to prevent it. App. to
Pet. for Cert. 68. The purpose and structure of the Medicaid Act make clear that Congress did not intend such an absurd result.
Congress created the Medicaid program to "enabl[e] each
State, as far as practicable under the conditions in such
State, to furnish... medical assistance on behalf of families
with dependent children and of aged, blind, or disabled individuals, whose income and resources are insufficient to meet
the costs of necessary medical services." 42 U. S. C. § 1396.
Consistent with that purpose, Congress has imposed income and resource limitations on many of the groups eligible
for assistance under the Act. See, e. g., §§ 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)
(IV), (VI), and (VII); § 1396b(f).
A requirement that prior authorization be used only where
it furthers a Medicaid purpose is reinforced by the structure
of the Medicaid Act. Congress has afforded States broad
flexibility in tailoring the scope and coverage of their Medicaid programs, see Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 303
(1985), but the Act establishes a number of prerequisites
for approval of a state plan by the Secretary. 42 U. S. C.
§§ 1396a(a)(1)-(65). Two such requirements are of particular relevance here. First, a state plan must contain safeguards to ensure covered services are provided in a manner
consistent with "the best interests of the [Medicaid] recipients." § 1396a(a)(19). Second, a state plan must "safeguard
against unnecessary utilization" of services and ensure that
"payments are consistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care." § 1396a(a)(30)(A). These provisions confirm
Congress' intent that state Medicaid initiatives not burden

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)

Opinion of

O'CONNOR, J.

Medicaid beneficiaries without serving a Medicaid goal such
as stretching available resources to the greatest effect.
II
The District Court correctly concluded that the Maine Rx
Program's prior-authorization provision is invalid because it
burdens Medicaid recipients while advancing no Medicaid
goals. Under the Maine Rx Program, the State "shall impose prior authorization requirements in the Medicaid program" on any "nonparticipating" drug manufacturer that
does not enter into a rebate agreement with the State for
drugs dispensed to non-Medicaid patients. Me. Rev. Stat.
Ann., Tit. 22, § 2681(7) (West Supp. 2002). The rebate agreements are designed to reduce prescription drug prices for all
residents of the State, regardless of financial or medical need.
§§ 2681(1), (2)(F). The program thus serves the State's
non-Medicaid population by threatening to erect an obstacle
to Medicaid recipients' ability to receive covered outpatient
drugs.
The plurality concedes that Maine Rx cannot survive a
pre-emption challenge if it does not have as its purpose or
effect a "Medicaid-related goal or purpose." Ante, at 662.
Based on the record before the District Court, I would hold
that the court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that
petitioner demonstrated a likelihood of success on its preemption claim. Petitioner alleged that the Maine Rx Program does not serve a Medicaid purpose. The Maine Rx
statute on its face bears this out. The program is designed
"to reduce prescription drug prices for residents of the
State," and it accomplishes this goal by threatening to impose prior authorization on otherwise covered outpatient
drugs. Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22, §§ 2681(1), (2)(F),
(7) (West Supp. 2002). In the District Court, Maine did not
attempt to justify the program on the basis that it served a
Medicaid purpose. Instead, Maine took the position that it
was not required to demonstrate any such purpose. An ap-

688

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of O'CoNNoR, J.

pellate court reviewing a preliminary injunction is confined
to the record before the District Court, and here, neither the
record before the District Court nor the Maine Rx statute
itself reveals a Medicaid purpose that will be served by the
Maine Rx Program.
The plurality speculates about three "Medicaid-related interests that will be served if the [Maine Rx] program is successful." Ante, at 663. First, the plurality asserts that
Maine Rx "will provide medical benefits to persons who can
be described as 'medically needy' even if they do not qualify
for [Aid to Families with Dependent Children] or [Supplemental Security Income] benefits." Ibid. Second, the plurality contends that "there is the possibility that, by enabling
some borderline aged and infirm persons better access to
prescription drugs earlier, Medicaid expenses will be reduced." Ibid. Third, the plurality posits that "whenever it
is necessary to impose the prior authorization requirement
on a manufacturer that refuses to participate," Maine Rx will
promote the use of cost-effective medications and thereby
"[a]voi[d] unnecessary costs in the administration of [the]
State's Medicaid program." Ante, at 663, 664. Asserting
that these "Medicaid-related goals" are "plainly present in
the Maine Rx Program," the plurality concludes that the
District Court's failure sua sponte to recognize them constituted "an erroneous predicate" for the preliminary injunction. Ante, at 663.
I disagree. I would not say it was an abuse of discretion
for the District Court to conclude petitioner met its burden
in showing that there was no Medicaid-related goal or purpose served by Maine Rx. Cf. ante, at 662-665. Each of
the plurality's post-hoc justifications for the Maine Rx Program's burden on Medicaid beneficiaries rests on factual
predicates that are not supported in the record. Even assuming the predicate assumptions behind the plurality's first
and second justifications-that some of the potential beneficiaries of Maine Rx can be classified as "medically needy" or

Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

"borderline aged and infirm"-it is impossible to discern
based on the facts in the record whether the Medicaid program would reap a benefit from the discounts made available
to such populations. The proposition that discounts on prescription drugs purchased out-of-pocket might produce Medicaid cost savings by preventing Maine residents from becoming eligible for Medicaid is not self-evident. With no
party before it advocating such an attenuated causal chain,
and with no facts in the record to support it, the District
Court can hardly be said to have abused its discretion in
divining no Medicaid purpose on the face of the Maine Rx

statute.
The plurality's third rationale fails on similar grounds.
The assertion that prior authorization under the Maine Rx
Program will necessarily produce cost savings for Maine's
Medicaid program is unsupportable. Under Maine Rx, the
imposition of prior authorization is in no manner tied to the
efficacy or cost-effectiveness of a particular drug. Rather,
the sole trigger for prior authorization is the failure of a
manufacturer or labeler to pay rebates for the benefit of
non-Medicaid populations. Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22,
§ 2681(7) (West Supp. 2002). It is thus entirely possible that
only the most efficacious and cost-effective drugs will be subject to a prior-authorization requirement under Maine Rx.
Maine Rx's prior-authorization requirement would, in that
event, at best serve no purpose and at worst delay and inhibit Medicaid beneficiaries' access to necessary medication.
In concluding that the District Court abused its discretion,
the plurality essentially rejects, out of hand, this possibility.
In so doing, the plurality distorts the limitations on the scope
of our appellate review at this interlocutory stage of proceedings. See Doran v. Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U. S.922, 931932 (1975) ("[W]hile the standard to be applied by the district
court in deciding whether a plaintiff is entitled to a preliminary injunction is stringent, the standard of appellate review

690

PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OF
AMERICA v. WALSH
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

is simply whether the issuance of the injunction ...

consti-

tuted an abuse of discretion").
The District Court had before it, on one hand, concrete
evidence of the burdens that Maine Rx's prior-authorization
requirement would impose on Medicaid beneficiaries. On
the other hand, the District Court had no evidence or argument suggesting that Maine Rx would achieve cost savings or any other Medicaid-related goal. Finding that the
District Court, under these circumstances, did not abuse
its discretion by preliminarily enjoining Maine Rx's priorauthorization requirement, I would reverse the judgment of
the Court of Appeals and remand for further proceedings.

