OCTOBER TERM, 2002
Decree

KANSAS v. NEBRASKA
ON BILL OF COMPLAINT
No. 126, Orig.

Decree entered May 19, 2003

The Final Report of the Special Master is received and
ordered filed.
DECREE
This cause, having come to be heard on the Second Report
of the Special Master appointed by this Court, and on the
Parties' Joint Motion for Approval of Final Settlement Stipulation, which accompanies said Report, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
1. The Final Settlement Stipulation executed by all of the
parties to this case and filed with the Special Master on December 16, 2002, is approved;
2. This action is recommitted to the Special Master for the
sole purpose of deciding procedural questions arising in the
completion by the state parties of the RRCA Groundwater
Model pursuant to the binding procedures prescribed by the
Final Settlement Stipulation. All claims, counterclaims, and
cross-claims for which leave to file was or could have been
sought in this case arising prior to December 15, 2002, are
hereby dismissed with prejudice effective upon the filing by
the Special Master of a final report certifying adoption of the
RRCA Groundwater Model by the state parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 2002

Syllabus

NEVADA DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
ET AL. v. HIBBS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 01-1368.

Argued January 15, 2003-Decided May 27, 2003

Respondent Hibbs (hereinafter respondent), an employee of the Nevada
Department of Human Resources (Department), sought leave to care for
his ailing wife under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA),
which entitles an eligible employee to take up to 12 work weeks of
unpaid leave annually for the onset of a "serious health condition" in the
employee's spouse and for other reasons, 29 U.S. C. §2612(a)(1)(C).
The Department granted respondent's request for the full 12 weeks of
FMLA leave, but eventually informed him that he had exhausted
that leave and that he must report to work by a certain date. Respondent failed to do so and was terminated. Pursuant to FMLA provisions
creating a private right of action to seek both equitable relief and
money damages "against any employer (including a public agency),"
§2617(a)(2), that "interfere[d] with, restrain[ed], or dentied] the exercise
of" FMLA rights, § 2615(a)(1), respondent sued petitioners, the Department and two of its officers, in Federal District Court seeking damages
and injunctive and declaratory relief for, inter alia, violations of
§2612(a)(1)(C). The court awarded petitioners summary judgment on
the grounds that the FMLA claim was barred by the Eleventh Amendment and that respondent's Fourteenth Amendment rights had not been
violated. The Ninth Circuit reversed.
Held. State employees may recover money damages in federal court in
the event of the State's failure to comply with the FMLA's family-care
provision. Congress may abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment
immunity from suit in federal court if it makes its intention to abrogate
unmistakably clear in the language of the statute and acts pursuant to
a valid exercise of its power under §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
See, e. g., Board of Trustees of Univ. of Ala. v. Garrett,531 U. S. 356,
363. The FMLA satisfies the clear statement rule. See Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, 528 U. S. 62, 73-78. Congress also acted within its
authority under §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment when it sought to
abrogate the States' immunity for purposes of the FMLA's family-leave
provision. In the exercise of its §5 power, Congress may enact socalled prophylactic legislation that proscribes facially constitutional con-

