Dec. 1866.]

MITCHELL V. ST. xIAXENT'S LESSEE.

237

Syllabus.

a stay of execution until the validity, of the patent should
be judicially ascertained.
The second case was a petitory action, brought by Sewall
and Hudson, claimants under Goodbee, having for its object
the vacation of the patent, the annulment of the above judgment against Sewall, then pending on appeal ih the Supreme
Court of the State, the recovery of damages, and the obtaining of an injunction. No judgment was passed upon
the merits of any matter alleged. The petition was dis.
missed for want of jurisdiction and the absence of proper
parties, so far as it related to the special relief sought by this
suit-the vacation and surrender of the patent-and it was
dismissed generally on the ground that it was "defective,
uncertain, and insufficient in the statement of the cause of
action."
It requires no argument to show that judgments like these
are no bar to the present suit. In order that a judgment
may constitute a bar to another suit, it must be rendered in
a proceeding between the same parties or their privies, and
the point of controversy must be the same in both cases, and
must be determined on its merits. If the first suit was dismissed for defect of pleadings, or parties, or a misconception
of the form of proceeding, or the want of jurisdiction, or
was disposed of on any ground which did not go to the merits
of the action, the judgment rendered will prove no bar to
another suit.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

[See, as to the second point of the syllabus, United States v. Stone, 2 Wallace, 525.-REP.]

MITCHELL V. ST.

IAXENT'S LESSEE.

1. A -writoffierifacias,tested and issued after the death of the party against
whom the judgment is recovered, is void, and confers no power on the
ministerial officer to execute it.
* Walden v. Bodley, 14 Peters, 156; 1 Greenleaf's
and authorities there cited.

Bv.,

529 and 580,

238

MITCHELL V. ST. MAXENT'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.
2. The rule applies where the proceedings are commenced by seizing property under a writ of attachment, under the laws of Florida, as at the
common law.
ERROR to the District Court of the Northern District of
Florida. The case was thus:
On a proceeding on foreign attachment, judgment had
been obtained in Florida, November 12th, 1825, against St.
Mlaxent, a non-resident, but who owned certain lands in
Escambia County there. St. Maxent died on the 25th day
of November, 1825. On the 26th day of November a fierz
facias was issued. The sheriff returned it December 1st,
1825, " levied on the land" in question. Then followed a
venditioni exponas, but all proceedings were stayed by injunction. Then, on the 21st of December, 1826, a writ offie'ri
facias against the said St. Maxent was issued, directed to
the marshal of the district, and under this the land was sold
and conveyed to J. K. Mitchell, or to persons from whom
he derived title. The heir of St. Maxent having brought
ejectment against Mitchell, the court, on the above state of
facts, gave judgment for the heir.
In this court several questions were raised, among them,
whether the sale to Mitchell, under the circumstances above

stated, was valid.

Mr. Reverdy Johnson, for Mitchell, plaintfifin error:
At common law, if the execution be tested in the lifetime,
it may be taken out and executed after death, for the execution related to the judgment, and might be tested immediately after it was rendered.
The doctrine of relation is carried still further; for if defendant die in vacation, judgment might still be entered
after his death, and execution issued as of the preceding
term.
This rule was liihited by the statute of 29 Car. II, to the
parties themselves, and bona fide purchasers were protected
from its operation.
In the eye of the law, therefore, it is the judgment which
conclusively settles the rights of the parties on the day of its

Dec. 1866.]

MITCHELL V. ST. MAXENT'S LESSEE.

239

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

rendition, and a fiction is resorted to, to prevent a subsequent disability from interfering with its enforcement.
To the like effect is the act of 27th June, 1823, of the
Legislative Council, Territory of Florida:* "The service of
attachment on lands, &c., shall bind the property attached,
and a judgment obtained therein shall have relation to the
time of the service of attachment, and the plaintiff shall have
priority of payment out of the property attached, except as
to valid subsisting liens," &c.
In this case the plaintiff in attachment had a right to an
execution, tested the day after the judgment, and it is clear
that if it had been so tested, the death could not have
vitiated it.
The parties, therefore, have nothing to complain of, and
if this irregularity could be taken advantage of at all, as
against a bond fide purchaser at a judicial sale, it must be
by a direct proceeding, and not collaterally.
Voorhees v. Jackson,t is in many respects parallel to this.
The plaintiff in ejectment relied upon his purchase under an
attachment suit, which was resisted on the ground that none
of the prerequisites required by statute to vest the jurisdiction had been complied with, and defendant had never appeared. The court held, that while the judgment remained
in force it was itself evidence of the right to the thing adjudged, and that errors, however apparent, can only be examined by the appellate power. That it would be a wellmerited reproach to jurisprudence if an innocent purchaser,
who had -paid his money on the faith of an order of the
court, should not have the same protection under an erroneous proceeding as the party who derived the benefit accruing from it. The purchaser under judicial proceedings pays
the plaintiff his demand on the property sold; to the extent
of this, he discharges the defendant from his adjudged obligation.
*
6 Pamphlet Acts, 39. Mr. McPherson, of opposite counsel, remarked
that this provision had been repealed; referring to acts of the Territory of
Florida, 1824, p. 195.
t 10 Peters, 449.

MITCHELL V. ST. MAXENT'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The land lying in Florida was under its sovereignty and
jurisdiction, without regard to the citizenship of the owner,
and the jurisdiction of its courts was ample.
The proceeding was by attachment, and by its levy the
plaintiff acquired a right in the specific property consummated by the judgment. It thus became sequestered in
the hands of the law, and was held for his benefit as fully
as if it had been levied on by a ft. fa. The levy of a writ,
or a levy of aft. fa., stand under the same sanctions. Both
are solemn judicial orders, executed by the officer of the
law, under his official responsibilities; and if this be true,
the case of Doe v. Taylor* is conclusive of the question. On
the objection to the title in ejectment, that the vendilioni exponas under which the land was sold was tested subsequent
to the death, the court held, that as the judgment operated
as a lien on the land, and a prior execution attached "specifically upon the subject of its operation," that "the rights
of the parties to the subject-matter were determined, and
all controversy closed. The law had taken the subject entirely to itself, to be applied by its own authority and its
own rules."
Here the party has his levy and a judgment, which the
court in this case regarded as conclusive, and closing all
controversy. He may have issued a mere "venditioni;" all
he wanted was an order of sale. That he sued out a ft. fa.,
instead of this, cannot vary the rights of the parties, which
were fixed by the levy and judgment.t
An attachment is a proceeding in rein. Notic6 is served
upon the thing itself. Thi is necessarily constructive notice to all who have any interest, or can assert any title.
Every such person is considered as a party to the proceeding, and the suit does not abate by death. As soon as such
process is commenced, and the arrest of the property is
made, it is in the custody of the law. For it is a general
rule in proceeding in ren, that the custody of the thing in
*

13 Howard, 293.

t Randolph v. Carleton, 8 Alabama, 616; Garey v. Hines, Id. 839.

Dec. 1866.]

MITCIHELL V.

ST. 'MAXENT'S LESSEE.

241

Argument against the plaintiff in error.

controversy belongs to the court in which the suit is pending.*
The judgment of a competent court, proceeding in rem,
is conclusive with respect to the thing itself, and operates as
an absolute change of property; and no court of co-ordinate
jurisdiction can examine into it. If an erroneous judgment
binds the property on which it acts, it will not bind the less
because its error is apparent. Of this error advantage can
only be taken in a court capable of correcting it.t
In Thompson v. Tolmie,T the language of the court was,
"When there is a fair sale, and the decree executed by a
conveyance, the purchaser will not be bound to look beyond
the decree, if the facts necessary to give jurisdiction appear
upon the record."
Upon these settled principles, this court held, in the case
of Whiting v. Bank of the United States,ยง that the death of the
mortgagor, after the decree of foreclosure and sale, but before the sale was made, constituted no ground for a bill of
review.
The case now before the court appeals more strongly to
its sense of justice. There, the application was to a court
of equity, which, in affording relief, always compels the
party to do equity. Here, there is an action at common
law, where, if the party succeed, he recovers the land while
retaining the purchase-money for which it was sold.
essrs. Carlisle and 3cPherson, contra:
"That no individual or public officer can sell and convey
a good title to the land of another, unless authorized to do
so by express law, is one of those self-evident propositions,"
said MAarshall, C. J., in Thatcher v. Powell,i "to which the
mind assents without hesitation, and that the person invested
with such a power must pursue with precision the course
prescribed by law or his act is invalid, is a principle which
has been repeatedly recognized in this court." St. Mlaxent,
Burke v. Trewit, 1 Mason, 100.

f Williams v. Amroyd, 7 Cranch, 423; Elliot v. Pearsal, 1 Peters, 340.
: 2 Peters, 169.
VOL. iv.

13 Id. 13.
16

II6

-Wheaton, 125.

242

MITCHELL V. ST. MAXENT'S LESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the defendant in the attachment, having died on the 25th of
November, the writ of ficri facias, issued and tested on the
21st of December following, without any scirefacias against
his heirs or terre tenants, was necessarily void.* This being
a principle of the common law, was introduced into Florida
by the act of the Legislative Council, passed June 29, 1823,

ยง 1.t-

Mr. Justice DA.VIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The solution of one question presented by the record is
decisive of this case. Does the writ of fieri facias, tested
and issued after the death of the party against whom the
judgment is rendered, confer power on the ministerial officer to execute it? That St. Maxent was the owner of. the
lands in controversy at the time of his death, and the plaintiffs below are his heirs-at-law, is admitted; but it is claimed
that the title was divested by certain proceedings in attachment againist him in the courts of Florida, which ripened
into a judgment while he was alive. It is a well-settled
principle of law, which has often received the sanction of
this court, that the decree or judgment of a court, having
jurisdiction, is binding until reversed, and cannot be collaterally attacked. But the defect in this case occurs after the
judgment, and is fatal to Mitchell's title, foi' purchasers at a
judicial sale are not protected, if the execution on which
the sale was made was void. Void process confers no right
on the officer to sell, and all acts done under it are absolute
nullities.
The writ offieri facias on which Mitchell rests his title,
was tested after the death of St. Mlaxent; and, according to
a familiar rule of the common law, it was therefore void.
The death of a defendant, before the test of an execution,
compels the plaintiff to sue out a writ of scirefacias, "for
the alteration of the person altereth the process."t The
heirs, devisees, and terre-tenants of the deceased must have
* Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas, 4 Howard, 58; Woodcock v. Bennett, 1

Cowan, 738.
- Acts, &c., p. 136.

1 Bacon's Abridgment, Title "Scire Facias."

Dec. 1866.]

MITCIIELL V. ST. MAXENT's LESSEE.

243

Opinion of the court.

notice before an execution can regularly issue, for they are
the parties in interest, and should have an opportunity to
interpose a defence, if any they have, to the enforcement of
the judgment. Erwin's Lessee v. Duindas* is an authority in
point, and it is unnecessary to refer to any other.
But it is contended that the doctrines of that case have
been overturned by the, decision of Taylor v. Doe, reported
in 13th Howard. This is an erroneous view of that decision.
The court held, in that case, that it is not necessary to revive
a judgment by seire facias, where an execution regularly
issued during the life of the defendant had been levied on
land, but that the officer who had made the levy could proceed to sell, under a venditioni exponas. Tat writ was regarded as a completion of the previous execution; by which.
the property had been appropriated, and not as an original
or independent proceeding.
It was in the power of the legislature of Florida to have
changed the rule on the subject of the test of process; but,
having failed to do it, and having adopted the common law
of England, the question in issue must be decided by the
rules of the common law.t
But it is insisted that the rules of the common law only
attach to suits prosecuted in the ordinary way, and do not
apply where the proceedings are commenced by seizing
property under a writ of attachment. This is a novel view,
for the law of attachment, being in derogation of the common law, courts are not inclined to extend its provisions
beyond the requirements of the statute authorizing it. In
Florida the service of the writ of attachment binds the
property, and retains it in custody of the law, for the benefit
of the attaching creditor, if he obtains a judgment and execution, and the property is to be disposed of as in other
cases of property levied upon and taken in execution.t
As an execution is required, and the law is silent about
the manner of its issue, it follows that it is to be tested and
4 Howard, 58.
Id. 1823, p. 40.

j- Laws of Florida, 1822 to 1825, p. 136.

PEOPLE v.

THiE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

issued as writs of fier facias are on judgments obtained
through the usual methods of the common law.
The judgment of the court below is
AFFIRMED WITI

COSTS.

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.
1. Shares in banks, whether State banks or those organized under the act
of June 3d, 1864, "to provide a national currency," &c., are liable to
taxation by the State under certain limitations (set forth in section
forty-first of the act), without regard to the fact that the capital of such
banks is invested in bonds of the United States, declared, by statutes
creating them, to be exempted from taxation by or under State authority. Van Allen v. Thie Assessors,* affirmed.
2. If the rate of taxation by the State on such shares is the same as, or not
greater, than upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which
is subject or liable to taxation; that is to say, if no greater proportion
or percentage of tax on the valuation of the shares is levied than upon
other moneyed taxable capital in the hands of its citizens, the shares
are taxed in conformity with that proviso of the forty-first section,
which says that they may be assessed, "but not at a greater rate than
is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State."

TIHESE were two cases which arose upon a certiorari,pros-

ecuted, the one by Denning Duer, as relator, the other by
Ralph Mead, in the same way, out of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, and directed to the Commissioners
of Taxes and Assessments for the City and County of New
York, the defendants in error. The relator in the first
ease was a holder of certain shares of stock in the National
Bank of Commerce in New York, a banking association
organized under the iNational Bank Law. The relator in
the second case held certain shares in the Corn Exchange
Bank, in the city of New York, incorporated under the laws
of the State. These shares, in both banks, had been assessed
in the year 1866, for the purposes of taxation under the
*

3 Wallace, 573.

