Dec. 1866.]

T.E MosEs TAYLOR.
Syllabus.

the discharge was obtained, unless it appear that the plaintiff proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, or in some manner became a party to the proceedings. Insolvent laws of one State cannot discharge the
contracts of citizens of other States; because such laws have
no extra territorial operation, and consequently the tribunal
sitting under them, unless in cases where a citizen of such
other State voluntarily becomes a party to the proceedings,
has no jurisdiction of the case.*
Unquestionably, the decision in those cases controls the
present case, and renders further remarks upon the subject
unnecessary. Demurrer should have been sustained.
JUDGMENT REVESED with costs, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

TiE MosEs

TAYLoR.

1. A contract for the transportation of passengers by a steanship on the
ocean is a maritime contract, and there is no distinction in principle
between it and a contract for the like transportation of merchandise.
The same liability attaches upon its execution both to the owner and
the steamship.
2. The distinguishing and characteristic feature of a suit in admiralty, is
that the vessel or thing proceeded against itself is seized and impleaded
as the defendant, and is judged and sentenced accordingly. By the
common law process, property is reached only through a personal defendant, and then only to the extent of his title.
3. A statute of California, which authorizes actions in rem against vessels
for causes of action cognizable in the admiralty, to that extent attempts
to invest her courts with admiralty jurisdiction.
4. The judicial power of the United States is in some cases unavoidably exclusive of all State authority, and in all others it may be made so at the
election of Congress.
5. The provision of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, which vests in
the District Courts of the United States exclusive cognizance of civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is constitutional.
6. The clause of the ninth section, savihg to suitors "the right of a common
* Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wallace, 223; Baldwin v. Bank of Newbury, Id. 234.

THE MosEs TAYLOR.

[Sup. (A.

Statement of the case.
law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it," does not
save a proceeding in rem, as used in the admiralty courts. Such a
proceeding is not a remedy afforded by the common law.

A STATUTE of California, passed in 1851, and amended in
1860, provides that all steamers, vessels, and boats, shall be
liable1st. For services rendered on board at the request of, or
on contract with, their respective owners, masters, agents,
or consignees.
2d. For supplies furnished for their use, at the request of
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.
3d. For materials furnished in their construction, repair,
or equipment.
4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within the State.
5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for the transportation of persons or property made by
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.
6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or
property.
And that the "said several causes of action shall constitute
liens upon all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority
in their order, herein enumerated," with preference over all
other demands.
The statute also provides that actions for demands arising
upon any of the grounds above specified, may be brought
directly against such steamers, vessels, or boats; that the
complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel, or boat by
name; that the summons may be served on the master,
mate, or any one having charge of the same; that the same
may be attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered; and that if the attachment be
not discharged, and a judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the steamer, vessel, or boat, may be sold by the sheriff,
and the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgment.
With this statute in fbrce, the steamship Moses Taylor, a
vessel of over one thousand tons burden, was owned, in
1863, by Roberts, of the city of New York, and was employed by him in navigating the Pacific Ocean, and in car-

Dec. 1866.]

TiE MOSES TAYLOR.
Statement of the case.

rying passengers and freight between Panama and San
Francisco. In October of that year, one ilammons entered
into a contract with Roberts, as owner of this steamship, by
which, in consideration of $100, Roberts agreed to transport
him from New York to San Francisco as a steerage passenger, with reasonable despatch, and to furnish him with proper
and necessary food, water, and berths, or other conveniences
for lodging, on the voyage. For alleged breach of this contract Ilammons brought this action, a proceeding against the
vessel, in a court of a justice of the peace within the city of
San Francisco; such courts at that time having, by statute
of California, jurisdiction of these cases where the amount
claimed did not exceed $200, which it did not here. The
breach alleged was that the plaintiff was detained at the
Isthmus of Panama eight days; and that the provisions furnished him on the vessel were unwholesome, and that he
was crowded into an unhealthy cabin, without sufficient
room or air for either health or comfort, in consequence of
the large number of steerage passengers, more than the vessel was allowed by law to have or could properly carry, to
his damage, &c.
The agent of the vessel filed an answer in which he denied the allegations of the complaint, and asserted that the
court had no jurisdiction; because the cause of action, as
against the said vessel, was one of which the courts of admiralty had exclusive jurisdiction; for that the vessel was
used exclusively in navigating the high seas, and that the
said cause of action, if any, arose on the high seas.
The justice decided that he had jurisdiction, and gave
judgment for the $200 claimed. The case was then taken
to the County Court, where the objection to the jurisdiction
was again made and again overruled. The court found as
fact that Hammons had been carried on the steamer Illinois
from New York to Aspinwall, thence, after the delay alleged, on railway across the Isthmus to Panama, and from
there on the Moses Taylor to San Francisco; and, in substance, that the other facts alleged were as stated in the
complaint. Whereupon, final judgment was entered in ac-

THE MosEs TAYLOR.

[Sup. ot.

Argument against State jurisdiction.

cordance with the decision, and from that judgment the defendant, owner of the vessel, brought this writ of error.

Messrs. W
tiff in error:

. EJvarts and Edwards Pierrepontfor the plain-

I. An agreement to transport a man or a horse over the
ocean is a "maritime contract," and comes under the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.*
It cannot be doubted that Hammons could have proceeded
against the steamer in rem in the District Court of the United
States, for the cause of action against the steamer set forth
in the complaint.
1I. The proceeding in this case is not according to the
common law, but with every trait and incident of a suit in
admiralty, in rem. The vessel is arrested and impleaded as
the "reus" or defendant.
III. The admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts is
exclusive, and any intrusion of a State court within such admiralty jurisdiction is unconstitutional.
The first section of the third article of the Constitution of
the United States, is as follows:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in
one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish."
And the first clause of the second section of the same article is in these words:
"The judicial power shall extend .
ralty and maritime jurisdiction."

. .

. to all cases of admi-

The ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 declares
that* The Schooner Tiltan, 5 Mason, 465; Plummer v. Webb, 4 Id. 880;
Drinkwater v. The Brig Spartan, Ware, 91; Steel v. Thatcher, Id. 149; De
Lovic v. Boit, 2 Gallison, 465; The Sloop Mary, 1 Paine, 673; Davis v. A
New Brig, Gilpin, 473, 1 Kent's Com. 370, 371; New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 344; Bazin v. Liverpool
Steamship Company, 5 American Law Register, 465.

8THE
MOSES TAYLOR.

Dec. 1866.]

Argument against State jurisdiction.

"The District Courts shall have, exclusively of the courts of
cognizance of all civil causes of admithe several States, ....
ralty and maritime jzirisdiction; .... saving to suitors, in all
cases, the right of a common law remedy, where the common law
is competent to give it."
This exclusive jurisdiction has for seventy years been the
settled law; and has been repeatedly affirmed by the courts.
In IMartin v. .Hunter,* this court says:
"It is manifest that the judicial power of the United States
is, unavoidably, in some cases, exclusive of all State authority,
and in all others may be made so at the election of Congress.
-No part of the criminal jurisdiction of the United States can,
consistently with the Constitution, be delegated to State tribunals. The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is of the same
exclusive cognizance."
In Cohen v. Vrirginia,t it was conceded that the Federal
courts had the "exclusive admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
In .Martinv. Hunter, Mr. Justice Johnson says:
"With regard to admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,it would
be difficult to prove that the States could resume it, if the United
States should abolish the courts vested with that jurisdiction."
An affirmation of this exclusive jurisdiction will be found
in the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, in S7ocurn v. 2lfaybenry;j and of Story, J., in Gelston v. .Hoyt;§and of Justices
Wayne and Catron, in Waring v. Clarke,I all cases in this
court.
Of the validity of the clause in the ninth section of the
Judiciary Act, which attributes exclusive admiralty j urisdiction to the District Courts of the United States, no serious
question has ever been made, until the Supreme Court of
California claimed for the State full admiralty jurisdiction.
But this claim was but an incident of the more extravaI Wheaton, 337.
1
3 Id. 246.

t 6 Id. 314, 315, 325.
II 5 Howard, 45f.

4 2 Id. 9.

THE

MkOSES TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

gant pretensions of the same court to entire judicial, and,
indeed, political independence of the State of California;
pretensions subsequently abandoned by that court.*
The case of Warner v. The Uncle Sam,t places the concurrence of admiralty jurisdiction upon more temperate
grounds; but its reasoning, upon examination, will be found
fatal to its conclusion.
IV. It must be deemed a settled point, in constitutional
law, that the whole grant of judicial power may become an
exclusive jurisdiction in the courts of the United States, at
the election and in the discretion of Congress.
The whole frame of the Judiciary Act, in its attribution
of jurisdiction to the various Federal courts, recognizes and
is shaped upon this idea.
-Bessrs. -41. -H. Edmonds, 0. L. Lane, and T. TV. Cope,
contra, for the defendant in error:
We maintain:
1st. That this is not a case of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction.
2d. That the grant of such jurisdiction to the Federal
courts, contained in the Constitution, is not exclusive.
3d. That these proceedings in the State court fall within
the exception contained in the Judiciary Act of 1789, saving
to suitors a common law remedy in all cases where the common law is competent to give it.
I. In admiralty, a vessel is not liable for torts, or breaches
of contract in which it is in no way instrumental. And
courts of admiralty do not take cognizance of torts committed on land. Nor is a contract for the transportation of
passengers, made on land, to be performed partly on land
and partly by water, as in this case, a "maritime contract."
It mlay be urged that the substantial portion of the voyage
was on the sea; for, while the admiralty jurisdiction was
* In Ferris v. Coover (11 California, 175), this pretension, advanced by
the earlier judges of the Supreme Court of California, was exploded in an
elaborate opinion rendered by Baldwin, J.; Field J., coneurring.-REP.
f 9 California, 697.

Dec. 1866.]

THE MOSES TAYLOR.
Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

confined to tide-water, it was held to be sufficient if the substantial portion of the voyage was Within the ebb and flow
of the tide, though its commencement or termination might
be beyond.* But in those cases the entire voyage was by water,
and made in one vessel. The contract in this case is an entirety, to carry from New York to, San Francisco, requiring
for its fulfilment two steamers and a railway. The land carriage is a substantial part of the voyage. It obviates the
necessity of a long and tedious voyage by water, and gives
to that route its chief value. It is of no consequence whether
the land transit between the two oceans be long or short.
The court will not determine the question of jurisdiction,
by a comparison of the distances by land and by water. If
this contract is of admiralty cognizance, so is an agreement
for the transportation of passengers from Liverpool to San
Francisco, via New York, Chicago, and Salt Lake. There
is no difference in principle between the two cases. In both,
the voyage by water forms a substantial part of the contract,
and so does that by land.
If a passenger contract is of admiralty cognizance at all,
it is because it comes substantially within the definition of
an affreightment.t But affreightments relate exclusively to
voyages by water. And it was conceded by Nelson, J., in
the case just cited, that a contract "must be wholly of admiralty cognizance, or else it is not at all within it." He
also expressly admits the correctness of the argument for
the claimant, that "it is not enough that the contract includes an obligation, or some obligation of a maritime
nature; but that it must, as an entirety in all its material
and substantial parts, be for the performance of maritime
services, or else the case is wholly without the limits of the
admiralty jurisdiction." Assuming this to be the law, the
agreement, in this case, is not as an entirety, a maritime
contract.
Again, in a proceeding ex contractu,in the admiralty, there
* The Robert Morris, 1 Wallace, Jr., 33.

t The Facific, 1 Blatcbford, C. C. .. 669; Id. 860.
VOL. iv.

27

THE MOSES TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

must not only be a maritime contract, but also a maritime
cause of action. In other words, the ship must be bound
for the performance of the contract, otherwise no cause of
action in rem can exist.* It cannot be contended that the
Moses Taylor was bound for the performance of an entire
contract, according to the principles of admiralty and maritime law. It was only by force of the statute that she could
have been held liable-at least for the breaches occurring
on the Isthmus, inasmuch as she does not appear tb have
been the instrumental cause of the detention. And this
court can presume no fact necessary to sustain the admiralty
jurisdiction.t
II. The validity of State laws of the character of the statute
of California has been expressly adjudicated in numerous
cases.t And this court virtually concedes their validity:
First, by basing thereon a portion of the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts;§ and, subsequently, by amending the twelfth rule in admiralty, so as to retain jurisdiction
in personam, but leaving the enforcement of the lien in rem
to the Statb courts.1 No case has ever arisen calling for the
determination of the question by this court. 3iartin v.
Hunter, and Cohen v, Virginia, cited on the other side, were
upon the question, whether a writ of error would lie to a
State court ?- And in Slocum v. Jlayberry, the question was
not raised by the defendant in error. The judgment of the
State court was affirmed, on the ground that the Embargo
Act did not authorize the seizure of the cargo, and that
replevin would lie for it in the State court.
In Gelston v. Hoyt, the only question presented was the
legality of the ruling of the State court rejecting evidence
of forfeiture, on the ground that the judgment of the United
The Pacific, 1 Blatchford, C. C. R. 587.
- Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 341.
: Thompson v. Steamboat, 2 Ohio, N. S. 26; Owen v. Johnson, Id. 142;
Keating v, Spink, 3 Id. 105; Steamboat v. McCraw, 31 Alabama, 659;
'Warner v. Uncle Sam, 9 California, 697; Taylor v. The Columbia, 5 Id. 268.
Ge. Smith, 4 Wheaton, 439; Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324.
McGuire v. Card, 21 Howard, 248; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522.

Dec. 1866.]

THE MOSEs TAYLoR.
Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

States court was conclusive on that question. And the ruling of the State court was affirmed. Waring v. Clarke is not
in point. In that, and in most of the cases where the question of admiralty jurisdiction has been discussed, the question was, whether it extended to such a case, not whether
it was exclusively vested in the District Courts.
It is not denied that dicta may'be found asserting or assuming such exclusive jurisdiction. But there is no case in
which that question has been adjudged.
As an original question, it is submitted that it has no
foundation in principle. The origin of all the misunderstanding on the subject lies in the Judiciary Act. Congress,
throughout that act, legislated upon the supposition, that
whatever jurisdiction was by the Constitution vested in
the Federal courts might be made exclusive.* And judges
and commentators have not always been sufficiently alive to
the distinction between an act of Congress and a constitutional grant; and have assumed the jurisdiction to be exclusive without inquiry, because Congress declared it §o.
And because the language of the Judiciary Act raised a
doubt of the jurisdiction of the State tribunals, suitors have
usually sought redress in the District Courts, whose jurisdiction was unquestioned; and hence has arisen a sort of
negative acquiescence in a doctrine often asserted, but never
demonstrated nor decided; not such a general acquiescence,
however, as counsel for the plaintiff in error seems to believe. The cases already cited, and many others asserting
the validity of State laws, like the present, are sufficient to
rebut any presumption of acquiescence. It is also well
known that most of the States. bordering on navigable
waters have similar laws, and that the courts of such States
have hitherto exercised almost unquestioned jurisdiction
under such laws, by proceedings in rem.
The determination of this importaht question must, after
all, depend upon the true construction to be given to the
Constitution.
* Story on the Constitution,

1751.

TuE MIOSES TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

Among the most approved rules of interpretation to
determine the exclusiveness of Federal authority, are the
following: 1. Where the grant is exclusive in its terms.
2. Where the power is prohibited to the States. 3. Where
there is a direct repugnancy, or incompatibility, in its exercise by the States.*
"In all other cases," says Story, J.. in Touston v. .Ioore,t "a
reasonable interpretation of that instrument necessarily leads
to the conclusion, that the powers so granted are never exclusive of similar power existing in the States."
It is not to be denied that Judge Story was disposed to
concede to the admiralty courts their full measure of jurisdiction. He frequently speaks of it as exclusive, not because
made so in terms, nor because it is prohibited to the States,
but on account of a supposed repugnancy, or incompatibility,
in its exercise by the States.
.Houston v. iifoore decided that the act of the State of
Pennsylvania providing for the trial by a State court-martial, of certain military offences, was not repugnant to the
Constitution and laws of the United States. No other question was raised or determined, but the learned justice, who
dissented from the opinion of the court, mentions the exclusiveness of admiralty jurisdiction, incidentally, by wxy of
argument, citing Martin v. .funter,in which the opinion was
delivered by himself, and in which he says:
"It is manifest that the judicial power of the United States is
unavoidably, in some cases, exclusive of all State authority; and
in all others may be made so at the election of Congress .....
The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is of the same exclusive cognizance; and it can only be in those cases, where previous to the Constitution, State tribunals possessed jurisdiction
independent of national authority, that they can now constitutionally exercise concurrent jurisdiction."
* Story on the Constitution,

t 5 Wheaton, 49.

436, 447; 1 Kent's Com. 396.

Dec. 1866.]

TcE MOSES TAYLOR.
Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

Misled by this case, Chancellor Kent expressed the opinion
in his Commentaries, that "whatever admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction the District Courts possess, would seem to be
exclasive." His attention thus aroused, Mr. Justice Story
noticed the "mistake," as he terms it, in a note to section
1762, of his Commentaries on the Constitution. He there
rejects the discretionary power of Congress, as well as the
exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty, and says:
"There is nothing in the Constitution necessarily leading to
the conclusion that the jurisdiction was intended to be exclusive, and there is as little ground upon general reason, to contend for it."
Chancellor Kent, in acknowledging the*correction, charged
his error upon Story, J., himself, or rather -upon the case of
Martin v. THcnter, as above stated, and concludes by saying:
"But we are taught by the note in the Commentaries referred
to, that the State courts have all the concurrent cognizance
which they had originally, in 1787, over maritime contracts, and
that this concurrent jurisdiction does not depend, as declared in
1 Wheaton, 337, on the pleasure of Congress, but is founded on
the 'reasonable interpretation of the Constitution.' "*
Again, the Federalist showst that the grant of jurisdiction
to the Federal courts was not intended to be exclusive; and
at all events that "the State courts would be divested of no
part of their primitive jurisdiction, further than may relate
to an appeal."
It may, therefore, be considered as established1. That the grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
in the Constitution, is not exclusive in its terms.
2. That it is not prohibited to the State courts.
3. That if intended to be exclusive, such intention must
be found in some' repugnancy or incompatibility in the -exer.eise of like powers by the State tribunals.
1 Kent's Com. 377, note
N
Nos. 81 and 82.

c, 9th

ed., marginal paging.

THE, MosEs TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

4. That if not intended to be exclusive, Congress cannot
make it so, if the result would be to divest the State courts
of any part of their primitive jurisdiction.
It is well known that at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, whatever admiralty jurisdiction existed in this
country, was exercised by the State courts, with the exception of piracies and felonies on the high seas and appeals in
cases of capture. Before the Revolution each colony had its
court of admiralty. During the Revolution and up to the
adoption of the Constitution, this jurisdiction was vested in
and exercised by the States respectively, subject to the
power of Congress as contained in the Articles of Confederation,* to establish courts for receiving and determining
finally appeals in all cases of capture, and courts for the trial
of piracies and felonies committed on the high seas.
At that time then "admiralty and maritime cases" as
clearly belonged to the State courts as those of chancery
and common law. They belonged to the State courts independently of the Articles of Confederation, and did not in
any manner "grow out of" the Constitution itself. When
therefore by the provisions of that instrument, cognizance
of such cases was granted to the Federal courts without
words of exclusion, the principle of exclusion must be found,
if found at all, in the incompatibility of the exercise of like
powers concurrently by the State and Federal courts. If
not found there, it is not contained in the Constitution.
And what the Constitution permits in this regard, either expressly or by implication and reasonable inference, Congress
cannot prohibit.
Now let us examine this question of incompatibility. The
rule, as stated by Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitutiont is this:
"The power is exclusive in the National Government where

an authority is granted to the Union, to which a similar authority in the States would be absolutely and totally contra-

dictory and repugnant. The principal difficulty lies not so
* Article 9,

1.

f

437, 438.

:Dec. 1866.]

THE MosEs TAYLOR.
Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

much in the rule, as in its application to particular cases. But
unless from the nature of the power, or from the obvious results
of its operations, a repugnancy must exist, so as to lead to a
necessary conclusion, that the powel was intended to be exclusive, the true rule of interpretation is, that the power is merely
concurrent."
This repugnancy therefore may exist either in the ncdure
of the power, or its practical operations. That conflicts may
arise in the exercise of ackmowledgjed concurrent powers is
conceded.
In such cases the Constitution provides the remedy in the
declared supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the
Union, and the supervisory control of the Supreme Court.
In the exercise of concurrent judicial powers, courts have
also adopted a rule of judicial comity eminently calculated
to prevent such conflicts. It is, that the court which first
obtains possession or custody of the thing by attachment or
proceeding in ren, shall retain it. Such was the case of the
.Robert .Fallon.* That was a case of admiralty cognizance.
And the libel was dismissed because an attachment under
ihe Boat and Vessel Act of the State, had previously been
levied on the vessel, and she was in the custody of the sheriff
when the libel was filed.
The following are given as samples of concurrent powers:
The power to lay taxes,t though expressly given to Congress. So by the Constitution Congress has the power to
lay and collect duties, imposts, and excises which "shall be
uniform throughout the United States." But the license
laws of Massachusetts, Ithode Island, and New Hlampshire,
forbidding the sale of spirituous liquors, in less than certain
large quantities, were held not to be repugnant to this clause,
nor to that regulating commerce.1
So the States are not deprived of the power of regulating
pilots, when such regulation does not interfere with the acts
of Congress. So the power granted to Congress to establish
1 Paine, 626.

t Story on the Constitution,

1 The License Cases, 5 Howard, 504-577.

438.

TAE MOSES

TAYLOR.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies does not deprive
the States of the power to pass bankrupt laws. So offences
against the military laws of the United States by persons
called into the service of the United States, may be tried by
State courts-martial, where the act of Congress does not
expressly vest exclusive jurisdiction in the courts-martial
thereby authorized.*
So the State courts have unquestioned concurrent cognizance of nearly all the cases mentioned in the third article
of the second section of the Constitution.
Cases affecting ambassadors, &c., are of exclusive Federal
cognizance, and rightfully, because they grow out of the Constitution itself. Most of- the other enunierated cases do not,
and are, therefore, properly left by the Judiciary Act where
the Constitution left them,-to the cognizance of the State
and Federal courts concurrently. It is not easy to conceive
what practical difficulties could arise in the exercise of concurrent admiralty powers, greater than have occurred in
other cases and been surmounted.
To sustain the third proposition, we cite the cases under
the second head, declaring and conceding the validity of
these local laws.t
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises upon certain provisions of a statute of
California regulating proceedings in civil cases in the courts
of that State.T The sixth chapter of the statute relates to
actions against steamers, vessels, and boats, and provides
that they shall be liable-ist, for services rendered on board
of them, at the request of, or on contract with, their respective owners, agents, masters, or consignees; 2d, for supplies
furnished for their use upon the like .request; 3d, for materials furnished in their construction, repair, or equipment;
4th, for their wharfage and anchorage within the State; 5th,
* Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheaton, 1.
t See, also, Cashmere v. De Wolf, 2 Sandford Supreme Court (N. Y.),
379; Percival v. Hickey, 18 Johnson, 291; Blake v. Patton, 15 Maine, 173.
$ Laws of California of 1851, p. 51.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

MOSES

TAYLoR.

Opinion of the court.

for non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for
the transportation of persons or property made by their re
spectiire owners, agents, masters, or consignees; 6th, for
injuries committed by them to persons or property; and
declares that these several causes of action shall constitute
liens upon the steamers, vessels, and boats, for one year after
the causes of action shall have accrued, and have priority in
the order enumerated, and preference over all other demands. The statute also provides that actions for demands
arising upon any of these grounds may be brought directly
against the steamers, vessels, or boats by name; that process may be served on the master, mate, or any person
having charge of the same; that they may be attached as
security for the satisfaction of any judgment which may be
recovered; and that if the attachment be not discharged,
and a judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, they may be
sold, with their tackle, apparel, and furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary, and the proceeds applied
to the payment of the judgment.
These provisions, with the exception of the clause designating the order of priority in the liens, and their preference
over other demands, were enacted in 1851; that clause was
inserted by an amendment in 1860.
In 1863, the steamship Moses Taylor, a vessel of over one
thousand tons burden, was owned by Marshall 0. Roberts,
of the city of New York, and was employed by him in
navigating the Pacific Ocean, and in carrying passengers
and freight between Panama and San Francisco. In October of that year the plaintiff in the court below, the defendant in error in this court, entered into a contract with
Roberts, as owner of this steamship, by which, in consideration of one hundred dollars, Roberts agreed to transport him
from New York to San Francisco as a steerage passenger,
with reasonable despatch, and to furnish him with proper
and necessary food, water, and berths, or other conveniences
for lodgriig, on the voyage. The contract, as set forth in the
complaint, does not in terms provide for transportation on
any portion of the voyage by the Moses Taylor, but the case

THE MOSES TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was tried upon the supposition that such was the fact, and
v e shall, therefore, treat the contract as if it specified a
transportation by that steamer on the Pacific for the distance between Panama and San Francisco. For alleged
breach of this contract the present action was brought,
under the statute mentioned, in a court of a justice of the
peace held within the city of San Francisco. Courts held
by justices of the peace were at that time by hnother statute
invested with jurisdiction of these cases, where the amount
claimed did not exceed two hundred dollars, except where
the action was brought to recover seamen's wages for a
voyage performed, in whole or in part, without the waters
of the State.*
The agent for the Moses Taylor appeared to the action,
and denied the jurisdiction of the court, insisting that the
cause of action was one over which the courts of admiralty
had exclusive jurisdiction, and also traversed the several
matters alleged as breaches of the contract.
The justice of the peace overruled the objection to his
jurisdiction, and gave judgment for the amount claimed.
On appeal to the County Court the action was tried de noro
upon the same pleadings, but in all respects as if originally
commenced in that court. The want of jurisdiction there,
and the exclusive cognizance of such causes of action by the
courts of admiralty were again urged and were again overruled; and a similar judgment to that of the justice of the
peace was rendered. The amount of the judgment was too
small to enable the owner of the steamer to take the case
by appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. That court
has no appellate jurisdiction in cases where the demand in
dispute, exclusive of interest, is under three hundred dollars,
unless it involve the legality of a tax, .impost, assessment,
toll,.or municipal fine.t The decision of the County Court
was the decision of the highest court in the State which had
jurisdiction of the matter in controversy. From that court,
therefore, the case is brought here by writ of error.
* Laws of California of 1853, p. 287, and of 1856, p 133.
t Constitution of the State, Art. VI, sec. 4, as amended in 1862.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

MOSES TAYLOR.

Opinion of the court.

The case presented is clearly one within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The contract
for the transportation of the plaintiff was a maritime contract. As stated in the complaint, it related exclusively to a
service to be performed on the high seas, and pertained
solely to the business of commerce and.navigation. Thereis no distinction in principle between a contract of this character and a contract for the transportation of merchandise.
The same liability attaches upon their execution both to the
owner and the ship. The passage-money in the one case is
equivalent to the freight-money in the other. A breach of
either contract is the appropriate subject of admiralty jurisdiction.
The action against the steamer by name, authorized by
the statute of California, is a proceeding in the nature and
with the incidents of a suit in admiralty. The distinguishing and characteristic feature of such suit is that the vessel
or thing proceeded against is itself seized and impleaded as
the defendant, and is judged and sentenced accordingly. It
is this dominion of the suit in admiralty over the vessel or
thing itself which gives to the title made under its decrees
validity against all the world. By the common law process,
whether of mesne attachment or execution, property is
reached only through a personal defendant, and then only
to the extent of his title. Under a sale, therefore, upon a
judgment in a common law proceeding the title acquired
can never be better than that possessed by the personal defendant. It is his title, and not the property itself, which is
sold.
The statute of California, to the extent in which it authorizes actions in ren against vessels for causes of action cognizable in the admiralty, invests her courts with admiralty
jurisdiction, and so the Supreme Court of that State has decided in several cases. In Averill v. The Steamer Harford,*
the court thus held, and added that "the proceedings in
such actions must be governed by the principles and forms
* 2 California, 308. -

THE MOSES TAYLOR.

[Sup. 6%.

Opinion of the court.

of admiralty courts, except where otherwise controlled or
directed by the act."
This jurisdiction of the courts of California was asserted
and is maintained upon the assumed ground that the cognizance by the Federal courts "of civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction" is not exclusive, as declared by
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The question presented for our determination is, therefore, whether such cognizance by the Federal courts is exclusive, and this depends •either upon the constitutional
grant of judicial power, or the validity of the provision of
the ninth section of the act of Congress.
The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the
United States "shall extend to all cases, in law and equity,
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other
public ministers, and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United
States shall be a party; to controversies between two or
more States; between a State and citizens of another State;
between citizens of different.States; between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of difibrent States;
and between a State or the citizens thereof and foreign
States, citizens, or subjects."*
How far this judicial power is exclusive, or may, by the
legislation of Congress, be made exclusive, in the courts of
the United States, has been much discussed, though there
has been no direct adjudication upon the point. In the
opinion delivered in the case of Mlartin v. H unter's Lessee,t
Mr. Justice Story comments upon the fact that there are
two classes of cases enumerated in the clause cited, between
which a distinction is drawn; that the first class includes
cases arising under the-Constitution, laws, and treaties- of
the United States, cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers, and consuls, and cases of admiralty and maritime
*Article II,

2.

t I W~heaton, 334.

Dec. 1866.]

THE MOSES TAYLOR.
• Opinion of the court.

jurisdiction; and that, with reference to this class, the expression is that the judicial power shall extend to all eases;
but that in the subsequent part of the clause, which embraces all the other cases of national cognizance, and forms
the second class, the word "all" is dropped. And the
learned justice appears to have thought the variation in the
language the result of some determinate reason, and suggests that, with respect to the first class, it may have been
the intention of the framers of the Constitution imperatively
to extend the judicial power either in an original or appellate form to all cases, and, with respect to the latter class,
to leave it to Congress to qualify the jurisdiction in such
manner as public policy might dictate. Many cogent reasons and various considerations of public policy are stated
in support of this suggestion. The vital importance of all
the cases enumerated in the first class to the national sovereignty is mentioned as a reason which may have warranted
the distinction, and which would seem to require that they
should be vested exclusively in the national courts,-a consideration which does not apply, at least with equal force,
to cases of the second class. Without, however, placing implicit reliance upon the distinction stated, the learned justice
observes, in conclusion, that it is manifest that the judicial
power of the United States is in some cases unavoidably exclusive of all State authority, and that in all others it may
be made so at the election of Congress. We agree fully
with this conclusion. The legislation of Congress has proceeded upon this supposition. The Judiciary Act of 1789,
in its distribution of jurisdiction to the several Federal
courts, recognizes and is framed upon the theory that in all
cases to which the judicial power of the United States extends, Congress may rightfully vest exclusive jurisdiction in
the Federal courts. It declares that in some cases, from
their commencement, such jurisdiction shall be exclusive;
in other cases it determines at what stage of procedure such
jurisdiction shall attach, and how long and how far concurrent jurisdiction of the State courts shall be permitted.
Thus, cases in which the United States are parties, civil

THE MOSES TAYLOR.

[sup.'Ct.

Opinion of the court.

causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and cases
against consuls and vice-consuls, except for certain offences,
are placed, from their commencement, exclusively under the
cognizance of the Federal courts.
On the other hand, some cases, in which an alien or a
citizen of another State is made a party, may be brought
either in a Federal or a State court, at the option of the
plaintiff; and if brought in the State court may be prosecuted until the appearance of the defendant, and then, at his
option, may be suffered to remain there, or may be trans-.
ferred to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
Other cases, not included under these heads, but involving questions under the Constitution, laws, treaties, or authority of the United States, are only drawn within the control of the Federal courts upon appeal or writ of error, after
final judgment.
By subsequent legislation of Congress, and particularly
by the legislation of the last four years, many of the cases,
which by the Judiciary Act could only come under the cognizance of the Federal courts after final judgment in the
State courts, may be withdrawn from the concurrent jurisdiction of the latter courts at earlier stages, upon the application of the defendant.
The constitutionality of these provisions cannot be seriously questioned, and is of frequent recognition by both
State and Federal courts.
The cognizance of civil causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction vested in the District Courts by the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, may be supported upon like considerations. It has been made exclusive by Congress, and
that is sufficient, even if we should admit that in the absence
of its legislation the State courts might have taken cognizance of these causes. But there are many weighty reasons
why it was so declared. "The admiralty jurisdiction," says
Mr. Justice Story, "naturally connects itself, on the one
hand, with our diplomatic relations and the duties to foreign
nations and their subjects; and, on the other hand, with the
great interests of navigation and commerce, foreign and do-

Dec. 1866.1

SEMPLE V.' HAGAR.

Statement of the case.

mestic. There is, then, a peculiar wisdom in giving to the
national government a jurisdiction of this sort which cannot
be yielded, except for the general good, and which multiplies the securities for the public peace abroad, and gives to
commerce and navigation the most encouraging support at
home."*
The case before us is not within the saving clause of the
ninth section. That clause only saves to suitors "the right
of a common-law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it."

It is not a remedy in the common-law

courts which is saved, but a common-law remedy. A proceediug in ren, as used in the admiralty courts, is not a remedy afforded by the common-law; it is a proceeding under
the civil law. When used in the common-law courts, it is
given by statute.
It follows, from the views expressed, that the judgment of
the County Court must be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with di'ections to dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction.
AND

IT IS S0 ORDERED.

SEM-PLE V. IAGAR.
1. *When a want of jurisdiction is patent, or can be readily ascertained by
an examination of the record in advance of an examination of the questions on the argument of the merits, this court will entertain and act
upon a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
2. 'Where two parties held patents for land from the United States, under
3Mexican grants, both of which included the same lands in part, and
one of the parties brought a suit in a State court to vacate the patent of
the other, to the extent of the conflict of title, and the State court refused to entertain jurisdiction of the question, and dismissed the complaint, this court has no jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, to review the judgments.
SEMPLE filed a bill against Hagar in one of the State courts
of California. The bill alleged that he, the complainant
* Commentaries,

1672.

