LOCKE v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in no case in which like action in the latter court could not

be re-examined.
The only real difference between the two statutes is that
the latter gives an appeal from a decision of the single judge
at special term, on a motion for new trial, to the whole court
at general term, or secures an original hearing of the motion
in general term. This is an advantage to the unsuccessful
party not formerly enjoyed, but it makes no changes as to
re-examination upon appeals or writs of error in this court.
The court has considered the motion for a certiorarito supply alleged defects in the record; but, after a careful comparison of the suggestions of counsel with the record before
us, and the act establishing the Supreme Court for the
District of Columbia-, we are satisfied that the granting of
the motion would avail nothing to the plaintiff in error.
It must, therefor&, be overruled. And the writ of error
must be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

LOCKE v. NEw ORLEANS.
1. A statute which simply authorizes the imposition of a tax according to a
previous assessment is not retrospective.
2. Every retrospective act is not necessarily an expostfacto law.
3. Such laws embrace only such as impose"or affect penalties or forfeitures.

TiE legislature of Louisiana enacted, A. D. 1850"That each of the municipalities of said city shall be and is
hereby empowered to levy a tax on capital on the assessment
roll for the year 1848, and a tax on capital on the assessment
roll for the year 1849: -Provided,that the taxes on capital on said
assessment rolls, for the years 1848 and 1849, shall not exceed
the amounts already imposed by existing ordinances of the said
municipalities."
Under the authority of this act the City of New Orleans,
having levied a tax on capital owned and employed during

Dec. 1866.]

LocKE V. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the court.

the years mentioned by Locke, brought suit to enforce its
payment. One defence set up was that the act was unconstitutional. The Supreme Court of the State having, on
appeal from the District Court, whose judgment it affirmed,
decided that it was not, the case was now brought here for
review.
Mr. Janin for the plaintiff in error. No opposite counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The legislature of Louisiana in 1850 passed an act authorizing each of the municipalities of the City of New Orleans
to levy a tax on capital within its limits on the assessment
rolls of 1848 and 1849, not to exceed the amounts imposed
by existing ordinances. The present action was instituted
to recover, in part, the amount of the tax levied' under this
act upon capital owned and employed by the defendant in
one of the municipalities. As a defence the defendant,
among other things, alleged the unconstitutionality of the
act of the legislature authorizing the tax. The District
Court, in which the action was brought, gave judgment for
the city, and the Supreme Court of the State affirmed the
judgment.
The unconstitutionality of the act was asserted from its
supposed retroactive .operation, upon the notion that the
prohibition of the Federal Constitution upon the States to
pass an ex post facto law extended to all retrospective laws.
There was nothing in the position taken which entitled it
to consideration. In the first place the act was not subject
to the imputation of being retrospective.. It did not operate
upon the past, or deprive the party of any vested rights. It
simply authorized the imposition of a tax according to a
previous assessment. In the second place, even if the law
had been strictly retrospective, it would not have been within
the constitutional -inhibition. .Ex post facto laws embrace
only such as impose or affect penalties or forfeitures; they
do not include statutes having any other operation. The
term ex postfacto, literally construed, would apply to any act

174

STURDY V. JACIAWAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

operating upon a previous fact, yet the restricted sense stated
is the one in which it has always been held. It was the sense
in which it was understood at the time the Constitution was
adopted, both in this country and in England.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

STURDY V. JACKAWAY.
A final judgment pronounced in an action of ejeetment, where the claim of

title in fee simple absolute by the parties respectively was the sole subject of controversy, instituted and prosecuted under and according to
the forms and in the manner prescribed by the statute laws of the State
of Arkansas, that is to say, by a suit between the real litigants by name
and where the land is accurately described, is a valid legal bar to a like
action subsequently instituted between the same parties for the same
lands or premises, involving the same identical title and rights to the
-possession of such lands or premises and none other.
Semble. The doctrine is applicable generally in ejectments, in the form
above described, in those States where no provision is made by statute
for a subsequent trial.

brought ejectment against Jackaway in one of the
State courts of Arkansas to recover a tract of land in that
State, the action being brought not in the English fictitious
form used still in some States of the Union, but in the way
now more common with us-and which prevails in Arkansas
-where the parties sue, as in other cases, in their true
names, and where the land claimed is described so as to be
capable of complete identification. Judgment was given for
the defendant; and the case having gone to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas the judgment was there affirmed. He
then brought another ejectment for the same premises in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and the defendant having pleaded the
former judgment the plaintiff demurred. The judges of the
STURDY

* 1 Blackstone, 46; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 390.

