NEWELL V. NITxoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

remedies as might afterwards be enacted by State statutes,
for this would have enabled the States to make the jurisdiction of their courts concurrent in all cases, by simply providing a statutory remedy for all cases. Thus the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Federal courts would be defeated. In
the act of 1845, where Congress does mean this, the language expresses it clearly; for after saving to the parties,
in cases arising under that act, a right of trial by jury, and
the right to a concurrent remedy at common law, where it
is competent to give it, there is added, "any concurrent
remedy which may be given by the State laws where such
steamer or other vessel is employed."
THE JUDGMENT IS REVERSED, and the case is remanded to
the Supreme Court of Iowa, with directions that it be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

TEWELL V. NIXON.
1. Although no partnership may exist between them, yet where two persons
are joint owners of a vessel against which a claim exists for non-delivery of cargo, and one gives a note in the joint name for a balance agreed
on as due for such non-delivery-the other party being aware of the
making of the note, and of the consideration for which it was given,
and making no dissent from the act of his co-owner-such note cannot
be repudiated by such other party, he having bought out the share of
his co-owner in the vessel and agreed to pay her debts and liabilities.
2. Where a suit is brought against a shipowner for a sum acknowledged by
the owners to be due the shipper, for a breach of contract in delivering
merchandise, the production-of the bill of lading is not essential.
3. The plea of prescription of one year, under the Civil Code of Louisiana,
cannot be set up in a case where the suit is brought in April on an acknowledgment made in September previous of a sum due on settlement.
4. A party suing, not on a note but on the consideration for which the note
was given-and using the note as evidence rather than as the foundation
of the claim-may have lawful interest on the sum due him, although
by note given on a settlement the party sued may have promised to pay
unlawful interest and such as the law of the State where the note was
given visits with a forfeiture of all interest whatever.

Dec. 1866.]

NTEWELL V.

Nixo.

Statement of the case.
5. Where usury is not set up in some way as a defence below, it cannot be
urged here.

ERROt to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana; the case being thus:
By the Civil Code of Louisiana it is enacted1. That actions "for the delivery of merchandise or other
effects shipped on board any kind of vessel . . . are prescribed by one year."
2. That conventional interest shall in no case exceed eight
per cent., under pain of forfeiture of the entire interest so
contracted.
With these provisions in force, Nixon sued Newell, attaching as his property the steamboat Hill; and setting forth
by petition filed April 20th, 1857:
1. That Newell was indebted to him $2585, with interest
from January 11th, 1855, at the rate of eight per cent., for
this, to wit, that on the said day the said Newell and one
Hamilton, since deceased, being co-owners of the steamboat'
Hill, . . . and in such capacity, viz., as owners, made their
note in his favor for the above-named sum, which would appear by reference to the note annexed and made part of the
petition.
2. That independently of this, Newell was indebted in the
same sum for this-that he, Nixon, had shipped, at New
Orleans, on the said steamboat, of which Newell and one
tUamilton were owners, a large quantity of salt, which was
never delivered at its destination.
The note, which was annexed to the petition, was for the
amount above stated, and was signed "Newell & Hamilton,
owners," but was made payable with interest at the rate of
ten per cent. per annum.
Newell set up as defence that he never was a member
of any firm known as Newell & Hamilton; and that no person had authority to bind him under any such signature;
and, moreover, that the cause was barred by the "prescription" (or "limitation," as it is called in many States), of
one year.
The court found as fact that the note was not signed by

NEWELL V.

NIXON.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

the defendant, Newell, but by Hamilton, now dead; that
these two persons had no commercial partnership; that
they did not transact the business of the boat under a social
name, and were not accustomed to sign notes in this form;
but that they were simply part owners in the Hill-Newell
owning three-fourths and Hamilton one.
The court found, further (no bill of lading being produced
and the evidence being of witnesses who received the salt),
that the salt was shipped as alleged but arrived at an intermediate port in bad condition, where it was taken by the
agent of the owners of the Hill, who disposed of the same
with their consent and for their account, the plaintiff having
refused to receive it on account of its bad condition; that
the consideration of the note was the sum due by the steamboat and owners for the salt not delivered; that the defendant was aware of the making of the note and of its consideration; that there was no evidence of his dissent from the
act. It was shown also that after the death of Hamilton,
his administrator made a settlement with Nixon and transferred to him Hamilton's interest in the steamboat, for which
Nixon had agreed to pay "the debts and liabilities of the
boat."
This settlement took place September 22d, 1856.
The objections made below to the claim were:
1. That the defendant, Newell, not having been in any
sense a partner of Hamilton, the note signed by Hamilton
did not bind Newell.
2. That no bill of lading had been'produced; and that
one was necessary.
3. That the suit was barred by prescription or limitation
of one year.
The court (Campbell, J.), as to the first point, admitted
that as Newell was not a partner, in any sense, of Hamilton,
the note could not bind Newell, unless he was connected
with it by testimony other than itself. But it thought that
the special facts of the case did so connect and make him
liable. The term "boat," in the contract by which Newell
assumed to pay "the debts and liabilities of the boat," the
learned judge considered as meaning those binding the

Dec. 1866.]

NTEWELL V. N IXON.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

owners on account of their interest in the boat. The assumption had been made on an adequate consideration.
The note on its face expressed an obligation affecting the
boat, and it was given in recognition of such a liability.
In regard to the second point, the learned judge did not
consider the production of the bill of lading essential to the
support of the action. The suit had not been brought on
the contract of shipment, but to collect the sum acknowledged to be due in consequence of the breach of contract.
3. To the argument of prescription the court said nothing.
Judgment having been given accordingly, for the plaintiff,
the same points were again presented here on exception; an
additional point being made, to wit, that the court erred in
allowing eight per cent. interest.
.Mr. Reverdy Johnson, who filed a brief of Mr. .Afarr, for the
plaintiff in error:
1. As there was no commercial partnership between the
defendant and Hamilton, and as they did not transact the
business of the boat under a social name, Newell was not
bound by the note, and, if he was liable to plaintiff, that liability must rest solely upon the original consideration, the
shipment, consignment, and breach set forth in the petition.
The note itself proved nothing against the defendant; and
the plaintiff was bound to prove such facts as would constitute legal responsibility on the part of defendant; that is to
say, was bound to prove the shipment, the consignment, the
breach, and consequent damages, exactly as if no such note
had been given. He did not do this.
2. The bill of lading was not produced; an extraordinary
fact in the case of any large shipment. Nor does the plaintiff allege that he was the owner of the salt. In the absence
of proof to the contrary, the consignee would be presumed
to be the owner. The legal title is in him; and the mere
shipper has no interest in the contract of affreightment, or
in the delivery of the cargo. If the defendant was liable to
the plaintiff, it was as a coinmon carrier, for the damages
resulting from the breach of the specific contract alleged.

NEWELL V. TIXON.,

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The best proof of that contract would have been the bill;
and without in some way accounting for the failure to produce it, the plaintiff ought not to have been allowed to introduce secondary and oral proof of the shipment. His
character as shipper does not give him such an interest in
the property as to enable him, upon that mere allegation, to
maintain an action. The consignee might sue and recover
upon simply alleging and proving the consignment to him,
and failure to deliver; but if the shipper sues, he must allege and prove property in himself. This court may well
presume, in the absence of a contrary showing, that every
important allegation has been proven to the satisfaction of
the triers, when there is a general finding in favor of plaintiff; but it will certainly not presume in favor of plaintiff,
that an important fact, essential to his right to recover,
which be has not alleged, was proven.
3.As there was no proof of demand having been made
of defendant, and no pretence that he ever acknowledged
his liability to plaintiff on this claim, there is nothing to
take it out of the prescription; and the demand was barred.
4. The court below erred in allowing eight per cent. interest, even if the proof makes out the liability of the defendant.
The suit was upon the note, and one of two things is true
in the matter. Either the note is obligatory upon Newell;
and in that event it is void, so far as interest is concerned,
because it stipulates for ten per cent. ; or, it is not obligatory on him; and in that event there is no proof of a written
agreement, or of any other agreement to pay conventional
interest. Either there is no proof of an agreement to pay
interest, or there is proof of an agreement to pay usurious
interest, which is prohibited by the law of Louisiana.
In BeMl v. Duncan,* the Louisiana courts say, in reference
to the law against usury: "The statute is prohibitory.
Whatever is done in contravention of a prohibitory law is
void, although the nullity be not formally directed.t The
*1 Annual, 267.

t Civil Code, Art. 12.

:Dec. 1866.]

e EWELL V. NIXON.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

agreement to pay usurious interest being in violation of a
prohibitory law, we can give it no effect whatever."
This case arose and was decided under Art. 2895 of the
Civil Code, which affixed no penalty to the agreement to
pay usurious interest. But the law applicable in this case,
attaches as a penalty the forfeiture of the entire interest so
contracted. So utterly void is such an agreement, under this
statute, that the debtor, if he has actually paid the usurious
interest, may sue for and recover it within twelve months.*
Without written proof of an agreemefit to pay it, conventional interest cannot be recovered. An agreement to pay
ten per cent. cannot be maintained as a valid contract to pay
eight per cent. If the written proof establishes an agreement prohibited by law, the court can give it no effect whatever, but must declare it void in toto. In Reid v. _Duncav,
already cited, the court say: "We cannot say that we will
let the convention stand up to the highest limit permitted
by the law, and disregard it for so much as it exceeds the
legal limit. The convention is a whole, and the nullity
covers the whole."
Will it be said that there was no plea of usury in this
case? That is so, and it is so for two reasons: 1st. Newell
did not admit that the note was obligatory upon him; consequently he could not have pleaded that he had made an
agreement to pay usurious interest. 2d. As the note itself,
which is the only agreement touchiing interest, was exhibited

as part of the petition, and offered in evidence, it furnishes
proof of a stipulation which the law prohibits, and which the
courts must reprobate. If the note were obligatory upon
Newell the case would be exactly analogous, so far as the
interest is concerned, to one in which a note offered in evidence should state upon its face that it is given for money
lost at play. The proof of indebtedness disclosing an agreement which the courts cannot enforce, no special plea of
illegality would be necessary.
* See a full comment on this statute in Lalande v. Breaux, 5 Annual,
506, et seq.
VOL. IV.

87

578

NEWELL

v. Nixox.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Mr. Janin, contra:
I. It is submitted that under the state of facts found by the
court below, a sufficient partnership to bind Newell, even if
not a truly commercial partnership did exist between Newell
and Hamilton, under the laws of Louisiana. They were
partners in the ownership and business of the steamboat.
If so, they were bound jointly and severally for this debt,
and the settlement of the claim by the note now sued on, by
one of the partners, cannot, under the facts of the case, be
complained of by th other partner.
But more clear is the fact, that the owners of the boat,
Newell and Hamilton, acknowledging 'their liability, took
the salt and disposed of it on their own account, and therefore, not only as carriers, but by appropriating the property
to their own use, with the evident intention of indemnifying
the owner, became responsible for the value of the property.
Express sanction was not wanting in this case on the part
of Newell. The agent of the boat sold this damaged salt, with
the consent of both of the owners of the boat, and for their account;
Newell was aware of the making of the note, and the consideration for which it was given, and never objected to
Nixon's claim; and, further, after Hamilton's death, in August, 1855, Hamilton's administrator transferred to him
Hamilton's fourth interest in the boat and its benefits, in
consequence of which Newell assumed to pay all the debts
and liabilities of the boat. This includes, of course, the note
sued on, which, on its face, expresses an obligation affecting
the boat; and the evidence is that it was given in recognition of such a liability.
By this assumption the plaintiff in error became bound
for the debt, even if he had not been originally bound by
the note. Article 1884 of the Civil Code of Louisiana is in
these words:
"A person may also, in his own name, make some advantage
to a third pe'son the condition or consideration of a commutative contract or onerous donation; and if such third person
consents to avail himself of this advantage, stipulated in his
favor, the contract cannot be revoked."

Dec. 1866.]

D .EWELLV. INIXON.
Opinion of the court.

11. The counsel contend that the defendant in error was a
mere shipper, and did not prove the ownership of the salt.
This was, however, acknowledged by the settlement of
Hamilton with Nixon, treating him as the party in interest.
III. As to the plea of prescription. The owners appropriated the proceeds of our salt. The action is less for a
breach of contract to carry than assumnpsit for money had
and received. It is so plain that the prescription of one
year for the mere non-delivery of merchandise cannot apply,
that the court thought it needless to make any remark
about the thing at all. And so it was. After Hamilton's
direct acknowledgment of ownership and Newell's tacit assent to the settlement, it was certainly unnecessary to produce the bill of lading.
IV. The allowance of eight per cent. interest on the principal of the note was right. The suit was perhaps less upon
the note than on the appropriation and use of our money,
the proceeds of the salt sold. We asked eight per cent. interest, and no objection being made, it was given us. This
was probably right.
But whether right or not, it must now stand. Objectioh
to it is now first made here. There was no plea of usury,
nor was usury set up even by argument in the Circuit
Court, from which the case comes.
Afr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in the court below, and the defendant in that court excepted and sued out
this writ of error. Cause of action, as stated by the plaintiff
in his original petition, was that the defendant, Thomas H.
Newell, was justly indebted to him in the full sum of two
thousand five hundred and eighty-seven dollars and eightyfive cents, with interest thereon from the eleventh day of
January, 1855, until paid, at the rate of eight per cent. per
annum. He also alleged that the defendant, together with
one Thomas Hamilton, deceased, as the owners of a certain
steamboat engaged in carrying freight and passengers for

NEWELL V. -L\IXO-Z.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

hire on the same eleventh day of January, made and executed to him their note for that sum, payable one day after
date, with interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent. per
annum from th6 date of the note, which was annexed to and
made part of the petition. In his supplemental petition the
plaintiff alleged that during the month of Juiue, 1854, he
shipped on board the steamer aforesaid, of which the defendant and the said Thomas Hamilton were the owners,
four thousand seven hundred and sixteen sacks of salt, to be
transported to Nashville, and there to be delivered to certain
consignees, and that a large part of the shipment, to wit, two
thousand four hundred and six sacks of the salt were never
so transported and delivered: and he averred that he was
entitled to recover for the value of the deficit, and that the
note annexed to the original petition and signed "Newell
and Hamilton, owners," was given by them for that consideration.
Service was made by attachment, as the defendant resided
permanently out of the State, and the writ of attachment
was duly served on the aforesaid steamboat, then lying in
the port of New Orleans. Due return having been made by
the sheriff, the defendant appeared in the case, and on his
motion the property attached was discharged, he having
given bond to satisfy such judgment as might be rendered
against him in the suit. All these proceedings took place
in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, but the cause
was shortly afterwards, on motion of the defendant, removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
under the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act.
Principal defences, as pleaded in the original and supplemental answers of the defendant, were: 1. A general denial
of all the allegations of the petition. 2. That the defendant
never was a member of a firm or partnership called Newell
& Hiamilton, and that no person ever had power or authority
to bind him by note or otherwise under that name or style.
3. That the supposed cause of action accrued more than one
year prior to the institution of the suit, and that the same
was barred by the prescription of one year.

Dec. 1866.]

NEWELL V. iNIXON.
Opinion of the court.

1. Testimony was taken, and the cause was submitted to
the court without the intervention of a jury. Although
there was no jury trial, still the rulings of the court, under
the peculiar practice in the Louisiana disti'ict, may be examined in this court upon writ of error, and the judgment
reversed or affirmed by a bill of exceptions, in the same
manner as if there had been a jury trial. They may also
be revised here upon a state of facts found by the court, but
the question presented in the court below and decided by.
the court must be clearly stated.*
Applying that rule to the present case, it is clear that no
questions are properly before the court in this case except
such as are distinctly presented in the bill of exceptions.
Recurring to that source, it appears that the court found
from the evidence that the steamer which carried the freight
was commanded by the defendant, and that he owned threefourths part of her, and that Thomas -Hamilton (since deceased), owned the remaining one-fourth; that they were
not partners, and never had any paitnership name for transacting the business of their steamboat, and were not accustomed to sign bills or notes for each other, but that each
signed for himself whenever it was necessary to give securities concerning the business of the boat, and that the note
annexed to the original petition was not in the handwriting
of the defendant. Full proof, however, was introduced that
the consideration of the note was the balance due by the
steamboat and owners for the salt not delivered to the plaintiff, and that the defendant was aware of the making of the
note and of the consideration for which it was given.
2. Second objection of the defendant under the general
issue was that the plaintiff could not recover upon the consideration stated in the petition, because the bill of lading
was not produced; but the court ruled that the suit was not
brought on that instrument: that it was a suit to collect the
sum acknowledged to be due to the plaintiff in consequence
of the breach of the contract. Undoubtedly that ruling was
* Arthurs et al. v. Hart, 17 Howard, 15.

582

NEwELL V. NIXON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

correct, as is obvious from the allegations of both petitions.
They allege the consideration of the note as the cause of
action, rather than the note itself, and the judgment of the
court very pr6perly" fllowed the declaration or petition.
Reference is made in the bill of exceptions to th6 note and
the testimony in support of it rather as evidence of the
amount due to the plaintiff than as the foundation of the
suit.
3. But the plaintiff in error still relies upon the plea of
prescription, and insists that the action was barred by that
limitation. Nothing is said upon that subject in the opinion
of the court, but inasmuch as that defence was set up in the
answer, and is mentioned in the bill of exceptions as one of
the objections taken by the defendant to the right of the
plaintiff to recover, we think the point is properly bpen to
review in this court. Hamilton gave the note in liquidation
of the demand of the plaintiff, and the bill of exceptions
states that the defendant had notice of it before the death
of Hamilton, who died in August, 1855. After the death
of Hamilton his administrator made a settlement with the
defendant, and transferred to him the one-fourth of the
steamboat which belonged to his intestate, and in considera•ion of that transfer the defendant assumed and agreed to
pay all the debts due by the boat. Express statement of
the bill of exceptions is that that settlement took place on
the twenty-second day of September, 1856, and that the
cause of action in this case was included in that settlement.
Viewing the matter in that light, the court held that the
promise of the defendant to the administrator of the deceased part owner enured to the benefit of the plaintiff, and
inasmuch as it was within the year next preceding the commencement of the suit, it was doubtless the conclusion of
the court that the plea of prescription was not maintained.
Suggestion of the. defendant, however, is that there was no
satisfactory proof of the acknowledgment of the specific
amount stated in the petition, but the statement in the bill
of exceptions is substantially otherwise, and we think the
statement was fully warranted by the pleadings and evi-

Dec. 1866.]

DEWELL V. NIXON.
Opinion of the court.

dence. Assuming the facts to be s6, then it is clear that
the plea of prescription is not maintained, as the petition
was filed on the twentieth day of April, 1857, less than one
year after thie settlement was made.
4: Remaining objectioA of the present plaintiff the defendant below, is that the court erred in allowing eight per
cent. interest. Legal interest in Louisiana is fixed at five
per cent., and the legislature has provided that "convdntional interest shall in no case exceed eight per cent., under
pain of forfeiture of the entire interest so contracted."
Theory of the plaintiff in error is that the judgment was
rendered upon the note,'and that inasmuch as the note stipulated for the payment of ten per cent., the entire interest
was forfeited. Present defendant denies that theory, and
we think it cannot be sustained for the reasons already
given. Judgment was rendered on the cause of action
stated in the petition, as before explained, and not on the
note, as assumed by the present plaintiff. Conventional
interest might be eight per cent., and as the petition claimed
no more, and no more was allowed by the court, the presumption, in the absence of proof to the contrary and of
any exception to the decision of the court, is that the judgment is correct. Such a question might have been presented in the finding of the court, or it might have been
presented in the bill of exceptions on objection to the ruling
of the court. But usury was not set up, either in the original or supplemental answers, and it does not appear that
any such objection was made in the court below. Parties
might lawfully agree ihat the rate of interest should be eight
per cant., and inasmuch as that rate was demanded in the
petition and wts allowed by the court, and no objection was
taken to the ruling of the court, it must be presumed in
this court, under the state of the pleadings exhibited in the
record, that the court decided correctly.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

