UNITED STATES V. HATHAWAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The deed from the executors of Vose to Barrows bears
date on the 18th of March, 1861. Upon the trial of the case
of Barrows v. Gordon the power of attorney from the executors and the deed executed by Kingsley were properly ruled
out as void. They were not in the case. Barrows had no
title to the premises in controversy, and judgment was given
against him. This may be admitted to be conclusive as to
his want of title at that time, and, whether the decision of
the court as to the power of attorney and the deed made
under it was erroneous or not, it would have been a bar to
another action attempted to be maintained upon the same
state of facts. But this did not deprive Barrows of the right
to acquire a new and distinct title; and, having done so, he
had the same right to assert it, without prejudice from the
former suit, which would have accompanied the title into
the hands of a stranger. At the termination of that suit the
executors had not passed the title to any one. They did not
transfer it for more than a year afterwards.
How, then, can it be said to have been involved in or in
anywise affected by the prior litigation ? The plaintiff could
no more be barred than any other person who"might have
subsequently acquired the title. In refusing to instruct, and
in instructing, as appears by the record, the court committed
an error.
The judgment is therefore reversed, with costs, and the
cause will be remanded to the court below, with directions
to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

'UNITED STATES

v.

HATHAWAY.

Staves for pipes, hogsheads, and other casks, the growth and produce of the
province of Canada, imported in November, 1863, from Canada into
the United States, were not free from duty under the reciprocity treaty

of 1854 between the United States and Great Britain, by which -timbers and lumber of all kinds, round, hewed, and sawed, unmanufac-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES v. HATHAWAY.
Argument in favor of the duty.

tured in whole or in part," were to be admitted free of duty. They
were liable to pay 10 per cent. ad valorem, imposed by the sixth section
of the act of July 14th, 1862.

Tils was a certificate of division of opinion between the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The suit was brought to recover a duty of ten per centum
ad valorem, under the tariff act of 14th July, 1862, on staves
for pipes, hoqsheads, and other casks, imported by the defendants in November, 1863, from Canada into the United States..
These articles were exempt from duty by the twenty-third
section of the act of March 2d, 1861.* But a duty of ten
per centum ad valorem was imposed by the sixth section of
the act of July 14th, 1862.
By the reciprocity treaty of 1854, between this country
and Great Britain, it was stipulated that the following,
among other articles, were to be admitted free of duty:
"Timber and lumber of all kinds, round, hewed, and sawed,
unianufactured in whole or in part."
It was admitted, on the trial, by the defendants, that they
had imported from Canada West, at the time charged in the
declaration, into the United States, a quantity of white-oak
timber split in the form of pipe and hogshead staves at the
place of importation, and that, they were the growth and
produce of the province of Canada.
The main question upon which the judges divided in
opinion was, whether, under the reciprocity treaty of 1854,
between the United States and Great Britain, and the acts
of Congress on the subject, the article of staves, as above
described, were liable to duty?
The government had held that the article being split wood
was not exempt, but was liable to pay ten per cent. under
the act of July 14th, 1862.
31r. Slanbery, A. G., and 11.r. Ashton, Assistant A. G., for
the United States:
These articles are not comprehended by the treaty, unless
* 12 Stat. at Large, 196.

UNITED STATES V.

HATHAWAY.

ESup. Ct.

Argument against the duty.

it should appear-ist, that they are timber or lumber; 2d,
that they are either round, hewed, or sawed timber or lumber;
and, 3d, that they have not been subjected to any process of
manufacture.
The second and third conditions are evidently not here
fulfilled. The articles are ndt round, hewed, or sawed, but
split timber; and they are also manufactured articles, having
been made by hand, and with a special design or purpose,
into the shape and form in which they were imported. The
process of splitting, though requiring the most common
labor, is, we contend, a process of manufacture. The splitting has reduced round or hewed timber into articles of
commerce, ready and fit for immediate conversion, by machinery and the employment of a higher art, into other articles of manufacture and commerce. They were not split
and sold as mere lumber capable of being used for any purpose whatever; but they were split and sold for the particular use for which they were imported by the defendant.
Literally, anything to which the handiwork of man has
been applied becomes manufactured. The older dictionaries
confine the meaning of the word entirely to this conversion
or character given by touch of hand. The word etymologically means made by hand; but we now largely give it also
the sense of being made by machinery.
Newberry, contra:
.Mr.
The most convenient form for removal from the forests
and for transportation, into which oak and other straightgrained hard-wood timber can be reduced, is that of the
rough-split pipe and hogshead stave, so called, and such
form is also best adapted for the preservation of wood in
seasoning, &c.
To reduce the timber into such form does not require
skilled labor of the mechanic, but requires only the most
common unskilled labor.
Timber split in this form, though called "rough-split pipe
and hogshead staves," is not wholly or mainly used for the
manufacture of hogsheads, pipes, or other casks, but is used

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. HATHAWAY.

407

Opinion of the court.

in the manufacture of many articles manufactured wholly or
in part of wood, and used also, extensively, as tonnage and
in the storage of cargoes of ships and vessels.
By coopers, such timber is known as "coopers' timber,"
and is considered and treated as raw material.
In the light of these facts this timber must be held to be
unmanufactured, raw material, as much so as any sawed
lumber. The fact that timber thus split is commonly called
by a name which would seem to indicate a manufactured
article is of no consequence whatever. Lumber sawed into
particular forms takes such names as, for example, "flooring," "siding," "deck plank," "lath," &c., &c. Yet such
lumber is not held to be manufactured. Staves are but a
species of lumber. Webster, in his dictionary, defines "lumber" to be "timber sawed or split for use, as bearers, joyce,
boards, planks, slaves, and the like." The labor necessary to
be extended to reduce the timber to the form of sawed lumber is evidently greater and more skilled than that necessary
to reduce it to the form of rough-split pipe or hogshead
staves, so called. What reason, then, could have operated
to induce a discrimination in the treaty in favor of the former? We submit that none can be imagined, and that none
was contemplated or intended.
Mr. Justice N ELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The construction given to the clause of the treaty by the
government excluded the article in question from the free
list, and subjected it to the duty of the existing tariff law,
which was in the present instance the act of 1862. The regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury declared, that articles of wood entered under the designations of the treaty
remained liable to the duty, if manufactured, in whole or in
part, by planing, shaving, turning, splitting, or riving, or
any process of manufacture, other than rough-hewing or
sawing.*
We think this a sound construction of the word& of the
* Reg. 1857, p. 498,

2, Art. 921.

UNITED STATES V. QUIMBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clause. The treaty admits free of duty, "timber and lumber
of all kinds," with certain specified limitations, "round,
hewed, and sawed;" which limitations, as respects this
branch of the clause, are determined either by the form, or
by the work bestowed on the article,--the timber or lumber
must be round, hewed, or sawed; if neither, then the article is not brought within the description, and if otherwise
brought within it, there is still a further limitation,-" unmanufactured, in whole or in part." The article may be
round, hewn, or sawed, but if it has undergone the process
of manufacture, even in part, it is taken out of the free list.
In the present case the article is prepared by splitting for
the hand of the cooper, in the manufacture of the pipe or
hogshead, a process which has the effect to relieve him from
much of the labor that would otherwise be required in adapting it to the use intended. It has been already reduced to
the proper form and size-a work which, in the first stages
of the manufacture of the hogshead, must be done, and by
which a considerable advance is made in fitting and finish-

ing it for the market.
As this treaty has been annulled, the question is no longer
of any general importance; and as we concur in the interpretation given to it by the Secretary of the Treasury, it is
unnecessary to extend this opinion.
The court answer the question
I±N THE AFFIRMATrVE.

INoTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was disposed
of another, coming, like it, from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Mlichigan, on a
division of opinion of the judges. It was thusUNITED STATES V. QuIMBY.
Split white-ash timber, chiefly designed to be used in the manufacture of
long shovel handles, the growth and product of the Province of Canada,
and imported from there into the United States, were not free from duty

