Dec. 1866.]

BARROWS

V.

MIXDRED.

Statement of the case.

the voluntary action of many of those persons affected by
the laws under consideration; nor, on the other hand, of
the hardships which they are now suffering, much more as
a consequence of that action than of any laws which Congress can possibly frame. But I have endeavored to bring
to the examination of the grave questions of constitutional
law involved in this inquiry those principles alone which
are calculated to assist in determining what the law is,
rather than what, in my private judgment, it ought to be.

BARROWS V. KINDRED.
Although when statute abolishing its fictitious forms places the action of
ejectment on the same footing with other actions, as to the conclusiveness of the judgment, the court will give effect to the same; yet where
a plaintiff in ejectment is defeated in one suit, where he claimed through
a power of attorney rightly ruled out on the trial as void, he will not
be held to be concluded in a subsequent action where he claims under a
new deed made by the executors themselves. Having acquired a new
and distinct title, he has the same right to assert it, without prejudice
from the former suit, as a stranger would have had it passed to him.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois; the case being thus:
The statute of Illinois regulating the action of ejectment
abolishes all fictions. Its twenty-ninth section provides that
"every judgment in the action of ejectment rendered upon
a verdict shall be conclusive as to the title established in
such action, upon the party against whom the same is rendered, and against all persons claiming from, through, or
under such party, by title accruing after the commencement
of such action, subject to the exceptions hereinafter named,"
exceptions not material to be noticed. With this statute in
force, the plaintiff in error brought an action of ejectment
against the defendant in error in the court below, and upon
the trial produced a chain of title, consisting of a patent

BARROWS V. KINDRED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

from the United States to Whitney, a deed from Whitney
to Vose, the will of Vose, and a deed from his executors to
the plaintiff. This deed was dated March 18th, 1861.
The validity of these several links was not denied. They
made the chain of title complete, and prim( facie entitled the
plaintiff to recover the premises in controversy.
The defendant, thereupon, gave in evidence the record of
a judgment relating to the same premises-rendered in a
former action of ejectment-wherein the plaintiff in error
was the plaintiff, and James RI. Gordon was defendant.
The judgment was in favor of the latter. This suit was begun
on the 12th 74ne, 1858, and ended June 5th, 1859.
The defendant also proved that he was in possession as
the tenant of Gordon; that in the former action set forth in
the record in question the plaintiff, Barrows, gave in evidence
the same patent from the United States to Whitney, the same
deed from Whitney to Vose, a power of attorney from the
executors of Vose to S. A. Kingsley, authorizing him to sell
and convey the premises, a deed from the executors by Kingsley as their attorney infact, to Scroggs, and a deed from Scroggs
to the plaintifi This power of attorney from the executors, and
the deed (xecuted by Kingsley, were ruled out as void.
The defendant proved, further, that the deed from the
executors of Vose to the plaintiff was given upon the same
consideration as the former deed by their attorneys in fact

to Scroggs.
The evidence being closed, the plaintiff asked the court
to charge the jury, that the record and evidence relating to
the former trial constituted no bar to his right to recover in
this action. This the court refused to do, and thereupon
charged that the record in connection with the evidence did
constitute a bar. The jury found accordingly for the defendant.
To the admission of each of the several parts of this evidence, to the refusal of the court to charge as asked, and to
the charge given, the defendant excepted.
The correctness of these instructions was the question
now before this court.

Dec. 1866.]

BAlows v. KIxDRED.
Argument for the conclusiveness.

Mr. Grimshaw,for Mhe plaintiff in error:
In the first action, the plaintiff was beaten; because, after
deducing title in fee from the government to Vose, he failed
to trace title from Vose to himself; because-in point of fact,
as we may here state-Vose's executors, who had power to
sell, had delegated it without authority of law to an attorney,
who had conveyed to the plaintiff. And in the second action
plaintiffwas again beaten, after he had acquired title directly
from the executors, subsequent to the judgment in first suit,
because he had been beaten in the first suit for want of title,
when he commenced the first action.
The -present plaintiff was properly defeated in the first
suit, because, although he traced title from the government
to Vose, he failed to iace it to himself.
In the second suit, by title acquired from Vose,,through
his executors, who had power to convey" he showed title in
himself, acquired after the former judgment, and regularly
derived from the government through Vose to himself.
He should not be defeated in the first suit, because when
he brought that suit he had no title, and then defeated in
this suit, because, after the first suit had terminated, he
acquired a paramount legal title.
The trial, as far as the plaintiff is concerned, relates to
the state of title as it existed in plaintiff when he brought
his suit. If he fails in his suit, defendant goes "without
day;" but no title is established by plaintiff's defeat.*
.MTr. Browning, contra:
The statute has given to the judgment in ejectment the
same conclusive effect that other judgments have. Similar
statutes exist in a number of the States, and many cases
decided under them may be referred to.t
* Smith v. Sherwood, 4 Connecticut, 279; Easten v. Rucker, 1 J. J.
Marshall, 234.
t Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wallace, 44; Blanchard v. Brown, 3 Id. 245;
Gibson v. Manly, 15 Illinois, 140; Frazer v. Weller, 6 McLean, 12; Beebe
v. Elliot, 4 Barbour, 457; Marvin v. Dennison, 1 Blatchford, 160; Edwards
VOL. IV.

26

BARROWS V.

KINDRED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The object of the statute is to put an end to litigation,
and give repose to society by preventing the same precise
question from being twice litigated between the same parties
or their privies; and, in applying the statute, the court looks
to the claim of the party and the issue joined upon it, and not
to the accidents of the trial, to determine whether the first
judgment is a bar to the second suit.
Here the plaintiff is the same; the defendant in the second
suit is the tenant of the defendant in the first suit; the land
sued for is the same; the interest claimed in it the same;
the plea the same; putting the title, and that only, in issue
in both suits.
The title, therefore, was the thing in issue; and the rule is,
that when a matter is once put in issue, the verdict and
judgment, whilst they stand, estop the parties from retrying the "Same issue.
And the effect is the same, whether the parties were preeared for trial or not. The force of the judgment, as an
estoppel, is in no degree impaired by the failure of the
plaintiff to produce evidence to support his claim.*
Mr. Justice SWAYINTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question of error in the instructions given by the
court is the hinge of the controversy between the parties.
The statute of Illinois regulating the action of ejectment

abolishes all fictions. The twenty-ninth section provides
that "every judgment in the action of ejectment rendered
upon a verdict shall be conclusive as to the title established
in such action, up6n the party against whom the same is
rendered, and against all persons claiming from, through,
or under such party, by title accruing after the commencev. Roys, 18 Vermont, 478; Sims v. Smith, 19 Georgia, 124; Wood v. Jackson, 8 Wendell, 35; Hall v. Dodge, 38 New Hampshire, 351; Chamberlain
v. Carlisle, 26 Id. 540.
* Marriott v. Hampton, 7 Durnford & East, 269; Bateman v. Willoo,
1 Schoales & Lefroy, 204; Le Guen v. Governeur & Kemble, 1 Johnson's
Cases, 495; White v. Ward, 9 Johnson, 232; Grant v. Button, 14 Id. 377;
Gaines v. Hennen, 24 Howard, 621-22; Outram v. Morewood and Wife, 3
East, 346; Eastmure v. Laws, 5 Bingham's New Cases, 451.

Dec. 1866.]

BARROWS V. KINDRED.

Opinion of the court.

ment of such action, subject to the exceptions hereinafter
named."
It is not claimed that the exceptions referred to affect this
case.
Where a judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the title
upon which he recovered is thereby established, and the
construction and effect of the statute are obvious. He must
recover in all cases, if at all, upon the strength of his own
title, and not upon the weakness of his adversary's. It is
not incumbent upon the defendant to show any title. Where
a plaintiff shows no title, and is therefore defeated, it is not
easy to perceive how any title can be said to have been established in the action, or how, under the statute, the result
can affect his right to bring a new action for the same premises. We are not advised of any authoritative interpretation
of the statute, in this aspect, by the courts of Illinbis. If
one were shown we should follow it. But, in the view
which we take of this case, it may be conceded that the
judgment has the same effect upon the parties, and those in
privity with them, as a judgment in a common-law action.
As a general proposition, such a judgment is a bar to any
future litigation between the parties, and all claiming under
them, touching the subject involved in the controversy. It
is conclusive of their rights, and shuts the door to further
inquiry. This is an elementary principle of all civilized
jurisprudence. It has been, and will be, applied in this
court upon all proper occasions. It is a principle of repose,
and fruitful of good. When the legislature of any State has
seen fit to divest the action of ejectment of its ancient characteristics, and to place it upon the same footing with other
actions, we have not failed to give full effect to the legislative intent by maintaining the conclusiveness of the judgment, as in other cases.
But, in our judgment, this principle has no application to
the case before us.
The suit between Barrows and Gordon was commenced
on the 12th of June, 1858, and terminated on the 5th of
June, 1859.

UNITED STATES V. HATHAWAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

The deed from the executors of Vose to Barrows bears
date on the 18th of March, 1861. Upon the trial of the case
of Barrows v. Gordon the power of attorney from the executors and the deed executed by Kingsley were properly ruled
out as void. They were not in the case. Barrows had no
title to the premises in controversy, and judgment was given
against him. This may be admitted to be conclusive as to
his want of title at that time, and, whether the decision of
the court as to the power of attorney and the deed made
under it was erroneous or not, it would have been a bar to
another action attempted to be maintained upon the same
state of facts. But this did not deprive Barrows of the right
to acquire a new and distinct title; and, having done so, he
had the same right to assert it, without prejudice from the
former suit, which would have accompanied the title into
the hands of a stranger. At the termination of that suit the
executors had not passed the title to any one. They did not
transfer it for more than a year afterwards.
How, then, can it be said to have been involved in or in
anywise affected by the prior litigation ? The plaintiff could
no more be barred than any other person who"might have
subsequently acquired the title. In refusing to instruct, and
in instructing, as appears by the record, the court committed
an error.
The judgment is therefore reversed, with costs, and the
cause will be remanded to the court below, with directions
to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

'UNITED STATES

v.

HATHAWAY.

Staves for pipes, hogsheads, and other casks, the growth and produce of the
province of Canada, imported in November, 1863, from Canada into
the United States, were not free from duty under the reciprocity treaty

of 1854 between the United States and Great Britain, by which -timbers and lumber of all kinds, round, hewed, and sawed, unmanufac-

