Dec. 1866.1

SEMPLE V.' HAGAR.

Statement of the case.

mestic. There is, then, a peculiar wisdom in giving to the
national government a jurisdiction of this sort which cannot
be yielded, except for the general good, and which multiplies the securities for the public peace abroad, and gives to
commerce and navigation the most encouraging support at
home."*
The case before us is not within the saving clause of the
ninth section. That clause only saves to suitors "the right
of a common-law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it."

It is not a remedy in the common-law

courts which is saved, but a common-law remedy. A proceediug in ren, as used in the admiralty courts, is not a remedy afforded by the common-law; it is a proceeding under
the civil law. When used in the common-law courts, it is
given by statute.
It follows, from the views expressed, that the judgment of
the County Court must be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with di'ections to dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction.
AND

IT IS S0 ORDERED.

SEM-PLE V. IAGAR.
1. *When a want of jurisdiction is patent, or can be readily ascertained by
an examination of the record in advance of an examination of the questions on the argument of the merits, this court will entertain and act
upon a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
2. 'Where two parties held patents for land from the United States, under
3Mexican grants, both of which included the same lands in part, and
one of the parties brought a suit in a State court to vacate the patent of
the other, to the extent of the conflict of title, and the State court refused to entertain jurisdiction of the question, and dismissed the complaint, this court has no jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, to review the judgments.
SEMPLE filed a bill against Hagar in one of the State courts
of California. The bill alleged that he, the complainant
* Commentaries,

1672.

432

SEMPLE V. EAGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

Semple, had obtained a patent from the United States for a
tract of land, based upon a Mlexican grant for the same land,
known as the "Colus" grant; that the land so granted had
been surveyed by the United States, and included certain
lands enumerated; that the defendants claimed part of the
same land under a Mexican grant known as the "Jimeno"
grant, for which a patent had also been issued by the United
States to the defendants; that the surveys of the said grants
overlapped; that the grant of the "Jimeno" tract had been
obtained by fraud and was a cloud on the complainant's
title. The prayer of the bill was that the court might declare "the said fraudulent grant, commonly called the I Jimeno Rancho,' void, and of no effect, as issued upon false
suggestions, and without authority of law."
The defendant.demurred to this bill, setting forth nine
several grounds of demurrer, and among them these:
1st. That the court had no jurisdiction of the subject of
the action.
2d. That there was a defect of parties plaintiff.
8d. That there was a defect of parties defendant.
The court below made a decree dismissing the bill; a decree which on appeal the Supreme Court of California, the
highest court of equity of the State, affirmed.
The case was then brought here as being within the
*twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, which enacts that
the final decree in the highest court of law or equity of a
State, &c., where there is drawn in question the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States and the decision is against the validity, or drawn in question the construction of any clause of a statute or commission held under
the United States, and the decision is against the title specially set up by either party under such statute or commission, may be reviewed in this court.
Mr.Wills, for the defendant in error, now, and in advance
of the case being regularly called, moved-the record being
a short one, and of but ten pages-to dismiss the writ of error
for want of jurisdiction. He thus argued:

Dec. 1866.]

SEMPLE V.

HTAGAR.

Opinion of the court.

1. The State courts of California had no jurisdiction of
the subject of the action. This court has held, in -"eld v.
Seabu&j,* that the question of the validity of a patent for
land is "a question exclusively between the sovereignty
making the grant and the grantee." The courts of California, carrying out this doctrine, have held, that "a patent
imports absolute verity, and that it can only be vacated and
set aside by direct proceedings instituted by the government, or by parties acting in the name and by the authority
of the government."t
2. It has been decided by the court, in Moreland v. Page,,J
that this court has not jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, to review the judgment of a
State court, when the question involved relates to the proper
boundary between two tracts of land, although the owners
of both had valid grants from the United States.
Mr. Reverdy Johnson, for the plaintifi in error,contra, argued
in support of the jurisdiction; contending, also, that the question, whether the jurisdiction did or did not exist, was one
which the court would not settle in this preliminary way;
that the question could not be settled without a thorough
examination of the record; and that this could not be made
until the case came up in regular order; that then, when the
court would understand the whole matter, it could better
decide the delicate matter of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
In all cases of a motion to dismiss the writ of error for
want of jurisdiction, the court must necessarily examine the
record to find the questions decided by the State court. But
in many cases the question of jurisdiction is so involved with
the other questions decided in the case, that this court cannot
eliminate it without the examination of a voluminous record,
* 19 Howard, 332.
t Leese v. Clarke, 18 California, 571; Same v. Same, 20 Id. 423. See, also)
Beard v. Federy, 3 Wallace, 479.
4 20 Howard, 522.

VOL. IV.

28

SEMPLE

v.

H]AGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and passing on the whole merits of the case. In such instaDces, the court will reserve the question of jurisdiction
till the case is heard on the final argument on the merits.
In the case before us, the want of jurisdiction is patent;
it requires no investigation of a long bill of exceptions. It
was not decided by the court below on its merits, if it had
any. It furnishes no reason for a postponement of our decision of the question.
If, in such cases, the court would postpone the consideration of the question of jurisdiction, we would put it in the
power of every litigant in a State court to obtain a stay of
execution for three years, or more, by a frivolous pretence
that it comes within the provisions of the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act. In many States, all the land titles
originated in patents from the United States; and if every
question of boundary, of descent, of construction of wills,
of contracts, &c., and which may arise in State courts, may
be brought here on the mere suggestion that the party,
against whom the State court gave their judgment, derived
title under a patent from the United States, we should enlarge our jurisdiction to thousands of cases, and increase,
unnecessarily, the burdens of this court, with no corresponding benefit to the litigant. It is plain that, in such cases,
there is not "drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or
statute of; or an authority exercised under, the United
States."
We have here a very brief record, and, on the facts of the
case, we cannot shut our eyes to the total want of jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section, or any other section of
the Judiciary Act.
It is plain, that if the court had assumed jurisdiction, and
had declared the defendant's patent void, for the reason
alleged in the bill, the defendant would have had a case
which might have been reviewed by this court, under the
twenty-fifth section, and one on which there might have
been a question and difference of opinion. But it is hard
to perceive how the twenty-fifth section could apply to a
judgment of a State court, which did NOT decide that ques-

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS

V.

UNITED STATES.

435

Statement of the case.

tion, and refused to take jurisdiction of the case.
matter is too plain for argument.

The

MOTION GRANTED.

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES, EX RELATIONE
1. On application by a creditor for mandamus against county officers to levy
a tax to pay a judgment, the defendant cannot impeach the judgment by
setting up that interest was improperly given in it. This would be to
impeach it collaterally.
2. The statute of Illinois, which enacts that when ajudgment is given against
a county, the county cbmmissioner shall draw a warrant upon the treasurer for the amount, "which shall be paid as other county debts," cannot be taken advantage of on error, in case of an application for a mandamnus to levy a tax to pay a judgment, where such a warrant was applied
for and refused, and where there are no funds in the county treasury
with which to pay the judgment.
3. Where power is given by statute to public officers, in permissive language
-as that they "'may,if deemed advisable," do a certain thing-the language used will be regarded as peremptory where the public interest or
individual rights require that it should be.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, the case being thus:
A statute of Illinois, of February 16th, 1863, enacts as

follows:
"The board of supervisors under township organization, in
such counties as may be owing debts which their current re'enue, under existing laws, is not sufficient to pay, may, ifdeemed
advisable, levy a special tax, not to exceed in any one year one
per cent. upon the taxable property of any such county, to be
assessed and collected in the same manner and at the same time
and rate of compensation as other county taxes, and when collected to be kept as a separate fund, in the county treasury, and
to be expended under the direction of the said county court or
board of supervisors, as the case may be, in liquidation of such
indebtedness."

*With this statute in force, the State Bank, relator in the

