174

STURDY V. JACIAWAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

operating upon a previous fact, yet the restricted sense stated
is the one in which it has always been held. It was the sense
in which it was understood at the time the Constitution was
adopted, both in this country and in England.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

STURDY V. JACKAWAY.
A final judgment pronounced in an action of ejeetment, where the claim of

title in fee simple absolute by the parties respectively was the sole subject of controversy, instituted and prosecuted under and according to
the forms and in the manner prescribed by the statute laws of the State
of Arkansas, that is to say, by a suit between the real litigants by name
and where the land is accurately described, is a valid legal bar to a like
action subsequently instituted between the same parties for the same
lands or premises, involving the same identical title and rights to the
-possession of such lands or premises and none other.
Semble. The doctrine is applicable generally in ejectments, in the form
above described, in those States where no provision is made by statute
for a subsequent trial.

brought ejectment against Jackaway in one of the
State courts of Arkansas to recover a tract of land in that
State, the action being brought not in the English fictitious
form used still in some States of the Union, but in the way
now more common with us-and which prevails in Arkansas
-where the parties sue, as in other cases, in their true
names, and where the land claimed is described so as to be
capable of complete identification. Judgment was given for
the defendant; and the case having gone to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas the judgment was there affirmed. He
then brought another ejectment for the same premises in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and the defendant having pleaded the
former judgment the plaintiff demurred. The judges of the
STURDY

* 1 Blackstone, 46; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 390.

Dec. 1866.]

STURDY V. JACKAWAY.

Opinion of the court.

Circuit Court being opposed in opinion as to the sufficiency
of the demurrer, the following questions were certified to
'the court:
°lst. Is said plea good in law as a bar to this action?
2d. Is a final judgment pronounced in an action of ejeetment,
where the claim of title in fee simple absolute by the parties
respectively was the sole subject of controversy, instituted and
prosecuted under and according to the forms and in the manner prescribed by the statute laws of the State of Arkansas, a
valid, legal barto a like'action, subsequently instituted between
the same parties, for the same lands or premises, involving the
same identical title and rights to the possession of such lands
or premises, and none other?
There wag nothing shown by the record or otherwise to
indicate that the statute law of Arkansas made a distinction
between ejectment and other actions as to the conclusiveness
of a verdict and judgment.
31
f. Carlisle, with a brief of Mr. Watlins,
for the defendant.
No counsel contra.
'Ur. Justice GRlER delivered the opinion of the court.
The two questions certified by the court below constitute
but one.
It is a well-settled principle of the common law "that in
personal actions concerning debts, goods, and effects (by
way of distinction from other actions), a recovery in one
action is a bar to another. This principle is not true of personal actions alone, but is equally and universally true of all
actions, whatsoever quoad their subject-matter; and'that an
allegation on record, on which issue has been once taken
and found, is, between the parties taking it and their privies,
conclusive, according to the finding thereof, so as to estop
the parties respectively from again litigating that fact once
tried and found.":"
The action of ejectment was devised for a lessee of a term
* Outram v. Morewood, 8 East, 356.

STURDY V.

JACKAWAY.

[Sup."Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of years, who was ousted of his term, and who, having but
a chattel interest, could not support a real action to recover
possession. It was but an action of trespass in effect, and
the remedy was in damages only for the dispossession. But
afterward the court determined the lessee should not only
recover damages, but also his term, which soon brought the
action into general use; and, by the formal scaffolding of a
lease, entry, and ouster, the action was converted into a
method of trying, collaterally and incidentally, the title of
the lessor.
Hence, as the title of the freehold was never formally and
directly in issue by the pleadings, but only a trespass committed by John Doe on Richard Roe, in forcibly expelling
him from a term of years, no verdict between these parties
for the supposed trespass could be pleaded in bar to another
action of trespass by Thomas Troublesome on Timothy
Peaceable.
It was in this way that the doctrine crept in that a verdict
and judgment were conclusive only as regards personalty.
Afterwards, when this fictitious scaffolding was demolished in many States, and the parties made their issue in
their own names-where there could be no difficulty as to
the estoppel-the idea of a difference between rights to
real property and personalty still continued in many States
to linger, and a single verdict and judgment in ejectment
was not considered conclusive. In such States provision
*as usually made by statute for a second trial.
But where no such provision has been made, the party's
privilege to plead his estoppel, according to his right at com1xjon law, has always been recognized by the court.*
We find nothing in the statutes of Arkansas, or in their
judicial decisions, making any exceptions or difference as to
the conclusiveness of a verdict and judgment in real or personal action.

This question must, therefore, be answered
IN
* See

THE AFrIRMATIVE.

Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wallace, 35; Blanchard v. Brown, 3 Id. 245.

