Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MIISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.
Statement of the case.

THE, STATE OF MississiPPi V. JOHNSON, PRESIDENT.
1. The President of the United States cannot be restrained by injunction
from carrying into effect an act of Congress alleged to be unconstitutional, nor will a bill having such a purpose be allowed to be filed.
2. It makes no difference whether such incumbent of the Presidential office
be described in the bill as President or simply as a citizen of a State.

THIs was a motion made by Messrs. Sharkey and B. .
Walker, on behalf of the State of Mississippi, for leave to file
a bill in the name of the State prayifig this court perpetually
to enjoin and restrain Andrew Johnson, a citizen of the
State of Tennessee and President of the United States, and his
officers and agents appointed for that purpose, and especially
E. 0. C. Ord, assigned as military commander of the district
where the State of Mississippi is, from executing or in any
manner carrying out two acts of Congress named in the bill,
one "An act for the more efficient government of the rebel
States," passed March 2d, 1867, notwithstanding the President's veto of it as unconstitutional, and the other an act
supplementary to it, passed in the same way March 23d,
1867; acts commonly called the Reconstruction Acts.
The former of these acts, reciting that no legal State governments or adequate protection for life or property now
exists in the rebel States of Virginia, Korth Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Florida,
Texas, and Arkansas, and that it was necessary that peace
and good order should be enforced in them until loyal and
republican State governments could be legally established,
divided the States named into five military districts, and
made it the duty of the President to assign to each one an
officer of the army, and to detail a sufficient military force
to enable him to perform his duties and enforce his anth6rity within his district. It made it the duty of this
officer to protect all persons in their rights, to suppress insurrection, disorder, violence, and to punish, or cause to be
punished, all disturbers of the public peace and criminals,
either through the local civil tribunals or through military

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

commissions, which the act authorized. It provided, further,
that on the formation of new constitutions and certain conditions which the act prescribed, the States respectively
should be declared entitled to representation in Congress
and the preceding part of the act become inoperative; and
that until they were so admitted any civil governments
which might exist in them should be deemed provisional
only, and subject to the paramount authority of the United
States, at any time to abolish, modify, control, or supersede it.
The second of the two acts related chiefly to the registration of voters who were to form the new constitutions of the
States in question.
The bill set out the political history of M'ississippi so far
as related to its having become one of the United States;
and "that forever after it was impossible for her people, or
for the State in its corporate capacity, to dissolve that connection with the other States, and that any attempt to do so
by secession: or otherwise was a nullity;" and she "now
solemnly asserted that her connection with the Federal government was not in anywise thereby destroyed or impaired ;"
and she averred and charged "that the Congress of the
United States cannot constitutionally expel her from the
Union, and that any attempt which practically does so is a
nullity."
The bill then went on:
"The acts in question annihilate the State and its government, by assuming for Congress the power to control, modify,
and even abolish its government-in short, to exert sovereign
power over it-and the utter destruction of the State must be
the consequence of their execution. They also violate a wellknown salutary principle in governments, the observance of
which can alone preserve theni, by making the civil power subordinate to the military power, and thus establish a military
rule over the States enumerated in the act, and make a prece-

dent by which the government of the United States may be
converted into a military despotism, in which every man may
be deprived of his goods, lands, liberty, and life, by the breath

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.
Statement of the case.

of a military commander, or the sentence of the military commission or tribunal, without the benefit of trial by jury, and
without the observance of any of those requirements and guarantees by which the Constitution and laws so plainly protect

and guard the rights of the citizen. And the more effectually
to accomplish this purpose the said acts divide the ten Southern
States into five military districts, and make it the duty of the
President to assign an officer to the command of each district,
and to place a sufficient force under him, whose will is to be the
law and his soldiers the power that executes it. It is declared
to be his duty to protect all persons in their rights of person
and property; to suppress insurrections, disorder, and violence;
and to punish, or cause to be punished, all disturbers of the
peace and criminals; and he may organize military commissions
and tribunals to try offenders when he may think proper. But,
by what rule or law is he to judge of the rights of person or
property? By what rule or law is he to arrest, try, and punish
criminals? By what rule or law is he to judge whether they
have committed crimes? The answer to these questions is
plain,-by his own will; for, though he may adopt the State authorities as his instruments if he will, yet h'e may reject them
if he will. A scope of power so broad, so comprehensive, was
never before vested in a military commander in any government
which guards the rights of its citizens or subjects by law. It
embraces necessarily all those subjects over which the States
reserved the power to legislate for themselves, as essential to
their existence as States, including the domestic relations, all
the rights of property, real and personal; the rights of personal
security and personal liberty; and assumes the right to control
the whole of the domestic concerns of the State. These acts
also provide that the governments now existing in the Southern
States are but provisional governments; subject to the paramount authority of Congress, which may at any time abolish,
modify, control, or supersede them."
It then charged that, from' information and belief, the
said Andrew Johnson, President, in violation of the Constitution, and in violation of the sacred rights of the States,
would proceed, notwithstanding his vetoes, and as a mere
mWinsterial duty, to the execution of said acts, as though they

478

STATE or Mississippi v. JoHNsoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of filing.

were the law of the land, which the vetoes prove he would
not do if he had any discretion, or that in doing so he performed anything more than a mere ministerial duty; and
that with the view to the execution of said acts he had assigned General E. 0. C. Ord to the command of the States
of Mississippi and Arkansas.
Upon an intimation made a few days before by Mr. Sharkey, of his desire to file this bill, the Attorney-General
objected to it in limine, as containing matter not fit to be
received. The Chief Justice then stated that while as a
general thing a motion to file a bill was granted as of
course, yet if it was suggested that the bill contained scandalous or impertinent matter, or was in other respects improper to be received, the court would either examine the
bill or refer it to a master for examination. The only
matter, therefore, which would now be considered was the
question of leave to file the bill.
Messrs. Sharkey, B. J. Walker, and Garland, by briefs filed:
Can the President of the United States be made a party
defendant to this bill? There is no precedent directly to
the point. Yet it is believed the question has been virtually
settled. It is important, in this connection, to mark the
distinction between what are called political powers and
such as are ministerial. In the exercise of discretionary or
political powers, courts will not undertake to control the
action of officers; but not so with regard to ministerial
duties, in the exercise of which no one is above the law,
however exalted his position. Fortunately, we have neither
a king nor an emperor, nor a parliament, who are omnipotent or above the Constitution.
Our Constitution declares that "the judicial power shall
extend to all cases in law and equity arising under this Constitution," &c. And thus the judiciary are made the guardians and protectors of the Constitution.
The President is but the creature of the Constitution, one
of the agencies created by it to carry it into practical opera-

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSo.

479

Argument in favor of filing.

lion; and it would be strange if he should be permitted to
exert his agency in violating that instrument, and then claim
exemption from the process of the court whose duty it is to
guard it against abuses, because he is the chief executive
officer of the government, and especially when he is exerting a mere ministerial duty; for that is all he does exert in
executing an act of Congress; he has no discretion in the
matter. The Constitution makes no distinction as to parties.
The case is the criterion, no matter who is plaintiff or who
defendant; and if the President be exempt from the process
of the law, he is above the law. On the trial of Aaron Burr,
an application was made for a subpna dAces tecum, to be directed to the President of the United States; and the application was resisted on the ground that the President was
not amenable to the process of the court, and could not be
drawn from the discharge of his duties at the seat of government, and made to attend the court sitting at Richmond.
But Chief Justice Marshall, who tried the case, drew the
distinction between the President and the King of England, and held that all officers in this country were subordinate to the law, and must obey its mandate, and, therefore,
sustained the application. There, the subpoend duces tecum
was only a command to the President to do a particular
thing. Here, the injunction asked for is but a command to
him not to do a particular thing under a void authority.
The principle is the same in the two cases, as well as the
means of coercing obedience; and the reasoning of Chief
Justice XNfarshall reaches and settles the question now before
this court. The Constitution provides, indeed, that all officers
may be impeached; but this does not exonerate them from
personal liability for acts done under color of office, the
President as well as other officers.
If the President be exempt, why not all his cabinet
officers? They all constitute but parts of the executive department of the government. Yet in Marbury v. 31Jadison,
S'ecretary of StatL, " it wa. decided that the acts of the Secre* 1 Cranch, 137.

STATE OF MIssissIPPI v. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of filing.

tary of State were the acts of the President, and 'that the
secretary might be subjected to the process of mandamus.
Why would it not just as well lie against the President? It
would be strange to hold that the subordinate is liable and
may be sued for acts which are the acts of his principal, and
yet that the principal is not liable and cannot be subjected
to the process of law. Even more recently, in the cases of
Mr. Kendall, Postmaster-General, and of Mr. Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury, this court has decided that officers of
the executive department are liable to the process of the
court.* The case of _Ellis v. Earl Gray,t is a leading case in
England, and has been approved in this court. It was there
decided that the Lords of the Treasury, constituting the
prominent department of the executive government, might
be enjoined by the judicial department. In that country,
the King is supposed to be above the law, and is the fountain
of justice; yet his immediate subordinate departments are
not above it. In this country the President is not above the
law; it is above him, and hence he must be subject to its
restraints.

In The State of Ohio ex rel. v. Chase, Governor,t the objection
was raised, that a mandamus would not lie against the governor. But, in delivering the opinion, Chief Justice Bartley
said:
"Under our system of government, no officer is placed above
the restraining authority of the law, which is truly said to be
universal in its behests, all paying it homage, the least as feeling.its care, and the greatest as not being exempt from its
power."

If the chief executive officer of a State is liable to be controlled by the courts of the State in the discharge of ministerial duties, for much stronger reasons is the chief executive
officer of the United States liable to be controlled by this
court under the provisions of the Federal Constitution. In
* Kendall v. The United States, 12 Peters, 524; United States v. Guthrie,
17 Howard, 284.
- 6 Simons, 214.
5 Ohio State, 529.

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

481

Argument against filing.

Greene v. .Mumford,* the Supreme Court of Rhode Island
said, in regard to officers:
"If they are departing from the power which the law has
vested in them, if they are assuming to themselves a power
over property which the law does not give them, this court no
longer considers them as acting under their commission, but
treats them as individuals."

By the same principle, the President, when acting in opposition to the Federal Constitution, may be treated as an
individual.
II. Does the bill present a case proper for the intdrposition of this court? [The learned counsel then went fully
into this point, enlarging upon and enforcing, by argument
and authority, the positions set forth in the bill itself.]
31r. ,Sanbery, A. G., contra:
It is manifest here that the case made against Andrew
Johnson is not made against him as an individual, as a
natural person, for any acts that he intends to do as Andrew
Johnson the man, but altogether in his official capacity as
President of the United States. The evil complained of, so
far as he is concerned, is in the execution of what he considers to be his official duty (as they say, notwithstanding his
vetoes), to execute certain acts of Congress by appointing
the necessary officers. By his seeing to the execution of
those laws the mishief ensues of which they complain; and,
therefore, they ask this court to make him a party defendant;
they ask this court to submit him, as President, to the process of subpcena; to compel his attendance; to bring him, as
President, within the power of this court; and to compel
him, by the power whicha court of equity possesses to enforce its decrees, to do that, in regard to these laws, which
this court may deem to be proper.
The opposing counsel admit that this is a case of the first
impression; that they have no precedent for such a bill; but
* 5 Rhode Island, 472.

VOL. IV.

31

482

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against filing.

they have certain analogies, they think, under which this
court will find power to bring the President here, and make
him perform the behests of this court. It will be observed
that there is no allegation that the President is about to do
anything of his own motion, which, as President, he is not
authorized to do. The allegation is, that he is about to execute certain laws passed by Congress; that he considers it his
duty to execute those laws; but that this court is a better
judge of his duty as President than the President himself;
and that when he seeks to execute a law, and to avoid impeachment and denouncement as unfaithful to his duty as
Executive, this court is to interfere and tell him what his
duty is in the premises, and compel him to perform it.
Now, I beg attention to the cases upon which the counsel
rely, not as in point, but as in close analogy; and, first of all,
is what was decided in the case of Burr, by Chief Justice
M'Aarshall. In the course of the prosecution against Colonel
Burr, his counsel deemed it necessary that they should have
possession of a certain letter written to the then President,
Mfr. Jefferson, by General Wilkinson. It did not exactly
appear whether it was a private letter or an official letter,
but it was said to be a letter in the possession of the President. The counsel of Colonel Burr moved for a subpcona to
be issued by the court to the President, commanding him
to appear and bring with him that paper. The question was
argued by the counsel for the United States, and by the
counsel for Colonel Burr; and, although the counsel for the
United States did not admit that such process could be
issued against the President, they waived the point, and the
whole argument was upon the right of the party to have the
paper itself. They got upon that side issue, and did not argue,
but merely stated the other point, that, according to their
idea, a subpcna could not issue against the President. However, when Chief Justice Marshall came to decide the matter,
undoubtedly he was of opinion that a subpoena might issue
against the President, as President, to produce a paper in
his possession as President. Counsel in this case argue
from that, if the President is liable to the process of the

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.
Argument against filing.

court by subpcena to testify, he is liable to the process and
the action of the court as a party to abide any order which
the court may make. I will go a step or two further with
that case, to show how, notwithstanding the opinion that
was delivered by the Chief Justice, the court came to a
point in which they would not take another step.
When the subpoena was received by the President, M.r.
Jefferson, he did not give to it any notice. He did not even
make any return to the court, nor any excuse to the court.
ie simply wrote a letter to the district attorney, in which
he stated, that he could not conceive how it was that, under
such circumstances, the court should order him to go there
by subpoena; that he would not go; that he did not propose to
go; but he said to the district attorney that there was no
difficulty in obtaining the paper in the proper way. But he
would pay no respect to the subpoena. Thereupon Colonel
Burr himself moved for compulsory process to compel the
President to come. Of course that was legitimate. If the
court, in saying that the President was amenable to subpcena, was right, the court was bound, at the instance of the
defendant, to follow it up by process of attachment to compel obedience to its lawful order. At that point, however,
the court hesitated, and not a step further was taken toward
enforcing the doctrine laid down by the Chief Justice. It
then became quite too apparent that a very great error had
been committed. I say a very great error, with the greatest
submission to the great Chief Justice, who, on circuit, at
nisi pius, suddenly, on a motion of this kind, had ,held that
thePresident of the United States was liable to the subpoena
of any court as President.
Is not the proposition subversive of all ideas of what
government is and of the purposes for which a President is
put in the executive chair, that whenever there are controversies between individuals anywhere in the United Statcs,
and the President even in his natural capacity happens to
know anything about them, wherever the process of the
court can extend to him territorially, he is bound to quit

484

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHN!SON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against filing.

his office, to leave his place at the head of the government,
and to attend to the business of the individual citizen; to
reinit his duties over the whole and attend to his duties to
the individual ? I know in that case of Burr an attempt was
made to distinguish between the President and a king or
queen of Great Britain, for it was acknowledged by every
one that there was no authority in England for a suit or a
subpoena or any command to the head of the government
to appear before any court. But it is said that that depended
upon the divinity which hedged a king or crowned head;
that with us our President had no such immunity; that he
could do wrong, although the King of England could not do
wrong; that he was liable to punishment, liable under certain circumstances to process, and they attempted to make
a distinction between the two. Undoubtedly so far as the
mere individual man is concerned there is a great difference
between the President and a king; but so far as the office is
concerned-so far as his position as the great executive officer of this government is concerned-I deny that there is a
particle less dignity belonging to the office of President than
to the office of King of Great Britain or of any other potentate on the face of the earth. He represents the majesty of
the law and of the people as fully and as essentially, and
with the same dignity, as does any absolute monarch or the
head of any independent government in the world.
It is not upon any peculiar immunity that the individual
has who happens to be President; upon any idea that he
cannot do wrong; upon any idea that there is any particular
sanctity belonging to him as an individual, as is the case
with one who has royal blood in his veins; but it is on account of the office that he holds that I say the President of
the United States is above the process of any court or the
jurisdiction of any court to bring him to account as President. There is only one court or quasi court that he can be
called upon to answer to for any dereliction of duty, for
doing anything that is contrary to law or failing to do anything which is according to law, and that is not this tribunal
but one that sits in another chamber of this Capitol. There

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF

iISSISSlPPI

V. JOHNSON.

485

Argument against filing.

he can be called and tried and punished, but not here while
he is President; and after he has been dealt with in that
chamber and stripped of the robes of office, and he no longer
stands as the representative of the government, then for any
wrong he has done to any individual, for any murder or any
crime of any sort which he has committed as President, then
and not till then can he be subjected to the jurisdiction of
the courts. Then it is the individual they deal with, not the
representative of the people.
But what would be the consequences if the court should
issue this subpoena against the President now, and like Mr.
Jefferson he should decline to obey it, not out of any disrespect to this court, but out of respect to the high office which
he fills? If the court should entertain this case, and direct its subpcena to issue to the President, what will come
if, as is inevitable, he will not obey it? No man in the nation entertains a higher respect for this court than he does,
but as the custodian of his office, as the person there representing the nation, it is not for Andrew Johnson to speak;
it is for the President. Ie has no particular personal dignity of his own to take care of, but he is bound to take care
of the dignity, the rights, and the prerogatives that belong
to him as President. The one he may lay down and be as
humble as he pleases; the other he cannot lay down. What
then will be the consequences? I may suggest them.
If, under such advice and such action as is inevitable if
this subpoena is issued, the, President declines to obey it,
treats the writ issued to him as one which he cannot obey
and dare not obey, what next must your honors be called
upon to do? Precisely what the Chief Justice was called
upon to do in the case of Burr. The gentlemen at once
move in this court for an attachment against the President
for disobedience of a lawful order of this court that he shall
attend and answer this complaint. - If the President is liable
to the subpoena, as the gentlemen say he is, then he is liable
to answer as defendant, and when the subpoena is served
upon him, whether he comes or not, if it is a lawful subpcena, he is within the jurisdiction of this court; he 'is a

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. J0H7ISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against filing.

party here, and bound therefore by every act and every order which the court makes in this case. What, then, is the
order, what is the relief, what is the judgment that the opposite counsel require? It is that he, as President, shall be
enjoined from performing and executing two acts of Congress? If, when the President is here by a service of the
subpc-na, the court proceed in the case, and find it a case in
which they are ready to order an injunctioii to issue to the
President to command him not to execute those laws, and
notwithstanding, the President goes on to execute them,
what follows? That the court must now sustain its own
dignity, for the court has a dignity and a power to be observed as well as the President. The next step here, then,
is to move for an attachment, or a rule on the President, to
show cause why an attachment should not issue against
him; for what? For a contempt of this court; that whereas
the court ordered him to abstain from proceeding further in
the execution of these laws, in defiance of that order the
President has gone on to do some acts in execution of the
laws. He is therefore brought here by what kind of process? By process quasi criminal; by process of attachment
to answer for a contempt of the court. Now we have subpoenas no longer; now we have process compelling his attendance, which goes to the marshal, and when we come to
the proper point, process that goes to the marshal commanding him to bring the person of the President before
this court to answer to this court for a disobedience of its
process.
Now let us suppose the case to go so far as it must go in
order to give the relief that is claimed; what sort of a spectacle have we? One great department of this government
has arraigned another, and the executive department of the
government, represented by the President,' brought before
the judicial department-for what purpose? To be punished
criminally; for if he stands out and makes no apology to the
court, and does not purge himself of the contempt in failing
to obey its orders, the court is bound to put him in jail or to
fine him; ordinarily to put him in jail, and, if he still per-

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI v. JOiiHNSON.

487

Argument against filing.

sists, to keep him in jail without any remedy, for in cases of
commitment for contempt no habeas corpus, as every one
knows, can ever reach the prisoner. No other court can release the President from this imprisonment, by habeas corpus
or otherwise. Hle is there a close prisoner of this court, and
to remain there until he dies, uinless he performs the orders
of the court.
What then? The President deposed; the President made
incapable of performing the duties of his office! Certainly
a jail, or a dungeon it may be, is not a fit place to perform
the duties and functions of President. You have made the
President incapable of performing his duties. What is the
effect of that? 'You have removed the President, for that is
one of the conditions in which the President's office becomes vacant, that he is incapable of performing his duties.
You have done it more effectually than by impeachment, for
an impeachment does not deprive him of liberty; an impeachment sets him at large, and simply takes from him his
official character; but the order of this court under these
circumstances takes him as President and puts him in jail,
and keeps him there until he performs what this court orders him to perform. That vindicates, it is true, the right
of the State of Mississippi, or it may vindicate the right of
any individual who ha6 some claim to have an injunction
against the President; but as to all the rest of us! as to the
people, as to the government itself, what becomes of them
under these circumstances and the exercise of that power?
What becomes of the public safety, the salus populi, the supreme law of all laws, that this court, a co-ordinate branch
of the government, bound to respect the other branches of
the government, not to interfere with their duties or their
privileges or their rights-that this court has in effect taken,
destroyed, annihilated the President who is put there by the
people? You leave the government without a head; you
leave the office vacant, and the people must go about to get
another President to perform these functions and these
duties. In the meantime, until that is done, everything is
at large, and there is not a law of the United States that can

488

STATE OF iMISSISSIPPI V. JoHNSON.

[Sup.

at.

Argument against filing.

be executed, not an officer that can be appointed or an officer that can be removed. There is no one left to proclaim
insurrection, if that shall happen. There is no one left to
perform all the duties which for the safety of this people as
a nation are reposed in the President. To correct a particular evil, to guard a particular individual or a particular State
against the acts of the President, there is no way, according
to the gentlemen, but to depose that President by a proceeding like this, and, for the correction of this lesser evil, to
produce that enormous evil which affects not merely the
State of Mississippi, but every other State of the Union and
every individual.
Is this the way to treat the head of the government?
Take the common case of an ambassador who comes here
from another government, who is not the chief of that government, neither a king nor the president of any republic,
but who simply comes here to represent a foreign government. Can you sue him? Can you make him liable? Can
you bring him within the jurisdiction of this court, or any
other court, unless he chooses to come here voluntarily as a
plaintiff? Not at all. His person is sacred. Why? Not on
account of any natural dignity that pertains to him, but because he represents a sovereign; he is sent here by the chief
executive of some other state-it may be a king, it may be
a president-and as representing that foreign sovereign he
is no more liable to suit here than the foreign sovereign
himself would be, no matter what mischief he may do. I
say he is not only not liable to civil suit, but not to criminal
proceedings.

If the representative of some foreign sover-

eign, should in a moment of passion kill some one in this
District, some one of our own citizens, absolutely murder
him-a thing most improbable indeed-but suppose the
case-is there a court in the United States that could try
that representative for -that offence? I am putting the
strongest cas6 possible. There is a great mischief, to be
sure; the representative has done a great injury; he has

taken life; but in that extremest of all cases you cannot
correct that great mischief and enormous wrong by corn-

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF

IISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

Argument against filing.

mitting the greater wrong of making him, the representative of another government, liable here to suit or prosecution. All you can do is to remand him and send him out
of the country, and to require his own government to punish
him for the offence he has committed. You have no jurisdiction over him.
The counsel, then, are altogether wrong in their argument
that wherever there is a right there must be a remedywherever there is a wrong done there must be a means of
righting that wrong. Not so; at any rate not in this case.
In support of their right to file this bill, opposite counsel
refer to some authorities. They are cases that have been
before this court, of proceedings not against the President,
but against certain high officers of the government who have
been brought in the court or made amenable to the process
of the court.
First, let me say that there is a clear diversity between
those cases and this. The various heads of departments
who have been sued here, such as in the case of Mr. Kendall and M1r. Guthrie, and M\r. Mfadison while he was Secretary of State, are at last but subordinates. They are agents
to carry out the executive power, but they are not the depositaries of the executive power. They have functions to
perform, and although they are agents, they are public
agents, and we must take care to see our way clearly, when
we bring them into court for official action or official misconduct, how it should be done, whether at the instance of a
private individual or otherwise. The only cases in which
the court has maintained jurisdiction over the heads of departments in order to compel them to execute laws are cases
of 'ia)danws-to compel a Postmaster-General, a Secretary
of State, or a Secretary of the Treasury to do something;
and the court has always been strict in maintaining that
jurisdiction; cautious at every step. That jurisdiction has
been exercised again and again, but always with this limitation, thr.t the thing required to be done is a simple ministerial
act required to be done by the officer in virtue of some specific law. It is a thing as to which he has no discretion

STATr, OF

MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against filing.

whatever; in which not the President merely but some law
requires him to do some one thing. He is commanded by
the legislative department to do some one thing in which a
citizen is interested and he refuses to do it. The court have
said in such a matter as that, being purely ministerial and
directed by law, we will require that officer to do that thing.
They have never said as to the President that where he is
directed by law to do some single thing, although ministerial in its character merely, involving no discretion or the
performance of any particular duty except the duty to obey
that particular statute, that a mandamuns could go against
him, in such a case. The counsel can find no such dictum
even. In the case of a mere subordinate officer the court
may very well enforce its authority, even to the point of
imprisoning him for contempt; because, taking a Secretary
from the head of his department, or an Attorney-General
from his office, or a Postmaster-General from his department, does not stop the government, does not interfere with
any great branch or department of the government. The
President is there to make another Attorney-General, or another Postmaster-General, or another Secretary. That does
not interfere with the public interests. The government
goes on just as well whether one officer is there or another
officer is put in his place. But, notwithstanding that, as I
have said, this court have exercised that sort of jurisdiction
very carefully. I have not, however, found a case like this,
a case in which a suit has been entertained by this court
against an executive officer as such officer, or an injunction
allowed against him, against the performance of his duty as
an executive officer.
The English courts have set their faces against such suits.
JIlaebeath v. ialdimand,*was an action brought against Haldimand for certain things done by him in his capacity of
Governor of Quebec. The case was argued in bane, in 1786,
and Lord Mansfield, Mr. Justice Ashurst, Mr. Justice Willes, and Mr. Justice Buller held that he was not personally
liable for bills of exchange drawn by him as Governor.
* 1 Durnford and East, 172.

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.
Argument against filing.

The case of Gidley v. Lord Palnerston*establishes the doctrine that on principles of public policy an action will not lie
against persons acting in a public character and situation.
The view I maintain has been expressed in this court, so
far as the President is concerned. In Kendall v. United
Slates,t the court say:
"The executive power is vested in the President. As far as
his power is derived from the Constitution he is beyond the
reach of any other department, except in the mode prescribed
by the Constitution,-through the impeaching power."
There it is. As President, he is beyond the control of
any other department, except through the impeaching power.
For what is he reached by the impeaching power? The
highest crimes and misdemeanors. Therefore, according to
this, for the highest crimes and misdemeanors, he is, as
President, above the power of any court or any other department of the government. Only in that other chamber can
you arraign him for anything done or omitted to be done
while he is President.
The State of Ohio, ex rel., v. Chase, Governor, is relied on
by the other side; but that was a case where the Governor
was directed by law to issue a certain proclamation upon
the existence of certain facts which were admitted to exist;
and it was held that, as the thing to be done did not necessarily appertain to the office of Governor, but was simply a
duty imposed by a statute, the court might issue a mandamus
to compel the performance of the ministerial act prescribed
by statute.
So far as this bill seeks to make the President a party, I
have said from the first that it was scandalous. I mean, of
course, in legal language; that is to say, a suit not fit to be
brought, and which no court in the United States can sustain. Therefore it is that as amicus curim, or as law officer
next the President, I have felt bound, at the first motion
* 3 Broderip and Bingham, 275.

t 12 Peters, 610.

492

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

IReply in favor of filing.

made to file this bill, to attempt to keep so scandalous a
thing from the records of this court.
It is with the approbation, advice, and instruction of the
President that I appear here to make this objection. I
should have felt bound to make it on my own motion, as
the law officer of the government. But although counsel,
in their bill, have said that the President has vetoed these
acts of Congress as unconstitutional, I must say, in defence
of the President, this, that when the President did that he

did everything he intended to do in opposition to these laws.
From the moment they were passed over his veto there was
but one duty in his estimation resting upon him, and that
was faithfully to carry out and execute these laws. He has
instructed me to say that in making this objection, it is not
for the purpose of escaping from any responsibility either to
perform or to refuse to perform.
Mir. R. T' Walker, in reply:
The main question is whether a bill to restrain the Presi-

dent of the United States by injunction issuing from this
court from carrying into effect an act of Congress forbidden
by the Constitution, and therefore unconstitutional and void,

being a proceeding to enjoin the President from the performance of a mere ministerial duty (for by his veto he admits it to be a mere ministerial duty which he is compelled
to do), is, in fact, a proceeding against the government of
the United States, and whether such a bill can be entertained by this tribunal.
This is not a suit against the President of the United
States only. giving the name of no individual, at all, as
was the suit of the Governor of Georgia v. Juan Hlladrazo,
known to the Attorney-General. That case was different,
and the court well remarked that no process could issue unless

against the State, because there was no individual named
against whom any process could issue. But the President
of the United States is not the government of the United
States. The President, in a suit like this, does not represent all the departments of the government. The distine-

Dec. 1866.]

STATE oF

lIssIssIPPI v. JoHNsoN.

493

Reply in favor of filing.

tion is drawn in the clearest manner by Chief Justice Marshall, in the great case of Burr.* le there said:
"The single reservation alluded to is the case of the King.
Although he may, perhaps, give testimony, it. is said to be incompatible with his dignity to appear under the process of the
court. Of the many points of difference which exist between
the first magistrate of England and the first magistrate of the
United States, in respect to the personal dignity conferred on
them by the constitutions of their respective nations, the court
will only select and mention two. It is a principle of the English constitution that the King can do no wrong, that no blame
can be imputed to him, that he cannot bd named in debate.
"By the Constitution of the United States, the President, as
well as any other officer of the government, may be impeached,
and may be removed from office on high crimes and misdemeanors.
"By the Constitution of Great Britain the crown is hereditary, and the monarch can never be a subject.
"By that of the United States, the President is elected from
the mass of the people, and on the expiration of the time for
which he is elected returns to the mass of the people again.
"l How essentially this difference of circumstances must vary
the policy of the laws of the two countries in reference to the
personal dignity of the Executive Chief will be perceived by
every person. In this respect the first magistrate of the Union
may more properly be likened to the first magistrate of a State,
at any rate, under the former Confederation, and it is not known
ever to have been doubted but that the chief magistrate of a
State might be served with a subpcena ad testificandurn.
"If in any court of the United States it has ever been decided
that a subpcena cannot issue to the President, that decision is
unknown to this court."
In that case the awful consequences, which have been referred to so eloquently by my learned brother, of attaching
the President of the United States, and compelling him by
process of attachment to obey the subpoena, were all argued
* Trial of Aaron Burr, by Combs, p. 45.

494

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JoHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply in favor of filing.

before Chief Justice Marshall gave this opinion. It was
owing to entirely extraneous causes that it became unnecessary to carry it out; but this opinion was never recalled, nor
changed, nor modified in any respect whatsoever. Of course,
if the court had a right to issue a subpona duces tecum to the
President of the United States in the same manner as to any
other person, it would follow, as a necessary consequence,
that the court had a right to follow out a disobedience to
that subpona by the process of attachment for contempt.
The Attorney-General has said that if this court, in the
performance of its duty, should proceed under its oath of
office to defend the Constitution of the United States from
violation, even by the hands of the President, the President
could not obey its order, and that there would be brought
on a direct and fearful conflict between the President and
this great tribunal.
Butwho has contended more strongly and with more ability than this very President of the United States, in various
veto messages, for the final character of the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States in all cases involving a
construction of its Constitution ? Who has urged, from time
to time, with more ability and force than this President the
great doctrine that all the departments of this government
are sworn to support the Constitution of the United States,

and that this great tribunal, this arbiter, was created by the
Constitution to avoid just such a result as the AttorneyGeneral has referred to; was created for the peaceful and
final and ultimate decision of all such questions as this?
What! The President of the United States not obey the
mandate of this court? If he does not, he disobeys the mandate of the Constitution.
It 'is said that the President merely follows the example
of Thomas Jefferson in refusing to obey the subpcna. But
the matter in the case of President Jefferson was not carried
out.

It was not necessary to carry it out.

What the court

would have done if the necessity had existed may be inferred
from the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall. Moreover, I
believe that Mr. Jefferson used to boast that he was no law-

Dec. 1866.]

STATE

6F MISSISSIPPI

V. JOHNSON.

495

Reply in favor of filing.

yer; we know that he had no very favorable opinion of lawyers, or of judges, and especially no very favorable opinion
of the Supreme Court of the United States, or of the great
man who presided there-Chief Justice -Marshall-during
the period when he, lr. Jeffirson, was President of the
United States. Upon a judicial question like this I shall
not attempt to compare the opinion of President Jefferson
with that of Chief Justice Mfarshall and the Supreme Court
of the United States, and of Madison, as shown in the recent
publication of the fourth volume of his writings. These
carry out the idea set forth by Hamilton, and Mfadison, and
Jay, in the Federalist, at the very time when the Constitution was pending for its ratification before the people, and set
forth plainly before them that the Constitution had created
one great tribunal, the Supreme Court, for the peaceful decision of all questions of constitutional law. What can be
stronger than the language of MNr. MIadison, that where two
laws conflict with each other, the tribunal which is to expound and interpret the law is to decide which shall prevail?
that when you take up an act of Congress on one page, and
take up the Constitution on the other, if the act of Congress
is in conflict with the prohibitions of the Constitution, that
instrument declares it to be utterly null and void? Such was
the opinion of Jay, and Madison, and Hamilton. Such was
the sense in which the people of all the States understood
the Constitution when it was framed, as shown by the debates. Such was the opinion of the first Congress, composed
of many of the men who had framed the Constitution, who in
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act gav final jurisdiction to this court in all cases involving the construction
of the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States,
even on appeal from the highest judicial State tribunals.
If there is anything that is definitely settled for threefourths of a century by repeated and manifest decisions of
this court, the opinions of the framers of the Constitution,
and the great statesmen of the day, it is that this is the tribunal and the only tribunal created by the Constitution
whose decision is -inal and conclusive upon the interpreta-

496

STATE OF MississiPPI v. JORN1soN.

[Sup. Ct,

Reply in favor of filing.

tion of the Constitution. I think that this court will answer
the statement in which the Attorney-General has lapsed
as to the inevitable disobedience of the President to a writ
of this court, as it answered a menace when the Legislature
and High Court of Error and Appeals of Virginia declared
that they would not obey the final mandate of the Supreme
Court of the United States. The answer which was given to
that menace by the court, through Chief Justice Marshall,
its organ, in delivering its opinion, is found in the case of
Cohen v. Virginia.*
"The judiciary cannot, as the legislature may, avoid a measure because it approaches the confines of the Constitution. We
cannot pass it by because it is doubtful. With whatever doubts
or whatever difficulties a case may be attended we must decide
it if it be brought before us. We have no more right to decline
the exercise of jurisdiction which is given than to usurp that
which is not given. The one or the other would be treason to
the Constitution."
Such was the answer given by this court, in that day, to
the Legislature of Virginia, then all-powerful, and to the
unanimous resolve of the High Court of Errors and Appeals
of that great State, then composed of distinguished jurists
arid statesmen; that for this court to refuse to take jurisdiction in a case given them by the fundamental law, whatever
the consequences might be, whoever might menace disobedience to the mandate of the court, would be treason to the
Constitution. So I say here, that if this court shall issue its
mandate, declaring an act of Congress to be unconstitutional,
and restraining the President or Secretary of War, or any
of the officers of the army or navy, from the execution of
that act-whoever shall resist that mandate of the court by
force will be guilty of treason.
[Mfr. Walker next commented in detail upon the cases
which had been cited, arguing from them that no officer is
above the law, but that all are amenable and responsible
to it.]
* 6 Wheaton, 264.

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF

IISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

497

Opinion of the court.

The Attorney-General has shown a picture of the calamities which would follow, if the President of the United States
should disobey the mandate of this court. Let us look at
the calamities that might follow, on the other hand, if this
court declines to exercise the power which I think is granted
by the Constitution, and permits these military laws to go
into effect. What then? According to the President's own
opinion, as expressed in his veto messages, the Constitution
of the United States is, by the Reconstruction Acts, subverted and overthrown, and a military despotism is erected
upon its ruins. Ten States are to be expelled from the
Union; ten millions of people are to be deprived of all the
benefits of the Constitution; deprived of the right of trial
by jury. These ten States are cut up into five military districts; people are to be tried outside of their States for
offences unknown and undefined, merely at the will of a
military officer; deprived of the right of trial by jury; all this
in time of profound peace, when Congress itself, speaking,
as it has done in several acts, of "States lately in rebellion,"
admits that there is no rebellion in the land; deprived of
their iights and privileges of American citizens. So far as
constitutional liberty is concerned, they might as well be
*living under a Czar or a Sultan, upon the banks of the Bosphorus or the Neva, as in this free country. Life, liberty,
and property may be taken from them without due process
of law.
The CEIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion was made, some days since, in behalf of the
State of Mississippi, for leave to file a bill in the name of
the State, praying this court perpetually to enjoin and restrain Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, and
E. 0. C. Ord, general commanding in the District of Mississippi and Arkansas, from executing, or in any manner carrying out, certain acts of Congress therein named.
The acts referred to are those of March 2d and March 23d,
1867, commonly known as the Reconstruction Acts.
The Attorney-General objected tothe leave asked for, upon
VOL. IV.

82

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the ground that no bill which makes a President a defendant, and seeks an injunction against him to restrain the performance of his duties as President, should be allowed to
be filed in this court.
This point has been fully argued, and we will now dispose of it.
We shall limit our inquiry to the question presented by
the objection, without expressing any opinion on the broader
issues discussed in argument, whether, in any case, the President of the United States may be required, by the process
of this court, to perform a purely ministerial act under a
positive law, or may be held amenable, in any case, otherwise than by impeachment for crime.
The single point which requires consideration is this:
Can the President be restrained by injunction from carrying
into effect an act of Congress alleged to be unconstitutional?
It is assumed by the counsel for the State of Mississippi,
that the President, in the execution of the Reconstruction
Acts, is requi.red to perform a mere ministerial duty. In
this -assumption there is, we think, a confounding of the
terms ministerial and executive, which are by no means
equivalent in import.
A ministerial duty, the performance of which may, in
proper cases, be required of the head of a department, by
judicial process, is one in respect to which nothing is left
to discretion. It is a simple, definite duty, arising under
conditions admitted or proved to exist, and imposed by law.
The case of .3arbury v. Madison, Secretary of State,* furnishes an illustration. A citizen had been nominated, confirmed, and appointed a justice of the peace for the District
of Columbia, and his commission had been made out, signed,
and sealed. Nothing remained to be done except delivery,
and the duty of delivery was imposed by law on the Secretary of State. It was held that the performance of this duty
might be enforced by mandamus issuing from a court having
jurisdiction.
1 Cranch, 137.

Dec. 1866.]

STATE OF MISSISSnPPI v. JOHNSON.

499

Opinion of the court.

So, in the case of Kendal, Postmaster-General, v. Stockton .
Stokes,* an act of Congress had directed the PostmasterGeneral to credit Stockton -&Stokes with such sums as the
Solicitor of the Treasury should find due to them; and that
officer refused to credit them with certain sums, so found
due. It was held that the crediting of this money was a
mere ministerial duty, the performance of which might be
judicially enforced.
In each of these cases nothing was left to discretion.
There was no room for the exercise of judgment. The law
required the performance of a single specific act; and that
performance, it was held, might be required by mandamus.
Very different is the duty of the President in the exercise
of the power to see that the laws are faithfully executed, and
among these laws the acts named in the bill. By the first
of these acts he is required to assign generals to command
in the several military districts, and to detail sufficient military force to enable such officers to discharge their duties
under the law. By the supplementary act, other duties are
imposed on the several commanding generals, and these
duties must necessarily be performed under the supervision
of the President as commander-in-chief. The duty thus
imposed on the President is in no just sense ministerial. It
is purely executive and political.
An attempt on the part of the judicial department of the
government to enforce the performance of such duties by the
President might be justly characterized, in the language of
Chief Justice M1-arshal, as "an absurd and excessive extravagance."
It is true that in the instance before us the interposition
of the court is not sought to enforce action by the Executive
under constitutional legislation, but to restrain such action
under legislation alleged to be unconstitutional. But we
are unable to perceive that this circumstance takes the case
out of the general principles which forbid judicial interference with the exercise of Executive discretion.
* 12 Peters, 527.

STATE OF MISSISSIPPI V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was admitted in the argument that the application now
made to us is without a precedent; and this is of much
weight against it.
Had it been supposed at the bar that this court would, in
any case, interpose, by injunction, to prevent the execution
of an unconstitutional act of Congress, it can hardly be
doubted that applications with that object would have been
heretofore addressed to it.
Occasions have not been wanting.
The constitutionality of the act for the annexation of"
Texas was vehemently denied. It made important and permanent changes in the relative importance of States and
sections, and was by many supposed to be pregnant with
disastrous results to large interests in particular States. But
no one seems to have thought of an application for an injunction against the execution of the act by the President.
And yet it is difficult to perceive upon what principle the
application now before us can be allowed and similar applications in that and other cases have been denied.
The fact that no such application was ever before made in
any case indicates the general judgment of the profession
that no such application should be entertained.
It will hardly be contended that Congress can interpose,
in any case, to restrain the enactment of an unconstitutional
law; and yet how can the right to judicial interposition to
prevent such an enactment, when the purpose is evident and
the execution of that purpose certain, be distinguished, in
principle, from the right to such interposition against the
execution of such a law by the President?
The Congress is the legislative department of the government; the President is the executive department. Neither
can be restrained in its action by the judicial department;
though the acts of both, when performed, are, in proper
cases, subject to its cognizance.
The impropriety of such interference will be clearly seen
upon consideration of its possible consequences.
Suppose the bill filed and the injunction prayed for allowed. If the President refuse obedience, it is needless to

Dec. 1866.]

STATE oF MISSISSIPPI'v. JOHNSON.

501

Opinion of the court.

observe that the court is without power to enforce its process. If, on the other hand, the President complies with
the order of the court and refuses to execute the acts of
Congress, is it not clear that a collision may occur between
the executive and legislative departments of the government? May not the House of Riepresentatives impeach the
President for such refusal? And in that case could this
court interfere, in behalf of the President, thus endangered
by compliance with its mandate, and restrain by injunction
the Senate of the United States from sitting as a court of
impeachment? Would the strange spectacle be offered to
the public world of an attempt by this court to arrest proceedings in that court?
These questions answer themselves.
It is true that a State may file an original bill in this
court. And it may be true, in some cases, that such a bill
may be filed against the United States. But we are fully
satisfied that this court has no jurisdiction of a bill to enjoin
the President in the performance of his official duties; and
that no such bill ought to be received by us.
It has been suggested that the bill contains a prayer that,
if the relief sought cannot'be had against Andrew Johnson,
as President, it may be granted against Andrew Johnson as
a citizen of Tennessee. But it is plain that relief as against
the execution of an act of Congress by Andrew Johnson, is
relief against its execution by the President. A bill praying
an injunction against the execution of an act of Congress by
the incumbent of the presidential office cannot be received,
whether it describes him as President or as a citizen of a
State.
The motion for leave to file the bill is, therefore,
DENIED.

