RAILROAD COMPANY V. LINDSAY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

As these principles require a reversal of the case, it is not
deemed necessary to notice the other exceptions, which are
unimportant, and may not arise on a new trial.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. LINDSAY.

1. The article 3499 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which prescribes that
"actions for the payment of freight of ships and other vessels are prescribed by one year," does not apply to a case where the plaintiffs were
shipbrokers only and not shipowners, and where the contract was not
one of affreightment.
2. A demand cannot be regarded as an open account where there is a contract which is the foundation of the claim, and which, though not fulfilled according to its letter, either as to the time or place of delivery,
yet with the qualifications which the law under such circumstances imposes, determines the respective liabilities of the parties.
3. Where none of the evidence offered by a plaintiff is objected to below,
and no exception taken to the findings of the court there, objection cannot ba made in this court.
4. An allegation of variance between the averments of a petition and the
findings of the court, where there is no allegation that the findings were
unwarranted by the proofs, or that the judgment does not conform to
the law and justice of the case as presented by the findings, will not be
sustained.
5. Such case comes within the thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act,
curing imperfections, defects, or want of form in the pleadings or course
of proceedings, except such are specially demurred to.
LINDSAY & Co., ship-brokers, of London, filed their petition
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
in which-alleging a written contract between themselves
and the New Orleans, &c., Railroad Company, the company
bound itself to pay them "freights," at the rate of 25s. per
ton, "in consideration of freightage to be furnished to Algiers, opposite New Orleans, for certain iron rails," &c.they averred that, in pursuance of the aforesaid contract,
they did furnish freightage for several thousand tons of such
rails, from Wales to Louisiana, and that the balance of the
freight upon the rails due them was $18,000, &c.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD ComPANY v. LINDSAY.

651

Stiatement of the case.

The defendants denied that the contract had been performed; claimed damages by way of "re-convention," and
"pleaded the prescription of one year and three years;"
that is to say, set up, in argument, the bar of limitation of
one year, under article 3499 of the. Civil Code, which prescribes, that actions "for the payment of the freight of ships
and other vessels are prescribed by one year;" and the limitation of three years, to which an act of the Louisiana legislature limits actions upon open accounts.
The court found, on a submission of the case to them,
in accordance with the Louisiana practice, that a large
portion of the rails had not been delivered within the time
stipulated for; and that of these a portion had been sent,
not to Algiers but to New Orleans, for the cost of removing
which to iNew Orleans the plaintiffs were entitled to re-coup;
that the time within which the freightage was to be furnished
bad been extended and limited by a subsequent agreement
to a date fixed; that the railroad company refused to receive
any rails delivered after that date; that the manufacturers
resumed possession of these; that the company had not
proved any special damage as resulting from the delay mentioned, and that this delay had been owing to the acts of
Lindsay & Co., who had found, during the Crimean war, a
more profitable employment for the ships.
The court declared that the contract was not a contract
for the payment of the freight of ships and other vessels,
within article 3499 of the Civil Code set up; and overruling
also the prescription of three years given by statute for
open accounts, gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff below "for the whole amount of freightage, at the rates specified in the contract," allowing certain credits and the cost
of transferring to Algiers those rails which had been improperly landed at Iew Orleans.
The case came here on error, two errors being assigned.
1. That the court allowed the plaintiffs, Lindsay & Co., to
recover on an express agreement, when it was found that
they had never performed it.
2. That they had overruled the plea of prescription.

652

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LINDSAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson,for the plaintiff in error:
I. As to the special contract. It is a settled principle
of law that a party cannot recover upon a contract without proving performance of all conditions precedent, and

their performaace within the limited time, when a time is
limited.*
It is true, the court found that the defendants had not
proved "any special damage" by the delay; but under this
issue they were not bound to prove any damage, special or
other. To require it was to shift the burden of proof, and
relieve the plaintiffs from the exigencies of their own case.
We agree that in the civil, as well as at common law, a
recovery may be had, although there be a failure to prove
performance of the special contract, if the defendant have
derived any benefit in the premises. But such recovery can
only be ex equo ex bono, and undeniably must be founded on
some proof tending to show some service performed and
accepted, other than that stipulated in the contract, and what
the plaintiff reasonably deserved to have from the defCndant
therefor. The objection here is, that all such proof is absolutely wanting.

The court does not find that the defendant

below derived any benefit from the services of the plaintiff,
or what was the value of the service rendered; or that it was
of any value.
I. As to the statute of limitations, or prescription of one
year. The court proceeded, doubtless, on the ground.that the
special contract was i n the nature of a brokerage contract,
the plaintifs below being middle-men between the defendant
and the shipowners. But we have seen that the plaintiffs
wholly failed to make any case upon the special contract;
and if they could recover at all, must do so upon the implied
contract arising out of the service performed by them, to

wit: the transportation of the goods. In other words, it
was an implied contract for the freight of ships merely,
which arose directly between the parties to the suit, to the
exclusion of all third persons, and, consequently, was within
* Slater v. Emerson, 19 Howard, 229.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LINDSAY.

653

Argument for the ship-brokers.

the letter as well as the spirit of the article of the Civil Code
above cited.
.31r. Janin, contra:

I. As to the basis of the recovery.
The objection is really an allegation of variance. But it
is far too technical to prevail. No objection of this sort was
made below. It must be considered as waived.
HI. The plea of the prescription.
As to the one year, this case is different from that of a
ship-owner or captain contracting for the freight of goods
shipped by his vessel. The plaintiffs are ship-brokers; they
bound themselves to provide vessels to transport a large
quantity of iron from Wales to New Orleans, an obligation
which the iron-masters probably were not able or willing to
assume. It might not have been possible for the iron-masters or the agents of the defendants to find a ufficient number of vessels for this purpose. It may only have been possible for large ship-brokers to influence such a number of
vessels to undertake this business. So, no doubt, the defendants thought when they made the contract of 1853. It
was, in short, a legitimate commercial undertaking on the
part of plaintiffs, who thought that, owing to their position,
they could undertake such a duty with advantage, and-were
willing to run the risk of it.
This is different from the ease of a captain of a vessel who
agrees to take freight for one trip at a fixed price. A contract for a fixed freight, such as is contemplated by article
3499 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, is evidenced by a bill
of lading, and not by an agreement extending over years
and involving the employment of many vessels, like that
upon which this suit was brought. It is therefore clear that
that article is not applicable to the present case.
And it is equally clear that the act of the legislature of
Louisiana, which limits actions upon open accounts to three
years, is not applicable to this case.* The account was not
Acts of Louisiana of 1852, p. 90, Revised Statutes, 82.

654

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LINDSAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an open account, but an admitted account, which it was attempted to extinguish by a counter-claim.
In the case of the New Orleans Railroad Company v. Estlin,*
the defendant was sued for the unpaid balance of his subscription to the stock, and pleaded the prescription of three
years, contending that he was sued upon an open account.
The court said: "The defendant was not sued upon an open
account. The demand is based upon an express and written
contract." In Cooper v. Iarrison,t an agent was sued for the
price of land sold by him for his principal during a number
of years. The prescription of three years of actions upon
open accounts having been pleaded under the statute of
1852, the court said: "We are of opinion that the accounts
due by an agent for the selling of lands cannot be considered as embraced in the sense of the statute in the words
'open accounts.' And as they are not enumerated in the
articles in the -Civil Code on the prescription of one, three,
and five years, they are consequently subject to that of ten
years."
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were the defendants in the court
below. The plaintiffs in that court filed their petition, setting forth a contract between them and the defendants,
whereby the plaintiffs agreed to transport from Wales, and
deliver at Algiers, opposite to ew Orleans, certain railroad
iron for the defendants, and the defendants agreed to pay
them a stipulated compensation for such transportation and
delivery. The petition averred performance, and sought to
recover the specified compensation, less the amount which
the plaintiffs had already received. The defendants, by
their answer, denied performance, claimed damages by reconvention for non-performance, and pleaded the statute of
limitations.
The parties waived the intervention of a jury, and submitted the case to the court. The court found the facts
* 12 Annual Reports, 184.

t Id. 631.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LINDSAY.

, 655

Opinion of the court.

specially, and gave judgment for the plaintiffs below. The
findings of the court are set forth in the record, and are to
be regarded as a special verdict. The court found, among
other things, that the iron had not been delivered within
the contract time, but that it had been agreed between the
parties, in September, 1854, that the plaintiffs should allow
the defendants eight hundred pounds, on account of past
delays, and that the time for the further deliveries should
be extended to the first of December following; that the
defendants refused to receive the iron tendered or shipped
after the last-mentioned time, and that it was thereupon disposed of, with the assent of all concerned; that the defendants had not shown any damage arising from the delays;
that the delivery of the iron at New Orleans was a breach
of the contract, and that the defendants were entitled to recoup the cost of removing it to Algiers. Upon these principles, the amount to be recovered was computed, and judgment was rendered accordingly. The court was of opinion
that the contract was "not a contract for the payment of the
freight of ships and other vessels within the 3449th article
of the Civil Code," of the State, and overruled the defence
that the action was thereby barred. No bill of exceptions
was taken, and but a small part of the evidence appears in
the record.
Two errors are relied upon; one of them relates to the
statute of limitations. We think the ruling of the court
upon this subject was correct. The findings show that the
plaintifis were not ship-owners, and that their contract was
wholly different from one of affreightment' The article of
the Code relied upon had, therefore, no application to the
case. NTor can the demand be regarded as an open account.
The contract was the foundation of the claim, and though
not fulfilled according to its letter, either as to the time or
place of delivery, yet, with the qualifications which the law
under such circumstances imposes, it determined the respective liabilities of the parties. The plaintiffs could not
recover more than the contract price, and the recoupment

RAILROAD

o0MPANY

V. LINDSAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of.the defendants was governed by its requirements on the
part of the plaintiffs. Its provisions were elements in the
case, vital to the rights of both parties. By their light,
and the law arising upon the facts as developed in the
evidence, the court was to be gaided in coming to its conclusions.
The other error insisted upon is, that there i5 a fatal variance between the facts as found by-the court, and by the
case made by the plaintiffs' petition.
It does not appear that any of the evidence offered by the
plaintiffs in the court below was objected to by the defendants, nor does it appear that any exception was taken when
the court announced its findings, or subsequently, when the
judgment was entered.
It was in the power of the court to permit the petition to
be amended, and the proper amendments would doubtless
have been made if the objection had been stated. It is presented for the first time in this court. Under these circumstances, it must be held to have been waived by the plaintiffs
in error in the court below, and they are concluded by that
waiver in this court.
There is another ground upon which this exception must
be overruled. It is not alleged that the findings of the
court were unwarranted by the proofs, nor that the judgment does not conform to the law and justice of the case, as
the case is thus presented. The objection is purely technical. It lies wholly in the variance between the averments
of the petition and the facts as found by the court.
The thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
declares that thet courts of the United States, "respectively,
shall proceed and give judgment according as the right of
the cause and the matter in law shall appear unto them,
without regarding imperfections, defects, or want of form
in such writ, declaration, or other pleading, return process,
or judgment, or course of proceeding whatsoever, except
those only in case of demurrer, which the party demurring
shall specially set down and express, together with his demurrer as the cause thereof."

Dec. 1866.]

S

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

657

Syllabus.

The effect of this provision is decisive. N o case more
proper than the one before us, for its application, can be
presented.

The judgment below is
AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

IOBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
1. Parties Rtaving notice of the pendency of a suit in which they are directly
interested must exercise reasonable diligence in protecting their interests, and if instead of doing so they wilfully shut their eyes to the means
of knowledge which they know are at hand to enable them to act efficiently, they cannot subsequently turn round and evade the consequences which their own conduct and negligence have superinduced.
2. The term ,parties," as thus used, includes all who are directly interested
in the subject-matter, and who had a right to make defence, control the
proceedings, examine and cross-examine witnesses, and appeal from the
judgment.
3. Express notice to defend is not necessary in order to render a party liable
over for the amount of a judgment paid to an injured plaintiff. If the
party knew that the suit was pending, and could have defended it, he
is concluded by the judgment as to the amount of the damages. Chicago
City v. Robbins (2 Black, 418), affirmed.
4. Absence of objection by municipal officers to a person's building an area
in a public sidewalk, may infer a permission to build the area but cannot
infer a permission to leave it in a state dangerous to persons passing by.
5. A person building a storehouse on a street, who, in consequence of the
city's raising the carriage-way of the street, raises a sidewalk so as to
make it conform to the grade of the carriage-way-such person obtaining by his mode of raising the sidewalk, vaults and an area for the
benefit of his building-does not do a public work, nor relieve himself
from the penalty of making a nuisance if a nuisance is made by what
he does.
6. In a suit caused by a person's falling into an area in a public sidewalk,
a declaration charging that the defendant "dug, opened, and made,"
the area is sustained by proof that he formed it partially by excavation
and partially by raising walls.
7. 'Where work done on a public highway necessarily constitutes an obstruction or defect in the highway which renders it dangerous as a way for
travel and transportation unless properly guarded or shut out from
public use, in such case a principal for whom the work was done cannot
defeat the just claim of a niunicipal corporation which has had to pay
VOL.IV.

42

