Dec. 1866.]

VO'

HOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

585

Statement of the case.

which was supposed to underlie this case, is not before us
for consideration. If it were, as at present advised, we are
not prepared to say that the decision of the commissioner
was not correct.
The order of the court below, awarding the mandanus, is
reversed with costs, and it is ordered by this court that the
application of the relator be by that court
OVERRULED AND DISMISSED.

VON HOFFMAN

V.

CITY OF QUINOY.

1. Where a statute has authorized a municipal corporation to issue bonds
and to exercise the power of local taxation in order to pay them, and
persons have bought and paid value for bonds issued accordingly, the
power of taxation thus given is a contract within the meaning of-the
Constitution, aad cannot be withdrawn until the contract is satisfied.
The State and the corporation in such a case are equally bound.
2. A subsequently passed statute which repeals or restricts the power of
taxation so previously given, is, in so far as it affects bonds bought and
held under the circumstances mentioned, a nullity.
3. It is the duty of the corporation to impose and collect the taxes in all
respects as if the second statute had not been passed.
4. If it does not perform. this duty a mandamus will lie to compel it.

THIS case was brought up by a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois.
The relator filed his petition in that court, alleging, among
other things, as follows:
At the June Term, 1863, and before that time, he was
the owner and holder of certain coupons on interest notes
of the City of Quincy. They were past due and unpaid.
When issued and negotiated they were attached to certain
bonds made and delivered by that city, in payment for the
stock of the Northern Cross Railroad Company, and of the
Quincy and Toledo Railroad Company, subscribed for by

VON HOFFMAN V. CITY Op

Qurzcy.

[Sup. Gt

Statement of the case.

the city under and by virtue of certain acts of the legislature of Illinois, of the 17th of October, 1851, and 26th of
January, 1853, and the 31st of January, 1857. .By the provisions of these several acts the city was authorized to collect a
special annual tax upon the property, real and personal, therein,
sufficient to pay the annual interest upon any bonds thereafter issued by the city for railroadpurposes, pursuant to law. It was
required that the tax, when collected, should be set aside,
and held separate from the other portions of the city revenue, as a fund specially pledged for the payment of the annual interest upon the bonds aforesaid. It was to be applied
to this purpose, from time to time, as the interest should
become due, "and to no other purpose whatsoever."
The city failed to pay the coupons held by the relator for
a long time after they became due, and refused to levy the
tax necessary for that purpose. The relator sued the city
upon them in the court below, and at the June Term, 1863,
recovered a judgment for $22,206.69 and costs. An execution was issued and returned unsatisfied. The judgment
was unpaid. The city still neglected and refused to levy the
requisite tax. He therefore prayed that a writ of mandamus
be issued, commanding the city and its proper officers to
pay over to him any money in their hands otherwise unappropriated, not exceeding the amount of the judgment, interest, and costs; and, for want of such.funds, commanding
them to levy the special tax as required by the acts of the
legislature before referred to, sufficient to satisfy the judgment, interest, and costs, and to pay over to him the proceeds.
The city filed an answer. It alleged that there was no
money in its treasury wherewith to satisfy the judgment,
and as a reason why a peremptory writ of mandamus should
not issue, referred to an act of the legislature of Illinois, of
the 14th of February, 1863, which contains the following
provisions:
Sec. 4. The city council of said city shall have power to levy
and collect annually taxes on real and personal property within

Dec. 1866.]

VoN HoFEmAN v. CITY OF Quiicy.

537

Statement of the case.

the limits of said city, as follows: On real and personal property
within, or which may hereafter be within, portions of said city
lighted with gas, to meet the expenses thereof, not exceeding
twenty-eight cents on each one hundred dollars per annum on
the annual assessed value thereof. On all real and personal
property within the limits of said city, to meet the expenses of
obtaining school grounds, and erecting, repairing, and improving school buildings and school grounds, and providing teachers
and maintaining public schools in said city, and to be devoted
exclusively for such purposes, not exceeding twenty-five cents
on each one hundred dollars per annum on the annual assessed
value thereof: Provided, That no more than eighteen cents on each
one hundred dollars aforesaid shall be levied in any yearfor such
purposes without the concurrence of a majority of the votes of legal
voters of said city, to be cast at an election to be ordered by said
city council, and held to determine the rate per cent. so to be.
levied. On all real and personal property within the limits of
said city, to pay the debts and meet the general expenses of said
city, not exceeding fifty cents on each one hundred dollars per
annum on the annual assessed value thereof.
,Sec. 5. All laws and parts of laws, other than the pr6visions
hereof,' touching the levy or collection of taxes on property
within said city, except those regulating such collection, and
all laws conflicting herewith, are hereby repealed; but this act
shall not affect taxes of said city relating to streets or alleys, or
to licenses of whatever nature, nor any sources of revenue other
than taxes upon real or personal property, and which said act
remains in full force and unrepealed.
The answer averred that the full amount of the tax authorized by this act had been assessed, and was in the process of collection; that the power of the city in this respect
has been exhausted: "and that the said fifty cents on the
one hundred dollars, when collected, will not be sufficient to
pay "thecurrent expenses of the city for the year 1864, and
the debts of the said city." It further alleged that about the
.year 1851, the city, under the act of November 6th, 1849, issued b! tie Northern Cross Railroad Company bonds to the
amount of $100,000, and about the year 1854, under the
act of January 26th, 1853, other bonds to the amount of

VON

H-OFFMAN

V. CITY OF QUINCY.

Esup. t

Argument for the relator.

$100,000, and that about the year 1856, it made and delivered its other bonds to the amount of $100,000.

It al-

leged that the bonds last issued were wholly unauthorized,
but that they were subsequently ratified by the legislature
by the act of January 1st, f857. The relator's judgment, it
averred, was founded upon coupons belonging to bonds of
these three classes.
The relator demurred to the answer, and judgment was
given against him.
The principal question in this court was whether the act
of February 14th, impaired the obligation of a contract, and
was therefore void within the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution, which prohibits any State from passing such an act.

A second question was whether, if it did so, a mandamus
would lie against the city to compel it to levy a tax to pay
the debt.
Messrs. Melinnon and krriek, for the relator,plai .tiff in
error.
I. The general law of November 6th, 1849, and the several
supplemental acts of the legislature, under which were issued 'the coupons, or interest notes, on which the relator
obtained judgment, constitute a contract.
"A contract," says Chief Justice Marshall,* "is a compact between two or more persons, and is either executory
or executed. An executory contract is one in which a party
binds himself to do or not to do a particular thing. A contract executed is one in which the object of the contract is
performed, and this, says Blackstone, differs in nothing from
a grant. A contract executed, as well as one that is executory, contains obligations binding on the parties. A grant,
in- its own nature, amounts to an extinguishment of the
right of the grantor, and implies a contract not to reassert
that right."
This language was used in reference to a grant of land,
* Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 137.

Dec. 1866.]

VON HOFFMAN V.

CITY

OF QUINoY.

589

Argument for the relator.

by the governor of a State, under a legislative act. It is
simple aid unambiguous, and determines, in an unequivocal
manner, that the grant of a State is a contract within the
clause of the Constitution referred to, and implies an agreement not to resume rights granted. The doctrine applies to
an act of the legislature granting authority to a city to issue
its bonds in consideration of railroad stock, for its private
advantage and emolument, and provide for the payment
thereof by special taxation.
These acts of the legislature are grants of special powers
and privileges to the respondent, for its private advantage
and benefit, and not for municipal purposes, and when acted
upon, and bonds are issued and negotiated thereunder, the
acts fall completely within Judge Marshall's definition of
executed contracts.
Do the acts -possess, in any less degree, the elements of a
good contract than a charter granted by the supreme power
of a State, to any given number of persons, or corporators,
for religious or educational purposes? They do not; and
no one, at this day, would contend that such a charter is not
a contract within the meaning of the constitutionai provision
invoked.
In DartmouthCollege v. Woodward,* which was an action of
trover that grew out of an attempt on the part of the legislature of New Hampshire, as revolutionary successor of"
George III, to revoke a charter of this kind, Judge Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, and speaking
of the charter, holds the following language:
"This is plainly a contract to which the donors, the trustees,
and the crown-to whose right and obligations New Hampshire
succeeds-were the original parties. It is a contract made on
a valuable consideration. It is a contract for the security and
disposition of property. It is a contract on the faith of which
real and personal estate has been conveyed to the corporation.
Itis, then, a contract within the letter of the Constitution, and
within its spirit also."
*4

Wheaton, 643.

540

VON HOFFMAN V. OITY oF QuINcY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the relator.

The language of this case is applicable to the case at bar.
Here we have a grant of special powers by legislative enactment, authorizing the respondent, as a private company, to
purchas& or subscribe for stock in certain railroad companies,
and in payment therefor to issue its bonds, and provide for
the annual interest on and the ultimate redemption of the
bonds so issued, by the levy and collection of a special tax,
to be set aside and held separate and distinct, for that and
no other purpose whatever. -Under these powers and privileges, stock is subscribed for, bonds issued and negotiated,
pecuniary rights vested, and third parties, relying upon this
legislative grant, pay out their money, and bond fide become
the owners of the bonds and coupons so issued.
But, probably, the most accurate definition of a contract
by legislative grant, anywhere to be mef with, is that laid
down by Mr. Justice Washington, in this same case.
That learned judge, after stating that the question was
whether the charter granted to Dartmouth College, on the
13th of December, 1769, was to be considered as a contract,
then asks what is a contract? and, in answer, says:
"It may be defined to be a transaction between two or more
persons, in which each party comes under an obligation to the
other, and each reciprocally acquires a right to whatever is
promised by the other. The ingredients requisite to form a contract, are: parties, consent, and an obligation to be created and
dissolved."
Apply this definition to the case at bar.
In the first place,.there is a legislative grant of special
powers, enabling the respondent, as a private company, to
subscribe for stock in certain railroad companies, issue its
bonds for the amount of such stock, and to provide for payment of the bonds so issued, with interest thereon, by the
levy and collection of a special tax.
Following this grant of powers and privileges is the fact
of a transaction in strict pursuance thereof.
Here, then, is every ingredient which, according to the
definition, is requisite to form a contract-parties, consent,

Dec. 1866.]

VoN HOFr=AN

V.

CITY

OF QUINCY.

541

Argument for the relator.

and obligation-whereby each party reciprocally acquired a
right to what was promised by the other.
"A legislative act, conferring powers and privileges, is a
grant which, when accepted, amounts to an extinguishment
of the right of the grantor, and implies a contract not to reassert that right; and, thbrefore, the legislature is estopped
by its own grant."*
A State legislature may bind the State by contract in regard to the exercise of the power of taxation.t
The act of February 14th, 1863, attempting as it did to
revoke the power vested in the corporate officers to levy a
special tax to pay a debt incurred on the faith of the existence of the power, is not distinguishable from a law prohibiting the sheriff from selling on execution, except on certain
conditions.1
It follows'as a corollary that the act of February 14th,
1863, so far as the same repeals the several laws and parts
of laws under which the coupons, or interest notes, in question were issued, by prohibiting the Common Council of
Quincy to levy and collect the special tax which those laws
and parts of laws direct to be levied and collected as a means
of paying its bonds and interest coupons issued. thereunder,
as it did, is an act impairing the obligation of contracts.
H. The court below had power by mandamus to compel
the city to levy and collect a tax to pay the judgment obFletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 137; State of iNew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Id.
F'
166; Terret v. Taylor, Id. 43; Town of Paulet v. Clark, Id. 252; Sturgis v.
Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 122; Mechanics' Bank of Pennsylvania v. Smith,
6 Id. 131; Green v. Biddle, 8 Id. 1; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Howard, 311;
McCracken v. Hayward, 2 Id. 608; Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing, 3 Id. 707;
Planters' Bank v. Ewing, 6 Id. 319; Curran v. Arkansas, 15 Id. 304; Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 Id. 239; Curtis V. Butler
County, 24 Id. 446; Rice v..-ailroad Company, 1 Black, 373; People v.
Bond, 10 California, 571.
I McGee v. Mathis, supra, p. 143; The State of New Jersey v. Wilson, 7
Crahch, 164; Billings v. The Providence Bank, 4 -Peters, 514; Gordon V.
Appeal Tax Court, 3 Howard, 133; The F. & P. Railroad Co. v. The Louise
Railroad Co., 13 Id. 71; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 349.
: McCracken v. Hayward, 2 Howard, 71.

VON HOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the City.

tained against it for interest on its bonds issued under the
special authority abovementioned.*
Messrs. Cushing and Ewing, Jr., contra,for the CIy of Quincy,.
defendant in error:
Mandamus lies only where there is a clear legal right to
have a specific thing done by the public officer. And when
the legislature has inhibited a city from levying a tax. exceeding a certain limit, no court can compel it by mandamus
to override the legislative irnitation.t
The act of 1863, set up in the return, fixes the maximum
of taxation by the city, to meet certain municipal expenses,
and to pay the debts of the city, at fifty cents on the hundred
dollars. This tax has been duly levied, to the limit authorized, and, therefore, the city has failed to execute no power
of taxation. This act is clear and explicit, leaving no room
for construction. The purposes of taxation are named. The
intention of the act is free from question.
Does the act of 1863, set up in the return, "impair the
We think that it does not.
obligation of the contract?"
Legislative power and control- over the public revenue,
over the entire subject of taxation, is a fundamental element
of sovereignty which must ever remain with the State; a
political power to be exercised consistently with the public
interests, or necessities, and over which the courts have no
jurisdiction. No contract, binding or controlling the legislature as to the collection or appropriation, under revenue
laws, of future taxes, can, consistently with the sovereignty
of the State, exist. And by virtue of no contract, capable
of legal enforcement, can a vested interest be created in any
one in such unlevied and uncollected taxes.
As a general rule, any act may be repealed by the author*- The Board of Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 24 Howard,
376; Same case, 21 Id. 539; The Commonwealth v. Commissioners of Alleghany, 4 Wright's Pennsylvania, 343; The United States ex rel. Learned
v. :Mayor of Burlington, United States Circuit for Iowa, 2 American Law
Register, New Series, 394.
t People v. Burrows, 27 Barbour, 93; People v. Tremain, 29 Id. 98.

Dec. 1866.]

VoN HOFF31AN V. Cimy or Quicy.

548

Argument for the City.

ity that created it. There may, indeed, be legislative grants
of property, or of franchises, which, becoming vested rights
of property, assume the character of contracts; but such
rights of property.can never arise out of a delegation to
municipal corporations of the power to levy taxes; nor out
of a pledge of public faith.
The Dartmouth College case* states the doctrine as to what
are public or political corporations, and concedes plenary
power over them in the legislature. This court held the
college to be a private eleemosynary corporation, and hence,
under the Constitution, protected from legislative control.
In the separate opinions of Washington and Story, JJ.,
the rule is declared to be, that corporations for the government of communities, such as "towns, cities, and counties,"
being "publi c institutions," are always subject to State control, by regulating, enlarging, or limiting their powers according to the will of the legislature.
Nqow, the City of Quincy was created by the legislature
for the purposes of civil government alone-for public, not
private ends. The State was the only party to the charter.
No acceptance, by any one, of chartered privileges was essential to give it a political being, nor could the default of
individuals forfeit the charter. It is but an instrunlent of
government, exercising political power through the agency
of public officers only. Individuals may be interested in
having certain powers continued in or conferred upon the
city, by reason of being its creditors or otherwise; but they
are political powers, to be exercised only through public
officers, in which the individual can have no more a contract right than he could in the powers of any one of the
three departments of the State government, or of any
officer thereof. Although the State may empower a municipal corporation to issue bonds, and provide for future taxation of property within the municipality to pay them, and
bonds accordingly issue; this, in the sense of the Constitution
of the United States, creates no contract between the holder
* 4 Wheaton2 641.

VON HOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

[SpCt
[Slip.
Ct.

Argument for the City.

and the State, that the State will not exercise its political
authority over the subject of taxation therein.*
To be a contract within the meaning of the Constitution,
the right must be such that an action could be founded upon
it in a court of justice.
Numerous adjudged cases support our view. In EastHartford v. The Harford Bridge Company, in this court,t a municipal corporation had obtained from the legislature ferry
privileges, which were afterwards repealed. It was held that
there was no violation of a contract; that the State, having
the power to even abolish the corporation, could not confer
upon it rights which it could not take away; that all powers
conferred on it could be controlled or resumed by the legislature in virtue of its sovereignty, and that all grants to such
public corporations are made upon condition that they may
be defeated or resumed at the will of the legislature.
In Saterlee v. .atthewsonj also, in this court, it was said
that a statute which divests a right, even an existing right,
of property, may be valid, provided the statute do not operate upon and impair a contract, and that it is only when the
statute, by its own force, impairs or destroys the contract,
that it is void under the Constitution.
"It 'is an unsound proposition," the Supreme Court of
New York declared in The People v. Morris,ยง "that political
power conferred by the legislature can become a vested right,
as against the government, in any individual or body of
men."
In Trustees v. Rider,I the Supreme Court of Connecticut
held that a statute granting money to a private corporation
or individual, to be acquired in futuro, and through the
official action of public agents, may be repealed at any time
before the acquisition and application of the money, and the
grant defeated before it is fully executed. Such a grant is
not a perfect obligation capable of enforcement.
Gilman v. City of Sheboygan, 2 Black, 510.
f- 10 Howard, 533-5.
2 Peters, 413.
18 Wendell, 831.
18 Connecticut, 87.

Dec. 1866.]

VON HOFFIAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

545

Argument for the City.

In Br'adonv. Green,* a Tennessee case, the Supreme Court
of Tennessee decided that a statute giving a new remedy to
defeat usurious contracts is constitutional, even as to existing contracts and judgments upon them.
In the Covington Railroad v. Kenton,T the Cdurt of Appeals
of Kentucky say that provisions in a railroad charter, providing for county subscription to stock and the collection
of a tak to pay the same, are no contract between the State
and the railroad company, and may be repealed at any time
before they are complete by full execution. The legislature
may take away by statute what by statute is granted, unless
by execution of the powers granted, private rights, in some
definite thing or property, have become vested.
A legislative act, this court held in Railroad Co. v. NZesbit,t
cannot impair the obligation of a contract, unless at the time
of its passage, some one not subject to legislative control.,
"by contract with the State, has been vested with certain,
perfect, absolute rights of property," which rights are divested or impaired by such act.
It also held, in Beers v. Bingham,ยง that "the right to imprison (for debt) constitutes no part of the contract; and
discharge of the person of the party from imprisonment does
not impair the obligation of the contract, but leaves it in
full force against his property and effects;" and, in Mason v.
Hake,I where A. gave a prison-limits bond, and by an act
of the legislature was discharged from arrest-and imprisonment, that the act was valid.
The Supreme Court of California has gone as far as we
now ask this court to do. In 1855, the legislature of the
State passed a law for funding the debts of a county, changing the time and manner of payment, and prohibited payment of any debts not so funded. The court, on the matter
coming before it, held, f that as the county was a municipal
* 7 Humphrey, 130; and see Wilson v. Hardesby, 1 Maryland Chancery, 66.
t- 12 B. Munroe, 147, 148; and see People v. Livingston, 6 Wendell, 531.
t 10 Howard, 400, 401.
9 Peters, 359.
12 Wheaton, 370.
Hunsacker v. Borden, 5 California, 288.
VOL. IV.

35

546

VON iHOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply for the relator.

body, the legislature had full control of its revenues and
payment of its debts, and the law did not, therefore, impair
the creditor's contract in the sense of the Constitution.
In Oriental Bank v. _rieze,* the Supreme Court of Maine
says:
"When a person by existing laws becomes entitled to a judgment, or to have certain real or personal property applied to
the satisfaction of his debt, he is apt to regard the privilege as
a vested right, not considering that it has its foundations only
in the remedy, which may be changed, and the right thereby
destroyed."
It was accordingly held that the legislature may take away
rights given by statute, until those rights are perfect, and
vested by judgment recovered.
In the Sunbury -RailroadCo. v. Coopert the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania lay down principles which justify fully the
action of the court below in its refusal to grant a mandarms.
The legislature of Pennsylvania had there pledged the revenues of the State canals to the payment of certain State
bonds. Afterwards an act was passed for the sale of these
canals, and different appropriation of the proceeds. The
diversion of the pledge made by the legislature was held to
be without legal redress.
Numerous cases are in effect similar with the principle
above generally asserted by us.1
_Reply: The proposition stated on the other side, to wit,
that "legislative power and 'control over the public revenues
is a fundamental element of sovereignty which must ever
remain with the State," and "that no contract, binding or
controlling the legislature, as to the collection or appropriation under revenue laws, of future taxes, can, consistently
S185Maine, 109.
t 33 Pennsylvania State, 278, 281, 285.
j See Mayor v. "The State, 15 Maryland, 376; Trustees v. Tatman, 13 Illinois, 28; Stocking v. Hunt, 3 Denio, 274; Fisher v. Lackey, 6 Blackford,
373; Evans v. Montgomery, 4 Watts & Sergeant, 220; Springfield v. Commissioners, 5 Pickering, 50$.

Dec. 1866.]

VoN

HOFFMAN V.

CITY OF QuINCY.

547

Reply for the relator.

with the sovereignty of the State, exist," may be admitted
as a general proposition, subject to exception.* But we are
at a loss to apply it to the case under consideration. How
is the levy and collection of a special annual tax, under and
in pursuance of the powers in question, to be deemed an
exercise of sovereignty which must ever remain with the
State? A specific mode whereby the respondent is empowered to provide the necessary means of discharging debts
contracted by it as a private company is no such exercise.
The moneys thus to be raised are in no manner or way
connected with " the. public revenues." INor is the levy and
collection of this special tax, under the laws, legally speaking, an exercise of sovereign powers belonging to the respondent in its character as a municipal or political corporation. The object and purpose of the t6tx, as well as the
powers authorizing its levy and collection, are private, not
public. Therefore, the respondent, in respect to the powers
conferred by these laws, is to be regarded as a private corporation, standing on the same footing as would any individual
or body of persons upon whom like privileges had been conferred. Or, in the language of the court in Bailq v. The
Mayor, &c., of the City of NAew York,t a case where this whole
matter is fully and learnedly considered, "The argument
confounds the powers in question with those belonging to
the defendants in their character as a municipal or public
body, such as are granted exclusively for publi6 purposes to
counties, cities, towns, and villages, where the corporations"
have, if I may so speak, no private estate or interest in the
grant."
The proposition is based on, and is ab~nost in the identical
words of, a suggestion offered by the court in the New Tiamp-"
shire case of Brewster v. Hough,j to the effect that it is not
competent for a legislature, by enactment, to make a contract perpetually exempting from taxation any portion of the
* State of New Jersey v. 'Wilson, 7 Cranch, 166; State Bank of Ohio v
Knoop, 16 Howard, 369; Dodge v. 'Woolsey, 18 Id. 331.
t 3 Hill, 539.
$ 10 New Hampshire, 145.

548

VoN HOFFMAx v. CITY OF QUINoY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

property lying within the government; that the right to levy
a~nd collect taxes, being an element of sovereignty; it is so
far inalienable, that no legislature can make a contract by
which it shall be surrendered.
This, however, is not law. In The Slate of NAew Jersey v.
Wilson,* it is laid down by Chief Justice Marshall, as a settled rule, that a State may do so through its legislature, and
that the law is a contract within the meaning and protection
of the Constitution of the United States. If an act of the
legislature, perpetually exempting from taxation certain portions of the State, or property of its citizens, lying within
the government, is a contract, within the meaning and protection of the Constitution, it would seem to follow, as inevitable, that a law authorizing the citizens of a particular
municipal locality, or division of the State, to levy and collect a special annual tax on the property, real and personal,
lying within that locality, as a means or mode of paying indebtedness contracted by it under the authority and upon
the faith of such law, is also a contract, which cannot be repealed to the prejudice of third persons having pecuniary
rights or interests depending on the existence thereof, without violating the Constitution of the United States. Numerous cases are to this effect.t
The case, it will be observed, comes here upon the petition, answer, and demurrer.
Mr. Justice 8WAY_E delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating the case, proceeded thus:
The demurrer admits what is set forth in the answer. On
the other hand, the answer, according to the law of pleading, admits what is alleged in the petition and not denied.
It is then a part of the case before us, that when the bonds
were issued and negotiated there were statutes of Illinois in
" 7 Oraneh, 164.
T Atwater v. Woodbridge, 6 Connecticut, 223; Osborne v. Humphrey, 7
Id. 335; Parker v. Redfield, 10 Id. 495; Landon v. Litchfield, 11 Id. 251;
Armington v. Barnet, 15 Vermont, 751; Herrick v. Randolph, 13 Id. 525.

Dec. 1866.]

VoN

IoIFFMAN

v. CITY OF QUINCY.

549

Opinion of the court.

force which authorized the levying of a sufficient special tax
to pay the coupons in question as they became due. Such
statutes are so inconsistent with the provisions of the act of
1863, relied upon by the city, and cover the same ground,
in such a manner that the act of 1863 unquestionably repeals them, if that act be valid for the purposes it was intended to hccomplish.
The validity of the bonds and coupons is not denied. Nro
question is made as to the judgment. The, case turns upon
the validity of the statute restricting the power of taxation
left to the city within the narrow limits which it prescribes.
The answer says expressly that fifty ;ents on the hundred
dollars' 'worth of property, which is all the statute allows to
be levied to meet the debts and current expenses of the city,
will not be sufficient for those purposes. The expenses will,
of course, be first defrayed out of the fund. What the deficiency will be as to the debts, or whether anything applicable to them will remain, is not stated. So far, it appears
that nothing has been paid upon these liabilities. And it
was not claimed at the argument that the result under the
statute would be different in the future.
The question to be determined is whether the statute, in
this respect, is valid, or whether the legislature transcended
its power in enacting it.
The duty which the court is called upon to perform is
always one of great delicacy, and the Power which it brings
into activity is only to be exercised in cases entirely free
fr'om doubt.
The Constitution of the United States declares (Art. I, ยง
10), that "no State shall pass any bill of attainder, ex post
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts."
. The case of .Plletcer v. Peck,* was the first one in this
court in which this important provision came under consideration. It was held that it applied to all contracts, executed and executory, "whoever may be parties to them."
In that case the legislature of Georgia had repealed an act
* 6 Cranch, 87.

VON HOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUIN cY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

passed by a former legislature, bnder which the plaintiff in
error had acquired his title by mesne conveyances from the
State. The court pronounced the repealing act within the
inhib*tion-of the Constitution, and therefore void. Chief
Justice Mlarshall said: "The validity of this rescinding act
might well be doubte.d were G.eorgit a single sovereign
power; but Georgia cannot be viewed as a single, unconnected sovereign power, on whose legislature no other restrictions are imposed than may be found in its own constitution. She is a part of a large empire. She is a member
of the American Union, and that Union has a Constitution,
the supremacy of which all acknowledge, and which imposes
limits to the legislatures of the several States which none
claim a right to pass." This case was followed by those of
Abew Jersey v. Willson,* an d Terret v. Taylor.t The principles
which they maintain are now axiomatic in American jurisprudence, and are no longer open to controversy.
It is also settled that the laws which subsist at the time
and place of the making of a contract, and where it is to be
performed, enter into and form a part of it, as if they were
expressly referred to or incorporated in its terms. This
principle embraces alike those which affect its validity, construction, discharge, and enforcement. Illustrations of this
proposition are found, in the obligation of the debtor to pay
interest after the maturity of the debt, where the contract is
silent; in the liability of the drawer of a protested bill to
pay exchange and damages, and in the right of the drawer
and indorser to require proof of demand and notice. These
are as much incidents and conditions of the contract as if
they rested upon the basis of a distinct agreement.1
In Green v. Biddle, the subject of laws which affect the
remedy was elaborately discussed. The controversy grew
out of a compact between the States of Virginia and Kentucky. It was made in contemplation of the separation of
* 7 Cranch, 164.

t 9 Id. 43.
: Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheaton, 92; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Howard, 319;
MlcCracken v. Hayward, 2 Id. 612; People v. Bond, 10 California, 570;
Ogden v. Saunders, 12 -Wheaton, 231.

Dec. 1866.]

VoN H=rOFFMAN

V. CITY OF QuiNcY.

551

Opinion of the court.

the territory of the latter from the former, and its erection
into a State, and is contained in an act of the legislature. of
Virginia, passed in 1789, whereby it was provided "that all
private rights and interests within" the District of Kentucky
"derived from the laws of Virginia prior to such separation
shall remain valid and secure under the laws of the proposed
State, and shall be determined by the laws now existing in
this State." By two acts of the legislature of Kentucky,
passed respectively in 1797 and 1812, several new provisions
relating to the consequences of a recovery in the action of
ejeetment-all eminently beneficial to the defendant, and
onerous to the plaintiff-were adopted into the laws of that
State. So far as they affected the lands covered by the compact, this court declared them void. It was said: "It is no
answer that the acts of Kentucky now in question are regulations of the remedy, and not of the right to the lands. If
these acts so change the nature and extent of existing remedies as materially to impair the rights and interests of the
owner, they are just as much a violation of the compact as
if they orerturnedhis rights and interests."
In Jronson v. Ktnzie,* the subject was again fully considered. A mortgage was executed in Illinois containing a
power of sale. Subsequently, an act of the legislature was
passed which required mortgaged premises to be sold for
not less than two-thirds of their appraised value, and allowed
the mortgagor a year after the sale to redeem. It was held
that the statute, by thus changing the pre-existing remedies,
impaired the obligation of the contract, and was therefore
void.
In 31e Craeken v. Haywardt the same principle, upon facts
somewhat varied, was again sustained and applied. A statutory provision that personal property should not be sold under execution for less than two-thirds of its appraised value
was adjudged, so far as it affected prior contracts, to be void,
for the same reeson.
In Sturges v. Crowninshield, the question related to a law
" I Howard, 297.

t 2 ia.6o8.

$ 4 -Wheaton, 122.

552

'VoN HoFFMAN v. CITY OF QuINCY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

discharging the contract. It was held that a State insolvent
or bankrupt law was inoperative as to contracts which existed
prior to its passage.
In Ogden v. Saunders,* the question was as to the effect of
such a law upon a subsequent contract. It was adjudged to
be valid, and a discharge of the contract according to its
provisions was held to be conclusive.
A statute of frauds embracing a pre-existing parol contract not before required' to be in writing would affect its
validity. A statute declaring that the word ton should thereafter be held, in prior as well as subsequent contracts, to
mean half or double the weight before prescribed, would
affect its construction. A statute providing that a previous
contract of indebtment may be extinguished by a process of
bankruptcy would involve its discharge, and a statute forbidding the sale of any of the debtor's property, under a
judgment upou such a contract, would relate to the remedy.
It cannot be doubted, either upon principle or authority,
that each of such laws passed by a State would impair the
obligation of the contract, and the last-mentioned not less
than the first. Nothing can be more material to the obligation than the means of enforcement. Without the remedy
the contract may, indeed, in the sense of the law, be said
not to exist, and its obligation to fall within the class of
those moral and social duties which depend for their fulfilment wholly upon the will of the individual. The ideas of
validity and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts of
the obligation, which is guaranteed by the Constitution
against invasion. The obligation of a contract "is the law
which binds the parties to perform their agreement."t The
prohibition has no reference to the degree of impairment.
The largest and least are alike forbidden. In Green v. Biddle,t it was said: "The objection to a law on the ground of
its impairing the obligation of a contract can never depend
upon the extent of the change which the law effects in it.
* 12 Wheaton, 213.

$ 8 Id. 84.

t Sturges v. Crowniushild, 12 Id. 2-57.

Dec. 1866.] VoN HOFFMANT V. CITY o

QuiNcY.

553

Opinion of the court.

Any deviation from its terms by postponing or accelerating
the period of performance which it prescribes, imposing
conditions not expressed in the contract, or dispensing with
those which are, however minute or apparently immaterial
in their effect upon the contract of the parties, impairs its
obligation. Upon this principle it is that if a creditor agree
with his debtor to postpone the day of payment, or in any
other way to change the terms of the contract, without the
consent of the surety, the latter is discharged, although the
I
change was for his advantage."
"One of the tests that a contract has been impaired is
that its value has, by legislation, been diminished. It is
not, by the Constitution, to be impaired at all. This is not
a question of degree or cause, but of encroaching, in any
respect, on its obligation-dispensing with any part of its
force."-"
This has reference tQ legislation which affects the contract
directly, and not incidentally or only by consequence.
The right to imprison for debt is not a part of the contract. It is regarded as penal rather than remedial. The
States may abolish it whenever they think proper.t They
may also exempt from sale, under execution, the necessary
implements of agriculture, the tools of a mechanic, and articles of necessity in household furniture. It is said: "Regulations of this description have always been considered in
every civilized community as properly belonging to the remedy, to be exercised by every sovereignty according to its
own views of policy and humanity."
It is competent for the States to change the form of the
remedy, or to modify it otherwise, as they may see fit, provided no subsfantial right secured by the contract is thereby
impaired. No attempt has been made to fix definitely the
line between alterations of the remedy, which are to be
deemed legitimate, and those which, under the form of modi-Plan "'-' Bank v. Sharp et al., 6 II0ward, 327.
t Becr o. Haughton, 9 Peters, 359; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Weaton, 230;
Masonv. Halle, 12 Id. 373; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Id. 200.

554

VON HOFFMAN V.

CITY OF QUINCY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ifying the remedy, impair substantial rights.

Every case

must be determined upon its own circumstances. *Whenever the result-last mentioned is produced the act is within
the prohibition of the Constitution, and to that extent void.*
If these doctrines were res inlegroz the consistency and
soundness of the reasoning which maintains a distinction
between the contract and the remedy-or, to speak more
accurately, between the remedy and the other parts of the
contract-might perhaps well be doubted.t But they rest
in this court upon a foundation of authority too firm to be
shaken; and they are supported by such an array of judicial
names that it is hard for the mind not to feel constrained to
believe they are correct. The doctrine upon the subject established by the latest adjudications of this court render the
distinction one rather of form than substance.
When the bonds in question were issued there were laws
in force which authorized and required the collection of
taxes sufficient in amount to meet the interest, as it accrued
from time to time, upon the entire debt. But for the act of
the 14th of February, 1863, there would be no difficulty in
enforcing them. The amount permitted to be collected by
that act will be insufficient; and it is not certain that anything will be yielded applicable to that object. To the extent of the deficiency the obligation of the contract will be
impaired, and if there be nothing applicable, it may be regarded as annulled. A right without a remedy is ai if it
were not. For every beneficial purpose it may be said not
to exist.
It is well settled that a State may disable itself by contract
from exercising its taxing power in particular cases.1 It is
equally clear that where a State has authorized a municipal
* Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Howard, 311; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 Id. 608.

t 1 Kent's Commentaries, 456; Sedgwick on Stat. and Cons. Law, 662;
Mr. Justice Washington's dissenting opinion in Mason v. Haile, 12 Wheaton, 379.
N ew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 166; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 Howard,
331; Piqua Branch v. Knoop, 16 Id. 831.

Dec. 1866.]*

THE

EINE

v. TREVOR.

Syllabus.

corporation to contract and to exercise the power of local
taxation to the extent necessary to meet its engagements,
the power thus given cannot be withdrawn until the contract
is satisfied. The State and the corporation, in such cases,
are equally bound. The power given becomes a trust which
the donor cannot annul, and which the donee is bound to
execute; and neither the State nor the corporation can any
more impair the obligation of the contract in this way. than
in any other.*
The laws requiring taxes to the requisite amount to be
collected, in force when the bonds were issued, are still in
force for all the purposes of this case. The act of 1863 is,
so far as it affects these bonds, a nullity. It is the duty of
the city to impose and collect the taxes in all respects as if
that act had not been passed. A different result would leave
nothing of the contract, but an abstract right-of no practical value-and render*the protection of the Constitution a
shadow and a delusion.
The Circuit Court erred in overruling the application for
a ma)damus. The judgment of that court is REVERSED, and
the cause will be remanded, with instructions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE HEin v.

TREvoR.

1. The doctrine of the case of The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts, as granted by the Constitution,
as not limited to tide-water, but extends wherever vessels float and navigation successfully aids commerce, approved and affirmed.
2. The grant of admiralty powers to the District Courts of the United States,
by the ninth section of the act of September 24th, 1789, is coextensive
with this grant in the Constitution, as to the character of the waterQ
over which it extends.
" People v. Bell, 10 California, 570; Dominic v. Sayre, 3 Sandford, 555.

