Dec. 1866.]

BENTLEY V.

COYNE.

Opinion of the court.

The case stated by the court brings this case within the
principles established by the court in that.
The matter of fact decided by the court was that the defendant had possessed the property for the full period required by the .laws of the State under all the conditions
which those laws demand: a possession of thirty years under claim; a possession of ten years under just titles and in
good faith. The map will show that the division-line between the De Lord and Saulet suburbs which had been established in 1763, and acqtiiesced in by the parties, passed
through the upper corner of the lands of the Orleans CottoAi
Press, and did not touch the land in dispute, which is an
accession in front of the said lots. The facts "as found sustain, therefore, the defendant's plea, and the judgment of
the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

BENTLEY V. COYNE.
1. *Wherea vessel has the wind free, or is sailing before or with the wind, she
must keep out of the way of the vessel which is closehauled by the wind
or sailing by or *againstit. Those closehauled on the wind, or sailing
on the starboard tack, must keep their course.
2. But these established rules of navigation do not apply after a vessel advancing in violation of them is so near another vessel that by such other
vessel's adhering to them a collision would be inevitable. A departure
from them, under such circumstances, by a vessel otherwise not in
fault, will not impair her right to recover for injuries occasioned by the
collision.

were appeals from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in a libel and
cross-libel for collisions of vessels on Lake Michigan; the
questions involved being of fact chiefly, and the cases being
submitted.
THESE

31r. IHibbard,for the appellants; Mr. Newbunj, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.

510

BENTLEY V. CoYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Subject-matter of the controversy in this case was a collision between the schooner White Cloud and the bark Newsboy, which occurred on the twelfth day of November, 1862,
off Twin River Point, or a little below, on the west shore of
Lake Michigan. Owner of the White Cloud filed his libel
against the bark Newsboy on the twenty-fifth day of May,
1863, and the owners of the bark filed their cross-libel
against the schooner on the twenty-ninth day of September
in the same year. Both cases were heard together in the
District Court, and the decision" was that the bark was in
fault. Damages were accordingly awarded to the libellant
in the case of the schooner in the sum of five thousand six
hundred and seventy-three dollars and sixty-six cents, and
the cross-libel was dismissed with costs. Circuit Court on
appeal affirmed the respective decrees and the owners of the
bark, as respondents in one case and as libellants in the
other, appealed to this court.
1. Voyage of the schooner was from Buffalo to Chicago,
and that of the bark was from Milwaukie to Buffalo. Capacity of the former was three hundred and eighteen tons,
and that of the latter was five hundred and fifty-seven tons,
and both were good vessels and had a full complement of
officers and seamen. Testimony shows that both vessels
were under full headway when the collision occurred, and
that it resulted in great damage to the schooner. Among
other injuries it broke the rail, stanchions, and bulwarks of
the schooner from the fore-rigging to the main-rigging, and
cut her outside planks down below the water-line as far as
the bilge, and broke the clamps and ceiling down to the
bilge-kelson. Damage was also done to the plank-sheer and
deck-frame, and the capstan and some of the deck-plank
were broken, the forestay-sail split and the butts of the
deck-plank were started the whole length of the vessel.
Principal damage was on the starboard side of the
schooner, showing conclusively that the blow was between
the main and fore-rigging, on that side. She was in ballast, but the bark had a full cargo of wheat.. Collision occurred about seven o'clock in the evening, but the proofs

Dec. 1866.]

BENTLEY V. COYNE.
Opinion of the court.

show that it was not very dark, and the witnesses concur
that there was no haze on the water and that the lights of
vessels could be seen for several miles. Although it was
cloudy, still the weather was pleasant and there was a good
breeze. Speed of schooner was six or seven miles an hour,
and that of the bark was nine miles. Weight of the evidence shows that the wind, though slightly baffling, varying
occasionally perhaps a degree to the west, was southwestby-west, and both vessels were under a full, or nearly full,
press of canvas. Course of the schooner was south-halfeast, and that of the bark was north-northeast, but she was
not kept steady.
Considerable conflict exists in the testimony as to the
course of the wind and of the schooner, but the better
opinion, in view of the whole case, is, that the testimony of
the master is correct. He came on deck twenty minutes
before the collision, and he testified that the wind was about
southwest-by-west, a little baffling, varying sometimes a
point to the westward, and that the vessel was heading by
the compass south-half-east, and we adopt those statements
as satisfactorily sustained by the weight of the evidence.
Both vessels showed lights, and the proofs are full to the
point that each saw the light of the other two or three miles
before they came together. Obviously, therefore, it is a case
of fault and not of inevitable accident-as the water was
smooth and the vessels were sailing in a broad unobstructed
thoroughfare. Undisputed fact also is that the schooner was
sailing on the starboard tack, closehauled on the wind, and
that the bark was on the larboard tack and had the wind
free. Rule of navigation is, that where a vessel has the wind
free, or is sailing before or with the wind, she must keep
out of the way of the vessel which is closehauled by the
wind or sailing by or against it, and the vessel on the starboard tack has a right to keep her course and the one on
the larboard tack must give way or be answerable for the
consequences.*
* St. John v. Paine, 10 Howard, 581; The Gazelle, 2 W. Robinson, 517;

Woodrop Sims, 2 Dodson, 85; Ann Caroline, 2 Wallace, 544.

512

BENTLEY V. COYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Strong effort is made by the respondents to take the case
out of the operation of that rule by attempting to show that
the schooner changed her course. Persons engaged in navigating vessels upon navigable waters are bound to observe
the nautical rules recognized by law in the management of
their vessels on approaching a point where there is danger
of collision. Undoubtedly the same law which requires vessels having the wind free, or sailing on the larboard tack, to
keep out of the way or give way, as the case may be, also
imposes the correlative duty upon those closehauled on the
wind, or sailing on the starboard tack, to keep their course,
in order that the former may know the position of the object to be avoided, and not be baffled or led into error in
their endeavors to comply with the requirement.*
Appellants show, beyond doubt, that the schooner changed
her course, but they do not show that she changed it at a
time or in any sense when or in which the law regards it as
a fault. The rules of navigation mentioned do not apply to
a vessel required to keep her course after the approach of
the advancing vessel is so near that the collision is inevitable. An error committed by those in charge of a vessel
under such circumstances, if the vessel is otherwise without
fault, will not impair her right to recover for the injuries
occasioned .by the collision, for the reason that those who
put the vessel in that peril are chargeable with the error,
and must answer for the consequences which it occasions.
Evidence shows satisfactorily that the schooner kept her
course until the peril was impending and the collision inevitable,
and that the order, hard-a-starboard, was given by the master at the moment it occurred, "to ease off the blow and
make it glancing." Such a change of course, at that moment, the District Court held was demanded as a means of
self-preservation and was not a fault, and we entirely concur
in that conclusion.
Objection is also taken to the decision of the court in confirming the report of the commissioner as to the amount of
* Steamship Co. v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 384.

Dec. 1866.]

PURCELL V. MINER.
Statement of the case.

the damages, but the objection is without merit and is hereby
overruled. Decision of the District Court in the case of the
cross-libel was also correct.
Decree of the Circuit Court
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS IN BOTH CASES.

PURCELL V. MINER.
A contract for the exchange of lands is as much within the statute of
frauds as a contract for their sale, and a party seeking to enforce a specific execution of a parol contract for that purpose, must bring himself
within the same conditions, before he can invoke the aid of a court of
equity.
That is to say, he must make full, satisfactory, and indubitable proofFirst. Of the contract, and of its terms; a proof which must show a contract leaving no jus deliberandi,or locus ponitentice; and which cannot
be made out by mere hearsay, or by evidence of the declarations of a
party to mere strangers to the transaction, in chance conversation.
Second. That the consideration has been paid or tendered. And even the
payment of the price in part or in whole, will not, of itself, be sufficient
for the interference of a court of equity, if the party have a sufficient
remedy at law to recover back the money.
Tird. That there has been such a part-performance of the contract that
its rescission would be a fraud on the other party, and could not be fully
compensated by recovery of damages in a court of law.
Fourth. That delivery of possession has been made in pursuance of the
contract, and acquiesced in by the other party; a requisition which is
not satisfied by proof of a scrambling and litigious possession.

filed a bill against Coleman, Miner and wife, and
others, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
where the statute of frauds-enacting that alt estates in
lands made by parol only and not put in writing and signed
by the parties making the same shall have the force and
effect of estates at will only-is in force. The bill set forth
that Coleman having a house in Washington, and he, Purcell, a farm in Virginia, "a trade" had been made between
them; and the-possession and key of the house delivered to
him by Coleman, and full payment admitted by Coleman's
PURCELL

VOL. IV.

33

