Dec. 1866.]

GILMAN V. LOCKWOOD.
Syllabus.

under the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854; but were chargeable with a duty
of 20 per cent. ad valorem, under the twenty-fourth section of the act
of Mlarch 2d, 1861.

This suit was brought to recover the duties on "split timbers"
imported from Canada into the United States, and claimed to
be exempt under the Reciprocity Treaty, as in the case just disposed of. The treaty exempts from duty "timber and lumber
of all kinds, round, hewed, and sawed, unmanufactured,in whole
or in part."
The articles consisted of six hundred and sixteen cords of split
white-ash timber, chiefly designed to.be used in the manufacture
of long shovel handles.
The main question was whether the said timber was liable to
duty, or whether it was made free of duty by the Reciprocity
Treaty.
Same counsel as in the United States v. Hathaway,just preceding.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The case falls within the construction of the treaty in the
case of the United States v. Hathaway.
The article, we think, is chargeable with a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorern, under the twenty-fourth section of the
act of March 2d, 1861, which imposes this duty "on all articles
manufactured, in whole or in part," not otherwise provided for.
The court answer the question, in the certificate of division

of opinion,

N THE AFIRMATIVE.

GILMAN v. LOCKWOOD.
Certificates of discharge granted under insolvent laws passed by a State
cannot be pleaded in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another
State in the courts of the United States, or of any other State than that
where the discharge was obtained, unless it appear that the plaintiff
proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, or in some
manner became a party to the proceedings. Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wallace, 223, and Baldwin v. Bank of Newbury, Id. 234, affirmed.

EuiuwL to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin. The case was a submitted one.

GILMAN V. LoCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Carpenter, by brief, for the plaintiff in error. LYo opposite counsel.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Amended plea of the defendant admitted, as the declaration alleged, that the plaintiff, when the note was made and
delivered, was a citizen of the State of New York; and that
the defendant was a citizen of the State of Wisconsin, where
the note is dated and was executed. Action was assumpsit
to recover the amount of a certain promissory note, described in the notice of claim annexed to the declaration.
Defendant pleaded his discharge in insolvency from all his
debts prior to the commencement of the action under the
insolvent laws of the State where he resides, and where the
contract was executed between the parties. Plaintiff demurred specially to the plea, and the defendant joined in
demurrer.
Causes of demurrer shown were:
First. That the plea tendered an immaterial issue.
Second. That the insolvent court exceeded its jurisdiction
in attempting to determine the rights of the plaintiff under
this contract, as he was a citizen of another State, and never
became a party to the proceedings in insolvency.
Third. That the discharge in insolvency set up in defendant's plea is nugatory, because the insolvent law of the State
as to the plaintiff is unconstitutional and void.
Circuit Court overruled the demurrer and rendered judgment for the defendant; whereupon the plaintiff sued out
this writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
State legislatures may pass insolvent laws, provided there
be no act of Congress establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy conflicting with their provisions, and provided that
the law itself be so framed that it does not impair the
obligation of contracts. Certificates of discharge, however,
granted under such a law, .cannot be pleaded in bar of an
action brought by a citizen of another State in the courts
of the United States, or of any other State than that where

Dec. 1866.]

T.E MosEs TAYLOR.
Syllabus.

the discharge was obtained, unless it appear that the plaintiff proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, or in some manner became a party to the proceedings. Insolvent laws of one State cannot discharge the
contracts of citizens of other States; because such laws have
no extra territorial operation, and consequently the tribunal
sitting under them, unless in cases where a citizen of such
other State voluntarily becomes a party to the proceedings,
has no jurisdiction of the case.*
Unquestionably, the decision in those cases controls the
present case, and renders further remarks upon the subject
unnecessary. Demurrer should have been sustained.
JUDGMENT REVESED with costs, and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

TiE MosEs

TAYLoR.

1. A contract for the transportation of passengers by a steanship on the
ocean is a maritime contract, and there is no distinction in principle
between it and a contract for the like transportation of merchandise.
The same liability attaches upon its execution both to the owner and
the steamship.
2. The distinguishing and characteristic feature of a suit in admiralty, is
that the vessel or thing proceeded against itself is seized and impleaded
as the defendant, and is judged and sentenced accordingly. By the
common law process, property is reached only through a personal defendant, and then only to the extent of his title.
3. A statute of California, which authorizes actions in rem against vessels
for causes of action cognizable in the admiralty, to that extent attempts
to invest her courts with admiralty jurisdiction.
4. The judicial power of the United States is in some cases unavoidably exclusive of all State authority, and in all others it may be made so at the
election of Congress.
5. The provision of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, which vests in
the District Courts of the United States exclusive cognizance of civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is constitutional.
6. The clause of the ninth section, savihg to suitors "the right of a common
* Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wallace, 223; Baldwin v. Bank of Newbury, Id. 234.

