Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ROoK.

177

Statement of the case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V, ROCK.
1. In a case brought here from a State court, under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, the record must show that some one of the matters
mentioned in that section was necessarily decided by the court, notwithstanding there may be a certificate from the presiding judge, that such
matters were drawn in question.
2. If it appears from the record that the State court might have decided the
case on some other ground, this court has no jurisdiction.
3. This court cannot review the decision of a State court upon the general
ground, that that court has declared a contract void, which this court
may think to be valid.
4. It must be the Constitution or some statute of the State which impairs
the obligation of the contract, or which is otherwise in conflict with the
Constitution or laws of the United States; and the decision of the State
court must sustain the law of the State in the matter in which this conflict is supposed to exist, or the case for this court does not arise.

TnIs was a motion by Mr. Ternpln to dismiss a writ'of
error to the Supreme Court of Iowa, issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act, which gives authority
to the Supreme Court of the United States to review final
judgments in the highest court of a State "where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision is in, favor of such validity; or where is drawn in
question the construction of any clause of the Constitution,
&c., of the United States, and the decision is against the title,
right, &c., specially set up or claimed under such clause."
The case was thus:
Rock, on behalf of himself and the other resident ta4payers of Iowa County, filed his bill in the proper State
court against the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, plaintiff in error, and Wallace, county judge of the
said county. He prayed that certain bonds, purporting to
be the bonds of the County of Iowa, which he alleged to be
then in the possession of the plaintiff in error, should be
declared void, and that plaintiff should be enjoined from
negotiating them; and that the county judge should be enVOL. Tv.

12

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ROCK.

Esup. Ct.

Ar'gument against the motion.

joined from levying or collecting any tax to pay said bonds
or the interest on them.
The bill of complainant asked for relief on two grounds:
1. That the county judge disregarded the requirements
of a certain statute set forth in the bill, in the submission to
the vote of the people of the question of issuing the bonds.
2. That the county judge and the Railroad Company, to
whom they were first issued, were guilty of fraud in the
issue of the bonds.
The court decreed as prayed by Rock, and the Railroad
Company appealed to the Supreme Court of Iowa, which
affirmed that decree.
More than two years after this affirmance, the chief justice
of that court certified that, upon the hearing in that case,
there was drawn in question:
1. The validity of the Constitution of the State of Iowa
as being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
2. That clause of the Constitution of the United States
which provides that no State shall pass any law impairing
the obligation .of contracts.
3. That clause of the Constitution of the United States
which provides that said Constitution shall be the supreme
law of the land.
And it was further certified, that the decision was against
the right claimed under the Constitution of the United States
and the several clauses thereof.
The ground of the motion made to dismiss was, that it
nowhere appeared by the record that the question of the repugnancy of the laws and Constitution of Iowa to the Constitution and laws of the United States was passed upon; and
tl~at the certificate of the judge would not of itself conclude
the court on that matter.
Messrs. Grant and Cook against the motion:
In Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens Go.,* the chief
justice of the State court attached to the record his certifi* 16 Peters, 281.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. ROCK.
Argument against the motion.

cate that the decision drew into question the validity of that
clause in the Constitution of the United States, which provides that no State can pass a law impairing the obligation
of contracts, and that the decision was against the clause.
The certificate in the case at bar is drawn up and signed as
was that in the authority cited; and this will be seen by reference to that authority.
In that case the court says:
"We presume the certificate of the presiding judge was made
by authority of the court, and as the bill and answer show that
such a point might have arisen, and this certificate on the
record.states that it did arise and was decided, the case comes
within the fourth clause, and this court must take jurisdiction."
But independently of the certificate we have an authoritative report of the case now brought here from the Supreme
Court of Iowa, in the printed reports of that court's decisions. Volume 14th of the series gives us the very case
now here on error. It removes all difficulty. The court
say that the bill was filed to cancel certain bonds for the
want of power in the county judge to issue the same, and
because of certain alleged irregularities attending their
issue, and they add: "Following Stokes v. Scott Co.,* and B.
$i311..1?..B. Co. v. Wafiello,t we affirm the judgmentbelow."
Now in both the cases cited and followed, the Supreme
Court of Iowa held the bonds unconstitutional while yet
unissued, and in the present case it applied this principle of
unconstitutionality to bonds issued and in the hands of bona
fide holders.
The case then fairly presented the constitutional -question,
and the point which was decided by the Supreme Court of
Iowa was, that these bonds (issued and delivered in November, 1858, to bonafide holders, and at a time when, as is well
known, the Supreme Court of the State held them to be
constitutional and valid), were unconstitutional and invalid,
null and void. The Supreme Court of Iowa, then, have
*10 Iowa, 166.

f" 14 Iowa, 593, 594.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

RocK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the rourt.

made a decision in this case which impairs the obligation of
contracts. The judicial interpretation of a law is part of
the law as much as if written in it.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
After a very careful examination of the record of the case,
we are unable to discover that either the validity of the Constitution of the State of Iowa, or the clauses of the Constitution of the United States mentioned in the certificate, are
involved in that record, or were decided by the court. It
is probable that counsel, in the argument of the case in the
Supreme Court of Iowa, insisted that these matters were
involved, and that the chief justice felt bound to certify,
when requested, that they were drawn in question. But if
the record does not show that they were necessarily drawn
in question, this court cannot take jurisdiction to reverse the
decision of the highest court of a State, upon the ground
that counsel brought them in question in argument.
In Lawter v. Walker,* a case was brought here on a certificate from the State court. It was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The court said: "The twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act requires something more definite than such a
certificate to give to this court jurisdiction. The conflict of
the State law'with the Constitution of the United States, and
a decision by a State court in favor of its validity, must
appear on the face of the record before it can be re-examined
in this court. It must appear in the pleadings of the suit,
or from the evidence in the course of the trial, in the instructions asked for, or from exceptions taken to the ruling of
the court, It must be that such a question was necessarily
involved in the decision, and that the State court would not
have given judgment without deciding it." To the same
effect is the case of Mills v. Brown.t
The bill of complainant claims relief on two grounds:
1. That the county judge disregarded the requirements of
the statute, in the submission to the vote of the people of
the question of issuing the bonds.
* 14 Howard, 149.

f 16 :Peters, 525.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. R CK.
Opinion of the court.

2. That the county judge and the Railroad Company, to
whom they were first issued, were guilty of fraud in the
issue of the bonds.
The court may have held the bonds void on the latter
ground, and may have based its decree on that allegation.
If so, there can be no pretence that such a ground involves
any question of the Constitution 6f the United States or of
the State of Iowa.
In the argument of counsel before us, no attempt is made
to show that any provision of the Constitution of the State
of Iowa conflicts in any way with the Constitution of the
United States. The whole case, in the language of the brief,
is put upon the ground that the "Supreme Court of*Iowa
has made a decision in this case which impairs the obligation
of contracts;" and the argument goes upon the fundamental
error that this court can, as an appellate tribunal, reverse
the decision of a State court, because that court may hold a
contract to be void which this court might hold to be valid.
If this were the law, every case of a contract held by the
State court not to be binding, for any cause whatever, can
be brought to this court for review, and we should thus become the court of final resort in all cases of contract, where
the decisions of State courts were against the validity of the
contracts set up in those courts.
This, obviously, was not the purpose of the Judiciary Act.
It must be the Constitution, or some law of the State, which
impairs the obligation of the contract, or which is otherwise
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States; and
the decision of the State court must sustain the law or Constitution of the State in the matter in which the conflict is
supposed to exist, or the case for this court does not arise.
No such thing appears in the case before us, which is the
case of a citizen of Iowa, suing a corporation of Iowa, in
the Iowa courts, their rights being determined either upon
a construction of local law in no way in conflict with the
Federal Constitution, or else upon a simple question of fraud.
The writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

