UNITED STATES V. QUIMBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clause. The treaty admits free of duty, "timber and lumber
of all kinds," with certain specified limitations, "round,
hewed, and sawed;" which limitations, as respects this
branch of the clause, are determined either by the form, or
by the work bestowed on the article,--the timber or lumber
must be round, hewed, or sawed; if neither, then the article is not brought within the description, and if otherwise
brought within it, there is still a further limitation,-" unmanufactured, in whole or in part." The article may be
round, hewn, or sawed, but if it has undergone the process
of manufacture, even in part, it is taken out of the free list.
In the present case the article is prepared by splitting for
the hand of the cooper, in the manufacture of the pipe or
hogshead, a process which has the effect to relieve him from
much of the labor that would otherwise be required in adapting it to the use intended. It has been already reduced to
the proper form and size-a work which, in the first stages
of the manufacture of the hogshead, must be done, and by
which a considerable advance is made in fitting and finish-

ing it for the market.
As this treaty has been annulled, the question is no longer
of any general importance; and as we concur in the interpretation given to it by the Secretary of the Treasury, it is
unnecessary to extend this opinion.
The court answer the question
I±N THE AFFIRMATrVE.

INoTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was disposed
of another, coming, like it, from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Mlichigan, on a
division of opinion of the judges. It was thusUNITED STATES V. QuIMBY.
Split white-ash timber, chiefly designed to be used in the manufacture of
long shovel handles, the growth and product of the Province of Canada,
and imported from there into the United States, were not free from duty

Dec. 1866.]

GILMAN V. LOCKWOOD.
Syllabus.

under the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854; but were chargeable with a duty
of 20 per cent. ad valorem, under the twenty-fourth section of the act
of Mlarch 2d, 1861.

This suit was brought to recover the duties on "split timbers"
imported from Canada into the United States, and claimed to
be exempt under the Reciprocity Treaty, as in the case just disposed of. The treaty exempts from duty "timber and lumber
of all kinds, round, hewed, and sawed, unmanufactured,in whole
or in part."
The articles consisted of six hundred and sixteen cords of split
white-ash timber, chiefly designed to.be used in the manufacture
of long shovel handles.
The main question was whether the said timber was liable to
duty, or whether it was made free of duty by the Reciprocity
Treaty.
Same counsel as in the United States v. Hathaway,just preceding.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The case falls within the construction of the treaty in the
case of the United States v. Hathaway.
The article, we think, is chargeable with a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorern, under the twenty-fourth section of the
act of March 2d, 1861, which imposes this duty "on all articles
manufactured, in whole or in part," not otherwise provided for.
The court answer the question, in the certificate of division

of opinion,

N THE AFIRMATIVE.

GILMAN v. LOCKWOOD.
Certificates of discharge granted under insolvent laws passed by a State
cannot be pleaded in bar of an action brought by a citizen of another
State in the courts of the United States, or of any other State than that
where the discharge was obtained, unless it appear that the plaintiff
proved his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, or in some
manner became a party to the proceedings. Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wallace, 223, and Baldwin v. Bank of Newbury, Id. 234, affirmed.

EuiuwL to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin. The case was a submitted one.

